
    ----CITATION----
        Chesebro', Caroline, (1825-1873). Victoria, or, The World Overcome .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6044
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               VICTORIA; OR, THE WORLD OVERCOME. 
             
            BY CAROLINE CHESEBRO', AUTHOR OF "PHILLY AND KIT," "GETTING ALONG," "THE BEAUTIFUL GATE," ETC. 
             
               
                  "ARE YE ABLE TO DRINK THIS CUP?"
                
             
            
               New York: 
               DERBY AND JACKSON, PUBLISHERS,  
                     No. 119 NASSAU STREET. 
                  
                
               CINCINNATI:- 
               H. W. DERBY & CO.
             
            1856. 
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1856, BY DERBY AND JACKSON, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. 
            
               Printed by BILLIN & BROTHER, 20 North William St., New York.
             
          
          
             
            THIS IS THE VICTORY That overcometh the World, EVEN OUR FAITH. 
          
       
      
         
            Victoria, or, The world overcome 
             
             
            VICTORIA; 
            OR, The World Overcome. 
             
               I. AT SEA-TWO HUNDRED YEARS AGO. 
               WE are at sea. It is nearly two hundred years ago. The summer morning grows in grace-a tranquil heart is watching it. 
               Dawn ascending to the zenith and descending to the West, compasses the firmament, and holds the ocean in its hand. No hindrance, to all of which its purity is significant, lies in the peaceful heart. As quietly as dawn acquires possession of the world, great thoughts have come into the occupancy of her nature. Accordingly there is no hindrance. 
               The waters only had no rest. In the vast sweep of sky there was not a solitary cloud. Disquiet below, but above tranquillity. The wakeful, watching heart saw, felt, and understood the contrast. She had not for the first time to divine its meaning. She saw, moreover, how the light throbbed through the mighty dome, and how the stars did die, and how the soul of morning quickened in its ecstatic apprehension of the glory that should be revealed. 
               Sky, and sea, and intervening ship. It is not a complicated picture, but common as the day. Its immortality depends not on portrayal. The dust of years shall not deface it to the vision of two souls who beheld the scene in all its radiant glory. 
               The lady of the ship, distinguished as such above all others, though not by title-Margaret Gladstone was her name-had come upon the deck, according to her custom, to watch the sunrise. There was nothing out of place in her occupancy of that hour. It was well that she should stand with her fair face toward the East, a watcher till the day should break; for there was a heavenly composure in the noble countenance, and a strength in her repose, that uttered for itself as sure a prophecy of meridian hours as morning gave of noon. 
               What shall I do for her? Will description render Margaret? If her voice might be transcribed, or the light of her blue eyes reflected, something would be achieved. But words fail here, as numbers prove their incapacity when the value of the Breath of Life, or the actual measurement and volume of Niagara, is to be ascertained. 
               At least no shadowy form shall come from out the past to take the name of Margaret Gladstone in any reader's thought. To present her in anything deprived of such perfections as are hers for evermore, as in that hour, were to commit a wrong for which the offender should deserve to go with head bowed like a bulrush through all her mortal days. 
               She stands upon the deck, a human presence-a lofty and commanding figure-though the loftiness is without pride, the command beautiful, without pretence. It is a presence before which the heart that yields, feels that in doing so, it offers honorable tribute. She may be aware of all her power, but it is not such knowledge as commonly attends authority. 
               A royal grace is in her movements. She is personally grand. Even her attitude in silence tells that she is serene, composed, strong, happy, good-courteous, firm, courageous, self-denying. Tells even more: a religious mind would know instinctively that "the tranquil God, who tranquilizes all things," as St. Bernard says, has tranquilized her. 
               Every quality enumerated has been put to the test upon this long and tedious voyage. In calm weather and rough, amid all manner of discomfort, she has been tried and proved-the ship's crew hold her to be the Queen and Court among the passengers. If the captain, under whose care she placed herself in undertaking the voyage-for she is unattended-if he, or any of his honest tars, should ever build a vessel, its name will be THE MARGARET. 
               To the serenity and composure of her demeanor-not all a work of nature, as has been intimated-to this was added a genuine, hearty, human interest in all things passing round her. This was the chief of her attractions in the eyes and to the hearts of those amongst whom she was thrown. She felt responsible for the attraction, and in this respect, as well as others, was a partaker of the Divine nature. She would, in the strict justice of her character, have been able to evade the obligations incurred by the attraction, no sooner than He who never said, "seek ye my face in vain." 
               The necessities of a large humanity were upon Margaret Gladstone; and with a willing heart she bore her obligation. The necessities were upon her because she could behold and feel them. So earth beholds the sun, and attests herself and her beholding, by "the palm tree and the cedar tree," the oak, and grass, and flowers. 
               I have seen a portrait that resembles her. It is a head, the like of which is rarely seen upon a woman's shoulders. It is a poet's picture of a poet. He may have idealized the beauty that was before him while he worked, and critics would perhaps judge the result more perfect for that reason. But he could not, after all, have transcended nature: though a dull eye might find it hard to trace the likeness, the hearts that love and reverence her would find her real through any great painter's ideal. 
               Margaret Gladstone had those same large, thoughtful, tender eyes, whose look on life must needs be large and grand-the vision shortened by no human infirmity-fit for dream, and prophecy, and love-fit to win, control, soothe, and direct, according as she was ordained of God. But for those eyes you might have found a conflict in the face-the lips betrayed a joyous love of life, and capacity for drinking of its richest draught, while the forehead, sweeping upward white and broad, looked the fit throne of angel thoughts, pure, resolute, and lofty, such as could sit in judgment on the worldly delights that might have captivated her, if the mouth spoke true. But the eyes dispensed a decree that balanced the great nature, and proved it fit for earth or heaven. Fit for one because fit for the other. 
               Among the passengers on board this vessel is one beside Miss Gladstone, and but one who deserves, or rather for the conduct of this tale, demands, a presentation. 
               Miss Gladstone, though under the impression that she is a private individual travelling an obscure path, is in reality a leader still. Still! She has been a leader, then? A leader! why, that may not be the word, but many and many a time she has had a thousand and ten thousand souls under her absolute control. And here she is alone-a pilgrim seeking an unknown shore. Be not swift, however, to moralize upon the fickleness of crowds, and the folly of trusting princes: there may be logic in the argument, but it does not apply here. This is a tale of triumph, not defeat-of victory, not surrender. 
               Young Archibald Kensett, but for her, would never have come upon this voyage-though until he stood upon the deck of the vessel, six days after it had put out to sea, he had never at any time exchanged a word with her. He learned by accident that Margaret Gladstone was sailing for New England-by accident, for few, even among those who called themselves her friends, were aware of the disposal of herself she was about to make. 
               A foolish impulse, as it seemed, took him to the sea side, to witness the embarking, he said. But it is to be observed that he had already abandoned his plan of continental travel, and was quite prepared-should the rumor he had heard prove true-quite prepared to make a north-westerly instead of a south-easterly pilgrimage of observation. But he did not allow this even to himself, and was accordingly exceedingly surprised when he found that his name had actually gone down upon the list of passengers-that he was actually sailing the Atlantic ocean. For when he came to think, really to think of what he had done-and he thought of little besides during those first six days-he was quite as foolish in his own eyes, as he can be in the eyes of the oldest unnatural that never acted on an impulse. 
               One would be in no great danger of confounding him with those around him, whose consciences had led them out to exile. He was manifestly a young gentleman who could find all the freedom he desired anywhere. His life had arrayed itself in hostility to nothing but asceticism and austerity. His heart was light and happy. And his incompleteness seemed rather that of youth than nature. At times there was the haughtiness of indifference, but never that of superciliousness, in his carriage and conduct towards his fellow passengers; though in truth they were just nothing to him. Manifestly he would be all independence, quite clear of incumbrances. He will identify himself with no interest that in any way shall hamper or control him. Well, he thinks that he has seen a good deal of the world, but his eyes have not yet been opened! He has never denied himself, except as his honor has made demands upon him. Never denied himself so far as to assume the cross. He has read Plato but not to learn that Plato was a prophet, a forerunner of ONE whose shoe's latchet he, like John, had not deemed himself worthy to unloose, though men called him "the divine." He is too young to be his master-but his master he is, in all points except two. There are certain lands not yet in his control, although he is the heir to them, for he is yet under age,-and he has not learned himself so well but that he thinks he has a knowledge of himself. Do you say, heaven defend us from that unfledged youth! I like him. What remarkable things he will see when he wakes up!-earth upside down very likely, and a general atmosphere of incomprehensibility enveloping all things. Regard him kindly, for he is in all respects your brother, though you see him standing on the deck of a vessel in the middle of the Atlantic ocean, and it is two hundred years ago! 
               He also had come upon the deck before sunrise. 
               His eyes fell on Miss Gladstone as he gained the topmost steps of the stairway; manifestly it was she whom he sought. Her face was not turned towards him, but as he ascended he caught the expression of its profile, and it made him hesitate, and then sent him off to a distant quarter of the deck. When at length she perceived him, and called him to her, he did not trip towards her like the "carpet knight," nor utter the light words that were upon his lips, but advanced with dignity, and stood quietly beside her, watching the advancing day. 
               At length the lady spoke. 
               "Something that you said yesterday, leads me to ask if you have really no notion of the world to which we are going? And whether it has no interest for you? I wonder that the continent did not seem more inviting." 
               She said she wondered with an emphasis that admitted of no doubt-it made a due impression on the listener. And the questioning gratified the young man, as any other questioning of hers had done: he not merely submitted to it, but his readiness to answer explained itself. 
               "If one wished to shake the old world's dust off his feet, he surely could not do it more effectually than on such a voyage as this," he said. 
               "But you had no such desire, with the future all before you there." 
               There should be a note of interrogation here; it was not in the lady's voice, but she meant it as a question. 
               "The Atlantic is a finer range for cruising than the Mediterranean," answered he, embarrassed, and betraying his embarrassment in spite of himself, as she looked at him for an answer. It was on his tongue to tell her, that she alone had drawn him out upon the deep, but he could no more have said it, than he could have fallen down before her, which also was his impulse. 
               "Neither conscience nor enterprise have had anything to do with your voyage, then. You must find it a dull experiment." 
               You think, perhaps, that Margaret was amusing herself in making these remarks. A guess less to the purpose is not to be made. 
               "I came because I was a sad fool, I suspect. Why should a wise man come?" asked Archibald Kensett. 
               By the suddenness with which the question was proposed, and the relieved expression of his features when he had spoken, Miss Gladstone very clearly perceived the effort of this utterance. She might have smiled, beholding what was in his heart, but instead, said very gravely: 
               "To find a temple large enough for the worship of his God-conscience is the explanation of this new colony. Conscience, not worldly expediency. Wise men come to glorify God, not to take advantage of each other." 
               If he sought information, must he not have felt satisfied with this? 
                
               "What should I do then in such a sphere? I am not looking for Utopia. What will you do?" 
               These words were spoken bluntly as they look. But the listener evidently did not take the question for the audacious utterance it really was, and she calmly answered: 
               "My duty." 
               And then he said, heaven forgive him! it was not for any information she could bestow, but merely for the listening to that voice that he sought to engage her in the speaking. Did she not understand it? It is likely that she did, but she perceived likewise a something in the young fellow that was worthy of development; he seemed to need her too in other ways than he suspected-so she felt. And then he said: 
               "Who instructed you in that? I would go to the world's end might I find the same teacher." 
               Miss Gladstone heard and mused, and answered: 
               "It were a short journey to perform, if, at the end of it, you might secure his counsel. But what is it that you say? Would you truly choose to have the same counsellor? He would set you no task that would be easy to perform." 
               "The more difficult the better!" 
               True and false both, in this speaking, was the youth. 
               "Because the difficulty would be a compliment to your capability?-or that you feel the stringent need of some engrossing application?" 
               Now this was more than Kensett asked for; he had no wish that morning to be thinking of himself, but of himself she compelled him to think. He made it quite apparent that he was not prepared for a questioning so close. He was not entirely in earnest, and her earnest questioning took him continually aback. But he rallied after a moment. Seriously he tried to follow her, for with such a leader, he surely might trust himself. She being so serious, it entirely behoved him to be serious also. Yet he might have laughed about it half an hour after, had there been any one to laugh with. 
                
               "I never could determine what I should do. See! I have a strong arm, shall I take my axe and go into the wilderness, or would your teacher, who perhaps was a student, pin me to a desk? Jove! that would be fine!" he laughed, but not merely in the wantonness of mirth. 
               "Take the axe," said she to the young man fretting under his boy's garb, so greatly he believed himself to have outgrown it. "Take the axe, and when you have felled forest trees to the number of your years, sit down to think, and you will have some good thoughts in your soul. Let the London dust be fairly dislodged from your brain, and the smoke from your eyes, before you go back to old England again. Since you have come upon the voyage, why let it prove a dead loss to you?" 
               "Would your teacher bid me so?" 
               "Unless you have your career mapped out before you; and then he would not interfere." 
               Thoughtfully owned Kensett, 
               "I know something of the career of a few eminent persons. Labor has not many attractions to my mind; there is no necessity, in my case, to labor. But I would cheerfully toil, and be ready to die, if I could sip the cup of which some have quaffed full draughts. There are two people in the world, a woman and a poet, that I envy." 
               They had been walking while they talked, but now the lady approached the vessel's side, and stood looking down on the great waves, and she watched them in their progress. For a time she seemed unconscious of his last words, as though she had not heard them, but at length she said: 
               "That is rather a strange fancy of yours. What could you find in the fortune of a woman that you should covet it so much?" 
               "The homage of a thousand thousand hearts." 
               "How won?" 
               "By supremacy in art." 
                
               "What art?" 
               "Song." 
               "Ah?" and that was all the acknowledgement she made. But, as if with one consent, they now resumed their walk. It was at a slower pace than before. 
               "Even to come within her influence," said young Kensett, not willing that the topic, thus far developed, (by her courtesy and not his skill, though he did not perceive that,) should drop here, finding it less difficult to manage than to drop, "was to feel how poor my own life was." 
               "And did that make you comfortable?" she said, surprised. 
               "Yes, for thus she enriched it; and it was because her spirit was as royal as her reputation. She ruled London, and not a man of her subjects but felt her right to rule." 
               The whole aspect of the youth had changed during the last moment; his step was more elastic, his face had brightened, he was within the circle of the magic influence of which he spoke. He looked upon the woman as a young eagle looks-on the sun. 
               Margaret Gladstone was not unmindful of what she beheld, and her own bearing was not quite what it had been-it was even loftier than before; loftier, but not prouder, for in this dignity was something that invited an approach, and was generous in promise. The words she spoke seemed to make good the promise. 
               "Did she no more than excite your admiration? Did she no more than please you? And do you call that a covetable place which admits the exercise of such powers as you ascribe to her, and can allow no more? Do you think that the singer herself would be satisfied with having done this and nothing more?" 
               "She lifted the city out of its dullness, and gave it a heavenly joy." That was a great deed to his mind. 
               "For a moment," she commented drily. 
                
               "The memory is eternal," he avouched with some emotion. 
               "To what purpose abides?" 
               "As a memory, most beautiful and perfect." 
               "Capable of preserving any, you-for you have felt the influence, and know how far it controlled you-could it preserve you from the assault of the least temptation?" 
               "Yes," he answered; not on impulse; he reflected before he spoke. Her manner of questioning required that he should. 
               "So far, then, her labor was not vain;" the assurance seemed to please her, though in the tribute there could have been nothing new to her. "But tell me," she continued, "who was the poet?" 
               "Carew." 
               She was disappointed at that answer, but did not state the fact. 
               "Carew," he repeated, for he saw nothing of her disappointment in her face-quiet and calm it was; could anything disturb it? Certainly not anything this lad could say. Her soul, her life, was far above his reach. Therefore, because he had something to add, he repeated, 
               "Carew, the poet that wrote the famous song, 
                      
                        'Give me more love or more disdain; 
                        The torrid or the frozen zone 
                        Bring equal ease unto my pain, 
                        The temperate affords me none.' 
                     
                   
                  She sang that song." 
               "I remember; it was very popular with certain audiences. She sang it in her youth, I must conclude, before she had learned better." 
               "It was not a year since that I heard it," said Kensett, quickly, in evident surprise; looking at her he failed to apprehend her meaning. 
               "And then she was but young, and very, very ignorant, as I am told; a very babe in knowledge." 
                
               Kensett looked at her still puzzled; he did not get her meaning, so he said: 
               "The poet was not a little indebted to her rendering of that song for the good favor into which he came. It is for the favor in which she held him that I envy that poet." 
               After this was spoken there was a silence, a silence full of thought, whose direction Miss Gladstone's next words indicated. 
               "She may have been his friend, but hardly, except by the singing of his songs. And is that proof, to your mind? It could not preserve him, either in life or in death." 
               "How can you say that-he died a penitent." 
               "Ah! I remember. I thank you for reminding me. Yes, he died a penitent." Then she again seemed to forget the speaker, and was lost in her own thoughts. They were deep beyond his sight. Presently she began a recitation: 
                      
                        "Mortals that would follow me 
                        Love Virtue; she alone is free; 
                        She can teach you how to climb 
                        Higher than the starry chime; 
                        Or if Virtue feeble were, 
                        Heaven itself would stoop to her." 
                     
                  
                
               The words came from her scarcely parted lips like the echo of some voice, as it might have been the voice of "Sabrina fair" from the blue depth beneath. The tone of her citation differed not less from Kensett's, than the lines that she had chosen to repeat. 
               "John Milton," said Kensett, recognizing the verse. 
               With a pleased smile she answered, looking upon him as he mentioned that name: 
               "You are right;" and after a thoughtful pause, "would that you might go to him! He is not a man to trifle with. It would be a short journey were it to the world's end, as I said, might you but find him. He would teach you a great philosophy. You should speedily forget these idols you have worshipped. You would discover the difference between a sun and a candle. You would see how one attracts its stars, and the other foolish things that burn their wings, which had better be used in flight, though they were born to perish in a day." 
               "Had you him for a teacher? I remember now that I have heard he has occupied himself in teaching." 
               "I saw his life," she answered. "I hoped that you would mention him instead of Thomas Carew. He is not a courtier. Think you it ever could have entered Carew's heart to say that he who would write of high things must himself be the true poem? 'Not presuming to sing of high praises of heroic men or famous cities, unless he have in himself the experience and the practice of all that which is praiseworthy.'" 
               "Said he that?" asked Kensett; a full appreciation of the words was in his voice, and this the lady perceived. "It was a great saying; a great poet only would have dared provoke the comparison." 
               Such was young Kensett's comment on John Milton's words. 
               "And that is he. A man who is employing his ten talents, and he will have made them other ten when they shall be required; but for Carew and the rest-vanity! vanity!" 
               "What future is it that you foresee for this new world that it should invite you?" asked Kensett, suddenly. "Can you foresee its destiny!" 
               The impulsive questioning did not disturb the hearer, but quietly she followed the erratic speaker, and quietly she answered: 
               "I can see as much as this: weakness growing strong, poverty becoming rich; a new world-a new world, indeed! perhaps something that shall shame that fancy of Sir Thomas of which you were speaking." 
               "But you will not behold the change." 
               "And shall I therefore not know it? And if the harvest be not mine, nevertheless is it not true that whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap? Because all mine are Thine!" 
               "What would such a land give me, Miss Gladstone?" 
               "The work you could do best," she answered instantly, but not eagerly. She knew there was a vast deal that the young fellow must do for himself, before he could do much for that New England towards which they were going. But she added, "The opportunity appeals to your patriotism. The glory of the New England must still reflect upon the old. What have you to give?" 
               "I have tried to speak honestly to you to-day," said Kensett, after a short pause, "but I find I have not. Such a career as I think you would point out to me has no attractions-none whatever for me." 
               The listener manifested no surprise hearing this, but said: 
               "If you consider it the chief end of life to enjoy, which I will not dispute; and if you consider that enjoyment consists in following your inclinations, and your inclinations never lead you out of yourself, I have nothing to say. I would be glad, however, if you could demand something nobler of yourself than discovery of your attractions." 
               Very quietly was this spoken, but there was the freshness of the sea breeze in her speech that struck quickening through the hearer's heart. By her manner she had thrown off the burden of the conversation. His responsibilities were not upon her head. She had merely felt a human interest in him, but if he were not able to sustain that interest, she had other things to think of. He had no wish to be disposed of so easily, and said in haste: 
               "I meant you to understand that I have never thought in the direction that you have, nor ever thought at all, as it now seems to me. I have not been compelled to walk with a purpose in any particular path, but have followed the bent of my inclinations. I merely came on this voyage instead of going to the Mediterranean." 
               He spoke rapidly, and seemed distressed that the lady did not understand him. She understood him better than he thought, and perceived that she might at least improve the aims, if not direct the issue of his life; and she said in a friendly way: 
               "In this land to which we go, everything noble and great, in development, is to be anticipated. Religious freedom will bring all true freedom in its train. A higher life is surely possible here where there will be no room and no occasion for such temporizing and expediency as abound elsewhere, in older states and among more luxurious people." 
               When she paused Kensett was silent. The silence, or the allurements of the prospect that opened before her imagination, led her on. 
               "I see that from this seed there will come a glorious harvest," she said, kindling with her own words. "There will come a time when beauty shall thrive in the land. Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir tree, and the rose in place of the thistle. And the land shall be Immanuel's land. In this very movement toward the setting sun, far-seeing eyes behold the assurance of a great fact. From time to time the Old World has lifted her eyes and her hands toward the West. And now the meaning of her mute supplication is revealed. A day will surely come when she that now is poorest shall be richest of the nations. All energy and virtue shall be in her. She will teach old nations. They shall bow down before the new, as Joseph's brethren bowed before their strange brother, the chief, in a strange land. There is a sovereign necessity in all this-the necessity of Providence. One cannot be mistaken, need not be disappointed here." 
               Those last words were not emphasized, yet they had the effect of an especial meaning; elsewhere there had been disappointment for her, and what might he anticipate? Moved by what she had spoken, Kensett half turned from her, saying, as he did so, 
               "I am not worthy to hear this. It never entered my heart. I-I have seen the time when I could laugh at such hopes as you speak of." 
               "But you do not laugh now. Indeed I did not anticipate that. Do you think that I would cast pearls before swine?" 
               "I am equally certain that you would have a man yield himself on account of his convictions, and for no other reason." 
               "In no other way could a man yield. The wise man surrenders, but not from compulsion. With him 'tis not the laying down of rebellious arms, but the removal of blindness, as was the case with Paul." 
               "So I have thought, but my heart is perverse enough to contend with your arguments. I like them not to sound so plausible. If I yielded to them I could never trust myself again." 
               The answer she made him sounded not much to the purpose. "They call us to breakfast," she said. "We will speak of this again, if it should seem desirable. But it is time that we should break this fast." 
               Kensett's good sense prevented him from a correction of her last word-hindered him from saying that it had not been a fast but feast to him. He dared not say it to her. 
               As she spoke, Margaret Gladstone moved across the deck, and Kensett followed closely. He saw her just before him, in her plain black garment; no ornament on neck, hand, arm, or bosom. He was not wise, as critics are, but he decided then and there the secret and the quality of all her power. A point that critics held at that time in dispute. It was the greatness of the woman that had made her great in art. No false pretences in the casket of her nature; the diamonds were all real-fit for angel as for woman; for the New Jerusalem, where we are told the angels accredited dwell- and the city is lustrous with the jewels which have a goodly name on earth. 
               Later in the day they chanced to be again together; yet it was not by chance they met: something further was to be said by each. If the young gentleman, without a prospect, would know further of her anticipations and her hopes, Miss Gladstone was ready to reveal them, because she thought she saw a promise in his nature which he should be stirred up to redeem. 
               For him, there was no sound conceivable like the sound of her voice. The actual things of which she had been speaking had a wondrous charm for him, because her faith was in them; and during the few hours which had passed since they met he had been contrasting his own future, lying lost in shadows before him, vague, not to be discerned, with the career to which this grand woman, who had tested the full worth of worldly applause, aspired. 
               Some real, some mighty influence had wrought upon, and had determined her. She would have him believe, he said to himself, and he did not exaggerate the point, he was quite right in his conclusion, that it was her religion that impelled her forward in this new career, for he was persuaded of the fact that she understood his recognition. He did not question her sincerity-she had given an evidence of it which he could not doubt-yet she might be self-deceived. His presumption was to be pardoned on the ground that he knew not what he did, and because within this admiration of the woman, this desire to hear the speech of one who in song had been supreme, there was a desire that had some heavenly virtue in it, however slight it might be. 
               He found her ready to receive and speak with him, for she gave him a smile of welcome as he came-it was more serious than that he had seen upon her face when she acknowledged the homage of a multitude. The smile was meant for him, and was as gracious and as sweet, he thought, as would have fallen upon the king of men-her lover! That was but a fancy of his-a boy's fancy-and no presumption in it, for he was not thinking of himself when he sought her; but a fancy, indeed! He had not seen her, none but Heaven saw when she looked her last upon the lord of her affections, her dead and shrouded lord, made ready for the grave. She had never smiled on man or woman, since that day, as she had smiled before; for her heart could never smile again. The crowds that gathered at her call as though she held them at her will, she an enchantress-could not distinguish in her first appearance and her last, a difference; but there were some, even among those who knew not her story, that were saddened and made better by the new tones her voice discovered during the last year of her triumphs. 
               If it was an impulse on which she had acted in making this final disposal of herself, it was an impulse that had found a full development. Months had rolled away while she deliberated over the aspiration of her heart, the impulse that continually inspires the loving of earth and heaven to give to the beloved. To the King that had redeemed her she now gave herself; and what would the King of Heaven have her do? 
               The laborious life of the poet of whom she had spoken to Kensett, her own habits of continued occupation, incited her; she must still labor, and when she at length made known her determination, there were few that made an opposition to it. 
               Earnest and true herself, from first to last, few beside the earnest and true had ever become very near to her. Of them she had taken counsel in making this disposal of herself. They had not hindered her. . . . . . 
               She perceived more in young Kensett than he had himself yet arrived at, and it was because he sought her, and not by any means for the proselyting of an emigrant, that she was willing to attempt the enlightening of his actual darkness. 
               So now, while the vessel speeds upon its way, on the swift breeze that bears them, let their words go forth, finding what haven they may. Good soil to the good seed! 
               And we, meanwhile, will go ashore, and take a turn upon the coast. Come away, then! But not to any harbor, not to any seaport, any shipping town. The shadow of a sail falls never on this shore; the foot of mariner walks never on this beach. It is a point of land of which no seaman's eye takes cognizance. Lonely as the grave; barren as a desert, it lies beside the sea in unprophetic silence. Only two hundred years ago! 
               That solitude is broken now. Year after year the gay and sad, the old and young, the good and vile, come down to the sea side; they come and go; it is the same sky that lifted high above the head of Abigail and Maud. And I am writing of yesterday, not of to-day. It is two hundred years ago. 
               And so when you have done the best you may with Kensett, read again the farewell words of Lady Margaret Leigh, and John Milton's precious message of good cheer, and look down upon the rolling waters, and listen to their roar, chief Singer of the world! Still it must recall to you that other sound, so many years a quickening and inspiring sound to you; rising like the thousand voices that have cheered and blessed you on your way;-but looking up to heaven, you still see Heaven's own similitude of calm peace and an unwavering purpose, the double consecration of your future. 
             
             
                
               II. THE DESERT AND WASTE PLACE. 
               NOT far from sea, though many miles from the port our voyagers sought, was a farm-house, on whose door step sat a woman smoking a pipe! 
               Fifteen years ago she would no sooner have put a pipe into her mouth, than she would have worn a dress like that she now has on. Her person bears the marks of labor. She is not soiled and grim, but she is worn and faded, and, to all appearance, broken down. 
               The farm, of which the house upon whose doorstep she is resting, is the centre, is rich in but one or two acres of cultivated soil. It was purchased in haste, and it is as much as the owners can do to make a living off it. But they made up their minds, at least the woman sitting on the doorstep did, to go out of the world. And they are out of it as effectually as though, instead of mere isolation on the earth's surface, they had descended six feet from the light of day. 
               The farm-house has the great merit of answering the purpose for which it was built. It is of stone-square, strong, commodious. It was built by the first owner of the land, and after his untimely death, Abigail Saltonstall became its purchaser; here Perrine, her husband, and Maud, her daughter, live. And there is neither man-servant, nor maid-servant within their gates, nor has been since they came here twelve years before this story opens. 
                
               Circumstances, which it would serve no purpose to dwell on now, wrought the proud spirit of Abigail Saltonstall to its most energetic action; years ago occasioned the transportation of herself and her infant daughter suddenly and secretly from their former home to this drear waste. In its dead level lies no bad likeness of the experience through which she has passed. 
               Milking-time is over; Maud drives the cows to pasture; Perrine works out of sight; Abigail is alone;-there is nothing unusual in the stillness of the house and place, but she feels it more profoundly than she is wont. For it is by the heart, and not the sense, that nature is interpreted. 
               Now the woman Abigail, gray Mrs. Saltonstall, is not actually there upon the doorstep smoking a pipe, with her thin arms folded on her breast, drooping, forlorn, solitary. She is not gazing, as one might suppose, on the hopeless red clay field beyond the strip of garden ground, nor beyond it to the red horizon glowing into glory. She waits not there for husband or for child. She is twenty years younger, and three thousand miles away. 
               In that sad face and wasted figure there is an evidence of power that cannot well be overlooked. There is little in it to compel attention, except an air of lofty pride, which cannot be hidden this night by any external arrangement. Smiles are rarely seen upon her face. It was the haunt of smiles once. This does not seem incredible, though now that countenance is the witness of a resolution that is inflexible as iron. 
               Her dress, it may be, would not disgrace a beggar, but it is such as you would never find upon a sloven's back. All things around her testify the woman is no sloven. But why should she embellish her life? She knows what that life has been, and what it must be. She has seen it stripped to barrenness, and she is not the person to cheat herself, or to beguile others by adding unto it any embellishment-not the least. If the world-it knew her once-if that astonished world were here to look at her, she is just what she would be. She is greatly above imposing on herself. Perhaps her life might seem to glide on more cheerily for her if she could or would; but it is a deep stream, and gives forth no imitation of the shallow, shining brook. 
               She is able to receive that which has been awarded, in a stern spirit, such as she imagines commensurate with the significance of the gift. Here is not the temper that needs beguiling. In the failure of this life she has raised herself above it-but not, like Margaret Gladstone, to enter heaven by so doing. 
               No; she stands upon the verge of the great gulf that lies between two dominions. She has been faithful to a vow-faithful, to the death of all her hopes, the sweet and daring hopes of youth, which were not presumptuous because they were the hopes of love-of love, oh gentle heart!-to the death of a fair prospect; to the death of a clear-brained woman's aspirations; to the death of all things that pertained exclusively to her own life. She has been magnanimous to the last degree possible to any soul that strives in its own strength; she has abided by her oath; she has kept her troth inviolate; has taken up her burden, and gone with it to the desert. This life ended to her years ago. 
               She is all too brave for suicide, and is not slain of grief. She is too compassionate for suicide. There is her husband, for whom she must live; she pities, and does not love him. There is Maud, whom she does love, and whose heritage she knows. Here is life, or, not life, but time; and beyond is eternity. Her heart has been frozen; it is not weakly human, nor yet, alas! serenely heavenly. What has a woman who has neither heaven nor earth? A portion that is not so very rare, friend; too terrible to name. 
               She is existing, but her life has been stung; her faith shattered. While the Resurrection is walking through the world, she lies in conscious helplessness before the beautiful gate of the temple, and waits for an apostle. Her eyes are holden. 
               Yet she is above complaint; groans never escape her. She prays to God, indeed, but she is disappointed in earth, and whatever the bent knee may accomplish for her, it has as yet wrought little that she can recognize. She is patient, and prays. Were the process reversed: did she pray and become hopeful, she would see, and hear, and walk, and her heart should have its song. She knows nothing of life absolute. Dependent on relations which have failed her-as they always, from their very nature, must do-she has suffered, seems indeed to have perished. She is more silent than peaceful, her face expresses. There is not much that she and Perrine Saltonstall can talk about when they are alone together. Neither of them were born farmers; and shut out as they are from the world, they are deprived of the constantly recurring themes, aided by which people who are thrown together without much sympathy, can manage to survive each other. They have a respectable collection of books, and with these on Sundays they contrive to pass the time. In the instruction of Maud they have a point of interest at which they can meet-a work to which the aid of both is given. 
               Abigail is still young. Those gray hairs have nothing to do with time. In the arrangement of her locks is no attempt to set off the fine contour of the face and head, yet it has this result. The severity of the mouth, the steady expression of the eyes, the worn figure, the hardened hands, which labor has misshapen, these points tell that she has not held back from any labor, nor been careful to spare her human strength, nor been anxious about herself in any way. 
               She does not often allow herself to be overtaken by the thoughts which just now have compassed her. They pursue her, but she is rarely conscious of it-that she is sometimes conscious, proves that which it is no joy for her to know. 
               Would she indulge her thoughts this night she might recall call scenes, strange and varying, as often came within one life's experience. She does indulge them. 
               Of a fair home, whose pride-just pride-she was; of circles which looked to her as their attraction, wherein voices of love called her to hold a conspicuous place in matters of joyous social concernment. She might think of studies conducted by the firm hand of a proudly expectant heart; of eyes that watched the progress of the child; of growth from infancy to girlhood; of the joyful stage thence on to happy maidenhood; of sweet-tongued admiration, generous praises; of the bewildering endearments of love; of hopes that every day had their fulfilment; of the dear chamber where her Maud was born; of the stroke that, like lightning, stripped her of all things, and left her happy heart strong, strong and stern-red, warm, throbbing, like heated iron, not good flesh. 
               Of any of these facts she might be thinking; and her aspect, as she sits upon the door step, now that we are prepared to discover in her something beside the hard-working farming woman, betokens that she must be thinking of these things. 
               Maud has come in from the pasture. On the grass, under the tree that shades the house, she lies, full in her mother's sight. How like her mother-how unlike! 
               Maud is fourteen years of age. The free, out-door life that she has led, unrestrained in the enjoyment of all things nature could bestow there, has established her in health and strength. She springs with the warmth of a rich enthusiastic nature to the enjoyment of all her surroundings. Her daily life is full of satisfaction. Abigail Saltonstall can recognize herself in Maud. She sees herself, and shudders; but even while she shudders, there is a compression of her lips that tells of resolution. But some times, in spite of the resolution, those firm lips have become tremulous, and tears have fallen from the mother's eyes as she looked upon her child. 
               Will it be always as it is now with Maud? Will this daily joy continue through the years that are to come? She who has not been equal to the deliverance of herself-for she is yet in bondage to the past, and bitterly she feels it-what can she do for others? She can do nothing but educate her daughter, and leave the rest to God. And she feels this not as privilege, but as necessity! She leaves nothing to God that she can compass of herself. 
               Maud does not know weakness, or sickness, or pain. She can toil without weariness or languor. The delights she finds in the simple pleasures within her reach bespeak a nature equal to the reception of the richest draught of life. It would not intoxicate her. There is a stream that runs across the farm, and down towards the sea three miles away, and there, at certain seasons of the year, fish are to be taken;-chestnut and walnut trees abound in the woods further inland, and Maud and Lady Jane-beautiful, dear Lady Jane, who sleeps in the stable near-have made for themselves many a forest path. So the girl can fish, and hunt, and gather nuts and berries, and fly through the air like a bird, sitting firm on the back of her darling horse. 
               Maud loves her mother, and she stands in awe of her. There is something she does not understand, because she does not feel it, that restrains her from expressing all her thoughts and her emotions as they gush out from her heart, to her mother, the only woman she has ever known. The repression is not a painful one, not consciously a painful one, because she has never yet known freedom from it; it does not therefore strike upon her liberty as something that is fettered. 
               They rarely hear her singing in the house. But when she is alone! verily I would that you might hear this forest bird. I would her voice's tone might run along these pages leaving here its sweet, excelling light. The voice was Maud's inheritance, and the substance of her gifts; they all went to make up its glory, as kingly attributes conspire toward their proper splendor in the crown of royalty. Her nature ascended in melodious and harmonious completeness to this superior result. 
               Such likewise had been her mother's gift, but not for years, and never in the hearing of her daughter, had the voice of Abigail Saltonstall been raised in song. 
               When Maud was an infant, while she lay on Abigail's bosom, and the people of the town recognized the life of Abigail for the proud, and happy, and exalted life it was, in those days the voice had not been still. The essential brightness of that fortune, and the gift of song, seemed to have fallen upon the child when both forsook the mother. She had not been taught in song, nor in the world's delight of life, yet she knew both, and life and song she loved. 
               Maud had no instruction; she was not conscious of the want of any; her voice was an unknown tongue to her; she knew not what the spirit could say through it to others who understood the language. Therefore it was a joy to her, and nothing more. When the birds in the woods answered her call with a storm of responsive melody, and the tears gushed from her eyes, she knew not why, but there was the exultation, the proof of the exceeding riches of her gift in this; and when, after some burst of emotion, she looked up with clear eyes through the tree branches to the sky, she had not to travel the length of a speculation, imagining, or thought, to find that purity of heart and that humility, and reverence, and love, in which the soul finds its proper appareling for the presence of God. 
               But the voice, as I said, was rarely heard in the house, never in a strain like this; nor did she ever yield there, or find an exaltation there, to such enthusiasm and delight, though she was joyous everywhere. Sometimes Abigail found herself listening with the most painful earnestness to the sound of this voice as it came to her from a distance-even detected herself in the endeavor to draw from it some token and evidence of Maud's inmost life-that hidden life which she would not call into conscious existence. 
               The expectation which she drew from it lay rather like an impression on her soul, than stood up within her mind a fully developed thought. What did she detect there? An affectionate, but more volatile temperament than her own. A spirit that would ride more easily, more safely too, upon the waves, and not drift heavily through the waters; well balanced it seemed; its disposition was not to brood over grieving or doleful thoughts. This was abundantly shown in her manner of meeting the events of daily life. Even such as could befall her in that condition, were sufficient to prove her. It was a cheerful, glad temperament, not a deep-seeing, or far-reaching intelligence. The clearness of vision to read clean through the characters of those with whom she came in contact was not hers, nor in any after stage of development would be. 
               If Perrine Saltonstall had deserted his wife, or if she had deserted him at the time of their calamity; if among a class of persons, strangers all to him, he had been permitted to outgrow the sense of this calamity as he might, under certain circumstances, have done, (I do not say to his own credit, or future good, for the calamity did not result from the clashing of inevitable circumstances, but had sin for its foundation, and its impulse, and for it he was entirely responsible,) if he had started into life again, fresh from that new plane, he would have presented in all relations, and in all respects, even down to his personal presence, a very different appearance from that he now presents. 
               In another sphere, though it were one that, like this, compelled him to toil, Saltonstall would have continued what he once was, an elegant and prepossessing man, well-bred, intelligent. What was he here? Why, he still loved his wife, and ever bore in mind the fact that the change he saw in her was occasioned by his doing-by the unimagined discovery of himself to her. His love had not turned to hate, as sometimes the love of the offending does. In spite of all his wife's efforts to give what she understood of this affection, another direction, that so it might not derogate from its original quality, it sunk with him. He revered what had been the order of his life. It was he who had brought about the present state of things, who had darkened her day before its morning was ended. While he despised and loathed himself for this, he was prevented from experiencing the most natural result of her treatment of the fact. Mistaking it, and yet doubtful of it; and he acted upon it day after day, so as to be placed beyond the possibility of unconsciousness to it. It would have betokened a loftier spirit in him if, when aware of the desolation he had wrought, after learning in its presence, if he could not learn otherwise, his own degradation, he had, unable to endure it, gone out from its presence to become a wanderer on the earth, or a laborer who should achieve some sort of fame to lay at some future time at her feet, he would thus have more worthily asserted his manhood; but here to be borne into this shelter of retirement, to live alone in her daily sight, and venture still to love her-this was the man! 
               He was no longer, in any respect, what he had been; except on rare occasions, when, alone with Maud, he would return to the spirit of his youth. Ordinarily he went about like the pilgrim, with a pack on his back, his naturally free and graceful bearing lost in a stooping gait and sluggish step, and an indecision of speech and act, ill-calculated either for the dignified occupation, or the enjoyment of life. 
               He came up to the farm house a few minutes after Maud's return. From the moment he turned the corner of the house and came into his wife's presence there was a perceptible change in him. He had been talking with Maud in the field, but now was still; he had laughed, but now was grave; he had moved with something of his old grace and dignity, but that had vanished; he had held Maud by the hand, but now he walked alone. 
               Maud did not observe this change-her mother had not witnessed it, for as soon as she saw Perrine she arose and laid aside her pipe, and said something about taking up the supper that waited on the hearth. 
               Then Maud said, springing from the grass and going to her father- 
               "Shall we go down to the beach again very soon do you think, father?" 
               "May be," he answered. 
               "Do you think I shall ever see another vessel, as I did once? Oh! how it made me feel, father!" 
               "Perhaps you might go every day of your life and never see another," said Perrine, wearily: then he added, to check the dreaming spirit of the girl, for the interpreted the longing look upon her face, "sailors know too well the dangers of a coast like this ever to come near it." 
               "They never would come on purpose, then," said Maud, disappointed. 
               "On purpose! not if their life was worth a pin. How long is it since you went down to the beach last, Maud? We went this afternoon, you remember." The girl looked at him and laughed, joyously thinking of that three-mile journey. 
               "A long, long time. Why don't we live down there? It was dreadful to come away!" she added. 
               "For what?" asked Perrine, shortly-but really interested, as he always was in whatever his child found to say-"for what should we go down and pitch our tent in the sand, you foolish child?" 
               "The company, father!-everything!" 
               Perrine laughed; his wife, who heard this answer from within, walked quickly away out of hearing, and said to herself, "Oh God! oh God!" and in the utterance there was the pathos and the anguish of a cry. 
                
               "Company!" repeated the father-"what company?" 
               Maud did not blush, but looked thoughtfully upon the ground and considered the subject. Before she replied they were bidden to supper, and Perrine did not question her about what she had said before her mother, and the girl seemed to forget his question. But she did not forget it. She thought to herself that in a day or two she would ride Lady Jane down to the rock, and climb it, and drop her line, and fish there in the sun. She would feel the wind, and see those birds that looked so wild and strange, as they dashed down from the heights of air into the depths of water-hear "the breaking waves," and perhaps another ship would come in sight! Her father could not say, with certainty, another ship would never come. At all events she would find society down there; the ocean's thousand voices, and the charm of a great prospect that had no boundary, no limit but the sky. 
             
             
                
               III. THE HEART'S ELECTION. 
               THE light breeze that tossed Maud Saltonstall's hair, as she lay on the grass under the shade of the great oak tree, whose shadow took the house within its arms, strengthened as the day departed-it increased to a gale during the night; the sea came within its course, even the great ocean, and there were ships abroad-ships sailing to and fro, outward and homeward bound. They were making all speed towards various ports, for they who sail the oceans never linger by the way. Life and treasure were upon the highways of the deep, and this light breeze was hailed with welcome by the voyagers. It came from shore, and was welcome to the pilgrim and the emigrant; it came from shore, and was a last farewell to those who were departing from the New World. 
               It came to many as the voice of a friend, and insidiously stole into their hearts. But there were others who received it otherwise; they were familiar with its tone; they had before now given it battle, and at its first sound they recognized, feared, made ready for a struggle; prepared for a night of violence: which came. 
               Margaret Gladstone sat in the cabin reading, apart from a group of talkers, when her attention was arrested by the sound of this rising wind. The captain had said to her that day, that a good stiff breeze from the right direction would greatly help to shorten their long voyage. She smiled when she caught the first sound of the gale, and its swift result, the quickened and violent motion of the vessel, the creaking of cordage and flapping of sails, and to watch the storm, if storm were rising, she left the cabin. 
               As she closed the door behind her, and went towards the stairway, by the light of the lamp, that swung upon the deck, she caught a glimpse of the captain passing hurriedly by. The next instant, while she waited, he returned, shouting his orders, and then came swiftly down the staircase: he saw Miss Gladstone as he did so. "A sudden gale," said he, recognizing her as she stood surrounded by shadows;-he spoke quickly, and without delaying his speed for a second. 
               When he had gone by, she went up the stairs to watch the waves and clouds. There was greatly more than the change from morning to night between this scene and that which met her eyes while she kept the morning watch. The sky was cold and hard; along the horizon stretched a heavy line of cloud from which rose constantly the messengers of darkness and of storm; they drifted towards the zenith, between the quiet sky and all the hosts of stars, and the deep, unquiet sea. 
               Slowly she turned, and gazed from point to point of the horizon. From every direction rose the prescience of a fierce contest that was drawing nigh;-commotion everywhere, in drifting cloud, and rolling, roaring sea; in the swift rushing gusts of wind; the floods above, and those beneath drew constantly nearer to each other, and ships and lives were not within their reckoning; resistless and relentless, the elements, through their fierce agitation, leaped from point to point, till the conflict was inevitable. 
               It was a terrible, but splendid sight; and more terrible and splendid from its suddenness. It tossed the soul along with it to a forgetfulness of danger. Thus Margaret Gladstone watched it. 
               Thus Archibald Kensett watched it. 
                
               "You have not your wish," he said to her-he had approached Margaret unobserved-"but I have mine; we shall see a fine storm yet. I know what these indications mean. How cold it has grown within an hour. . . . This is a welcome home for us! This New England is not over friendly." 
               "We may trust that she will not refuse us, however," said Miss Gladstone, her eyes still watchful of the clouds, more mindful of them than of the words he spoke. "It may be we shall be glad to run into her arms yet, and entreat her to take us as she finds us, on trust-impoverished children. Those clouds are full of threatening, as you say." 
               "I recognize the wind. It stirs me like the voice of a friend. I welcome it. There will be a great storm. . . . Miss Gladstone, pardon me, but I would like to see you exposed to the fury and danger of a tempest. I would willingly incur extreme danger to see how you would meet it." 
               It was not easy to speak so as to be heard in such a gale; but Kensett attributed to other causes than this the silence that followed his remark, and he said to himself, "She treats it as an impertinent, presumptuous speech, which it probably is;" but he was mistaken; she answered, with a glance at him: 
               "Your own condition would be worthier of your attention, I should suppose. In observing others you might only perceive a physical overthrow, and your own calmness would, perhaps, betoken anything but a wise confidence in your safety. Would you, indeed, be calm in the very face of death? Would not its mystery, at least, disturb you?" 
               Yes; since he was a human being, his thoughts upon that subject seemed to her worth knowing. 
               "It would not, if I might take what has been as the evidence of what shall be," he answered. 
               "I do not understand you, unless you admit one of two things as true of yourself-loving confidence in your Maker, or unbelief in Him," said Margaret. "The spirit cannot be so overborne by the flesh that you would derive a mere carnal pleasure in witnessing a terrific conflict without taking into consideration its personal event." 
               This last word touched on the truth of the matter; the truth had never appeared before young Kensett's mind in this light until now, but now he recognized it as the truth, and he was not swift to speak. Miss Gladstone seemed not to anticipate an answer-seemed, indeed, to dismiss him from her mind with the expression her thoughts had just found. This voice of the tempest which she had feared to hear, though it was terrible, had yet a fascination for her soul, which a human voice disturbed. Her spirit roused to the height of the occasion, and was not overwhelmed by its sublimity or horror. 
               Kensett's words had been suggestive of many thoughts to her. As is common in times of anticipated danger, her mind went back to the peaceful life she had led far away-the green fields full of sunlight, and rich summer growths-the hills wrapped in their royal purple robes-the whole beauty of the great English garden from which she had come out to this contact with storm and cold, in search of a rude home among strangers. It was into no smooth path that duty had led her-by no flowery way. The great waves dashed against her hopes, yet they could not destroy them. She had no companion in her journey-she had come out as a teacher to the world of the pilgrims-the work was ready for her hands, was waiting for her coming, and her occupation. But did this elemental strife prefigure what she should find there? Of this she had no fears, and yet there did not at all times hang so fair a light over the prospect as now, even now in this storm's midst. More glorious still than the sun glow which composed the land she had left, was the radiance that brightened the field where already the sowers were abroad, the field wherein as yet no reaper could find work to do. It seemed now as if the vision had arisen strong and fair in the midst of all this turbulence to re-assure her-and painfully the words of Archibald Kensett broke in upon the promise. But they were not powerful enough to entirely obscure the vision. 
               "It would be but a brief struggle with the waves, and then-then all would be over," said the young man, who during the past days had seemed under some necessity of emptying his mind of its perversity before her. For the spirit was calling him, and to evade the call he had busied himself with much talk in the ear of a human listener, and she, of "the abounding sympathy of woman," had hearkened, and endeavored to set his sail right for the wind, which, alas, changed constantly. 
               "What would be over?" she now asked him. 
               "Life," he answered, with a gloomy intonation that caught her ear, and troubled her, he had evidently so much yet to learn; and how was he going to learn it, proud, vain, careless, daring that he was? 
               "Life would only be begun." she said, and evidently believed it. 
               "What is that hereafter?" he asked, looking upward to the darkening heaven-and not a star was there. 
               "All fruition. The result, the harvest home," said she, with prompt, joyous serenity. 
               "This ship would be like a reed in a storm; I have been at sea in a gale. There is something I like in being tossed in such a whirl and helplessness as one feels at such a time. It is worth droning through a dozen years of calm, sunny weather, if you can come upon a storm at last." 
               "If ever you should pass through such a scene tell me what is in your thought when the fear of death is on you," said Miss Gladstone merely. 
               In another woman the words would have had a contemptuous sound, as if she had attached but a slight value to the expression of himself in which he was now indulging. 
               "I have already passed through such a scene," he remarked. 
                
               "And with what result?" 
               "Delight." 
               "Nothing beside?" 
               "Nothing, upon my honor." 
               "The assurance needs the full weight of such an attestation. To me it is incredible." 
               A lofty scorn seemed in those words of Margaret Gladstone. Kensett heard them, and looked at her, uncertain, confused. Aware that he had fallen in her sight, he hastened to recover himself. So he asked her pardon for having committed himself. 
               Then she answered, with a gravity and sadness more attractive to him than the smiles of other women, and more effectual in stirring him: 
               "How often I have heard such words. How strange is your mistake. You need not ask my pardon; it is little to have surprised me, but a great thing to have wronged yourself, when, by so doing, you wrong God more." 
               "Go on," said Kensett quickly, for he was smitten with sudden shame; "you do not wound me, but my vanity." 
               With a motion swift, unanticipated-an impulse full of grace-the lady gave him her hand. From that moment she was his friend. 
               "How well I understand that! you dare disown whatever you feel to be unworthy of you!" she said. "Now let us talk no more of these things. We never shall agree while we remain as we now are; and I am the oldest, and am living with an aim; you have much to learn, my friend." 
               Instead of obeying her, which, perhaps, she did not anticipate or desire, Kensett said: 
                      
                        "'Now I am here, what wilt thou do with me? 
                        None of my books will show; 
                        I read and sigh, and wish I were a tree, 
                        For sure then I should grow 
                        To fruit or shade: at least some bird would trust 
                        Her household to me, and I should be just."' 
                     
                  
                
                
               "George Herbert made that inquiry of the Divine Wisdom; I direct you to the same school where he was taught," answered Miss Gladstone. 
               "Tell me, you will know, why should he sing in this strain while he was neither idle nor useless, but a holy man, and full of good works? They call him divine, as they call Plato." 
               "His own words tell you why: 
                      
                        'Oh rack me not to such a vast extent, 
                        Those distances belong to thee; 
                        The world's too little for thy tent, 
                        A grave too big for me.' 
                     
                   A sentiment, of which those who have tried life furthest, will know most. You will generally find that the bravest and most faithful souls are not the most vaunting and bold. Real strength and vanity do not go hand in hand, or find a common lodging so often as you may think." 
               "But is a man never to be satisfied with his deeds, however good or great?" 
               "All experience seems to assure him so." 
               "Why, then, this unceasing labor, this unending struggle? The whole world is like a madhouse, full of insane commotion and endeavor. For is not all this toil, vanity, and vexation, if what you said just now is true? And very true it sounds, I do confess." 
               "Still water stagnates; running streams find the sea, doing damage by the way, some of them, but, for the most part, blessing the lands they pass through. Rest, if it be perpetual, is not rest, but decay. And we must all seek God if we find Him. We must work out our salvation with fear and trembling. Such words of Herbert's as you quoted find their explanation in the apostle's words, which are not, however, so much an injunction as an expression of necessity, which all men recognize when they learn the meaning of eternal life." 
                
               "Eternal life!" repeated Kensett, struck by her pronunciation of those words, and because he was so impressed, actually believing that she might have some new wisdom to impart on that head; and not careful now as to the impressions he might convey through the question, he asked, "what do you mean by that?" 
               "The Christian life." 
               "But that has its end, as other life." 
               Foolish sound as this remark of his may have, it was an indication of his willingness at that moment to become a fool if so he might learn. 
               "It never ends," said Margaret Gladstone. "Did not Jesus Christ rise from the dead? God will bring with Him all His followers." 
               "But none can follow Him except those whom He permits, elects." 
               "Well?" said Miss Gladstone inquiringly. 
               "That is a hard saying." 
               "Why so?" 
               "It passes my belief." 
               "Let it pass then. Only be sure that you elect yourself." 
               "You speak with confidence. Who taught you in these things? How can a man elect himself?" 
               "By casting in the vote that will determine all. But pray that your eyes may be opened, that you may read what's written on the paper. That is to say, be wise, as becomes your station- 
                      
                        'He that loseth gold, though dross, 
                        Tells to all he meets his cross: 
                        He that sins, hath he no loss? 
                     
                      
                        'He so far thy good did plot, 
                        That His own self He forgot- 
                        Did He die, or did He not?' 
                     
                   This, to my mind, is the one thing you should consider." 
               "I dare not ask you how you came to a consideration and knowledge of these things; but to actually learn it, I would go farther than to find the instructor of whom you were speaking." 
               "In many schools," answered Miss Gladstone, aware of the full weight of her words, if the tone in which they were spoken could be taken as the utterance of her heart-and to doubt this there was no room-"in many schools one lesson was continually given me; I was a long time mastering it. I would not believe that the experience of all the world should be mine also. Whether I came to knowledge through a dark path, or light, I came to it. I think that it is neither joy nor sorrow, in itself, that can explain my present position. I do not think that either experience constrained me in any degree to the step I have at length taken. But a consideration of what life is, and what death is. These are the two points we must regard; all else may be dependent, but these are absolute. Lift yourself above sense and time, and from that point of elevation look at earth and heaven. Moses veiled his face when he descended. And you, perhaps, will find your life cast among those who could not receive or share your vision, and then you will not discover it, but it will be an everlasting joy to you." 
               This conversation had not all been conducted on the deck, in the midst of that tempestuous wind. They had gone down together to the cabin, and had spoken together there. 
               For, as moment by moment went on, and the spirit of their words deepened in earnestness and interest, Margaret Gladstone took young Kensett's arm, and led the way down the stairs. 
               When she had spoken the words last recorded, he arose, saying as he did so: 
               "It may be that I shall go back to England a wiser man than I came out. If the words you have spoken are universally true, it will perhaps happen, that I shall return with a new song in my mouth. EUREKA!" 
                
               "EXCELSIOR!" exclaimed Miss Gladstone, rising also, with her eyes upon him. The heart of the young man swayed violently to and fro, as any audience in her presence had ever done. If she perceived it, she was careful that this should not be the predominating result of her speaking. "I assure you in regard to this truth," she said, "that like all truth, it has a general, a universal significance. All individual life must adapt itself to the great law of spiritual life. That law will not in any common sense adapt itself to them. Receive this truth, and I need not bid you think of it. May it never deliver you from its hold, until it has delivered you by its possession." 
               "Are you a Puritan?" asked Kensett, surveying the speaker in a wonderment he made no effort to conceal; for the fact broke upon him now as one of which he had been wholly unaware. 
               Margaret smiled as she answered: 
               "A Puritan do you ask? It may be. But will you reproach me for that?" 
               "I used to despise the name." 
               "Do you like that of Christian better?" 
               That was indeed a question. 
               "I did not," he owned frankly. 
               "Do you?" she urged; for his answer invited this continuance of interrogation. 
               "Yes." 
               "And why?" 
               "Because-because you glorify it!" broke from him. 
               "Learn from me, then, for I can teach you best in this: because I am a Christian I am glorified, and for no other reason." 
               He disputed that point. He said: 
               "You bring to your new calling a fame that is glorious. You lay on the altar the richest gift of this century. The sacrifice seems to me a-an awful one!" 
                
               "If indeed I brought that gift," said she, "I might with reason anticipate the wrathful judgment of my Maker; as it is I look for His blessing. And whatever shall befall me, know this, to my heart it is God's-GOD'S benediction. I can anticipate all things but failure. The Christian never fails." 
               He left her with that preaching. But she knew not if the gospel were received. 
             
             
                
               IV. THE FEAR OF DEATH. 
               IT was two days after that the night was again descending, and the voices of those who held command on board the ship were hoarse with shouting, and death was looking weary men and terrified women in the face, and few were they who could return that irresistible glance with any, the least composure. The men were battling for life; and the women, such of them as had been able to overcome the frenzy of their fear, were laboring with the men-but what were they to combat with the madness of the floods? They had lifted up their waves, they had lifted up their voice, and the voice of Him who made them, could alone compel them to be still. 
               How long could this continue, and the ship endure? how long ere the souls would have done with their crying? Would their terrors vanish again before the confidence of safety? or was this fear but the proper prelude of the ruin that must come? and must those exhausted frames be tossed among the waters until they were borne down into the calmness of the lower deep, helpless, in their descending, as the forsaken shells of the sea? 
               Among the passengers was one that stood firm against the assaults of terror, amid physical surrenderings. A soul erect and strong, which hour by hour through those fearful days had been strengthening for the event of which her heart had full foreboding. In the labors which fell on all, the passengers gers and ship's crew alike, she was not found wanting: and others, weak or fearful, or well nigh beside themselves with terror, when they looked upon her, and observed her calmness, drew near to her, and felt their nearness, though it was but by a step, and felt as if safety were in the calmness of her presence. Once, when the captain came and addressed a few words to her, and some of the passengers followed him, and asked when he was gone, "What does he say?" they learned the secret of her composure, for she answered, "What does God say? Let Him do what seems good in His sight." 
               To her, as to the rest, the shock of present danger had come, and as a shock it had been felt. 
               In the overwhelming moment when the facts of the world, the familiar things, the knowledge of life and all its experience, and the prospect of an earthly future, retreated before the silent, awful front of impending ETERNITY, she had endured the shock. When she looked out on the tumult of the tempest, when the heaven and the ocean came into each other's stormy embrace, to the ruin of all impeding things, she had listened to the shrieking wind and roaring waters, to the creaking ship, and supplicating cries, which now and then went up, shrill, full of demands, as if to pierce the ear of a god who had gone on a journey, or was sleeping, unmindful of all the helplessness of their condition; she had said to herself, "Death is at hand;" and caught by her own utterance, she had repeated the assurance to herself, until she had grown calm, and ready to await the issue. 
               There was no room for self-deceiving here; no opportunity for delusion;-her senses were the surety of the fate that awaited her. The creaking planks, the broken ship, and that great storm wind, not by a tone abated, the tempest in its strength; what opportunity was there for hope? What could the utmost human wisdom, the most resolute human will do, but wait for the event? 
                
               As by one daring leap, she left the world behind her;- forth! and whither? She reasoned with herself;-it might be in the passing of a moment; or the progress of hours, that all pertaining to the present life would be sealed up with the irrecoverable past. But-"Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God." 
               There are voices of nature upon which the weak and wavering human heart in its worst hours can stay itself-to which it can revert in memory, and grow calm in spite of agitations. There are voices of revelation on which more certainly the soul can stay itself when without them heart and flesh would fail. 
               From no point of the prospect immediately before her did she shrink when once it came before her. She would not deceive herself with delusive hopes; steadily forward to the brink of death she walked, and surveyed the prospect without a shudder. She looked at the chances of a final safety, and resigned a hope that they should outride, outlive the storm. At the worst that could befall she looked, until the prospect had lost its terrors. 
               These planks, then, these shuddering quivering masts, all would be broken and afloat-soon; at the latest, soon. From moment to moment, it seemed as if the catastrophe might come. They who had grown up to the estate of man and woman, under every variety of circumstance, would be floating separated, yet together in one ruin, on the waters; tossed and driven perhaps by the monsters of the sea. And what of all this? There was something still beyond. Sharp pangs-yes, the close contact of the hissing, roaring waves-yes, the rending of nature, the flight of the spirit in an agony of struggle-aye! trembling, human nature. But then, then a deliverance. What, then, was "danger?" A word for infidels and children to tremble at. 
               I aver that, having passed through the dread astonishment of a first conception of the reality of their condition, having risen from the disappointment occasioned by the probability of frustration even in attempting her enterprise, she now stood in the tumult of the storm, mid the confusion of quailing and fainting mortals, surveying death as calmly as it ever was surveyed by any soul at ease mid the serenities of home, with the death prospect a thousand years remote-remote beyond the verge of possibilities. 
               As she stood now upon the deck, the night fast coming on, watching the black clouds above, and the darkness that was made terrible by the white lines of foam running along the edges of the waves, the captain of the ship approached her. She saw him, and that he sought her; and besides she beheld what must have escaped him, for he was a humane man, that as he made his difficult progress along the deck there were many that implored him to stop and speak to them. They had the great question of their condition yet to urge. If he did perceive them, holding still on in his course as he did, it was because there was nothing he could say to comfort them, he had no assurance to give. One common ruin waited them all, so far as their destiny was bound up in the fate of his vessel. But the lady who had come out under his charge seemed to demand some word-or, if she did not demand it, her situation did-there was something that it seemed most proper he should say to her. 
               Margaret Gladstone observed him as he came, and she both heard and saw the efforts that were made to arrest his attention, and she knew it was because she was a woman and alone, without any protector beside him, that he sought her now; for she read the expression of his face as he came so swiftly towards her, and she said instantly, before he spoke, "Captain Nye, you have come to tell me to prepare for the worst." He looked at her without speaking; there was more calmness in her mien than in his. 
                
               "I have," he said; "in such a sea as this there is no chance for hope. I know not that we shall see another day." 
               "Think no more, then, of me," she said instantly; "I am able to provide for my safety-more able than the most of these women. If I could only get about to them I think I could help them to some courage. Will you assist me." 
               "I command you to stay where you are-you could not move a step; I would not insure your life a step from here. In such a tempest you would be swept overboard in an instant. I will do all I can for them . . . but of what use is it to bolster them up with hope? You can bear the truth. This ship must go to pieces-a miracle couldn't save her-if the storm went down at once she couldn't reach the port." 
               He paused, overcome by the manifold emotions that crowded upon him as he reiterated this certainty of doom which the storm already had announced. 
               "We will drift then to the Rock of Ages-we shall not be broken upon it," said Margaret Gladstone. 
               The captain looked upon the woman, whose voice had risen clear and firm through the tumult, with such words of cheer as these. His face became calmer, even in the moment while he paused to look upon her; he caught her hand, and said hurriedly, "This is the truth; I never believed it as I do now. You at least are safe, whatever happens; but, while the ship holds together, I have something to do. I came to say to you keep where you are, until I come for you, and if you find an opportunity to bring any of these people to their senses by reminding them, as you have me, of our real safety, in God's name do it." 
               While he spoke he departed, and then Archibald Kensett came up and took his stand by Miss Gladstone-grasping, to support his steps, the rope by which she sustained herself. 
               "This is terrible," he said, for she spoke not, although she saw that he was there. She looked at him, and through the gathering darkness she could see the agitation of his face, and how it had changed in the toil and exposure of these last three hours. 
               "It is terrible," he repeated. 
               "Is it only terrible to you?" she asked, and he did not answer. "Can you not go yonder to those poor creatures and cheer them? say something to bring them to themselves-they are wild with fear, and when the crisis comes will not be able to help themselves in the least. I am sure you could help restore them to composure." 
               "What word could I say to them, Miss Gladstone?" 
               "That which is sufficient to sustain your own soul in this hour. Remind them that this could not happen if God chose to prevent it. Can they not trust themselves in His hands?" 
               "How calm you are!" Kensett grasped Miss Gladstone's hand with admiration; with more than admiration: his voice betrayed the feeling of his heart. She knew how his soul was stirred within him; she remembered his words in the past days. His aspect verified her thoughts of him. 
               "Be you calm also," said she, in a firm and steady tone, that told the lofty height on which her spirit stood, above all that surrounded her, calm, safe and well assured-"as you believe in God, trust in Him-say 'even as thou wilt'-can you not? Forget all this that can have power only over your mortal being." 
               "My mortal being," he repeated; "what are we? Whither do we go? . . . . To be suddenly cut short, and nothing done. Nothing even attempted! To fall here, and never to be heard of again. This storm over perhaps by day break-but we, Miss Gladstone, where shall we be?-Not here-where?" 
               There was no need, no possibility of his concealing the excitement he felt-yet there was no faltering in his voice-it was but broken by the wind: the excitement was not so much of terror as the appalling and dire necessity of settling in a moment a question which he had managed to leave unsettled settled until now. To him she replied with a calmness that would fain have communicated itself to his spirit: 
               "With God-and better than on this earth, if it be His will." 
               "You have then no disappointment? You do not feel that these winds and waves have dealt very treacherously with you? that they are robbing you of your right to a career of usefulness?" 
               "I know how much I leave-I am disappointed-but I know at whose command I go, and I rejoice." 
               "Better to say it here than never; I will not at least go with a lie in my mouth. Miss Gladstone, it is all a profound deep of darkness before me. I will not get up a bit of sentiment or feeling at a moment's notice. I fear this event, not this storm; I know not what to hope for it, nor how." 
               She did not say to him that these were strange words to be speaking at an hour like this, when destruction was at hand, and no escape; but she said, staying not to choose her words, nor striving in any way to modify the truth as it appeared to her mind: 
               "If you have loved evil more than good, and sought to do evil because you loved it, there is nothing I can now say to you. But if, as that crucified one, you see even at this hour that you have been ignorant and blind, yes, even as the brutes, without the knowledge or the fear of your Maker; if another image rises before you at this time, and you feel in your heart its truth, and loveliness, and you would adore it as God your Saviour, you may. There is nothing to hinder, except yourself. If, at this moment, you can perceive that you have gone all astray, and that the time in which you have not had. Him for your master has been wasted in a vain service; if your heart feels any impulse of repentance or love, that is strong enough to how yourself before your Redeemer, your Redeemer is here to receive you." 
               "I am ashamed to present myself before Him." 
                
               "Shame befits you; but you are before Him for judgment, continually. But the time is short. Consider-a day with the Lord is as a thousand years." 
               "I am afraid of myself. I could not deceive Him. I would not deceive myself. Who knows that what I feel is anything beside a coward's apprehension of what may be hereafter, or at best the contagious effect of your example? If I come to God to tell Him that I fear Him, yet I can take my life to witness I never was accounted a coward." 
               "You will not so come to Him. But if you are aware that you would come, and are yet so proud as to feel ashamed to come-" 
               "That is it!" exclaimed Kensett, interrupting her. "To beg, I am ashamed." 
               "Be quick! Why?" 
               "Because I might have yielded the homage of a son!" 
               "Tell me, then, does this grieve you?" 
               "I dare not decide. If I dared to think I was not deceiving myself, I would say yes, it does grieve me." 
               "Why, young man?" 
               "Because all things are His, and I am but a breath of His life, poisoned!" 
               "God be thanked! God be praised! If you feel this, fear not. If now you are ashamed to ask the forgiveness and the grace of God, put yourself out of the question, and ask for the sake of Jesus Christ; if you perceive in Him any grace or any beauty to be desired, pray to Him-He will give what He alone has to give." 
               Swift were her words and strong, and like a heavenly cordial. 
               "The sound of your voice even calms and assures me," said Kensett, "for you believe what you say. I will believe it. I had no purpose to serve Him. I never thought of doing so. But before this storm arose you had made me think-your life seemed to assure me that we were sent for this to earth. To find our best good and happiness in serving Him." 
               He hesitated a moment, and Miss Gladstone exclaimed: 
               "It is the truest thing that can be said of human life! In the few moments that are left, go and serve your fellows in endeavoring to give them this same assurance." 
               He hesitated a moment longer. 
               "We shall be separated, then. But our chance for life may not be lost. Let me first make some preparation for you, that-" 
               "I am already prepared. Go at once, or you will be too late." 
               There was such command in her voice as Archibald Kensett at another time would not have attempted to resist; but now he stayed a moment to say: 
               "I wish you to know that if I survive this storm my life shall not be an idle one. I wish you to be my witness that in this world I vowed my life to the Lord, and did confess Him. And I know it is not fear that makes me say it. I will go as you bid me." 
               "And tell those women from me to be still, and trust in the Lord Jehovah, in whom is everlasting strength." 
               As Kensett stepped forward, he again took her hand, and she, drawing him near to her, folded him a moment in her arms-"The Lord bless you," she said; "the Lord go with you. The Lord preserve you on the earth for His own pleasure. Let the winds blow, and the waves roar, and the ship perish, but struggle for your life when the time comes, and remember how often He has been the saving help of His people." 
               The next moment she was alone. 
                
               Kensett made his way from her slowly, and with difficulty, yet with all the speed he might, to the place where a number of men, women and children were huddled together. Gathered there in the shadow of death, and aware of their doom, they yet looked up demanding of the new-comer a new assurance; but he stood among them with another purpose than to inspire any false hope; to lift up their hearts, and strengthen them while the certainties of destruction alone could be discerned. When he told them that he came from the lady whose heroic courage had been a matter of astonishment to as many as could be mindful of anything beyond their own danger, there were some whom his words had the effect to recover from their overthrow-some to whom his courage restored their lost faith, and trust, and resignation. 
               But time stayed not for his speaking; the moment was advancing, was by no effort, by no appeal delayed, when the blast of the tempest should be the blast of the destroyer. The utmost extremity of cowardice and terror could alone cling to hope now. Amid the shrieks and confusion with which the life-boats were launched and filled, comment most strange on the faith that had come forth seeking for freedom, now that the truest freedom seemed in store for it! there were some souls beside those of which we have made mention that stood strong and firm. In the failure of all hope of safety, they had cast anchor on the eternity towards which they hastened, and were safe. Their souls were delivered, though with but few exceptions their bodies went down to the shadow of death. 
               Some of those who crowded into the life-boat were ultimately saved. But with these we have, as we have had, nothing to do. Rather look we to the figure, that, clinging to the mast-to which in his last service the captain had bound her-in the instinct of self-preservation, and through all excitement, with a sense of religious obligation quite as strong as love of life, that prompted her in this extremity to do all in her power to secure her safety-for she was alone now in a deserted part of the ship-there was Margaret Gladstone; there, on the wide sea. 
               A day and a night she drifted and dashed at the will of the waves, until she lost her consciousness; but she did not even then lose her hold on the spar to which, when the vessel broke asunder, she clung. Her life was in her hand, and as a sacred, precious thing, she carried it, until thought and will failed her-then she was borne along with it. 
             
             
                
               V. THE ARRIVAL. 
               ON the second day after the Pilgrim went down, when Margaret Gladstone's consciousness returned, she found herself lying on the beach of a strange coast alone, and no other form, living or dead, in sight. 
               It was noon-day, the sun shining, the sea calm. She heard the land birds singing as they flew along the beach. She felt the warmth and silence of the day; high it arched above the horror of her recollection. She closed her eyes again, to shut out the dreadful vision which these bright rolling waves presented to her mind. But though she closed them with a shudder, so vividly was all through which she had passed brought back to recollection, that again they opened, for they had to do with the light of day; and the powers which had been preserved, must be lifted up above the sea-weed, and given to their use. 
               Slowly she arose. And in that rising was a triumph of spirit over flesh; for, were it not for the resolute energy of the spirit, those swollen, wounded, fainting limbs, could never again have performed their office. 
               Had she alone escaped? Along the beach, far as her eyes could see, there was no other token of the storm that had thrown her upon this unknown shore. Before her was the ocean, and the long line of white sand, fearful in its barrenness, spreading to the right hand and the left; inland, beyond the beach, the land ran high. She must go up if she would discern further. Climbing this elevation among the rocks she went, dizzy, faint, but resolute. And behold, the mainland gained, before her eyes a track of wagon wheels, and horse hoofs, the solitary imprint and evidence of human life around. 
               Perrine Saltonstall had been down to the sea beach with his daughter Maud not long before, for a load of sea-shells and marine deposit, wherewith to make experiment in agriculture. You remember the occasion. 
               There was no room for doubt here as to the course she should pursue. This solitary track was before her, leading toward a thicket of pines, whose extent, from her stand point, she could not even conjecture. There was no time or strength to be lost in emotion of any sort. Margaret paused to make no question of herself-no expression of rejoicing, not a solitary prayer escaped her. She was aware of but one impulse, and that was to walk in the path before her. 
               All the day long she followed that solitary track with slow and painful steps; the wild berries she gathered by the way were her only refreshment. She walked by instinct rather than by reason, as one goes in a dream. The wind rustled through the pines, but she did not hear it; the sun shone warm and bright at intervals through the wooded path; she did not heed it. She did not see the wild flower growing in the shade, nor the little stream that slid along its bed of moss and stone toward the sea. The birds of the strange land sang from their nests in the branches, or as they went on their swift journeys of business and of pleasure-she heard them not. She took her weary self along the wagon track, and had no eye or sense for anything beside. If there were dangers by the way, she thought not of them; only to keep in the path that wound amongst the shadows of the wood, or across the rough open plain on which the sun beat fiercely, this was her only care. 
                
               Not until nightfall did she come within sight of Perrine Saltonstall's farm house. That sight, instead of strengthening her for new exertions, robbed her of the little energy that remained. She could go no further; that shelter opening near dispossessed her of the fortitude with which she had borne, without a groan, the unutterable weariness of the way. 
               She had reached a slight ascent, just where the road turned, when she caught sight of the walls of that human habitation, and there she fell; and where she fell, in the shade of a tree, in sight of that dwelling, she remained through the long night; wakeful through its hours, in spite of her exhaustion, as though she should never know sleep again. 
               And now, for the first time since she wakened on the beach, the thought of what all the past days had wrought for others and herself thrust itself upon her, and would not be kept back. The peacefulness of the scene and of the night, tranquil as though never startled by the breath of storm, was torture to her. Soft and tremulous shone the stars; the breeze that had tempered the heat of the day had gone down with the sun, but the stillness was not dead; there were insects that chirped all the night, and a bird in the branches over her head sung frequent snatches of song in the pauses of its sleep, or it might be, in its dreams. 
               How should she sleep? or how but retrace, point by point, again, and again, and again, all the record of the storm and shipwreck, calling on imagination to fill out the picture where memory had nothing to report? Where were they all who had been parted from each other in the darkness of that night when the ship went down? Oh those shrieks, and the tossing waves, and the weak human lives, fluttering like leaves among the billows! Where was Archibald Kensett, and the captain of the ship? Where the women and the children, the seamen, the men of strength and pride, the godly, and the adventurous? 
               Where were they all? Lying calm and peaceful among the untroubled depths, rocked and rent no longer, or tossing still among the billows, or stealing away in the boats which the strongest had set loose from the doomed ship in the frenzy of their love of life! Where were they all? It was agony to dwell upon these thoughts, but they held her by their power. Continually they returned upon her, and the exultation of the trust, which had sustained her when the disaster was impending, was obscured by the present recollection. In her present condition, exhausted, given over to the sway of these dread thoughts, hindered by the darkness from pursuing her path-for there was no rest for her here-she could do nothing but recall, and there was nothing but the horrible in her remembrances. At length she broke desperately away from them by an effort, and with a result that was an ample test of her spiritual strength. She stood up from the ground where she had lain, and looked upon the heavens, she bowed herself upon the earth, and, for the first time since she came to land, her thoughts took the shape of prayer-and while she prayed her faith recovered its lost energy, and that prayer had no end until the morning came. 
               With the dawn she again set out on her way. 
             
             
                
               VI. THE MEETING. 
               BY break of day the little family of the farm house was astir, and Maud out looking for the cow. By break of day Margaret Gladstone rose to resume her way in the path that led to her deliverance. 
               Familiar as were Maud's eyes with the wide stretch of country spreading towards each point of the horizon, from the slight ascent on which the farm house stood, quick as they were in observation, it was impossible that so strange a sight as an unknown human figure should come within their range of sight and searching vision, and she remain unaware of it. But the figure did not at once come within their range, for Maud's eyes were not upon the earth; mystery and freedom were in the dominion above, and her thoughts were there, with the birds who swept to and fro, and her imagination sailed upon the resplendent clouds above them. She was also thinking of the coast, and of the probabilities of her return to it. 
               It was not till she came within a dozen paces of Margaret Gladstone that she beheld her. With that sight, half comprehended as it was, her song ceased, her thoughts came down to earth, returned from their far voyage; a wonder and curiosity, so intense that it might easily have been misconstrued into fright, possessed her. In her uncertainty she stood, as if irresolute whether to fly or to advance. Her sudden pause had the effect to produce this explanation in Miss Gladstone's mind, and she lifted her hand and motioned to Maud. 
               If there had been a purpose of flight, this movement, which had in it all the force of supplication, quite unsettled it. Maud had been trained to the development of spiritual as well as bodily strength, and, after a momentary hesitation, she walked on courageously towards the strange object, that seemed to have risen from the ground, so suddenly it appeared before her, and so strange was its appearing. Figure like this, towards which she each instant advanced, though with uncertain purpose, Maud had never seen before. Extremity like this was so far beyond her imagination that she could not in the least degree apprehend it. She had never seen so pale a face-so strange a form; whence came it? and wherefore was it here? The mystery was inexplicable. In her wonderment she knew not how to frame a question, but stood gazing in silence on the figure that leaned against the great oak, among whose topmast branches Maud Saltonstall had so many times found a cradle for the wind to rock. Then spoke the stranger: 
               "Is any one living near that will help me? I have been shipwrecked. Is there a house near?" So a ship had come in! 
               "Our house is near. I can help you," said Maud, assured by the voice, and she came nearer, full of her hospitable intent. 
               As she did so Miss Gladstone attempted to rise, but having risen she could do no more; before she expressed her inability Maud had perceived it. Without a word she turned quickly away and ran towards the house. It seemed not a moment when she appeared again in the path from which for an instant she had disappeared; she was now leading a horse by the mane, without saddle or bridle-and this was Lady Jane. 
               "Lady Jane will carry you," she said: "down, Lady Jane;" and, like a well-trained servitor, down went the Lady on her knees. "Come," invited Maud; "you have but to sit firm and she would carry you all day. She never gets tired-she is mine-she never works in the field-I will lead her." 
               All these assurances were spoken while Miss Gladstone took her place on the back of the willing steed, and, when they were ready to start, Maud Saltonstall led Lady Jane. But she had gone only a few steps when she stopped the horse and approached the rider, and with a spring placed herself behind her, and with one arm encircling the stranger, the other clinging to the mane, she urged the horse on rapidly. Something in the face of Margaret, deadly fatigue, or fear, or mortal illness, led her to do this, for Maud saw that no time was to be lost in bringing her to a place of shelter. 
               Abigail Saltonstall was standing by the gate, her milk pail at her feet, when they rode up. She had come to look for Maud. Past her rode her daughter, but as she went she said, "Come in, mother, here is some one from the sea, dying, or dead." There was great alarm in Maud's voice as she spoke, and not without cause, for the sudden sense of safety had been too much for Margaret Gladstone; she had lost her consciousness, and lay fainting against Maud, as the girl rode through the gate and hailed her mother. 
             
             
                
               VII. THE AWAKING-THE BEQUEST. 
               ON the bed, in Maud's room, to which she was carried by Mrs. Saltonstall and Maud, the lady lingered day after day, until nearly a week had passed. 
               The exposure and consequent exhaustion from which she suffered, had occasioned a total prostration of physical energy; she needed all the rest and quiet she found there for her restoration. 
               The fascinations of a present mystery grew on Maud's imagination without hindrance now. She forgot about the sea side and the ships; there was something here: she was a constant attendant on this sick chamber. Gladly she surrendered the joy of the out-door life for the shadows and quiet of the room, that was so suddenly and strangely transformed by its new occupant from the place where she had dreamed by night, year after year, to the scene of far more extravagant dreaming by day. 
               To the few words that passed now and then between her mother and the stranger, she listened as children do to tales of fairy. While at her work her thoughts were still upon that mystery in her chamber; but rare were the words, and unsatisfying as few, that were spoken by her mother on that topic when Maud was alone with her. Abigail had seen women before now. 
               So Maud could only long-and how she longed!-for the invalid's recovery, for the time to come when the shadows should be swept out of the room, the freshness, fragrance, and delight of daylight take their place. And while she waited for this time to come, she arranged in her own mind all the conversations that should take place between them; and, with an ever increasing impatience, she anticipated the response to her ever lengthening interrogative. 
               The desires of her imagination were at length to be answered to the full. 
               One evening, after sunset, when she went into the chamber, and sat down by the window, whose shutter was closed, and before which the curtain was drawn to the effectual exclusion of light, Miss Gladstone heard her as she crossed the floor, and in the silence that succeeded, said: 
               "Are you there, dear child?" 
               Now this was the first time that her coming had been noticed in this manner, and Maud's heart beat violently; her face flushed to hear the question, to hear the voice. Instead of answering from across the room, she rose up quickly, and walked up to the bedside; she would be felt there, as well as heard. It was not so dark but Maud could see that the lady half rose in her bed as she came near, and the voice that now spoke seemed to enfold her as a loving embrace. 
               "Is it a pleasant evening, Maud? I know it is. I heard you singing with the birds. Come, tell me about them, and Lady Jane, and yourself." 
               "The sun has gone down. The sky was splendid with clouds. They are mostly gone now, and it is getting dark; but do you want to see?" answered Maud eagerly. Not a moment was to be lost in the reception of this moment. 
               "Yes, dear child." 
               Maud flew to the window; she threw open the blinds; she lifted the curtain to the top of the window, so that whatever of daylight remained might come into the room without hindrance. 
                
               "If you could only sit by the window," she said, looking down from the chair on which she stood for lifting the curtain; "you cannot see there. We have the new moon tonight, and a star just beside it." 
               "And are the clouds all gone?" 
               Miss Gladstone had raised herself in the bed, and was looking, not through the window, but at the noble face of Maud-looking with an admiration which, to Maud's apprehension, was nothing more than kindliness, and she hastened again to the bedside. 
               "There are no clouds," she said; "it is all blue. You can see forever!" 
               "I feel that. I feel it must be beautiful here. In the morning I will see. I will begin the world once more," said Margaret. 
               The last words were spoken in a low tone, that had more of resignation than despondency in it. 
               "But why have I not heard you sing before?" 
               "I was afraid to disturb you. I went away from the house to sing when I couldn't help it." 
               "It would not have disturbed me. I would like to hear you sing again." 
               "I only sing out of doors. I could not sing-for you." 
               "And why? What I heard was very sweet. Did you not sing it for me?" 
               "Never for any one did I sing," said Maud seriously. "Sometime when we are out of doors I will try. But I can only when I must." 
               "If any one that loved you asked to hear you, would not that be like a must to you?" 
               Wonderingly Maud listened to the question, and with a new delight that thrilled her, she felt the lady's hand rest gently on her head, and curiously she looked at the questioner. When she answered: 
                
               "I do not know." There was sufficient perplexity in her voice to convince Margaret of her sincerity. 
               "I hope it will be so: I hope it will be very often so," said Miss Gladstone, stroking the glossy locks of Maud's hair back from her fine forehead, and looking softly down upon the girl. 
               An honest, open glance returned that look. Maud smiled; but not content with that, said outright: 
               "I feel very often that I must. Oftener than I used; oftener than before you came. Maybe you can sing too! I'm sure you can-surer than about mother. I am so glad you are here! As soon as spring comes I am like the birds; I am so happy when they come back, the winters are so long. No one is happier than I to see them. Oh, you don't know how I love music." 
               Margaret Gladstone smiled at that, but spoke no contradiction; and she loved the girl, hearing her speak these words-loved her for music's sake. 
               "It is like a dear friend to you I think," she said. 
               "A friend? Oh, yes; I should think so." 
               "You tell her your secrets, and music tells you hers." 
               A bright smile crossed Maud's face at this explanation. 
               "Yes; it is so," she responded. "Things I did not know before it tells me sometimes. Oh, how did you know it?" 
               "I hope that I may hear them some day." 
               "Could you understand?" asked Maud earnestly. She not only spoke the question, her eyes repeated it still more urgently. 
               "I think I could," answered Miss Gladstone, in her clear, sweet voice. 
               "I think you could. It is different from the birds. I have words to my songs." 
               This she said ingenuously, by way of information. Her way of saying it revealed the way in which this life was developing veloping, by the force of its innate power, without any, the least, knowledge or help of the world. 
               "May I hear the words too, if I happen to be with you when you feel that you must sing?" 
               Maud bowed her assent, she did not also give it outright; she seemed to be so far in doubt as this, she would not commit herself by an utterance. 
               While they were thus speaking Abigail came into the room. When the girl saw her mother she seemed inclined to go away, but Miss Gladstone held her fast, though without giving other evidence of her knowledge of Maud's purpose, while, looking at Abigail Saltonstall, she said: 
               "Your bird has been singing for me to-night. She entices me forth with the promise that I shall hear her sing in the open air. She tells me, too, of the pleasant evening. Tomorrow I must rise, and as soon after as possible be going; I have trespassed too long on your hospitality." 
               This was the first time that the stranger had spoken so directly of her departure to Mrs. Saltonstall. On no subject had they conversed much together. Abigail had been occupied even more than seemed needful with her household concerns, and in labors for the comfort of her guest; but she had meantime made a full observation and study of Miss Gladstone, and had seemed rather solicitous than otherwise that Maud should always be in waiting, ready to attend to the invalid's wants. For this there was a reason. It did not escape her notice that Maud had brought herself near to the stranger's heart, that Maud's going to and from that chamber were notable events in the day to Miss Gladstone, and to the child as well. Abigail watched, and knew the language of the eyes that beamed upon her child. And in the mother's heart a plan and purpose grew. 
               When, therefore, Miss Gladstone spoke of her returning strength, and the necessity it involved of a speedy departure, in the few dissuasive words uttered by Abigail there was not so much to arrest the attention, as there was in the glancing of her eyes from the lady to her Maud. 
               The glance was not unobserved of Miss Gladstone-inexplicable it was at the time, but it had an after interpretation; for, later in the evening, when Maud was buried in thoughts about what Miss Gladstone had spoken, and uneasily tossing on her bed reflected on that departure, Mrs. Saltonstall returned to Miss Gladstone, and sitting down beside her-a thing she rarely did-said to her guest, speaking rapidly, and with an emphasis which revealed her excitement as well as her resolution: 
               "It is so long since I have known any sort of emotion, I have been thinking of you with a sort of wonder. How must those fearful scenes you passed through contrast with such quiet as this?" 
               "Terrible beyond telling, that passage was," said Margaret Gladstone with a shudder. "And yet, can you believe it, since I have lain here in this quiet I have been able, at least once or twice, to lose a sense of everything except the sublimity of the experience. I have felt as if exonerated from all relations, and could think what it was to stand strong as a rock, trusting in God-trusting, not that He would save, but that He would do with me as seemed best to Him. I assure you I would not be without the knowledge so acquired. I have been thrown in a strange state of helplessness on a strange land. But the fact that He to whom I committed myself, has seen fit to bring me this way and not another, does not disconcert me. I did not think that this could be. I know now that I did not. I am quite certain, however, that I am safe in His hands." 
               Abigail, who had no comment to make upon this confession of faith, because she knew nothing of it, spoke presently of the port for which Miss Gladstone had sailed, and the question implied an interrogatory to which the lady replied that she had come out with the intention of fulfilling an engagement ment there as the teacher of a school. Some questions and responses thereupon followed as to the manner in which this port might be gained, succeeded by a repetition of Miss Gladstone's statement that she must resume her journey as speedily as possible. 
               "It is important for many reasons," she said, "that I should lose no time in getting off-I have already been too long a tax upon you." 
               To which, with evident satisfaction that the conversation had reached this point, a satisfaction betrayed by the eagerness of her speaking, Abigail replied: 
               "Say not that; your coming here has been the greatest blessing that could happen to us-to my child especially. Whether you listen to the request I have now to make or not, I beg you will consider that what I say is true." 
               Miss Gladstone had nothing to do but to bend her eyes attentively on her hostess; but in the glance there was nothing of a disconcerting curiosity, though had there been any amount of curiosity it would not in this instance have disconcerted Abigail, so intent was she on what she had to say. 
               "You will, doubtless, consider it a very strange request," said she, hurriedly, yet endeavoring to control her voice, and to speak with customary composure. "Think it over in your mind, if it strikes you unpleasantly at first. I have observed that my daughter, who has lived here without any society except that of her father and myself, has attached herself to you. She delights in being near you. She has no higher pleasure than to serve you. I have observed her attentively, for she has changed greatly since you came. She has exhibited some quite new traits of character whose existence I had not suspected. I have nothing to offer you in the way of compensation for your care, but I can give herself to you, with what, for years at least, will make her dependent on you only for protection. If you will take her, you may have her! . . . You may have her to do with as you choose. . . . The faith of which I think you have given such sublime evidence in your calamity, though it may be something beyond my sympathy, gives me at least unlimited confidence in you, though whether you have made your religion what it is, or whether it has made you what you are, may not be all clear to me. I think Maud would not be a trouble to you; she would very soon be a help, I know. Make her whatever you choose, only let her have an education. She must have that, wherever she is. It is her right. I have no friends to whom I can send her. We are strangers in this country. She will be unhappy if her nature be undeveloped, especially since you have been here. She has always been contented here, but she will not be when you are gone. And I can do no better thing for her than send her away with you. Because I love her I would give her to you. She will be better off in your hands than in mine. I am willing to let her go with the prospect of never seeing her face again. We can do nothing for her here, except keep her out of the world, and she seems born to live in it." 
               The sadness, and yet the resolution of the woman as she spoke, both made themselves perceptible to Margaret Gladstone, who listened in silence during this explanation of the mother's wish. There was no trace of hasty thinking or impulsive feeling in her reply. 
               "Your daughter is not a common child, and I love her. But this is a strange thing that you propose. Your confidence in me is remarkable. I say so plainly, for I would understand you clearly, and perhaps I do not." 
               "You know of whom I am speaking," said Abigail. 
               "Perfectly," answered Margaret, with a smile. 
               "I wish to give my child to you." 
               "While you clearly understand the precarious state of my fortunes? I repeat that I have nothing. Barely enough to reach my journey's end. I started on my voyage with my fortune in my hands. . . . I have lost everything but the sum of money secured to my person. In all sincerity I dare not think of involving another life, especially that of a young girl, in my fate." 
               "Maud shall share your fortunes, you hers," said Mrs. Saltonstall promptly, prepared to meet every objection, to remove every difficulty. "I have a portion for her which I laid by for her use long ago. She shall not be an incumbrance to you in that way at once, and never, I hope. If I had wealth I should choose rather that she should share your poverty than my riches. I wish her to live nobly: she is capable of that; more capable than the most of people. . . . I cannot teach her your faith, never having learned it for myself. A faith I have, but it is not like yours. I fear it has adapted itself to my condition, instead of my condition adapting itself to it. That is of no consequence here. You have shown me there is a difference. There is a difference between your serenity and mine; there is all the difference, I find, between a quiet winter and a calm summer sky. The Judge of all may find some palliation for a character that has been too much moulded by circumstances. I do not wish to make excuse for myself; but since I have seen you I have thought that I would prefer to have my daughter grow up under your care rather than mine." 
               There was a pause when she had said this. Miss Gladstone's eyes bent upon the speaker, who returned the glance not with an equal serenity, but with a stern composure. Fain would she speak composedly, but there ran through the tone of voice an entreaty so earnest, that though her countenance did not change while she spoke, the heart of Miss Gladstone could not escape its control, and she said-what else could she say?- 
               "Will you compel me to receive her? As the gift of God then it must be; I am not at liberty to refuse, I cannot forget her care and yours; I owe my life to your kindness. But understand me; it is a responsibility which I do not lightly, nor-how shall I say it?-even willingly incur. I feel I am not equal to it; I shall feel it more and more. I have no relation with whom I could leave her in trust for you, in case of my death. I think that I could love her well: I think she might be much to me; she is a girl of promise. Her spirits are buoyant, and her dispositions, so far as I know them, are good. She has been a pleasant companion during the past week. I shall be responsible to Providence for my treatment of her; of that I am aware. I can give no better security than lies in this solemn assurance. But do not misapprehend me. If it seemed the will of God I should feel easier in my mind if I went unburdened by this precious care. You will understand me-it is an unnatural one to me; I may prove quite unequal to it." 
               "And you will understand me, when, after what you have now said, I still urge it. Only take her; I will trust you." 
               "But have you taken everything into consideration? Forgive me; I cannot easily see how all this has happened." 
               "I have thought it over from beginning to end many times. I have come to my conclusion so deliberately that there is no reason to suppose that there will be a change in my feelings in this matter. I can trace in Maud many resemblances to myself as I was at her age. She is losing everything here; losing what I did not find elsewhere, and what she will, under you. She is adapted to the enjoyment of the best the world can give. But she knows nothing of this. I cannot think of her remaining here always; I mean it will not be possible for her to do so. Why, then, should we neglect to do for her the best that can be done? We may not have another opportunity; we shall not have one like this." 
               "Her father of course has given his consent," said Margaret, by no means well assured of what she seemed to have taken for granted. "Is he not fond of his daughter? I am not curious, but it seems proper that I should know." 
               "So fond of her that he would cheerfully consent to anything thing that should seem to her advantage. He and I have learned some bitter lessons in our life. We had need to learn them; to set little value on our own opinions and desires, so far as they have reference merely to ourselves. It is of small consequence what pleases, or displeases us; but with Maud we feel the difference." 
               Then, said Margaret Gladstone, with an impressiveness of voice and gesture that were not without effect: 
               "You are hardly older than I. I would that I could persuade you back to the world. You adorned it once, I am certain. The isolation of this place must wear on your spirits; it must exceedingly depress you." 
               Perceiving that her words were working towards some result, she went on still more earnestly: 
               "If there were any pleasing scenery here, or anything in domestic labor, or social life, to give one even occasional elevation and aliment, I should not be so surprised to find you here. But I think it is not good for you to be so alone. You wrong yourself by remaining in such a solitude as this; it must occasion mental hurt. It is one of the lessons we have need to learn thoroughly, that to exclude ourselves from the society of others, and restrict ourselves to only saddening views of life, is as much a sin against God, and against ourselves, as one would be guilty of who should deprive himself of sight, or the use of his limbs, which are talents immediately ours, but more absolutely God's, and buried, or worse, when not employed for Him in acts and expressions of sympathy for those around us." 
               To this Abigail replied: 
               "You will know something of our history-very well. We purchased this farm not knowing its locality. We were disappointed in it on some accounts; but the region suited us. I think I am now beyond the possibility of being wronged by nature, or society; not, however, entirely on account of this secluded situation. . . . . . The time is not so heavy as you think. We have books for winter, and for the summer the farm is sufficient. We do not feel the time as we did; it was heavy at first. But we could not have been happy anywhere. We are not what we were-we are both different. . . . . . Perrine and I are changed. We shall remain here, I think, while we live, but if our child goes with you there must be no return. If she goes, it is to forget all she can of what she leaves behind-to learn what she can from what lies before." 
               The voice of Abigail while she spoke these words, was mournful and low, but firm was its speech. Miss Gladstone involuntarily listened to it as to the sobbing of a broken heart, that has no hope for itself in this life, and barely strength of faith sufficient to look forward to a better. 
               To soothe this unknown trouble she made no effort; it clearly was not hers to cheer this wreck of being which the imprisoned spirit had so worn. Before she made any answer Abigail continued: 
               "Think of it. I will not disturb you any longer. Good night." Mrs. Saltonstall had risen, and made her way from the room by the time these words were fairly spoken. 
               Margaret Gladstone did not attempt to stop her as she went; but the amazement in which she prepared to pass the night was greater than the reader's can be, on account of this petition to which she had hearkened. 
             
             
                
               VIII. MAUD'S PRAYER. 
               IT was truly Maud, who, of the household, was most attracted and won by the presence of Miss Gladstone. And her mother's eyes had discerned the truth. The use to which she had applied what she discerned, we have seen in the last chapter. 
               When Maud left the bedside of her new friend she did not go out to forget speedily all that had been said to her. In her heart she said again and again what she had said to Miss Gladstone-she was so happy that the lady had come, and that she remained with them. But now, while she was alone and repeating this satisfaction to herself, the thought flashed upon her that this house was not the lady's home; would she go away, then? and whither, when, and how? 
               Thus instantly it was that Maud Saltonstall felt herself arrayed against a new mystery-standing close against and opposed to the future. What was the world, and where? And would Miss Gladstone indeed leave them for it? And what would then become of her? 
               Maud Saltonstall had been condemned, by the course of her life, and her surroundings, to more solitary musing than was quite good for her. She had the heart to feel it and the will to avoid it, when avoidance became possible, as now. Consequently, when, long after she had gone to bed, her brain awakened, minute by minute, to more intense activity, instead of beating the air in striving to possess herself of all the facts involved in that one fact of Miss Gladstone's intended departure, she arose from her bed and went down to the room below, and passed in and up to the oracle she sought; and she said straightway-for the outstretched hand told her that Miss Gladstone was awake, even before her voice said-"Maud." 
               "I am thinking all the time what will I do if you go away, as you said." 
               "Sit here-lie down here beside me," said Miss Gladstone, and with her arm encircling Maud she drew her to her bosom, and whispered, "Maud, what would you do?" 
               The girl's eyes closed at this interrogatory, and Margaret Gladstone saw the tears that struggled through the closed lids, and ran down her cheek. 
               "What would you do?" she asked again, more softly-more encouragingly. 
               Then, as if breaking away from some dark influence, and yet not strong in herself, for she drew yet nearer her questioner, Maud said: 
               "I don't like to think about it. You are not going yet?" 
               "Soon, I think. But I cannot tell you how soon. It may be any day now-any day that your father can find it convenient to take me to the port. I am so well that I think I should be equal to the journey almost any time." 
               "I-I-I wish you had never come then!" exclaimed Maud, passionately, and freeing herself with a strong, quick motion, from the encircling arm. 
               "Would you have had me die in the storm?" asked Margaret. 
               "You were willing to; and then it would have been all the same here with us. It never will be again!" 
               "Oh that is cruel, it grieves me to hear you speaking so. Can you not see it would be a great grief to me if I caused you any pain?" 
                
               "It's cruel for me too; and I am grieved. I'm grieved to death almost. When you are gone I shall be glad if I do die, as I think I shall. I tried and tried to think about it up stairs, but I could not; and now I can, and I never shall stop thinking . . . . What is it you are going to do? Where is it you are going?" 
               "I am going away to teach a school." 
               "A school? What is that? I do not know what you mean." 
               "I will tell you then," said Margaret, soothingly. "I shall have a large room, and a number of young girls will come to me, and stay, perhaps, six hours of the day; and I shall have them learn out of books, and what they learn they will recite to me. I am to be a teacher." 
               "Fairies can do wonderful things, and spirits can; I wish you were a spirit," was Maud's response. 
               "What should I do for you then?" 
               "I know what you would say, and how you would look, if I told you," said Maud, turning her head on the pillow, as if to hide her face from the anticipated look that would follow the confession that must come. 
               "Tell me how I would look, and what I would say; perhaps I shall be able to guess the rest." 
               "You would look sorry; and then I should be ashamed, and afraid to look you in the face as long as you stayed. It would make me cry, too. You would say I was wicked and cruel, and an unnatural child." Here she paused: but Miss Gladstone was silent, and Maud had not finished all she had to tell-for now she closed her eyes again, and in a low tone, but not a whisper, said, "I should almost die of grief to leave them; but if you go away, I shall go with you, or-" and this was said with a spirit of determination that would have surprised whatever hearer-"I shall run away, and no body will know then what has become of me-and I shall fall down somewhere on the way, perhaps; but somebody will pick me up again, as we did you-or as the Samaritan did the traveller; and if not, it will be all the better." 
               "Are you so curious, so eager, so dissatisfied?" said Miss Gladstone, her voice by no means expressing her amazement, at what she had heard, but even colder-toned than usual. 
               "Not so curious," said Maud; "but you have explained so many things to me since you have been here-things that troubled me before. You don't know what I mean, but I know. I love my mother-dearly-but it seems so strange, everything does. It had begun to seem so to me before you came-it seems stranger since. I knew what I wanted, after you were in the house. Sometimes, when I was younger, once in a great while, she has let me look in her boxes where she keeps some of her things. We used to look them over together when I was younger, but lately not. We used to talk more to each other than we do now. Sometimes I felt as if I was changed, and changing all the while-and as if she changed-but I couldn't understand it. But when I thought so, I used to get out Lady Jane and ride, as fast as the wind, down to the beach, or any where. I had just the same feeling up stairs to-night, but I never thought of Lady Jane, but of you. It would have done no good to ride. My mother was different from what you think. I remember in those boxes were some flowers, white roses and red roses; she used to wear them in her hair; and a beautiful white dress, which was her wedding dress, I think-and some ornaments; rings for her ears and fingers, so curious, and brooches, and a necklace. I never saw her wear them. She brought them from her other home, she said. But she never told me anything more about it. Sometimes I have seen her look as elegant as you, but different-not lately though. She has changed since I can remember. She didn't use to smoke . . . . but I don't know that she has since you came. If you will let me bring the light here, and a book, I'll show you what I think of when I think about her, and maybe you'll understand it better." 
               Before Miss Gladstone could reply Maud had slipped from the bed and crossed the room, and was on her way back with the lamp that had stood burning on a shelf in the corner; she brought with her a book that contained some very well executed sketches of natural scenery. 
               Miss Gladstone took the light, and the book opened of itself, as it lay on the palm of Maud's hand, at a frowning picture of stern unlovely rocks, yellow and bare, only the highest peak of which stood in the light. 
               "She is up there, but I am down here, and you are somewhere about-tell me, are you?" 
               Hurriedly Maud turned the pages to another picture-a scene from village life-young people dancing on a green in the sunlight; others resting, chatting and smiling, under the shade of grape-laden vines. In the distance was the village, the church-spires towering toward the peaceful sky; and there were green fields, dark woods, and a stream-an exquisite glimpse of rural beauty. 
               "See! see that!" she exclaimed. 
               Miss Gladstone took the book from Maud; she turned its pages, but not so much in search of anything they might be able to give, as to reflect, in the opportunity of silence thus afforded, on what Maud had said. Some notion of this Maud seemed to receive, for presently, she gently closed the book in Miss Gladstone's hands, and said, looking at her with a fixed and steady glance: 
               "You are just what I wanted." 
               "And if it were indeed possible that I should take you with me-" 
               At these words Maud dropped the book, and fell down at the bedside on her knees, and hid her face. 
               "If it were so, I say, you might repent it-you might be disappointed. I should fear to attempt satisfying such hopes as you have." 
                
               "I never could repent it-never be disappointed." 
               "You do not know what you are saying, Maud. But at least we must talk no more of this to-night. Come and rest here beside me, and let us sleep, or I shall not be able to do all that you want me to do to-morrow." 
               But Maud was still upon her knees, and she did not rise, nor speak, nor look up, for now she was violently weeping; and Miss Gladstone let her weep, almost certain of the change that should come; yet she was surprised at the suddenness with which it came, the directness and decision with which Maud Saltonstall said, rising to her feet: 
               "Miss Gladstone, if you take me with you, I promise to be everything that you would like me to be. I would not want to go if it were not with you; it is to be with you. But if you leave me I shall not run away: forget that I said anything so foolish. My father and mother would miss me; I don't like to think about it. I'll go up stairs, and not trouble you any more to-night." 
               "Come here one moment, Maud." 
               Maud, who had turned away towards the door of the chamber, and was hastily advancing towards it, came softly, quickly back. 
               "Do you think that even this is a thing which should be left with God? When you go up to your room pray to Him, and let His will be done. If it is His pleasure that you should go, He will make the way all clear and smooth for you. Believe that you never can please Him so well as when you look to Him for direction in every event where it is necessary for you to act." 
               And now Maud Saltonstall went away. But it was not the Maud of any other year or day that went; it was a being conscious of self. She obeyed her counsellor, and prayed, but only that her own will might be done; as we all do, till we learn that such petitions are merely expressions of the frantic strife of selfishness. 
             
             
                
               IX. FATHER AND MOTHER. 
               A DIFFERENT conversation was going on between Abigail Saltonstall and her husband that same hour. Thus it begun: 
               "Perrine"-rarely was Saltonstall addressed thus by his wife; something more of constraint and formality than the pronunciation of this name could suggest had grown into the relation which she sustained towards him. He was on the border of a dream, and was not startled by this mention of his name, which had almost become a strange sound to him, its owner, from the rare utterance it had-"Miss Gladstone has been talking with me about setting out on her journey, and has concluded to go down to the port at once, and wait there for some vessel." 
               Even these words failed thoroughly to rouse the hearer. The way in which they were spoken would have arrested his attention sooner than the words of themselves could; but even this, much as it differed from his wife's usual address, failed of its proper effect, or of what Abigail would have deemed such. 
               "Ah," he murmured, as if quite in a dream, and not on its borders, "I should think she had had enough of that." 
               "She seems to know nothing of fear," pursued the wife. "She has been speaking to me of her plans, Perrine. She is going to teach a school; she left England for this purpose." 
               "She will make an admirable teacher." 
                
               "I think so. And for that reason, Mr. Saltonstall, I am desirous that Maud should go with her." 
               A conflict of opinions and a preparation for the conflict certainly seemed anticipated, by that "Mr. Saltonstall." 
               And the anticipation was not without a warrant, as the rapidly rising interest of Perrine evinced. 
               "Maud!" he exclaimed in amazement and dismay-"Maud! what do you mean by that, Abigail?" 
               "I mean it is the best that we can do for the child. Are our wishes or feelings to be consulted, or her good? Tell me, which seems of the most consequence to you? I have given the subject much thought, and I solemnly believe it is best that she should go." 
               Deep resentment was in Mr. Saltonstall's voice when next he spoke. In the suddenness with which this prospect opened before him he was blinded to all convictions save that his wife was striking at him in her undying vengeance. 
               "Abigail, this must not be-it shall not be," he said. 
               With a touch that was meant in tenderness and sympathy, the wife laid her hand on her husband's shoulder, and gentler words than often found utterance of her were on her lips, but he recoiled from the touch. What would she have now, this insatiable avenger; what of him, so utterly in her power? for he knew how weak he was to cope with that resolute will. He wronged her in his judgment, for he imputed this plan of which she spoke to an origination in her knowledge of their daughter's special nearness to his heart, to some perception of the fact that he could love her without reproach and misgiving. "She had observed," he said, in the proud, spasmodic effort his old manliness made, in that moment of fiery wrath-"she had observed how fond Maud was of him, and it was her purpose to remove all things that could give joy to his life. It was her manifest purpose to reduce his prospect to utter barrenness." 
               When he started from her touch, Abigail Saltonstall folded her arms upon her breast; she was resigned: and she said- and her words had the power now to hold him in spite of himself-"you and I, Perrine, have nothing, nothing to lose or to win. Is it the same with Maud? Is it possible that you have never thought of what is to become of her? We have given life to her, shall we not do what is in our power to make that life a happy one? Did ever better prospect open to your mind than now is opened to our eyes for her? I have noticed, and you, Perrine, who love her with a deeper passion, but not a truer tenderness than I, is it possible that you have not noticed? I have observed what an effect Miss Gladstone's appearance, and manner, and conversation, have had upon the child. It has seemed to me-and I am certain that no one could have her best interest at heart if I have not-that we should not again have such opportunity of doing for her what is right and good as we now have. In any case, we have lost our child. Her heart will go with Miss Gladstone, because all her desires will go with her, her curiosity and her hope too. Have you forgotten how strong all these are in youth? It is long since we were young, but you have not forgotten. Let her go and see life under this guardianship. Why keep her merely to save our hearts a pang? She has no call to such a life as ours; and since she has discovered the fact, Perrine-mistake me not, accuse me not-I say it is best for her, and us, that she should go." 
               Perrine Saltonstall heard his wife to the end. 
               "I differ from you," he said, and the calmness with which he began passed from his speech before he had gone farther than this. "It is a piece of recklessness I was not prepared for in you. You have no right to deprive me of my daughter. Whatever you may feel about it yourself, you do me irreparable injustice. I am astonished that you have the courage to speak of it. I am amazed at you." 
               By no light effort did Abigail repress the words that sprung now to her lips, and say, as she did say, instead, with a mild voice, "I will not appeal to your recollection of what has passed and gone, but you must refrain from the injustice you now seem capable of towards yourself, and Maud, and me. I will not vindicate myself. I ask you to vindicate me. If our daughter is so much to you-I have not urged my own right before-be patient and think; if she is so much to you, what must she be to me? I would suffer yet more than I must, and very gladly, to give her what is her right. But her right is not to be found among these circumstances. I did not create these circumstances-I did not bring Miss Gladstone here. There is now nothing here for Maud. This I know. There may have been something-may have been much, but nothing now in comparison with what is elsewhere. She has gifts which are by no means common. She has obtained a knowledge of them in the past week. We owe it to her that she should lead a happy life, and not a wretched one. Even though her way to happiness should be across our hearts." 
               Perrine Saltonstall made no reply to this. The catastrophe was so unlooked-for that he could not bring himself in any adequate way to regard it. He took refuge therefore in a sullen silence. 
               But his wife would not leave him thus; he must be reconciled, and, moreover, persuaded to that measure which she now advocated. She had another argument to unfold-the possibility of Maud's orphanage, and the cruelty and sin there would be in not taking advantage of the best opportunity that presented for securing her welfare. But to this Saltonstall replied: 
               "You reckon on the chances of our death, but not on hers; the tender mercies of strangers as more to be desired than your own. Besides, it seems quite clear to you that this strange woman will live forever, because she escaped shipwreck." 
               "I think they will both live longer than we," said Abigail quietly; "because they have something to do in the world. As for us, why do we live at all? It is a reasonable question." 
               Perrine said no more, but as he turned away from his wife, she did not counsel him to seek for wisdom, as Miss Gladstone counselled Maud. And wherefore should he seek it? His wife was his oracle. It was to a harder than Christian duty that she would compel him. There was more bitterness in her injunction than in the Saviour's-lose your life and save it; for the word was a human one, and all its circumstances temporal. 
             
             
                
               X. THE CASE ARGUED. 
               IN the morning, Mr. Saltonstall took advantage of Maud's absence from the house to say to Miss Gladstone, whom he met under the porch, where Maud had placed a chair for her before she went out to her morning work: 
               "Be so good as to let me hear my wife and you talk of that she has been speaking of to me. Abby!" 
               Many a year had passed since Saltonstall had spoken with any pretence of authority to his wife; but the speaking of these words seemed to indicate a reinforcement of himself, for the words were spoken with peremptory haste, and as he uttered them, Saltonstall sat down on the steps of the portico, while Abigail, obedient to his call, came from the kitchen, and said, with some haste in the opening words, but with more deliberation and self-possession as she proceeded: 
               "I have broken suddenly on my husband with the proposition that Maud should go away with you. He was unprepared for anything of the kind, as I was when you first came. But as he, as well as I, has the best interest of the child at heart, I am quite certain that a word from you encouraging the plan would be of essential service to all of us." 
               To this Margaret responded: 
               "If it be the sincere wish of her parents, I am willing to take Maud with me. But not if one of you be made to suffer. If, as you think, it is desirable for her to have other advantages than are within her reach here-and much suffering would be occasioned by her removal at this time-I should, in all candor, advise you to delay until some more favorable opportunity presents itself." 
               "I trust her alone with you," said the mother at once, with unquestionable earnestness. "You understand her already quite as well as I do; you will deal with her, having the advantage of a place of resources and authority, as I could not do." 
               "She herself expressed the wish to go with me," said Miss Gladstone after a pause, which it was hoped Perrine would fill. 
               "She did!" exclaimed he, startled at this. "What answer did you make, madam?" 
               "Sir, I counselled her to look above for wisdom and direction. And since the matter seems now to rest with her earthly father, may the Heavenly guide him; I can have nothing to say about it. For myself, I only know my own destination, and my duty. It will certainly not lessen my cares if I take her; still, I shall do the best I can in accordance with your decision. I will defer my departure till you shall have deliberated freely." 
               "Do you mean by that, a day or a year? Stay with us-stay through the season. Your health will be improved by it; this location is healthful. We have a very good collection of books in the house; remain, and instruct our daughter. Why not?" 
               Saltonstall, in the excitement of the moment arose, and stood before Miss Gladstone, and waited her reply. Impatient had the waiting been if her delay continued but a moment; but it did not for even an instant. For Miss Gladstone had but to mention the engagement she had made, and to state the expectation that must be answered by her, to show him how impossible it was that she should regard his request. 
                
               Then Abigail spoke in reply to Miss Gladstone's last words, that she would remain in spite of the necessity that bade her hasten, until they should have deliberated on the matter; and her counsel, that they should decide nothing hastily, but consider the possibility of a change in their future feelings on the subject. 
               "If she goes with you, it is very certain that she will be as entirely surrendered to you as though we had buried her, or she were none of ours. This must be understood. I will not cheat myself or others. Maud has talents which, if cultivated, will prevent her being a burden to you ever. You will not let her talents run to waste. If her abilities are discovered to her, in the way they never have been, never will be if she remains here, and if she is led to make the most of them, she will be a great aid to you some day. I know what she is. Whatever you bestow on her will be returned to you fourfold in treasure. But only for one reason do you need this assurance, or I give it. I, who have studied her so that I know her by heart, surrender her to your keeping, believing it to be best for every one of us." 
               With all her old authority, which seemed neither assuming nor presuming, but the expression required of her, as she felt, Abigail said these words. 
               "You said she wished to go-that Maud wished to," said Saltonstall clearing his voice, and walking off a few paces from Miss Gladstone, whom he addressed. Then he came back; and he did not now attempt to disguise his emotion. "It may be but the restlessness and curiosity of a child," he continued, in a lower, huskier tone. 
               "Could she ever be talked out of it? Do you actually believe it? Regard the business as a choice between evils if you will, Perrine, and choose the least." 
               Again Saltonstall walked across the porch and lingered at its further extremity, again he returned, but slowly now. 
               "If you are certain that it is her happiness you seek," he said-"but remember you take upon yourself the responsibility of this movement-if you are certain that she will be happier away from us than here, I am not a hindrance to your wishes-let Maud go." 
               When he had thus spoken he waited for no response, no acceptation of his words, but went off hurriedly towards the barn, and entered on his day's labor. Neither did Abigail pause to speak a word; but she returned to her household duties, not by any means elated that she had gained a point, but unquestioningly confident that she had accomplished what it was her duty to do. 
             
             
                
               XI. MAUD AND THE SPHINX. 
               MAUD made no haste to return home from the woods, whither she went on the needless errand of driving the cow, who knew the way there quite as well as she. Never till this morning had she eaten her breakfast in such haste and agitation. She feared to be alone either with her mother or Miss Gladstone; she could have said that morning no word for herself, if she had with her destiny anything to do. 
               Her sleep last night was a troubled sleep, and broken. Her heart and brain throbbed with unrest, and longing, and regret. Anticipation and remembrance had a stormy encounter, and neither was victorious, for the voice of neither was silenced. Even if it were possible that she should go from home-a prospect which, in spite of, or perhaps because of, its nearness, seemed incredible to her, for it was impossible for her to grasp it-the going would occasion an anguish scarcely less than that she knew she must feel if left behind. 
               Many thoughts, thoughts as well as dreams, she had now, of which she had been incapable heretofore. Into the future, of which Miss Gladstone had barely made mention, she endeavored to take herself, but in the effort was a striving and uncertainty that did not come to her as a joyous striving, or a pleasing uncertainty, unlimited as was her confidence in the guide that she should have through all. 
                
               For opposed to the future she might enter, was the present she must leave. In vain she loitered through the wood, and sat down in the shade, and closed her eyes, and tried to listen to the birds in the trees singing. Visions thronging through her brain, trooping upward from her heart, would not be laid when she endeavored to compel them. They had too much life-they were not to be scattered like the mist. 
               She thought of her father; she recalled the times when she had been able, laboring with a pang at her heart which she did not then understand, but which she felt, and which spurred her on to a gaiety that was not often the true expression of her heart, to remove or lessen the gloom that oftentimes oppressed him, when at work about the farm. Of those times when he would yield to her wishes, and permit her to aid him in his outdoor labors-when he would rest from his toil in the shade, that painful expression on his face which it was such pain to see. She could think of the changes wrought in him, oh many a time, by her presence. 
               Though never a harsh or an angry word, or a word of recrimination, passed between her parents, insensibly Maud had grown up with a more abounding reverence for her mother, and a warmer affection for her father; and it was the thought of his, rather than of her mother's loneliness, that most troubled her, now that there was a possibility of separation between them. When she was gone-and it was observable that in her reflections the certainty of going was continually assumed, and the uncertainty afterwards admitted-when she was gone how would it be with him? She did not yet so apprehend herself, and all she was to him, as to be able to follow out the truth which presented itself to her as an answer to this questioning of her heart, in all its points, through all its bearings. There had been such a lack of all demonstration both of word and act from her childhood, or her infancy, until now, as would prevent the belief that any very deep love for her was in either of her parents' hearts, or that she was in any way essential to their daily life. On the contrary, had the matter come before her in this light she might have testified to the frequent repulses her own heart had met in the expansion of its impulses and longings; and, if questioned, could but have given evidence of the solitude of a myriad of uncommunicated thoughts and feelings, which had been shut off by the manner of training to which she had been subjected. 
               And therefore she did not draw a picture in her imagination of her father's suffering, in consequence of her departure, commensurate with the truth. She did not give him credit for the grief that he would bear. And well for her she could not-a pang, a bitterness of grief was spared her thus, that, if borne, would leave its seal on all her after life. 
               Still farther from the truth was she when she thought upon her mother, left alone. She saw the tireless, swift-moving figure walking through the silent house, pursuing household labors, or resting in the porch, or reading there; rising with the birds, and going to rest at twilight; driving the cow, but never riding Lady Jane; working in the field when there was 
                     occcasion
                     occasion
                  , or in the garden; speaking little, thinking much, perhaps caring for the flowers in the beds before the door, training the vines, but Maud said not to herself for her sake, because these things had been her care! She saw her mindful of the birds, remembering to feed them-watchful of them when at twilight they came circling in multitudes around the house. These duties of watchfulness and memory she beheld her mother fulfilling, because the child felt it was impossible that those flower-beds should be over-grown with weeds, those vines trailing along the ground, clasping their tendrils around the spires of grass instead of the high pillars of the porch; because the birds must have a watcher when the night was falling-eyes that could look upward when the small wings went fluttering away up into heaven, almost beyond sight; because they must have a watcher when they descended on steady course that broke not into flutter from the highest circle to the nearest above her. Whether these occupations were such as her mother would like to indulge in, she did not think to inquire-they were such as Maud allotted her. 
               She had never consciously gone far within her mother's heart. Never had her mother's arms enfolded her, as twice and thrice Miss Gladstone's arms had done! Abigail's care of her child had never been the jealous care of an absorbing love. The child might linger all day in the fields or woods, at work or at play, as suited her; the reproach she heard on her return was never urged on the ground that would have given it instant effect: that her mother had felt her absence, had been lonely, had longed for her return. She had never been presented to Maud's mind as in want of any thing. She was sufficient in herself, and could dispense with all the props and aids which make the joys of weakness. 
               The eagerness with which Maud escaped from these thoughts to those suggested by the accidentally recalled name of Miss Gladstone, told the influence of that natural and generous life upon the girl. The vision of the forsaken home was swept away into obscurity as a dissolving view, and in its place another appeared; but its shape and its intent were vague; there was nothing clear about it, save its heaven and its sun; between the heaven and the earth a veil was spread, and her imagination could not withdraw it. Fearlessly she surrendered herself to that guidance; wherever Miss Gladstone went, thither would she go; to be left behind her would be death-a death to which she felt she could not be appointed. A thousand thronging thoughts and fancies waited for their certain answer-her curiosity was alive, and the half of all that questioning of which Maud's brain was full, a life's experience could hardly have answered. To meet all the freedom which the mere thought of Miss Gladstone promised, she sprung forward with rapturous exultation. For, unrestrained as her life had been, it had not been a free, but a bound life-bound after the strictest spiritual sense. 
               A life not aware of itself; there had been "dark strivings," but no knowledge of "the right way." Not any or every life might have produced on Maud the effect which was the legitimate result of the coming and unfolding before her eyes of a nature like Margaret Gladstone's. No new character could have entered that small circle, and failed to produce, by the entrance, a powerful result; but to win the confidence, bestir the fancy, and the inspiration of a soul, seemed to become the peculiar task, as it was also the legitimate influence of Miss Gladstone's abiding there. 
               Margaret herself had begun to perceive this, and when her attention was called to the fact by others, she did not feel herself at liberty to escape the result which was not only to be anticipated, but which actually took place. 
               While Maud in the forest, in her own way thought about these things, Margaret, in the porch-left alone there by the father and mother of the girl-also reflected upon them, and still was musing in that same direction when Maud came home again. 
               Abigail heard her child when she came home, but she kept out of sight, and went on with her work. Not that the household labor was pressing on her hands, but she wished that to take place which did take place-wished Maud to be left subject to the influences which had already produced so great an effect upon her. Perrine Saltonstall in the field also was aware when the girl came home: he saw her when she stopped on her way towards the house and called to Lady Jane, and for a moment stood in an indecision, which he well perceived and understood, for every morning at this time it was her habit to mount the horse and ride away; he saw her turn now from her steed, and saw, too, how the animal followed her a few paces, stood still, and then went on again, as if it were impossible to believe that her mistress had really meant to go without her. Perrine, the father, beheld all this, and partly understood it-wholly, when he saw Maud go to the porch, and sit down on the step at Miss Gladstone's feet; and he likewise, as his wife had done, turned back to his work, and he never saw the sun again that day, nor perceived that there was on earth or in the heaven anything to be desired. 
               A smile of delight flashed sudden as a sunbeam from the midst of a gray morning, and with as beautiful effect, over the face of Maud when she saw Miss Gladstone sitting in the porch: "Oh, wouldn't you like a ride? Lady Jane was so disappointed when I came by and wouldn't go with her. She is all ready," exclaimed she, anxious to make what reparation she could to the slighted steed. 
               "I will walk down with you, by and by, and take a look at her," answered Miss Gladstone. "I have been waiting for you, Maud, an hour and more." 
               "Did you want me?" 
               Miss Gladstone heard the longing in the question, and replied, as with all truth she could reply: 
               "Yes." 
               Nearer to her then came Maud, when she heard that answer; but she made no other demonstration of the joy it gave her. 
               "Why would you not go with Lady Jane?" asked Miss Gladstone, and a very special purpose was in all the questioning on which she now entered. 
               "I remembered you said you would be out this morning." 
               "But you were a long time coming to me." 
               "I was thinking. But I am very sorry I did not come." 
               "If you were thinking, that is better-we shall have the long day yet. But of what were you thinking, dear Maud?" 
               Instead of replying, Maud arose from the step, and went up to the questioner, her face all flushed and full of agitation. 
               "Why do you call me dear Maud?"she asked. 
                
               Very promptly, and with a strong voice, but low, Miss Gladstone answered: 
               "Because you are dear to me. Because you will be the same to me as if you were my child." 
               Hastily Maud looked around her-distressed she looked; whither should she go that none might see the storm that was breaking within her? Nowhere could she go. 
               Observant of that face, Miss Gladstone knew its token, and she drew Maud upon the bench, and held her fast, and said, soothingly: 
               "If you have asked God to guide you, Maud, you need not be afraid. He will surely lead us to do the best for you. You will go with me, I think, and, while you are with me, you will be very dear; if it were not so, I would not dare think of taking you. . . . . . Come, now, I think I can walk with you. Let us go and visit Lady Jane; I have to thank her for bringing me so safely where I could not bring myself." 
               She was the first to rise, and, holding Maud's hand, she drew her along with her, and so they descended from the porch. 
               They walked away together from the house, and Abigail and Perrine Saltonstall both saw them go, and, with an oath, the father turned from them to such labor as his arms had never before bestowed upon the field. But, with a sinking heart, a fainting heart, the mother beheld. The repressed tenderness of years surged within her like a flood at the sight. She turned away from the window, beside which she had stood, watchful for a moment-for she saw that Maud was weeping; saw, too, how effectually and speedily Miss Gladstone comforted her as they went. 
             
             
                
               XII. FORTUNE-TELLING. 
               "IT was here," said Margaret Gladstone, as they paused under the tree where Maud had first met her; "it was here I stood when I saw you coming. I might well call you dear, and precious to my heart, for partly, I owe my life to you. Here you brought Lady Jane." 
               "She is coming of her own will now," said Maud. And truly the animal was following them at her leisure, browsing by the way, but still upon their path, and gaining on them. 
               "You have been thinking what it will be to go away and leave her, and all things that you know," said Miss Gladstone, who was determined in her own mind that she should understand fully what it was that she would do before the day of departure should actually come. 
               "Dear Lady Jane!" exclaimed Maud, but her eyes did not rest on the horse; the word of lamentation took in all by which she was surrounded-her home, and every object connected with it. "I used to ride Lady Jane when I was so little that father led her, and held me on her back at the same time. But"-and here she drew in a great breath that broke the force of grief-"I can leave her. How much you must have left." 
               "It makes you strong then to think that I have suffered. . . . . . Yes; I left my country behind-everything with which I was familiar. 
                
               "And your home, too?" 
               Most eager Maud seemed to establish a likeness between them, by proving that the experience was parallel. 
               "My home, too," answered she, sadly lingering over the words-yet quick to correct the saddening effect that might proceed from such an utterance, even while she deepened the impression of the loss that was sustained-"for the heart makes the home, and my heart was there. This is a new world to me. When the vessel went down it seemed to break the tie that held me to what I left behind. And that I live assures me that I have something to do here." 
               "Did you leave your father and your mother?" 
               "No; they left me many years ago; they both are dead." 
               "Was there anything that you could leave, then?" Maud asked surprised. 
               "Old friends and neighbors, the dear village where I was born, and the church, and the church-yard, the sky where I always watched the sunset; I had these things to leave. A little garden, and some old, old trees." 
               She said nothing of illustrious friends, and fame, that was not bounded by the land that gave her birth. 
               "And came away alone?" said Maud, wondering. 
               "Yes; but no, my everlasting Friend came with me." 
               "Who?-he was lost!" exclaimed Maud, in consternation. 
               "No; still He knows my rising up and lying down, and is acquainted with all my ways; and I continually say to him, try me, and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wickedness in me, and lead me in the way everlasting." 
               Now, Maud understood, but still the wonder did not vanish from her face. It was strange to hear one speaking of Him, as of a true, living friend. 
               "So I am always safe," continued Miss Gladstone. 
               She did not urge the question home on Maud, nor ask in any manner, if this were true of her. It was wise in her to leave the thought just where she did; to neither agitate the heart that loved her into a false persuasion that what was true of one must needs be true of the other, nor to rush the young mind into a whirl of doubt and distress at a time when it needed to be soothed and pacified. 
               "If you had stayed there at home what could you have done?" asked Maud. 
               "Everywhere there is something to be done. I should have found occupation as I had found before." 
               "What did you do?" 
               "I labored for a living." 
               "How was it?" 
               "I did many things." 
               "If anything had happened so that you could never come here, it would not have seemed to you as if your chance was gone," inquired Maud. 
               "My chance? my chance for what?" asked Miss Gladstone, not that she needed on her own account to hear Maud's meaning from her lips, but she wished the girl to take thought of her words. 
               "For everything," answered Maud, with a little hesitation, and yet with confidence. "As I should feel if you went away and left me." 
               "But why should you feel so? Here is your home, your father and mother are here, all away from here is strange to you." 
               "No, it is not so strange. I have read of great cities and towns, where thousands of people live together, and where everything is done. You thought it was your duty to come away from your own country; do you think it is not mine?" 
               "But I came with a purpose-and have you one?" 
               "You might show me one, and then I should be happier." 
               "Have you not been happy here?" 
               "How can I tell? Though when I think of what may be yet-what may happen-I think it is so. That when I could not understand I was not happy. Why can I say this to you, and feel that I must go with you? If you were different I should not want to go, perhaps." 
               "I do not know, I think it might be even the same," said Miss Gladstone, almost smiling. 
               "Why?" asked Maud, not venturing to express a doubt, for, though but remotely, she felt there might be truth in this. 
               "What you shall have delights you more to think of than what you have already. You have not learned that it is true wisdom to be content with what you have." 
               "Would that be true wisdom for me?" asked Maud, with evident reluctance, and still with determination. She had gone beyond her impulse, and now was taking sober cognizance of reason and her duty. 
               "Let me ask, would it not?" 
               "If there is nothing more to be had. If the world, as you called it, has nothing to give." 
               "It has nothing." 
               "No joy, Miss Gladstone?" 
               "None that equals its sorrow-so far as I have learned." 
               "And no wisdom?" 
               "None that can make you happier than the wisdom you can learn here." 
               "No rest and peace either?" 
               "I never have known any that excelled what you may have here." 
               "But if I do not find it here, then I must look somewhere else. All places are not alike to all people, are they?" 
               "It is true, but you will never find on earth what will satisfy all your wants; alas for you if you do, Maud, for the gods of this world perish. It is true wisdom to be independent of the world-not subject to it in any way or shape." 
                
               As if troubled by the solemn warning spoken by this kindly voice that entered with so much interest into her feelings and thoughts, for many moments Maud was silent; then she said gravely, "I believe that I should go. I can come back again; but if I do not go now I can never go with you. I must go, and find out what it means; you will tell me, when I am living with you. You do not like to tell me now." 
               "What could I tell you that I have not told?" 
               "My fortune," said Maud, with sudden boldness. "I have read of those who could read the fortunes of others. You belong to such. I thought so the first day you were at our house. You can see what will happen to me; your eyes have the look that can see a great way off. I was going to ask you to tell me my fortune, but I was afraid you would think me foolish." 
               "Why fear? you would not ask it of me, would you, if you thought it folly?" 
               Maud was deliberate in replying. 
               "My mother says that our fortune makes itself known fast enough-that we need be in no haste; but I thought you would not think it so foolish. It does not come fast enough-it has been a great while coming to me; and now that it seems to have come, I would like to see it as you see it." 
               "But I might, perhaps, be mistaken-might give a wrong report." Here she paused a moment. "It will be a life almost as quiet as that you have had here, only there will be a few more persons about you. You will go to school, and, if you live, become a woman. That is all that I can see." 
               "This is not what I have thought. Will not that come to pass?" 
               "What is it that you have thought, then?" 
               "Can you not tell?" 
               "Surely no." 
               "It is nothing, then?" 
                
               "No, again-no, indeed! I cannot pretend to know what has been revealed to you, dear Maud, no more than you can tell me of my thoughts." 
               "I could not tell. It was brighter than the sun and sweeter than the flowers, and more rapture in it than in the wind, or the songs of the birds. But I cannot tell it. I would if I knew how. But it seemed to me, when I saw it and felt it, that I was living then. Since you came, it has seemed to me that you could see it all, and I thought it was not so foolish then; but if ever I was wise it was when I used to look up, as Stephen did, and see the heavens open." 
               "Can it be that thus the angels have ministered unto her?" said Miss Gladstone in her heart, as she looked upon the rapt face of the child. And she knew that it was so. That it had been better could Maud have passed from the world, taught only as she had been by the angels; but still she comforted and soothed her heart by saying: 
               "It was not I that saved my life, that brought myself hither. I did not ask her of her mother. If she must tread the common path, and I must walk beside her, not my will, but Thine! The world was made to live in." 
             
             
                
               XIII. THE DAY ARRIVED. 
               PERRINE SALTONSTALL'S grief, in view of what was about to befall him, could find for itself no vent on that day when the disclosure of his wife's purpose came, nor on the succeeding three days which elapsed before the departure of Miss Gladstone; no vent, except in such a restlessness of spirit as compelled him to continual activity. One who had seen him at break of day and at nightfall, working on the farm, would have thought that there was hope of him that he would prove an efficient laborer at length. Never had that soil such attention bestowed on it before. 
               But his tears did not refuse to fall. They gathered from the springs that were hidden in his heart, they were drawn forth at prospect of a loss with which death had nothing to do, and which was more bitter than death. 
               Life, in all dealing with him, was more inexorable, and as resistless as death. Though his toils were continued, and his tears fell, the remorseless fact remained. Soon, at the latest soon, Maud would be gone. She was dearer to him now than ever, though for years she had been the dearest object of his life. No reproach had ever fallen on him from her eyes. Her innocence had long since ceased from its first office. He had been freed from the fear that a time would come when the trusting child would regard him with mistrust. He honored her mother, and reverenced and was grateful to Abigail that she suffered it to be so, that the sin might never be laid at her door of having striven to alienate the affection of his child. It was of grace and clemency that she suffered it-so at least he felt it to be, for he had not yet risen so far above his offending self as to be capable of demanding exemption from necessity of offering the testimony of a continual repentance-had not so repented as to be delivered from the sin's penalty; and he had been apprehensive of but one power that could come between him and his child. She stood to him who had so much loved the world, who had sacrificed so much to win its applause, even all things together with the possibility of plaudits-she stood to him in the world's large and entire relation. To himself, in some small degree, he proved what it is that the world bestows not, and never can require. In the love of his daughter his best nature came forth to its utmost expansion, in all its bloom and all its fragrance, and his worst languished. 
               Saltonstall was unprepared, therefore, for the feelings which now sprung up around the bleeding wound of his heart, like weeds around the margin of a stagnant pool, odorous, but not sweetly so; weeds which grew rankly and quickly in the light that was so feeble, cold, and full of dismal threatening. He was astonished by, as unprepared for, the thoughts and impulses that hurried and trampled upon him, as an armed on a defenceless man. 
               He did not regard the fact abstractly, nor in its corresponding relations. In no way but as a dull, dark, dire necessity. There was no escape from it: this was his fate. His resignation to it was not the resignation of the courageously surrendering man, who recognizes a higher hand in all that truly concerns him-a higher hand than the poor, thwarting, impeding, cruel hand of human power. He had now done with hoping for life. His wife and all hope seemed dissevered irrevocably from him the instant that he loosened the bond which detained his daughter near. But the fact that led to this was cruel, and it smote him as an irreparable wrong; and instead of the indignant opposition with which he had at first met the thought and proposition of yielding his child, he went away to hide his weeping face. Never had his loss of that integrity which is the crown of manhood so smitten him, so crushed him, as now. And the horror of it was, that he could not regard his wife in this extremity-an extremity that was without a parallel in his career-as a wilful, revengeful avenger. If he could only have done so, he would have found a consolation that would have given him strength, which now he had not, to oppose her. 
               She was but acting-and, tacitly, at least, he had for years conceded her right to do so-was but acting with a view to the best interest of the child, as it appeared to her mind. It was no paltry, mean-spirited advantage that she would take; she had surely considered the question with that same serious, impartial, self-forgetful spirit that characterized all her doings. She might suffer keenly in the effect of her decision, but she would utter no repining, she would feel no regret; no excess of grief or loneliness would ever blind her to the fact that it was her child's good she had sought, and this would be sufficient to sustain her through all sense of personal loss. In this he judged truly. 
               These points Perrine Saltonstall was contemplating in bitterness of spirit as he drove the plough one morning among the corn-hills. As he went on with this labor, Abigail-who had crossed the field unobserved-appeared at his side. She walked beside him over the broken ground a few steps before she attempted to speak. Midway in the field Saltonstall reined in the horse that drew the plough, and said, questioning, "Breakfast?" 
               His wife looked at him, and for a moment did not reply; and he, so gazing, took heart, for her face seemed to give indication of relenting, and a full sympathy. During the past days he had watched that face as he had never watched it before fore, interpreting its every expression in reference to Maud. Every feature seemed to have relaxed from the ordinary indications of stern purpose; a tenderness, the more impressive for its rarity, though it seemed not now unnatural nor inadequate, was visible in her countenance. Perrine saw it, and hoped. Her first words, however, dispelled the illusion they had suggested, for the tone of her voice was not to be mistaken. 
               "I came to call you to breakfast," said Abigail. 
               "Why did you not send Maud? She always comes to call me." 
               "She is with Miss Gladstone. Perrine, it is best. I think they will go to-day. Do you not think it as well so, better? If you can take them to the port they will be ready for the first vessel. She is anxious to be gone. And on every account I think it would be well for them to go at once." 
               It occurred to Perrine Saltonstall, as he looked at his wife-upon whose face the morning sun was shining, disclosing, beyond all possibility of concealment, the emotions of her heart, the mother's heart-it occurred to him that he was called at this time, and in this place, to the utterance of some consolations. Abigail could no longer conceal from him that she was suffering, and the revelation was like a new wound thrust through his heart. The consolations, mere repetitions of those she had spoken to him, struggled in him for speech, but the heart of the man fainted in the struggle, and the speech fell in its overthrow. Something of this conflict she, whom he could not deceive or mislead, must have perceived; she laid her hand hastily upon his arm, and grasped it, as if for succor or defence; but the grasp loosened again-he could not help her: still-for he was looking on her now in turn, in the very wildness of a hope of reconciliation such as had never yet passed between them-he read nothing like a distrust of his own sympathy in this trial, but a spasmodic effort of a nature that had been so long compelled to rely on itself in solitary and unwitnessed sorrows and strivings, that it rebuked itself for seeking any external aid or deliverance. 
               Therefore, though she drew herself away from him, Saltonstall read no aversion in the act, no distrust in it. And more difficult still had it been for him to have caught alarm from the words she said; there was no new, strange evil to be feared. 
               "Come, let us go together, and strengthen our child by our own courage. It is but one more grief to us, and we shall make her whole life happy!" 
               She recognized, then, that he had his part to do in this as well as she; and Saltonstall responding, as it seemed, asked: 
               "Abigail, must it be to-day?" 
               She answered: "To us all times would be alike. We cannot lessen this pain. Yet it is not greater than we can bear." 
               There was surely some significance in the fact that Abigail did not leave Perrine this morning until he had taken the horse from the plough, and that she walked beside him to the house. They were actually one, in this their sorrow, if in no other respect. 
               There was a quietness about the quiet house that day that seemed unnatural, though very natural it was. Much passing to and fro was there, but the preparations for the departure were few, and not such as required any great commotion. Silent and steadfast as fate, Abigail moved about the house, and all her labor was in one direction-the preparation for her child's departure. With a sort of awe, as if in the hands of that which was resistless, each soul under that roof felt compelled to render obediently to whatever her eye, or the utterance of her restrained and well-controlled voice required. 
               Even Miss Gladstone felt that day, more impressively and deeply than before, the power of Abigail Saltonstall. And Miss Gladstone herself, not by her presence, and the constraint it might at another time have imposed, but by the manner of her presence on that day, seemed but as an enforcement of the obligation which the manner of Abigail imposed-a mild, but resistless enforcement. 
               At breakfast no allusion was made to the proposed departure; but when it was over, Abigail informed Miss Gladstone that her husband would drive her and Maud to the port that day, and wait there with them, if it should seem needful, until the arrival of a vessel. 
               Maud heard these words, and ran from the room, and away from the house, in a sudden ecstasy of astonishment and grief. She was aware only of fear, and distress, and consternation, at the intelligence her mother thus conveyed. 
               Saltonstall also went out, having heard his wife's speech-went out without a word. And he stood under the open sky, and watched his daughter as she flew down the path; and presently he followed slowly after her. 
               Thus Margaret Gladstone and Abigail Saltonstall were left alone in the house. 
               Something of a change, so slight in its indications that it must have escaped the notice of Maud or of Perrine Saltonstall, had they looked that moment in upon these women-a change, however, sufficiently manifest to open the hearts of each to the other; something of a change, not of purpose, not of will, but of expression, appeared upon their faces, when they found themselves alone. The emotion, for a moment visible in the countenance of Abigail, prompted Miss Gladstone's heart to say, though she said it not: "Retain your child; her freedom-if what you seek be her freedom-is purchased at too dear a rate." While in her who was to be Maud's future guardian, Abigail perceived all that was needful as a confirmation of her belief that here truly was manifest the best guide for her child; and she said, with a strong voice, that must have surprised even her own heart, by its firmness, while she took from her bosom a purse well filled with gold: 
               "Take this. I have kept it since the child was born, now these fifteen years. It is all I have to give her, but it will be sufficient for Maud until you have made her all your own by such teaching as you will give her." 
               "And for all that shall come of my influence upon her I hold myself, as God will hold me, responsible," said Miss Gladstone. "You here surrender all your obligation." The words thus uttered seemed to hold the speaker of them in a sort of wonderment. Their effect was net lost on the hearer, who, as if moved by some irresistible impulse, more impetuous than she seemed capable of, approached Miss Gladstone with a rapid step; then, self-arrested, she stood and gazed in the face of her guest. Tears started to those eyes that alone beheld her sorrow; and her voice gave utterance to some words of sympathy, as Margaret bent forward toward the mother. Whispered words they were. But she did not ask the question-it was, of all questions, the most remote now-" To what end is all this? What fate possesses you that you should urge on your purpose to the rending of your hearts?" 
               As though she heeded not what Miss Gladstone did say, and yet was roused out of her momentary weakness by the sound of a voice, Abigail nerved herself to do that which yet remained to be done; to say, while they were alone, all that was yet in her mind to speak. 
               "Maud," she said, pausing at the mention of that name, but again recovering herself, and speaking what remained to be said, without a break or hindrance. "Maud; you know her almost as well as I, for she is just what she seems. To what purpose had it been to teach her of herself, to show her all she might become? If she had remained here till we died, I had decided to leave her undeveloped. But she will not be; if you placed her among others, even if she should have no advantage of instruction, she would develop herself. Make her what you are; it can be done without any violence to her nature. Since you came here I have felt continually the desire and conviction that she should be taught. In whatever will make her happier, instruct her. You need not say to her that she will not return here, but such must be the fact. She is of an age and a disposition that will accept the fact in time, though she might not receive the information. That is all I have to say." 
               And Abigail walked away to the performance of some household duty, and to complete the few arrangements in her power that were needful for Maud's future. 
               After a momentary hesitation, Margaret Gladstone followed her. 
               "You have shown a singular confidence in me," she said; "you have not asked a question in regard to my past life. Have you no desire to know it?" 
               "No," said Abigail; "women know when they can trust each other. I ask nothing of you. If you had not my confidence in the first place, to what purpose should I question you, or you me? Either of us has wit enough for invention. Probably we have both been cheated before now. I wish to trust you; your face tells me I may. I have seen no other woman's face these ten years. It may be I shall never see another. But that is of no consequence. I give you all I have, and I thank you for taking it. Not because I want to be rid of it. For her sake, I have told you nothing of my own history-I ask nothing of yours. I think I have now said all. If my blessing were worth anything, I would say take it. Remember how I, Abigail Saltonstall, have trusted you. I trusted others with my life; I trust you with more." 
               These words had their own endorsement in the voice that spoke them; no argument was to be held with Abigail, on any of the points on which they touched that day. She went off when she had finished speaking, and left Margaret alone. Therefore, Margaret Gladstone said nothing to her of her own bright and glorious past, nor spoke further of her future. She could not think, without a shudder, of the barren life awaiting the inmates of that house; but she could say nothing to Abigail of the time that was to come, nor dwell longer, in any way, upon the event that filled her thoughts. But one thing was expected and required of her; and because she believed the requirement to be the will of God, she yielded to it. 
             
             
                
               XIV. THE DEPARTURE. 
               BUT where was Maud meanwhile? She had again gone down the path familiar to her steps now since her childhood, but not thinking to drive home the cow, or to perform any other service. She went out without a purpose, except to be in the open air, out of sound and hearing, for her destiny was too close upon her when in presence of her mother and Miss Gladstone. Her heart was full to overflowing, and she ran on till her steps were brought to a sudden pause by the swift pace of Lady Jane, who followed her. 
               She waited till the steed came up, and, after a moment's hesitation, threw herself upon the horse's back, and rode away into the wood. But there was nothing there which could command her attention that day-no living thing; for she held her thoughts away from the squirrels, the birds, the flowers-from every thing she loved; she would not have it that she was listening to, or beholding these for the last time; that Lady Jane, who chose her own path, and bore her whither she would, after this day should bear her no more. She held her thoughts from this, and it was not difficult to do; it was easier than to form, as she endeavored, some definite notion of what yet awaited her. 
               But when the horse brought her back in sight of the house-the only human habitation her eyes had knowledge of-and stopped at the place where she usually alighted, a sudden sense of "the last time," and of the fact that of all there so dear to her, not one object or creature was aware that she should be, ere the day departed, withdrawn from among them; that knowledge of what was to be was hidden from her companions, not from her, gave a sense of loneliness to her grief, which did not lessen it. It was there that, like a flood, this knowledge swept in, as for the first time, upon her; and there, at the moment when she broke into sudden and loud lamentation, her father, who was in search of her, came near. His own tears, which had fallen without restraint, received a sudden check as he beheld her lying where she had thrown herself upon the ground; his privilege to mourn was over, he had now the service of a comforter to render, and so, slowly advancing toward her, until he came close to Lady Jane, he said: 
               "My child!" Sweet, and more than tender was that voice's sound to Maud. She looked up, and beholding him after a moment's hesitation, in which she struggled to recover herself, she arose. 
               Perrine was not unaware of all this effort must have cost her. The tempest has its tokens long after the storm has fallen. There were no more tears and sobbing, but the lip that quivered even in the attempt to obtain self-control, the long-drawn breath, told him that she restrained her tears for his sake-for the sake of something in his voice that had no utterance. 
               "Have you been off with Lady Jane?" he asked. 
               "She could only nod her head in answer. 
               "Maud!" She looked up quickly into his face, for the voice startled her. What was in it? A new tone she could not, dared not interpret. 
               He turned away from her when he had thus spoken, and did not finish what he began to say. 
               "Father, will I be very long away?" she asked, breaking at once upon the subject that absorbed their minds. 
                
               "I cannot tell, my daughter." He restrained himself merely to this utterance, though a multitude of words claimed speech; for her sake they should not be spoken. 
               "It is a dreadful thing to go," she said, clasping closely his hand, which he had lain upon her head, when he last spoke, as if he would bless her. 
               "Why seems it so to you, my child? It should be all fair." 
               "Will you miss me much do you think, father?" She had caught even at the little cheer there was in his words. There was one who to the utmost trusted him! and for this, even in such an hour, Perrine Saltonstall could thank his wife. 
               "If I do, I shall still be of good cheer, Maud." 
               "Shall you, father?" Blithely she spoke these words, yet she wanted a yet further assurance, and it was therefore that she asked: 
               "Why?" 
               "Because you will be happy. That will be enough for me, dear. Do you think you could forget all this around here, if you never came again?" 
               "How could I forget?" she asked, surprised, and saddened at the question. 
               "I do not think you could. Your mother, and your father, too; you must think of us both every day-every morning; and when you pray, my child, you must not forget to ask God to remember us." 
               "I never will forget, father." There was all the solemnity of an oath in this answer. But it was something new for Saltonstall to be talking about praying-above all things, strange for him to ask Maud's prayers for himself and her mother. 
               "I think now we had better go home; there may be something for us to do. Maud-" Here he stopped. Then he went on again, with eager, rapid speech-it was the last time-the last opportunity: 
               "Dear as you are to me, my child, remember this, if ever it should trouble you that you went away from home, I, your father, am glad that you are going. It will be, as your mother says, the best for you; and it would not speak well for us if we should ever hinder the good fortune of our child. You are going to a new life. It should be a happy one. You have been a good and dutiful daughter to us, Maud; God bless you for it. God Almighty bless you for the fifteen years that you have given us." 
               Perrine's voice grew husky, and was choked in the exertion he made to say these words. By a mighty effort they were kept from ending in a sob. 
               Maud caught his spirit-the anguish as well as the resolution-but she could not speak; it had been as much as the strong man could do. She would have comforted him had she been able; for already in imagination she had gone and had come again, and all the indefinite forms that floated through the golden future were become palpable and real, so that she almost forgot that she must yet go forth with grief, so glowing was the vision of her joyous return. But nothing could she say of this. Nothing. And so when her father took her hand, and moved on toward the house, and struggled with his grief so successfully that the traces of its violence disappeared before they came back to their door; she, also, led by him, in the conquest of all outward demonstration of her grief, was calm and still. 
               Of the actual moments of parting between Abigail Saltonstall and her child, nothing here is to be said, except that the moments came and went, and were always to be remembered, because they were a time of parting; further of that time, I may not speak. 
               Nor is there much remaining to be said of the farm-house that Maud Saltonstall was leaving, and of those who should abide there till their death. 
               The parting over which left Abigail alone in the house, she stood in the porch, where we first beheld her, watching the wagon which bore away Margaret Gladstone and Maud to the town on the coast, a dozen miles away, where they were to wait the vessel which should convey them to their destined port. 
               She was alone; there was no longer human heart near for her to strengthen; the grief she had silenced had no further necessity of silence. How did she bear it, then? 
               Nothing repented she of what she had done, though she clung to the conviction that she had availed herself of the decree of Providence; but now it was her own loss, instead of the advantage Maud should derive from the removal, that she dwelt upon. She was wholly one with Perrine in her grief, and her struggle ended before his. 
               What seemed worthy to be done? To bring the house to order, after the confusion occasioned by the preparations for the departure, was her impulse, when the storm of tears which surprised her had passed, but not been driven away, was a trivial expedient, and she despatched the business with a haste that had scorn in it, as though she had waived aside an impertinent demand of the time. Her heart was ruling its own province, free, for the hour, from all encroachments and intrusions of her will. Apart stood the Will surveying the Heart, but not in dismay; it was quite certain that the hour of repossession would return. 
               Memory was active in the heart this day. Maud's infancy, her childhood, her young maidenhood, all passed in review before the mother, who sat there in the lonely house while the child was borne away from her to burial amid the shadows of the future: to burial she was borne, but the dead have to the living instant resurrection; we never think of them as more than passed away. So to that mother of her child, Maud was passing through the obscure shadows and the valley now. Soon she would enter on the new life beyond; and, as saintly souls fashion their view of Paradise, and prophetic souls dwell therein, so was this future fashioned for her daughter in the mind of Abigail. 
               And it was through such view as this that the strong will of the woman was to return to the heart of the mother. But the returning will did not enter on its former occupancy. The heart received it, but in a spirit that was new to it. Meanwhile, it was not overwhelmed or eclipsed, neither modified to the implication of a surrender of itself. But if she had spoken there would have been a change in her voice, betokening a radical change elsewhere. Her step and her bearing, too, betokened it. Bound no longer by the necessity of sustaining others, the hard and cruel pain left her; an anguish that was more easily borne, and more hopeful because better befitting her human nature, took its place. She stepped from the outpost to a firmer ground. It was but a step, but the whole prospect discerned from it was changed. A softer light was over heaven-a milder light upon the earth. The skies were no longer an impassable wall that was never to be penetrated, nor the earth ground cursed for their sakes. Heaven had a gate, and earth a path that led to it. 
               When, after two days and nights, Perrine Saltonstall returned alone to the farm-house, he saw this change, and felt it. As day after day went on, he felt it more and more. 
               The struggle which he also had survived left him not the same it found him. 
               If any soul shall say these lives had passed through the Red Sea, and escaped by a miracle from their Land of Bondage; that their heart was restored to them as the flesh of a little child; that their Loss was yet their Gain; God working in them past their knowledge, taking their weapons from their hands, and dealing with them as with rebellious, but not hated children-that soul will have but penetrated beneath neath the surface of an absolute Truth, and may on that account go forth with more rejoicing. 
               Of others beside Perrine and Abigail the world's history preserves brief and broken record; to others besides them the earth has nevertheless proved a scene of miracle-a place of hopeless sepulture, and of hopeful resurrection-of victory. 
             
             
                
               XV. A HOUSE AND ITS OCCUPANTS. 
               HAD the Reverend Justin Rossiter not occupied the commanding position he held among the clergy of the Commonwealth, so that his dwelling and his person could not be mistaken for any other in the town, the parsonage would have been no bad preparation for introduction to the man. 
               The house was built for him; his genius stood confessed in its four walls and projecting porch and windows. It had been planned and arranged with a scrupulous regard to the expense. Every superfluous ornament had been conscientiously rejected. The ministry of the beautiful had no point of contact and no line of correspondence in the ministry of Mr. Rossiter. Of the money which the people had to expend on this bit of church property, the most had been made; but one could not say the best, with a good conscience. 
               Humble, unpretentious, as the house must be, there was no need of thrusting gloom into the very face of it. That the front windows of the dwelling were always closed, and the paper curtains rarely rolled, was a part of housekeeping economy; but that the roof and front wall, and the pine trees ranged along the walk, should conspire to make the spot conspicuous for unattractiveness, this was more than an architectural delinquency and hideous blunder-it was a real sin. 
               The preacher was like a parchment roll covered with hieroglyphics glyphics. There was one person in the world, and only one, who could have deciphered all of them. And to that soul, as oftentimes it chances, the hieroglyphs could not be submitted. He was a profound student, who passed his life in his study; for however much he walked about among his parishioners-and no one ever charged him with pastoral negligence-he was still constantly and ever living in his study. He was a person that lived and moved in a state of spiritual exaltation that gave of itself a constant evidence; even in the movements of the man, in the style of his garments, the cut of his hair, every thread of which stood erect from his head; in the arched eyebrows, and in the habit, not hypocritical, yet more habitual than devotional, of uplifting his light-gray eyes. His figure was rather above the common height; and John Calvin, fasting on his bread and water, could not have borne about in his person clearer indication that he was fashioned for grappling with spiritual rather than mundane powers, than did the slight, thin figure of the Rev. Justin Rossiter. 
               One would never have thought, however fastidious, of accusing an authority like this, a man who, though hardly in his prime, had achieved the greatest distinctions in scholarship, and who was held to be "a light of the western churches," as Cotton Mather hath it, of rude and inconsiderate manners; yet his nature was far from polished, even to the degree that might have been looked for when all his eminent characteristics and qualifications were borne in mind. The inward and spiritual grace had been sought to a neglect of the outward and physical. It might be argued-and I would not oppose the argument-that the one growth involves the other. The fact, as stated in regard to Mr. Rossiter, may be accounted for; he was abrupt, absent, stern, because he was in all respects, in occupation, and in aspiration, another man than that of which his youth gave promise. He was by nature genial, but who would have believed it? and his religious principles had been cultivated in a way that left room for admiration and surprise. Admiration, that a soil apparently so poor had been made to bring forth such an abundance of really precious fruit, and surprise that it had done so under such cultivation. For he had not the wide sympathy and generous comprehension that rendered it possible for him to become, under apostolic limitations, all things to all men, nor the tender-heartedness to refrain, even where no judgment was required of him, from the severest exercise of his prerogatives. 
               In the energy of his zeal, and the entireness of his surrender to his own convictions, as to the way in which God intended his work to be carried forward among men, he spent himself in labors, intellectual and pastoral, with an ardor which seemed to look upon a regard to his physical well-being as nothing short of selfish sin. What was his mortal frame but the engine that should perform the spirit's service? He never spared it; and he as little thought of sparing others. 
               This ceaseless activity of brain, and neglect of the laws of physical well-being, had wrought a legitimate effect upon him; the inward had avenged itself upon the outward man, and the outward man again retaliated. His theology, "stern, vigilant, relentless," was such as rendered all this possible. He was not a merciful man-not to that abstraction, his flock-neither to that other abstraction, himself. He was less a shepherd than a lawgiver and judge, where the first was concerned; and in his own affairs he was his worst enemy. 
               Nature had given him other tendencies than these he now manifested; education, and circumstance, and time, had shaped him into a solid, but narrow character. 
               He forgot, or seemed to forget, that the world had been redeemed. It was still lying under the darkness of the curse. He made little of the fact that in Christ's resurrection the positive triumph of Christianity was proclaimed, and that with Him the reign of peace upon the earth began. Forgetting that the deliverance was henceforth to go on in the soul in testimony that the victory over Death and Hell already was achieved, that the battle was fought, and the bound were to be delivered; urged on by his dominant will, and restless, untiring energy, he would never have spared in any persecution, though even now he, and such as he, found their chief glory in the fact that they were the victims of a persecution. 
               Mr. Rossiter had not been educated with a view to filling any pastoral office. While yet a young man, he took to wife a beautiful young girl, whose loveliness was sufficient to have exhausted a greater than his capacity of loving. But before his eyes beheld her, that capacity had been exhausted. He had spent himself in one throe of passion that ruined, but did not break his heart; and had married because he was afraid to be alone. 
               When once engrossed in theological studies he left his wife far behind him. Not in intellectual labors merely. It is not always to the glory of a man that he outstrips his companions-the honors are conditional. Grace Rossiter neither could nor would accompany her husband in the career on which he entered. Thus the sympathy between them seemed to lessen-but in reality it was quite as deep as it had ever been. For Grace Rossiter had not actually loved her husband, but the person she imagined him to be. It was to this being of her imagination that she was faithful through all her mortal life. 
               From the day that Mr. Rossiter gave evidence in his prayers and daily life of the dark stern faith he entertained, a struggle began in his wife's soul that bade fair to never end. Conscious of her inability to confute his arguments; shrinking from attesting her ability or inability; doubtful of her position; destitute of that power of speech in which a woman of stronger nerves, and less dependent mind, might have given utterance to the many dissenting thoughts lurking in her heart, instead of attempting to seek any degree of external deliverance, she prayed. She could but follow her husband band in a spiritless, self-suspicious manner, afar off. But there was surely some great wrong in this. There was no fulfillment in it of her maiden dream. She did not choose to look upon it in this light. But, how he had toiled and striven, working out his soul's salvation! and she, how idle, how vain, worthless, unfit for him! Led on by such convictions as these, she passed, by degrees, in the conformity of her affection, from her old, gleeful, joyous self, into the proper type of a grave Puritan clergyman's wife. Over her real nature draped a calm propriety that never took the name of sadness, yet was nothing less; insensibly it fell, and it became a feature of her character, as moss and silence come in time to be the features of a ruin. 
               In this calmness was nothing that repelled. Far from it. Grace Rossiter loved her husband as she loved her daughter, Hope; love with her was deep and true as life. She gave of her own being where she loved. And great was the value she attached to anything that looked like a return. Her voice was always kind; no coldness or indifference could appear in her manner; though she supported the dignity of her position well, it was rather through the kindness of her tender heart, than otherwise: her charity and her hope were greater than her faith-and, to her husband's mind, she missed the greatest of the three. 
               There are natures that can draw nourishment from rocks, such is their capacity of adaptation. There was little of a genial nature in Grace Rossiter's 
                     suroundings
                     surroundings
                  -little that was calculated to give her hearty satisfaction. But it had become her habit-for love with her was surrender-to regard in Mr. Rossiter the very perfection of judgment, discretion, and spirituality. It was invariably herself she questioned, not him, when there was diversity in their opinions. And she did not argue with him; for she doubted not that the time would sometime come when she should be able to think and feel with him, as she fancied, but very foolishly, they had done once. 
               It was a pleasant sight to see; for the pain a clear observation of the truth would have occasioned, never was occasioned by her forgetfulness or indiscretion. It was a pleasant sight to see Mrs. Grace Rossiter in the occupancy of the place she held as the wife of a man who was esteemed a great man in the community; doubly great by virtue of his office, and his reported capacity for filling it. To see how proud she really was of him, and how she, day by day, accommodated herself to all that was expected of her as his wife. 
               Yet of late she had arrived at what seemed a crisis in her spiritual affairs; she could no longer trust herself or him in these spiritual concerns. During the past year, fears and suspicions as to her real condition had been gathering in the mind of Mr. Rossiter, and he had labored in accordance with his convictions of duty for the conversion of his wife. Her conversion was by no means clear to his mind-many things conspired to make him doubt it; the "beauty of holiness"-what he held to be such-did not become apparent to him when he surveyed the fruits of her life. 
               In answer to her prayers-prayers offered day and night in her continual aspiration-the Holy Spirit had illuminated her heart. But what might this resistance purport-resistance offered in spite of the charity and compassion which was become the law of her heart and mind: the resistance offered by both heart and mind to the dark and rigorous preaching of Mr. Rossiter? Had it no other foundation than mere weak sentiment, as his words seemed sometimes to indicate? What heart-killing, fearful process of initiation yet remained for her? Was all this holy joy, which, under and above her, and around her, seemed all-sufficient for her, which seemed to open the heavens to her view and reception-was all this really of no meaning and no worth? And the certainty of her conviction that old things had passed away, and all things become new, must this remain a fact in which she should evermore rejoice alone? 
               Something of her old doubts and of these new doubts, in some way and in some degree, became known to Mr. Rossiter. Agonies of despair and ecstasies of hope were the indispensable indications and proofs of a work of grace to his mind. His wife had never passed through them. She never could-at least she never had given evidence of states of mind from which one might predicate such a possibility; and he would not yield in his judgment the necessity of such an experience before she, or any for her, could indulge in hope. In the agonizing, to enter at the strait gate there must be a visible demonstration; it was impossible to imagine other circumstances of admission: by fastings and prayers without number did he beseech for that imperilled soul. 
               In a nature less firm in its integrity, his very zeal might have excited the phenomena for which he anxiously looked and prayerfully longed-might have excited it to their mutual deception; but she was too true for any such delusion. 
               Hope, their daughter, was their only child. She was born with her father's spirit-a spirit which, from the first hour of capacity, had been nourished by him. Nurtured and fostered by the mother also was it; for, by the potent influence of her mother's devotion, he was brought constantly before the child's mind as the image of all perfection, as well as of all authority. 
               And duly her strong will chose the things that he had chosen; her feet entered the path by which he had moved onward to his present hold. Hope's play-room was her father's study. But no boisterous sport ever went on there. The pictures her infant imagination fashioned were from the old books that made his library, rather than the green fields and singing birds, and sunshine. She stood by her father's table, her infant eyes looking over the pages of the books lying open there for reference or study, and she seemed to draw in their spirit, as a mountain child draws in the spirit of health and freedom with his expanding years. In her statue-like quiet, as she stood beside him, there was nothing to distract the attention of the student from his book, or the pen of the writer from his page; occasionally he lifted his eyes to her when she stood resting her head upon her hand, absorbed in looking at the pages, long before she learned to read them, and he would pause a moment to dream of the time when he should begin to instruct her-a rare student would she be! Hope's future was the only bright dream in which her father ever indulged-Hope, the prodigy, whose intellect was in his hands to mould. 
               But there was that in her childhood which was a weight upon her mother's heart. It was a childhood so unlike her own, and her own had been so full of happiness. So little of the child was there in Hope-so little of the light, gay heart had she-so poor was she in impulses of fun and laughter, so careless of all sports. 
               Hope had her mother's rich luxuriant hair, but not her features; her forehead was broader and higher; her mouth was indicative of a colder, sterner spirit; her nostril had a prouder curl; her eyes were brilliant, though not cold. She saddened the discerning thought that took cognizance of her. Yet why? Fair were her outward fortunes. She was the daughter of a man who was rising every day in public estimation; of one whose abilities and profession made him a prominent man of his time; the daughter of a beautiful and loving-hearted woman; every advantage of education that could be wished was hers; and her own gifts and graces were not few. It was nothing in her fortune that saddened the heart of the thoughtful beholder. Nor was it a prescience of passions which would work her misery, or occasion her great struggle in her development. Wholly within her own control the child bade fair to be. And the manner of her education bore out the supposition. And yet she saddened the discerning thought. 
               Her religious experience, even in her extreme youth, had been a rich one to her father's mind. He had dwelt upon it in his meditations, as Mr. Stanton had theorized on it in his; he had thanked God for it in public, and none the less heartily in private; he had made it the theme of many a conversation with his wife before he became uncertain of her spiritual condition, and since then he had commended to her a prayerful contemplation of this work of abounding grace. 
               And the mother had made her child her study; and the father had frequently, for her edification, led Hope over the ground of her experience, and obediently Hope had at such times dwelt on its particulars, with an utterance such as had been impossible in one of her years without her training. This religious enthusiasm, so liable to exaggeration and unintentional misrepresentation, bore upon the mind of Grace. Was she incapable of learning what her child had learned? Clearly, Hope was a saint in her father's eyes. Well, then, what wonder if, with quick childish instinct and forced intelligence, perceiving this, she should lay hold of the fact, justified in doing so by the estimate she had been led to place upon her father's words or acts, and should in turn come to look upon herself in the same light! What wonder if, living, as she did, through her affections, the heart of Grace Rossiter should be induced to nothing less than an agony of striving thereby: an agony of striving not to enter at the strait gate-she had entered already, and was walking in that path-but of striving to apprehend this unknown experience to which she was not equal; that she should begin to look forward with longing for the change that would necessarily take place, in less or greater degree, on the arrival of the teacher who was to make her home in the family of the Rev. Justin Rositer? 
               The teacher, Margaret Gladstone. 
             
             
                
               XVI. THE HARBOR. 
               MR. ROSSITER came down from his study with the light in his hand, leaving thus the entire front of the house a blank wall of darkness, for never a light, save one, except on rare and great occasions, was to be seen streaming from the windows of the parsonage that opened on the street; and this light, except on those occasions, beamed from the window over the front door of the house-for that hall-room was the clergyman's study. 
               He came down with the light, and the foot passengers making their way towards the house, or in that direction, were left to plod on as they best could, through the dark and rainy night. 
               He came down in his study gown, at that unwonted early hour, in haste, it seemed, and placing his lamp on the table, and taking his stand in front of the fire, he made a silent survey of the room, a survey which took in even the cat that was curled up under Hope's chair, and then observed: 
               "Grace, did you not hear the cannon?" 
               "The cannon? no, dear. To-night?" 
               "Perhaps half an hour ago. I was busy at the time, and noticed nothing except the roar. The ship is in, I conclude." 
               "And the teacher?" exclaimed Grace, with animation, starting up, but becoming instantly as dignified as Mr. Rossiter, by his surprised look, seemed to expect her to be "on an occasion like this." 
                
               He looked from Grace to his daughter, who was still at the table, not reading, for her father was in the room, and speaking, but she kept the page open, only her eyes were drawn from it. During the moment that he looked for the words which should properly express his doubt as to whether it were not his duty to go down to the landing, there was a sound of feet upon the doorstep, and a loud knock at the door, that sent an echo through the house; it satisfied Mrs. Rossiter that the stranger had come. 
               But whether her husband shared her premonition it was impossible to say, for immediately he took up his lamp, and without a word, proceeded through the entry to the door. 
               He held the light shaded in his hand, as he opened the door, and he could just discern the figures outside-two figures-of a woman and a child; there was a small trunk at their feet-deposited there by their guide, who had left them; but this trunk he did not see. 
               Some person in great stress of mind or body, Mr. Rossiter concluded, for he had already settled that it was not the expected guest, she was to come alone, and he stepped back within the entry with his pastoral, rather than his friendly, greeting. 
               "Come in, that I may see you, and hear your desire; the storm beats on you there," said he. Somewhat stiffly the words sounded, considering how stormy the night was, and that those whom he addressed were a woman and a child. 
               Miss Gladstone, leading Maud Saltonstall by the hand, went in; as she did so, she said: 
               "The guide that brought us here assured us that this was the house of the Rev. Mr. Rossiter. I am Margaret Gladstone, whom, I trust, you were expecting. There is a trunk just on the step without, if you-" 
               High up the minister was holding his lamp, and seriously he examined the face on which the light fell strongest, the face of Miss Gladstone. When she mentioned her name a positive smile crossed his face-of warmer cordiality than would have appeared there had he not been taken by surprise. In his haste to welcome her, and to get in the trunk, and the difficulty he had in concluding what the child she had with her could mean, Mr. Rossiter, never quite himself out of his study, became confused in his mind as to the proper progress of his duties, and, caught by the sound of the rain that now fell in torrents, he ran to the door with the light, brought in the tiny trunk, closed the door, and extinguished the light in so doing, and was then prepared to lead Miss Gladstone through the dark passage way into the room where his wife and daughter were. 
               It was a gloomy, scantily furnished apartment at best; never could it have a more cheery look than now to these travellers coming in from the dangers of the sea, and the discomforts of the night. But the impression made upon them, was not, to speak the truth, cheery. Small as the room was, there was still place for many heavy shadows there, even the figure of the young girl at the table did not enliven it. She did not look like one whose voice would make music in the house-whose ways would compel all hearts to cheerfulness-whose activities, though useless, would shorten the days, and sweeten the family joys. 
               She rose up with her mother as the door opened, and her father entered, but her face had a more abstracted and severe expression than that of Mrs. Rossiter. She would be sure not to commit herself by any word of welcome until convinced that it would be deserved. Oh, how she had starved herself on her Hebrew, Greek, and Latin! 
               But there was that in the voice of the minister's wife, that in her mild and lovely face, that set the heart of the newcomer at rest at the first glance. Without even a questioning in her eyes, Grace bade her, and the young girl she brought, a cordial welcome, and from that moment never ceased her hospitable service until, refreshed by her endeavors, the lady and the child-not now the strange woman and girl, mind!-sat by the gloomy parsonage fire-place-think of a gloomy fire-place!-with the minister's family; and the story, already told in fragments, was re-told, beginning with the history of the teacher's longing to dwell among her brethren in the faith, and to aid them in the performance of some good work, until the hour that found them waiting for admission at the parsonage door. Nothing of the tale was omitted that they needed to know. The self-collected spirit in which it was told, and the manner of her telling that which pertained especially to Maud Saltonstall, showed that Margaret Gladstone not only understood what she would do, but was certain of the way in which she should do it;-revealed also some certain knowledge of the people with whom her lot was now for a season cast. 
               Her personal presence, indeed, was such as enabled her to speak with a certain authority which in another might have been subjected to a questioning. But it was not questioned here. How could it be? Was she not Margaret Gladstone? Margaret Gladstone, though to her career they might be strangers-Margaret, albeit, they knew nothing of her fame and crown. Her steady calmness of look, utterance, and person, controlled their nervous organizations, at least during the time of her speaking, and indeed during her presence. And when she took Maud's hand, and held it, and said, "So it happened that I came to your house, Mr. Rossiter, not alone, as we anticipated, but bringing my little girl with me. I hope that she and your own daughter may be good friends while we remain." When she spoke thus, no one dissented, even by so much as a look, from the kindly wish which was expressed with so much dignity and candor. But Hope and Maud, it must be confessed, did not look as though there was a probability of a mutual embrace between them. They glanced at each other, and gazed on each other, but with more curiosity than favor. Hope's eyes were never withdrawn drawn from the new-comers, they wandered from one to the other discerning what they could; but Maud, except while Miss Gladstone spoke of her, was looking often into the face of Mrs. Rossiter, and but rarely glanced at Hope. 
               The fine and well-developed figure of Miss Gladstone presented a marked contrast to the persons that surrounded her. Without assuming anything she sat among them as the head of the household, while yet her bearing became her as a stranger and a guest. Mr. Rossiter, thin, erect, and of a stately carriage, as a student and divine might be expected to adopt, was like a shade among the shadows in the contrast. 
               His wife, that small, fair, kindly woman, gracefully and well as she came into this connection, did not of herself suggest a contrast-in her abundant sympathy and gentle friendliness she left nothing to be desired in the hostess; yet she was not descended from the same royal line as Margaret Gladstone. She was more dependent on others for her joy: the eye of faith was not so clear that she could see the ever tranquil sky, when to the eye of sense clouds and darkness veiled it. She would never, by impulse or by principle, be led to such an altar for her worship, or to a field for labors in a strange land, solitary, independent, devoted to a service which should mar all worldly fortunes. 
               And there was Hope-her father's child-the woman-the only kind of woman he could understand and counsel. But what sort of heart was it that throbbed in that bosom of young maidenhood? what spirit looked out from her eyes? and did an angel keep watch over her lips, suggesting thoughts which were unuttered while she remained a listener in this circle, as became her years? If it was an angel Maud Saltonstall was strangely cold in the presence. Why did she not quicken, and glow, and enter then and there into the possession of all she had anticipated? 
               In this group, I repeat, Margaret Gladstone was a feature. Indeed she sat among them as a queen might do among her household friends-a queen without her crown. Could poor Kensett but have seen her then, this is precisely what he would have said. But I trust she is as dear to us as to him. 
               Her bearing and address were such as from the first moment of her appearing there, won the respect, and demanded the confidence of the house. Her mere presence was an influence which one who, in the least, could feel it, would not be able to escape. Mrs. Rossiter felt it, and was calm and peaceful as a flower in the sun, in spite of the accession to her domestic cares. Hope felt it, and was not entirely at ease. Even while she listened to the story of the shipwreck, though interested in spite of herself, she was impatient of all this talk, which broke in upon the usual evening occupation, and she never for an instant quite forgot the page and line at which her reading had been interrupted. 
               Not so her father. Stiff and stern his image might still have been, but while those new-comers were before him, his mind had wholly dropped the harness it had worn for years. He listened and reflected, as no man or woman on the earth, least of all the members of the little circle gathered in that room, could ever have suspected possible with him. 
               It was not Miss Gladstone with whom he talked-it was not she who awakened his old memories, giving impetus to his reflections. The unexpected child-the one-too-many whom he had noticed hardly by a word-she it was who let in that night upon the minister a light from the old days of his youth-the long-forgotten days of youth. And a dark shape uncoiled itself from the deep shadow of the past; there was life in the monster, it hissed in his hearing, for in that hour, that hour at the least, it gave him back the ruin of his youth. 
               But his heart-for he judged himself when he beheld the shape and heard the hiss-his heart was safe enough. He looked at Grace, his wife, his heart was safe enough-no sting lurked there. Had it transferred itself into his brain then? For as he gazed upon that child's face his brain was conscious of assault: in his soul's dominion his old Adversary stood erect and strong. How had it entered THERE? Who was this girl? Maud Saltonstall, Miss Gladstone said. Well. Maud Saltonstall: why was she there? 
               Miss Gladstone had adopted her, out of gratitude-gratitude to God and man; willingness to signalize her deliverance by a new consecration of her life to labors of love. 
               But why, of all the points along a thousand miles of coast, had the ship in which she sailed been lost where the Pilgrim went down? He said to himself, ritualist in spite of himself, though he abhorred the name, God rules the wind and wave; but he was not satisfied with that brief reply of faith. 
               Why had her life, of all those lives, alone been saved and heard of? Again he answered from his book of formula-PROVIDENCE; and the answer did not suffice him. 
               And how, again, should it so fall out, that this child must needs be given to her care, and brought to his dwelling? He only knew to answer-Providence. 
               What should be done with her then? 
               To this question he was dumb. He would not answer, "Let Providence direct." But his path was darker from the moment of her coming than it had been in many a year. Its shadow overcast him, so that his wife beheld it, and it had a power to sadden in some small degree the heart of Margaret Gladstone when she went for the first time to sleep under the parsonage roof. The nearest approach she made, however, to the cause of the depression-which she would not acknowledge, because she did not recognize it as the result of a near cause-was in her reflection on the significant fact that in his prayer that night Mr. Rossiter had made no manner of allusion to Maud Saltonstall. But to the reflection she made this additament: "She will not long be one too many here; she will brighten up their gloom; they will all love her; and who can tell but her mission will be more to the purpose than mine?" And Margaret kissed Maud, who had already fallen into a slumber-kissed her on her smiling mouth, and on her noble forehead. 
             
             
                
               XVII. HOPE AND MAUD. 
               BRIGHT was the morning light that greeted the waking eyes of Maud Saltonstall. 
               Miss Gladstone's day had already begun; she had risen, and gone forth. And Maud heard her voice as she was speaking below. So Maud also arose, and while she made haste to dress herself in the quaint garments of her mother's fashioning, she gazed around the room of which last night, her eyes being so full of sleep, she took no observation. . . . . . But the sound of that voice below had the effect to weaken every other impression, and the solitary picture on the white wall opposite the window, the meagre strip of carpeting before the bed, sole ornaments of the apartment, could not detain her when she had fastened her collar, and smoothed her hair again. 
               Hastily she went out from the chamber; but when she opened the door the spirit of the house seemed to descend upon her. No fleet steps were they that went down the steep and winding staircase to the rooms below, and but for the sound of that voice to draw her on, I know not how she would have found her way into the room where Mrs. Rossiter was busy doing the double duty of host and house keeper. 
               Blessings on the memory of the minister's wife, for the smile with which she looked at the shy figure, to whom diffidence dence was so strange and evil an experience, as Maud entered the room. Blessings on the friendliness that sent her out at the sound of Mr. Rossiter's step upon the stair, away into the garden to look at the few flowers blooming there. 
               From her window, Hope Rossiter saw Maud Saltonstall as she walked into the garden; from her window-deliberate always in her doings-she surveyed the person of the child, and, finally, because it was her duty, she descended to join her. 
               As she came up to the flower patch, she said, in her rather high-pitched, and very clear and distinct voice: 
               "Good morning, Maud." 
               To which, looking at her, Maud responded- 
               "Good morning." 
               "My name is Hope." 
               "Good morning, Hope. Is this your garden?" 
               "No; it is my mother's." 
               "You work here, don't you?" 
               "No; I am not fond of gardening," answered Hope carelessly. "I had rather dig among old roots. Mr. Stanton used to say it was a strange taste for a girl so young as I. Do you think so?" 
               Now, Hope Rossiter was so well persuaded that Maud Saltonstall did not understand her last allusion, that, had she been closely questioned concerning its intent, she could not have concealed the vanity that prompted it; she was quite as certain that Maud would not comprehend her when she spoke thus, as she was that she did not when the question was asked, innocent of a suspicion: 
               "What old roots, Hope?" 
               Hope drew back from the questioner, and her slight figure in its posture gave evidence of the pride of her heart, as she explained her meaning. She mistook the sudden change of the subject made by Maud in her next speaking for the uneasiness easiness of a conscious ignorance seeking to avoid its own betrayal by a retreat to another ground. 
               "My mother has some flower beds," 
               "Like these?" asked Hope carelessly, with her foot pointing to those before her. 
               "No." 
               "Are they prettier?" 
               "Yes; they are in blossom now. We like them better than you like yours." 
               "Who will take care of them now that you have come away? Who did you leave at home?" 
               "My father and mother." 
               "What! alone? Was there no one else? Were you their only child?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Did you desire to come?" 
               There was that in the tone of the speaker's voice that drew tears from the eyes of Maud; yet, she looked straight at Hope-how should she think those words were meant to try her?-and even smiled while she struggled to command herself. 
               "My mother wanted me to come," she said; "and I did desire to besides," she continued. 
               "But why should you? I do not see . . . . ." asked Hope. 
               "Miss Gladstone was coming." 
               "Ah!. . . . . She was a stranger to you, though." 
               "I wanted to be taught by her. She never was like a stranger." 
               "Who taught you?" 
               "My father and mother." 
               "Ah!" repeated Hope, with the same significance of tone that marked her former exclamation. The word seemed a note of understanding instead of interrogation. 
                
               "How long is it, do you think, that you shall be away from them?" 
               "I do not know that," answered Maud, her own innocence alone preventing this inquisitorial conversation from being a very disagreeable one. 
               "You will be content here, you think?" 
               "I must be-yes, I shall-Miss Gladstone will be here." Maud looked thoughtfully at Hope as she made this answer, it was the truest answer she could give. 
               "Do you think that you will love to study?" 
               "I cannot tell." The doubt seemed a fresh one to Maud's mind. "Do you love it?" she asked of Hope. 
               "Better than anything!" exclaimed Hope Rossiter, warming at the thought. The enthusiasm of her reply, so different from her former manner, roused Maud. 
               "Do you really love it better than anything?" she asked in wonder. 
               "Than anything that I can do? Yes; with all my heart." 
               "Where do you study?" 
               "In my own room-though sometimes with father." 
               "Do you go to school?" 
               "No." 
               "Does your mother study too?" 
               "No; she does not care for it much." 
               At that intelligence Maud's heart took courage; and, as if she could not understand what Hope had said, she asked: 
               "Do you really like it better than to walk about in the woods, and hear the birds?" 
               A light laugh, that had something of scorn in it; prefaced Hope's reply. There was a deal of meaning in that laugh. 
               "Why," said she, "it is only idleness that walks in the woods to hear the birds sing. I never have any time. If I walk there it is for some other purpose." 
               "For what, I wonder," said Maud, indeed wonderingly. 
               "Oh, to gather flowers," carelessly answered Hope, who yielded to the conversation, so her looks, gestures, and tones said, as though she thus extended an indulgence towards the child, for though there were not many months between them it was very obvious that, according to her thinking, Maud was but a child. 
               But Maud understood nothing of this, and her face brightened at Hope's last answer, and she said, gladly: 
               "Then you do love flowers?" 
               "I gather them for the herbarium, or I used when studying botany," returned Hope. I've not been to the woods this summer. I have no time for that. It is only children that can find the time." 
               "My mother calls me a child," said Maud, looking inquiringly at Hope, as if seeking to discover what the difference was between them that Hope should speak of childhood as a vanished day; and she asked,"How old are you?" 
               "I am sixteen," said Hope; "and you?" 
               "Nearly the same." 
               Hope had settled it in her mind that the difference between them was not to be computed by years, when she said: 
               "I was born in January, the beginning of the year." 
               Maud did not understand that speaking, yet she said: 
               "I was born in June, the first summer month." 
               It was to discern the intention of this word, that Hope Rossiter looked so curiously at Maud Saltonstall, it was to learn her yet further that she went on: 
               "Now that you have come here on purpose to study, you will like it, will you not?" 
               "Miss Gladstone said that I should find it very pleasant, and so I shall, I know; but how I cannot tell." Indisputably there was truth in this last expression, and Hope needed not to seek far for its interpretation. 
               "You will be going to school. I think that you will like that better than to study by yourself. What is your mother's name?" 
                
               "Her name is Abigail. What is yours?" 
               "Grace." 
               "Grace. That is a pretty name, prettier than Hope, Hope-that is what we do when we long for anything. It should be my name, I think." 
               "Why do you think so?" 
               "I have so many hopes-for so many things." Maud's eyes half closed-she was dreaming by herself there in the bright, fresh morning; dreaming with Hope Rossiter by her side beholding, questioning: Hope, whose dreams were made of sterner stuff, and for a colder climate than the fair and soft illusions woven of the thoughts of Maud. 
               "Of what things?" asked Hope, though not without a little hesitation, and with a friendlier and more confidential tone than she had yet used. 
               "I cannot tell-something to come"-Maud said, with a sudden confidence, which she did not understand as such; since suspicions she had none to waive, it seemed merely as if all at once she had acquired some new power of utterance. "Do you remember what it says about the morning stars singing together for joy? I think that I shall hear them some day." A deep flush, not of embarrassment, but emotion, overspread Maud's face as she said these words, looking as she spoke them with longing in her inquiry, to the face of Hope Rossiter. Hope, who was of her own age-her companion-surely they should have the same thoughts, the same longings, the same dreams! But Hope said: 
               "That is figurative Hebrew language. Do you not know it? The beauty of creation is another name for its joy. They sung for joy-that means they rolled on in their appointed way, according to the will of the Creator. But there can be no singing without a voice." 
               "I do not know," mused Maud, doubtingly. 
               "Can there be?" asked Hope, surprised, perhaps quite as much at Maud's doubt as at her words. 
                
               "Don't you sing-in your heart-making melody? that is scripture too." 
               "I have never thought of singing. I sometimes went to Mr. Stanton's class when he was here, but I am not very fond of it, I have been fond of study, and I know more about that. But-do you hope for nothing more?" 
               "Yes; I hope that I shall some day know what it is that I keep thinking, and how to say it. I would like to say it." 
               "Are you happy?" gravely questioned Hope. 
               "Yes," as gravely answered Maud. 
               "What makes you so? 
               "Everything, I think." 
               "But one thing more than everything, does there not?" 
               "Yes," said Maud, very softly. 
               "What is that, Maud Saltonstall?" 
               "I cannot speak it." 
               Hope Rossiter looked at Maud. Nothing could she make of the soft smile that was beaming from the face that looked now so full of friendly confidence upon her. As much to the unknown and trusted future as to herself, this smile was given, and Hope so far perceived this as to feel that there was something here that passed her understanding. 
               "My mother's name is Grace," she said, starting from a new point in the desire for discovery. "That name sounds sweet to you, and I think that I know why-it means more than my name means." 
               "Grace," repeated Maud; "what does that mean?" 
               "Do you not know?" 
               A very real horror was in this exclamation; it made Maud hesitate before she confessed herself by a reiteration. 
               "I do not know," she said; "but I think she is well called." 
               "Why, then, can you think so if you do not understand?" 
               "It sounds so dear." 
               This was at least a favorable condition of nature. Seed sown in such a soil, what might it not bring forth? Such was Hope Rossiter's first thought-her words were a modified expression of it. 
               "We are in a state of nature when we are alien from God; but in a state of grace when reconciled to Him. No wonder that it should sound, as you say, so dear. You are fond of beautiful things. Natural objects that are most graceful, are the most beautiful. Spirits which have been most thoroughly subjected to divine grace are the most perfect." 
               "Divine grace!" repeated Maud thoughtfully, impressed by, if not seemingly observant of, the altered tone in which these words were spoken. For Hope now felt herself at home, and was thoroughly aware of the advantage she had here. 
             
             
                
               XVIII. THREE GLIMPSES. 
               BUT Hope's opportunity of questioning and exhortation vanished, even as it opened to view, for a bright warm smile ran over Maud's face that certainly was not occasioned by those last spoken words of Hope. No, it was the approach of Mrs. Rossiter, whom Maud went hastily to meet, until she came to the lady, and her words told the readiness with which her thoughts ran back to the theme with which the conversation with Hope had begun. 
               "May I help you in your garden?" she asked, taking the hand that was offered her, and evidently the smile too, for her face brightened more and more. 
               "Aye, if you will be my little gardener, Maud, I shall be very happy. I know you are fond of the flowers." 
               "Did you know it? Yes, I am. I love them-they are so quiet, and they say so much." 
               With a surprised, yet well pleased, look, Grace Rossiter glanced at her own daughter, and from her to the new comer, who, by these warm words, had found a way brightly and swiftly into her heart. 
               "What do they say to you?" she asked, holding Maud's hand as they walked back to the house. 
               "I could not tell, but I dearly loved to listen in the woods so still and dark." 
               "Listen to what?" asked Hope, speaking out her wonderment ment at all this, but involuntarily softening her voice, in some sort of vague apprehension of the fact that gentle questioning alone would elicit an answer. 
               "To the quiet," replied Maud. 
               Hope laughed at that, but her mother laughed not; some what surprised she looked at the speaker, but she said kindly: 
               "It is very pleasant . . . . . We will now go in, for your father will be waiting to begin the day, Hope. It is quite six o'clock;" and, still holding Maud by the hand, Mrs. Rossiter led the way into the house. 
               They found Mr. Rossiter waiting to begin the day, as his wife had said, but not waiting impatiently; as she began to apprehend when they entered the sitting room. He sat at the stand in the corner, the big Bible open before him, and the psalm book lying on his knee. But his thoughts were not immediately directed to these. By the window sat Miss Gladstone in quiet conversation with him-a conversation which had begun with the shipwreck, but only, as it seemed by mutual consent, prefatorially. For something Margaret had to say-and if she had it not to say, he had it to ask-concerning the child she had brought with her to her new home. 
               On the last night, Mr. Rossiter's mind, as we have seen, was ill at ease concerning this unlooked-for arrival. That he had said little to the child was not so much a cause for comment, as he was a man of but few words at any time; but there was one at least who did divine a cause for this, lying deeper even than the constraining force of habit. This was his wife, who ordinarily shrunk, as she would have shrunk from profanely touching any sacred thing, from presumptuous contemplation of her husband's secret thoughts. 
                
               His ways were past her finding out; she was at least content to believe that they were so, and that his thoughts were high, that she could not attain to them. This deference was a voluntary yielding of her own will to his. His surprise at any other manifestation, did she at any time under any inducement offer it, had the effect to bring her back to the terms of her allegiance, which she had, by her own conduct-of course in no other way-laid down. 
               Some manifestation of this interpretation of his manner toward the child, had been made to Mr. Rossiter's wife, and she said to him when the family had dispersed for the night, and they were alone-said to him with a freedom quite as natural to her as the reserve she ordinarily manifested even in speaking with him-quite as natural, though the words had a strange sound to Mr. Rossiter, and he attributed them, solely to the undesirable excitement into which that night's arrival had thrown her: 
               "Man of faith, can you not leave this matter to the Lord? Is He not still about all your ways? If the girl were an heathen or an infidel, could you not still trust Him, and even rejoice in the opportunity?" 
               He did not ask her of what she was speaking, but said: 
               "I like it not-I like it not! so hastily, so full of spirit, that Grace was emboldened to continue her expostulation. 
               "But is it not a strange thing for you, Justin Rossiter, to be so questioning? If that very godly young man, Jerome Stanton, were but here he would confirm my words. Can anything weigh on you when you look on that fine English face that has come before us? I mind me it is a good thing to be thankful. Let the child go-she is under the charge of that hero in the faith that hath come to us." 
               The hand of the wife, as she spoke, rested softly on the head of her husband. So unusual was this demonstration, from beginning to end, that Mr. Rossiter was at a loss to account for it-and indeed to deal with it. His words seemed uttered with intent to bring her down from her unnatural exaltation to a plain consideration of the truth. 
               "The family will be quite too much for you to look after, Grace," said he. 
               "Never mind me, Mr. Rossiter. It will do me good." 
               Instead of asking an explanation of this word-which might have excited his surprise, so unusual a satisfaction did it proclaim-Mr. Rossiter sighed; and if the sigh meant anything beside indulgence in a habit, it meant that his satisfaction with his wife's view of the existing state of things was not profound. 
               At length he said,"But, Grace, have you considered the effect of a companion like this for Hope? Developed though she is, there is an equality of age at least between these young people. Is it possible that the influence shall be wholly on one side?" 
               "And if it be not," answered Grace Rossiter, "shall we hastily conclude that the influence of this stranger must be all evil? Ah, Justin, it may be she will give Hope a lighter heart and a more cheerful, and would that, think you, be a wrong?" 
               "It is strong meat our daughter lives on," said Rossiter, in his paternal pride, taking a one-sided view of which, in this regard, he seemed alone capable, though in the main habituated to the honest weight of general argument. 
               And his wife could now only return again to the first consideration in which it had proved so pleasant a thing for her to acquiesce, for her heart had anticipated experience here: 
               "Justin, it is a Providence-that is a word against which you are not wont to rebel. What can you do but submit? I mind me such has ever been the tenor of your teaching. The child is ignorant; I well remember there have been others of that style under your care. Is it nothing to you, Mr. Rossiter, that you may help to make her wise?" 
               Another sigh was her answer-a sigh which told that his depression in view of what had happened was quite real, not to be talked away in a moment. Perceiving this, and to turn the current of his thoughts, his wife said: 
               "It will not be the troublesome and vexatious work that it was to our worthy friend Jerome-the teaching I mean." 
               "Jerome Stanton was called to other business," said her husband, in a voice that indicated the wandering of his mind from this topic to that which had engrossed them. And at this point, as if by mutual consent, the conversation ceased between them; but the event that had transpired, the arrival of Miss Gladstone and Maud Saltonstall, was an event in itself sufficiently exciting to prevent sleep from their eyelids many an hour of the night. 
               From the very abundance of his perplexity and disturbance the good man of the house had indulged in the brief words recorded above, and given thus much of his personal experience to another. But it seemed that in every utterance he found a correction-for no sooner were the words spoken than he repented of them; for, whatever befel him spiritually, he never communicated his trouble to his wife. For any such confession he would have chosen a brother in his profession; one in whose experience he might find the interpretation of his own. 
               When he fell asleep, at length, he did not even unconsciously acknowledge the potency of his wife's consolations, or counsel. He considered that the arrangement made for Miss Gladstone's residence in his family was virtually annulled by the encumbrance with which she appeared. There was a method of riddance to which he might conscientiously resort in case the strange child should prove the truth of his convictions, from which statement it might appear that the minister was not "given to hospitality," especially when it is taken into consideration that the new comers would add nothing to the mere expenses of the household. Which expenses, by the way, could not be regarded in the light of a trivial matter by any household of the New World in that day. 
               But it is to be borne in mind, likewise, that Mr. Rossiter was a student, and could endure anything better than a change in his household affairs, especially such change as would infringe in the least upon the order and the quiet of his daily life; and, besides, Maud Saltonstall was Maud Saltonstall. 
               The cheery, light-hearted activity of his wife on this night, and the length to which the unwonted mood had carried her, had surprised, not to say dismayed him. He seemed to derive from it a premonition of universal change; and to a man who esteemed it the utmost of privilege if he may but pursue "the even tenor of his way," what could be worse? 
               But that he was a man of expedients he proved, when the occasion seemed to demand the proof, and he fell asleep before his wife's excited heart allowed her that deliverance-fell asleep at peace, as regarded the main point of the evening's experience. 
               And in the morning he rose, equal to the duties of the day. 
               The first duty that presented itself was a conversation with Miss Gladstone. He found her in the little back sitting room when he came down from his study; and it was she who spoke with him about Maud Saltonstall, not he who spoke with her. In this she had every advantage; a thorough tactician-and such Miss Gladstone was not, further than a generous spirit of humanity and conciliation would necessarily make her-a thorough tactician, I say, could not have managed in this case better than did she. 
               Speaking, as she did, sincerely from her heart, it was very easily, and very distinctly, that Miss Gladstone made known her opinion and desire, that, as no arrangement had been made for the arrival of the young girl, and as for reasons which might be very clear to his own mind her residence in his house might not be desirable, if it was so she would be glad to know it. In her estimation Mr. Rossiter would now be quite justifiable in considering the former arrangement void. She would hold herself in readiness to look for another home if such should be the wish of his family. The proposition coming from her instead of from himself, had the effect of an appeal to the hospitality of his nature, which grace and virtue in his midnight meditation the good man had crowded out of mind. 
               And now his fears and troubled thoughts concerning the young stranger vanished for a moment; as for the protector of the child-the lady who was burdened with this mortal care-he took cognizance of her situation as his mental disturbance had not before allowed him to do. She was a woman, alone-a stranger, withal, in a strange land. And she appealed to him, moreover, not by any word, in the character of a fellow servant of one Master. Could he make no fresh sacrifice, when she had made so many? When she had given up her home, was it much for him, her brother in the faith, to extend to her a welcome to this mansion of their Father's House? Nay, so did the good man's heart warm with these reflections, that, in the end, Miss Gladstone was welcomed to the parsonage quite as heartily by the minister as she had been already by the heart of his wife; which must have proved to his mind, if he would in that instance accept of it, that there are generally two sides to a question. 
               Well satisfied was the mind of Mrs. Grace Rossiter when, on entering the room with Hope and Maud, she caught the expression of her husband's countenance; it went like a great flash of assuring sunlight through her heart. The last feather had not been equal to the breaking of his back. Something better than his usual abstracted equanimity was there. Something even different, and very different, from the expression of that face when the well-beloved Jerome Stanton was with him, holding high conversation-for these occasions of union between the two divines were usually occasions for discussion of some weighty political or theological question. But such a peaceful, conscious, satisfied composure, she had not seen in him-and she was a wife observant of her husband-since his soul became immersed in the sacred cares of his profession. 
               With a gratefulness, such as a flower may feel in the shadow of a rock, Grace Rossiter took her place by Miss Gladstone, and her voice was stronger in the morning psalm-they all heard it-than it was usually; and there was only one of the little family who did not unite with them in that ascription. This was Maud Saltonstall, who looked over the book with Hope, and saw the words, and caught the tune, but felt no impulse to join in it. 
             
             
                
               XIX. HOPE ROSSITER'S STUDY. 
               STRANGE were the conclusions at which Hope Rossiter and Maud Saltonstall arrived on a mutual survey. 
               Hope seemed to have inherited the character her father had acquired from him. That which he seemed, she actually was. Everything but generous in feeling, whatever she might be in pride or principle; anything but tolerant in judgment, however tolerant she might be in act. 
               She formed her opinion of Maud, and the opinion being her own, hardly admitted a reconsideration. But, feeling the obligation of her position upon her, and, besides, happiest herself in sight of her books, though their study must now, at least for a brief season, be deferred, she invited Maud into her study-so she called the little room in the centre of the house, just opposite her father's study over the porch. 
               It was not the atmosphere for Maud, as she directly proved by projecting her head from the window, and taking a deliberate survey of the trees, whose branches grew within her reach, and by resting her head on the window sill, that she might the better look up into the cloudless heaven. 
               With a long breath, having completed this duty of observation, she drew herself within the room again, though still her eyes wandered without. Nevertheless, Hope, who watched these movements with the interest of curiosity, at least with the first attempt to do so, arrested and retained Maud's attention by asking: 
                
               "What do you like best to study, Maud?" 
               Maud paused to consider. And while she considered she looked for the first time about the room. The round red table, covered with red cloth, was strewn with books; a large, high-backed chair was filled with volumes to the top; the shutters of one of the windows were closed, and some shelves were suspended from the top; these also were filled with volumes; in fact, a very considerable portion of Mr. Rossiter's library had found its way into this room. They made the place present a curious appearance to the eye of Maud. From the books she withdrew her eyes, and bent them on the expectant, and somewhat grimly smiling face of Hope, and answered with a freedom that showed all absence of suspicion of the thoughts which just then were passing through Hope's mind: 
               "We have not a great many books; I have read some of them. My father and mother taught me. I have studied about insects; we have a little case of them I caught, and father prepared them. I loved some of the books that mother studied once, and father, when they were young. But we did not read much, except in winter. There was something else to do in summer. There was so much out of doors." 
               "But is it not by what you learn from books when you are in-doors, that you discover what is out of doors?" asked Hope, but not for information, be it understood. She was an instructor that day. 
               "Oh, do you think so?" answered Maud. 
               "Yes, surely. We learn what to like." 
               "Don't we know till we learn?" asked Maud, perplexed, and not more than half believing. 
               "No; for in me as the Apostle saith, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. The works of the flesh are works of darkness. And the works of the flesh are the works of the spirit. If the eye is not single great is the darkness." 
               "I don't think I ever learned what to like, though," said Maud, looking fixedly at Hope, fascinated by the singular charm of her face-for to Maud's eyes that face had an increasing beauty-won by the tones of her voice, yet aware of a spirit of opposition rising within her, which thus found its expression. 
               "What did you like without learning?" asked Hope, concealing better than Maud had done the incredulity with which she listened to her words. 
               "Better than everything to ride Lady Jane! that was like having wings. And the next best thing of all, the morning before the sunrise. Oh, I dearly love the sky, do not you, Hope?" 
               Not much stirred, in truth, did Hope seem at this outbreak, still she answered, as she could, and her moderation had not the effect it might have had if Maud's rapture were less absolute. 
               "Yes. I love to think of the heavenly home; yes, certainly." But as she answered, she looked with a serious, reproving eye at Maud. For it was a delight of sense, and not a spiritual joy of which the child had spoken. But reproof was none for Maud; she was not looking now at Hope, but out upon that heaven. 
               "I am so glad," she said, speaking quickly as her eyes fell upon the garden below, "so glad I am to have the flowers to take care of. May be you will help me; you cannot think how pleasant it is!" 
               This was reversing matters with a high hand. Here was the ignorance Hope had consented to instruct, actually taking it upon herself to teach! Very coldly she answered: 
               "I cannot spend my time so. I have no leisure to waste!" 
               "Do you have so much to do? But I can help you!" 
               "You could not help me," said Hope; "it is my studies that engage me." 
               "Oh," answered Maud: now, apparently, she had arrived at an appreciation of their relative position; which, apparently, was not displeasing to Hope, who said: 
               "You think you could not help me then, perhaps." 
               "I could not, I am sure," said Maud, looking around her, "Do you study all these books?" Clearly she now perceived that in talking to Hope Rossiter she was talking to a very different person from Miss Gladstone, or Hope's mother, and she became aware of a restriction. 
               "I have been through all of them," replied Hope. "Some of them two and three times." More quietly, not to outward seeming, but in inward reality, she spoke these words, as if now there were no possibility that she should be mistaken by the child, for one like herself. 
               "What are they?" asked Maud Saltonstall, certainly without anticipation of such an answer as she received. 
               "Treatises on ecclesiastical and civil law," answered Hope largely. "On political economy, poetry, the Hebrew Bible, the Greek books of the New Testament of our Lord. All these you see here are histories. My father has one of the best libraries in the country-he is quite rich in books. He has his theological library in his room. But I have read a great deal in theology beside. When Mr. Stanton was here we read together. Sometimes I write; father likes to have me. Besides, I have copied all his sermons; and some of his books I have copied for Mr. Stanton. Books cost so much, you know. It is glorious to live in this little corner, and have such great things to do." 
               Maud could at least appreciate the genuine burst of enthusiasm with which Hope Rossiter concluded this account of herself. But before she could speak, Hope went on, for this was a rare opportunity. 
               "Sometimes I have stayed here from morning until night, and never stirred, except for a mouthful at noon. Those were days," she hastened to explain, "when we had no housework to do. I love to study. And it makes no difference ence to me whether it is a fine day or not, when I am so carried away by thought." 
               "What!" exclaimed Maud, "not know whether all this," and she swept her arm from the window, performing with it a vast semicircle in the air, "were bright or cloudy, cold or warm?" 
               "So absorbed as not to notice," reiterated Hope, with a matured gravity which seemed pleased with the tribute she contrived to draw from Maud's surprise. 
               "Why," asked Maud again; and Hope had been justified in supposing that her listener's surprise was not in the least an envious emotion; "I never get up in the morning but it is the first thing I do to go to the window and see how the sky is. I must know if everything is the same." 
               "Why, you do not expect the world to turn upside down because you are asleep?" said Hope, the gravity of her speaking effectually subjecting whatever lightness or humor there might seem to be in her words. 
               "How can I tell what will be? I want to make sure that it is all the same. Then I am happy." 
               "I trust that all is well. The promise of my God is sufficient," said Hope, and it may be there was not something of the Pharisee's self-gratulation in her words. Good words enough they were but for their connection-but for their utterance. Even as the Pharisee's "God, I thank thee," had been a very proper prayer, had it not issued from the heart of a Pharisee. 
               "But we are not the same every day," remarked Maud, hardly, however, in an expostulatory way. "We change. I must see if I can see. I know that the birds will be there, and everything the same, but it might be so, and yet different to me. And that is what comes to me sometimes so terrible." 
               "What?" asked Hope, in a tone that did not express very much of sympathy, but Maud did not perceive it, and she answered: 
               "That we shall die." 
               "Did ever any of your friends die?" asked Hope, inferring from the manner in which Maud expressed herself, that her eyes had seen, and her ears discovered the terror of death through personal bereavement; she discovered here a point from which she might successfully proceed in her instructions. 
               "I never knew of any one that died," said Maud. 
               Yet Hope could not forego the instruction-even the reproof. 
               "It is in the grave that the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest," said she to Maud, thinking to make an impression on one who never had been troubled by the wicked, nor ever longed, through weariness, for rest. 
               "Not to see the world when it is so lovely, it is a dreadful thing," said Maud, on whom the force of Hope's argument was lost altogether. "I hope," and her glowing face testified for her, as well as the deep intonation of her voice; "I hope I shall live always-I mean," and she looked at Hope smiling at her own words, "I mean till I am old." 
               "Old people are deaf and blind sometimes; would you like to live till you lost your sight and hearing, and, maybe, the use of your limbs, too?" 
               "If I sat in the sun," said Maud, 
                     comtemplating
                     contemplating
                   seriously this extreme picture thus presented; "If I sat in the sun I could feel it. I should know how everything was. How it all looked at noon, and morning, and night. I could tell by the sounds; and if I were deaf I should know it all the same." 
               "I have observed," said Hope, "that people who are very old do not take much pleasure in such things. Even if they are not blind, they are dull every way. It is a trouble for them to walk about; they do not enjoy, or take much interest." 
                
               "Did they ever, then, I wonder?" asked Maud, thoughtfully, really interrogating. "I think I should feel the same always. I would like to live forever on the earth. I would like to be young always. And I think I ought to pray for it, and so I do. To be young always! I do not know why people die." 
               "Death came by sin," Hope told her. 
               "But Christ died," expostulated Maud. 
               "Yes, and he was the end of the law, spiritually; but he did not remove the law from our members. We must die. He took away the sting of death, however, and we may go to Him." 
               Though these words were spoken so dogmatically, there was a certain mildness in the voice not perceptible before. But it was not this fact that emboldened Maud to further speech; she was not yet conscious of restraint, and she said, speaking evidently with more interest than she had yet shown: 
               "But he said-I have read it a great many times-'I am with you always;' and I always thought that he meant that for every one, because, when he prayed, he prayed for those who should believe through the Apostles' words. Why need one die to go to Him, then? I am sure I need not. I think that some time he will come, and when he does there will be no more death. He will not let anything so dreadful be." 
               "I do not feel what you mean," said Hope, coldly, regarding Maud's manner of expression in her last words as something altogether out of place in speaking of these things, and remorselessly hastening to bring a cloud of darkness before the eyes that were so enraptured with the wondrous glory of the earth. 
               "You know very little, indeed, of the world, if you think it is a place so pleasant. To depart is far better. To many people the hour when they die is the happiest hour of all. There is so much sorrow, and trouble, and disappointment, and pain." 
               "So much! is there?" said Maud, in undisguised dismay. 
               "It is said so. I read it in all the histories." 
               But Maud Saltonstall would have a better evidence than historical. 
               "Has it been so to you?" she asked. 
               "Perhaps not to me." The anxiety passed from Maud's face-the effect of Hope's remaining words were lost-"I have known a great many to whom it has been so." But Maud looked from the window, and watched the waving branches of the trees, and wished again that she might live forever. 
               Perhaps Hope saw the wish in the act, for presently, when Maud did not reply, she said: 
               "If the dumb beasts could speak they would probably not reprove you. They would say the same thing, perhaps, that you do. But for beings who are to live forever to be satisfied with this state of things!-with this poor dying world! It will not be possible for you long." Some sort of gloomy satisfaction the speaker seemed to draw from this prediction. 
               "I don't know what you mean by this state of things," said Maud, slowly; "but surely I see more in this beautiful world than the animals do. And why should I not rejoice in it more than they? The angels live here, too, and they see more than I, for I cannot see them. And God dwells here, and he sees all, and must rejoice, Hope." 
               To such a speech those lips had never before given an utterance, and to the speaker they had almost as strange a sound as they had for the hearer. Even to such thoughts as these, in their present relation, she had never come till now; and, while she spoke them, Maud's lip quivered, her face was paler, her eyes more lustrous than their wont. There was a forced growth of life of which she was conscious, that took place even there in that hour, though the sun was not shining in the chamber. 
               Hope merely said-and cold her voice was, cold and hard, in contrast with the warm, living, trembling voice of Maud: 
               "We will not talk about that now. You say strange things. I never heard any one say the like before." 
               This was a new reproof, if Maud had so received it, but she did not. And this also Hope Rossiter perceived. And she took a little fresh satisfaction while she sighed and thought of what a work she had to do. 
             
             
                
               XX. THE PASTOR, PASTURE, AND LAMB. 
               "COME," said Hope Rossiter, suddenly rising, and, as it seemed, anxious to bring herself into a better atmosphere, or else suspicious that there was danger in delay for Maud. "Come, let us go and visit father in his study. I think he will expect us, and you have hardly spoken to him yet." 
               Mr. Rossiter was already in his room, buried amid his books and papers, but he looked up and arose when his daughter, with a prefatory knock, entered the room, followed by Maud. It was both a larger and a duller room than the closet they had left. And there was nothing to detract here from the heaviness of the shelves of books, and the abounding gloom imparted by the tenant of the chamber. 
               They had hardly entered this study when Hope was called below by Mrs. Rossiter. Maud's impulse, manifestly, was to follow her, but Mr. Rossiter had risen from his chair, and when he invited her to remain, there was no other thing for her to do but to sit down, as he requested, and Hope went off well pleased. 
               "The school will be opened next week," said Mr. Rossiter, looking at Maud, as he conveyed to her this the most agreeable, and indeed the only bit of information he could think of. "Next week, on Monday. Time will not be so heavy on your hands then." He was not looking at Maud while he spoke, but on the little book in which he had been writing. It lay open on the desk before him. And as he did not look at her Maud seemed not to feel the necessity of an immediate reply. So the minister began to speak again, and now, as her host and entertainer, turned towards her, closing the book as he did so, making thus a real demand upon her attention. 
               "You will be glad to begin the school, I trust. All the time that is lost at your age is doubly lost. Never will you find it again. But if you acquire habits of industrious study now, they will always continue. You have never been at school yet, Miss Gladstone, your guardian, tells me." 
               He seemed to be throwing off some responsibility in these last words, possibly was but re-assuring himself that this care was not upon him, that the girl had another guardian. 
               The words, whatever their intent or source, had the effect to restore Maud perfectly to herself; she looked up at Mr. Rossiter in calm possession of her wits, and told him that her guardian was right. 
               Hope had left school, he then said. She was now capable of continuing her studies by herself. Maud was encouraged to believe that Hope would be always ready and willing to assist her. And Mr. Rossiter begged that Maud would come to him whenever she felt in need of help. It was all that he could do to say these words. 
               For which Maud thanked him, not knowing what she did. 
               Then he continued, in a dry, calm, and as it almost seemed, indifferent voice, yet this was not the fact; but it was so unusual a thing for him to be interrupted in his mornings by any more disturbing cause than the momentary need of Hope, or a visit from Mr. Stanton, neither of whom could ever intrude upon him, even upon his most studious hour. 
               "You will prosecute your studies, I trust, with a sense of the great advantages you have. You could not have a better teacher than you will have, and I request you to believe that all the influences brought to bear upon you, while you remain here, will be for your good. And remember-young people are not apt to remember-the time is short. Whatsoever you do, do with your might; for in the grave, whither you hasten-" 
               Mr. Rossiter paused as he said this in his slow, formal way. His voice was milder than in the pulpit, though the same inflexible tone was in it. If he had only such control over other minds as his voice suggested was natural for him to exercise, he would not be a lenient ruler. But he was in the main too scholarly a man, too much a student, too calm and deliberate, ever to be effective as an orator or as an exhorter, though as a presenter of doctrinal truth he was considered unrivalled. 
               He paused in his speaking now for a moment, struck by the expression of his listener's face, as he spoke these last words. It was but for a moment, however, that he paused; then he continued-"in the grave, whither we hasten, is neither device nor knowledge." 
               Though Maud now replied not, there was something in her face that led Mr. Rossiter to ask her- 
               "Do you not feel it so?" 
               To answer in the affirmative merely because his question implied a supposition that she would, was not what we would expect of Maud; her answer is anticipated. 
               "I do not know, sir." For she truly did not know. What was there for her to do with all her might? Her hands had not yet found it. Hope's acquirements, and the opening before her that promised ample opportunity for the same pursuits, did not lead her, as an inspiration, onward, irresistibly, to the occupation of the new ground. She had come with Miss Gladstone to this home, and was to be educated; but her surroundings, and the opportunity before her, did not come upon her as a call, answered none of her anticipations; and so she said, rather indifferently it must have sounded to a student's ear-"I do not know, sir." 
               "But," he began, in a rapid, astonished way, which was immediately changed for a method of speech more appropriate, "life is short, and death is certain-the only event of which we are perfectly assured." He was pained by her ignorance, and that manifest indifference on such a them as this-it was no longer a languid interest that he expressed. But, oh! for Jerome Stanton, to drive the truth into her heart by one tremendous utterance of the Gospel, with which he went charged as a great cloud with lightnings! 
               "If my life is to be short I would prefer never to study, but I hope it will be long, sir; and I will do my best at the school. Miss Gladstone says that." 
               Maud urged herself to say this, for she fancied when she looked at Mr. Rossiter that he was offended; but she was mistaken-he was only perplexed. He had a duty to perform, but for which far other words than escaped him would have sounded in Maud's ear that day. The Past and the Present warred within him, and he could not endure to think that any one should come within the sphere of his advantages-which were, certainly, of no common order-and not appreciate them. This parsonage was not a mere lodging-house; Hope Rossiter was not a mere child, nor one like unto herself. If she could only be brought to a clear observation of these facts! 
               "My daughter Hope," he said-pronouncing the words even more slowly than his ordinary utterance, as if he loved to linger over the words-"My daughter Hope would not agree with you. She has lived about the same number of years with yourself. Study is her delight, her great privilege. Her mind has sought acquaintance with the best minds of antiquity, and of our own time. I would be glad to see you in the possession of the same treasures. And with adequate industry, I feel authorized to say to you, these riches may be yours. Do not again speak so lightly of these things. I hope, indeed, that your life may be a long one, as you do. Long or short, I trust it may be a useful one. And at any time that you are called hence by the will of God, I pray you may be prepared. I would like to understand how you feel about this. We are always most anxious to know of those in whom we are most interested, how they stand in regard to the next life." 
               It was the resistlessness of his power that made itself felt, which, mild though his words were, compelled Maud to speak, though she did so with a painful effort. 
               "I have read that they who are the best prepared to live are the best prepared to die. Is it not so?" 
               "That is perfectly true," said Mr. Rossiter. And it was true beside that her words thus spoken were listened to with surprise; they implied at least some thought on the speaker's part. "But tell me," he continued, "how do you consider that persons live who are the best prepared to die?" 
               With hesitation Maud replied. With hesitation and yet strange delight, she courageously adventured in the mysterious labor of unfolding her own thoughts. 
               "They are thankful for everything, and make the best of it," said she. "If they die then they can be no worse off." These last words were spoken rapidly, as if to escape the pain there was in them for her; she hurried over them without reflection. 
               Mr. Rossiter evidently did not approve the seeming irreverence. 
               "Learn to look on death with equal equanimity," he said, impressively. "It is a dying world. And death for the good is a most happy change, however happy their lot in this life may be. Why should you all your life be held in bondage by the fear of death?" 
               "I do not fear it," answered Maud quickly, as though surprised at the charge. 
               "What then?" 
               "We were not made for that." 
                
               "Yes, ultimately for death, though absolutely for life," he said abstractedly. 
               "Enoch was translated," said Maud, passing by what she could not understand of ultimate and absolute. 
               "But our Lord Jesus Christ died," exclaimed Mr. Rossiter, starting up, as if from a sleep, and looking at the girl, who, it seemed, was arguing with him! though really she seemed not to know it. 
               "For the sins of the world," she said, for she was not looking at Mr. Rossiter, and did not see this change in him. "Then that is over. And it does not seem like a dying world." 
               "What then?" 
               "But a living world." 
               "You are very young," said Mr. Rossiter, half turning from her, and taking up the book in which he had been writing, at which, however, he did not look. "You will one day be the first to own that at this time you knew nothing. You will then be so wise as to long for a better country. You will confess that you are but a stranger and a pilgrim on the earth. You will say even with another, in language which is expressive of the experience of generations that have passed away, even as the Penitent Pilgrim did say: Go forth, then, my soul; what fearest thou? Go forth, why tremblest thou? Thou hast had enough of Idumea, for what foundest thou there but anguish? Turn thy face to the wall, and think of the Land of Promise.' O, if thou canst but give the sign in that day that it is well with thee! happy then will it be for thee." 
               Now, not a word that the minister had spoken was a false word-not a word was falsely uttered; it was a true saying, and worthy of all acceptation the instant it could be received. But was there no wrong in muffling the world in a shroud, when the young eyes that looked upon it rejoiced in it, for its true, and not for its false sake-for its beauty, not its evil? Experience may have given him authority to behold the earth a charnel-house, but she saw no sword over the gate. Eden was restored to her, for the bitterness that is worse than death had taught her nothing. She felt the breeze, and heard the wind, and saw the light that fills the day. She saw the splendid heavens, the trees full of birds, the flowers that were bursting with fragrance. She had been blessed, not cursed, with life, and she could not argue with Mr. Rossiter; but still she held her own belief, and it was not her instinct to echo his groan. 
               But Mr. Rossiter saw Maud Saltonstall without a halo round her head. 
             
             
                
               XXI. THE BIRD SONG. 
               WHEN he had finished speaking, and Maud made no reply, Mr. Rossiter turned toward his MS. book again, and glanced over its latest passages. He was still thinking of her, and yet had nothing to say. Hope had never been a child as this girl was; he hardly could believe, greatly though he might desire it, that she would ever know a womanhood like that to which Hope already had arrived. As an intelligence, at least, Hope had been thoroughly within his comprehension, because so like himself; he found no difficulty now, at any time, in advancing her mind to a communion with his own, on any topic. For some time, if not for years, he had regarded her in the light of an intellectual companion-a fellow student. Here, wherein he prided himself, the most gentle spirits will be apt to think he had committed an unhappy, if not a fatal mistake. If Hope had been left more to the guardian and fostering care of her mother in earlier years; if the season of her growth had not been hastened-as it never should have been, for growth was the tendency of her nature-he would have contributed so much to the formation of a more true and generous character than he now had in the person of his daughter. 
               Mr. Rossiter, as I said, while he turned the leaves of his book, perplexed himself with the endeavor to understand this character, which it was not in the least likely he would be able to do. It was nature run wild; beautiful the form might be, it was still in need of training, pruning, and unceasing care. Even he felt the influence of her joyous nature, curbed as it was now, and by this he understood the danger for itself and others. 
               She made no move to go when he had ceased speaking to her, but sat still, meditating, he hoped, on his words. And Mr. Rossiter observed her while she sat thus, and he began to wonder why Hope did not return. 
               Suddenly he was startled to see the change that in a moment same over Maud. So quickly she lifted her head, while her eyes dilated as with some joyous impulse-so rapidly she arose and crossed the room, to the solitary window of that sombre apartment. 
               Mr. Rossiter half rose from his seat at this unwonted display in the chamber, where emotions were restrained with conscientious energy-where impulses were restricted with ever jealous and suspicious watchfulness. But he quickly sat down again when she fell upon her knees before the window, in a way that might have quieted his doubts as to whether she knew what it was to assume that position-the grace, freedom, naturalness of the movement impressed him. It reached his heart before his eye was conscious. It touched a memory before it stirred a thought. And when she leaned her arms upon the window-sill and listened, Mr. Rossiter also heard the warbling of a bird, whose nest was in a tree near by. And he remembered now that he had heard these notes before, but the delight of this girl at the hearing seemed verily to give the music to him with a new tone, the like of which he had not heard for years, or ever. Could this be a foreign bird? He actually asked himself that question. And in earnest he listened, until, yielding to his impulse, he! Mr. Rossiter! left the table, desk, books, and went up to the window, and stood and listened there, where, through all the days of summer-nay, I might say through all the days of many summers-he had not once stood, as now, to look, as now to listen. 
               That he did come, that he did stand there beside her, listening, emboldened Maud to a further explanation of herself. 
               "That is what makes me love to live; that and everything like it," she said, when the strain ended. There was no surprise in her voice that he, too, should be harkening, but a sort of innocent triumph, as if she had here a full, entire vindication of what she might have failed to justify before. But now he had listened with her, he surely must understand. She believed in his sympathy! 
               "It is a sweet strain the bird sings," he said, in a quiet tone, as if he had no desire to contend with her-as, indeed, he had not; why should he have? "And all the works of God are perfect; but to love them rightly makes us but love Him the more-makes us desire so much the more to be with Him." 
               Maud could not appreciate this. The Beginning and the End might be, absolutely, the same with them. But how did they diverge in their passage from that beginning to that end! Had Maud better understood him she might, and to some purpose, have asked him, "If he were ever without God in the world;" and how many times, in the course of his half century, his heart had drawn in the golden harvest of any single season. He might not have comprehended the questioning in all its bearings-perhaps not in its most important; but it would surely have given him some new matter for reflection, and a theme for many more sermons than he would ever write. 
               While they listened, Hope came back. She stood in the open doorway, her hand on the door-latch, at a loss to understand the scene before her; but when her father motioned her to come to him, and she came up, he explained to her that he-they, were listening to a bird! 
                
               "He has a nest below there," said Mr. Rossiter. "I dare say you have heard him often, Hope." 
               But Hope dared not say it, for she could not summon recollection of the time when she had left her occupation, as her father had done-for, at least, he had left his conversation for the listening; it was never he who had commended the bird-song to Maud Saltonstall, and she wondered, without attempting to conceal her wonder, at the fact. 
               But she came up to say that Mr. Stanton was below. 
             
             
                
               XXII. JEROME STANTON. 
               WHO was Mr. Stanton? Twice or thrice already his name has elapsed, but without so much as calling up before the mind the shadow of a vision. If he were to disappear just now his loss would not be felt, except in his immediate neighborhood. But there it were indeed a loss. 
               For, to Mr. Rossiter, he is as a brother and a son. A brother by profession, a son in all affectionate relation. He was a student in the family of Mr. Rossiter, and only within the past year received his license to preach. His pastoral charge is not within our immediate vicinity-his church is in the heart of a small clearing, and his congregation is scattered far and near; but they all adore Mr. Stanton, with precisely the sentiment that warms the hearts that bow before the shrines of saints; and they would count it not among their sacrifices if they make it their Sunday business to walk ten miles through storm to listen to his teaching. 
               At Mr. Rossiter's house he was always sure of welcome. There he was held in the highest consideration. Hope was but a child when he first came to live at the parsonage, and she had grown up under his eyes in the conviction, fostered by her parents, that Jerome Stanton was a prodigy of learning and of piety. This opinion was an exaggeration, it may be, of her father's estimate, but not a great exaggeration. It was one, at least, that could never be eradicated. The impression pression she had received during the childish years when her mind was having its rapid development would never be effaced. It could but reveal itself; it could but produce an effect on Mr. Stanton, too. 
               He was a handsome, if not an altogether prepossessing person, of middle height, well formed, compactly built, and a chest whose capacities allowed no concern in reference to the exercise of his strength in pulpit oratory. He had the lungs of a stentor, and his voice was under very good control; he had the manner of a strong, confident, unflinching reasoner. There was no play with words, no talking against time, no toying with argument, in his case. He had always enough to say when called upon, for he was an earnest man; his heart was full of the business that engaged him. You would never have mistaken him for anything short of a diligent worker, whatever your conclusions might have been in regard to him otherwise. Seldom did he indulge himself in revery, but often in lofty, if never in quite serene contemplations. Indulgence in those contemplations, in which imagination had free sweep and play, was his prevailing habit of intellectual life. The vividness of his own conceptions of eternal loss and eternal gain gave a terrific potence to his words, and he was never known to place his inspiration under the custody of Art. In some respects he was far beyond his associates in ministerial labors, in immediateness of effect, and in extent, if not in depth, of influence. The results of his preaching were his testimony. 
               He made light of no mental qualification. He strove to bring all his own powers to the service of his Maker. Were not these all the gifts of God? But he allowed his imagination no indulgence in wild vagaries or fanciful dreaming. He brought it subdued, but strong, into the service of what seemed to him the truth. A little more serenity of mind, a little better balanced mental power, would have given him high rank among the men of his profession of any period. As it was, it might be that his pertinacity in holding his point might be his ruin, if it should chance that any idea should ever obtain dominion over him which had not its foundation in absolute truth. 
               He had something of both the abstractive and the fiery penetration of the seer. His person and manners were such as must make an impression on ordinary minds, carrying them captive whither he would; and such a result might also be produced on minds far above the ordinary grade. 
               It was his impulse to exercise his own control over all persons with whom he came in contact. He was a man to be felt-under certain circumstances, to be feared; for he would never shrink from act when he believed a moral right or wrong to be involved in any circumstances. 
               But he was in danger of confounding the teaching of the Spirit with the utterance of bolder voices; and as it was his habit to follow out the most direct conceptions of his mind in practical, unswerving obedience, the danger was lest he should become distinguished for a spirit that would choose to lift the sword to revenge the insult, rather than pause for a milder example. 
               He had Peter's eloquence, not John's. The terrors of the law were his weapon, and the mystery of ages a less attractive theme. 
               Occasionally, Jerome Stanton had preached in Mr. Rossiter's church. To Hope his preaching was the very loftiest eloquence. He stood complete-nay, transfigured before her, on that momentous day, when first he lifted his voice in the hearing of the congregations. She had listened to the fearful denunciations of all ungodliness which ungodly men have committed, and had been caught up in the response to the terrible description of their doom by the words through which he led the mind of the people up the mountain heights where the elect of God shall at last be gathered together. 
               It was sombre scenery amid which his thoughts lingered. The horrors of gloom which he could depict were indeed horrible. He could sway a congregation to the wail of the despairing damned; and, in the exhaustion of their emotion, it was his triumph of eloquence, even in the midst of the terrors he had evoked, that he could sound the note of the song of triumph in which the redeemed of heaven join. 
               When she heard him on the first day of his preaching, Hope swooned in her excitement. It was the very tribute he would have of her on this occasion of his introduction as a public preacher. It proved him to himself. On the succeeding occasions when he spoke in her hearing, he had watched the effect upon her, and had perceived, to his great satisfaction, how well she bore it-how admirably sustained she was by the strength of her faith-how strong her young wing was to clear the darkness, and mount beyond the clouds; but he did not also observe that, in common with himself, the joy she felt was in the struggle which excited and aroused her energies, rather than in the calm that gratefully allows their perfect submission. 
               His words rang in her ears; they were like the blast of a trumpet to a soul like hers-awakening, quickening, powerful. She could endure this excitement, because her satisfaction was complete, her confidence entire in him. Of this he was aware, and the intelligence conveyed without the aid of spoken words, was of the character and origin he would most prize. And he set no small value on that subsequent external calmness she evinced, which was the more remarkable because of the way in which it preserved itself from the infection of example or sympathy, when the congregation was moved by his words. 
               That calmness bespoke a strength on which he could rely. He learned from her to control himself, even while swaying others: by bringing into the midst of his audiences one whom, without any great stretch of fancy, he could believe to be there actually in spirit-this young girl, with the solemnly-approving approving eyes, the slight but strong figure which once he had seen prostrate and helpless, under the sway of his words. Never would he forget, strange if he could mistake, the effect produced upon him when he saw her cheek paling to that deathly color, her dark eyes beaming with unearthly fire upon him, fixed upon him, as if fascinated, while he went on turning perpetually in his discourse to her, as the centre of his audience; the reaction of her excitement in him, the quick nervous movement of her hand, when she lifted it to loose the strings of her bonnet; the fury with which, as if to avert the catastrophe he saw impending, he went on, piling words on words, until the congregation, from swaying with dread, became like a frozen multitude, silent as death, his eyes ever and anon, and oftener and oftener, directing to the pew just before him, where Mrs. Rossiter and Hope sat, until-but too late-feeling and perceiving that she was borne in her excitement beyond his reach, he saw her droop and fall. He never could forget that day. 
               Since that time-and perfectly he knew it-no matter to what height he soared, there was one among his listeners whom nothing could surprise; for all that he could do she was prepared. But this quietness and calmness was not, of course, altogether dominant. She could not always prevent the agitation that swayed her soul-its transports of delight and horror-and he knew that it was so; but she could prevent all manifestation of what was passing in her mind, and this she did effectually. 
               And this fact constituted not the least of her charms in the eyes of Jerome Stanton. For she had charms on which his mind dwelt often, meditative. 
             
             
                
               XXIII. ASSOCIATION. 
               THIS then was the Rev. Jerome Stanton, whose arrival Hope Rossiter had announced to her father. 
               He was the godly young man whom Mrs. Rossiter welcomed at the door of the house, when he had alighted from his horse, and fastened the steed at the post in front of the parsonage-the solemn, dignified, enthusiastic preacher, for whose comfort she had labored during the three years of his student life in the parsonage, and whom, in his going from them, she still regarded with motherly interest and affection. 
               With something quite maternal in the quality of her pride, she led him into the parsonage parlor-a room that was but rarely opened, and still more rarely used-and introduced him there to the new teacher, Miss Gladstone. 
               These two were "well met." I say so because in each there were qualities which the majority of those with whom they came in contact would overlook, or undervalue, or mistake; qualities which would appear to each arrayed in their independent value. 
               Mr. Stanton did not think of contrasting Miss Gladstone with Hope Rossiter, nor with any other woman; not that she surpassed all he had known in any particular; not that she carried his reason and judgment away captive by a glance, but because she herself suggested no comparison, either physically or otherwise. And he felt her arrival as the introduction of a new element into his life. 
                
               It is no exaggeration of the fact to say that each formed of the other, in that first interview, a quite accurate measurement. And that Grace Rossiter, who observed the ease with which they fell into an interested and interesting conversation, even in the few moments which preceded Mr. Rossiter's appearing, appreciated the fact, for the smiled upon them both, and in her heart congratulated them upon there mutual gain. And congratulated herself, too, though she thought it not, for her own delight or satisfaction was a remote end, seldom perceived, and still more rarely aimed at, among her objects in life. 
               Mr. Stanton had breathed in the new world's atmosphere with his first breath; he was a son of the new world. His boyhood and youth were passed amid the scenes where his manhood was now laboring. It was something to Miss Gladstone to have thus under her observation a character formed under such influences as had controlled him; all that nature had done for him but served to enhance the interest she was prepared to take in every kind of fruit that grew upon the tree of religious liberty planted in this foreign land. 
               She, bearing in herself the witness that she brought with her every requisite for the important office she was to fill, was an object of as great interest to the young divine. He had himself once occupied the trust which was now to be given to her; there was every reason why they should be friends. He was ready to assist her by detailing the results of his experience as a teacher; to counsel her, to direct her, to do any service here or elsewhere that his hand should find to do in her behalf; but not to see in her the life that, to use Kensett's words, had once "ruled London;" to that life's essential spirit he was so far a stranger, that it was a question yet whether he could be made so aware of it as London claimed to be. 
               When Mr. Rossiter came into the room with the two girls, Maud and Hope, the contrast presented by the two men and their mutual greeting, was not lost upon Margaret Gladstone. In movement and address, Jerome Stanton's deliberation was most notable. He was never hurried; his large chest, broad heavy shoulders, thick masses of long black hair, heavy eyebrows, strong, deep voice, told his personal power-that he could both deliberate and do, and with more than common effect. Mr. Rossiter was the reverse of all this. His mental powers, also, seemed to lie in a direction opposite to those of Mr. Stanton. The one was more efficient surrounded by his books. Among men he appeared less to advantage. The place of the other was manifestly among the activities of life. The contrast between them was never more marked than on this day, when Mr. Rossiter's temptation and struggle had begun, for he was both tempted and struggling to-day. 
               The reverend gentlemen evidently reverenced each other. Mr. Rossiter's eyes lightened as they fell upon his stalwart guest and former pupil; he seemed, the lean and fragile student, to sun himself in that fine presence; while the younger man gave every token of perfect consciousness that he stood before his superior. This was very beautiful to see. Mrs. Rossiter saw it and rejoiced, as she always rejoiced when Jerome Stanton came. Miss Gladstone saw it, and both men rose the higher in her estimation. Mr. Rossiter made a presence so amiable in this friendship, and the younger man in this deference. 
               Upon himself-knowing his master well, and perceiving that he was troubled in an unwonted degree-Mr. Stanton took the burden of the conversation, and never allowed it to flag. He was conscious of himself to an extent, but the consciousness never revealed itself in embarrassment. His speech was a vehicle for heavy roads, and it rolled on its way, disdaining to note an impediment. But it was never like those empty coaches made for swelling out processions on the occasions of life. A rare audience he had this morning ing, with Hope Rossiter by his side, and Miss Gladstone to the opposite, with the stranger girl behind her chair, looking at him as she might have looked at an ogre; and good mother Rossiter near, and the Puritan Father walking up and down the room, with his head bent on his breast, and his arms clasped behind him, speaking now and then, but better satisfied to take his part as listener and as an observer; for, as I said before, Hope, his daughter, sat behind Jerome Stanton; and whenever, in his walk through the room, Mr. Rossiter came where he could observe the two and take them into his thought as one, his eyes were upon them. I do not know that he contrasted or compared them, but he liked to see them together-he liked to hear them talk together. He liked to hear, above all voices of mankind, that deep-toned voice of Stanton, that could thunder the terrors of the truth from his pulpit to the consternation and conversion of a multitude. He loved, above all forms of men, that stalwart figure which pursued its studies and its duties among the people, and found his library in his convictions and his faith. For Stanton was not a bookish man since he left the parsonage of Mr. Rossiter; in the church, by the wayside, in the field, from house to house he had gone, a preacher of the Word, studying the human heart-a physician of souls. And from the acceptance with which this labor was received, he was led, or compelled, to forsake almost entirely other kinds of study. 
               Feeling this necessity as a loss, or imagining that he so felt it, it had been his custom, in the past months, to seek much the society of Hope Rossiter. 
               In his visits to the parsonage, Mr. Stanton had seemed more and more to appreciate the value of her father's time, and had hesitated to call upon it, manifesting what he sought by engaging Hope in conversations concerning the books she might happen to be reading. They had studied together formerly in another way. The new method was a modification tion of the old, which the parents approved of when Mr. Stanton spoke of it to them, but whether they attributed it to the same cause with him, is another matter; and as to Hope, understanding what was expected of her, she of late had pursued her studies with a zeal even unknown before. With good cause she began to place a higher value than ever on her acquirements, and it was surprising to observe the expansion her mind had, and the increase of her ambition, when she came to a perfect understanding of herself as Mr. Stanton's reviewer and digester of books and truths. 
               The studies she pursued were of a nature and extent which, if spoken of minutely, would excite unbelief in many people of the present time, who educate young women. Bare statement of anything so thorough, so real, as the culture she had, might justly occasion a suspicion of veracity on the historian's part. It was, indeed, too real, too thorough for her years; for nature, whose idea of fitness is continually molested by our sins of ignorance, instituted in the beginning a correspondence between mind and body which cannot be violated with impunity. The mind and body were ordained to grow together; but if that were in one instance out of ninety-nine allowed, communities might never have known the blessings of lunatic and idiot asylums; and all the privileges and the immunities of the "common steadfast dunce"-which stand upon the broad foundations of the common law and statute books-would be swept away into the rubbish which pertains to the Dark Ages. A loss one shudders to think of. 
               These studies of Hope, I say, were too severe a tax upon her youth. But the consideration predominating in her father's mind referred to the advantages she derived, intellectually and spiritually, from these opportunities. And she took in her tasks so much delight and pride-she went to them with so much alacrity, finding in them her chief delight, that it did not occur to any concerned that more than they sought might be discovered in the end of these labors. Had she been, indeed, a pure spirit, not in the least concerned in the welfare of her combination of mortal organs, it would have been-as they supposed it actually was with her-the best training she could have. 
               But even now, her appearance and speech were in singular and painful contrast with her person. One could best discern what she had lost by looking from her to Maud Saltonstall; but there was no one in that little group that thought of contrasting the two thus. Maud was but a child, while in conversation Hope was older than her mother, and more grave than Margaret Gladstone. 
               Of late it had come to pass that Mr. Stanton had been thinking of Hope Rossiter, whose fame as a learned woman had already spread almost as far as her father's name was known; had been thinking of her not merely as a scholar, but a woman; and, as such, one who would be sought not only for acquaintance, but for love. The possibility of losing her was what had incited him to think if she might not be won away from such calamitous chances. He had not yet in any way made known this thought-fear, desire, whatever it might be called-but he was surveying Hope with a new interest; and when it is added that he was doing so without aid of the critic's illuminating light, it may be conjectured at what conclusion he would most likely arrive. 
               Though Hope had never given evidence of the possession of any of her mother's loveliest qualities of womanhood, yet, when he compared Hope's intellectual power with that of her father, Jerome Stanton was sure to associate her with her mother also, as he thought upon her affectional qualities. Her heart's emotions and its feelings were not upon the surface-they had a deeper source. How could it be otherwise? Do you look for the bright sparkle and gay music of the shallow little brook in the great and deep river tide? She was like her mother in all womanly perfections; but had the proof of this been required of him, I know not where he would have found it, except in his desire that it should be so. It existed for him, and so he said all this beauty of the heart was hers. It was no fault of Hope's that he should so perceive her-the poorest creature of creation is the proper object of some soul's earthly devotion. And Hope was by no means poor. Stanton had but to adorn her with a few flowers of his imagination, and she was the queen of the universe to him. Did Fourier not know that his dream was already become, six thousand years ago, a divinely human fact among all human companies? Since the world stood, has not every generation proved it? Did not Adam ask for Eve? and is isolation anything but the sin of incapacity? The ideal and the real was the marriage over which the morning stars did sing for joy, and ever since the wedding bells have pealed. They are swifter in their sound, and they are louder-for their echo is eternal-than the dismal funeral toll. 
               O, you may buy a great farm, but it is not so large as the world. You may band yourselves together, but there is a wider COMMUNITY. You may make of yourselves MEN, but around you there are angels-around you there are inspirations. Why look you through a glass darkly? or were you born blind? Good people may live together in peace on the principle of toleration, but better people know a "more excellent way." Here was Jerome Stanton enduing Hope Rossiter with all that might be wanting in her, and finding in that image the satisfaction of his human heart; and his idea of an association was complete. It was none the worse, but all the better, because received into the spirit, and there best, there only, appreciated. Doubtless, it would all have some outward result, and possibly might yet affect the world in some unknown way, for good. But this was not within his contemplations. It was enough for him in that stage of his life if the happiness of two was therein made as that of one. Was he wise in this? Answer ye who are careful to make clean the outside of the platter. Or, is the world a fool? For he did but as the world does-as the world in its best impulse, I mean-its best inspiration: nay, even as the Powers of Heaven do; and in this lies the hope of the Christian heart. Doth not God give to him that for which he aspires? Doth not God perceive in him the beauty and the truth he struggles to deliver or achieve? And failing of the earthly, as Moses, do we not come thus sooner to the heavenly fruition? 
             
             
                
               XXIV. THE SCHOOL-HOUSE. 
               BUT from the ruins of the North American Phalanx turn we, not mournfully-what discomforture is there in life to mourn, if life BE LIFE? 
               We are not upon that battle-ground; we are not waiting for the gray dawn to clear away, that we may see all the disaster, its cause and its effect; we are in the parlor of the parsonage, and the little party gathered there are speaking of the school to be, and the new school-house; and some one-perhaps Miss Gladstone herself-has made a proposition that she should visit it that morning, and Mr. Rossiter and Mr. Stanton look pleased enough at the proposal to have been the origination of it. 
               It would please Margaret Gladstone to go and survey the ground of her future labors-there is that in her alacrity that cannot be mistaken. Mrs. Rossiter has her household cares, and Hope some assistance to render her mother, and something, besides, to finish, as she remembers, of the analysis she is preparing for Mr. Stanton. There remains, therefore, only Maud to accompany Miss Gladstone and the ministers. 
               It is the new square building near Mr. Rossiter's church to which they go. That is the school-house erected by the people for their children. Two hundred may be accommodated there, but the pupils assembled in the town, all told, have never yet exceeded half that number. 
                
               There were a few forest trees growing together near the school-house, but not so near as to shade it. Unscreened in the sun it stood in all its newness; no grass about it; four walls and a pointed roof for the outward form; benches within, ranged in regular lines and straight rows, and the teacher's stand and desk for the inward appareling. Such was the place. 
               With the manner of one who might as readily have filled a station far more commanding-so thought Mr. Stanton, so thought Mr. Rossiter, both were struck by it-Miss Gladstone advanced to the platform, and took her seat upon it at the table. 
               Up to this moment she had hardly spoken since she left the parsonage. There was probably no need; her guides had much to say, and her silence had not been remarked; but in her own heart she had felt an occasion and a necessity of silence. 
               To Mr. Stanton's half-apologetic remarks on the unfinished condition of the place, and his assurance that the harsh features of the scene were inevitable, from the suddenness of the growth of the building, and his prophecy concerning what was to be made yet of the place, she said: 
               "I shall certainly endeavor to make your predictions good. It will be my fault if the school-house does not prove attractive to the little ones." 
               Mr. Rossiter's quick movement, and steady examination of her face as she said this, seemed to indicate that he was in some doubt as to whether she thoroughly understood why she had come from Old England to teach school in the New. He had himself managed a school when a young man, but certainly not with an idea of entertaining and amusing infancy. Indeed, it had been with him an expedient for the keeping of soul and body together-but that he had forgotten. So he was inclined to question the soundness of Margaret Gladstone's views. 
                
               Something was wanting-what was it? Miss Gladstone's eyes, wandering around on the bare walls, observed the benches, the rude desks here and there among the forms; and Jerome Stanton's eye followed hers. A glimpse of the feeling with which she surveyed the place seemed vouchsafed him, for he said, including Mr. Rossiter in his address: 
               "A man feels warranted in indulging a large hope here. I venture to utter a prediction under this roof. This place will have a sanctity about it second only to that we find in the House of God. Other times shall revert to the instructions and the spirit imparted here. Oh, madam, is it not an inspiring thought that from under your hand shall go forth strong and noble souls to occupy the high and now vacant places of this land! If you have come hither even with the greatest ambition, it seems to me this sphere you are to hold will be sufficient for its satisfaction. You have a glorious work before you." 
               The sincerity and earnestness, the very freedom of the young man's speech, redeemed it from what might otherwise have been a gratulation impertinent. Margaret received the speech in the spirit of its utterance, and answered simply and fervently: 
               "Yes; it is a good work to be rooting out the weeds, and planting the flowers. 'Ill weeds grow apace:' I will be patient with them." 
               "It is for the garden of the Lord," broke in Mr. Rossiter, infected by these words, even to this explanatory extent. 
               "You will help me by your counsel, gentlemen, and I shall rely upon such aids as you can best bestow," she said. 
               But though she received their assurances with gratitude, there was in Margaret's words a strength that proclaimed itself; and the men who heard her felt, unawares, a certain pride, such as men who had foresworn the sinful pride of life might be supposed to feel on this occasion; nor was the satisfaction in any degree lessened by the self-sustained spirit that proclaimed itself, even while acknowledging a certain degree of reliance on them. They did not detect in it a tone, which, under other circumstances, might have deepened till the meaning of her speech was changed. 
               Mr. Rossiter spoke: 
               "We shall at all times esteem it an honor, as it will certainly be a pleasure, so to do. Mr. Stanton, I speak for you as well as for myself. For all my brethren in the holy ministry here, I speak . . . . ." and he lifted his head, and took within the range of solemn promise his fellow laborers, who, unconscious of the obligation he imposed, toiled at their desks, or in the field, or by the way, in that old new world that was a colony and commonwealth of pilgrims two hundred years ago. 
               After a moment's lingering in the school-room, Maud Saltonstall had gone out again. She stood just beyond the door-step looking round her, trying to behold men and things not as trees walking. 
               This was the school room-it was a dismal place to her eyes. Of all places she had seen, or thought of, the most dismal. Even Miss Gladstone's presence when she stood in the room could not make it cheerful and attractive, and so to escape its influence she walked up and down, past the church, past the school-house, to and fro. There was nothing in all that met her eyes that could greatly have inspirited her heart, but she was in that condition of youth that can rejoice, and entirely rejoice, in the present, for the sake of the future. For the most part, people are made to long through youth for the gifts that are bestowed, if ever, late in life; won at an earlier period they would be attained only to be misprized, or squandered away. Life is no prodigal to waste her substance in bestowments where the gift will not be understood. She is generous in her own time, but never a spendthrift. 
               Rich gifts had fallen all at once into the hands of Maud Saltonstall, and she was aware of vast enrichment. Yet, how did all these gifts resolve into one sole acceptation. She had come out from a land secluded, hidden as the land of fairy. And Miss Gladstone was the enchanter who had drawn her forth. She had come to a life, of which she had previously no conjecture. To her inward sense it was a harsher life than she had left. The repose, which circumstances had impelled, was gone. She was aware of a stirring to activity which was a constrained response to a demand not felt nor heard before; for, though her life had not been entirely an idle one, its activities were certainly of another order than those known under the roof of Mr. Rossiter. During the few hours since her arrival, the rigid laws which bound the family had made themselves felt, and they had intimated, even to her, the life that was to be led here. To her soul, if not distinctly to her mind, they had revealed it. 
               While she was thinking of these things, and wondering how they contrasted with the home Miss Gladstone had left behind, Mr. Stanton came to the door of the school-house, and perceiving Maud, whom he had quite forgotten, he came out, and endeavored to enter into a conversation with her. 
               "You have come to live with us, Hope tells me," he said. "To live under the same roof with her, and study from the books she used when she was of your age." High was his estimate of these advantages, as one might gather from the manner of their enumeration; and curious was he to learn the value which the young stranger would attach to them. 
               "There are but three months between us, sir," she said in haste, to set him right. 
               Mr. Stanton smiled to hear her; though the smile at her simplicity and her eagerness to show him his mistake, did not cover his surprise at her statement. 
               "Are you quite sure?" he asked. 
               "O, yes! we talked of it this morning," she answered, quickly, as if eager to assure him; looking up, at the same time, as if to ascertain whether he really doubted her words. 
               "You look very much younger," he merely remarked. At any time his manner of address was less winning than commanding. There was no change in it now. 
               But it did not embarrass Maud. In her intercourse with others she was, as yet, void of the understanding that would set her on the alert. She was innocent, as yet, of a perception of her own intuitions. 
               "That is because I have not worked so hard. But now I am to begin, and then-then I shall look different-more like Hope, I suppose," she said seriously. 
               "Miss Gladstone tells me that you have no sister. It must be very pleasant for you to find one here; one of your own years, too, whom yet you can regard with the confidence you would feel towards an older sister." 
               "And Hope has none. A sister!-that must be very near, must it not?" Maud's eyes were full of a happy light as she looked at Mr. Stanton, saying this. 
               "Very near," he said. It seemed as if he were growing colder and more stately, while she brightened at the thought; but it may have merely seemed so in the contrast. 
               "Nearer than any one," she said, still pondering on the thought. 
               To this he did not respond. Maud did not perceive the fact-did not question if it had a cause, for Miss Gladstone now came from the house, followed by Mr. Rossiter, and Maud beheld her; and as if escaping an influence which she felt to be oppressive, she hurried to meet Margaret. The lady, engrossed with her own thoughts and by her conversation with Mr. Rossiter, merely smiled on Maud, and gave her her hand. Thus they walked home together; and it was a fact that Maud, up to this moment, of all those with whom she had come in contact, had found only Margaret Gladstone, none beside. 
                
               Her spirits may have felt some agitation-her heart may have been quickened with some new impulses-her brain may have felt the burden of the new images presented to it by all this speech she heard, varied and exciting to her, though monotonous in sentiment it might have seemed to others-but Miss Gladstone was actually all she had yet found 
               That same day there occurred an opportunity, of which Maud took advantage, to say to Hope what Mr. Stanton had said of their being sisters now. The relation thus suggested, was a new idea to Hope, and she did not receive it, though it came from Mr. Stanton, as though she deemed it capable of conferring any great satisfaction upon herself. But she covered the coldness with which she heard it with a slight smile, which yet had some warmth for Maud, who was rich enough to afford the mistake. And she said, in a way that had betrayed her to any other ear than that of innocence: 
               "But a great deal older than you, Maud." 
               "That is what Mr. Stanton said, but you know it is only three months. You mean you are older because you know more. I do not like to study as well as you do; but perhaps I shall. I will do my best." 
               "So that you can teach in turn some day," suggested Hope, looking full at Maud, whose returning glance of inquiry assured her there was need of a further explanation. This, according to Hope's usual promptness, was at once rendered. 
               "That is what Miss Gladstone is going to do, is it not? prepare you to assist her in her school." 
               "Is it?" asked Maud, manifestly questioning for information; "I do not know. Do you think it is so; or that I ever could?" 
               "Why not?" 
               "I do not know." 
               "Would you not like it?" 
                
               Like it....? I cannot tell.... It would not all depend on me. Were you ever in a school-room, Hope?" 
               "Oh yes." 
               "Did you like it, Hope?" 
               "I always liked it, but better after they allowed me to go on as I chose to, and did not keep me back on account of the idle and stupid." 
               "Did you go on alone, then?" 
               "Yes," said Hope; she knew not how complacently. 
               "And all the rest were left behind?" 
               "Yes." 
               Maud seemed as glad to hear, as Hope to utter this. It was pleasant to be assured that Hope Rossiter was not the type of all her mates, or of those who would be gathered in Miss Gladstone's school. With what an affectionate sympathy did Maud already regard those laggards who could not keep pace with Hope! Yet she asked, emboldened to do so by the consideration that she was not alone: 
               "Would you not have been glad though, to have had the others with you, Hope?" 
               It was a simple question, and betrayed more guilelessness of nature, more gentleness of heart, than keenness of insight. Carelessly Hope answered: 
               "I did not care for it. I might have perhaps, but for Mr. Stanton. He was a great way in advance of me, and very studious. Still-" and her pride rose with the word-"he was not so far in advance but I could see him. He took an interest in my studies, and so I did not need any companions. I think it was better for me to be alone. If there had been any mates or class for me, I might have become ambitious to outdo them, which would have been very sinful. But he, you see, was so very far beyond me, and so much older, I had no chance." 
               Had she no chance? Was she not daily in the habit of measuring anew the stature unto which she had attained? Did she never reflect on Mr. Stanton's words, which expressed his sense of an equality between them? and was there nothing in the fact that she stood in the relation to him which at present she held, serving him by her own studies day by day? Was there nothing in this fact that impressed itself upon her mind with the weight of proof that she was a student with him, and not his pupil, nor in any way inferior? 
               Maud looked at Hope as she spoke these last words, and did not perceive that the speaker had deceived herself; and, as if aware of an injustice in some of her previous reflections, she hastened to say, with an assuring kindness that came strangely to the listener's ear: 
               "Oh no, I do not think you would . . . . . Would you? If it was a friend you loved, you would be glad to have her in the same class, and you would like to talk it all over, and help each other." 
               Hope Rossiter lost no time in correcting this amiable and very weak conclusion. 
               "It was better for me to be alone," she said; "it always was . . . . . with some one leading the way." 
               "Mr. Stanton knows a great deal, I suppose," remarked Maud. 
               "Mr. Stanton might be a profound scholar. But he relinquishes his private taste for the public good." 
               "How does he do that?" 
               "He devotes his time to people instead of books." 
               "That is very good of him." 
               "Yes; but he would not agree with you. He would tell you that there is no merit in a man's doing his duty. He never praises any body; he says, when we have done all, we are unprofitable servants. He walks in a straight line, and knows everything. He teaches the ignorant, and preaches more out of the pulpit than he does in. He is a most godly person, and a man of great promise; and my father loves him." 
                
               He was crowned in these last words. Hope looked up when she had spoken them, as if everything had been said that could be said of any mortal man. 
               "Don't you all love him?" asked Maud, as if she would thus make amends for the very different train of thought Mr. Stanton's self had excited in her mind that day. 
               "That, perhaps, is not the word," said Hope. 
               She did not turn her eyes from Maud, nor speak with any other than her usual calm composure; but the outward seeming was a false evidence of what was going on within. Did this girl know what she was talking about, to be asking if they did not all love Mr. Stanton? Did she know what the word meant? It was a word that shook Hope Rossiter's soul. Rare utterance it had in her hearing. At the least she could but wonder at the presumption and the ignorance that dared the inquiry. So very composedly, so coldly that Maud Saltonstall was chilled by it, she said: 
               "We all respect and honor Mr. Stanton; he calls our parsonage his home. We are always glad to see him, and we see him very often." 
               "He preaches to people out of the pulpit, you said; what do you mean?" 
               "I mean," said Hope, "that he never comes in contact with others, but he endeavors to ascertain their condition; and if he discovers it to be such as he could aid in any spiritual way, he does his duty. Just as he would preach to you, if he thought you stood in need. And that is the reason he has so many friends. You would be very grateful to him if he took the trouble to do you good." 
               "I never was preached to," remarked Maud, apparently in doubt as to the gratitude. 
               "In church you have been, of course. Do you feel the need of any nearer teaching?" 
               "I never was in a church!" said Maud, as if she would like the conversation to change here; or would be glad to get away, if there were an opportunity. But Hope's interest in the conversation was just waking. 
               "Never in a church!" she exclaimed. "Where then have you been all your days?" 
               "I told you about it, you know. We lived on the farm, and there was no church, so I never saw a preacher till I came here." 
               There was something in Maud's voice that had all the effect of a petition to the ear of Hope, which led her to say, but more gently: 
               "You have never learned to worship God, then. You know nothing about the Sabbath." 
               "Oh yes. I know it is the first day of every week," said Maud quickly, eager to undo the impression Hope was evidently receiving. "We never worked that day." 
               "What did you?" demanded Hope: it was no mercy to spare here. 
               "It was always a happy time," answered Maud, hesitating; then she continued, with a lingering regretful tone, "They were all happy days." 
               "But how did you spend it-the Sabbath, I mean?" repeated Hope, in a quick, authoritative tone, that was not so much impatience as surprise, holding Maud to the point with a determined hand. 
               "We read, and walked about," answered Maud briefly, in turn astonished at the tone of the questioner. 
               "Was it the same as other days, except that you did not work? Was that keeping it holy? Did you never hear that it is the day of the Lord, and that He is to be served in it? Have you never read what was said to Israel in the Prophet Isaiah. 'If thou turn away thy foot from the Sabbath from doing thy pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord honorable; and shalt honor him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words . . . . . I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth.' Can that be a small thing, a vain service which is so rewarded? To ride on the high places of the earth!" 
               Oh, Jesuit missionary, who is it that maligns you? Look at this puritan girl! 
               There was a need of self-vindication here-need of an explanation, and Maud said: 
               "It was always the happiest day to us"-the fresh and sudden memory of those days softened her speech, and opened her heart-"I used to go into the woods, and sing." 
               "What did you sing?" 
               "There was one psalm I loved so much!" 
               Thus far spoke Maud, and then the confiding impulse manifested in her voice died away. There was something in Hope of which she became constantly more aware, that repelled, instead of inviting such confidence as her heart would fain give freely. 
               "Where did you find it? Your mother taught it you, I suppose." 
               "I learned it myself." A 
                     prief
                     brief
                   pause; then looking quickly up, she exclaimed: "'The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth His handiwork.' That was the psalm. The woods were full of it. I loved to sing it when there was a little cool wind stirring that would blow the sound off, and how could I tell where it would go to? I used to wonder sometimes." 
               "A sound is nowhere unless there be ears to hear it," Hope philosophically remarked. 
               "I think there were ears that heard it then," said Maud. 
               "Whose? You were alone; your father's or mother's perhaps you mean?" 
               "No, I did not mean them. I do not know-perhaps it struck somewhere . . . . . I think . . . . . sometimes . . . . . I used to think sometimes;" she went on more resolutely after the hesitation; why should she not say it to Hope? "Sometimes times when I felt very happy without knowing why, I couldn't help thinking that something had happened somewhere to some one that would make me happier if I could know all about it; it did make me happy, though I knew nothing about it. As though I could catch the sound of a beautiful tune, but was too far off for the words. You know ..... So, perhaps, somebody heard me sing, and there surely did, I know." 
               "Was it a song that could rise before the Lord God-a prayer fit to be preserved with those which are kept in the vials beneath the throne?" asked Hope 
               "I sung because I loved to," said Maud, looking at Hope, wondering. "Do you sing, Hope?" 
               "A little." 
               "Let us sing together sometime in the woods. Let us go now, and I can carry the kitten in my arms!" exclaimed Maud, stooping down, and taking up the long-neglected playmate of Hope's childhood in her arms. 
               A smile almost of disdain crossed the handsome face of Hope, as she listened to these childish words, and observed that childish act. 
               "I rarely walk in the woods; and, probably, I do not know anything that you sing," she said in reply. 
               "Oh, I can sing anything, as it happens." 
               "You have had thorough teaching then." 
               "Oh, you know I have had none. Don't you remember I told you, Hope? Do they teach here how to sing, Hope?" 
               "Most certainly. How can one learn without a teacher?" 
               "I do not know-I learned." 
               "Your mother taught you, did she not?" 
               "No; I sang because I could not help it. Everything seemed to be singing. Will the teacher be in school?" 
               "Mr. Stanton used to teach. I know not if he will continue; most probably he will." 
                
               "Oh! ..... Why did I not know? I should have thought I would have heard it, or seen it." 
               "Look at him now! He is coming. Do you see it?" asked Hope; and it almost seemed as if the coming she announced must have had something to do with the freer speech to which, in these last words, she came. She was not hindered now, as most manifestly she had been hitherto. 
               Do not misjudge her. She had been trained into this shape; the same labor otherwise expended had made her very different in form, as in reality she was different at heart, and this, although it still is true that she was her father's child. 
               "I do not see it," answered Maud Saltonstall, observing him as he came, with the purpose and intent of a discovery which keener eyes than hers had failed to make. "But will you ask him to sing?" 
               "What! here?" 
               "Why not? The birds sing when they fly." 
               Instead of replying, Hope advanced a step towards Mr. Stanton. "Maud wishes she might hear you sing, sir. I have been telling her that you were our teacher." 
               "And does she love to sing?" asked Mr. Stanton, in a gentler voice than usual. It was because of Hope. 
               "Yes, I do love it," answered Maud. 
               Hearing which, Mr. Stanton looked at her kindly, and said that they would sing together at family worship in the evening; and then he went on to address Hope, of whom he was thinking when he came to find her. Taking from his bosom a closely-written paper, he gave it to her. 
               "I have read this analysis attentively," said he, "and I find that I am quite satisfied with it. I thank you for giving me thus concisely the substance of that great volume, which I could not have mastered in a month's time. You place me under a perpetual obligation. I should be loth to receive it, but for the great advantage I know you also derive, not only from the exercises which tax your mind, but likewise from the spirit of self-sacrifice; for is it a small thing to render to another such service as I accept at your hands? You have surpassed all your previous attempts in this latest one. My friend, can you doubt now that you are in a right path?" 
             
             
                
               XXV. THE STUDENTS. 
               THESE words fell upon Maud's ear like praise; even such praise as Hope had said Mr. Stanton never gave, and she turned to Hope to hear her answer, perhaps; or to learn the effect of the speech upon her, but as she did so, she saw Miss Gladstone standing in the door of the house, and nothing that Mr. Stanton or Hope Rossiter could say had power to detain her. She went away with her impulse, and Hope, hardly perceiving that she was gone, answered Jerome Stanton: 
               "I am glad the analysis satisfied you. But-do not praise me. You never said as much before." 
               "I never felt occasion. I do not mean to praise you, Hope, but to express my sense of your improvement, and my own obligation." 
               "What is an obligation? If I can help you, Mr. Stanton, is not that a reason why I should." 
               "Yes, Hope Rossiter. It is a reason. Help me then; I want you to help me-always." More words were upon his lip, but he hesitated whether he should speak them then. The hesitation was but momentary, and his next words had a quite different significance from what they might have had. "How does it affect you, having this new addition to the family? Will it disturb your mind, and interfere with your studies?" 
                
               "If I went up to my room I should forget everything outside." 
               "Everything? Your nearest friends, then, I trust, are like thoughts that abide with you forever. I trust, a door could not divide you from them. They are not with you as disturbing presences, but I hope that if they should open your door, and appear really unto you, you would give them a welcome there?" 
               "I do not know who you mean, Mr. Stanton." 
               "Mr. Stanton hesitated again. Hope's eyes were upon him. It was difficult for him to express his meaning clearer; yet he said: 
               "If I, for instance, should come in, would you order me out again, or put me in the corner as punishment for an intrusion." 
               More surprise than Hope Rossiter's face expressed at this hearing she could not possibly express. He was quite serious though, for his eyes had all their usual gravity, though his countenance had not all its ordinary composure. 
               "I would do as my father does," she said: her voice was very gentle; Mr. Stanton thought it had her mother's tone. 
               "You would then give me a place at your table, and let me share your thoughts, and talk with me about your doings, and allow me to aid you, as you would allow yourself." He seemed satisfied with this, and changed the current of his words now, though Hope was not aware of it. She perceived no changefulness of purpose or of aim in this discourse. "That is the true scholar spirit-the true Rossiter spirit. I was not apprehensive that you would be easily distracted. People make a mistake, I think, when they talk of the sacrifices of the student. I condemn myself invariably when the sentiment escapes me. It is not a true one, and I do not endorse it. He has a serener joy than the gayest worldling. He is free from the distractions that wait on the man whose duty calls him among men. I often think of you in your quiet room at work-uninterrupted in your labor, unhindered in it, knowing only the pure delight, and nothing of the difficulty with which obstacles are encountered, and spirits conquered among men. You go on your way unhindered by the evil of others. When I think of you it does me good, for I endeavor to imitate your serenity. I fix my eyes aloft only the more pertinaciously as the way under my feet seems difficult. Never underrate your influence. It comforts and assists me to think of you, still more than to think of your father. He is older and wiser. But Hope, you and I are strugglers together. And God forbid that we should ever pant for rest until we have done everything our hands can find ability, and strength, and opportunity to do." 
               "Yet," said Hope-encouraged by these words to the utterance of thoughts she at another time had hardly dared to entertain, and at any preceding day of her life had not, and could not have entertained-"yet, it was very strange, Mr. Stanton, the feeling I had while that child stood here. Precisely as if the wind had taken to itself shapes embodying the flowers into new forms, brightening all in the sun. While she spoke I felt she has a fairer life than I. But now I see that was not right. There must be a more lasting delight in knowledge than she finds in nature-a better freedom, too, and God is honored by every achievement of the soul." 
               "You are right. The child has much to learn. From her own expressions, and what I have learned of her past life, I judge that she is in heathen darkness, so far as a perception of the true Light is concerned. Blessed be God that she has come hither! No better home could be found for her. Your excellent mother and Miss Gladstone-apparently a most judicious person-your father and yourself, Hope, have a work to do." 
               Solemn grew the face of Hope Rossiter, in view of that labor: by an intuition she perceived more deeply than Stanton its difficulties. Her own heart had been stirred within her by the child's words, by her bearing and being that day. There was that within the soul of Hope that responded to many of the words that Maud had spoken. She might not allow this-might not understand Maud, but she had received a warrant in Mr. Stanton's words, and not only a warrant, but an exhortation, to study the nature of the girl. It was a new study, and it had manifold attractions. Besides, such an aim! 
               "Teach her, Hope, what you have learned so well for yourself, and he repeated the following lines of Francis Quarles, which, before the conclusion of the first verse, absorbed him into an individual expression of his own heart's fervent aspiration: 
                      
                        "The highest honors that the world can boast 
                        Are subjects far too low for my desire; 
                        The brightest beams of glory are (at most) 
                        But dying sparkles of thy living fire; 
                        The loudest flames that earth can kindle be 
                        But nightly glow-worms, if compared to thee. 
                     
                      
                        "Without thy presence wealth is bags of care, 
                        Wisdom but folly; joy disquiet, sadness; 
                        Friendship is treason, and delights are snares; 
                        Pleasures but pain, and mirth but pleasing madness; 
                        Without thee, Lord, things be not what they be, 
                        Nor have they being when compared with thee. 
                     
                      
                        "In having all things and not thee, what have I? 
                        Not having thee, what have my labors got? 
                        Let me enjoy but thee, what further crave I? 
                        And having thee alone, what have I not? 
                        I wish nor sea nor land; nor would I be 
                        Possess'd of heaven, heaven unpossessed of thee." 
                     
                  
                
             
             
                
               XXVI. WORSHIP. 
               THE clearest thought Maud Saltonstall carried with her when she went back to the house, and to Miss Gladstone, was, that Mr. Stanton could sing, and could teach others. It was of this she spoke to Margaret; it was because Maud spoke thus to her that Margaret Gladstone's eyes beamed with light celestial on the child; it was for this she waited impatiently till that hour of twilight when the family assembled for worship, and Mr. Stanton led them in their hymn. 
               Should it not have served a better purpose than to send the child to sleep? But the fatigue arising from the doings of the day-the exhaustion attendant on much mental excitement, the hour, the time, the voices, all these causes conjoined, swept away Maud's consciousness, and she actually sat in her chair and slept, while Hope wondered, as verse after verse begun and ended, that no effort was made by her to join in a tune so simple. If the teacher had but sung, Maud never would have slept; but Margaret was hoarse with a cold, and the loud noise Jerome Stanton made with his voice, was no more music to Maud Saltonstall than the noise of a broken hurdy-gurdy is to the soul of song. Nature, who loved Maud, let her go to sleep instead of torturing her nerves to anguish. 
               But Nature will not always kindly interfere. She did not hinder Maud Saltonstall by any sort of warning from saying to Hope Rossiter as they went up the stairs together, that, in her opinion, Mr. Stanton's singing was no music, and that she hoped he would never be her teacher. 
               Perhaps it was because she was shocked by such freedom of speech-or else her surprise on account of it was too great for an expression-Hope made no comment on the criticism. She forgot it presently when she began transcribing from a choice book of her father's into a manuscript volume which she was preparing as a gift for Mr. Stanton. Which proved one of two things, that her estimate of Maud's judgment was not such as Maud's best friend would be willing to allow, whatever the child herself might think of it; or, that she herself placed a small value on the power of song. An acceptation of either explanation would throw a light upon the character of Hope. I have said, intending that the words should convey no ordinary meaning, that Hope was her father's child. 
               What, then, of her father? Can not all that run read the character of Justin Rossiter? 
               It is to be observed that persons who obtain a victory over themselves by flying from temptations, are not always the most lenient towards others-not the most humane and charitable. Mr. Rossiter was not, strictly speaking, a charitable man. 
               They have battled successfully, why should not others? Time's mould having spread over their own weakness, temptation being removed, the reality of their experience is clean forgotten. Is it not better to grapple with an enemy and die in the fierce conflict, than seek forever a hiding-place from him; or to indulge in ruinous self-deceit concerning your own safety, while your foe lives unappeased? 
               Mr. Rossiter had entirely forgotten himself, until Maud Saltonstall came to revive his recollection. 
               Had Maud come before his sight only to disappear again, still the evil-if evil such discovery of a man to himself may be called-was effected. He did stand on a great height-but the elevation was volcanic. 
               The ruined heart was turbulent. The passionate youth's madness had been restrained and curbed because its opportunity was gone. He had fallen to a comparatively placid range of feeling-to labor, to ambition, watching, prayer, DUTY-because the mainspring of his life was broken. 
               Puritanism caught him when he fell-and he never struggled in the arms of his preserver. Conscience was pacified-ambition became the heir of passion. He gave to God a gift which God did never yet require, or accept, at any mortal's hands. Having done this, having entered on his career, which, because of its entire novelty, attracted him, inciting to the exercise of all his latent intellectual power, and making of him as he seemed to believe, no other demand, he had gone on in his even course, nor ever suspected the foundation on which he built his altar. He had quite forgotten to fear. So long had he lived immersed in the cares by which we found him surrounded, that he had forgotten how he once had occasion to suspect his soul's integrity and his heart's aspirations. 
               But when Maud came, the testimony of twenty years perished under the torch of truth. The fierce flame left nothing of it but the ashes. He had deceived himself. For twenty years he had played with solemn words, and lived, to all purposes, the life of an impostor. He charged himself with this, for in the astonishment of the discovery made to him by the appearance of Maud Saltonstall, he surrendered and forsook all his defences. Oh what havoc followed that surrender and forsaking! 
               Though it were but for an instant, though the self-control made possible by the habitual exercise was speedily exerted, still the dereliction, the self-forsaking, was sufficient to acquaint him with himself, to show him that he was living in a show. To prove to him that he lacked merely the opportunity nity to sin. That with his whole soul, had that opportunity been his, he would again have made the choice once made, would have followed his desire and his hope more truly than he followed now his vows. 
               Justin Rossiter had fashioned in his youth a tomb for all these memories which Maud's coming wakened. When he buried them he looked for no more resurrection: would never have admitted the possibility to his own thoughts. But here they were, thronging round him-distracting him-filling his soul with fear. 
               Deep in the earth granite mountains flow in floods of fire. Beneath his calm exterior, in his central nature, was a pent fire whose light fell never on his wife's face, never on his daughter's. He loved the woman of whom Maud's face spoke, her mother it might be, it must be, he thought, not as he loved these; the quickened youth of the man rebelled against his riper years. It scoffed at his pursuits, at his tame dulness, at his ambition; it taunted him with the weak self-deception whereby he had sustained himself; and showed him how he had run for safety to the church and hidden himself within its altar, and then held up before his eyes, the revocation of the law that ensured safety to all who sought the refuge of the sacred temples as shelter for their endangered lives. 
               It pointed to the life of Margaret Gladstone, and contrasted it with his; here was one who, indeed loving the truth, had come to labor for it; he might not range his life, with all its reputed sacrifices and labors, on a level with hers of pure intent. Flying-from himself-he had entered the Promised Land. But is the fugitive ever secure within his soul? 
               When he beheld Maud Saltonstall, Mr. Rossiter remembered the girl with whom he passed his youth in that delicious dreaming which never has a repetition in any soul's experience. He had gained nothing then, nothing in the honorable labors of twenty years, that enabled him to look back upon the event of early life without mortal anguish in the sense of all its loss; or without mortal sin in his manner of regarding it. He would have broken every barrier to have regained what he had lost. 
               And could he look calmly on the girl who had come thus unannounced into the midst of his household to take up her abode there? Must he not fear and shun, or hate or love her, with all the strength of his aroused passion? She moved into his life with the effect we might imagine of a great comet among the constellations. To his view her path was of fire, and it exhausted his atmosphere. He would have her removed instantly from his sight;-his good wife said to herself he did seem troubled over much on the addition to his family, and to her cares; and, drawn herself towards the bright young face, she had contrived a little speech to be delivered at the first opportunity to the stranger child, that she might lead her to be cautious in her conduct, and guarded especially against intrusion of any description on the studious life of Mr. Rossiter. Yes; he would have had her removed instantly from his sight-so he thought-but he would have contrived to prevent such removal had any attempt been made by any person to effect it. He would not have allowed it. And yet he did not suspect this. On the contrary, he prayed to be delivered from temptation with an ardor and an emphasis that proclaimed his earnestness, even at a time when he was thinking to take advantage of the first opportunity for questioning Maud Saltonstall about the home that she had left. No great need of caution, one would suppose, in making such inquiries as he proposed; not a soul in the house would have wondered at such questioning, had it been made before the assembled family. It is 
                     "Conscience that makes cowards of us all."
                  
                
               He was stung by the truth of which Maud came the revelator lator. He might have been stung and yet not blasted. But the worst thing came upon him. The discovery he made in regard to himself did not drive him, as past delinquencies had done, during his ministerial career, to prayer and fasting. A deeper depth was opened to him that showed him his own nature as he had never seen it before, and instinctively he shrunk from the iniquity of applying the usual remedies. He was not yet ready to come to repentance and forsake his sinful repining and desire. 
               Miss Gladstone's position and bearing in her new relation gave her a prominent place in the social circle of the town where she had now made her home. The church was specially interested in her. She came free of all relations and gave herself to her work; for this reason pious hearts regarded her as a child of adoption. She had been redeemed from the world. She was one who by her position must leave the traces of her influence on the minds of succeeding generations. Margaret did not come to her sphere like a crowned queen; but as the faithful pilgrim. When she stepped on this new stage of action none that beheld her knew with what plaudit her previous appearing had been hailed. How did she endure the contrast? High occasions-as the prospect of sudden death-might find her equal to them; but this round of common duty, monotonous and tiresome, what was it to her? It was a test that she could meet. She was prepared to answer her obligations to the church, and to social life as she found it here and to fill her office to its capacity. 
               The influence of such a woman on the minds of those among whom she was thrown is not easily estimated. She had the wisdom of the world, and the virtue of the saint. Her sanctity of character was pure and lustrous as a diamond. The grace of God had, in her soul, large room for action; it was no straightened place. Her generosity and courage, leavened by holiness of faith, brought her spirit to a capacity of sacrifice fice, and ability of action, which the mere religionist, never lifted from his baseness by his faith, cannot possibly attain unto. There are some such natures in every age as hers-not many, for though many be called but few are chosen-and to them martyrdom is an exclusive privilege-the patent of nobility. Not martyrdom, however, in this world's foolish sense. 
               It was in the school, where, after it was organized, Maud Saltonstall saw most of her teacher. 
               On her own account Margaret Gladstone was satisfied with her new home. She came to it prepared for all discomfort, and for all satisfaction. 
               When Lady Margaret Leigh wrote to her, "Do nothing in haste, but remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how He said, even to an apostle, 'are ye able to drink of this cup, and to be baptized with this baptism?' We who know you best know well there will be no looking back when the hand that has received a crown shall be laid upon the plough. But consider, God loveth the cheerful giver, and understand well first of all, if there shall be throughout a lifetime perfect cheerfulness and joy in this service you shall render. I would not tempt, but caution you; there is large room for you here to fill. We grieve to lose you-but not if He is leading you." Margaret Gladstone answered her, "He is leading me-I need a new sphere and new duties. Do not doubt, do not fear for me. I could do no more in the profession I abandon, than I had done. I should do less that ever I have done did I now continue in it. Hitherto I have acted according to my convictions. So must I still do or my life falls. You know me-I am not fickle. I believe that when the sweetness and joy departed from my vocation, leaving victories only the power to mock me-constant reminders of the loss they could not satisfy-I was thereby notified that my mission as a singer was fulfilled. The spirit is gone from me that delighted in those things; but it has not wholly departed -it still guides me-I follow no Will-o'-wisp to the western wilderness." 
               To this wilderness Margaret Gladstone came, prepared to meet intolerance, bigotry, ignorance-prepared to overlook these infirmities of nature, to tarry in their midst, hoping, as other noble souls there hoped, and striving with them. She was satisfied with her surroundings; was prepared to dwell in peace under Mr. Rossiter's roof; to consult with him in the formation of all her plans; to reverence his character, and defer to his judgments. 
               And not less satisfied was she with her new surroundings on Maud's account. To the teacher's mind Hope Rossiter was a model student, whose solidity of character, and extraordinary acquirements, could but render her the best of all examples for Maud's consideration. The thoroughness of her education, her fixed religious principles, rendered her the most desirable of all examples to a girl like Maud. 
               She may have been mistaken in this. But Hope's influence was certainly such an influence as Maud Saltonstall could not avoid feeling. How did she feel it? Wonderingly, confusedly, at first. The seeming perfection was irksome and oppressive to her thoughtful observation. How could she assume an attitude of receptivity towards the wisdom of Hope Rossiter, without, even in her responses, betraying in-capacity for it? Had Hope known herself better, the difference between herself and Maud would never have been allowed such demonstration as it had in her daily life. She would never have sought such frequent occasion of conspicuity. Indeed had she known herself better there had not existed so mighty a difference between herself and Maud. It was the artificial life into which education had inducted her, that afforded the strange contrast. The artificial life, I say, for no one will dispute the fact that a religious life, or what is sometimes called such, may be as artificial as the life of the veriest fashionist. 
                
               It was not Hope's gravity of demeanor, and her decision in utterance, that made her remarkable in Maud's eyes. 
               Nothing could ever exceed the gravity of her own mother. It was all of which this gravity and this decision were expressive, that came between her and Hope, a strong, high barrier. Hope's devotions and aspirations, so far as they found any expression, were an incomprehensible mystery to Maud. Yet she could not avoid their effect. The mystery urged her on in her own studies, and Miss Gladstone, perceiving her industry, added her encouragement to this influence. The motives were both potent, but not equally pleasing and powerful. It was not agreeable to live under so constant a sense of superiority as that of Hope Rossiter. If Maud had possessed any ambition, or had she been possessed of any, this sense might be its ignoble excitant. But the same influence as to tendency, if not quality, rested in Miss Gladstone's loving oversight, and genial encouragements. 
               But could anything be more opposed to the life of freedom Maud had led, than subjection to the society of laws and ordinances, to the formality and restriction of daily life in that parsonage? Oh, how hard they fought the lions! How rigidly they did deny themselves, until their gravity seemed a rebuke to the gay smiling of the sun, and the beauty of the flowers. 
               With all these regulations, formalities, restrictions, injunctions, laws, ordinances, and economies, Miss Gladstone came into a graceful and ready relationship. She understood and respected the spirit of exaction. Maud did neither. She only felt the bondage, and the poverty, and want. Coming as Margaret Gladstone did from a post of observation where she had scanned the whole field, to dwell within the camp, she could note, with understanding and appreciation, the scrupulous exactness with which household matters were arranged, the narrowness of expenditure corresponding to the narrowness of means; the courageous integrity, that denied itself, scorning all advantage, to live within its lawful boundaries, perceiving that this exactness in the conduct of domestic affairs was a part of religious obligation, and not the evidence of parsimony. 
               Her religious enthusiasm, strong as it was to carry her through hardship and danger to a total self-abnegation, was held in check, but not in bonds, by an admirable prudential spirit, which was its security against running into any excess in an undue anxiety to escape and avoid all that might smack of compromise with the evils they most deprecated and feared. 
               There was that about the children of her charge which told how deeply the idea of Puritanism had entered into the soul of this portion of the race. The teacher was expected to deepen all these impressions and lodgments; to quicken the spirit of religion and liberty where it had not yet made itself manifest: she was equal to her task. And it was one she loved, but it was Puritanism and not bigotry for which she had come into this new world-and principle, not opinion, she would inculcate. It would depend therefore more upon others than herself whether she filled her office to general satisfaction. But none could question on that day, when she stood for the first time with her work around her, smiling tranquilly upon her charge, surveying it in the composure of a great hope, yet not without enthusiasm, no one could doubt whether she would pursue her task with patient hope and a conscience void of offence. 
             
             
                
               XXVIII. THE GULF. 
               MANY a day and many a week passed, and still Mr. Rossiter had not settled in his mind the question raised with the appearing of Maud Saltonstall. 
               He had neither attained to the quiet and calm which is the inheritance of those who resist temptation, nor had he followed the impulse that, besetting him day after day, could but enfeeble his energy, and distract his thoughts, even in the midst of ordinary occupations, completely excluding him from the labors in which he had once been immersed, by which he had been engrossed. I said, that by the relation she sustained, unawares, towards him, Mr. Rossiter must either fear, or hate, or love Maud Saltonstall. Which he would do depended on an event-depended on that conversation which should come at length, in few words or many. As yet he was conscious of love, and fear, and hate towards her, but of neither absolutely. She stole upon his thoughts, a vision of beauty, bearing another name than Maud, yet Maud in form and face. She stole in upon his privacy, while saintly men were citing him among the few saints, so truly living as to be dead to the world. And then he loved her. He himself grew young. His daily life fell from him as a garment; he stepped forth from its sternness, and barrenness, a lover and a youth. He clutched at lost delights of life with the eagerness of one whom long denial and withholding has not chilled into indifference. He answered her sweet voice with a voice as full of melody as hers. He looked upon her eyes with eyes as full of light and gladness. He sat by her side, looking off into the future, careless of its unfoldings, so certain of them in the pride of present possessions. Oh, youth! oh, love! 
               It was perhaps Maud's living voice, or her step upon the stair which he had learned so well to know, that broke the spell the thought of her had occasioned, and brought him back to himself, his labors, to Miss Gladstone, to his wife, to his daughter, as to living reproaches, to his conscience, to the life he had cast off; and then he hated the image that had come, to ruin him he said;-to save him he might have said;-but this he would not. For without her he had not known himself. 
               At other times, even in the midst of his sacred labors, in preaching, in prayer, or in exhortation, that same face and voice would rise, full of reproachful denunciation, and the man became a coward. And not the grace of God, but the energy of his spirit, alone prevented at such times his total discomfiture; it maddened him to eloquence, and stung him into fervent pathos. 
               He stood in his study door one morning waiting for her, for he knew that Maud was coming up the stair. Could he have seen his own face as he rose up from his chair and crossed the room, and opened that door, he would have closed it and barred it, would have fought a good fight, and it may be have come off victorious, but he was in too much haste to notice even his own thoughts on this occasion. He had in a moment, at the sound of her approach, risen up in defiance to every fear of conscience: he would speak to Maud! 
               Afterwards what must come, must. 
               He opened the door as she came along the landing, and he called her. He had a little work he wanted her to do. It pleased Maud that he called her. She did not cease to smile her pleasure even when she looked at the book of MS. in which he wished the copy made. She sat down to the business, resolute, and wrote, on the same page where Hope had written, passages which Mr. Rossiter pointed out to her in a book he gave her. It was the first time he had ever called upon her to assist him. She truly hoped to please him. 
               He sat near her, yet not in sight, and seemed to read while she wrote; but he was wondering how he should open the way to so difficult a discovery as the home-life of Maud Saltonstall. 
               She herself opened the way; for, having written a few lines, she rose hastily from the table, exclaiming as she turned and faced Mr. Rossiter: 
               "I can't do it." 
               The good man looked slowly up from his book, and a surprise appeared upon his face, that was not assumed. He did not ask an explanation of the impossibility; and not understanding the expression of the eyes that bent upon her, she turned to the table, took up the book, and carried it to him, and she laughed in her embarrassment as she pointed to the contrast between her ill-written words as they stood contrasted with the fine, graceful lines of Hope. 
               Mr. Rossiter also smiled as he took the book from Maud's hands and examined the result of her momentary labor, and she, perceiving his smile, said: 
               It's the ink, may be, that looks so strange to me. I used to write with red ink, but I never wrote very much. It's more than the ink that's to blame though, you think, sir." 
               "Never mind," said Mr. Rossiter; "I can read it very well; you will do better,"" he added, encouragingly, and then to his subject-to his subject! "How did you make red ink?" 
               "Of the berries." 
               "Who taught you to make it?" 
                
               "Oh, it was nothing to learn, sir. May be I taught myself. I don't recollect." 
               "Perhaps your mother taught you?" He had said it-yet how quietly! But what availed the answer? Much, though it was merely a. . . . . 
               "Perhaps so." 
               "It was of your mother, I suppose, that you learned to write?" 
               "Of her and my father," Maud answered. 
               "Were they both your instructors?" he continued. 
               "Yes, both," she answered. 
               Mr. Rossiter must go further. He would penetrate the revery into which Maud had fallen; and he asked her, if Miss Gladstone in anything resembled her mother in the method of her teaching. He questioned her about their way of life; he led her on, with the careful skill of an inquisitor, until the vision of Abigail grew up from the desert of her life, as the old gods of the heathen rise from their great sepulchres of sand. He did not quite see her as she was. He made her fill a grander place in his imagination than she could have done in reality. His heart throbbed through the questioning almost convulsively; under his calm front his spirit was tossed wildly to and fro. Unsuspecting, Maud moved along the crater's edge. She loved to hear his questioning. Mr. Rossiter stood before her in a light attractive as new from the moment she sat down at his table to do his bidding. For him she brought forward her home, her father and her mother to view, idealized; and he idealized the image so received, again endowing Abigail, the woman, with the maiden's charms, endowing her with a gloomy grandeur of character and person, to which, had she dwelt in the midst of the world, she might have made good claim. 
               Possessed of this image he let Maud go; and she went gaily out, never dreaming of the tragic nature of the interview from which she went. She had lightly, though lovingly, uttered her true words, and he had listened with insanity of heart. With a soft voice he had questioned her, and won her confidence for ever; but he had listened in a mood that, had she known it, would have smitten her soul with terror and shame. 
               The child had gone. He loved her. She had given him back her mother. He no longer feared-it was impossible that he should hate-he loved her; not as he loved Hope. There was no innocence, purity, generosity, manliness, in such a love as this. He loved Maud for the mother's sake. Henceforth her home was under his roof. He would protect her for her mother's sake. He would still have done so had it been to the wronging of all who bore his name. If he suffered there was yet another to whom life was a weary way, and the things of life a burden. One other, among the myriads of whom the same thing might be said. He could return to his labors, to his duties. Think how!-to his duties! He had satisfied himself-was no longer distracted. Maud was there. There she should remain. There in his daily sight. The sun should fall upon her hair, and he behold the richness of its lustre, and he would then remember; she could come in and out before him; he should hear her voice, and watch her movements, and-be reminded. Let no one suggest to him the consequences of all this in his own breast; or seek to warn or attract him otherwise. He is beyond all things, except God and the devil. 
               Exhausted by the restraint he had put upon himself in resisting the impulse to fierce and rapid questioning, while he spoke on in so calm and kind a tone, exhausted he sat in his study when Maud was gone. How dared he think? He did not think-he dreamed. 
               He went down from his study that day, and on succeeding days; he was in the midst of his family, and among his fellow-men; he had not changed to them yet, how was he changed! Fetters had fallen from him, but he was conscious of new and yet closer bonds. He studied, read, prayed, taught, as heretofore, tranquilly, ambitiously, but what had happened to him? What had Justin Rossiter lost? He had gained something, but what was it he had lost? His wife perceived no change in the nature and quality of his abstractions, but she did observe, and rejoiced in the fact, that he was kind to Maud. His daughter, Mr. Stanton, the congregation, were his pupils still-they could never suspect their teacher. So he lived in their midst, deceived in turn by the deception under which they labored. 
             
             
                
               XXIX. THE FRIENDS. 
               LOITERING one morning around the school-house, which, day after day, Miss Gladstone entered with a punctual regularity, that might have served the bell-man as an indicator, was a young stranger who had arrived in the town the night preceding. He came in-from what foreign port I know not-destitute, even as he had been picked up by the outward-bound vessel, which, after its appointed voyage, had brought him back to the port for which he had sailed when he first adventured on the Atlantic. 
               It was Archibald Kensett, and he was in search of Margaret Gladstone. 
               He knew that she was living; it was to discover the place of her abode, and to fulfil, as he best might, the premise he had given her of a life of labor, that he had returned in the vessel to this port. He knew that she was living before he came to port; of her safety he had not entertained a solitary doubt; and now he had already seen her on this day. When he went up the street in the direction of the school-house, he beheld her, but before he could reach her she had entered it, with the children that were playing round the door. So he was now on guard. 
               There was not much excitement, but a great deal of expectation in his face, as he waited in the street. There was nothing in his presence to indicate the experience through which he had passed not long ago. The most apparent change was in his dress, which was very different from that in which his own taste had arrayed him in those voyaging days when we first met; but the state of destitution in which he was picked up at sea had left him no choice. So he moved about in his gray small clothes, and long black coat, and steeple-crowned hat, a curious object to himself-for the cavalier's dress was more to his taste than the Puritan-until the glimpse of Miss Gladstone put himself out of his mind. 
               When the children left the school, he waited in the shadow of the church until they had passed by, and then went on in the path they had left. At the school-room door he met Maud Saltonstall. 
               "My child," said he, "is the teacher within?" 
               Maud looked at him wonderingly, to hear him say that. She would have laughed outright, so young and fair he looked, in contrast with the grave and anxious faces with which of late she had become familiar; but Debby Lynch had gone on, and either that fact, or some other equally potent, restrained her mirth, and she said: 
               "She is coming out directly. Shall I call her?" 
               "No, thank you; but you may tell me her name." 
               "That is Miss Gladstone." 
               "It is she I wanted. Is she alone?" 
               "I was the last out, sir." 
               Kensett bowed, and turned from Maud. But she stood still where she was standing when he spoke; stood, and watched him until he went into the school-room, and closed the door behind him. 
               When he had gone in, she turned away, and ran until she came to Deborah, who waited for her just beyond the armory-the armory, which defended the Meeting House on one side, as the School House defended it on the other. 
               Now, the pinched-up life of Debby Lynch seemed not the one to which Maud Saltonstall would choose to attach herself self. But the gray cat of the parsonage, sole plaything of Hope's childhood, and the little flower garden, and Mr. Stanton's Psalm Book, were not matters of sufficient capacity to altogether, and continually, satisfy a girl like Maud. She might smooth the ruffled fur of the cat, and listen awhile to its purring. She might anticipate the weeds in the little garden plot, and gather the seeds as they ripened; she might turn the leaves of Mr. Stanton's book, and apply the tunes she had learned to psalms and hymns; but something was still wanting which found its best, though far from adequate satisfaction, in little Debby Lynch. 
               It was a strange spirit that was lodged in this quaint figure of childhood. A spirit that needed but the warrant of her impulses-such a warrant as strong physical organization confers-in order to make itself loftily manifest. Marvellously quick and keen in her perceptions, fearless and determined in her likings and dislikings, these strong qualities were hidden under a quiet exterior, and a shrinking timidity, which had kept her actual self from observation up to the hour when she and Maud Saltonstall became friends. 
               Maud Saltonstall filled her heart to overflowing. Maud's free and fearless speech, when the constraints of the parsonage were removed from her, sounded like words of magic in Deborah's ear, and really had the effect of magic. Who can tell how much it was to Maud to have found this little listener with her unending sympathies! Her sense of freedom in this companionship was not, perhaps, really more joyous than that conferred by the loftier friendship with Miss Gladstone; but in that case the love was differently tempered. Maud and Deborah were on a level, and the question of superiority was one that would probably never be discussed by either. Seldom they talked of their studies or advancement to one another, but they were never at a loss for a topic; and many a strange talk they held in the School House, as they lingered there, when the scholars were all gone, or on their way homeward, or in the woods back of the parsonage, whither they often went on their Saturday afternoon, to enjoy there an hour of holiday. 
               Innocent were their pleasures-most childish their enjoyments-inexpressibly wearisome to Hope Rossiter would their amusements have been; but they were dear children of nature; and the western wilderness sheltered no purer hearts. 
               It was a friendship in its impulse, differing not in the least from those that school-girls form as naturally as they breathe. Deathless to the seeming, but feeble for endurance as the spider's web. Circumstance has all to do with determining these friendships; character not much. But in this instance character did have its share of influence. It strengthened what circumstance alone might have continued. Neither of these girls was so rich or so poor as to be able to do without the other; and consequently, day by day, their union assumed a broader basis, and became more intelligible in its form. I do not know that either of them vexed herself with wondering how long this should last, or that they made any vows which might lay open their sincerity to a suspicion, but every morning it happened that Deborah went by the parsonage, and Maud came out and joined her, and they walked on to school in pleasant company-demurely, as became the quiet road along which they passed, but joyfully as did befit their years and hearts. If they stood on the steps of the school-house to talk with the other girls as they came, they seldom lost sight of each other; and in learning their tasks they gave mutual assistance, which had the effect to strengthen their union, if in no other way to aid them. 
               They went out into a broader field of speculation than often invited them, now, when Maud came up to the place where Deborah waited for her. 
               "Who was it, Maud?" asked Debby. 
               "There's but one I wish it were," answered Maud, thoughtfully. 
                
               "Who is that, Maud?" 
               "The young man that was on the vessel." 
               "What vessel?" 
               "That Miss Gladstone came in, you know. I told you." 
               "Oh, if it could be!" 
               "Yes!" said Maud, in a still deeper excitement of wishing, encouraged by Deb's sympathy. 
               "I think it's the young man," said Debby, in a very grave tone of conviction. 
               "Why?" asked Maud, perfectly willing to be persuaded. 
               "It ought to happen to her. She would be so glad. Did she say he was so beautiful?" 
               "I never heard Miss Gladstone speak of that. But I think-did you see him?" 
               "Yes." 
               "What did you think, Debby?" 
               "Beautiful!" 
               "He will come home with Miss Gladstone. I'll tell you about him this afternoon then, Debby," said Maud, grateful for that last word of Deb, as though the praise were a matter of personal concernment. 
               They never lingered to talk before the parsonage door; and, as they had now arrived there, Deborah went on, and Maud went in, and both of them were thinking of the young stranger; and to both of their imaginations his face was as the face of an angel. 
               Deborah went on to her father's house-her father was a blacksmith; there was no time spent in idling there when she was out of school; she was preserved from the employment of Satan, who ever finds some mischief still for idle hands to do, by the zeal of her good mother; there was no one to whom she might speak of the stranger, whose appearing was the event of that day's life; she had hardly opportunity to recall the pleasant face of the manly young fellow, or the strong pride there was in his walk as he strode away, or the beautiful hair that fell upon his shoulders in rich curling locks, or the look of his eyes, and his blooming cheek. She had little time to think even of these things, but already he was inaugurated as the prince of her fairy land, who had come from the sea, after, who could tell what adventures? brave and strong as a warrior. It was now again the same with her as it had been when Maud and she first came together, with the difference which her development since that time supposes. So little Debby Lynch was both happier and sadder that day than she had ever been before. It was precisely with her as with every one before whom the world is opening. The language of the story-tellers of the East is never too gorgeous for the theme on which they dwell. I know it by heart, but never mastered it for speech. Stand aside, Deborah-be not astonished, full heart and busy brain-millions of sepulchres within the earth and sea have tenants just like you. Soft be their slumbers, for they "loved much;" as for you, Deb, do your work; learn your task; be off to school again. The world does not stand still-the heavens will not fall. Girl, look up! get used to strange things-they are in perpetual occurrence. It may be you shall yet find more to marvel at than a young man come to town. 
             
             
                
               XXX. ALIVE FROM THE DEAD. 
               COULD Maud have looked within the school-room and beheld what went on there while she and Debby Lynch were discussing probabilities, she would have seen the teacher standing in a position towards the outer world such as she had never before held. Receiving, as from the grave, a son. As his mother might have done, so opened she her arms before Kensett's sudden appearing; and as a son Kensett sped to her embrace. Maud would have heard him sob and weep-the brave young prince of fairy land-as though the terror and the horror of the wreck were but now escaped. She would have seen Margaret Gladstone's tears falling without restraint as he sat down beside her on one of the school benches, telling his adventures; how he had been rescued; whither he had been carried; and that his chief desire in life, at times his only one, was to get back to the port for which they had sailed together, that he might discover what tidings had been brought, if any, of that lost vessel or of her. 
               He told her, in a voice sunken to a whisper, how the courage and faith she had exhibited, had encouraged and strengthened him while he struggled in the storm; how he had fortified himself anew with the vows, first uttered in her hearing, while he strove for life: he told her of the distant port 
                     to to
                     to
                   which the vessel, that proved his deliverance, had borne him, and that he had come again, not as he first came, but with the purpose, whether he found her on earth or not-the purpose formed in memory of the victory he had seen her obtaining over the world and the fear of death. He would study for the ministry-he would serve God in the land to which he had come. 
               When Kensett thus made known his purpose, Miss Gladstone started up. 
               "Come then," she said, "Mrs. Rossiter will be concerned at my absence; come with me to my home, dear brother in our Lord." 
               And as they went, she had her tale to tell, of her night and day in the deep-of her waking on the shore-of the shelter she had found, and the charge she had undertaken. Briefly she sketched the progress of these events; when she ceased speaking, Kensett said: 
               "God and yourself, then, were the only persons working in your behalf. When you were disabled he completed your security. Significant fact. The young child, I take it, is to be your continual token-it is as if you had erected a monument which year by year shall be adorned and beautified in memory of this event." 
               The "young child" whom Kensett had before his mind was also before his eyes, if he had but lifted them to see. She stood in the door of Mr. Rossiter's house, watching as they came down the street, all unobserved; as they came nearer she retreated within the door, and after a moment's doubt and hesitation she went up to the room occupied by Miss Gladstone and herself. And presently she heard Margaret following up the stairs, knocking at Mr. Rossiter's study door, and then again descending to show the stranger into that chamber where the minister received his guests when business of any moment, or privacy, was to be discussed. 
             
             
                
               XXXI. THE REVOLUTION. 
               MR. ROSSITER was standing in the middle of the study, his spectacles pushed up on his head, his arms folded on his breast, waiting, when Miss Gladstone ushered in Archibald Kensett, and announced his name. 
               As she did so the minister's arms uncrossed, with both hands he extended a welcome to the youth. 
               "I am sure that you are welcome," he repeated. "Sit down, sir." He gave Kensett his own study chair, withdrawing it scarcely a foot from the study table. And the cordiality with which he spoke was perfectly sincere. "Miss Gladstone," he said again, drawing his spectacles over his eyes, "I join with you in returning thanks to Him who gives life and protects it. Blessed be His name! Young man, do you bring with you more recent tidings of the lost ship, or any of its passengers, than we have already received?" 
               Kensett, in a few words, said that he knew nothing of the fate of the passengers; he saw the vessel go down, but after the first day in the sea he was insensible, and could only tell that none beside himself were picked up by the vessel in which he returned. 
               Miss Gladstone's hopes, if not her purposes, were already formed, and she said, preparing the way for some expression of them, "Mr. Kensett has arrived here, Mr. Rossiter, with the determination of remaining in this land, and of entering the profession you love best. He, too, would serve our Creator in this new world, and make His paths straight." 
               Again, and with a warmth of feeling rarely excited, and still more rarely manifested by him, Mr. Rossiter grasped the young man's hand, and bade him welcome. 
               Margaret Gladstone observed him with anxious scrutiny, and she was satisfied with Mr. Rossiter on this occasion; her mind was at rest. She had now no fear that what she desired in behalf of Kensett would not in some way be brought to pass. She had something to say of the destitution in which Kensett, as well as herself, had been cast on these shores, but the young man was spared all after reflection on this subject by Mr. Rossiter's words. 
               "You must stay with us, for a few days at least, sir, until you have looked about your new home. Mrs. Rossiter will bid you welcome; it gives us pleasure to receive under our roof one to whom the Lord hath been so gracious, and to share with Miss Gladstone in her joy." 
               These words were repeated with a cordiality quite as grateful, if less absolutely essential, when the party from the study obeyed the summons to dinner, which Maud was sounding in the entry below. It was an occasion on which some honor could be done to the teacher in the reception of her friend, and then the whole train of circumstances which had preceded and occasioned the coming of this destitute stranger to their house, instead of any other house on the shores of the new world, conspired to make him welcome there. 
               Hospitable room was made for him at the frugal table; he had even Mr. Stanton's place, which was opposite that occupied by Maud Saltonstall, and at Mr. Rossiter's right hand. 
               At this table little conversation ever passed. The meals were commonly dispatched in silence, nor was this rule even now so far departed from as to allow any conversation beyond what was demanded by the courtesies of the occasion. 
                
               Mr. Rossiter's aspect, as he sat at the head of his table, erect, unbending, abstracted, never invited, even the most loquacious guest, to much speech while the meal went on. This was not his time of relaxation. One was tempted to doubt if ever such a time did come to him. He broke his bread and fed upon it as a matter of course, or a matter of necessity, and it did not refresh and open his soul, soften or animate his spirits. 
               His low, monotonous voice, when he spoke, his aspect in repose, was sufficient to subdue the gayest spirits. One felt that the curse was over creation, and cried out for the long tarrying Redeemer, when his influence prevailed. His presence was felt, but it was not the master spirit on this occasion; yet every speaker was well aware that there were restrictions to be observed, and limitations to be held in view; therefore low were the voices, and the words were few. 
               But it was a gay festival to Maud. So much had not been said at all the meals in the parsonage since the day they came, as was spoken, at this dinner. She was content to sit mute in her place, and listen to what was said-she had now something of her own to tell Debby Lynch. Wonderful guesses she made-and marvelous inspirations she had on that occasion. 
               After the young gentleman had been presented to Mrs. Rossiter and Hope, Miss Gladstone had taken her by the hand and led her towards him, but before she could pronounce Maud's name, he exclaimed, "This is she who told me where I should find you-is this Maud?" and he had taken her hand before them all, had taken it in both his-had held it, had looked upon her-this rare prince from fairy land-this handsome youth, handsome and proud enough to have represented any royal line; and she was going to tell Deborah she was sure they would be friends-he looked at her so kindly, and there was something in his voice that she could hear when he spoke to Miss Gladstone; not so distinctly when he spoke to the others; something that persuaded her of a friendship that should be. 
               It was he who had occasioned the unusual flow of words at the table. Something his coming had to do with her sudden loss of appetite; for the listening, she could not eat-yet how little was there to hear! How little compared with what there might have been! She sat in her place and never opened her lips. But why did they not lead him to speak of his adventures? Why did not Miss Gladstone make him speak of that shipwreck? they kept on with the slow and tedious conversation, which, nevertheless, had so cheerful a sound to Maud, and when the dinner was over she went off again to school. 
               Debby joined her on her way. She came up behind Maud so noiselessly that Maud's surprise was real when she started as the little figure presented itself at her side. Oh, she was thinking of somebody else-not Deb. 
               "It was the young man," she said, anticipating Deborah's question, and then she took Deb's hand, and launched out into a description of their hero, such as shall not be written down here for any hard old heart, or skeptical young intellect to laugh at. 
               But you need not think that the mind of either maiden could be held within the limits of any earthly task that afternoon. The demure little Deb sat with her eyes on her book and learned the lesson appointed, but it was all a mechanical work, and a reckless trusting to memory, for her understanding had nothing to do with the committing of those tasks. 
               But Maud could learn nothing; after one or two efforts she gave up the attempt, and sat looking out of the window, or with her head bent on her hands, recalling the event of the day, and wondering how Miss Gladstone could go on so quietly with her labor, when her friend had, as it were, come out of the grave to see her. 
                
               Maud, to tell the truth, disgraced herself by her failures that afternoon, and Miss Gladstone divining the cause, said to her, detaining her after the last attempt at a recitation: 
               "You are not well, child. Go out for ten minutes and rest yourself in the open air. If you do not feel better then, go home." 
               "I had rather stay with you," said Maud. I cannot study . . . . I could not, but I'll try." 
               "Very well." 
               Now, let no one accuse Miss Gladstone of a weak yielding to her pupil here; it was the way she always dealt with indolent or distracted thoughts, and her "moral suasion," I venture to assert, had its full weight of influence with all who were susceptible of anything but the blows of flesh and sense. 
               "Very well," she said, and then she added, "we will walk when the school is over. Do your best now." 
               Maud went back to her seat and mastered every lesson of the day, and when the school stood up to sing that night, her voice was quite the gladdest, strongest, sweetest voice to be heard. The teacher listened, understood, and was content. She knew her charge. 
               "Now we will have our walk," said she, when Maud had helped her bring the room to order, according to her nightly custom. Maud had sent Debby home. 
               "He will want you, won't he," asked Maud, hastening to bring forward that objection, importunate to hear it negatived. 
               "Archibald Kensett? He will be well cared for. I left him with Mrs. Rossiter and Hope. He shall talk with us when we go back." 
               "When will he go away?" 
               "He is to remain with us." 
               The quick glancing of Maud's eyes towards the speaker, and the expression of her face did not escape Margaret's observation. 
                
               "I knew you would be glad," she said. "He is to live for the present in Mr. Rossiter's family. He is to study theology there." 
               "Is he?" So did Maud's face change on hearing this, that Miss Gladstone, who observed the change and felt it, said: 
               "Are you not glad now?" 
               "No." 
               "Why not? it gives me great pleasure." 
               "They will make him like themselves if he wants to stay and study with them. Like Mr. Rossiter or Mr. Stanton," exclaimed Maud. 
               "For me," said Miss Gladstone, mildly rebuking this outbreak by her gentler speaking, "I would like him to be as faithful a servant of his chosen Master, as dilligent in good works, as earnest in endeavors after personal holiness as either of these good men." 
               "Would you really like him to be like Mr. Stanton?" asked Maud, unfeignedly surprised. 
               "Yes, in faithfulness and ardor-yes," she repeated, taking a yet more deliberate survey of the question. "I would like him to resemble Mr. Stanton in these particulars." 
               "But not to be hard and severe, and to make people afraid of him, and set himself up." 
               "Truly no. But of that there is no danger." 
               "Mr. Stanton is so." 
               "Judge not, my child." With all the tenderness there was reproof in these words, and still more seriously Miss Gladstone made good this opportunity, and said, "Your conduct is not what it should be, Maud. Last week, when Mr. Stanton came down with Mr. Rossiter, to visit us in the school-room, I noticed that you were silent while we sang the hymn. I did not speak to you about it then, but ought this to be? Think if you should set yourself up in opposition to the judgment of all the people who hold Mr. Stanton in so great esteem." 
                
               "Oh, Miss Gladstone, if it were not for all this, for the sky, and the world, and you, and Debby, I would die!" burst from Maud Saltonstall, to Margaret Gladstone's utter amazement. 
               "Maud, Maud, what is this," said she. 
               There was no soothing the spirit that had forced its way out into this expression. 
               "I don't know what it is, Miss Gladstone. I'm getting to be dead I think," exclaimed Maud. "I tried to sing once for Hope Rossiter. I never tried but once. But I never tried for Mr. Stanton. I don't want him to be near me. He frights me. What does he want me to be; what does Mr. Rossiter want? What does everybody want but you and Deb." 
               "He wants you should be the best you can be, Maud," said Margaret soothingly. 
               "No; if they did I would be different. I!-they do not want me to love anything, anything I could. I cannot do anything. I am thinking all the time if it is right; and if Hope would do so. I know she is very wise, but if I have to be made like her I shall die first, Miss Gladstone. Am I growing like her? I think I am, sometimes. I thought I acted like her. I thought I was . . . . I used to love to run. Oh, where do you think Lady Jane is now? . . . I could do anything once I thought. But now what can I do? Oh, help me! It seems as if there was nothing but to sit down to a dull book, or talk under my breath when I want to shout. Do you think I will ever be like Hope? Would you love me if I should be?" 
               "Hush, Maud, hush!" said Miss Gladstone, but most tenderly, and even smilingly, she said it, though tears were in her eyes, "there is not the slightest probability that you will ever be what any one would call a learned woman. No one will ever think of asking you to determine difficult points in ethics or theology, or ask you for a translation of a vexed passage. Hope Rossiter is already a wonder and an honor to this place. She is worthy of all praise. But set your mind at rest, you will never be like her." 
               "Oh, are you angry?" 
               "Angry, Maud, my foolish little girl! No; but I do wonder that you will quarrel with everything about you. What is it that you want?" 
               Maud made no haste to answer, and Miss Gladstone took advantage of her hesitation to bring before her thoughts a picture of her daily life which uplifted it into the dignity of a grand arrangement, even to Maud's mind, so that, wondering, she said, when Miss Gladstone again waited for her to speak: 
               "If you see all this so beautiful and good, why do not I?" 
               "One thing Maud, do you trust in me?" 
               "Am I not here with you every day?" returned Maud. 
               "Then think whether, perhaps, you are really not a little hard of sight and hearing, dearest Maud. You must be more slow to speak, and swifter to hear; you must trust more. You must be more humble, Maud." 
               Miss Gladstone enumerated these necessities with a readiness that proved a thorough knowledge of her subject. Until now Maud had come to no expression like that recorded above. She had pondered these things in her heart many and many a time, but they had found no utterance; and they would have had no such utterance but for-what does the reader think? the arrival of Archibald Kensett. And if he had been another sort of person, another kind of character, no such expression would have been compelled. But-and it was as true of Debby Lynch as of Maud, and as true of Hope Rossiter as of either of them-his appearing had discovered the old things of their daily experience in a quite new light. "Hope was her father's child;" and as to Deb and Maud, they both were human too-only more so. 
               Debby Lynch going home from school alone, attributed the desertedness of which her heart was conscious, to that new arrival; and the young stranger did reign like an absolute monarch over all her thoughts during the remainder of that day. She did not halt at the door of her father's workshop, as was her custom going home. It would be nothing to stand and watch the flames of the forge, or the red hot iron, or the sparks her father's strong arm struck from it. She went on homeward, and wandered about abstractedly, and could think of nothing but Maud, and could do nothing to the purpose, until she opened her books, and beguiled her good mother with the notion that studious little Debby had a more than commonly difficult task for the morrow. But Deb was a sorry cheat that night; she was thinking of anything but lessons and the school. Hadn't she seen an angel? 
               So with Maud. Young Kensett's arrival had at least done for her so much as this, to make manifest what had been going on secretly in her mind. Anything so fresh, strong, cheery, untrammeled, as his spirit was, even under the restraints of that dinner at Mr. Rossiter's, she had never in her life seen. It had the effect to call out her own nature in opposition to the prevailing influence of life in the parsonage. Her own convictions seemed to receive their warrant even in his outward appearing. It needed but a sight of his face to convince her that she was not all wrong and sinful in her feeling; that there was a rapid and sunlit tide of life, as well as a cold, dark, sluggish one. She had a warrant for all that was in her heart the moment she beheld him; and instead of continuing the combat which Miss Gladstone's conformity to the laws of life, as enforced here, and not Miss Gladstone's actual teaching, had persuaded her was her duty, Maud dashed out into the open rebellion it has been our duty to record. If, from that moment, her eyes had never seen, her ears had never heard young Kensett, the effect had been produced and could not be undone. They among whom she lived might be all right, so far as they were concerned, but as for herself she was not all wrong. She could no longer believe herself alone in her notion and love of a free life, for before her eyes had passed one who was leading such a life; she needed no one to assure her of it. 
               She might have answered Miss Gladstone's last words, but looking down the road she saw Mr. Kensett walking in it towards the school-house. At the same moment Miss Gladstone also perceived him, and said: 
               "He is coming to meet us, we must go back." So they went back together. 
               Before he perceived them, Kensett's face had worn a grave, almost a gloomy expression. Yet he was not aware of gloom. He had talked with Mr. Rossiter and Hope of those things which it had concerned him to know; of the field he was about to enter; the duty, privilege, and occupation of it was made clear before him. He came away from the parsonage wondering at the minister's daughter, who, when her father was called from the conversation, went on and preached to him, as he would have done, of righteousness and judgments to come. Gliding in and out of the parlor, attending to her domestic cares and her kindly hospitalities, the lovely face of Grace Rossiter shone like a pleasant light-she cheered the heart of Kensett. He needed such cheering. Wonderful as Hope was in her devotion, and intelligence, important as the place occupied by Mr. Rossiter was, Archibald Kensett would never have been detained under that roof by either father or daughter. Grace, the wife and mother, might have soothed and mollified their influence, but left alone to them he would assuredly have escaped to fulfil his vow elsewhere, if anywhere. He did not suspect this, nor think now with any other feeling than wondering admiration of Mr. Rossiter and Hope. 
               But when he observed Miss Gladstone coming towards him, the shadows passed from his face, and as entirely from his heart; he did not hear the deep drawn breath that escaped him, nor know that he lifted his steeple-crowned hat and ran his fingers through the mass of hair beneath, as if to let the wind sweep away from him every token of the atmosphere by which he had been surrounded. 
               To Maud he but repeated the words he had spoken to her when he saw her at noon-but it was something to Maud that he should really remember her at all. She expected, wanted, nothing more. Miss Gladstone, however, did not allow her to fall back out of sight with that bare mention and observation. 
               "I have been telling my child," said she, "that we are all to live together. Shall we not be a happy family? All having one grand object in view, which we shall seek to realize, as we are able, under the divine guidance of our Lord." 
               "You also-so young too-have you a grand object in view?" asked Archibald, while he attentively surveyed Maud, with a glance she treasured up for future description to Deborah. 
               "I am going to help Miss Gladstone in the school some day," quietly answered she. 
               "And what then will you teach?" asked Kensett. 
               "I shall have all the singing, for one thing," said Maud, promptly replying. This much at least was decided in her mind. 
               "And so you love to sing?" asked Kensett, attracted by the girl's answers, but more by her way of giving them-aware also that Miss Gladstone would have them talk together. But as he asked that question he looked at Margaret-something that had escaped his mind flashed over it like lightning-the singer and her fame came up before his vision: he knew, hearing the child speak thus, why Maud was dear to her; still better he knew how it should happen that to the girl, Margaret Gladstone must needs fill a place no other being might. 
               But all this was so strange. London! and its star! . . . a wilderness, and life of daily toil. It was almost past belief. 
                
               Maud looked at Kensett, and she did not answer his last question-but instead broke into a low, merry laugh; brief, but joyous was its sound-no pretence there. 
               "I love it too," he said, conceiving that she had given him an answer. 
               "How do you love it?" asked Maud, with sudden seriousness, that had a deeper joy in it than was but now expressed in her laughter. 
               "How?" he repeated-he did not understand her. He no more understood than Mr. Stanton would have done. But it was to be observed that Maud here took the trouble to explain herself, as she never would have done for Mr. Stanton. She would have despaired of him-but she was all hope here. This fact occurred to her own mind, and she said: 
               "Could you tell that I loved it without asking? I could have told it of you. I knew you loved it. But I never believed that Mr. Stanton cared." 
               "Mr. Stanton sings then?" asked Kensett, interested, in spite of himself, or, more truly, because of himself?-and, for another reason, that Miss Gladstone was beside him, content to be a listener. 
               "Mr. Stanton taught the school," she informed him. 
               "He taught you among the rest, I suppose." 
               "No, indeed-" and again she laughed, but there seemed a deal of scorn in the sound. 
               "Not when you were so fond of it?" he asked, for he had heard the name of Mr. Stanton already from the lips of Hope and her father; this new mention, in a tone so different therefore, could but interest him. 
               "He only knew the notes. You cannot bite music out of a tuning fork." 
               A reproof was on Miss Gladstone's tongue, but she restrained it-better let the young heart express itself, else how should the thoughts and feelings that were lurking in its recesses be known? 
                
               "But still he may have loved to sing," said Kensett, repressing the smile that rose to his lip-for he saw and knew what was passing in Miss Gladstone's thought. 
               "I had rather sit in the stocks for a week than say I believed it. If he loved to sing he would know how." 
               "What nonsense," now broke from Miss Gladstone-but the word did not embarrass Maud-she had gone beyond that. Margaret observed this, but proceeded. "There are a thousand things that you will need to learn, which it is to be hoped you will also love in good time, Maud. Mr. Stanton is considered a good singer, and his exertions in behalf of the school are worthy of great praise." 
               "Hope thinks so too. She always came to the class as long as he taught it, to sing with us-with the school I mean. They know nothing about it." 
               "It might be proved perhaps that you know still less, dear Maud." 
               "I might learn though, if there were a teacher," said Maud, with a most unlooked-for humility. "I might learn." 
               "All in good time," said Miss Gladstone, cheerily. "It is something to wish for a teacher," and she turned from Maud to speak with Kensett of things that had a deeper sound but perhaps were not of deeper importance. 
             
             
                
               XXXII. LIFE. 
               HOPE ROSSITER did not, according to her custom, lose the sunset of this day. She was out in the garden with Mr. Kensett and Maud, watching the purple and golden clouds that swept up from the horizon. Of earth they were, those clouds, and their garments of splendor betrayed the truth as they moved up and across the sky, which, serene and pure in its depth of steadfastness, rose in the infinite arch beyond them. 
               Maud was watching, and even assisting the unfolding of a stem of night-blooming flowers. 
               "In the morning there will be nothing left of them-look, Hope," she said, half sadly, as she held the stem towards her. 
               Hope took it for a moment, glanced at the tiny white and purple flowers, ascertained that they were scentless, and gave them back. 
               "They are not strong enough for you," said Maud, receiving them, and betraying something of resentment as she did so. 
               "And for that will you reproach me?" asked Hope, with unusual mildness; "you who set so high a value on a long life." 
               "I am sorry for the poor thing-they don't know what the world is by daylight," said Maud, quite evidently ashamed of the spirit manifested by her last words. 
                
               "They are as happy as they can be while they live," said Kensett, quietly possessing himself of the flowers Maud held loosely in her hand. 
               "Are you sure of that?" asked Maud. 
               "And they live out the ordinary length of their nature. I dare say you will find some of them living on till noon to-morrow. But they will be superannuated. They live amongst the stars, and silence, and dew. Is not that a life of beauty?" 
               "But so short," repeated Maud. 
               "Not if it is as long as they can keep fair and sweet. Do you know what the poet says? 
                      
                        'It is not growing like a tree 
                        In bulk, doth make man better be; 
                        Or standing like an oak three hundred year, 
                        To fall a log at last, dry, bald, and sear. 
                        A lily of a day 
                        Is fairer far in May, 
                        Although it fall and die that night- 
                        It was the plant and flower of light. 
                        In small proportions we just beauties see, 
                        And in short measure life may perfect be.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "A long and quiet life, though, is better than a short and swift one." 
               "I should have expected to hear that sentiment from the lips of Miss Rossiter sooner than from Miss Maud. Yet time has less to do with the results of life, I think, than almost anything." 
               Hope was all eagerness to listen. 
               Maud asked him, "Why?" 
               "Because," answered Kensett, "the quality of a life is determined by something besides its length." 
               "By what?" asked Maud, speaking again for Hope and for herself, though Hope needed now no explanation: this utterance of Kensett, novel sentiment as it was to issue from his lips, was not strange to Hope, but an expression of such thought as was habitual with her. 
                
               "By its intention," said Kensett. 
               "What you live for," explained Hope, well pleased with Kensett's answer, and pondering in her heart-that depth at whose parallel Mr. Rossiter kept his smouldering fire-in her heart, I say, on the voice of the new student, and the beautiful expression of his serious eyes. 
               "What you live for." He and she had mastered their own destiny, but as to that waif, Maud, was it likely she would ever live for anything? The question was not in her voice when she spoke these last words to Maud, but the doubt was there, almost the conviction, that it was not very likely. 
               It now happened that she and Kensett, between whom there was at least so much as the sympathy of a kindred pursuit, fell into a conversation which roused unusual interest in the mind of each. There was no point in the history of the "Western Churches" about which Hope could not throw some light: there was no question he could ask concerning the earlier struggles of the Pilgrims, and their present prosperity and strength, about which Hope could not speak. The theme had been familiar to her mind from infancy. Her spiritual life-breath was Puritanism, and in the speech to which she was strengthened by it, there was no little eloquence. She also, as well as Margaret Gladstone, was a prophet. Prophet how different! She did not linger in the past long, but made haste to turn his gaze toward the future, where all the nations glory, and the glory of the church was stored up. 
               It was a strange speech to issue from the lips of one so young; it did not fall effectless to the ground; not only Kensett, but Maud also, was surprised and caught by it. Not caught as though a trap had been laid by design to take them. But Kensett heard the words with admiration, and he was prepared to appreciate Hope Rossiter to the full extent of her capacities of nature and of cultivation. 
               As to Maud, when left to herself, in the hearing of Debby Lynch, she said-for the sake of going again over ground whose former survey had not satisfied her, and not for the sake of any illumination anticipated from her companion, for Maud needed none should point out to her the difference between Deb, and those former speakers- 
               "Deb, which is best, to live a long while, or a short while?" 
               "Long," answered Deborah, promptly. 
               "Why?" asked Maud, well pleased. 
               "Because," said Deb. A full stop followed. 
               "Yes, I think so too," laughed Maud. 
               "Because," continued Deborah, a little disconcerted by the laugh, and urged on by it to say her wisest, "because then you have a chance." 
               "Yes, so you have!" responded Maud, with decided conviction. 
               "Like Miss Gladstone," said Deb, as one waking up to the subject; for Miss Gladstone was one that could dawn and dawn, and break upon the children of her charge, yea, and on their parents also, and on all other persons, for years to come, ere they should fully apprehend that which was actually in their midst, a woman of great genius. 
               "She," continued Deborah, "has had a chance;" and she stopped to think about it. 
               "If she could live a hundred years it would be all the better for her. The same with you." 
               Maud's eyes flashed. "And you, and everybody, Deb," she said. "So much going on!" 
               "Yes," softly responded Deb, "everything." The vision may have been vague as the word, but her vision she had, and Maud had hers likewise-the mind of each was filled. 
               "If I should die to-day, Deb, what would you think of it?" asked Maud, when her vision had held her as long as it was able. 
               Deb was affectionate enough to let some tears fall at the bare suggestion, but Maud could not be put off with this demonstration. "What would you think of it?" she repeated. And still Deb gave no answer, but wept on. Those tears were sufficient in the end to change the current of their talk; but Maud's mind was still upon the subject, bent on its discussion. Everybody lived for something, and not she. But there was the school in prospect-a return home-improvements to be exhibited there-nothing for her to do but study; yet indeed a mighty deal of work in that way to be done before she could feel that she was anything but a child in anybody's sight. 
               Kensett, like the rest, made a distinction between his treatment of Hope and herself. It began to dawn on Maud's mind that there was such a thing as growth in life-a progress beginning with youth, and ending in old age, and she startled Deb by saying: 
               "I shall live till I am old. And when I am old, I shall not die soon, but live as long as I can see. Go on, and let me think about it, Deborah." Deborah obediently went on, and Maud thought about it; and so also did Deb, when she gave a few precious moments that afternoon to working on a bit of ornamental stuff she was preparing for her mother, concerning which Mrs. Rossiter was her instructor. 
               And on the same topic in other ways, the thoughts of Hope were working, and often she put down the pen with which she made the transcript of that book for Mr. Stanton; for between his image and herself, between her occupation and herself, an ethereal presence came, and something questioned her as she never before had been questioned, concerning her life and its prospects. 
             
             
                
               XXXIII. A KNIGHT OF THE CROSS. 
               ARCHIBALD KENSETT'S life was a new and distinct element in the household of Mr. Rossiter. 
               The freedom of act, utterance, and thought, to which he had been accustomed, had induced a style of being and of bearing in perfect contrast with the lives among whom he was henceforth to move. Frank, fearless, independent, it was impossible that he should not provoke the scruples, fears, and cavil, of men and women who walked the straight and narrow way, and eschewed temporizing, and expediency, as allurements of the adversary. But he was not long conscious of a repression or contraction of his spirits and nature, when he came within the bounds of the restricted, straightened life of Mr. Rossiter's family. He could perceive the good of that condition, and heartily embrace it. He knew how to modulate his life to a harmonious agreement with the lives of those around him. But an ascetic, or book-worm, or zealot, he would never prove. Such he was not by nature, and his nature was too strong to yield to force of example, to be controlled or re-moulded by it. 
               Cheerful light-heartedness, noble freedom, and integrity, marked his character. The steadfastness with which he applied himself to the study of Mr. Rossiter's books, and the quickness of perception with which he drew from them the good they could impart to him, his warm and ardent temperament ment, his eloquence of speech, and quickness and depth of thought, were so many points which specially commended him to the interest of different portions of the family. 
               Probably no person so well understood him as Miss Gladstone; there were none that loved him in her way. Coming freshly as herself from fatherland, sharing with her the terrors of the catastrophe which had cast them, stripped of all things, on the strange shore, arrested in his quest of adventure, and the career which bade fair to be one of enjoyment; eager, generous, enthusiastic, courageous, intellectual, warmhearted, he was to her like a fine poem of quick movement and copious illustration-something to be cherished in the heart, and to be loved on account of all that it must be to others as well as to herself. 
               Clearly, with her clear and steady vision, she perceived how his nature, instead of being chilled, warped, dwarfed to actual conformity with the new state of things in which he had been brought to participate, merely bent to the outward compulsion or restraint, springing up again when the pressure was removed, strong, and itself, like a young tree that knows and rejoices in its liberty of free and beautiful aspiration. 
               In the deep thoughtfulness that at times shadowed his face, she saw how firmly, and how powerfully, the resolution of the present was projecting itself into the future. His self-control was admirable; his resolution and his firmness were as marked features of his character as the suavity, kindness, considerateness, and patience, which contrasted so finely with the energy of his spirit. There was no Puritan blood in his veins. Of himself it was quite certain that he would never have sought to learn the doctrines, or make the friendship of the dissenting brethren. It is fair to admit that, left to himself, he would have lived and died in peaceful ignorance of any of those truths for whose sake these pilgrims were able and willing to forsake all things. He would have been suspected sooner of a disposition towards ease in the house of bondage: to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, rather than become a wanderer with the flock that was scattered in the wilderness. Left to himself! But, who is left unto himself? What are the events of life, but TRIALS that prove you? Still he was, as we say, a free and independent agent. And it was his own experience, and not the magnetic influence of Margaret Gladstone's example, that turned the current of his life; and truth for its own sake, not a religious life for her approval, was really what he sought. Let no one entertain a doubt of him. The glory of Kensett's youth was his integrity. 
                
               There were no servants employed at the parsonage. It was expected of those who enlarged the family, and increased its cares, that they would aid in its labors, and Maud and Kensett, each in their time, fell in with the expectation which never had an opportunity of becoming a requirement. Maud very easily and naturally joined in this rendering of household service, and her offers of aid, and actual labors, were never rejected. 
               The duties which she daily performed were not prescribed, were not even by a word suggested; but of herself she took to doing what she could do, and her share of the work became soon clearly defined, both to herself and others, as clearly as Hope's was. 
               It was pleasant to note the wisdom, and observe the kindliness with which Mrs. Rossiter managed the disposition of the domestic forces. Maud's stern mother would have smiled to hear the words of approbation her daughter won; she would have listened tearfully to the gentle instructions which Maud heard and obeyed with such high-spirited alacrity. Never, in any excess of maternal solicitude or pride, did Mrs. Rossiter take advantage of Maud's distaste for much study, and the pleasure she derived from serving this loving-hearted mother in Israel; never did she under any pretence take advantage of this disposition, for the purpose of securing further ease or leisure for her own daughter. 
               Kensett had, also, his share of practical service to render, as I said. He entirely relieved Mr. Rossiter of the light labors which had broken in upon the more laborious hours of the student; he also took upon himself the care of the garden, and, for the improvement of his fortunes-for he made no haste to acquaint his guardians with his whereabouts, the novelty of self-reliance had so fine a charm to him-it was his purpose to soon open a writing-school. 
               He had been at the parsonage a month or more, when coming from his room one morning at earlier hour than usual, he found Maud Saltonstall in the shed, performing a task that properly devolved on him. 
               His cheek reddened when he saw her; he stood on the door-step that led from the kitchen to the shed-he stood there while she gathered a basket of pine wood; the axe at her feet, and the fresh splinters scattered around, told him how she had been employed. 
               Now it had chanced on several different occasions-at times when he had regarded, the fact as most opportune-it had chanced that he had found some of his tasks performed for him, and though he had meant to inquire into the fact, it had again escaped him in the pressure of other thoughts and duties-these occasions were brought quite forcibly to mind now, as he stood on the kitchen steps looking at Maud Saltonstall. 
               The flush upon his face deepened, but he stood quite silently there with his arms folded on his breast, looking at her, as she stooped and gathered the wood. There he still stood when Maud lifted herself, and turned with the basket towards the house. 
               Maud ought not to have looked so confused as she did, just then, as if she had done a deed of whose righteousness she was uncertain. She had acted out the generous impulse of her kindly heart; rendered a slight assistance where she believed it would be welcome; why did she not advance towards Kensett with a laugh of pleasure, or vexation, at the discovery, according as it should take her by willing, or unwilling surprise? This would be the natural thing for her to do; it was not natural for her to blush, and become confused, at such a cause as this-it was an unnatural state of things that caused the trepidation. If Mr. Rossiter, or Hope, or Mr. Stanton, had suddenly appeared in sight, she would inevitably have run away, and hid herself, in the aggravation of her heart's commotion; but if Grace Rossiter, or Margaret Gladstone had risen up to view, no matter how suddenly, she would have subsided on that instant into perfect equanimity, the calmest composure. This statement explains the fact that it was a difficult thing for Maud to look Mr. Kensett fairly in the face, as he was quite determined she should do, when she came towards the door, and he stood waiting on the step. 
               It was a painful smile that came shyly out upon her face as she drew nearer; Kensett observed the smile, made more apparent by its painfulness, and he hastened to descend that step, breaking off so from his deliberate survey, to her infinite relief; with a bound he was at her side, and assisting her in carrying the basket. It is to be observed that in this simple act affairs arranged themselves very properly between them-he did not take her burden wholly from her-she did not with his assistance find occasion, as there certainly was opportunity, of wholly resigning it to him. 
               As they gained the kitchen steps he swung the burden with a sweep of his arm upon the landing, and then turned himself wholly towards her, and by his words, not by any gesture, prevented her from immediately following it. "I suppose," said he-and there was only playfulness, not sarcasm, neither severity, in his words-"I suppose, you have been working so hard over your lessons that you felt the need of bodily exercise." 
                
               "No," said Maud as usual, when rightly questioned, prompt and free in her confessions; "I had some time to myself, and I thought maybe you might be hurried with your studying. I'd as soon do it." 
               "I'd not as soon have you, though;" remarked Kensett, "how do you think I would have liked it, if I had found less of you by a hand or a foot when I came down? I would rather run the risk of disappointing the committee in my examination." 
               "I am not afraid," said Maud valiantly, a little exaggerating the tone in which she meant to speak-taking a rather undue advantage of the fact that she had now quite recovered from her confusion. 
               "That sounds well. I suppose you mean it," said Kensett. 
               "I am afraid of nothing," responded Maud, still more emphatically; anything like moderation of speech would not do, though it was before breakfast, even before sunrise, and she stood there alone with nothing but her own spirit to rely on. 
               "Of nothing?" questioned Kensett, surveying her young figure, giving far more credit to the truth of the assertion than she believed or hoped. 
               "Nothing in the world," she repeated. 
               "I have you, I am sure!" he exclaimed, however, with apparent security. "You are afraid of something; tell me what it is, or I must tell you." 
               Now Kensett said this at a venture; he had remarked, or fancied that there was occasion for remarking, that something was weighing, and not lightly, on the mind of Maud Saltonstall in the days past. She did not seem disposed to dispute the fact with him, but said, half-laughing, and he could well discern with what sincerity, "Of nothing but Mr. Stanton." 
               "Of him, then!" simply rejoined Kensett; and his words might be rendered into a mere expression betraying satisfaction tion at his own penetration-or into a statement of a theme preparatory to its thorough discussion. 
               "That is the truth," said she. 
               "But why?" pursued Kensett. 
               "I can't tell." 
               "That is folly, or worse, it is wrong. And besides, childish." 
               "I am always guilty of one of these three things, Mr. Kensett. Folly, or wrong, or childishness." 
               "Of all three this time, certainly," said he giving her the benefit of her own words. 
               "He does not like me." 
               "How know you that?" 
               "There are some things you need not be told." 
               "Well then-what of it-if he likes you not, why fear him? Make him like you. He's not a man of blood to take your life, nor of vengeance, to burn the house over your head." 
               "He thinks I am not good." 
               "Well, are you?" 
               "I'm not so bad as he thinks." 
               "Must I take your word for that? Beyond all question, Mr. Stanton is a very wise man." 
               "I do not like him!" 
               "Ah, that is it! I might have guessed at that!" Kensett would have laughed, but that Maud's gravity prevented him. 
               She kept resolutely to the point, and explained again, "I do not like him because I am afraid of him; and one reason that I fear him is, that he does not like me. Do you think I do not know what I talk about, Mr. Kensett? I had rather be thrown into the lion's den than be left to his tender mercies. You do not believe? One night after he had been preaching in Mr. Rossiter's church I walked home with him. Mr. Rossiter was sick, and I was the only one that went out. His hand felt as if it were made of hot iron when he rushed me along the street. Did Miss Gladstone ever tell you?" she stopped short, looking on him questioning. 
               "No," said Kensett in a rather louder tone than usual, as if thus to free himself from the conviction that he was doing what ought not to be done, in standing there at that time of the day, listening to a complaint against such a man as Mr. Stanton. No one who heard his voice but would acquit him of secrecy in that conference. Hope heard him in her room. 
               "He said such strange things to me, I wondered if he said the same to you, and how you took them, and if you felt it all, for you are to be a minister like him. . . . . I knew he could not sing, long before; but I never took a lesson of him after. It made me sick three days. Three days I lay on my bed up there, and all I could hear was Wrath, and the roaring of flames, and the Devil in pursuit. A terrible, monstrous, great black image, who had liberty to tempt all the children of the world, he said, and make them his own, if they would surrender to him." 
               "What did you say to it?" asked Kensett, whose curiosity, or interest, got the better of his prudence, or he would not have encouraged her to go on. 
               "I told him I did not know how to do any different, and then he said I should never know until I experienced saving grace; and I did not know what that meant, so he told me Hope Rossiter was a good pattern for a girl like me, only it was not probable I should ever be like her." 
               "Did he say that?" asked Kensett, well aware that he spoke too quickly, yet not making any great effort to restrain the question. 
               "He said there were few like her; but I could take her for an example." 
               "So you drew your own inference," began Kensett, with a smile; but the next instant, he recollected himself, and spoke in a different tone; did he fancy that the change escaped her notice, or that she neglected to construe it as she might? "You ought not to talk of this," he said, and he amended the reproof by saying "to me," and that again by adding "here," so that the remark on the whole was greatly more effective than he intended it to be. This he himself instantly perceived, and lost no time in the endeavor to change the relation into which he had thus brought himself with Mr. Stanton's opponent. 
               "You spoke of this to Miss Gladstone?" he hoped. 
               "She knew why I was ill," replied Maud. 
               "Has Mr. Stanton spoken to you since?" Kensett felt authorized to ask the question since the above explanation. 
               "He was here when I came down, after I got well. He said he was glad to see me again. I suppose that was kind, but I did not want to hear it from him. You wouldn't thank a man for asking how you felt after he had knocked you down. I didn't want he should say anything to me. I think he understood it. I suppose he's good. Miss Gladstone says he is, but it's not in her way. He lets me alone now. I felt grateful for that, but I suppose it was foolish, for she probably told him she could take care of me herself-I think it would be like her. Don't you? But I have tried to do as Hope does, since. I don't think I succeed very well. Do you suppose he believes all those terrible things, he said? What made him try to frighten me about the fiery pit, and the adversary, like a roaring lion, Mr. Kensett?" 
               "Call me Archibald, as Mrs. Rossiter and Miss Gladstone do. My sisters called me Archie. . . I should like to know what you thought of, those days while you were ill." 
               He had so caught her attention by these words, especially those kindly ones, which brought them into a nearer relation than had occurred to her as possible before, that Maud forgot the question she had asked; a moment she delayed for the repeating to herself of that familiar name by which his sisters had known Kensett, and then she said: 
                
               "I do not know. I tried to forget, and I did forget. But I know what happened on the last day." 
               "May I know, too, Maud?" She remarked this mention of her name, he made, and said with willing readiness, 
               "Miss Gladstone fixed my pillows, so I could see from the window, and when she went away, said she,' Lie here and look out, and see how beautiful it is all this while that you are shut up in this little chamber; do not stir until the sun is high enough to shine all across those fields and cover the wood; when it does that, then do what your heart bids you.' . . . I did as she told me." 
               "Did not stir till the sun was high." 
               "True." 
               "But then? 
               "I got up and stood by the window," said Maud, after a brief and thoughtful silence. "I listened to everything, and looked at everything. I forgot what Mr. Stanton said. I try now never to think of it." 
               "That may not be wisest. Perhaps it would be better for you, did you think of it often." 
               "Never for me; or I should never be happy again. God did not mean me to live in a fright." 
               "True, he is your Father, that you may be his child. But if he is your Father, you must honor him." 
               "I understand you," said Maud, "but I do not want to understand Mr. Stanton." 
               "If you did I think you would speak more kindly of him. But, I must be about my business. If I stand here talking I shall lose all the time you made for me this morning, my good Maud." 
               He would certainly have had no hesitation at the conclusion of this conversation in calling her his "good Maud," even in the hearing of Miss Gladstone. But if you ask whether he would have done so before Hope Rossiter, time must be taken to reflect on that. 
                
               Hope Rossiter heard him however. 
               She came into the kitchen as Kensett started on his way through the garden towards the corn field and the barn, and Kensett neither heard her coming nor was suspicious of her approach as he went his way. 
               Hope stood in the doorway, and her eyes followed the youth while she said, not looking at Maud, 
               "You are early to-day;" and then she stood aside, as if aware that Maud would pass into the house. Understanding the movement, Maud did enter, and she said, as she went in: 
               "I wake earlier here than I used to. I thought I might as well be up at work." 
               "In the garden?" said Hope who knew quite well to the contrary-from her window during the last half hour she would have seen whoever went into that small enclosure which they called the garden. It had come to be her habit to look out in the early morning. She usually saw Kensett when he went forth to his work. 
               "I've not been out there yet, but I will go and bring in some flowers for your mother," said Maud, as if apprehending some further questioning of which however there was really no probability; Hope Rossiter's good breeding was a sufficient surety. And Maud went away into the garden, leaving Hope in the doorway thinking more seriously than she herself suspected-how should she believe such a thinking possible of that self?-thinking of those last words Mr. Kensett so distinctly spoke, and of the joyous expressions of Maud's face, and of the posture in which she had found Maud Saltonstall when she came down. 
               Hope's idleness and reverie that morning were, for their rarity, worth observation. 
               She was not under an atmospheric influence. Rain and sunshine, calm and storm, had little to do with the operations of her mental life. It might be a dismal fog that hid the horizon, or the Indian summer haze: she was no almanac to know if yesterday were fine or foul; no prophet to look upon the evening sky, and say to-morrow will be fair! 
               As she stood now on the door-step, indulging in her reverie, that reverie was a characteristic one. It is surprising, the invariableness with which people take themselves into their thoughts and deeds. The heathen must still worship-so they cut down a tree and bake their bread with half of it. "Aha! I am warm!" and with the remainder fashion their little god: something, anything, before which they can kneel and pray. The prayer being the necessity. 
               Hope Rossiter upon the door-step must needs dream. Well, never a Hottentot, nor Icelander, nor Arab of the desert, but lives, to his own thinking, in the Eden of the world. 
               Still, for a moment as she thought, though she did not surrender herself to the odiousness of a comparison between her being, and her destiny with that of Maud-she did catch a momentary flash of the great sun that shone perpetually on the light-hearted girl, and felt her own coldness, and the attractiveness of . . . of what . . .? it was gone, and she had not perceived; not so as to understand it. 
               She might as well go in then from the door-step. The sun rises but once in the same morning. Her head ached, and she had work to do; besides, there was Mr. Kensett coming. But why should the last mentioned fact serve as her hastener? For so it did. When she saw him, afar off, her revery ended, and her idleness had its rebuke. She drove herself out of the temple as though she were verily a wicked intrusion there-but Maud-where was Maud? She might stay if she would, and minister at the altar. When Hope went in it made no difference to her where Maud was. But still-it was only her headache, you perceive, that would prevent her study that morning-if it should be prevented. 
             
             
                
               XXXIV. MR. STANTON'S SPHERE. 
               MR. STANTON was in the habit of saying, to himself and others, that the world was his study, and by the world he meant a region of county perhaps ten miles in extent, with which he was familiar. 
               This was a habit that grew upon him, as the sphere of his duties became more and more evident to his mind. The people made a more urgent demand upon him than his books; and it was his business to answer their demand. He had evoked the necessity they felt of his ministrations, and he must needs respond to it. So it was becoming, as time went on, more and more true of him that "the world," that little circle described, was his study. This was quite right, for it was necessary; and he had discovered for himself the necessity; so there was no distressful sense of compulsory resignation of a great good for a lesser one, in his case. Although it is quite true that he sometimes, intentionally or not, left the impression on Hope Rossiter's mind that the claims of the people did come in between him and the course that would have been his choice. And she honored him accordingly; and I know not what self-sacrifice such an example would not have impelled her to offer, had not her fortune, that is, her own inclination, shut her away from everything that offered opportunity of self-forgetfulness for the good of others. No one even thought of accusing Hope Rossiter in any way or shape of short coming in performance of her duties. She was a profound student, and lofty were the thoughts with which she was, for the most part, occupied-but, that may have been the very mischief of her education-a fish can as readily live out of water as a "human" heart above a certain latitude of social temperature. But an isolated heart, however feeble its pulsation, stands a better chance of salvation from ruin, than an isolated intellect. An isolated heart like that of the "lime-kiln man," is a proclamation of bankruptcy indeed-but, the bankruptcy could never have happened but for a sometime possession of riches. And who can tell what decision the court supreme may render? as witness Job's cattle and his daughters! 
               But, though Mr. Stanton called the world his study, he had his own little closet of a room-no inapt illustration of the figurative study-where he kept his books and papers, and a good many of his thoughts, some of which never yet had gone out from the space marked by the four bare walls. There, in that closet, he spent such seclusion as was his. Among the thoughts which found a shrine in that room, was Hope Rossiter. He is there with her this morning, even while she stands in the kitchen doorway with Maud Saltonstall he has her by his side. And be it observed, she is the student here, also, as quiet and as dignified as he had always seen her-his imagination was as rigid as his faith, and never took a flight; he could not imagine her standing, as she stood, in very truth, upon the kitchen doorstep, lost in meditation. 
               This is his best and most secure hour of retirement. It would be hard for him to recall the time when he had delayed his rising beyond that of the sun; and on this morning he has a duty before him that does not absorb the scant freshness that has fallen on his heart over night. He has a new analysis from Hope, and by its side, a sermon of her father's, which she has copied for him. It is no disrespect to Mr. Rossiter, that he allows the discourse to lie at rest; it is such a tribute as he can but render when he glances with attention over the other closely written sheet, and possesses himself of its contents; for Hope's intellect has to do with the analysis, and he values, more than all, the brief comment or criticism she has written with another pen, as it would seem, at the bottom of the last page. It was a bare thought that lay there, stiff, quaint, concise, but it was hers. It was with almost a smile that Mr. Stanton read it; he took it with him out to his day labor. It may not have been gently human enough to have served him as a guardian angel-for thoughts are guardian angels-angels, bad or good, that guard the evil or the holy that is in us; but it was her thought, and Hope had all the influence with him that any woman could have. 
               He even loved her, but it was in his own way. No passion was in the affection; it had thorough respect for its basis. God help the man or woman who cannot say as much as this in regard to his or her love! he respected Hope as far as he understood her; but he was not profoundly skillful in determining human character, it must be here admitted. Had he understood her better, he would have esteemed her in the same proportion. 
               For himself, he was a just man. I mean, of course, comparatively, relatively, not absolutely so-it is surprising to consider how few persons are absolutely just-but he had his own notion of good deeds, and was strict in their performance. Mr. Rossiter was a thousand times more lenient, more forgiving, than he, but the most desperate strait alone would lead one to invoke the tender mercies of Mr. Rossiter. 
               Jerome Stanton had, in his labors in Maud's behalf, verily thought he did God service in seeking to frighten an ignorant child out of her rebellion towards Him, when, in fact, success in his endeavor would have been merely a production of the evil which it should afterwards be his happy privilege to remove and destroy. He was a physician of souls, and this was his method of treatment: an accredited physician-no quack. If he did not clearly understand his science, think how few do, after all the experiments of eighteen hundred years, know anything at all. He found her not far from the kingdom of heaven-he would have driven her away into a hopeless exile, and then have himself moved heaven to send its messengers of pardon. Miss Gladstone's method was a different one-within the arms of her tenderness she soothed the terrified child, and bade her, in effect it was so, seek again her father's house, which she had turned her back upon in flight-knowing well, the wise and holy woman, that no self-righteousness would find a lurking place within the soul that was awake to behold, and receive even so little of the beauty of holiness-the true glory of God-as Maud Saltonstall. 
               It was just in him to abate not one jot in deliverance of the message he had received, but it had been a blessed thing for him if he had better understood the message. 
               Whenever he thought of Maud, it was invariably to evoke her contrast-Hope. And so it had come to pass that another had been admitted into that small circle of his inmost thoughts. Kensett's studies, and professed aim in life, forbade a suspicion of his unfitness, but to Mr. Stanton's mind there was not so wide a difference between Kensett's advancement and growth in spiritual life, and that of Maud Saltonstall, as there might have been. It was Jerome Stanton's duty to regard these matters in the most favorable light. It was his duty to consider the advantages that Mr. Kensett would derive, even as he had done, as he was ever free to acknowledge, from a residence under Mr. Rossiter's roof. And as it was his duty to do thus, thus he did. But if he looked at Kensett as his brother, it was as the heir might do upon the house's youngest son. 
               Mr. Stanton went over this ground on this morning, as he had frequently done before; while his eyes were on Hope's analysis, he thought these thoughts. Hope, verily had wrought for him incalulable good; she was continually aiding ing him. What should he do without her? It was her mission to do good, but whether he would have gone on with his meditation, progressively, and ended with a rejoicing that she was in the world because of the great good she could do there in general, or whether he would not have come back to "first principles," to a consideration of his own personal affairs, and other indissoluble associations, cannot be told, for he was summoned from his retirement by a call from one of his parishioners, who came to discuss some congregational matter of importance, as he went forth to his farm, or his merchandize. It is to be remarked, however, that Mr. Stanton took the analysis with him, as he went from his room, but the sermon was left lying on the table. He took the analysis-did he not take Hope also? It may be-but no-if Hope went with him, it was not that he took her. Still, she may have borne company by an irresistible, imperious necessity. Was it so inevitable then, that she should go with him? Whether he knew it or not, he did regard the fact in this very light. He did no more doubt the final issue of events that concerned him than he doubted himself. He would have compassed whatever doubt or fear should presume to trouble him; would have dealt out destruction to it with the hand that never faltered in its labor, the spirit that never surrendered to opponent. 
             
             
                
               XXXV. "WHAT'S IN A NAME?" 
               THAT same morning Maud said to Debby Lynch, to that child's inexpressible astonishment, so sudden was the outbreak in the midst of their quiet walk towards that unpretending school-house, to which they daily bent their steps: 
               "Oh, Deb, I used to say that I would like to live forever, but I think if I could happen to drop down dead here, right here under this tree, so that you would have to run back with me and my books, to Mr. Rossiter's, and I know nothing more about it, I should be willing-very willing." 
               Maud's eyes had an intense look as she spoke thus; they were struggling against the tears that were threatening to overflow them; that is the true explanation of their expression, but Debby mistook it for a stern and angry look. 
               With a desperate effort at consolation she looked at Maud, and her words burst forth with the rapidity of an inspiration; but it was merely the hurry of excitement-and that was allowed its way because so she was kept from crying. 
               "After all the beautiful things you said the other day about this very oak, under this very tree!" This reproach, when uttered, had a far greater effect upon the speaker than the hearer. Deb was consternated by her own words-she tried to cover them-"You said it looked like a human being to you, with its great arms thrown about so strong." 
               "I said," Maud observed,-in the beautiful remembrance of the words, forgetting the present occasion of their recall,- "I said this great tree was once laid up in swaddling clothes,-and that it was laid away in the grave in order that it might have a resurrection. It died that it might live. I said that idle wishes are like idle weeds; but that a great intention is like an acorn; it will grow into something that can be seen, like this oak. But I did not say it. I only told you what Mr. Kensett said to me; Archibald I mean; he asked me to call him so, and I'm sure I will; Archie is what they call him at home. Did you ever hear a name like that before, Debby Lynch?" 
               Maud's mere suggestion that she had not, was equal to a conviction in Deb's mind to that effect. 
               She had never heard such a name; no, truly. "Never," she said thoughtfully. But if Maud remembered these words he said so well, why wouldn't she take them to heart? Oh, they had given a world of comfort to Deb, the mere thinking of them. 
               But slow of faith was Maud Saltonstall; slow to lay consolations to her soul that day-though the consolation issued from the lips of Kensett, and was endorsed by Deborah. 
               "Debby," said she, "it might do for a man, and one like Mr. Kensett-I mean Archibald"-her lip straightened, she looked resolute, making this correction; "for one like him to talk about dying and being buried, and the glorious resurrection; it all sounded true when he said it, and every body would believe it, but-don't think me very wicked, though I am, Deb-I am sure if I died and was buried, there are some people who wouldn't think I was fit ever to have a resurrection! But I am! I am!" 
               "As fit as anybody-yes, you are!" cried Deb, whose honest heart was clear upon this point; and she never stopped to take a doctrinal view of the subject, though that neglect did not arise from incapacity. She had been brought up among the strictest of her sect, and could have answered every question in the catechism. 
               "But I never shall have the resurrection," said Maud, gloomily. Very blank looked Deb's small face at this; but she kept silent; and, when Maud began to speak again, the painful look vanished from the listener's countenance-she understood now what Maud meant. 
               "I never shall have it here," Maud repeated. "I think I'll not live so very long, Debby, and then I may have a resurrection, but it will be of a different sort from what Mr.- from what Archie Kensett meant. What he meant was about our life in this world, that we never can do what is great and good until we die to ourselves, as that poor little acorn did, that it might live for everybody, everything." 
               "You'll outlive me," said Deb, vehemently-for she was in a violent excitement by this time, as if she had been suddenly brought to the verge of a desert, and no help for her but to walk it alone; for such would this world be to her, were Maud Saltonstall to die-"You'll outlive me by a good hundred years." 
               "No," said Maud, indulging in the luxury of her mood, and bent apparently on getting out of it all the misery that could be gotten; "your mother says that when she was of your age she was as small as you, Deb,-and now she weighs full two hundred;" and this seemed to settle the question of Deborah's probable duration; at least they broke away from that argument, and Deborah said, with real concern, and with a voice so tremulous that it made Maud Saltonstall's own heart flutter: 
               "What ails you, Maud, to-day?" 
               "Nothing," answered Maud, gloomily." 
               "You're all out, though; you're all wrong." 
               "But why am I all wrong?" asked Maud, with an unnatural asperity; "why do you say it, and every body? what do you know about it? How can you expect to know?" 
                
               Debby Lynch did not laugh at this high tone; she trembled. . . Was it Maud that spoke in this way, and looked at her so angrily? Maud saw that she trembled; and what did she but sit down there on the grass under the oak, and sob aloud. 
               But this storm was a brief one; it passed as quickly as it came. While Deborah stood watching her, very sorrowful, Maud got up and stood silent for a moment, not looking at Deb, or the tree, or earth, sky, or any other thing near or visible, that her companion could discover, but as though she gazed upon a vision; then she went forward smoothing her hair under her bonnet, drying her eyes and composing her face, until they came to the school. But not a word more passed between them on the way. 
               At noon, as they walked homeward together, Maud laughed and chatted with the girls that went before them; in a way she rarely did; but she said privately to Deborah, before they parted: 
               "Debby Lynch, I am going to be wise and good now. You'll have to study hard, if you keep up with me." 
               But she seemed not to hear what Debby said in answer. It was too good an answer to be lost, and therefore I record it; for whether Maud heard it or not, the sound fell on her heart like balm-an assurance of healing lay upon the wound, that hid it until she was well again. 
               It was merely, "I know it." 
             
             
                
               XXXVI. FRIENDSHIP. 
               IT was a notable fact, that Hope Rossiter spent that whole day, not in her study, but with her mother; occupied in various household matters. And that once, while receiving her mother's direction in regard to a mission down the street, she took the long-neglected old cat in her arms, and stroked its back, and held its face close to her own, as she used to do when a child. 
               Now, whether this escape from her study may be accounted for by the fact that she had just completed a very difficult and absorbing task, even the analysis which we have seen in Jerome Stanton's hands, and, satisfied, as well as exhausted by the work, sought a recreation in a diversity of occupations-for Hope was never actually idle-or whether her thoughts had been distracted by any cause which would render a day among her books a lost day, by such a cause as a moment on the door-step in the morning, who shall decide? the reader. If the last supposition be the true one, it by no means follows that Hope made to herself such an admission, or that she was suspicious of the fact. 
               It may be worth while to mention here, that Hope had that same morning found occasion to administer a rebuke to Maud. Maud stood in the entry with her school books in her hand. Hope was saying something to her about one of her lessons, when Kensett passed the house. And Maud called after him-for he was going her way; and the better to secure his attention, she called him, as he had bidden, by his own name. But he did not hear her, or was too wise to hear, and Maud, a moment after, went out of the house with Hope's rebuke for company, until she was met by Debby Lynch. We know the rest of it. 
               But Maud's tears would not have fallen alone for this cause. It was nothing beyond endurance surely that Hope should reprove her for an impropriety. If she had not been joined by Deborah Lynch that day, she would not have wept. That appears to be the fact. And why? 
               Natural friendship allows no sense of superiority on the part of either of us, if we are really friends. But absolute friendship may admit, very readily, of a knowledge on my part, on your part, of the distinction of characteristics. Else our relation is a mere blind instinct, or impulse, or a something that is quite different from knowledge, on which basis alone friendships embrace. 
               How much the base metal, that is stamped with the image of the true, is really worth, is generally made known. Instinct, which is not intuition, impulse, interest, take fine sounding names to themselves, Christian names, indeed, but they have never been baptized with the Spirit: the most of such people as know what virtue means, will acknowledge to at least faith in an ideal of friendship, that bears very little resemblance to that love which they have known, or are capable of proving experimentally. 
               It was a very good and true friendship that existed between Maud Saltonstall and Debby Lynch; but the instant that Maud saw little Deb this morning, her heart ached, she felt alone, insufficient, disconsolate, and, as the reader knows, she complained a little before the storm-break. 
               Deborah was a gentle and dear companion. Deborah could listen well, and, on occasion, she could speak to the purpose. Deborah delighted in everything that was beautiful ful, and she rarely failed to behold, when Maud bade her see something to admire and love in books, or in nature, or in Miss Gladstone. Deb was as true as the day: Maud always found her when she wanted her. This was the amount of it. Had they been equal friends, had Deb been to Maud what Maud was to Deb, then Maud Saltonstall had felt uplifted, encouraged, joyous, instead of depressed and desponding, when now they met. She wanted some one at this juncture, to command her into silence; instead, she found only little Debby, and among her friends, Debby ranked the first. As it proved, however, she did not so much need as want. She might have mistaken her own strength for the gift of another, had she not been compelled to make her own suggestions to her soul, her own resolutions to her will. 
               Hope had rebuked Maud-she found occasions for so doing oftener then she could use them-and the restraint she felt compelled to put upon herself, was far from agreeable to the pride of her spirit. That pride had never so revealed itself as since Maud came within her sphere of daily life; indeed, so little did she know of her own nature, that the revelations now being made to her seemed not revelations, but creations occasioned by external and evil influences working on her soul. It was not awakening jealousy that disturbed her when she observed Kensett engaged in conversation with Maud-who could have convinced her of it? It was distress that he should be troubled, in the midst of his grave thoughts and serious contemplations, by anything so trifling as that child. It was not jealousy that made her curious to know what subject could have so strong a mutual interest to them, that it could hold them together; it was merely the interest of a friend who was concerned, lest he should in any way swerve from the high path, and the strict service he had chosen. 
               It was not jealousy-Hope never could have charged herself with that sin; but if Maud Saltonstall had lain dead before fore her, the tears Hope would have shed would not have been all sorrow. 
               Maud was actually more at home in the parsonage than she, the daughter of the house. Though its silence was never dull, its routine never tiresome to her, as it was to Maud, she never moved in the midst of cares and duties with the freedom and the grace of Maud. She never went into her father's study with Maud's confidence; she never entered into household labors with the ease that Maud manifested in bearing her part of the burdens. Yet it was a straightened place to Maud; and she only lived the free life that she did, there, because it was not possible that she should, under any circumstances, live a fettered one. 
             
             
                
               XXXVII. LIGHT AND SHADOW. 
               LET nature alone for a healer. Art may busy itself with hedge-rows, but let the flowers open, and the trees expand, as God instructs them. 
               A sentiment of real kindliness, which had not been hitherto distinctly evoked, from this day came into active exercise among a class of souls. Simple was the expression it found-neither elaborating its processes, nor concealing its causes; pure and good its source lay in the heart of youth. Life at the parsonage became pleasant, because of the mutual understanding between Kensett and Maud Saltonstall. 
               But Maud was as a child to Kensett; and Hope Rossiter was a companion. As a companion in his studies he must necessarily regard her, even as Mr. Stanton had done before him. She was to him, even as to others, a wonder; and her youth and expanding beauty did not lessen the wonderment which her qualities inspired. It would have been most strange if she, without a solitary conscious effort, had not powerfully influenced him. He had not only never met, he had never imagined a character like her's. 
               He was not the person to sound and measure it. She did not so much employ him in reflections on herself, as lead him on in his career to greater diligence and steadfastness. He contrasted his acquirements with her's, and remembering all his various opportunities, blushed in his heart as he acknowledged edged her superiority. So, after a fashion, he made Hope Rossiter, in her diligence, in her steadfast, serious earnestness of purpose, his model. She held him, without an effort, or even an understanding of the fact, to his duties, so that he could not contemplate with any satisfaction, even any hope for himself, an escape from them. It was the same with him that it was with Maud. 
               There was more equality between him and Miss Gladstone, than between him and Miss Rossiter. Miss Gladstone's years set him at rest. Hope's youth occasioned unrest. Her daily life was like a goad to him, yet nothing was more tranquil-unequalled seemed the calmness of her nature. It was Maud that fluttered, that swayed; that swayed like a flower in the wind-that fluttered like a bird through her duties. Hope was steady as a mountain; and there was a grandeur in her coldness that prevailed with him, while the warmth of Maud fell on him, unheeded as the sun. Unheeded as the sun! But even granite sparkles in that light, billows glow, earth buds, the wilderness doth blossom as the rose. And what was Archibald Kensett that Maud Saltonstall should continually shine through that dull parsonage, and he at length not know the life? 
               But not soon did he know it. If he assisted Maud in her lessons, or her labors, or soothed her when her tranquillity was gone, or remote, he did it as service to a child whose mother is beloved: but he watched Hope, as youth watches young womanhood. And if his ambition was thus fostered, and his spirits toned down to a better or more appropriate gravity-and a more anxious, high-wrought state of mind than was good for him became habitual-this that she did for him was not a tithe of what he did for her. The cheerful happy heartedness that left him found shelter in Hope's being. She needed that which he rejected; and the hospitality that he received was well rewarded. But they did not look upon each other as mutual benefactors. 
                
               But did Hope Rossiter grow joyous-as her dear mother's heart would prophecy-grow joyous in these brief times of recreation? 
               It might have been that she was actually joyous the first, or second, or a third time, when they were thus met. But then Hope began to think-to wonder, to wonder at every event and thought that concerned her. What was doing? what was being done? Had her books lost their charm? What was it then that had the power to break their influence? Envy, jealousy, contempt: hard names! Love! that is sweeter, But what is it that must happen if you build upon the sand? 
               When Miss Gladstone talked with Mr. Stanton, Hope was eager that he should acquit himself fairly. She had no fear that he would fail to do so. She took delight in all his acquirements, in all his abilities. She seemed even to feel a certain pride in them. She liked him to display himself before the lady who could appreciate him. But when Margaret talked with Kensett, why was Hope so ill at rest? Had she any fears for him? Was his skill in conversation a matter of concernment to her? Was it likely that he would be worsted in his argument? Why, they never argued. 
               And then with Maud; if Kensett talked with Maud, it was, or seemed to Hope, still more deeply a matter with which she had to do. Why, still? If it was Mr. Stanton that attempted some conversation with the child, Hope did not consider that his time was wasted. If Maud looked up and smiled at him, or laughed out suddenly, it did not pain or trouble her. She could go on with her work, whatever it might be, as tranquilly as though a bird had flitted past her window, as though merely a leaf had fallen. But let Maud smile on Archibald Kensett, let her laugh with him, let her bring her book to him for counsel, and presently Hope Rossiter was asking of herself, what meant this terrible foreboding? this ache in her head? this spasm of the heart? this distraction of the thought? this hurry and confusion? this lurid light that projected with its shadows through creation, and changed the aspect of all things? 
               And whether Hope was like a valuable book, or a valuable friend to Kensett, he might not have been able yet to tell. 
               Kensett gave Hope Rossiter many things to think of, and it was remarkable that the perplexities which he was often so free to confess to her, speaking honestly as friend speaks with friend, did not-except sometimes in after thought-did not, though in confession he implied, and sometimes more than implied, a desire of assistance from her, did not inspire her with a feeling of, least of all any exultation in, any fancied superiority. 
               She never fairly set to work to contrast his acquirements or abilities with those of the Rev. Jerome Stanton; there was no similarity in the influence or the impression of the student and the divine. The attempt to compare them would have brought her to herself, as the alarm, sounding at night, startles the slumbering soldier. 
               When she and Maud and Archibald sometimes were together, a different conversation passed between them than ever could have been conducted had Mr. Stanton stood in Mr. Kensett's place, or even had he made a quartett of the trio. 
               The mere presence of Kensett seemed to change the mutual relations of Hope and Maud. Whatever they chanced at these moments to speak of, that absorbed them; Hope was not a book worm, nor yet a chrysalis on such occasions; she was something fairer, finer; a handsome young girl, alive to human sentiments. Maud was better; she even seemed the spring to all the movement there was in those bright, cheerful, and at times, gay conversations, and essays of talk, those snatches of speech, which had the wondrous efficacy to brighten a whole day by their influence. 
               Maud was by no means a frequent guest in Hope's chamber ber, for two reasons, Hope was not lavish in her invitations; and the place had not sufficient attractions to tempt one into voluntary trespass. 
               But now, every day that room was changing in its aspects to the eyes of Hope Rossiter. 
               She might have been startled into a sincere contradiction had anybody told her so. If her mother had said what she felt-"My child, after all, your books will not be the death of you;" or if Maud Saltonstall had remarked anything of that kind, Hope, in alarm, would straightway have entombed herself amidst the volumes. But imperceptibly, influences, influences imperceptible to her, invited her out of her immured life, and cautiously, so cautiously that the fact was beyond her own observation, she emerged from her exclusiveness to hear, and see, and think, and feel, in new directions. 
               One morning she sat by her window, an open volume in her hands. Kensett and Maud were walking towards the garden gate, and across the field beyond came Margaret Gladstone. Hope watched her as she drew near; watched them all as they came together up the walk. She saw the smile of pleasure on the lady's somewhat wearied face. She heard the voice of Maud. A sudden wish possessed her; but she did not go down to join with them in their talk; she waited till she heard Maud coming up the stairs, and then rapidly crossing to the door, she asked, would Maud come in? 
               Going from the cheerful outdoor sunshine to this shadiness, exchanging bright talk for the staid gravity of Hope's presence, it had not been so great a wonder if an instant gloom had taken the place of those smiles, and that gladness, with which Maud's heart was full, as she ran up to her chamber. 
               But the smile did not vanish-she did not betray any constraint, or even curiosity-her mind was filled with other thoughts, when Hope said: 
                
               "Come, sit with me a little while, and I will read to you." 
               Let no one ask if Hope Rossiter was quite aware of what she did in this, or I shall be betrayed into a long explanation of the remote occasion of this invitation, and a rigid examination of each and every one of all its multiform features, to which no pen should be equal on a day so pure and so serene as this. 
               There was such kindness in the voice, and such a generous interest manifested in the invitation, as brought Maud swiftly across the room, and set her down near Hope Rossiter's table, with a face not one whit shadier than when it was bare in the sun. Surely, now, Hope had of her own penetration discovered the vigilant efforts Maud had made in all her studies since the day that she declared to Deb her purpose toward her books. 
               And there she sat, all obedience, ready to listen, ready to do anything Hope wished-glad to please Hope. Happy that Hope should have called her in to share her enjoyment. Prepared to wonder, or admire, or be instructed, whichever thing Hope wished. 
               So, while Hope Rossiter read, she sat in the little study, with her eyes upon the reader, but they were partly shaded by her hand. Alas! while she listened-and the reader's eyes were on her book, apparently absorbed in it-Maud's head began to droop, and next her face was hidden in her hand. Hope liked this better. Somehow, she could read more easily when quite sure that Maud's eyes were not upon her; for Maud had a way of looking at a body which meant no harmful scrutiny, nor was the exhibition of an undue interest in the business of another, but not all persons could meet with indifference a glance like that. Hope Rossiter may have felt an undefined uneasiness as to the motive that induced her to make the occasion of this reading, or for some other cause may have conceived the inspection objectionable tionable, and therefore was glad when the eyes of her audience were turned from her. 
               She herself was interested in the book, doubly interested because she had Maud for a listener. For of late she had begun to feel an actual need of human sympathy in her studies. It was only since Kensett came. And she read on, read on till it was nearly dark, in that small room of her's. And then she paused, and closed the volume, and turned herself slowly towards Maud. She would be glad now to meet the glance of Maud; she expected so to do. Expected to see her head uplift in the silence that followed the reading, but there, in its lowly posture, the bowed head remained. For the head was quite bowed since Hope last looked at Maud. Then Hope spoke to her. She called her by name, but there was no answer. Then she arose; she took the step that intervened between her chair and that of her listener. She stood as if hovering above the unconscious figure. She laid her hand upon Maud's shoulder. The hand trembled as she did so; there was not all the nerve she would have liked in the grasp, yet, to the startled Maud, it was like the grasp of a resistless fate. 
               With a sudden movement the sleeper lifted her head, pushed back in bewilderment the locks of hair which had fallen about her ears, and over her face, and her next act was to leap up with a laugh. 
               "Oh, Hope!" she said, blushing, yet quite confident in her appeal, Hope seemed so gracious and so kind to-day. 
               But the expression of Hope's surprised, displeased face, checked the impetuous words of merry apology that were about to escape Maud, and with a quite crest-fallen air she heard the question: 
               "Have you really been sleeping while I read those splendid passages aloud to you?" 
               "Yes," answered Maud bravely-it almost seemed now with defiance-bravely, in spite of her embarrassment, but not laughing, Hope looked so much annoyed. "I couldn't help it, I was so very tired." 
               "Tired!" ejaculated Hope. 
               There was that in this single word that made Maud both angry and sorrowful. 
               Angry, first with herself, she could do no better than confess and apologize. 
               "I have been so hard at work in school, Hope; ask Miss Gladstone. It is hard for me to learn, I am such a dunce. That is the great difference between you and me." 
               These words were not falsely spoken for the good effect they might have; there was plain honesty in them. Maud said them with a sigh, but the sigh was not so deep as her smile had been a moment back. Having spoken, her face brightened. She had said all that could be required, for the fact that needed the word, she felt regret, on Hope's account; and now, amends being made, she actually looked as if she would have thrown her arms around Hope's neck. If Hope perceived this feeling, it was with a very certain purpose of preventing such embrace. Of their own accord, then, Maud's arms dropped, and she did not make a further demonstration, nor offered another word of apology; nor did she seem desirous to vindicate herself, though Hope's countenance did not put off its first expression of displeasure and surprise. 
               At this moment Hope was called from her room; she left it congratulating herself on having successfully withstood the appeal Maud had made to her heart. So much, then, was gained. She had proved herself to be not quite beyond herself. Maud did not follow her. She went back to the table which Hope had left; she took up the book Hope had put down. She was not leading now an idle, listless life; she was full of her purposes in all these days that now were passing over her. She felt there was retrieval to be made at this time, and she must make it; her face expressed a determination to win back the good opinion, or the good feeling, Hope must have had towards her when she called her into the room. She sat down with the purpose, but when she rose up again the purpose was unfulfilled. Maud had not possessed herself of an idea, but of a memory meanwhile. She had been on a journey; she had passed all the twilight on the farm, away off; where? in what unknown region? The farm where her father and her mother lived? The place that had no name but home? She could never, when she thought of it, determine its locality; but it was in her heart, and when the vane on the meeting-house top pointed to the west, she knew it pointed towards that home; further than this she could tell nothing about it. With longing, though rarely with regret, she thought upon this spot in the universe. There was rarely a day that she did not travel thither, and when her life was most cramped here, it broke away into that far-off liberty. It did not often make her weep to think of, but it made her sad. The sunbeam along which she had trodden as she came into that room, paled into utter gloom; all the real and the substantial faded, and just left her with a horrid sense of incapacity and insufficience. It was not Mr. Rossiter, or Mr. Stanton, or Hope, or any person, that stood before her, reproving and severe; it was her incapable self, that knew nothing, and could do nothing worth the doing, that amazed her. All the effort she had been making of late to fulfil the determination she had expressed to Debby Lynch, though it was such as to be observed of all the house, and felt throughout the school, unknown to her, seemed to her now ridiculously inadequate, the very foolishness of striving. 
               Alas! there was nothing to break up this gloomy train of thought, but the call to tea! No natural change in the current of her feelings, the tide of her reflections, but a dead necessity. She must obey the summons. No one ever thought of infringing on the household regulations. Once or twice when she had in some way suffered herself to be belated, on coming in she had found the family gathered around the table, the blessing delayed until she should make her appearance, and though the reminder that order and punctuality were laws essential to the comfort of the house, and that an infringement of them by any member was a wrong to all the rest, was expressed in the gentlest manner possible, it had made an impression on her so deep that it could not well be other than abiding. 
               So Maud, when she heard that sound, started up to obey it, and, in a moment more, had taken her seat noiselessly beside Miss Gladstone, who was already in her place. 
               The little Maud had been able to do towards smoothing her hair, and wiping away the traces of her tears, as she descended the stairs, had not improved her dishevelled appearance; and when at table she first ventured to look up, she met the inquiring glance of Mr. Rossiter, who held the glance in reserve until she should look towards him. If he thought she needed utter discomfiture that look accomplished it; and not only he, but she, wondered how it was that she could ever have consented to present herself in such a condition before the house-and the head of it. 
               Indeed Maud did not escape a general observation. Miss Gladstone knew-for nothing that went on in that young heart was hidden from her insight-knew that she should learn the trouble and soothe it; for what mortal trouble was there that she could not soothe? And she took her tea with a composure that was contagious; it even calmed the disturbed life beside her to an external resemblance. 
               Had Kensett's features expressed anything on this occasion they would have expressed indignation, for he not only saw Maud's trouble, but he made a shrewd guess at the cause thereof, as he looked from Maud to Hope; from the troubled to the calm face; from the red and downcast eyes to the bright orbs full of intellect, that had no room for tears; from the drooping to the erect figure; from the warm heart's quivering, to what looked to him just then like an aspiring brain's effrontery. 
               But, commend me to a heart and tact like that of Mrs. Rossiter's! She sought no cause for Maud's commotion-she only saw its effect. The mother-heart was full of tender kindness, which, while it led her to keep silence when gentle sympathy of speech might least easily be borne, led her also to see that Maud's plate was abundantly supplied, and that the conversation went on at a swifter and a brighter pace than usual. So successful was she in her effort, that when they rose from the table Maud was smiling, and forgetful of her trouble, and only eager to do her part in the remaining labors of the day with swiftness and dexterity. 
             
             
                
               XXXVIII. THE REED IN THE WIND. 
               IT presently happened that Hope and Maud were alone in the kitchen together. Kensett, it also chanced, was in the shed, mending a broken garden tool. The gods managed it. 
               When Maud said to Hope: 
               "Oh Hope, you were not really angry with me, were you?" He heard her distinctly, and made no effort to remove himself beyond hearing. 
               "Why did you cry?" he heard Hope ask-and he detected in the words a tone that made him stop astonished in his work. He heard her repeat the question, when Maud hesitated: 
               "I was thinking," then said Maud. 
               "Of what, Maud?" 
               "Of home," said she. Her voice was tremulous, yet elevated beyond its ordinary tone. 
               Kensett's face changed, hearing that answer. He seemed seized with a sudden resolution to do something-but he did nothing, not even so much as to remove himself now beyond a hearing distance. How should he, when the gods had planted him just there! 
               The answer that made such an impression on him apparently made none on Hope. She offered no comment on the plaintive reply; it had just then no deep suggestions for her, not because of an unnatural hard heartedness, but because she was intent on pursuing her own thoughts. 
                
               "I did not mean to tire you," she said; "but it was something really very interesting that I read. You don't like that sort of reading, though." She had something more to say on this point. Kensett knew it without a nearer observation than he already had; but as for Maud, if what Hope had read entered into her mind at all, it had already passed clean out again-she could not recall the faintest notion of it. She looked a little bewildered at Hope, when she spoke so kindly, and lurking about her mouth was an expression that would have brightened into a broad smile had it met with any encouragement; but now its faintness and uncertainty impressed her features with a half-surprised sadness. 
               Hope ventured a vast distance in her next remark: 
               "You are more interested in a sort of reading that is not so-so profitable," she said: "I never saw you so wide awake as when Mr. Kensett read from the English paper about the witches." 
               What was underneath the calm grave scrutiny with which Hope Rossiter regarded Maud Saltonstall, as she asked this question? There was something that made it terrible. Kensett, out of sight, started hearing the question. The tone was perhaps suggestive of the look. 
               "Yes, I was interested," said Maud. "It was fearful, was it not?" 
               Hope did not allow herself to exhibit any great amount of sympathy with this genuine expression. She seemed rather to hold herself calmly in reserve, that she might not be agitated out of her ability of observation. 
               "It was fearful," she assented. 
               No emphasis was lent to, nothing was abstracted from the words. 
               Then said Maud hurriedly: 
               "Do you believe it is all true, Hope?" 
               "True! Nothing I should suppose could be more true; the facts have all the proof needful to sustain them." 
                
               "You do believe it: that all these people should be bewitched so?" asked Maud still more thoughtfully. And Kensett's heart thrilled to hear the deep, uneven tone in which she spoke. 
               "It never occurred to me to doubt facts authenticated as those were-and why should they seem incredible?" answered Hope. "There were witches in the days of the Old Testament, you remember." 
               "Did they say and do such foolish things as these?" asked Maud, evidently in some doubt, which even Hope's confidence had failed to remove. 
               "Little and foolish do you call them? Such acts that make so much trouble, sorrow, and ruin, foolish? It is the effect produced that makes a cause great or small." 
               "But," said Maud, evidently not very profoundly impressed by Hope's last words, "if I were a witch-" she hesitated, Hope looked at her so aghast-"if I were a witch, Hope, I would not be doing such foolish things. I would do beautiful things. For one thing I'd make you love me, Hope. That would be a great, great thing to do." 
               "Even that would be a wicked act if you did it by your witchcraft," said Hope; but the weight of her answer was lost, for the time, because another voice than Hope's said: 
               "What would you do for yourself?" It was Kensett coming up the steps, controlling himself nobly as he came-for he presented himself before them on an impulse-to break up this sort of conversation. 
               "I would be wise," answered Maud frankly, instantly, not disguising the pleasure she felt in seeing him; "it should not be so hard to learn as it is now." 
               Hope Rossiter surveyed these two, and she knew not why she trembled. But that she did tremble, and wherefore she should, this she thought she knew. 
               "You would make yourself understood, too, I think," he continued; "it is a grief and pain to you when others mistake you." 
               How gratefully she looked at him! With what a strange embarrasment she turned and met the glance of Hope. It is a pleasant thing to be understood-sometimes. If innocence and guilelessness be in the heart-if the interpreter be friendly; if your sole aspiration be peace on earth, good will towards others. 
               But there was that in his speech that was good, not only for Kensett-it communicated itself. His dignity, and self-command, the candor of his utterance, his calmness, were not without result. 
               "Maud is right in what she has said," he observed, ostensibly addressing Hope. "But unfortunately the victims of witchcraft have no choice in the matter. They are captured before they know their danger. As to your wish, Maud, you will be wise enough, all in good time, without any supernatural aid, at least from witches. God has said that He will give liberally, upbraiding not, to those who ask Him. What was it you were saying, as though you longed for friends? You will find them everywhere. In every face you look for a friend, you will have an answer. From Lynch, who made that hammer and anvil for you because you are kind to his Deborah-he told me that was the reason-up to Miss Rossiter herself. I am sure we are all your friends." 
               As he spoke, Kensett bowed courteously to Hope-his strong, manly voice was worthy to utter such words as these, and straight they went into the port they sought. 
               Young girl, looking on this page, Maud Saltonstall did not blush at these words-she was not in the least confused by them. A serene joy was in her heart, but she could not express it. What need? It would have been most natural for her to do so. But Hope was there. 
               Kensett's words lifted her up from some untoward casting down which she could not comprehend. The weight that had oppressed her was removed. She looked at Hope; she smiled. Hope smiled in turn; but the expression of her glance was like the sunlight on a winter day, that makes the day seem colder. 
               Though Kensett in the family did seem, from one point of view, to hold a place of servitude there, he never, for a moment, sunk into a servant's relation. He was not born to be a slave to any fact or circumstances. Under God he was the maker of his own fortunes-independent by virtue of his being. Nothing of external import could dishonor, taint, defile, or impede him. Those whom he served in turn served him. He would have held himself dishonored by charities, but not by kindnesses. Performing a man's work about the house, or a man's work in the study, he was one and the same-a spirit to be reverenced, trusted, loved. He had been thrown on his own resources-these he evidently meant to prove to their fullest extent-and Miss Gladstone undoubtedly was his first inspiration. But if she first won him to the love of a life of labor, all her influence could not have held him to it. There was something in him that had wakened after nineteen years of slumber-something with whose creation she had nothing to do. 
               His vigor of thought had even invigorated the thoughtful mind of Hope Rossiter. His being had made her a stranger to herself. She was thinking day by day of him, more and more; of other things less and less. 
               A cloud no bigger than a man's hand was rising upward into view, sailing through the light-she felt it. Already the atmosphere was affected by that influence, and that premonition of storm. When Margaret Gladstone smiled on Kensett the cloud was like a living flame-when Maud Saltonstall talked with him the words echoed and reverberated like thunder in the mountains. What was this? Hope Rossiter, the strong, was shaken-she was like a reed in the wind. 
             
             
                
               XXXIX. THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD. 
               WHEN Miss Gladstone went to her room that night, it was at an earlier hour than usual. She found Maud poring over her studies, but not with an altogether absorbed interest, for the book was dropped at her appearing, and the face of Maud gladly turned towards the teacher. But not a word said she. Not even when Margaret crossed the room and led Maud away from her books to the window. Not even when sitting down there, she said, "Now we will think of the day that is gone." 
               It was a long time that they sat there together in silence; at length Miss Gladstone said, and it seemed a fitting speech to escape her at such an hour: 
               "Every day, at its conclusion, should find us ready to go out and meet the next with new joy and courage. Oh, we should be so happy and so glad-so holy! Maud, did you ever think what it is to say to God, Thy will be done? What endless joy there is for the true saying of it? When you say that honestly, how strong you are!" 
               "When I came down to tea to-night you saw me; I was not strong then; I was not happy. Now I am happy, and I feel strong," answered Maud, with a gravity that at least equalled her teacher's. 
               "You would never be weak, then, if you were always happy," inquired Miss Gladstone. 
                
               "It seems to me so," said Maud. 
               "It is true," she said, "if you mean what I mean by happiness; you would never be glad in anything that was false or evil." 
               "But people do not always know what is false or evil." 
               "Yes." 
               "Do I?" 
               "Yes." Then there was a pause. Maud broke it, saying: 
               "I do not love everything that I know is good." 
               "Do you not?" 
               "No. I do not love what Hope loves. Hope loves everything. She says so. I went to sleep while she read, and that displeased her. I wished I was back on the farm-never expecting to know anything. I was happy there. Always . . . But I know it is best that I came; when I go back, I must be very much improved, so as to please them at home. They will expect it, and I should be ashamed to disappoint them. I wished I had never come, truly. But now-" 
               "Do you feel the same about it now?" asked Miss Gladstone, not unconcernedly, yet in her strong, sincere voice, that was enough to do any one great good to hear. It did Maud good; it was like a tonic to her day by day, though don't imagine for a moment, that she was in a condition that would, to common eyes, have seemed laboring under any such need. A stronger, healthier young being did not walk in the streets of that town; as far as bone and muscle went, or could go, they were a great argument in favor of Maud's moral courage and spiritual condition. 
               "But now," said Miss Gladstone, "do you feel the same about it?" 
               "No," said Maud. 
               "That is good! How does it happen?" 
               "It was better to come here and study, and learn about you and Archibald, and Mrs. Rossiter. And Hope, and her father, and Mr. Stanton," she generously threw them all in, but she forgot Debby Lynch. 
               "I think so," said Miss Gladstone. "You will like to study better when it becomes a habit-after you discover what it is that you like best." 
               "Then, may be . . . what if it should be different from what Hope likes?" 
               "Then it must be. I dare say you are not alike. What then?" 
               "If it isn't to live shut up in a room! I want the doors and windows open. I want to go in and out . . Archibald Kensett says he can study sometimes better without a book than with one. When he goes off looking for the cow, may be, or on his way over to Mr. Stanton's." 
               "I am not surprised." 
               "I knew you would not be!" This bare word from Miss Gladstone led Maud on joyously. "That is the way I'd like to study." 
               "I think it is the way you do study. Your eyes are wide open, and you learn all the beautiful things you see by heart. It should be so." 
               "Is that what Archibald meant?" 
               "I think so . . . He will not be a student like Mr. Rossiter, but a preacher like Mr. Stanton, I think." 
               "Oh, not like him!" 
               "He may esteem himself happy, if he prove as acceptable, when he teaches the people." 
               "But he will not preach like him." 
               "Wherein shall they differ?" 
               "Mr. Stanton tells them about hell, but Archie Kensett will show them the way to heaven," said Maud promptly. Miss Gladstone did not say, It is a well-drawn distinction, but probably she thought it, for it was a true one. After a moment's thoughtful silence, Maud continued: 
                
               "Miss Gladstone." 
               "Well, Maud." 
               "It would be good to go to Archie Kensett's heaven, but not to Mr. Stanton's; what is the reason?" 
               "There is no reason. You are talking nonsense; wicked nonsense, Maud." 
               "I'd dare go anywhere with Archie . . . but I wouldn't go to heaven with Mr. Stanton." 
               Margaret looked at the fearless speaker-very well she understood what she had said-she went deeper into its meaning than Maud could have done, and she said: 
               "It is foolishness to speak so-it is heaven, when love is in the heart. But if one were to actually credit what you say, you are very far from loving Mr. Stanton. Do not think of him, or speak of him; you will understand him better by and by." 
               "Is it heaven, to have love in the heart?" pondered Maud. 
               "Yes; for God is Love. And when we pray to Him, we say, 'Our Father, who art in Heaven.'" 
               "Archie is in Heaven now, then, and so are you-and who else? Is Mrs. Rossiter? Yes! O, Miss Gladstone; take me in with you. I am all alone. All the rest are in the other heaven, and that's not heaven to me. It would be heaven anywhere with you and Archibald, I know." 
               "Maud; if there is in us what seems any good thing, there is a perfect life to which I counsel you to compare it; you will see in the contrast where we have fallen short, and how very far from perfect our perfections, as you believed them, are. Look at that life, and see how considerate, and kind, and generous, and loving it was: how patient and for giving. You will not find another life so perfect and true. Look at it, Maud-study it more than anything else." 
               "I can see you better: you are near. To love you is easy. I have you here. I see you every day. You speak to me; you are so-so kind to me, and so is Archie." 
                
               "But if you study that life, study it; very soon it will not seem like a name in a book, a story of what happened long ago. He will come to be your nearest friend. He will explain all mystery. He will make life a different thing from what it has been to you. He will be like a king, and like a brother to you. You will live to please Him, not yourself. You will forget all the trifles that have troubled you, and rejoice to let His will be done." 
               "It is true," said Maud. "I believe it. I'll study that life. I want to know how to be like you and Archie. If it has made you different from what you were-but has it?" 
               "Yes; yes." 
               "How could you have been different?" 
               "By the grace of God I am what I am. It is by that same grace that you must learn to do his will. You ask me how I could be different-it is in my thoughts, and hopes, and feelings." 
               "Will I be, too?" 
               "As truly as you live." 
               "Is it so with every one, Miss Gladstone?" 
               "With every one," she answered, "and that is what is meant where Christ tells Nicodemus, 'Ye must be born again.' It is nothing less, dear Maud." 
               "But if, after I was born again, I should grow up like- like some others: I would rather keep just as I am; I would certainly, Miss Gladstone. I had rather not be born." 
               "Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, patience, hope, forgiveness," said Margaret, as though Maud's last words were unheard. 
               Maud followed her in that enumeration; she was silent after it. No farther speaking passed between her and Miss Gladstone that night; but those words, love, peace, joy, were repeated in her thought over and over again, and when Maud slept her countenance expressed their spirit, as if giving an assurance that she had apprehended it in depths beyond the utterance of her lips, even within her heart. 
             
             
                
               XL. THE COMFORTER. 
               IT was early the next morning that Maud was working in the garden. The house was astir according to its custom. By a special permission she had permission to work among the flowers. When she went down to the kitchen, Mrs. Rossiter, who had as yet found no opportunity for offering her balm for the wound, whatever it might be, from which Maud suffered last night, said, and happy was she saying it, for she heard Maud as she came lightly down the stairs, and beheld her as she came dancing into the room: 
               "Will you go and work in my garden for me, Maud?-the weeds will get the start of us I'm afraid. Here is the trowel if you need it; and Maud, bring in some flowers for your room when you come. I will call you in good time for breakfast." 
               Maud's answer was a kiss, as she danced up to the kind speaker, and then she lost no time in going on to the garden. On his way to the barn, Kensett, of course, saw her at her work. And he observed that she was alone. Maud neither saw nor heard him, so busy was she, so happy in her work. The first intimation she had of his approach was the sound of his voice. And this is what he said: 
               "Maud." Merely Maud. Yet, how quickly, how distinctly, she heard. 
               She turned herself towards him, but did not rise to her feet. Something she saw in his face that made hers a trifle less gay. He had been up long before daylight; indeed, of late the days had all begun with him long before it had with others of the house. He came up to her, and stood so silent, that she, unconscious of what she did, apprehensive of the silence, lifted up herself. It almost seemed as if he were in some need of her. What he said, surprised and pleased her both. 
               "Maud," he said, "I do not wish you to be troubled by anything that Miss Rossiter says to you about yourself. She means to be kind; if what she says sounds otherwise, thank her for it all the same. She must mean you well, you know. You may not understand her, but you should like her all the same." 
               He did not say love; he understood the difference between liking and loving, and he was not the sort of person to commend an impossibility. 
               "I do like her," answered Maud hastily. "She is kind to me; kinder than I ought to expect. I would rather please her than not." 
               "I know that ..... Miss Gladstone never finds fault with you about your lessons, does she?" 
               "No." 
               "Right! And Mrs. Rossiter?" 
               "Oh, we never talk about them." 
               "Right! She is a blessed woman." 
               "But Hope means it all kindly. We all understand it. She means to be a true friend, Archibald." 
               "Say Archie." 
               "Archie." 
               I suppose she does. But don't let her make you cry again. Everybody is satisfied with you, I am sure. I think, Maud Saltonstall, you were meant to be one of the happy ones. It seems to me it should be easier for you to do the things that God and man approve of, than it is for others. You have a better way. I heard you say something about your home. Do you greatly long to go back to it?" 
               "Not yet, for it is not time." 
               "That is right," he said, apparently relieved. But he did not say how tolerable Maud made the house for him: neither did he ask her what she meant by saying that it was not time. He went off on a very different train-he felt generous that morning. "Stay," he said; but the injunction was addressed to himself, as it would seem, rather than to her, for certainly she had no thought of going. "When I heard you speak of home I thought of a picture I read not long ago. I want to give it to you. It will be sweet for you to think of. Will you promise me that you will think of it Maud." 
               "Yes Archie," said Maud, not laughing, but smiling; the smile was delicious. 
               It certainly-the smile, the consent, or that name by which she called him-gave vigor to his memory, and music to his voice, while he said, "My home was in the midst of just such a scene. I wanted some one here to know it. I wished you to know it; then sometimes when you wonder, as you have sometimes wondered at me, you'll know what I am thinking of." All that you might call a smile had vanished from Maud's face while listening to this speaking, but what must have been the nature of that smiling when its gliding away left a light so celestial as Kensett beheld now on her expectant young face? In the inspiration of that moment he might have spoken words as glowing from his heart as he now repeated from his memory. 
               "'There were hills which garnished her proud heights with stately trees; humble valleys, whose bare estate seemed comforted with the refreshing of silver rivers; meadows, enamelled with all sorts of eye-pleasing flowers; thickets, which being lined with most pleasant shade were witnessed so too by the cheerful disposition of many well-tuned birds; each pasture stored with sheep, feeding with sober security; while the pretty lambs, with bleating oratory, craved the dam's comfort; here a shepherd's boy piping, as though he should never be old; there a young shepherdess, knitting and withal singing; and it seemed that her voice comforted her hands to work, and her hands kept time to her voice music."' 
               "I can see her," said Maud; "and the whole of it. Archie, is it heaven?" 
               "Only Arcadia," answered Kensett, and he took up his pail, and turned his face towards the barn, and went, after a moment's pause, away, at a more rapid rate than usual. 
               Maud was glad that he went; nothing could be added to what had been said; she stooped down to the flower beds, glad that no one was there to observe the tears which fell into some of the flower cups, and mixed there with the dew. But though her tears might fall, her soul was uplifted by his words. They may have astonished her, but they also uplifted, mightily sustained her. Then, even as they must, she felt, in every future hour. But, let no one suppose that he had flattered her-or that she was vain over some words he had spoken-or that she contrasted the picture Kensett had given her of herself, with that drawn by Hope Rossiter. She had received no new impression except this-that it is a blessed, blessed thing to win a true soul's confidence. Too glad, too grateful for vanity-but I shall say nothing of the pride that was in her heart. 
               Not a word of the pride-though it is a pleasure to walk behind her up the garden path as she goes, before she is called, her hands full of flowers, back to the house. It is a pleasure to look upon her erect figure, and observe how she takes the morning air into her lungs; the arch of heaven does not look too high above her now-she treads without a hindrance, lofty, free, and her thoughts tower high above the clouds that float silvery and fleecy above her. Indeed, you might well call her now a 'young Hercules,' and not subject yourself to a smile-albeit her stature is five feet and hardly an inch over. 
               She goes into the shed, and so on into the kitchen; like a bird sailing fast on with the wind; so that Mrs. Rossiter feels that she says the right thing in saying, "As gay as a bird this morning, my child!" And if Maud could have read the rest in the lady's eyes, the words she spoke were cold compared with the thought she felt. 
               "Like a bird that loves to sing for you," said Maud, gay in the sudden emancipation she felt. And quite possessed by her impulse she sang to some words of a hymn, a swift sweet tune of her own invention. 
               And as she sang, arrested first by her surprise, and held in the attitude she fell into at that moment, as if enthralled by the voice and the song, in the middle of the kitchen with an iron spoon in one hand, a bowl of meal in the other, emblems of her domestic avocations which must not be suspended a moment longer than the courtesy of the present instant seemed to require, stood Mrs. Grace Rossiter. 
               Before the song was finished, Mr. Rossiter came in. His wife started when she saw him; she had not heard his approach, and her face flushed when she met his look, as if conscious of detection in some very foolish act. But, though she averted her face because she was ashamed of her confusion, she still stood to listen. She need not blush; Mr. Rossiter's heart is beating with a violence unknown to her, through her whole life. 
               Maud's voice never faltered in the utterance of a strain. Kensett's words that morning had given her a new confidence in herself, which had its own fascination-her courage was invoked by the novelty of the position in which she now found herself; she looked at Mr. Rossiter and fairly laughed in her song, but recovered herself again, and he-stayed to the end. There was but one other thing that he could do, besides taking himself out of the room, and he could not lift his voice in opposition to hers, and ask her to stop-not being anywhere a man of expedients, he allowed her to go on, and listened to the end. 
               There were other listeners also to that strain. Miss Gladstone, in the chamber above, stopped short in her praying, and looked from the window near which she knelt, looked out on the earth and the heavens, and her heart opened wide for that voice. To her ear it was nothing less than the jubilate of a liberation. It was the lifting of a burden from her soul when she heard Maud Saltonstall under that roof finding so free and strong an utterance. 
               To her it was the surety of happy coming days for Maud. And if the head of the prayerful woman bowed yet lower when the song ended, it was in the humility that ever prevails in the hearts of the most thankful in the homage they render the Giver of gifts. 
               Other listeners still. Down the stairs step by step, against her will it seemed, Hope had gone, until she stood there in the entry, looking through the door by which her father had passed into the kitchen. Through that door Hope Rossiter's astonished eyes gazed upon the group. The music of those tones that ran through the house was lost upon her; was but a confused sound in her ear. The melody vanished from the sound the moment she beheld the group. There stood her father! as if drawn from his study by that song, (but such was not the case.) There stood Maud Saltonstall, calm, self-possessed, uttering herself in joy-whatever else may have escaped Hope, this did not escape her. 
               There, too, stood her mother. Oh, if Hope could but have sunned herself in the gracious expression beaming from that loving woman's face, how warm, how comfortable she would have become! 
               But she allowed herself only one glance, and then she went back to her room, and shut herself therein, with her terrible suspicion-what evil influence was this spreading over the whole house? It issued from Maud Saltonstall! 
               There would be a difficulty in persuading a person whose first glance at the world should be through red stained glass, that it was green, and fresh, and fair. 
             
             
                
               XLI. THE ECHO OF THE SONG. 
               "DID you hear Maud sing this morning, Miss Gladstone?" asked Kensett, of the teacher as she went into the street. 
               "I was in the house," answered Margaret. 
               "Was there nothing strange about it?" he asked. 
               "Something strange for sweetness, and for strength." 
               "Did you ever hear a finer voice, besides your own?" 
               "I never knew a soul possessed of better tones," she said; "they admit of generous cultivation." 
               She meant soul, when she said it, but Kensett did not perceive the intended distinction, and went on. 
               "Of precisely what they cannot have," said he, almost with impatience. 
               "But that she has satisfies her, and us." 
               "Even if that were true, would it be all that she deserves?" asked Kensett, not quietly. 
               "What more could be asked for?" 
               "Nothing, I suppose. Yes, send her to England." 
               "Archibald, for what?" 
               "Cultivation." 
               "Again, for what." 
               "A career." 
               "A career! And why?" 
               "Because she was made for one." 
               "But not in that direction. What are you thinking of?" 
                
               "Nothing, I suppose, nothing. But it seems strange that a rose fit for a Persian garden should open in the forest, and no one regard it." 
               "There you are mistaken. Think of your own experience, and be confident that her destiny is in hands that know well how to shape it. Think of my experience if you will, and my choice, and be quiet." 
               "I do believe it, but at times I am possessed with a fear that it may all be a mistake. Are we not free agents? Oh, Miss Gladstone, why can we not have a holiday? I have a hundred questions to ask, a hundred things to say to you." 
               "How happened it that you allowed them to accumulate to that extent? There is hardly time now for more than one. But we must find the time. I too have much to say to you; a great deal to ask. Something about your studies, though about them I feel I need not inquire." 
               Wholly possessed was she of Kensett's confidence, and what Margaret had now said pleased him. The color that deepened in his cheek, and the frankness of his confidence, revealed as much. 
               "There is opportunity for one question at least," he said. "Do you think, Miss Gladstone, that Maud Saltonstall knows anything, the least, of what we call religious experience?" 
               "Maud had received scarcely any religious instruction until she came here," Margaret replied. 
               "But she must always have been religious in her heart; do you mean that?" asked Kensett, evidently speaking his own opinion, and yet fearful of or for it. 
               "Religion is the love of God and man," she answered thoughtfully. "I believe she is not quite ignorant of that; though it may not have had a vigorous growth, nor have extended to a work of grace. Still, I think, there will be no striking change in her character, though she may have to come through some pain to a deeper knowledge of herself in her relations to life. But she is a joyous, a rare spirit, Archibald." 
               "And beautiful beyond all things," said he, so fervently that at the sound of his own voice he was startled, yet it had only expressed what was in his heart, and he was willing it should be known, nay, was desirous that it should be; and he went on: 
               "The sound of her voice, as it came to me in the garden, was like something I have dreamed of, but only dreamed of, before. It reminds me of the first nights of our voyage. Why will you let her vex herself thinking of the differences that exist, and must exist, between her and Hope Rossiter? We all admire Hope, and wonder at her, but do you ever think of her when you thank God for all the beauty and the glory in the world? Does she ever glide into your prayer like a spirit, and you feel that she is no intrusion? Would she not stand up stiff and awkward, Miss Gladstone, and be in the way? I should be a conformist and read, my prayers from a book, in desperation, I think, if I were set over a congregation of which she should be the type." 
               "Yes, there was never a more rigid non-conformist than our Hope," said Miss Gladstone, more anxious to clearly understand what he was thinking about, than quick to rebuke his strictures. 
               He answered her without delay. 
               "Precisely that. It is important that a person should discover what he does believe. But a tree is better than a rock. Charity, Miss Gladstone! is not that the greatest of the virtues?" 
               "Be sure that you exercise it!" she said, significantly. 
               "You must go in, and the day so bright," regretted Kensett, for they had now come to the school door. "Can this be you?" With that question he looked upon her, as if suddenly he doubted his eyes. 
               "It would not be so bright to me if I could not go in. What shall you do to-day?" she said, in her usual quiet manner; apparently she had not heard his last words. Instead of answering her immediately he stood seeking to decipher what he could not read, the mystery of her calmness. He pursued his observation only with the consciousness of surprise and admiration-not aware of the limit of his own consciousness. 
               Miss Gladstone's words, therefore, could have had, to no other listening ear, the startling sound they had to his, when she asked: 
               "Archibald, do you consider me an exile or a pilgrim?" 
               But he replied, almost instantly recovering himself: 
               "A pilgrim, assuredly." 
               "Do you think that I had my sober senses when I sailed for New England?" 
               "The whole world was mad if you had not your sanity," answered he, with all the fervor of the old time's homage in his voice. 
               "Have I the aspect of a person consumed of ennui, or of one really satisfied?" she questioned further. 
               "You know!" stammered Kensett, blushing, ashamed before her. 
               "Thank God I do know. But it pains me that you should doubt my sincerity." 
               "I doubt it!" cried he, in amazement. With his whole being Kensett denied that charge. 
               "When you lament my duties, my sacred obligations, do you not reflect upon the spirit with which I perform them? Believe me I anticipate, I wish for no higher joy than I possess. But, I know I have your confidence. We studied each other in a strange school, and learned our lesson, I think, perfectly." So did she restore him at once, by a word, to the relation which he began to think he had ceased to sustain. Then she asked him again the plan he had formed for his day's conduct, and Kensett replied: 
                
               "There's a big black book, waiting on my table for me." 
               "Yes." 
               "And back of the parsonage is the woodland," said he. 
               "Many a sweet song may you hear there this day! That voice so dear to both of us would never have had so rich a sound had she not learned much of those teachers you will hear. May it be with the preacher, even as with the singer." Now she extended her hand; Kensett took it; she felt how fast and warm his pulse was beating, it betrayed the heart-calm lay her hand in his, it soothed him long after he had left her. 
               In the school-room Maud sat, not before her desk, not before her books, but before a vial of water which was half slipped through a hole in her desk that had been cut with a deal of pains; the vial held a rose; that morning Kensett gave it to her. Debby would have added to the rose, for she was in the habit of bringing flowers for Maud's vase, but for some reason this rose must have no companions. It was before the rose she sat, but before a vision also. "Here a shepherd-boy, piping as though he should never be old; there a young shepherdess, knitting and, withal, singing; and it seemed that her voice comforted her hands to her work, and her hands kept time to her voice music." "Proud heights" of hills with "stately trees," "humble valleys," "silver rivers," "meadows, flowers, thickets, birds, sheep," a heavenly scene was before the eyes of Maud, and she in the very midst of it. But she did not ride through it alone with Lady Jane. She went on foot with a companion, my friends. That companion was not Debby Lynch. 
               Debby Lynch was dethroned, and she had some faint notion of the fact. It did not make her happy, for Maud had not been happy! She had thought that was the reason: and how had she vexed her soul, vainly striving to attain unto the consolation of those unknown griefs. But to-day Maud's joyful face was as incomprehensible, and hardly more satisfactory to her mind; all people will understand that it must be so; for with this joy, endeavor in what way she might, she could have nothing to do. Debby did not say outright to herself, nor actually think those grievous, bitter words, she does not need me-she only felt them-only felt them. 
               Mrs. Rossiter's face was lustrous with thoughts that pleased her, as she went through her ordinary morning occupations. Anything so fresh and so inspiriting as that voluntary song of Maud's, it were but truth to say, she had not heard for years. It relieved the whole day of monotony; it lifted the hours and herself with them into a more bracing atmosphere, into a brighter light than usual. Her thoughts ran along the tune, and were no burden to it; her step was quickened, "her eyes smiled constantly." 
               It was a healthful exhilaration, not a passing excitement which Maud had occasioned. During the past months, every day had been an added blessing to the life of Mrs. Rossiter. She had unconsciously forsaken the dismal habit of subtle self-questioning which she had once suffered to distract her. She occupied herself now with living and present things. She dared now to be happy. And Mr. Rossiter presented no impediment. Of course, sometimes when she would be thinking of him and herself, she attributed the fact to other than true causes. But she was happy in her ignorance, and she was a better wife and Christian because she dared accept the precious gifts of God in their purity and excellence, untarnished by her doubts and fears, than she had been since she was a bride. Therefore, whatever Mr. Rossiter might be to himself, or to the eye all-seeing, to her he was excellence, and wisdom, the satisfaction of her heart; and it was the broad light filling her heart that now illuminated her understanding, and would do so, forever and forever. 
               It was Margaret Gladstone, none other, none less than she, who had wrought this deliverance for Grace Rossiter. To Kensett, Margaret was a sacred presence, only not worshipped. She was not the same to Grace. The glory of her past could not to any of these New England eyes, make resplendent the triumph of her present. The moon and stars are heavenly and dear, to eyes that know not the light with which they shine. We magnify the sun. 
               Genius has the gift of tongues. It was Margaret's from her birth. She had the power to make herself intelligible to the mind, dear to the heart of this new world, as she had been to the old. Everywhere, in the parsonage, the school-room, the church, and in society, her presence was an influence felt and recognized. It was the efficacy of this wonder-working power that Mrs. Rossiter exhibited. This it was that saved her from an untimely blight. She had needed no teaching for the conduct of her life, least of all such instruction as she had through long and weary years received. She required only the happy surroundings which by right were hers; hers even by virtue of those words, home, husband, child. 
               This was proved every day, if not to mortal observation, to the gladdened sight of angels. 
               A child's song may seem a trivial thing, but you might say the same of the cup of cold water that receives a heavenly recompense. That song was a sufficient cause for a whole day's happiness to Mrs. Rossiter, because, firstly, without it she was happy; and secondly, all that expression signified in Maud's behalf, was of a character to please a good and hopeful heart. 
               But besides the song, Maud had given Mrs. Rossiter some thing sweet to think of. 
               Kensett brought a rose in from the garden, and it chanced that Maud was the first person he met on entering the house. He gave it to her. He might have given it to Hope, had she stood there instead, but had he done so he would never have asked what she would do with it-he did ask Maud. It was in Mrs. Rossiter's presence and hearing; and Maud said she should keep it. Then Archibald seemed curious to know by what process she would contrive to do so; and Mrs. Rossiter heard more than Maud did hear, but not more than Maud did feel, in the voice that asked the question. And she listened, only with less interest than the youth, while the girl assured him that she should take it with her to school, and have it there before her eyes all day. And when he laughed, and asked her if he should bring other flowers to tie with it, Mrs. Rossiter heard again in the words more than young Maud could hear, and she knew, without turning her glance upon him, that a smile beyond the voice of laughter was deepening in Kensett's eyes when Maud told him she would take the rose alone. 
               But it would be quite dead before night, he lingered to say, though Hope was in the room now. No, Maud answered, it would not .... Would she press it in a book? No .... Would she give it a vase and water? Yes.... Then possibly it might be as bright and splendid to-morrow as to-day. It should live two days instead of one.... Longer than that, she said .. But he entreated that she would throw it aside after to-morrow. Its glory would be quite gone then... No ... She was going to plant it in a garden that she knew of- her own garden. It would still be fresh there when the season was over, and winter come. Mrs. Rossiter knew where that garden was ... Did Mrs. Rossiter really know? Although Kensett seemed to be indulging in a mere whim of frivolity in this vain-talk with Maud, there was a serious questioning in the quick glance he cast on the minister's wife. His face flushed as he turned to her, for she met his glance, and he thought, with some deep meaning-with some ready answer to his searching look. Did she really know? he asked again, and was it hid beyond discovery? yet he would find it out... 
               Mrs. Rossiter had not a doubt of that, but she did not make her conviction manifest. 
               She said, "You steal my time, Maud," and went on with her work, really because Hope's presence rebuked her for the part she bore in such a conversation, for the interest she felt in it. 
               Her withdrawal was a suggestion that the work of each was waiting; on which, Kensett, Hope, and Maud, departed their several ways. 
               But, as I said, that was a happy day to Mrs. Rossiter. In all performance of her duties, her thoughts ran in their own direction. The romance of her own life was brightened to her recollection, in the prospect of this fairy land of love, on which, it might be, Kensett and Maud would enter. 
               When the occasion of temptation has passed by, the soul that yielded to it is apt to think that the power which vanquished him is something to be feared no more. Have the tornado and simoon a cause, and shall there be no repetition? 
               Mr. Rossiter had become accustomed to the presence of Maud Saltonstall. Had ceased to ask her of her mother. But he had merely veiled the statue that he might go about the works of life unhindered. Abigail living, had given fresh vitality to a passion that had never perished, never changed. After the resuscitation, she had not ceased to live with him- veiled, but there, there always, with his heart. His abstraction had once another cause, it deepened now with this. 
               With that burst of song the veil had now been rent and tossed away. Once more the arms of a lost love were round him. His struggle to escape them only gave significance to his surrender. If he agonized, it was not so much for freedom, as for bondage. 
               Many years, a score of them, and more, he had been dealing with abstractions, for in his studies and his creed he had left out the human element. This wakened love was charged with vitality. The wakened love was human; it had the strength and fervor of his youth. He did not remember, he lived it again. Lived in it as in that score of years he had lived in no other thing. 
               Had his theology been the crown of that crossed passion- its solution, its loftiest result, its purification-it would have answered love's great purpose, but it was not, and his exposure was complete, his condition defenceless. No matter what his creed was, his heart did not endorse it-it was not the loved disciple's Christianity. He would have died for it no doubt, but he had not yet begun to live for it. 
               Else had he found in this fact his protection, his safety from assault. To find anywhere a shelter, he must lay anew the foundations of his faith, and build up a temple that should be indeed a holy place of refuge, whence no authority of evil, however powerful, however alluring, could demand or draw him. Let his acquirements be estimated at their value: the lapidary's calling is not vain; they were rare treasures of knowledge which he had acquired, but the man himself needed salvation, and these precious things could not redeem him. 
               He took the voice with him into his study. It spoke to him there. He was reckless of the hours, prodigal of time. Now and then that happens to us which makes important occupations very trivial to our thinking. If we reflect on them at all it is to wonder at the power of absorbing us they had. 
               Mr. Rossiter would not have looked with patience on any intrusion, even on Hope's coming, that day. What were books, teaching, preaching? He and his were here. Say he was insane ... but is there not insanity for which the madmen are responsible? 
                
               The remembrance of to-day will probably astonish him tomorrow, or if not so soon, at some day not remote. He will fancy again that the tempter is dead because he slumbers. He will go on teaching Hope, but not praying for his wife: he will fulfil his duties-listen to Miss Gladstone, and derive some inspiration from her energy and devotion-confer with his brethren, and very likely say, "Get thee behind me Satan." But ought he not to know that Beelzebub did never yet obey such bidding? 
             
             
                
               XLII. DUTY. THE SOLITARY WATCH. 
               HOPE ROSSITER pored over her books and exercises in her room, that room which had neither the rising nor the setting sun, only its passing rays at noonday. 
               Hard was the way she went. In the first place her heart had awakened to a dumb sense of the barrenness of a mere intellectual life, and yet she was not aware of her poverty. Her heart was not so great in its possessions that all the world might give would merely prove the good will of the world a gilding of the gold; yet she did not know it. She could not have said this had she endeavored to express herself. On the contrary, she imagined that she understood herself, and that the mystery to be deciphered was in other characters. She was right in deeming that there was somewhere a great wrong with which she had to do; but that she should have gone out of herself to seek it! She was active in the repetition of a very old mistake. She believed that a work was committed to her trust, and "vain was the help of man!" She stood alone in the perception of that work, and though she trembled in view of it, and shrunk from its performance, or its occupation, duty called her on. Not hers the readiness, but the great sorrow of the doing. 
               This preface needs an explanation. 
               Hope Rossiter loved Kensett, and was so far from a right perception of the fact, that she fell into a terrible mistake. And these are the ways in which she deceived herself about it. We may consider them on this day, for on this day her fears came to a climax, and the mystery to its solution. 
               She had regarded him as a student; had been jealous of all impediments that seemed to obstruct, or bade fair to obstruct his progress. For a time she had been free of these fears in respect to him, of all apprehensions whatever, and she did not perceive that the intellectual sympathy between them must necessarily be partial, and of limited duration; she did not perceive that she could only surprise him, and excite his ambition to surpass her in acquirement; and that this paltry ambition would in a short time die out, of its own weakness, from his soul, finding no support there. She did not know that her apparent want of human sympathies was just a want of all vitality in their friendship. She was thinking of him, but not so much of him as herself; not actually benefiting by him, but considering the aid that she could render him. 
               In various ways the fear had of late been urged upon her that this sympathy between him and herself was lessening. This living man, with warm blood in his veins, with all his generous and ardent impulses, was withdrawn from her. What should withdraw him? If his books absorbed him it was well; rivals can endure that a third party should achieve the victory they seek. But he did not of late appear to be more diligent as a student than he had been. 
               Now, Kensett had not changed towards Hope; she was to him as wonderful as ever she had been, and really quite as near; but she had changed toward him, and towards herself still more. It was she, not he, who was restless, disquieted, in her usual pursuits. She might open her books, but where now was their all-absorbing charm? She might linger all day among them unmindful of the glory and the grandeur of the world outside that poor wooden building, but not so lost in them that she could not hear Maud's voice rising from below; Maud chatting with Mr. Kensett, in the porch, or in the garden; he assisting her in conquering the difficulties of some problem or thought; serving her, or she him, in any little way of service prompted by gentle-heartedness and kindly sympathy. 
               Maud was changing every day; and every day did she become more and more strange to Hope. Hope's heart was hardening towards her, while Maud's heart was brightening and warming to life. And it was all because of Kensett. 
               Accustomed as she was to look into her own soul in times of disquiet, Hope Rossiter closed the books she had opened on this day, and set about a thorough examination of her thoughts. It was in vain that she endeavored to receive the speculations and conclusions of others on matters indifferent, while her own mind was in its present state. The father and the child were nearer than they thought. 
               Within and without her was the same lurid, discoloring, distorting light. And whence did, whence could this light emanate? Through all space and dominion she sought it, evading every premonition of what must be her final judgment, until she came to the thought of Maud. From her, from her alone it radiated, and fell like a blight on all things. The whole house was under a curse, she not excepted, who was appointed to the solitary watch. In this light how did the august proportions of Mr. Stanton shrink to littleness, and how for this did her heart condemn her! By this token, and the fact that she, she alone, had a perception of the ruin that was come, or advancing upon them, she knew that the work was hers to do. What work? a dire, an evil one. 
               A premonition of its obligations had constrained her to a watchfulness over a human being that left her no exemption. Under that trial the character of Maud stood out written all over with hieroglyphics, which Hope's wisdom could not decipher. In the pursuit of this study, other studies lost their charm; and her mother, beholding the effect, whose cause was hidden, rejoiced in it! 
                
               From her conclusions, which were now arrayed before her mind, conclusions towards which she had advanced day after day, Hope shrunk in horror. Until now she had not dared to cherish them. To avoid them, she had compelled herself to solitude, abstraction, prayer, fasting, but the suspicion had darkened, had intensified, working hour by hour, until it had possessed itself of her reason, and how should she combat with it longer? It was no natural influence that Maud Saltonstall exerted in that house! It was not sympathy, it was not pity that made Kensett the friend of Maud. But a chain was on him, which, if left unbroken, would lead him to perdition. Dismayed, horrified, Hope might be at this thought, but once bare before her, it insidiously put forth all its subtle power. Imagination had a weird-like office to perform in her case, and did perform it perfectly. Conjecture had never till now declared itself, but had reserved its utterances until they were marshalled into the solidity of fact. 
               Now she recalled the dread events of history, of which her memory cherished a store; how slight in the beginning were all demoniacal demonstrations! That the influences which had been working in the house had wrought upon her not as on the others; that she had been singled out from them to endure all the torture of consciousness and observation, to awaken to the knowledge of what had brought about these changes-for changed in all except its form was their home-life-here was her warrant that she was singled out to work the work of a deliverer there. 
               Having undertaken this service, Hope Rossiter might faint under its requirements, but she was not the one to abandon it while her life lasted. A firm belief in her call to the work, prevented her escaping it. She could but look into her own heart, and perceiving the havoc and anarchy there, resolutely set about its prevention in the souls of others. Alas, poor child, mistaking thus the tortures, jealousies, and madness of a passionate love for the delusions and temptation tions of the devil! She was thinking that Jerome Stanton was her friend of friends, and that she should probably be married to him some day. And what could this rebellion against such destiny be but the very distraction of the adversary? 
               If she heard Kensett's step upon the stair, she listened to it with an eagerness that took away her breath; if she met him face to face, it was more to feel his glance than to receive his praise for anything that she had done or ever could do. She wanted no praise from him. She would have given up the prospect of all future acquirements, all ambitious aspirations, if she might be with him continually. His presence stole in between her and the page she tried to scan, and hid all that was written thereon from her sight. Instinctively she felt that she must greatly change in order to come clearly within his range of understanding: she would have suffered an entire metamorphosis; she hated that self which could be little to him. This was true of her. It was her truest being. She loved him to the uttermost with every passion of her nature, and yet, could so mistake the fact, as to deem herself, in those hours when she knew and felt that he was heaven and life to her, under the influence of-witchcraft! 
               The imagination, which for days and weeks had been agitating in secret, the mystery of witchcraft, through the rumors which had come from beyond seas, the jealous heart, which unawares had been won by its own conventional self to a supposed interest in the progress of a fellow-student, that imagination and that heart saw in what society he sought a relaxation of his mind-even in society which, were he not beside himself, he must have despised. Urged on by these thoughts, and these convictions, under the mastery of what she believed an irresistible religious impulse, which was not at liberty to choose its own paths of action, she was ready to fulfil the work she found to do! 
               It is always so with leaders in astounding enterprises; Ruthlessly they throw away the keys of their hearts, and gird on their swords. How often does the issue of a battle answer the question that occasioned it? 
               Hope Rossiter would at least guard her soul against all self-deception, she had said. And so she had studied that simple character-a strange character indeed, to her-until it became inexplicable to her understanding. The manner in which it lay open beyond all fear or suspicion to whatever observation-its ingenuousness, the confidence of its trust, were but-but what? but the wiles of the devil, assumed to hide the real nature they represented, were but masks of the bondwoman who was sold to sin. In the progress of this conviction, it was Hope's first impulse to avoid all intercourse with Maud, but the conviction, full grown, made a different demand. Some providence had necessitated the introduction of that spirit under her father's roof. She, the sole watchman, must be on her guard. The danger must be fairly met, and, by God's help, conquered. The town, the country were concerned in it. 
               If the rose adorning Maud's desk in the school-room had only stood that day upon Hope's table-Kensett's own gift to her-Hope Rossiter would hardly have felt summoned to the work she was now prepared to do. Myriad roses blooming, budding, and unfolding, scattering their perfume and their leaves on any breath, on any that will bear them! and this one, of all the millions, beautiful and precious! This one more than all. This one distilling poison, this one scattering blight. 
               Meanwhile, at that very time, Mr. Stanton was working in a field with half a dozen of his neighbors, who were lending their help towards a clearance of its stumps and brush wood; for, in that field, during the present year, his congregation were going to erect for him a parsonage, and Mr. Stanton, while he worked as a man does in his own field, was indulging in a gentler train of thoughts. The year was ended. He had his parsonage built, and with its management Hope Rossiter had all to do. It was an humble house of wood; it had a study, and in the study there were books, and among them lived Hope Rossiter. Studious life, strong preaching, a career for both; activity, stirring industry; but no staying, no lingering to drink the wine of life. He had no sense that craved it. 
               This thought was not borne in like a breath from the tropics to intoxicate the mind of Mr. Stanton. He could lay it down and take it up again, without any new conceptions of loss and profit-but it daily came to him, this thought-he must speak to Mr. Rossiter; he never turned his horse's head away from that hospitable parsonage but he was stronger in the resolution. He must speak to Mr. Rossiter about Hope. It was full time, he thought; but not a solitary apprehension flitted across his prospect. He had accustomed himself to regard Hope's destiny as one in its issue with his. He was too strong in himself, too proud of her, to doubt that the strong tide of their united being should flow out at length upon the future, and enrich that future with its majestic progress. It was merely time to speak because the fact that Hope was unclaimed, unappropriated, reflected on him as a man "slothful in business." 
             
             
                
               XLIII. THE PREACHER. 
               KENSETT had his dream too, with the black book on his knee under the tree branches. 
               The study in which he was engaged, it is high time to say, had a potent, and a constant charm for him, but the structure of his mind was such that he could rise from the most absorbed, profound investigation, eager for a quick and total change of occupation, eager to embrace it, and draw from it the fresh invigoration of which he felt in need. It entirely satisfied him that he had Maud Saltonstall of whom to think. 
               For he had fallen upon her true self unexpectedly, and that perhaps constituted one-third of the potence of the charm, but the remaining two-thirds were independent of circumstance. There was something actually to think of, in her; it was not a man-made fancy, equal only to existence in these brief moments of idleness which he found to indulge. 
               Besides intellect, Kensett had morality and affections. His mind was singularly free from prejudices which he could mistake for duties; he had a brave spirit that had confronted death, and been saved by the energy of his purpose, and his faith in Providence, which good qualities ever qualify a soul for the guidance of God. 
               Since he came to Mr. Rossiter's house and became an inmate there, he had taken, as has been shown, a new survey of life; had begun to live in earnest. And Hope Rossiter opened upon his vision a wonder of intellect and grace. 
                
               Mr. Stanton, who had so cordially welcomed him to the field of theological study, had, in the outset, signified his own appreciation of the advantages under which he began his career. Incited by his brother's zeal, and Miss Gladstone's presence, and the industrious application of the daughter of the house, Kensett had set out in his studies. He had studied under Hope, as well as under her father. Studied under, until he began to study of her. And as he grew in grace he became aware of the real features of that life. At first she was his dream, his lofty ideal; but on the day that he sits in the woods, with the black book on his knee, she is neither. It is another face that brightens to him, and makes him feel at home when she is near. It is another voice-that calls him Archie, and moves him by its music as no other voice did ever; not even Margaret Gladstone's, in the midst of the great congregation that once gathered when and where she would, at her bidding, to bow before her as one worshipper. 
               If she were to come now through the wood, he would forget his study. Should she speak to him, he would long remember her words, trivial though they might be; they would flit above his graver thoughts when he went on with his labors: he would look up and smile at them when he paused to turn a page, or ponder an idea. 
               It is not Hope Rossiter-it is Maud. It is Maud, to whom he gave the rose; and he knows well the garden into which she will transplant the flower. She is in the school-room: he is in the wood. But are they separate? She looks upon the rose, But he, with feet uncovered-for the ground is holy-walks in the shadowed garden to which the bud shall be transferred, and all around him is the perfume of the rose. 
               Since Kensett had fairly entered on his studies he had been requested occasionally by Mr. Rossiter to take a part in the prayer meetings of the church; at home, too, when the head of the house was indisposed, or called away at the hour appointed for family worship, Archibald had taken his place. 
               With the humility that became his years, yet with the dignity that did befit him as a mortal worshipper among his fellow-worshippers, his voice had lifted up his heart on these occasions. 
               It was a milder voice even than Mr. Rossiter's, yet it had in its compass tones that could startle the hearer as the sound of a bugle breaking in on a mountain solitude. There was nothing like weakness in the beauty of the strain. Weakness is the token of incompleteness, incapacity; sweetness, a quality of perfection. It was the message of love he had to deliver. 
               As an expounder of the law, Mr. Rossiter was probably unsurpassed among his brethren. He was made for books, a quiet room, and calm investigation; his influence among the people was the reflex of his influence among the clergy. As a deliverer of the law, Mr. Stanton was unequalled-he felt its terrors and its majesty; his utterance, if an exaggeration, was an exaggeration of truth, and not of falsehood. To Kensett, of these three, it was reserved to teach the gospel of Christ, as the loved disciple learned it. This was not considered the great privilege of his time, and it was certainly an excellence that had all the power of novelty in the hearing of Hope Rossiter. 
               It was manifestly Kensett's business to preach the goodness of God-the goodness which leads to repentance. The warmth of his sympathies, and his apprehensions of the divine beauty qualified him for such preaching. 
               There was an energy in his speech that won the hearts of those who were waiting for such a gospel. He never presented himself to his hearers; he gave them truth instead; lustrous as an angel was truth under his presentation, and his words were verily angels, ascending and descending, bringing earth and heaven together. To many an ear his voice was like the deep roll of that great sea which spreads between eternity and time. To many a soul his voice was the spirit's own voice entreating, "Oh do not the abominable thing which I hate," assuring, "If any man will open unto me I will come in and sup with him and he with me." Those who listened to his prayers were certain that though, for them, the Hearer of prayer might be in a far country, to the youth who prayed, he was very near, even at hand. 
               There was something in all this that the family in the parsonage could receive and understand in their own way. Mr. Rossiter anticipated the time when a more scholastic training and a severer taste should approach this utterance, so full of promise, to his own standard of pulpit oratory; perceiving not that the flower is not perfected from having its leaves clipped to uniformity of shape and size; he was finding fault precisely with that which individualized Kensett, and would in maturer years prove his crowning gift and peculiar power. 
               Miss Gladstone understood this, and that the life-blood must flow in its appointed channels, and not in artificial ones, if the life would be a living one. It was precisely for what he had to give in the direct method of his own best tendencies, that she most prized, and could best prophecy for Kensett. 
               Mrs. Rossiter and Maud Saltonstall both listened to him as to their teacher. He had the words of life; he had learned them in the shadow of death; youth, though he was, he could speak them to the woman's heart, and the young girl's understanding, for he spoke to them of Christ who suffered the anointing of his feet; who loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus, who wept over his dead friend, who prayed in solitude, who was tempted forty days in the wilderness. 
               Well as these all prized him, feeble was the impression made upon their minds when compared with that made on the mind of Hope. She had followed Kensett, and this is to say that she had trodden away into a land new and strange to her. This heaven, this earth, was a new heaven and a new earth-the voice was not an echo from the past, but a tone of the "living present," and it thrilled her. In Kensett's hands the Scriptures were the gospel of light and love; in Mr. Stanton's, they were death warrants, and gave uncertain prospects of reprieve. 
               Hope, in this listening, could not help herself, and this she had now come to regard as one part of the deadly mischief done. She could not help herself. All of her nature that had been neglected, unoccupied, kept out of sight, responded to this call, which his voice and words made when occupied with the sacred vessels of his sacred calling. For this reason, because she was so ill-known to herself, she was now startled when she found how she had been beguiled to listen to his preaching. Her heart and mind, she discovered, were in direct antagonism. As a matter of necessity, all that peculiar training to which her intellect had been subjected could not avail her heart in its blind struggle. She was full of fears and doubts, surprises, questionings. It was such a struggle as no one, to whom she could have disburdened herself, would have in the least understood. She knew this, and in her own way accounted for the fact. 
               All she could do was to fall back on Mr. Stanton and her own intellectual power, and deliver her heart from its thraldom. There could be no half-work in this. Judgment must begin at her own door. She must at any cost regain herself, and deliver her soul from the delusion and the fascination which was none the less a high crime, she determined, when listening with joy to Kensett's prayers and praising, than when in anguish and dismay she listened to his for other speaking. Who scouts at this? If the union of Hope Rossiter's mind and heart could, at this epoch of her life have consummated, a being fit for any holy and great work was she. But she knew literally nothing of what love was, or should be, in its growth and final development. The conflict that was induced between her head and heart in the endeavor to fuse into one her own theology, and Kensett's interpretation of the gospel, was now at an end. The awful mystery's key was in her hand-the mystery itself revealed before her. 
               So she walked among the clouds, looking forward with foreboding to the on-rolling darkness; nor knew how near to her the heavenly calm and brightness were. 
             
             
                
               XLIV. SATURDAY AFTERNOON. 
               ONE day Hope sat in her room, her books as usual open before her; her thoughts, as continually of late, wandering far away from them. It was become a difficult thing for her to control her thoughts. Suddenly the solitude was broken; the door opened or was burst open, without a warning, and Maud ran in. Dancing up to Hope, as it seemed in the recklessness of her delight, she threw her arm, bared to the elbow, across the book Hope seemed to be reading. 
               Maud was quite beyond the reach of such a look as broke upon her from Hope's astonished eyes; she saw neither surprise nor displeasure-lifting her presumptuous arm, she actually flung it around Hope's neck, and by the act brought her face so near you would have thought the red lips would take a liberty with the pale face of Hope Rossiter, But they did not. 
               "It wouldn't be foolish," began Maud, as if to preface the way for her invitation by this assurance, for it was spoken as an assurance, not as an expostulation; "don't study always. We are going to walk in the woods, and Miss Gladstone wants you, and your dear mother says yes. Now! will you go?" 
               During the moment of delay that occurred in the answer, Maud heard Hope's consent, and had lived the happiest day of her whole life. The blessed of the earth, the wise ones who do not despise their Maker's gifts (which capacitate for happiness,) are, in truth, Methusalahs, each one of them. You must not count their years by numbering their days-a life is not long or short according to the figures on the gravestone. Time is the clumsy tool with which stupidity and dulness vexes its poor soul. The true worker, how can he but smile at the laudation of his worshippers? When it comes to be a question with him, does he not require an eternity for the realization of his grandest ideal? Earth and her generations are but preparations for the great result. And for this, is the infinite God long-suffering and full of mercy! 
               To go back to a moment and a breath! Yet it is not the step from the sublime to the low; only from infinite to finite. 
               "Not to-day, I think," said Hope Rossiter, in a subdued voice, a little tremulous. Some fear was in her heart; she withdrew Maud's arm from her neck, but it was in her to redeem the act from cruelty, for she held Maud's hand in hers, and she looked at the curious adorning of that slender wrist; felt also the strong and rapid beating of the pulse. Though that is neither here nor there. 
               This adornment was a ribbon to which were attached some trifles cut from wood. 
               Maud's eyes followed Hope's, and fixed on the poor bracelet. She forgot her errand for a moment; some new delight it was that shone from her face, and spoke in her voice. 
               "He would make one for you too. Would you wear it?" 
               "Who made it?" asked Hope. Her countenance changed much. It betrayed the greatness of the effort with which she asked the question. But Maud did not perceive it. 
               "Mr. Kensett," said Maud; "would you wear one?" she asked with authority-as good as a promise was in the voice-if Hope would say yes, she should have a bracelet too, beyond a doubt. 
               But Hope said, rather severely, very coldly, just because she felt within her troubled heart quite the reverse of severity and coldness: 
               "I should be very sorry if Mr. Kensett wasted his time in producing such a plaything as that for me." 
               Her words brought a warmer glow into Maud's cheek than the flush of happiness. She retreated a step or two from Hope, then repeated her invitation; there was a marked difference in the form of its first and its second presentation. 
               "And so you will not go?" 
               "I have no time," said Hope. And Maud needed no assurance that further argument would be useless. Yet Maud did not refrain from using all the entreaty with which she had come furnished; though hardly less than an angel could have presented it so urgently, so guilelessly, under the circumstances. Her own joy had lifted her to angelic heights that day, so that she should not perceive that which could merely have afflicted her. 
               "But this is Saturday afternoon!" that word had not its rightful force with Hope; she listened silently, so Maud went on, "And you want to get yourself ready for Sunday, you know. You don't understand about the woods-you've not tried them for that. Mr. Kensett said we would be all the better prepared for to-morrow if we went. We are going to a place that I found out for myself. The moss is thick there, and the branches cross above you, like a roof, overhead. Oh come! it is just the place for you. Perhaps you will find a sermon all written there. I know that Archibald goes there to study sometimes. He thanked me for showing him the place. Oh, come!" 
               Hope Rossiter looked away from the entreating face, turned away from the entreating voice. Maud was actually striving with her! What was this? Maud had actually brought before the eyes of Hope a vision of nature such as she had never had before, and Maud was basing her entreaty on Kensett. His pleasure in the place-his wish that she should go. 
               She bade the bright, strange vision begone. As if fearful that this voice might persuade her, she was peremptory. Away from the fair prospect she turned-she repeated her decision-she returned to her studies. She gave no sign when Maud said: 
               "I am so sorry," and went away. 
               But was the composure of Hope's face real? Why did she rise and bolt the door when Maud closed it behind her? Was she fearful of further molestation? 
               When Maud turned reluctantly away from her, and went out of the room, had Hope Rossiter such control over her thoughts that they did not follow after her-? She might refuse to go, but her thoughts rebelled against restriction; they stayed not to ask permission. Evil company they chose, but she could not prevent it. 
               Was not this proof sufficient, since the books could not control them, that they had, for that day at least, nothing to give that could meet her necessities? Was not her own heart the best law for her when all things invited her forth, and nothing but her tyrannous will detained her? Ah, she answered herself-painful the strife might prove, but she had only to resist the devil, and he would flee from her! 
               The resistance was a fearful strife. It was conducted with mortal agony. 
             
             
                
               XLV. A LITTLE FIRE-AND A GREAT MATTER. 
               HOPE looked from her window, she was past her own control-she looked, knowing that she should see Miss Gladstone and Maud Saltonstall on their way across the garden and the field. She did see them-her eyes followed them. She saw how for very joy Maud failed to restrain her steps to the staid and sober grace of Miss Gladstone's movements. She saw Archibald Kensett presently emerge from the garden, and rapidly follow them down the lane. She saw him, as he went on hurriedly, take off his hat and lift his hair from his forehead. She saw him with his face upturned to the blue sky as he walked. She beheld him as he approached Miss Gladstone, who, to the whole household's apprehension, stood towards him in the relation of a mother. She observed that Maud was the first aware of his approach, and how she waited for him until he came near, and then they walked on side by side. Oh temptation! Oh idleness and sin! 
                
               But what followed Hope Rossiter could neither tell nor know. It was now later in the day, but what had happened? She knew not-she was lying on the floor-she was alone. What had chanced? She lifted up herself, and gazed about in amazement. What had happened? She was looking from the window; slowly she recalled the point. They were walking in the field towards the woods; the field was open to the sunlight; the shadow of the wood was on it now. She could recall nothing further than those three walking in the field; there was nothing further to recall. But even these few bare recollections occasioned her pain, and anguish, and weariness. For some great change had passed over her that terrified her. What change? What was it that had happened? Strangely enough, at this time she recalled the words of which Kensett had made use on the last occasion of his public prayer, when he had besought that in purity of heart, in steadfastness of holy purpose, in lowliness, and meekness, he, and those for whom he prayed, might be partakers of the divine nature, and thus find, even according to Christ's assurance, rest to the soul. 
               Remote from her as this union with the divine nature had actually been, never till now had she a just apprehension of the remoteness. A tumult and strife in her soul, over which one voice alone might command "peace," had arisen. She was but beginning to perceive herself as she had really ever been, in a position which, with all her experience, she had never realized, and she believed that the condition was a new, and not an old one. She traced it to the cause of that dire influence which she believed had infected the whole house. The enemy of souls had found for himself an agent-willing and capable, or unconscious and capable-had chosen here even in this stronghold of sanctity and faith, in the wantonness of diabolic daring had chosen this place for his attack, and believers for victims. . . . For victims! On her knees, before her table, walking through her room, she thought of these things; horror and amazement possessing her soul. But Mr. Stanton was alive! She caught at the thought of him as one clutches the flood in drowning. He was strong. He was unflinching. . . . Whatever good results could follow a direct utterance of his convictions, and his bold requirements, such requirements as he should conceive most proper in the case, Hope was certain of receiving. There would at least be no room for uncertainty and indecision, when she had made all known to him. Whatever he might counsel, she had confidence to follow it. Suffering and torture were not what she feared. She was in a condition to derive the whole advantage that can exist in the Romish system of self-persecution; had self-torture been his prescription, she would have obeyed it dauntlessly. 
               While praying, thinking over these things, close against the door a folded bit of paper was lying, still, without a flutter; Hope picked it up to lay upon the table, but it was none of hers, and she said it was not when she held it in her hand. It was Mr. Kensett's writing, and she read it. There was a poem transcribed on either side of the narrow strip of paper. For the singularity of their juxtaposition, and the part they were made to bear in the events of this story, they are given in this place. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "The Character of a Happy Life. 
                            
                              "How happy is he born and taught, 
                              That serveth not another's will; 
                              Whose armor is his honest thought, 
                              And simple truth his utmost skill. 
                            
                            
                              "Whose passions not his master's are, 
                              Whose soul is still prepared for death, 
                              Untied unto the worldly care, 
                              Of public fame or private breath. 
                            
                            
                              "Who envies none that chance doth raise, 
                              Or vice; who never understood 
                              How deepest wounds are given by praise; 
                              Nor rules of state, but rules of good. 
                            
                            
                              "Who hath his life from rumours freed, 
                              Whose conscience is his strong retreat; 
                              Whose state can neither flatterers feed, 
                              Nor ruin make oppressors great. 
                            
                            
                            
                              "Who God doth late and early pray, 
                              More of his grace than gifts to lend; 
                              And entertains the harmless day 
                              With a religious book or friend. 
                            
                            
                              "This man is freed from servile bands] 
                              Of hope to rise, or fear to fall; 
                              Lord of himself, though not of lands, 
                              And having nothing, yet hath all." 
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               This was well-was beautiful; but, on the reverse of the copy, Hope read what was certainly quite a different strain. Imagine how she read it. Every moment her mistake was becoming more terrible in its quality; bade fair to be more tragic in its consequences. If she rose not up to be the deliverer of Kensett, who beside beheld his danger? and who else could avert his ruin? For these words also were his handwriting, and these with deliberation and intent he had written out-for whom? There was no caption to the verses, but elsewhere they appear under the head of 
                     The Passionate Pilgrim to His Love.
                   The lines were copied entire. 
               
                   
                     "Come, live with me, and be my love, 
                     And we will all the pleasures prove 
                     That valleys, groves, and hills, and fields, 
                     Woods, or steepy mountains yields. 
                  
                   
                     "And we will sit upon the rocks, 
                     Seeing the shepherds feed their flocks, 
                     By shallow rivers, to whose falls 
                     Melodious birds sing madrigals. 
                  
                   
                     "And I will make thee beds of roses, 
                     And a thousand fragrant posies; 
                     A cap of flowers and a kirtle 
                     Embroidered all with leaves of myrtle: 
                  
                   
                     "A gown made of the finest wool, 
                     Which from our pretty lambs we pull; 
                     Fair lined slippers for the cold, 
                     With buckles of the purest gold: 
                  
                  
                   
                     "A belt of straw, and ivy buds 
                     With coral clasps, and amber studs! 
                     And if these pleasures may thee move, 
                     Come live with me, and be my love. 
                  
                   
                     "The shepherd-swains shall dance and sing, 
                     For thy delight each May-morning; 
                     If these delights thy mind may move, 
                     Then live with me and be my love." 
                  
                
               Think how Hope Rossiter could read verses like these! How she listened to the response her heart made to their entreaty! 
               Maud came up into Hope's room again before Hope had left it. She had no welcome there, albeit she brought in with her something of the spirit of the day; struck, as it seemed, by the chary welcome she received, Maud did not hesitate or delay in explaining her re-appearance. 
               "Hope," said she, looking about somewhat anxiously, "did I leave a little paper here-written on?" 
               Hope took the verses from the table, and without speaking, gave them to Maud. 
               "Did you read it?" asked Maud. 
               "Yes." 
               "What, both?" she said, while her face seemed actually luminous with pleasure. 
               "Yes." 
               "So different they are; but both so sweet! Archie said that I reminded him of one of them, and Miss Gladstone of the other. They had almost gone out of his mind. I asked him to tell me of them, and he did, and then he wrote them down so I could have them. But if you would like them to keep for a while, Hope, you may." 
               "No, thank you. I do not care for them." 
               "But they are very sweet, though. Some time I will ask Archie to repeat that about the shepherd to you." 
               "It would afford no pleasure to hear Mr. Kensett reciting such words to me," said Hope. Alas for her! she would have gone with him to the world's end, to have heard him repeat those verses, with a meaning in her ear; yet it was no falsehood that she said. It was not her true, it was her tempted self that had read these verses in the way that she had read them. 
               "He had painted one picture for me before-now I have these two. And they are so pleasant to have in sight! Oh, Hope, there is nothing wrong, is there, about it? it is like the pictures we can see from the windows any bright day, only there are figures in these. I would so like to see a shepherd!" 
               "Did you tell him so?" asked Hope, in spite of herself. 
               "Yes," answered Maud, well pleased to hear the question; now resting herself against the arm of a high-back chair. 
               "And he said-what was it he said-oh!-but it was so foolish-forgive me, Hope, it makes me laugh: he said the shepherd would be glad to see me too. Then,"-and her merriment died away because of her own recollection, and not all on account of Hope's grave look-"I told him, after all, I should rather see Lady Jane." 
               "What did he say to that?" demanded Hope Rossiter. 
               "He said-he said that we should be kind to each other, both so far away from home, and that he-he honored, that was the very word, I recollect, for it sounded so strange to me, honored me all the more that I longed sometimes for what I had in my own home." 
               "It is likely, however," said Hope, "that you would place a higher value on your father and your mother than on a dumb beast, and you would long more to see them than a horse." 
               "Yes, you say true. But I do not think of Lady Jane as I would of a dumb beast. She is more like fire and the wind. Dear Lady Jane!" 
               "You will see her again," said Hope; her assurance had almost the sound of consolation; as an expression of sympathy pathy Maud did receive it, but a quicker ear would have detected other meaning in the tone. 
               "I trust I shall," said-Maud; "it maybe long first. I would not go yet, if I could. I have so much to do before I go." 
               "And I also have much to do," said Hope, half turning away from Maud, and then Maud, with her verses, was gone. But what had Hope to do? nothing beyond a continuation of that survey of the household she had so often made of late: renewed and painful observation of every character beneath her father's roof: fresh investigation of the purpose she had formed. For there was manifestly but one duty devolving on her now; that was not acquirement, but dispossession. 
             
             
                
               XLVI. MAN AND WOMAN. 
               MR. STANTON would be in town the next day. It was the comfort derivable from this thought that gave sleep to Hope Rossiter's eyes that night. She would have occasion, as she invariably had, to speak with him in private. When he came he had always many things to say to her; much concerning what he had read, what thought, since they last met, mutual progress to compare, in matters of spiritual concernment; these things they habitually considered at such meetings. 
               It was a coincidence, that while this purpose of confiding in him was giving some degree of composure to her mind, another purpose, having a parallel drift, was occasioning some stir among the meditations of Mr. Stanton. The time had come, when his own peace of mind required that he should ascertain the exact nature of his relation towards Hope Rossiter. And he had concluded that the occasion which called him to the town to-morrow should have a double import, and thus be doubly sacred. It was a meeting for prayer with his brethren in the ministry, that was to be holden on the morrow: what time more meet than this for making known the wants of his entire being? 
               Full two hours before the time he had intended to set out for Mr. Rossiter's church, Mr. Stanton had his horse saddled, and the steed stood pawing the ground before his door. And then the clergyman's frame of mind being adverse to serene meditations and calm reflections, he wisely determined to set out without delay on his brief journey. There was no one to observe it, but Mr. Stanton was in no common frame of mind that afternoon. He sang some strains of the liveliest hymn he knew, as he went on his way, and did not check his steed when the animal seemed disposed to keep time to the music. Mr. Stanton never looked so well before. His comely suit of black was his ordination suit, but the man that wore it certainly did set it off to far better than usual advantage. His face, too, was informed with a fine sentiment, which could not entirely, least of all now, when he was alone, be disguised. His eyes had in them a mild light that looked beneficence, and if he prayed that day, his voice would certainly appeal to an absolute Friend and Father, not to an angry Judge. He would not be so apt to deprecate wrath, as to invite the Spirit, whose fruit is perfect love, that day. 
               Long before the time appointed for the clerical meeting, he arrived at the parsonage. Two hours he was closeted with Mr. Rossiter before they set out for the church. In this fact was nothing unusual, but that was an unusual subject which the two divines discussed. 
               With gladness Mr. Rossiter listened to his former student, while he made confession of the desire of his heart; and not having those apprehensions which were new even to Mr. Stanton, and therefore ill-concealed, he made himself tranquilly joyous over the prospect of the projected suit. For Stanton, both on account of what he was, and of what he bade fair to be, was dear to the heart of the father of Hope Rossiter. 
               That same day, in Mr. Rossiter's study, whither Hope had been summoned by her father, safe there from Maud's intrusion, and every other, the strong voice of Jerome Stanton fell into a tremulous whisper, and he told her of his love-asked her to be his partner, and his friend through life. 
               Hope Rossiter listened in silence to his speaking; but, while she listened, far other pleading struggled with his, in her thought. He was no "passionate pilgrim" setting before her heart all sensuous delights, uttering impassioned entreaties that she would dwell with him, and be his love, promising such riches as worldly maidens covet. That his asking and his vows should seem cold in the contrast, and poor, and meagre, was strange as it was true, to Hope; and not only so to her, but also sinful. Why should she, if not under some malign influence that threatened evil to her soul, why should she covet any other utterance of love than that she heard? She knew that his voice trembled-she saw how serious an affair his love was with Mr. Stanton, for his face betrayed his emotion, as well as his voice-all honor and dignity, such as at this moment she felt no worthiness to share, should be the portion of his wife. But her heart was cold; it had not the old friendly feeling towards him-she was divided against herself. Her reason told her that her best and wisest counsellor was before her, and her will resolved on trusting all to him, even the burden that weighed on her so terribly, but her heart was cast out of the counsel as a betrayed and ruined thing. Her heart, that, even while he spoke, was informing all his words with Kensett's accent, and acknowledging that to hear him speaking thus to her, in Mr. Stanton's stead, were better than all things the gods, or fate, or fortune could bestow. 
               She was slow in answering Mr. Stanton. He thought, as he looked upon her, that she was in some perplexity, as if she had not well understood him; though it was difficult for him to see that this could be the case; he had spoken his mind so plainly, and, led on by his own eloquence, so completely. 
               It was indeed an astonishment to Hope that she should listen as she did to him. That what he said should have at one moment so familiar, and at another so strange, a sound. He had so often been her helper. She had learned to trust so much in him; to look to him with so much confidence, as the expounder of all that was dark and difficult to her. It was her heart's wilfulness that occasioned the bewilderment; though despised and rejected for its pleading, her heart would still be heard. 
               She has heard Archibald Kensett discourse of love divine, and it was a more intelligible explication of human love, than this utterance of love from Mr. Stanton's lips. Still she only hovered about the apprehension of this truth. She did not boldly seize it, and interpret it with her own power. In its suggestion it remained-unfolded. 
               Like a vision, hardly seen and gone, thought of Kensett came and went. And now it was not love, it was merely conscience that urged her to speak. 
               And yet, this stern conscience, this invulnerable sense of duty, as she would have named it, was nothing more, oh friend, than the demand her heart made for a champion! She knew not what was passing in the holy place of her own being. The veil hid from her eyes that which did most nearly concern her. Ignorantly she worshipped an unknown God. She only felt the additional strength, the reviving when "conscience," whose stern voice she fancied she recognized, spoke to her, and she answered strongly and readily-here am I. 
               So, she now endeavored to speak as became her, and as he deserved to hear. Her first words drew Stanton to her side, for he had walked away from her, till she should speak, had been patient with the long hesitation, and without suspicion of the difficulty she found in answering him. 
               Her reply did not bear principally on his suit, as she had intended. He could only make of it that she had not rejected him, but that she would have him understand her as worthy of rejection. Hurriedly she spoke; he did not recognize Hope either in the voice or manner of her speaking 
               "I must explain," she said, "something has occurred that needs to be explained. I am not what you think, not what I was a week ago, Mr. Stanton." She paused here, and the deep trouble that came out in her words was not now unshared. "There is no one but you to whom I can speak of it. I waited until you should come, I cannot tell you with what anxiety. If you had not asked me, I should have sought you. I say there is no one in the house of whom I could ask counsel. Do you believe anything in witchcraft? Mr. Stanton, what is a witch?". 
               It was no trifling thing to hear Hope Rossiter thus speaking. The burden of her trouble and anxiety fell on him with the question. He felt it. He felt that his most direct and solemn answer was required. He must waive his own demand, that he might answer hers. His happiness might be at stake, but Mr. Stanton saw that more than happiness was dependent on the issue of this interview. 
               He answered, "I can but employ the words of others; 'the person who knowingly, or willingly, doth obtain of the devil, or of any other besides the true God, an ability to do, or know strange things which he cannot by his own human ability arrive at, is a witch.'" 
               "It may be of another than the evil one, that the power is derived?" asked Hope Rossiter with a shudder. 
               "Yes, there is spiritual 'wickedness in high places,' which we can neither define or localize. The father of all evil has many a minister and servant, spirits of darkness, who do his work. They may appear as his emisaries." 
               "Appear how, Mr. Stanton?" 
               "To captivate through some form of beauty, or strange novelty, or semblance of goodness, or in the communication of strong delusions. The methods are varied, as the forms are of mind and character employed as his agents." 
               "For instance, Mr. Stanton, you observe in me," exclaimed Hope, but having spoken thus far she stopped short. It was to her voice, her countenance, rather than her words, to which Jerome Stanton responded, "Hope Rossiter!" 
               In spite of his usually guarded speech, this exclamation escaped the clergyman's lips, and the sound, so full of anguish and amazement was it, shook the resolution, but not the purpose, of Hope. 
               "Listen to me," she said, speaking hurriedly; so low she spoke that an attention less excited than Mr. Stanton's could hardly have caught the words. "I only ask your confidence, your hearing. You can do nothing more, you can give me nothing more now. This is not the house it was when you were here. I must answer what you have asked of me by telling you all. You will not ask anything more when you have heard. But what I tell you, let it remain only with you. If God requires of us sacrifice, He will give us strength to offer it. Listen. Since that unfortunate child came here, I cannot tell how it is, but everything is changed. Look at her; she seems simple and good, but there is something at work. Not one of our minds but has been influenced, but has been changed, since she came here. Think how much I trust you; but you have trusted even more to me! I began to observe it first in mother; and that was some time ago; and then in father; but most of all, I have seen it and felt it in myself, in many ways. My mind wanders, I cannot control my thoughts, I cannot concentrate them. I am wretched when I follow my inclination and leave my precious books, yet I am continually tempted to leave them. I cannot study, everything is changed with others as well as myself. Mr. Kensett, is he not fallen from the grace that led him in your path? His speech sounds like blasphemy to me, and she who sleeps while wise men preach, listens to him, while he talks in an unknown tongue, as if all were clear to her." 
               Here Hope paused. Mr. Stanton did not speak, but waited for her to go on; looking straight at him meanwhile, and her speech told that her heart was in her words, she proceeded: 
               "But for yesterday I might never have told you of this. It may be too great a confidence, but who can help me, if not you? Yet I feel vain is the help of man." 
                
               Mr. Stanton listened to this to the end; not without tears, which he vainly tried to restrain, did he listen; not without an agitation such as had never shaken his soul before. Whatever the actual foundation of Hope's fears and suspicions might be, they were thoroughly real for her. She might 
                     be be
                     be
                   deluded, but the anxiety, the agony of the delusion, there could be no mistaking. 
               He did not question the subject in his mind now; with the appeal that she had made to him, he had to do. 
               "I understand that you trust me with the highest confidence you could bestow, or I receive. I stand in the relation of all that should protect and aid you, until the fearful tyranny, of which you speak, be overpast, or ascertained." 
               "Yes," she said. 
               "You shall not find me wanting." The strong man, the protector, the lover, spoke now. "It is the right I coveted, and asked," he continued. "With you I am aware that it might be the cruelty of injustice to speak of this to others. Utter it not beyond this hour and place. God has opened your eyes to danger. You have asked human counsel? Will you have it?" Here he paused a moment. "Consider then," he resumed, "if it be not your duty to free yourself altogether from the dominion of this young unfortunate, whom you deem employed to try you in this manner. If you were removed hence, who seem to be-I infer it from the fact that you are what you are-the principal excitant, (since you are first aroused by it,) of her baneful possession, the spirit, other means being employed, might be made to depart from her. I believe that the possession, if real, is but temporary; that it is a device of Satan for betraying, from a high calling, one to whom the Lord has been very gracious in teaching the knowledge of His ways, and whom, doubtless, He is preparing for some work which shall redound to his glory by the fierceness of the trial, and the greatness of the victory. He scourgeth every son whom He receiveth. If we are ever to trust the goodness of His providence, that it both can and will supply present occasions of need, let us do so in this case. Oh, let us walk like children before our Heavenly Father." 
               He had struck to the root of the matter in his search for the explanation of this visitation; but he had not, to Hope's thinking, been equally fortunate in the counsel he offered. Hope thought that she perceived the meaning thus vaguely expressed; and as if to escape a new snare laid for her, said hastily: 
               "That can in nowise be, Mr. Stanton. Would it befit me, would it become a Christian character to desert this house at such a time? It is not my fall and ruin alone that has been attempted. I would sooner stay and share the ruin, than fly when flight were but desertion. And methinks it were not a wise physician who would remove one of the infected, while the principle of the contagion was allowed to continue. You are without the bounds of this distress; remain without, I pray you." 
               If love had spoken through Mr. Stanton's fear before, it spoke now through his generosity and courage. 
               "Whatever your fate may be," he said, "it is a fate that I must share. I besought you to share my fortune; suffer me to share your fate. If your cup is one of sorrow, be the dregs of that cup mine!" 
               He said this with the deep and solemn enthusiasm of a strong, stern character, whom ordinary occasions did in no degree reveal. But this occasion was quite great enough to reveal it, because his heart was concerned in the result. And while he spoke thus, Stanton drew yet nearer to Hope; he recalled her father's words to him that day, and Hope's own words, and the treasure he sought was enhanced with every moment of doubt that he endured. Indeed he would protect her; the inward intent proclaimed itself in the outward motion; with his strong arm he drew her nearer to him, and held her, as if he would never let her go. 
                
               But, by an effort so swift and violent as was only possible with Hope Rossiter in a moment of frenzy like this, she freed herself from him, and stood up and apart, her face, a moment ago, pale with dread, glowing now with an astonishment that had no rapture in it. This was her chosen spiritual leader! A man losing all sense of his duty and danger, for the mere love of her! Would Kensett have done so? 
               Her heart beat so wildly that though she essayed to do it, she could not speak. Never had her brain and being clashed in a tumult at once so inexplicable, so uncontrolable, as now. A suspicion and a fear seemed to enter Mr. Stanton's mind as he looked at her; but he must make reply, and he thought that he knew how to answer her; he said, holding her attention by the firmness of his voice: 
               "It may seem cruel to urge this point now, but when you think upon it, I feel you will not say that it is so; if, indeed, I have anything to do in this matter, Miss Rossiter, answer me distinctly and forever. If this calamity, which you deem impending, were removed, would you give me a denial? Put me not off with a silence on that point; I could not understand it. To doubt-that were harder to endure than your most decided rejection. Whatever you may feel, do me the justice to let me know. You will not leave your home for mine, under the present circumstances; I urge you not; but, do you return my love? I dare not tell you how I love you; you would not hear it patiently now. Am I anything to you besides a teacher?" 
               Instead of answering him, Hope Rossiter sat down and wept. Stanton wisely let her weep; he could not have done better. Many things he had learned since she closed that study door behind her; he had heard more than her confession; he had learned that his own love was something beside mere respect for talent, industry, good looks, and good behavior. That it was a sentiment, which, ignorant as he had been of the fact, had given a coloring to every aspiration of his nature. He had envied the very devil, while she stood confessing her helpless subjugation to an alien and evil power. He had been stirred up in that interview to a frenzy and fury which, in after times, he only recognized as the spirit of a battle of the Lord! Stirred up as a tiger, to fight in her cause, no matter where ruin fell, so it were averted from her head. Fain would he have thrown himself upon his knees before her; he had never knelt till now, save to God only; though he stood upright, nevertheless, in all, save to her sight, he was grovelling at her feet. Powerless, subdued, a crying girl she seemed, but he was helpless in her hands, and-could only wait her time. Hope rose at length, for when she became aware of the silence of the room she made a violent effort, and controlled the tumult that but now overwhelmed her. He waited till she should speak. 
               She lifted her head; made no concealment of the torrent of tears that had fallen. He thought no more of the good wife-for the congregation. The stern grace and courage of this act, brought him still lower before her. But he shuddered as he felt the truth; for what strange, new, irresistible influence was this that controlled, and seemed to madden him? not for a moment did he confound it with the sentiment that brought him to speak with her in that place, sacred to holy thoughts, and labors, and prayer. And he was right in this-his sentiment had developed itself into a passion; that passion possessed him, and "the face of all the world was changed." What reason had he to anticipate a more entire possession than this? or subjugation to any other conqueror? 
               "Mr. Stanton," said Hope, speaking now in her usual clear and quiet voice-he held his breath to hear what she should say; "you are to remain here over night, sir. You must do so. Let nothing that has passed between us here go farther." 
               "I obey you," he said: he only hoped that she might understand how utterly her will was become his law. 
               "I will see you then, in the morning," she continued. 
                
               "In the morning," he repeated. She might go on and appoint the hour; he was only mechanism in her hands. But instead of speaking further, she now got up and left the room. He watched her going; and he started, when she closed the door behind her, with a spasmodic gesture; and he looked around him when she was gone, as if he wakened from a troubled vision of the night. Started, awake now, but a silken thread might draw him. In every age immortal Hercules sits at his distaff, spinning. 
             
             
                
               XLVII. FOUND WANTING. 
               THERE was no rest for Mr. Stanton when she had left the room. The four walls of the study seemed to suffocate him. He had fallen that day; it was a spiritual fall, and he went out of the study from the presence of Mr. Rossiter, which there seemed accusingly to confront him-as he had never gone before-because the peace and sanctity of the place were beyond his endurance. Nothing, of all Hope had confided to his keeping, seemed half so strange as the change that had transpired in himself that day. He had fallen from his equanimity to a perfectly human level, where he had been disturbed as a house by the convulsion of an earthquake. He had experienced what he had never read or heard of, all the sudden shiftings from hope to despair, and from despair to doubt, while he waited for the answer of a girl to a question which was propounded with unshaken confidence in his own authority to command the answer he would have. 
               He had been brought to a knowledge of an unguessed truth concerning man's dependence on the harmony of human relations for human joy. He had been brought into a closer contact than ever before with the present and the mortal. It was a lesson worth the learning, that the occasion furnished. Learned well, he could not avoid being a better, wiser man, a more efficient teacher, in all future time. But he was afraid of it-he suspected it. Had he chosen his deliverance at that juncture, a dark saying could never have issued from his lips again. He might have gone forth to work a new work in the land. He might have taught the hungering and thirsting the divine "correspondence" that exists between mortal and immortal growth, development, and destiny. He might have introduced them in reality to the freedom they sought. And even if the men of his time had rejected him, since a great man must of necessity precede his day, his teaching would still have been a gift to the ages. So near he came to being really, what they mistook him already to be, a teacher and a benefactor in his generation! 
               But Mr. Stanton chose to look upon himself as having fallen. So he had fallen! How shall I compute the distance? Then he made all haste to climb again into the poverty of his solitary isolation, ignorant of the fact, that his voice, projected through the atmosphere surrounding him, could scarcely come to the multitude below as it left him. The law-giver descended from Mount Sinai to a level with the multitude, for whom he came commissioned. Ignorant, that when in Mr. Rossiter's study, he had come down, drawn by the attraction of gravitation, and heart stood bared confronting heart, he had derogated not one solitary degree from his own proper height. He had some things to learn yet. 
               Whether it was good for him, or otherwise, he was called away abruptly from these solitary reflections, to some duty pertaining to his avocation; he carried not his entire self, but his ministerial self into that occupation, and performed it incompletely, as men always do when their heart is divided against itself. 
             
             
                
               XLVIII. THE EVENING WORK. 
               AT twilight the family assembled, according to their habit, in the parlor, for worship. They were all there: the labors of the day were done; they were entering on the night. These devotions usually occupied an hour, and the short evenings were spent frequently together; together invariably when the young clergyman was at the parsonage. Mr. Stanton, according to Hope's request, was to pass the night with them-and he had yet an evening's work before him-let us see him fairly through it. 
               When Miss Gladstone entered, and took the chair near the window, he sat down next her, quite sure that the foot-bench between them would be occupied by Maud Saltonstall. He was right. Maud immediately came in, followed by Kensett, and then Mr. Rossiter opened the big bible, turned to his place, and began to read. Mr. Stanton had now lost sight of himself; he had other than usual purposes of observation to satisfy, and he was sufficient for them. He had now to prove to his own satisfaction, the grave charge of no less a person than Hope Rossiter. And he was on the alert. 
               He had never much to say to Maud. They had never understood each other well. While the singing school was under Mr. Stanton's charge, she took no interest in it-she would learn nothing of him. The fact was, he could teach her nothing that she would be likely yet to appreciate. Kensett sett, who had in some way acquired a knowledge of musical notes and characters, gave her all the insight that was communicated to her in this direction. Miss Gladstone had reserved her teaching for some future day. Aided by Kensett, she had learned the notes so well that they were as intelligible to her as the letters of the alphabet. She could read an air at sight as she would read a printed paragraph. Dear as music might be to her, she had resorted to every expedient to escape Mr. Stanton's tutelage, and had succeeded in absenting herself from the school by a variety of pretexts that reflected great credit, she thought, on her ingenuity, until Miss Gladstone uttered a word of comment, which was not commendatory. After this, Maud was invariably an attendant on his teaching, but he had never heard her sing. 
               To-night, when the hymn was read and begun, in the straightforward, business-like tone of Mr. Rossiter, all voices joined in it with a heartiness that showed at least a unity of purpose. Maud's voice had of late been quite a feature in the family worship, but on this night it rose high above the rest, and took its place, as if by right, by the side of the rich strong voice of Kensett. Was it the influence of yesterday that lingered with her still? or the presence of Mr. Stanton, and recollection of the gentle expostulation of Mrs. Grace Rossiter, who had told her that he really believed she had no voice for singing? No matter what cause-like the steady sailing of birds along a bright morning's unruffled sea of air, unfluttering, unbroken, was her voice. Unconscious of itself, or conscious, apparently, only in the unsounded depths of its joy, the voice went forth and wandered through the room, and filled it with its cadences. Mrs. Rossiter stopped short in her singing, and kept time with Maud's music, while she gazed with a hidden rapture on the girl, and worshipped through Maud's praising. 
               Though she never forgot herself so far as not to pause until Mr. Rossiter had opened each successive verse, when it was once opened, all restraint was gone; Maud was away beyond the fear or suspicion of control, singing indeed from her heart, and making melody. 
               Of course no one thought of offering a comment on the service she had rendered. Nothing so out of place, so ill-timed, could occur there; but immediately after the closing prayer,-not that he felt it so needful to express his admiration, but because he feared she would go out as she had come in, with Mr. Kensett, who was about leaving the room-Mr. Stanton turned to Maud, and said: 
               "You love to sing, then, after all. You sing in earnest," and then, "as the birds do." An unusual flight for him. It was these last words that had the power to detain her there with him, while, one by one, the family went away. 
               "They taught me how," she said, turning towards him, glad that she had pleased him, for she believed she had. 
               "Did you hear the bird in the vine?" asked he, moving towards the window, which was quite covered by the climbing honeysuckle. 
               "That is the reason I sat here to-night," said Maud. "Miss Gladstone and I always sit here when we sing in this room. I was on the watch for him; he has a nest just outside.... It is very pleasant." She broke into a happy laugh just here that seemed only the voice of the pleased smile that spread softly over her face. "It is pleasant to sing with the birds, and the wind, and I think sometimes if I had only Lady Jane how we would all go together!" These words swept from her with the rush of a steed under the hand of a horseman. "Do you understand?" she said, turning to Mr. Stanton. And all the kindness that she felt, when she asked him this question, cannot be told. She wished so that he might understand, as Archie Kensett would, if he were here, sitting beside her with, may be, her hand in his! Perhaps she would not have spoken in this strain to Mr. Stanton had it not been getting dark in the room, quite dark, and her own good feelings ings found expression without any clear idea of the listener she might have. 
               "What would you think if I said, no, I cannot understand it?" asked Mr. Stanton, in full remembrance of the purpose with which he was there, and she,-detained by him. 
               "I should be sorry if it were not so," said she. He did not doubt it; he was on his guard. 
               "Why sorry?" he asked. 
               "It is happiness to know it. You would then," she mused in a voice rich and low as a breath laden with sweets, swaying through the tropics, "you would then have everything yourself. . . If I shut my eyes, or if I sing in the dark, I see beautiful sights, as if I had climbed, no, not climbed, but flown up to some high hill, and could look over everything. Then I can fly, and am never tired. It is just like having the wings of a bird, to be able to sing. . . . Isn't it?" 
               Mr. Stanton was silent. One image, and one alone, had risen up before him while she spoke; he beheld her, exponent that she was of that which was hidden from him, of the enthusiasm of genius, beheld her on the mountain tempted of, and falling before the adversary. What were her words but a simple mind's artless betrayal of the surrender she had made to the tempter? Was she not even here professing a knowledge that was entirely superhuman? Her talk had, under its fantastical expression, a Satanic influence. Even he felt it. 
               But, he would hear her further; and he, the strong man, girded himself up for a conflict, as with the arch-fiend himself, in the person of that young girl. 
               "You like to be alone, I think?" said he. 
               "Oh, no-yes-not always, sir. . . I could bear it better once. I like to be with people," she concluded, and then added a termination, "some people." 
               "What kind of people? if I may ask." Insensibly Mr. Stanton had fallen into a very gentle utterance. Perhaps he pitied her; may be his utterance was a snare, possibly a trap, but, if it was a trap, he would have resented the charge to that effect, with a sincerity that would admit no doubt of his honesty, whatever inference might thus be necessitated in regard to the profundity of his self knowledge. He knew not that he spoke so kindly, but Maud knew it, and Maud was at peace with all the world, the world had grown so very bright and pleasant within a day or two. The old gray world, that was once drowned because its men and women were so wicked; the fair young world, that rolls daily out of chaos in the splendor of its freshness to the pure and happy heart; the mighty world, that, moment by moment, bears on with its terrible, its ever-growing burdens, to the great day of the Lord! 
               "Oh, good people-kind people," she answered simply, innocently; it was such a simple question that he asked her, the dear child. 
               "Do you mean those who are kind to you?" he asked. 
               "Yes," what else should she mean? 
               "It may be that those are the kindest who would not seem exactly so to you. If any one told you your faults, intending to do you a service, would you call them good, kind people?" 
               Quite calmly she answered-and she rather liked the novelty of this dark questioning, in the dark, it struck upon her fancy, and left so much to her imagination! She was quite patient with it. 
               "I like Miss Gladstone, and I like Archibald Kensett." 
               "Do they tell you your faults then?" 
               "I suppose that is the word, sir." 
               "Still you like to be with them?" 
               "I would like it always." 
               "But do you not think it wiser to set your affections on things above?" After all his own experience that day; so little, then, it had availed him! 
                
               She did not receive what he had now said. She hesitated, and at first, seemed inclined to evade the question. 
               I don't know what you mean," she replied, "yet I suppose I do; but I am always, always, to love Miss Gladstone, and Mr. Kensett; I must set my affections here too!" 
               "And will lose them." 
               "Then I have my voice! They are like parts of it." If there was something like defiance in the first half of her answer, there was something very different in the explanation she offered in the last half. 
               "Your voice may fail you." 
               "Then you think it is to sing with words and make a sound." 
               "I always supposed it was." 
               "It is not." 
               "What then? I do not understand." 
               "Do you not?" yet she did not seem so much astonished. 
               "I am sorry, Mr. Kensett does; it is everything to me. 
                     I I
                     I
                   could think it, I could not say it, you know." She paused as if in doubt about his knowing. She had begun to speak with the enthusiasm of a confiding young heart, but now it was as if she had swept away in her daring flight, into those northern regions where perpetual snows are; still she went on, and finished her sentence, even as a half-frozen adventurer might push on further still, hoping to discover some north-western passage. 
               "I could not talk with all these beautiful things." 
               "What beautiful things, Maud?" By the tone of that question there was little room to hope for the issue of this examination. 
               "With the flowers, and birds, and the glorious trees, as I told you. And the angels, you ought to know; I can feel what it means where it says about the morning stars singing for joy. I talked about it once with Hope. But I could sing it better than talk about it." The rapid tone in which she spoke, if it expressed anything, expressed a hope that he would ask her to sing. But how should Mr. Stanton know it? He was not talking with her for the sake of talking. 
               "Explain to me," he said, "why you love these friends you have named, best. If I understood about that-" 
               "I will tell you," she answered; but she did not proceed to do so; instead, after one or two vain efforts to oblige him, she burst into singing, and sang to the end that hymn of contentment Kensett copied for her. 
               "They make me love to sing such tunes as that," she said, when she had finished it. "It would be the same if they found something to blame in me every hour of the day. They serve me as the spirits and powers do." It was beautiful to behold her excitement, but it was too dark there for Mr. Stanton to behold. 
               "Spirits and powers! Do you talk of these things to them?" he exclaimed. With new freshness Hope's recent words came up. Had they not here endorsement. 
               "These things? yes, things! Do you mean by that what I see, and others don't see, or don't seem to? Yes. But I wouldn't to every one. It's strange I should to you." 
               "I like you to tell me what you think and feel." 
               "But it's strange that I should," persisted Maud, talking like one in a dream. 
               "Why so?" 
               "I cannot talk your language, I think. I only know one." 
               "It is not English that you speak then?" 
               "Is it not, sir? Does it sound like a foreign tongue to you?" Maud laughed a short, low laugh; she actually thought that he was jesting with her. 
               "The talk of a Bedlamite," he almost said. 
               "Sometimes I think so," was what he really said. 
               "Oh if I were but a fairy, you should understand it. You would be happier! Sometimes I feel that it is we that make the spring come, and the birds, Mr. Stanton. As if the cold went off because it could not stay, when our hearts were so warm. The sun must shine when our hearts are so clear. Archie"-she laughed again, sweet was that low laugh of hers; the laugh finished all she had to say of Archie. "They say that when joy comes into every heart so, that will make the millenium, sir, do you believe it? 
               "You do not talk in a becoming way of these things," replied Mr. Stanton, severely. It was time for him to check this talk into which he had enticed her. "The seasons are ordained by God. The summer and winter, seed-time and harvest, have all their appointed season. It is idle talk to say that we have anything to do with them, except to improve them as they come and go." 
               "You do not understand," said Maud, mildly, "in our hearts, I meant." She spoke with such womanly dignity, that Mr. Stanton's face flushed in the dark room at the rebuke of the child. 
               When she had so spoken she rose up, and went away. 
               Mr. Stanton breathed more freely when she had gone, and he made a short survey of the words that had passed between them. What power of analysis he had was completely baffled by the presentation of this character, the manner of its presentation; his profound ignorance of her genius, and the directions it must take under the sort of culture it had, was of no benefit to him. But he was vain enough to think he understood her. And Hope Rossiter's charge did not stand in the way of his convictions. There was something to be done yet. And the conclusion of his reflections in the dark parlor, found him prepared to do his duty. Oh DUTY! 
               In the morning, before daybreak, he found his way into Mr. Rossiter's study. He had saddled his horse, it was waiting for him; he had no time to lose in getting back to his own quarters. He stood during his brief interview with Hope's father; and left that gentleman with no very clear idea of anything, beyond the fact that matters were not yet settled between him and Hope, and that he, Mr. Rossiter, was to say nothing to his daughter on the subject of their relations, until Mr. Stanton had talked with her again. 
               There they dropped that subject, and Mr. Stanton would then have departed, but Mr. Rossiter detained him and recalled his mind, which seemed to be in a rambling mood, to say, 
               "You talked long with Maud Saltonstall last even. A fair spirit, Jerome." 
               "It would seem most fair," answered Mr. Stanton, in no hurry now to depart. 
               Mr. Rossiter rubbed his small thin hand thoughtfully across his white forehead, and leaned his weary head upon it-for he was always weary, heavy with his thoughts-and these great labors which were pursued with an idea of duty, a sense of obligation, contracted Heaven knows how. 
               "Lovely as fair," said he. "She inspires us all with a new spirit, I think, Jerome. She was born under a happy star, an astrologer would say. She has puzzled me; and I have not thought it an idle piece of business, sir, to make a study of her. You talk to her about points of immortal interest, and it seems exceeding strange, Stanton, it has startled me sir, she seems almost to exhibit in her own person the condition of those who inherit the kingdom. Yet she has had no experience that I can discover. I love to think upon her. What did you make of her, Jerome?" 
               Nothing, Mr. Rossiter." 
               "Nothing?" repeated the questioner, evidently disappointed by this answer. 
               "I do not understand her, sir. I was glad when she left me last night. I never experienced a greater relief, sir, in my life." 
               "Is this true?" said Mr. Rossiter; "did you feel this of the good child?" 
                
               "She puzzled me so much that it was more a trouble than a pleasure to speak with her, sir." 
               "You'll think differently when you know her better, Jerome." 
               That ended the conversation in point of fact, though a few more words, gracious and cordial, passed between the two ministers, before their parting. 
               "She would do both Hope and Stanton, good," reflected Mr. Rossiter, as he returned to his labors. 
               "Hope Rossiter looked into the heart of the business," exclaimed Stanton, as he rode away. 
             
             
                
               XLIX. OUR TEACHER. 
               "ARCHIE, I like Mr. Stanton less and less," said Maud to Mr. Kensett that same morning. 
               "Hush! yet why?" These words exactly explained Archibald Kensett's sense of his relation to those around him. 
               "He seems so cruel." 
               "How, Maud? Cruel?" 
               "He made me talk to him last night. Why did not you come, and stop it? He made me talk as I would to you. But he never listened as you would have done. I am so glad he is gone. When I heard his horse trot away I wished him a fast ride." 
               "He is a good man." 
               "I hope he will never come again." 
               "He will though." 
               "I shall not talk to him. Nothing can make me. I'll keep out of his sight. I will be sick and go to bed." 
               Kensett laughed aloud-then he remembered himself-"We are commanded to love even our enemies," said he. 
               "That is the very word! An enemy could not have made me suffer more. I cannot bear to think how I told him of such beautiful things. It's just the way he prays and preaches, Archie; he listens just the same way. Augh!" It was a genuine expression of disgust with which she ended. 
               "But you must not say such things. You must not feel them. Everybody esteems Mr. Stanton. He deserves your respect, Maud." 
               "But it's just as if I was in a press, Archie, and the life being squeezed out of me," said Maud, expressing herself with the vehemence she felt. "I'd rather be amongst the heathen than believe the things that he does. He spoils it all. I tried to make him feel what I meant-I sung a song for him-that one you copied, 
                      
                        "How happy is he born and taught, 
                        That serveth not another's will." 
                     
                   I never would have learned it if he had given it to me. He could not feel it. It was of no use singing. I had rather sing to a stone." 
               "You ought to feel sorry for him, then." 
               "I see-he has no soul. Yes! yes! I say it is so, Archie-he can manage the souls of others, but how, I don't know-he has none of his own." 
               Kensett was silent, and the reason was, he could think of no words just then with which to answer her. A rebuke had been the idlest of utterances. 
               "But I did feel sorry for him, and I told him so. I think he tried to make me feel after that, that I was too little to pity him. He got what he has by shutting himself up with old books, when he was young. He couldn't get what I mean that way." 
               "You understand yourself very well, I think, Maud," answered Kensett; "but you may be mistaken about others. You must be more patient. Mr. Stanton is too great a man to be laughed at. And Hope Rossiter deserves your respect. Her industry, and patience, and courage, will make her a remarkable woman yet. Miss Gladstone appreciates her." 
               "Yes, I know it." 
               "And I think," said Kensett, encouraged by her way of saying those few words; "I think you will learn some good lessons from her example. You have beautiful thoughts, and they are precious to you; they are precious to me too when you speak them, but you do not want to think them over and over forever. Your mind must grow, as your body does." 
               "But haven't you seen," she began timidly-but she went no further-even in those words her voice faltered. 
               "I have seen how dilligent you have been lately," said Kensett: he knew what she would say. "Yes; we have all seen it. I wanted to speak to you about it. Do you care to know, Maud Saltonstall, what I would like you to be?" 
               "Yes!" said Maud; he had perfectly understood her. 
               "Then if I could have my way about it, you should always love nature better than books. For God made nature, and only men wrote books. But just as you needed good friends to help you when you were helpless, so you need good books to help your mind, till it is strong." 
               "I see," said Maud. He knew she did. 
               "Let God's world always continue to be more than man's world to you, then, but do not despise the latter. You will lose a great deal if you do; and besides, it would be wickedness in you. Miss Gladstone would tell you the same thing. You do not think the less of her because she is so wise." 
               "She is wise," said Maud, thoughtfully. 
               "Wise! yes! And such a woman! Maud, I saw the queen once, she was riding with the king, in an open carriage, through a London street. Our teacher looks a greater queen than she." 
               "I know it. . . Our teacher. . . I like you to call her so." 
               "Our teacher! Yes! Mine as much as yours, Maud; there was more to be done for me than you, and she has done it. The Almighty bless her. It will be a dark day when we part, we three." 
               "It will not be very soon," asserted Maud; but very faintly, very swiftly she spoke. 
                
               "Perhaps not. If we could always live together, that would be living, Maud!" 
               The youth's face sought to read the countenance that was turned full towards him. Did not her heart hear him? Was not the woman wakened in the girl? 
               "Oh, Maud," he said, "it would have been better to go down in the sea, when death was so near, than to go on through life without you." 
               "Then I will always be near to you," she answered. "It would be good for me, and, if it would be good for you, it must be so. Then it will be pleasant, Archie, to grow old and wise." 
               Kensett did not ask her if she knew the meaning of her words; if she knew how he would interpret them. He looked into her guileless face, and felt that there was no need of vows. To what purpose should he sift the speech of Maud Saltonstall, or bind her with promises? 
               "Now I am going to study," she said, breaking away from him. With a quick movement she turned from him, figuratively-for only in spirit had they embraced-and looked upon the valley lying towards the west; she waved her hand towards the woods. 
               "You are not saying farewell!" said Kensett, very seriously. 
               "Will it always be the same!" asked she. 
               "Forever. You could die sooner than lose all this." With his hand, as he spoke, he described a circle that took heaven and earth within its sweep. 
               That satisfied her; she went away quite, quite satisfied. She walked along a sunbeam-Mrs. Rossiter kissed her as she went through the kitchen, and felt, having done it, as if she had just read anew the Epistles of St. John. Mr. Rossiter met her on the stairs; he was going down with his shaving cup; he smiled at Maud. I do not think he spoke-if he did, she did not hear him, for she caught the cup from his hand and ran laughing down, and flew back again with the water in a moment, before he had time to recover from his surprise, or the flutter occasioned by his own complaisance. But he walked up the narrow staircase with Maud, and it was wide enough for them. He did not mind the broad light in his study that morning, but let it look its half hour through the window, into the strange place, and did not draw the curtain; and the old man heard that bird whose nest was in the tree, through whose branches the pleasant sunshine came. And he did more than this-he wept. What had Mr. Stanton meant, though, in his words concerning Maud! Was it true that she was hard to understand? Through what barrier had he passed that seemed to separate him from his co-workers? He could understand Maud, he thought-but was it only by a trespass that he came before her, face to face? 
               Miss Gladstone met her at the door of their chamber. 
               "Come in," said Maud. To comply was to obey, for the word was a command, and the teacher went back, making no comment on the requirement-she waited to know Maud's pleasure. 
               "I am going to learn everything," said Maud, abruptly, "will you teach me?" 
               "Everything I know," answered Miss Gladstone. 
               "That will be everything. . . I am all ready to begin everything. We both think so, Archie and I." She broke off in her speech here, and relapsed into a meditation which Margaret Gladstone did not interrupt. So profound a meditation that it was not broken when, at the conclusion of her own reflections, Margaret went out and left her alone. 
             
             
                
               L. "THE HIDDEN PATH." 
               BUT not alone was the annunciator of glad tidings in the house. There was another mystery under the gable. 
               Hope did not go out to walk with Maud, as her father commanded when the sight of his daughter's pale face, contrasted with the red cheeks of Maud, struck upon him. 
               She heard Maud at his study door wishing him good morning, in her free and honest way; she heard her father's answer. Before that she saw the girl and Mr. Kensett, and heard them as well; for part of their conversation had taken place just under the shade trees round the kitchen door. 
               Hope had yet to answer Mr. Stanton. The work should at once be done. To it she sat down, and not to any study. It was as if, with the mere utterance of her suspicion, the conviction and the evidence of its truth were realized. Not only all without her, but that which passed within, afforded Hope convincing testimony. When she opened her Hebrew Bible that morning, a shadow passed between it and her eyes, obscuring every letter, every line. The sacred page spread out before her, as a blank! She closed the book in terror; she gazed around her, as one in alarm looks out of himself for help; but the whole familiar scene was chaos. From out the darkness which hung upon the walls and filled the space, strange unshapely images appeared, of which she could make nothing but bewilderment and terror. She rose up when the darkness fled-flying from her suddenly as it had overtaken her-stood up in the midst of the fantastic lights and shapes that ranged themselves around her. "It is Pandemonium," went like a flash of lightning through her mind. With that thought, rather with that conviction, the sacred book she still held in her hand fell to the floor, and in an instant the darkness, the shadows, the images fled away! Like one gone mad she walked the room. Where was the quiet, the calm Hope Rossiter? There was a maniac's strength in the figure that went to and fro; not a fictitious, but a latent strength, roused to its uttermost, and it seemed mighty in power, as active in purpose, to rend from her soul and from existence the evil that pursued her. Thus, wildly in her fear and doubt-not her madness-she went to and fro, till the spirit that was upon her was exhausted, and she threw herself down in her study chair in utter helplessness. 
               Oh, what was this? Her very recollection seemed to have vanished. What strange and terrible calamity had come upon Hope Rossiter? She could not tell. The thoughts with which she came to her room had vanished. All her purposes were gone. Powerless she sat there striving to recall them; the Hebrew Bible was still lying at her feet; she dared not lift it up. 
               But, at length her eyes fell upon the paper she had laid upon the table, thinking to write that day. She knew what she would do; but it was with the energy of a newly formed, instead of a revived purpose that she approached the table once more. Urged on by a despotic tyranny of will, before which she trembled, and dared not question, she began to write. It was to Mr. Stanton she must speak. Without once lifting her pen from her page, she wrote to him; never once raised she her eyes. Usually, in the expression of thoughts, on paper or verbally, she was deliberate, and weighed all her expressions. She would set down nothing that was not squared by rigid rules of taste, nothing that could not endure a strict investigation. Her page was always fair, and her chirography a scribe might have envied. But nothing of all this perfection now. She had to charge Mr. Stanton to put away all thought of her; to tell him of the recent fearful proof she had received, of all that she said yesterday; and she was not careful in the choice of words. 
               While this was passing in Hope's study, Mr. Stanton, in his, was writing down words in what purported to be a sermon, but they were words he never would stand up and deliver. It was a strange medley that he penned; an attempt to prove some profound truth from love and supernaturalism, but the truth that had been taught him needed many a refining process before its true value would accrue to him. There came a time when he could destroy the trash he penned, and call it trash, though it was a rare thing for him to blot out, or destroy, the traces of his labor. His heart, had he really written out from it, would have furnished him stronger stuff and deeper truth, for it was, in truth, moved now by a gigantic passion. He had not shrunk back appalled by Hope's recent confession, convinced that she was lost to him. In desperate resolve he had sprung up to the barrier and determined on her rescue; and he would have rescued her at any cost. As for Maud Saltonstall, he would have swept her life away. Would not the destruction be God's service? Verily! would have swept it away like a reed from the path of Hope Rossiter. For the child vanished from his sight; it was not the sweet-singing girl of last evening, but a power he would thwart, an evil he would vanquish; and if the vanquishment were destruction, what then? "Fret not thyself because of evil doers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity, for they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb." As it happened, these words were written as his text, upon the page before him. But, with what intent of application? No one surely could imagine that Hope Rossiter was envious of Maud Saltonstall! 
                
               Mr. Stanton was not the man to distrust himself, or his commission. It had never entered his heart to imagine that young Kensett stood in his path. He was a man of action. And embodied in Hope Rossiter, is all the beauty of which he can have perception. So we may leave him with his sermon, and his thoughts, without much doubt as to the reception he will give the letter which is being written to him now while he has not a premonition of it. 
             
             
                
               LI. MARGARET'S GIFT. 
               MISS GLADSTONE'S was a high-toned life. She went on the "even tenor of her way," as capable of great deeds as of the small ones that occupied her; all that now came in her way to do, appeared little and trivial. But it was not. Day after day, she went into her school, it was a narrow round of duties trodden there, but her hand was on New England's destiny, and to her, as well as to any of the fathers, the future of the new world was entrusted. She made the path of childhood smoother, fairer than it would have been without her; she lightened the burdens imposed upon the young hearts and minds within her control. She turned duty into pleasure; and explained to all such as could receive it, that religion was another name for love; that worship and duty were yet other names for that illustrious one. She never wavered in her narrow path. It was a broad one, to her thinking. Sheridan Knowles, in our time, will say as much of his. She more than filled her place. Outside the school room were those that grew in grace and beauty, within the shadow of her presence. Kensett was of these; Mr. Stanton valued her for what she was to others, it was not likely she could do anything for him; and it was so likewise with Mr. Rossiter. But Mistress Grace Rossiter never spoke more truly, than when she said, to one who asked her concerning the teacher: 
                
               "I daily bless the Lord for sending her. For myself and many others I might name, she hath made His path straight." 
               There was not a thought in Kensett's heart that he would choose to keep from her. Oftentimes she had helped him beyond telling, but not beyond his gratitude, by bringing before him, in moments of doubt or perplexity, the subject, or theme, or article, that troubled him, in some new light in which he needed to behold it. Her insight was not the power of a diseased, but of a perfectly healthful organization; and Kensett was not her care from any pride, nor her study from any curiosity, but because she loved him, and had a hope of his future. And she had him wholly in her hands. 
               At noonday when she went past his room, on the day of which already we have made frequent mention, she saw him at work there, for the door stood open, and she went in. 
               He threw down his book when he felt her hand on his shoulder. 
               "Three hours of pretence," he exclaimed. "If you should ask me about that dozen pages I've been worrying over, not a word could I say. So much for bothering with print when you are thousands of miles off." 
               "In old England?" asked Miss Gladstone. 
               "Yes," answered he, walking towards his door, and closing it, "but not with the past; with the future." 
               "Longing, regretful?" asked she. 
               "Not regretful, for I could not wish for what I do wish, Miss Gladstone, if it were not for the past. If I had my own will, I would take Maud Saltonstall to England. I have told you this before. The wish haunts me and weighs on me like an obligation. Am I mad?" 
               He was embarrassed when he looked at Margaret, having thus spoken, but his confidence in her was perfect, and he would not trust himself to his own keeping now. 
               "Tell me why, and all your meaning?" said she, sitting in the chair he had occupied, while he presently settled himself on a box under his window, which he had made for the bestowment of his few worldly goods. 
               "I want that she should have an education." 
               "Can she not have one here? I will teach her all I know." 
               "But she should have a career." 
               "A career, Kensett; you have said that before, what can you mean by that?" 
               Kensett paused, not to discover his own meaning, but the best way to declare it. 
               "You know-you must know," he said. "You of all women. Her voice would make her famous." 
               Thoughtfully and quietly Miss Gladstone surveyed him. 
               "Do you want her famous?" she asked at length. 
               "It is her right," said he. "Think of your own career, I beseech you; if you can, persuade me why it should not have a parallel. It is Maud Saltonstall's right." 
               "Could her right be your wrong?" asked Margaret. 
               Kensett seemed to not quite get her meaning, and replied: 
               "It is not of myself that I speak. New England is no place for her. Such a spirit is not for the wilderness. She was never made to be one of the hewers of wood, and drawers of water. Let her go where she can be developed, and understood." 
               "She can both brighten New England's present gloom, and adorn it when it shall become a garden of the Lord. What more would you ask for her?" Margaret would have him answer. 
               "Gifts like hers, Miss Gladstone, are such as make the great characters of the greatest countries illustrious." 
               "I grant it, and we need her here. For that very reason, need her." 
               "There is no prospect of her appearing elsewhere," said Kensett, gloomily. "If one can draw comfort from seeing such a waste, there is an opportunity." 
                
               "The argument, however, should be met, as long as you cherish such a wish for her, met as though it were immediately probable. Do you repent the offering you have made of yourself, Archibald Kensett." 
               "No," he said, promptly and proudly, "but, Maud Saultonstall is a constant anxiety to me." 
               "She should be a constant joy." 
               "This climate is ungenial; she should live and grow in the tropics. She should be where nature is beautiful the whole year round, in the midst of the appreciative and discerning. I did not answer you quite truly, Miss Gladstone. To give her all that would be so much to her, I would resign my prospects here. I know my work is nothing in comparison with what hers might be. For the certainty of giving Maud her rights, I would renounce the ambitious desire of-of-" 
               "Ambitious desire!" repeated Miss Gladstone in astonishment-her voice sunk almost to a whisper. "Do you call it ambition to teach ignorance, what God's spirit has deigned to teach you? Do you mix up your human mortal part so much in the spirit's loftiest exercise? Have you not learned yet, that that is no labor for the Lord which is done without the constant consent on your part, that His will shall decide and determine all your effort? willing to seem to fail at every step, if He shall choose?" 
               "I love her," broke in Kensett, despairing of arresting her condemning words, and that tone of her voice, which troubled him still more than anything that she could say. "I would lay down my life to make her happier!" 
               What did Miss Gladstone say to this outbreak? she said gently: 
               "The love of one heart is better than the applause of a thousand. Preserve it Kensett, preserve your life firm to shield her. She will need guidance and protection. . . . And now, have done with this idle talk we have indulged in. You need not avow to me that you will be faithful to the calling whereunto you are called. Have done with such vacillation." 
               "My whole heart assures me that I must be done with it." he answered, like a child. 
               "And not for Maud's sake, nor for mine." 
               "How then, should I be His servant?" 
               "True. Go on then, Archibald. And when such foolish thoughts again beset you, go and find Maud and talk to her of your future, anything but remain here to do wickedly in your imagination. This is to dally with temptation." 
               "Miss Gladstone, Maud is as a child to you," said Kensett, with a faltering voice. 
               "She is my child," answered the lady, quietly. "She was given away entirely to me." 
               "Give her to me!" 
               "Prove yourself worthy of her, my friend," answered Margaret. And then she kissed Kensett, and was gone. And he, who had begun the morning with a thought of Maud Saltonstall bringing all Europe to her feet, ended it by making her the queen of some little dominion, equal perhaps to that he then inhabited himself; which was exactly eight feet by six. The last dream was a purer and a better than the first. He had Margaret Gladstone's warrant for believing that "the love of one heart is better than the applause of a thousand," and never lover and Christian set out with braver purpose of making his heart worthy the new tenant whose presence he had avowed. 
             
             
                
               LII. FATHER AND CHILD. 
               HOPE found an opportunity of sending her letter to Mr. Stanton. Such opportunities were frequent, and the family at the parsonage usually availed itself of them to send messages, or remembrances to that member of it now removed from them. 
               It was the next day after her letter had gone, Hope was alone in her room, driven there, but not as formerly, by her own inclination. For two days, since her bible had fallen from her hand, she had not opened a book. She had kept by herself, and hardly a word escaped her. 
               Her father had observed her mood, he thought it the indication of some spiritual trial through which she was passing, through which she must pass alone. And he thanked God, for it was a day of tranquillity with him, that her trial could not be like his! And, as was his custom, he forbore to speak of it. It was easy for Hope to explain that she must be alone; and her mother saw her go away with a sigh, and a prayer as well, that her child's feet might speedily be set in the peaceful, pleasant paths of wisdom. 
               It was late in the afternoon, and Hope and her parents were alone in the house, Miss Gladstone and Maud were still in school, and Kensett in the field. 
               Mr. Rossiter was looking for a book among his shelves and running his eyes as he did so over the volumes which his Hope had read, and thinking, with a father's pride, of her acquirements, and in the same connection recalling Mr. Stanton, when he was brought away from his search-how he could never tell. 
               It was a voice's cry, or the falling of a body, some sound, or some still more powerful admonition conveyed otherwise, that brought him with flying feet within his daughter's chamber. 
               She was lying on the floor, but he caught her from it, caught her to his bosom-held her there-carried her as he used to do long ago, when she was an infant to her bed, laid her on it, brought water to dash upon her face, spirits to breathe into her nostrils. All alone; the student had come out of himself, the frail man was like a giant, for every fear he had ever harbored for that precious life stormed upon him now. She was dead or dying. But he never thought to call her mother. All was here on this bed; his darling and his pride, he was not at a loss, never was there a watcher more ready with expedients and resorts than he. When she opened her eyes he fell upon her, and wept, until startled into a feigned calmness, by her voice asking, "Father, what does this mean?" 
               These were the very words bursting, strong with authority from her lips, as Hope rose in the bed. 
               He must frame her an answer. This only he perceived. This clearly. There was that in her face which he trembled to look at, and dared not deny. 
               "You fell, my child-and fainted away-so worn out with study, my daughter; so utterly worn out." 
               Hope did not seem to hear his answer. She covered her face with her hands; she laid herself down on the bed Over her fingers the blood from her wounded cheek trickled, and she removed her hand-looked at it. The sight seemed to nerve her anew. It was but a breath she uttered, but it was charged with the dreadful secret she could not bear alone, and Mr. Stanton was not here. Any other ear then-and it was her father's! Her words checked the tears that were gathering in Mr. Rossiter's eyes; driven back, they fell, how heavily! on the old man's heart. 
               "Hope, Hope, my daughter!" he cried, "what is this fearful thing you say?" 
               Steadily she answered: 
               "I am not myself, father-I am changed." 
               "Oh, daughter, Hope-I do not see, I have not seen it!-what mean you? what mean you, my child?" 
               He doubted her sanity by the way he uttered that question, but calmly she answered, yet in that calmness there was desperation. 
               "You have not seen, but I have felt it-changed and lost-lost! I am." 
               "Oh, Hope, my child! my good, dear child! my daughter! my daughter! it is to your old father-your father that you are speaking. Look at me, my child. Think where you are. Look around you. It is your own room, and I. . . ." 
               "You think I am wrong in my brain: oh, father, it would be blessed for me if I were," said Hope, interrupting him in his frantic appealing. She spoke so quietly that he was stilled, hearing her. 
               "I am not what I was. I cannot think, I cannot study. My days are full of horrid visions, and I cannot sleep for the fearful dreams I have. Sometimes I think I have gone blind-I can see nothing: and then-then it is more terrible to see-visions so horrible! Thoughts that no one but a demon ever had, torment me, and beset me. When I can endure it no longer, I fall down like one dead. And Maud Saltonstall, I charge her, before God, as the cause of it all." 
               "Maud!" exclaimed Mr. Rossiter, doubting if indeed he heard his daughter's voice; so incredible, so wild a sound had her last words. 
               And Hope repeated the name. 
                
               Then, as if thoughtful only of the incredible in this, he said: 
               "Hope, Hope Rossiter, you never have deceived me. Our Heavenly Father knows the confidence I have reposed in you. But, Hope, consider! Oh, say not that!" 
               She, his daughter, rose before the poor student, caught away from his books, and from his own secret thoughts, by the tragedy of real life enacting before him. Accidentally her hand fell on the Bible that lay upon the stand beside her bed; three days she had not touched it, had not ventured, but now the need of the occasion enabled her to conquer the inability that had seemed to possess her. She took it in her hand, saying: 
               "By what this book was to me once, I declare to you, I speak but the truth." 
               Then said Mr. Rossiter, slowly, brokenly-he had passed beyond his resources, was nothing to himself longer- 
               "There is one who, from his relation to us-us-and who also on account of his discretion and judgment, has a right to come and consult with you, and with me-with your father, Hope. I will write for him-for Mr. Stanton-Hope, to come here." 
               It was a triumph over herself-over the wiles of the adversary-as she conceived, when Hope answered, as she did, after a moment's hesitation: 
               "Write for him, father." 
               He stooped and kissed her face, the pale face of the scholar of whom he was so proud, and he had a crushed look when he stood up again. 
               It was Maud Saltonstall, justly accused or not, Maud who had occasioned all this ruin. And how had he come to love that child! The child of Abigail. In spite of every barrier he placed before his heart, his heart that seemed so cold, and calm, and capable of being fired only by a divine flame, she had entered it, she had her secure place there. She had obtained tained it without his consent, without his knowledge; but now he knew that it was securely hers, and trembled knowing it. For Hope's dominion was a broader one, it covered the extent of his human nature, and these two were at war! 
               What if it were true that Hope had said? Hope never had deceived him; manifestly what she had declared was no falsehood, no invention, if she indeed knew what it was she said: what she had asserted, she believed; and what if were true? His reason was in the ascendant now. Abigail had vanished; his youth was wholly dead. He had probably but cheated himself with the fancied resemblance between her and this child. Or might not positive truth be in those words of Hope's, and he, as well as she, a victim to the tempter? Did he not know that he had fallen? 
               Suppose his pride had been concerned of late in his derogations from what he had conceived to be his exalted Christian character, would not that pride be strengthened and appeased in the assurance that an independent power of evil, and not his own heart's corruption assaulted him? 
               Could he regard, under these circumstances, the instrument of which that independent power had made use, with any great degree of favor, or charity, or pity? Would he be prepared to judge righteous judgment? Remorseful thoughts had troubled him; they had troubled him so much that in the lapses of his passion he had prayed for an escape, and now that a door was opened-why the man that flies from danger is not prepared for a cool estimate of all the circumstances-it is the danger, the threatened ruin, that commands his flight. 
             
             
                
               LIII. INQUISITION PURITANIC. 
               "MAUD! where is Maud?" It was Mr. Rossiter's voice that asked this question, and he put his head into the door of the room which Maud Saltonstall had just entered on her return from school. She had outwalked Miss Gladstone, and on entering the house, a moment ago, perceiving Kensett in the family room just back of the parlor, she had gone in. When Mr. Rossiter, hearing, followed her, she stood before Kensett, her bonnet off, her books thrown down, and was asking him to account for his solemn face, not knowing yet what he had been told, that Hope was suddenly and very ill. 
               "Maud, will you go up into my study?" asked Mr. Rossiter. 
               Kensett started up at his request. It had so strange a sound to him, he knew not why. Maud had turned away from him, and he had turned from her when she looked at him, as on the instant she moved to obey Mr. Rossiter. 
               Kensett followed her to the door when she had gone, and saw Mr. Rossiter pass through the street door, closing it after him. What did he then? He went up the stairs as Maud Saltonstall had done the moment before. It was in time to see her standing just within Mr. Rossiter's study, and Mr. Stanton waiting for her there. 
               Mr. Stanton therefore had been sent for, and was come. 
               When he, Mr. Stanton, perceived the reluctance with which Maud obeyed him as he requested her to close the door that he might speak alone with her, he was moved even then to do her an injustice, though he had come there resolved to deal with all justice toward her. Why should she manifest such reluctance to talk with him, as invariably she did? It was natural for a man of his penetration to suppose that she dreaded an exposure. 
               This thought, lightly as he glanced at it, did not prepare him to treat her in a manner which would win her confidence. 
               "Sit down, Maud," said he, inviting her to do so by his own act, as well as by words-and he pointed to the unoccupied, straight-backed, wooden chair. 
               Maud went slowly towards it, and sat down on its edge. In doing so she threw an arm over one of the lofty rounds of the back, as if to cling even here to something, and there was nothing else but a bit of painted wood. 
               "How old are you, Maud?" He asked. It being the first question that occurred to his mind. 
               "Sixteen," she told him. 
               "You have not studied much, I believe." 
               She assured him that she had not. 
               Then he remarked that, if she had not studied much, she had thought a great deal. And Maud looked at him wondering. Wondering, but pleasantly, so that he said, 
               "What do you think about, Maud?" 
               "I think about the things I like to think of. . . . sir." 
               "But what things, Maud? I wish to know." Her last quick answer had the effect to change his own tone somewhat, and now he spoke as one having authority. 
               "Why do you wish to know?" She asked. "Have I a right to my own thoughts?" 
               "Not if they are evil." 
               "Not if they make me happy?" 
               "If they make you happy why not share them?" 
               "With you?" burst from Maud. "You could not understand stand them, sir. It is no use. You did not understand me when we talked before. So, I should like to go, if you please." 
               "She looked toward the door as she spoke, but as yet made no move to go. 
               "You are too impatient," he returned. "A young lady should have better manners when she is in communication with her superiors. I was not curious to see you to-day. But there was occasion for the interview. You know Miss Rossiter." 
               "Yes, sir." A faint smile crossed the face of Maud, at what seemed to her a formality of speech so useless and so idle. 
               "You would not suspect her of any evil thoughts," asked Mr. Stanton-and his voice told that he was ashamed of the question. 
               "No, sir," answered Maud promptly. 
               "You never would suspect her of an untruth." 
               "No, sir," admitted Maud. "She was always been taught to speak the truth, why shouldn't she? Besides, she is not a child." 
               "That is in some respects well answered," said Mr. Stanton. "She is truth itself-she was so when a child-she needed no teaching on that point. What will you say then, Maud, when you hear that Miss Rossiter is at this very moment undergoing the most fearful sufferings, and that she pronounces you to be the occasion of them?" 
               "I, Mr. Stanton?" From head to foot Maud trembled, listening to this charge. She could not understand it, but her soul was shaken, hearing it. 
               "That it is from you that the evil thoughts do come which so much disturb her." 
               "From me, Mr. Stanton?" 
               "From you, Maud Saltonstall. And that you have communicated to her your power, of which you have so often boasted, of seeing things in the invisible world, which sights are the occasion of keenest distress to her." 
               In spite of the solemnity with which these words were spoken, and the effect they had upon the listener, Maud Saltonstall laughed at the charge, when it was actually made; but the laugh was stifled in an instant. This was no play-Mr. Stanton's face was awful before her. 
               "I deny it," she said, coming back to the occasion; and in spite of her youth, she did seem equal to confront it, if the spirit and force with which she made the denial might be taken for a true expression. 
               "How can you deny it? It is SHE that makes the charge! Have you not said that this power was given to you? Will you deny this also-to me who have but now, as it were, listened to your boast?" 
               "I have never spoken but the truth to you, Mr. Stanton. I have never spoken but the truth to any mortal, man or woman." 
               "You declare that." 
               "Yes!" she maintained stoutly. 
               So prone is even a just mind to exult in the establishment of its own position when it sets out to prove a preconceived idea, that Mr. Stanton listened with something like deep satisfaction to this steadfast reiteration of what Maud had asserted. Her young face, troubled though it was, confronted him as a sunbeam might confront an iron mask. 
               Then he asked her, or rather demanded of her, in a way that roused all her opposition: 
               "Tell me what it is that you have seen, which others cannot see. It is important that I should know." As if perfectly aware of the danger he himself encountered in venturing on this ground Mr. Stanton asked the question, folding his arms, lifting his eyes heavenward. 
               "You would not understand me if I told," she replied. "I do not like you to talk in this way to me, sir. I know you think it bold in me to say it. But you ought not to provoke me. Hope did not know what I meant when I talked as you say I did; and I don't know what you mean when you talk to me in this way. What do you mean? Speak English." 
               "You said, Maud, that you heard voices which no one else could hear. You have said that repeatedly. Did you wish to be believed or not?" 
               These words were softly spoken-spoken thus they must be,-Mr. Stanton began to perceive, if he would compass that inconceivable perversity. 
               But Maud made no reply. He continued. 
               "You have said besides that sometimes you were caught away from yourself, and carried along through the air very high, swiftly, as if you had wings." 
               She lifted her head, and looked wonderingly at the speaker-it was so strange to hear her foolish words repeated by his lips. And she laughed again. 
               There was more audacious human mirth than mocking diabolic scorn, in that low, short laugh. It moved the listener to believe that there must be danger even in her presence-it thrilled him. His face flushed, but in his brain there was not the disturbance of a man who is defied; but the defined and firmly-maintained purpose that could not be impeded. He betrayed however no consciousness of that mirthful sound; and the effect of his grave and stern impenetrability was to calm Maud as a reproof could not have done. 
               "And you have said that you had the power to know the thoughts of others before they were spoken-even when they were never spoken." He continued. 
               Again, as if the desire to see how Mr. Stanton looked while he uttered these things, were irresistible, Maud lifted her face, and gazed at him; but she did not laugh, neither did she answer. When he insisted on a reply, she said: 
               "If I have said it, Mr. Stanton, what then?" 
               "Was it not wrong in you to say such things? Was it not untrue?" 
                
               "No, it was true." 
               "When Miss Rossiter said, noble sentiment!-that it was worth one's while to work hard, even as she did, to win the love and respect of others-higher good being thus evolved-do you recollect her saying so?" 
               "I do recollect that." 
               "Do you remember what you said in reply?" 
               She answered that she did. 
               "Will you repeat it?" 
               "I said that I could make whoever I wanted love me; without that, I said, I could charm people," answered Maud carefully recalling and repeating her words. 
               "Why did you say it?" 
               "Because-it was true, I thought." 
               "Do you say that still?" 
               "I would as soon say it again. . . . . Let me go to Hope Rossiter, sir," Maud rose now-angry and impatient. This farce was over, to her mind. 
               Then said Mr. Stanton, quickly, 
               "It is your presence that has brought her so much sorrow already. You have shaken that precious life. It is you who have bewitched her." Mr. Stanton had gone beyond his purpose in thus speaking, far beyond; he stopped and recalled himself. 
               "You think I am a witch!" cried Maud, in her inconceivable amazement. 
               He did not answer. And Maud, confounded, recalling in an instant all that she had heard, read, and talked of witchcraft in the house, overcome by sudden fear, as the accusation rose upon her imagination, stood for that moment appalled at the charge. Then came the thought of Miss Gladstone, and she hurried towards the door. The minister, with a stride reached it before her, and put himself in the way. That alone was sufficient to make her retreat. 
             
             
                
               LIV. THE PRISONER. 
               "CONFESS before you go," said he. "What have you done?" 
               Maud's cheek flushed, and burned. Her eyes flashed upon Mr. Stanton in a blaze of indignation. Not a tear was hid in them, but scorching brightness. She withdrew from the door, for she disdained to struggle with him for an egress-though every nerve of her frame was wrought up, and her mind in a storm of excitement, that gave her for the moment all the strength of which she felt the need in such a struggle. 
               Then she crossed the room to the study window. He had locked the door and secured the key; one would have thought from his precautions that he had the arch-fiend there under his keeping; and now he followed her to the window. Would she leap from it? That was what he feared; but there was really no occasion, though she seemed to perceive his suspicion, for, as he advanced, she moved again into the centre of the room, with a haughty grace, such as the old time had often witnessed, when her mother reigned and ruled in social life. If Mr. Rossiter had seen it, his mind would have dismissed its doubts. It seemed quite natural to her, though never before had it been manifested in her bearing. Occasion had not called for it. 
               "Only confess," said Mr. Stanton, for this silence he could not endure. "Confess! and the danger of the evil will be past." 
                
               "I wish to see Miss Gladstone." 
               "In confession, and in confession alone, is the power of the adversary overthrown. Confess! and turn this house of mourning into joy." 
               "She is my guardian; I wish to see Miss Gladstone." 
               "Do you think that any one here, where all have loved you so much, and dealt so tenderly by you, would treat you with less kindness than she?" 
               "I wish to go away from this house. Call Miss Gladstone. I had rather starve and freeze than stay here." 
               "I have no doubt of it," said Mr. Stanton, sadly. "The tempter no doubt would rejoice to employ you for the doing of his work elsewhere. Oh if you might but have the grace to confess." 
               "To confess and be a liar!" said she, in the calmness of her scorn. "To satisfy you! Do you truly think I will?" 
               "To confess, and be saved!" expostulated Mr. Stanton, not in the least understanding the spirit of her calmness. "You think, because you have these thoughts and feelings, which you have confessed that others have also, or, if they have them not, that it is because they are poorer than you." 
               "It is the truth." 
               "It is a specious device of the adversary." How closely he watched her as again he pronounced this dire word! Her way of hearing it persuaded him of the truth of his theory. "So far has he deceived you that you have mistaken his work for the work of nature; alas, perhaps, even for a work of grace likewise. So callous as you are and yet so young! What I have told you seems to move you no more than if it were all an invention." 
               "I think it is one," said Maud; but she was trembling in every limb; the invincible soul of the girl maintained its right, though her frame was shaken like a reed. He saw how much she was disturbed, and mistook it for a favorable symptom. 
                
               "Sit down, Maud-let us reason together." 
               "No, sir; if you please, I prefer to stand;" and she straightened up herself, though she had grown very pale in the last few minutes. For now her memory had recalled the penalty of those adjudged guilty of precisely such charges as these brought against her, and the remembrance, while it led her to employ a more temperate and patient tone, found her also prepared to cleave resolutely to the truth. 
               But, to his mind, it was the most conclusive proof of the lamentable extent to which she was involved in guilt and danger, that she manifested no consciousness of it, even that she should mistake such a tone of mind as hers for a healthful, a natural one. He was constantly more and more impressed with this notion, and began more earnestly and seriously to labor for her enlightenment concerning her abberrations, to explain to her the work of EVIL, and what were the acknowledged fruits of the spirit. 
               "I only ask you to listen," he said, more mildly than he had before spoken. "Mr. Rossiter bade me speak to you. He at least, has a right to some influence with you. You should consider what I have to say, for my studies have been in this direction, and I am better prepared than you to judge in such a case as this. A spiritual work is rarely done in a moment. Paul and Judas were exceptions; you are not an exception." Here he paused. Maud spoke not, but she listened to him with all the attention that he could desire. "The work of the adversary is, throughout, a work of deception; those whom he would employ to do his work are first deceived. I can show you how he has proceeded in one instance. He first attacked the mind, by puffing it up with inordinate self-conceit, so that it believed itself not only better, but wiser, than its kind, and, from this state, pride naturally came forth, the spirit of envy, the spirit of falsehood, of detraction; the control exercised over others, the influence imparted, may be done in entire ignorance. But, to deny it, after it is fully manifest before all, yourself and others, that is not a sin of ignorance. I have studied the workings of the human mind; I am quite aware that this unhappy influence you are accused of having exerted over Miss Rossiter is very different from what it might appear in others; different in results, whatever it may be in point of fact. I am perfectly persuaded that it is not her mind alone that has been so influenced, but, as yet, I do not feel at liberty to mention others; but I say it is a fearful sin in you, if, now that you are made aware of your work, you do not repent it before God and man. In Miss Rossiter the evil influence is most apparent, and most grievous, because she is so greatly endowed; because the grace of God has advanced its precious work so far in her life the struggle must be fearful. She is aware of the terrible intrusion. Behold! where all was peace, there is now fearful riot and confusion. Where all was light, darkness! Where love was, anguish, bitterness! The strong intellect can no longer pursue its flight. She lies upon her bed prostrate by this calamity! Release her, Maud Saltonstall! Deliver her! I summon you, by the name that is above every name, confess! that the spell may be broken, the power frustrated. Oh, repent, or what can you do but perish?" 
               The deep low voice of the speaker, who had brought himself before her, and stood, with her, in the centre of the room, looking upon her face which was steadfastly upturned and gazing upon him, her lips parted, was not without effect. Carried away by his own speaking, almost losing sight, as it seemed, of everything but his own emotion, he spoke, but his words had more conviction in them for himself than for her. 
               "Then I must perish," she answered; her eyes fell on the floor, and paler grew her face. 
               "It cannot, cannot be! So full of all subtlety, and all wickedness!" 
                
               "I tell you truly, Mr. Stanton, there is nothing that I can confess." 
               And now she, in the perplexity of her thoughts the utter bewilderment and doubt, and dismay which followed his words, laid her hand on his arm, and her voice had a beseeching in its tone that he would believe her. 
               The pride that was in her first denial, was not in this; but there was in her words a dignity and a grace more touching, because she was so manifestly unconscious of all things but the moment's need that he should believe her. Under this sense of need, was a deeper sense of peril, and still beneath this, a firmer basis of impregnable courage. 
               Since he had taken the ground of that theory, Mr. Stanton, it should be stated, had not a doubt in his mind of the fact assumed. The deliverance of one dear to him as his life, depended on Maud's confession; Maud's own deliverance depended on it. He felt the need of study in this case. With prayer he would consider it, and without much doubt as to the answer she would give, he said hastily: 
               "Do you prefer that I should remain here with you, or will you remain alone, until Mr. Rossiter returns?" 
               "Oh go!" said Maud. 
               "Will you remain here?" 
               "If Mr. Rossiter wishes it." 
               "Will you promise to refrain from communication by word of mouth with any person besides Mr. Rossiter, until he shall return?" he foolishly interrogated. 
               "No one ever comes here beside Mr. Rossiter and Hope." 
               "Are you seeking to deceive me? Does not Mr. Kensett come?" So little did he know of human nature, as to question thus! 
               "Not without asking for admission first." 
               "Will you keep silence if he should come?" He would make all things so sure. But his very caution thwarted itself. 
               "No, sir, I will not promise. If Miss Gladstone comes, I shall ask her to come in, and take me away-anywhere-from this house." 
               She did not look at Mr. Stanton as she said this, nor after, but she sat down resolute, and for some reason Mr. Stanton then concluded that it was best to leave her without further argument. 
             
             
                
               LV. MAUD'S HELPER. 
               IT was quite dark when he went up again to Mr. Rossiter's study. He went commissioned to serve here anew. He carried in his hand a small tray, containing a lamp, a glass of water, some bread, and it might be a bit of sweet cake, arranged by Mrs. Rossiter's own hands on one of the best plates the house afforded. She sent it up to Maud with her love, and said it was her hope that the dear child would partake of the refreshment. But Mr. Stanton forgot the message, or else he deemed it not wise to repeat it then. 
               He found Maud Saltonstall sleeping in the study-chair-in the same seat she occupied when he left her in the afternoon. 
               It was not a sound slumber, for it was broken even by his careful step; he crossed the study, placed the tray upon the table, and sat down, and Maud said, starting from her chair: 
               "Am I not to go now, Mr. Stanton?" 
               "Mr. Rossiter and Miss Gladstone think that it would be better if you remained by yourself a short time. And they hope, that you will think seriously of what Miss Rossiter has alleged, that you will try to attend to the instructions concerning those things wherein you have need to be taught. You do not know what it is that you deny, and they understand that you do not. We should esteem ourselves without excuse, if we failed in labor to make it clear to you." 
               "Does Miss Gladstone say so, sir?" asked Maud, in a subdued dued, uncertain way; what he now said, as well as what was charged against her, was past belief. If Miss Gladstone were not on her side! 
               "Yes, it is also her opinion," he replied; but he did not add that she had adopted it against her will, and probably he did the not see fact in quite this light. 
               "Does Mr. Kensett, too?" 
               The slight hesitation that occurred in his answer, brought the question from her still more impetuously: 
               "Does Archibald Kensett too, sir?" 
               "He was not consulted; he is but a student yet." 
               "What does Mrs. Rossiter say?" Thus she declined from one hope to another-swiftly, for she felt her urgent need. 
               "You are not pursuing these questions in a way that expresses confidence either in Mr. Rossiter, Miss Gladstone, or myself," said Mr. Stanton. "Be assured, 'tis your good each one of these, your friends, seeks." 
               "But let Miss Gladstone come here. Tell her I have something to say to her," demanded Maud. 
               "She is convinced with us, that it would be better to leave you at present to a quiet consideration of these things. It is her prayerful hope that the necessity may be removed very soon." 
               "Remove it then! I know it rests with you. Why will you not? I know, Mr. Stanton, I have sinned a great many times in my life, but Miss Gladstone no more believes that I am guilty of what Hope Rossiter says, or you say, than she believes that you are, Mr. Stanton." 
               The effect of these, or any other words that she could say, was but to establish Mr. Stanton in his convictions. He told her that her words had this effect, and he entreated her to bow down with him, and join him in his prayer for her deliverance and preservation. 
               She refused, and, as if maddened by his words, and some new and more intelligible apprehension of her danger than she had yet conceived, without moving from the place where she stood, without attempting an escape, she cried out for a deliverer. To her the impulse was as sudden as the sound to him. Three times the name of Kensett went from her lips, her nature-it was a cry that ran through the house-searching for him, and startling every soul that heard it. How should Kensett not hear it? He had gone to his room just down the passage from the study-not half a dozen steps-for he deemed himself unfit, unequal to the effort of remaining with the family, or any member of it. He had not been present at any conference; he knew not what it was that had actually passed, and was passing in the house. Hope was ill. Maud was with Mr. Stanton-he had learned no more than this-and he knew not what he feared; for he did fear. 
               But when he heard that cry, he ran from his room, straight to Mr. Rossiter's door, and he stood there when that call burst in its quick succession from Maud Saltonsall. 
               "Maud, are you there?" he asked, for he had already laid his hand on the latch, and it had resisted him. 
               "Tear the door open, Archie! Let me come!" cried Maud. 
               "Mr. Kensett will certainly recollect himself sufficiently to . . . . Mr. Kensett, Mr. Rossiter will inform you of the necessity of removing yourself immediately," said the agitated voice of Jerome Stanton. 
               "Go, Archibald Kensett, and when you have heard, come and tell me what you think of this. Go!" 
               There was a lofty tone of command in Maud's voice that startled both these listeners-the suddenness of its change from entreaty to confidence, they neither of them understood. But she felt there was safety for herself in him. So instantly had he obeyed her call-not delaying for a moment -and the sound of his voice, the remembrance that only a door was between her and her friends, made her turn to Mr. Stanton, and survey the astonishment he could not well conceal, with great composure. 
               As for Mr. Stanton, he felt every instant the increasing difficulties of his position; but the service was not self-imposed. And since he had been called to the work of her conversion and dispossession, he was not the man to abandon it. He might have added, since he had taken his stand on his theory, he would sink with it rather than abandon it. His habit of mind, his conceptions of religious belief, the tendency of the time to superstition and credulity in all matters which assumed the form of spiritual concernment, the exhibitions Maud had now again given, for he believed her to be, in these moments, of aroused passion, "beside herself," these things made him only the more persistent in his belief. He must be consistent. 
               But he could not command a word to say. A difficulty so uncommon was this that he began actually to believe that he himself was not beyond the reach of this affliction. It was therefore, with a scarcely disguised sensation of relief that he heard her say: 
               "Mr. Stanton, if I am a prisoner here I will not trouble you to remain. You can fasten the door from the outside if you choose. 
               The mildness of her speech was such that he was led to believe that, by remaining, he might advance now somewhat from the position they had occupied a few minutes before, And it was a good evidence of his habitual self-discipline that he so easily returned to that point when he longed to escape from it. She seemed to read his intent with a readiness that, alas! only went in confirmation of his belief that she was possessed of some superhuman power, for, waiving her hand with a commanding dignity which he could not have resisted if he would, she said, "I pray you leave me." 
                
               And he presently obeyed her. Obeyed her-though his going forth had not that seeming to his mind. He did not appreciate his own subtlety in self-deception yet. I think the same thing could be said of him at the expiration of his three-score years and ten. 
               There she sat when he was gone, still, motionless. She thought that Kensett would come. Why did he not? Moment by moment she waited for the sound of his footsteps on the stairs. Not that she would break her word with Mr. Stanton, if he should come; not that she would fly from that room, that little study, where she was a prisoner; but Archibald would tell her that he at least believed in her. Or, if he came not, Miss Gladstone would come, because she was living, she looked for the sun. She could not merely long for any good; the longing compelled her to look for its satisfaction. 
               Little was the religion they gave her credit for, but the expectation of Israel was indeed come to Maud Saltonstall. She was a child dwelling in her Father's house, and not a beggar gleaning in his lands, or skulking along the hedgeways of his magnificent domain. 
               And she knew that Kensett loved her. She needed no better proof than he had freely given. That assurance gave her joy. How did she know it, do you ask, thinking of her youth, her inexperience. 
               Listen, for I do not write a ditty-I would rather choose to sing an anthem here. How did she know it? Because, when he was near, her heart was full of peace; because his prayers had taught her how to pray; because, in laughter or in study, there was never jar or discord between them; because she felt that he understood her, and that she understood him; because the flowers he gathered for her were like those that unfold in Paradise-unlike all others springing from heavy earthly soil. He was sacred in her eyes; holier and wiser, more beautiful, more true, than other men; and she was conscious of new excellencies in herself when he beheld them in her. For this reason she felt the charge made against her integrity as a double, a deeper insult. Not only herself, but Kensett, her dear friend, was wronged by it. She felt it for herself, and for him as that self's most intimate associate. 
               It was a passion all the deeper, not the more evanescent, because springing from her virgin heart. I have read many tales of fancy and foolishness, misnamed tales of love; I have watched through many a farce and wondered, not at the conclusion, but that the actors on the stage should cheat the audience so well as even also to delude themselves. A passion has vitality, a fancy none; a passion may die, but its spirit has inevitably a resurrection, for better or for worse it lives again. With the thousand thousand fancies, foolish people, heartless and conniving, ignorant and soulless, call by the name of love, let the winds do as they will. Whence they come, whither they go, life is too short to question. 
               Maud was too young, too inexperienced, to understand her own love; she knew that it existed, but its result even as its cause, was hidden from her. Kensett was more to Maud than to Hope Rossiter, because he loved Maud in turn. Maud might very easily have said he was dear to her as a brother would have been, but a brother never yet was loved so. She could not apprehend distinctions, but she possessed the absolute reality, that which is in virtue, as it is in strength, the most exalted faculty of the immortal soul. 
             
             
                
               LVI. THE CONSULTATION. 
               THAT Kensett had not been taken into such family council as had already been held, was no occasion for surprise. Not merely his youth and inexperience excluded him, though these were considered sufficient causes of exclusion; in a calamity like this, it was not felt that he belonged to the family, though a member of the household. It may have been, moreover, a consideration of weight with them, that he had found of late so much to say to Maud, they regarded him as likewise in some degree under her control. This suspicion had a prevailing, though unacknowledged, influence, both with Mr. Rossiter and Stanton, the spiritual physician employed for the conduct of this difficult case. But Margaret Gladstone had come instantly, of her own will, into the council. 
               Calm woman that she was, composed by nature and by grace into a state of placidity, Madame Guion would have appreciated, under the conviction that she understood it, though she had fronted death under circumstances of the utmost terror and confusion, subjected to all the contagion of fear and sympathy, she was aware now of an effort, a painful and difficult endeavor, as she attempted to join, composedly, in the discussion which she must share. 
               Still she listened quietly while, at the close of his first investigation, Mr. Stanton set forth the result and conclusion, at which, he believed, they must unavoidably arrive. 
                
               Now, in addition to the physical force of Mr. Stanton, which corresponded with his mental vigor, his words had with Miss Gladstone, all the weight of the source from which they emanated. His convictions were not to be dismissed, as the convictions of one who spoke merely by his own authority, might be. Mr. Rossiter was no help to her; he seemed entirely unfitted for the sudden and fearful emergency. How should he not mistrust his kindly feeling, even if it were actually true that "Evil" had come beneath his roof to be the god of any of his house. To all that Mr. Stanton said he could but listen in the spirit of inquiry. He could not help, he would not be a hinderance, in the investigation. 
               When Mr. Stanton had expressed his fears, and given utterance to thoughts, which he said had long troubled him respecting the spiritual darkness of Maud's condition, Miss Gladstone spoke; she had but one thing to suggest, she could only think of the security flight would afford, and she said: 
               "I have been the occasion of introducing distress among you; it is but reasonable that I should withdraw the cause. Mr. Rossiter, with your consent, I will instantly remove Maud Saltonstall from the parsonage." 
               "Where could you go?" said Mr. Rossiter, still more bewildered by his helplessness, and his consciousness of helplessness, when Miss Gladstone spoke thus; for he thought that instead of being the proposition of the moment, as it was, she had deliberated and weighed the subject, and that this being her conclusion, she must have still more to say. He admired Miss Gladstone, and respected her judgment, and, at this time, her word had only less weight with him than Mr. Stanton's. He did not seem to perceive any objection to the proposed removal, but rather grasped at it as though ruin might thus be averted. 
               Mr. Stanton had more energy in his thought. In the spirit of inquiry, not, be it understood, of expostulation, he asked: 
                
               "Would it be wise, would it be just, to remove a suspected cause of disorder into another vicinity, as yet, so far as we know, unaffected?" 
               "It would not," said Mr. Rossiter, firmly and promptly. There was, at least, not the sin of selfishness in his fear. If ruin had fallen on his own house he would not have it thence communicated. 
               "I will return, then, with her to her father's house," she said. 
               But Mr. Stanton was ready to meet this proposition as well. What could he not meet in his rapid processes of thought? He might have astonished himself by his instant readiness, had he been an ordinary man. But, in the meditations of after years on this incident of his career, he was wont to quote the Saviour's, "It shall be given you in that hour what to speak;" not by way of an apology, but rather in the confidence of an assurance. He spoke to say that if the hand of Providence had guided events to this crisis, must not the battle be fought out here, between truth and falsehood? As to his convictions on the subject, he could make no question that Maud would speedily come to confession of the truth, and so all would be well; for confession was the overthrow of evil. According to his view, there was no room for supposing that Hope would be benefited by such a removal. 
               To this Miss Gladstone, perceiving more and more clearly the real danger in which Maud was placed, in the impulse of preservation, said, hurriedly, and the marked contrast between this and her usual way of speaking, could not escape her listeners. 
               "I cannot take the view that you take. Maud Saltonstall is not to be judged, except according to the proof of guilt. She is but a child; until now we have all regarded her as a child. She is but sixteen." 
               "And when you reflect upon it," said Mr. Stanton, "does it not appear to you that in just such a youth, the deceiver of souls would be likely to seek a helper? He loves a conspicuous victim. New England would be shaken were it but known that he had obtained a foothold in a family like this, in a character like hers. I beseech you, Miss Gladstone, lend us your aid in thwarting his devices, and secure his overthrow. We cannot but meet him-there is no safety in flight. This, before God, is my solemn conviction. It only remains for her to be 
                     pursuaded
                     persuaded
                   of the actuality of that whereof she is-" he hesitated before uttering the word, but, commanding himself, he uttered it-"accused." 
               His appeal, spoken in a low and hurried tone; his tears-for he did weep; his control of the emotion which yet had so much power with him, had the effect to make Miss Gladstone more calm, but she herself felt that it was a calmness that could not last long. There might be truth in his words; of the sincerity of his own convictions, at least, there was no room to doubt. 
               "It seems to me," she said, "that all precautions should be taken before such a charge should be allowed any weight in even your own mind. What and if that very charge be the device of Satan? It seems to me, of the two, most probable. I should say, were the case laid before me for counsel-and is it not? and ought it not to be?-it would be our duty to ascertain the true nature of Miss Rossiter's condition, before-" 
               "Certainly!" broke in Mr. Rossiter; his voice was full 
                     of of
                     of
                   gratitude-some fresh courage he had drawn from her words. 
               "Certainly," asserted Mr. Stanton, "though it would be prudent also to guard against a materialistic argument, to which we might unguardedly be led. You surely do not intend to deny a faith in the existence of spiritual powers! The Scripture is one entire proof of their existence. When Job was afflicted was his spiritual conflict to be traced to the depressions and other effects of a disordered system? Sickness that grew out of his prosperity? or had Satan anteriorally presented himself before the Lord and obtained permission to try him to the uttermost?" 
               For a moment, and it may be, from this moment, the argument had the form of a mere argument to his mind, as if, having assumed a point, his determination was to retain it. This was evident to Miss Gladstone, yet she hardly dared to suspect, much less allow it. She hesitated in her answer so long, that Mr. Stanton, suspicious, as it seemed, of what was passing in her mind, said: 
               "That I hope with you, madam, it is almost an injustice to myself to say, as if there were room for suspicion to the contrary!" 
               "I am quite persuaded that I shall be able to answer all our hopes if I go to Maud and speak with her," said Margaret Gladstone. 
               Mr. Rossiter was willing to grant this, too; his actions said so, and his look; yet he looked at Mr. Stanton, it was all in his hands. Mr. Stanton, after deliberation, and it was a prayerful deliberation, said: 
               "I cannot, of course, oppose such a proceeding, but I should argue strongly against it. Would you, madam, on reflection, be willing to incur the responsibility that would thenceforth devolve upon you? However pure your purpose may be, and that is beyond suspicion, are you so certain that the guilelessness, as you call it, of your charge may not prove a most efficient weapon in her hands? Miss Rossiter's deliverance rests wholly on the confession of Maud Saltonstall that she has been influenced by a power emphatically of this world, in her acts; I venture to assert that nothing will so much avail her as the child's conviction that you, madam, have also set your face against the evil." 
               Miss Gladstone sat silent. His words had weight with her. She, in truth, did 
                     not not
                     not
                   dare assume that responsibility of which he spoke; at least not yet. Authority was a great point with her. Mr. Stanton had manifestly spoken out his true convictions; resistance here to the force of his words might, she felt, be to her own peril; would be to incur a great responsibility. It might be an act defiant of the inspiration of one whose life was spent in studying the will of God. 
               She did not signify her conviction, but merely her submission, when she asked him, as now she did, what he proposed to do. He told her that he would speak to Maud again that night, and that he was persuaded Maud's best interest required that she should be left, meanwhile, alone. 
               Then, making no objection to this, Miss Gladstone urged, that at least a physician should be called to attend to Hope, and investigate the matter, so far as he should be able; insisting that they could not be justified in pursuing the charge of Hope until they had first ascertained whether her suffering did not proceed from some physical cause. 
               They promised her this should be done. Mr. Rossiter, with a readiness that revealed the manner in which he regarded the suggestion, but Mr. Stanton, with the air of a man who is compelled to regard every point in the conduct of the suit entrusted to him, with jealous eyes. He was a servant of the Lord, the ordained defender of his brethren's souls, and besides, a mortal lover, watching the life of his beloved. 
               Another chapter will afford some light as to the manner in which Margaret Gladstone regarded these proceedings. 
             
             
                
               LVII. IS THERE NO BALM IN GILEAD? 
               IT was now in the evening. 
               Miss Gladstone had also heard the cry of Maud for Archibald; hearing it, she went instantly out from the room where she was reading, and the next moment met Kensett as he came down stairs. 
               Without ceremony, he caught her arm as he drew near. 
               "For God's sake, come with me," he exclaimed; and she went with him. He never stopped in his hasty strides till he had come to the stile at the end of the garden. 
               There he let go her arm, and confronted her: 
               "Did you hear her call me, Miss Gladstone?" 
               "When I met you, I was going to learn the cause of that cry." 
               "Cry-yes! it was a cry! Sharp, strong, fearful. What are they doing, Miss Gladstone? What has happened to this house? Where is Hope Rossiter? What has Jerome Stanton to do with our Maud alone in Mr. Rossiter's study?" 
               Margaret did not bid him be calm, but there was that in her voice that made him so, when she said: 
               "Have you heard nothing, Archibald?" 
               "Nothing." 
               "Hope Rossiter has been very singularly afflicted for some time past, and to-day the disorder has broken out in fearful manifestations, the cause of which is attributed to our dear Maud." 
               "To her! How?" demanded Kensett, with a stern authority. 
               "Bewitched." 
               "Miss Rossiter?" 
               "Yes." 
               "By Maud?" 
               "By Maud." 
               Wild words, unutterable, rushed to the lips of Kensett. The workings of his pale face expressed, he did not, could not, speak them. Not until he could speak calmly, did he ask: 
               "What are they going to do with her?" 
               "Leave her alone until she confesses, I believe." 
               "She will not confess. She never will. Why should she?" 
               Miss Gladstone was silent. 
               "Truth itself would as soon be capable of falsehood as she." 
               "You do not then credit the accusation?" She seemed to ask this question-the words came forth in the form of an interrogation. 
               "Credit it!" A torrent of words seemed ready to burst from him, but again he checked them by his will. 
               "The flowers in that garden might as soon be accused of stealing their beauty from God, as she her power from the devil! Oh, Miss Gladstone, do you credit that vile blasphemy, that evil speaking against the fair work of God?" 
               "There have been such things. In the old times, and always, I suppose, there has been possession of devils. I will not say it is a false charge, but I will say that it is impossible for me to believe it from anything that I have seen. Quite impossible, Archibald." Thus spoke Margaret. 
               "Oh," said Kensett, with a groan, "I feared that you were doubting Maud! I feared that you were doubting Maud Saltonstall." 
                
               Miss Gladstone was silent. 
               Then he elevated his voice, and said, with hurried, yet most solemn utterance: 
               "My hands are crowded with the vials of my wrath!" 
               Miss Gladstone interrupted him; she attempted to say, soothingly, 
               "Throw them away, Kensett; they are fit for no earthly, still less for any heavenly purpose. We must serve her. We who know her best, believe that all this is a cruel, cruel mistake. Yet, who can tell? If the work be . . . ." 
               "Are you halting between two opinions?" exclaimed Kensett, horrified by her hesitation-the question bursting from him in fiery utterance. 
               "Between my firm belief, and a thought of the gravity of this charge, and who it is that makes it. Yes, I own I am. Consider, if it be a mistake, how we shall correct it. It is this that we must think of. Be calm! oh, be calm! 
               "I could hear that better on board a sinking ship, on the verge of eternity, than here-curses-" 
               "Be still! nothing short of calmness will avail us. It is for her, Archibald." There was authority in her voice that controlled him. 
               Kensett turned abruptly away from Margaret, and walked back to the house. The same conflict which he now perceived to be acting in her mind, was already influencing his; and the assurance that it was so, from her lips, had sanctioned the conduct of the controversy in his own mind. How should he be able to escape a doubt which one like Miss Gladstone must entertain? Up and down the garden, the little narrow enclosure, he walked-no longer had he eye or ear for his companion in the anguish of that night-there he walked, and prayed not, but cast over and over again in his mind the whole question that was involved in this charge brought against Maud Saltonstall. 
               It 
                     was was
                     was
                   true; he must be calm. If he strove against man's delusions, or the devil's wiles, he must be calm. Personal prowess would avail nothing in this conflict. The contest was one either of intellectual or spiritual character. He must battle by argument, or prevail by prayer. This conviction impressed itself upon him; even while he felt his total unfitness for any but a physical warfare, he perceived its inefficiency. 
               Who then would listen to his arguments? What were his arguments? Were he but conscious of even so much as the presence of an angel, how would he wrestle with him? but, "over him the skies were brass;" his prayers might beat against that wall, but they would find no entrance. Faith had no victory yet. 
               He conceived, and truly, that though Hope had made her charge, and Maud had been acquainted with it, what had been said to Maud as yet must have been spoken with a view to discover the truth of the case; it could not be that any one regarded the accusation as final. There was a trifle of comfort in this. Hope might withdraw the charge; might be persuaded of a mistake. But-if that charge were true! how could he argue? how could he pray with this fearful doubt ever returning upon him? 
               Youth, in all its glory; love, in all its strength, concentrated the whole interest of heaven and earth, and all time, into this one point. In this issue of life, the Christian man and the human hero confronted each other, and their struggle could not be a brief one. For the hero would battle with the man, and the Christian might not fly, might not surrender. Fight a good fight, oh valiant youth! earth has no hiding-place for cowards. In this struggle thy soul's energy in striving is thy most proper prayer. 
               The blood runs hot and wild within him-his thoughts are passionate and desperate-the child, defenceless: the lady of his love, his all of earth! But, he must be calm. Let despair reserve its anguish: while life lasts there is hope. 
                
               The physician, who, in compliance with Margaret Gladstone's demand, was called to attend Hope Rossiter, was a young man, destitute of no qualifications needful in his calling, but prudence and experience. He was a member of Mr. Rossiter's congregation, a godly youth, who worshipped Hope afar off, and did homage to all her surroundings, not excepting Mr. Stanton. Day by day he was acquiring a reputation for his pleasing address, fluent speech, and actual skill in his profession. 
               No advantages that he possessed, availed him in his investigation of this case now submitted to him. He could not in any way account for the condition in which he found his patient, and he freely acknowledged his incapacity. Epilepsy was not known to him in any of its features. He listened to the charge of Hope, or rather to the explanation she was able to give of her state; an explanation which contained an accusation, and he did not even offer to administer to her. He simply believed her statement, and expressed his conviction that nostrums would be of no avail; that the Physician of souls, and not of Bodies, had the work to do. 
               He expressed this conviction to Hope's father, and Mr. Stanton, and fully concurred with them in the opinion that the remedies to be applied must be used for Maud's benefit; as Mr. Stanton justly said, she was the person who needed ministration, and her case did not come within his jurisdiction. 
               And so the young man took himself away, carrying with him a secret as momentous as weighed on any mind in all that colony or commonwealth. 
             
             
                
               LVIII. MAUD'S COUNSELLOR. 
               THROUGH the long hours of the night Kensett revolved the question in his mind, which Miss Gladstone had not roused, but which she had, by her own perplexity and doubting, warranted. Impatiently he waited for the morning light, and, when it came, he went from his chamber determined on an interview with Hope Rossiter herself. He would not oppose Mr. Stanton; haply, indeed, he might so fight against the Lord. He would not oppose Mr. Stanton, lest he might turn the discussion into one in which individual skill should obtain the fairest hearing! and, in such a case as this, he feared the advantage Stanton's coolness might give him. But he would see Hope Rossiter; there was something that he could do, and so he sought her mother. He said to her, on whom the past day's calamity had wrought an effect not produced by the preceding two years of varied anxiety and care, to her he said, and to her it seemed a reasonable thing for him to say in that time of trouble, for well she knew what was in his heart: 
               "You never will mistake my wish, Mrs. Rossiter; if I could see your daughter this morning, it is not vanity that leads me to say, I believe it would not be in vain. I believe-" 
               "What do you believe, Archibald?" she asked eagerly, some great hope looking from her eyes. She dropped the work that occupied her, and came close up to him and grasped his hand, and gazed into his face, as if already she beheld in him a deliverer. 
               "I might be of some service in some way," said he, taken aback by this confidence she expressed, this reliance she had been so swift to put upon him, the largeness of her hope dwarfed instantly, in his own mind, the probabilities of the service he should be able to render, but did not shake his purpose. The mother must look now into his determined face, rather than hearken to his words, and this she did. Her heart must not so swiftly lose its unhoped-for consolation, as she said: 
               "Your face puts more courage in me than I've felt before. Oh, heaven bless you. You shall see Hope, if I can compass it." 
               "Not secretly," said Kensett, drawing himself up proudly. 
               "Certainly not," she responded, in a tone that equalled his. And what did Kensett then, but throw his arms around her neck, as if she had been his mother, and their tears fell together. Then, like a true woman, Grace Rossiter was the first to recover herself. 
               "Dear Archie," she said, for the first time taking on her lips the name by which Maud knew him, "I know that you will help us. God send us a happier night than morning. Our poor, poor birdie! The house without her song is like a sepulchre." 
               "Mrs. Rossiter, there is one that heeds the sparrow's fall. The bird will sing again, or-or-" No. This would not do. He was not apt in consolations. 
               "The cage will be a prison," she suggested; she was the more hopeful of the two. 
               "And the whole forest full of gloom," said he. 
               "If it may be, it shall be that you see my daughter," said Mrs. Rossiter, turning away from him to her labors. She spoke rapidly, but resolutely-with decision; and to look upon her face was to perceive that a new light had broken on Grace Rossiter. If Maud Saltonstall loved Kensett, it was because Kensett, with his heart and understanding, first loved her. 
               It actually happened, before noon that day, that Mr. Stanton himself went to Kensett and invited him into Hope Rossiter's room; but this was not the result of her mother's persuasion, but of the expression of Hope Rossiter's own wish. Mr. Stanton was the bearer of the summons, and he accompanied Kensett to Hope's chamber. 
               Something of the clergyman's manner insensibly communicated itself to Kensett, as he followed in his steps up to that room. Something of its constraint and rigidity; there was such a seriousness in his demeanour as perhaps became the occasion, but not the man, as he went in and spoke to Hope. This was not such gravity as was natural to him. It would have been painful to Maud to see; would have needed an explanation, had she beheld it. Even his sympathy here was not such as any, knowing him, had looked for on an occasion of distress; it was like a spring in winter; icy-with none of its accustomed life and fulness, though pure and clear, and, it might be, refreshing. 
               But Hope Rossiter had suffered fearfully; Archibald was startled at the evidences of this suffering when he beheld her; and it may have been the positiveness of this proof, afforded in her person, that the strangeness and suddenness of her affliction must have had some cause beside imagination, that wrought the sudden change he felt in his heart towards her, when he came into her presence. 
               It might be, it might be-Oh, blasting and cruel thought, returning to him here with new force and bitterness!-it might be that there was truth in that charge! He would have flown away from all that took the form of proof, had he acted on the impulse of the moment in which he crossed that threshold; but, it was Maud that was accused! Well, he would have flown with her beyond the reach of accusation! but . . . it might be to perdition. He had lived, then, to repent the vows he had made to God! but, for those vows, he were not sacrificing in this desert. He dared not look into this matter, yet he had, in his own mind, insisted upon doing so; and, lo! here was the opportunity! 
               Hope was the first to speak when the young men went into the room together. She was standing before the window, whose curtain was now drawn, was standing there with an out-looking purpose; when they entered she turned to them, and spoke to Archibald. With a gentle reproach she spoke. It came naturally from her; but her heart beat faster, tumultuously, and her face flushed, as she asked him, Why had he not been to see her till now? The words were nothing, but they surprised the listeners-surprised them both. 
               "If any one can influence Maud to do that which is right, it is you, Mr. Kensett," said she, quickly, and seriously, but she could not entirely undo that former speaking, though it may have been her purpose. 
               "What arguments shall I use with her, Miss Rossiter?" asked Kensett. "It is you that must instruct me." 
               "I instruct you!" Again she hastened to correct herself; to speak in compliance with the occasion, not in accordance with her thoughts. Those strange thoughts, so dear and yet so wicked; so precious, yet so monstrous. "Say what you will, I can leave it to you. Whatever you shall say to her will be the best that can be said. I think you understand her. Do you not agree with me, Mr. Stanton?" Hope turned and looked at him she addressed; the sudden appeal confused him, he hesitated when he should have answered. 
               He did not agree with her; he would not have listened to the proposition, had it proceeded from any one but Hope; and it staggered him, coming from her, until he recollected that even this manner of speaking was some new evidence. 
               Kensett had started up at her words, and maintained himself self in that position, which proclaimed his instant readiness to go; but, when he looked from Hope to Mr. Stanton, waiting his answer, he was aware of his mistake in evincing that readiness so promptly, yet, having thus expressed himself, he did not withdraw the expression. 
               At length spoke Mr. Stanton; he was the lover of Hope Rossiter-how could he but yield? 
               "It may be well for Mr. Kensett to see the child," said he. "I will go with him. But, do you wish it immediately done, Miss Hope?" 
               "Yes." Was this quick, eager voice the voice of Hope Rossiter? 
               They both turned instantly toward the door to go; her bidding admitted no delay, but Hope arrested their steps; it was only to say to Kensett she must know from him the result of his investigation. 
               Together the young men proceeded across the passage to Margaret Gladstone's chamber, which Maud had occupied during the night alone, Mr. Stanton still leading the way. But when he came to the door of the room, he stood aside, saying to Kensett: 
               "You will be welcome here, request admission." 
               Instantly Kensett made good that opportunity, and Stanton only heard the words: 
               "Maud, I have come to speak with you." 
               The door opened as by magic, for Maud Saltonstall heard more than Stanton; she heard the voice of Kensett. 
               The windows of the room were raised, and the shutters opened wide; it was light and cheerful there. Maud stood before them with a book in her hand, she had been studying. 
               The joy with which she greeted Kensett did not in the least lessen, was not in the least checked by the appearance of Mr. Stanton. She brought a chair for Kensett, but she did not speak. She waited for him, and as she waited she looked at him, and her pleasure was not hindered by the influences he brought with him in his person from Hope Rossiter's chamber. For none of these had she perceived in her gladness. 
               Neither did Kensett speak; why was he there? to pursue the examination of the girl before him! Actually with this purpose! he had not a word to say. 
               This delay was all a waste of time; a delay not favorable to the purpose with which they were come together. Mr. Stanton prepared himself-to speak. Now Kensett understood the preliminaries, and was hurried on by them; it was he who must open and conduct whatever conversation passed here this day. This was an opportunity by no means to be lost through careless dealing. So he said, in a tone of voice that quite satisfied Mr. Stanton, and startled Maud: 
               "Maud, what have you to say about this, this dreadful accusation that is brought against you, Maud?" 
               In spite of the tone of the question-so entirely to the purpose, and the question so wonderfully to the point, as Mr. Stanton thought-Maud Saltonstall looking into Kensett's eyes, satisfied with what she read there, drew nearer to him, and answered by another question: 
               "What do you think, Archibald?" 
               The words staggered Kensett. The presence in which the questioning must be conducted, embarrassed him. He was ready from his heart to pronounce the whole charge false, but there was Hope Rossiter before his eyes, and should he further the counsel of Satan? 
               Yet here was Maud Saltonstall; what soul but could read innocence, and purity, as well as beauty in that face? 
               Still, in a restrained manner which she interpreted again, according to the confiding trust she felt in him, he said: 
               "I am not the one to be questioned on this subject, Maud. It matters little what I think. You have had a long time to reflect on the answer you should give to such a question. All the past night. But you slept perhaps?" 
               "I was not thinking of that," she said. 
                
               He asked her: 
               "Of what were you thinking, Maud?" But the next instant he would fain have recalled that question. It was too late. Any attempt to recall it would arouse the suspicions of Mr. Stanton, that in some way he was endeavoring, and would still endeavor, to thwart discovery. 
               "I was thinking, Archie, how it was ever going to happen that I should be believed against Hope Rossiter." She was glad to tell him this; she obviously looked for some enlightenment, some strengthening word from him. 
               Here spoke Mr. Stanton, grasping at the opportunity, yet deliberate in the utterance which that opportunity secured. 
               "God will be gracious to you. He will enable you to see how fearful a delusion has been wrought by your self-confidence and ignorance of those spiritual things wherein you are exercised. To this end we pray, as we have prayed without ceasing, that your understanding may be enlightened. Mr. Kensett joins with us in these prayers. He has told you of the sleepless night your obduracy hath cost him!" 
               Oh that was a rare word that "obduracy," to bring into this connection! It precisely expressed Mr. Stanton's mind, but it tore and stung the heart of Kensett, and it rankled like a drop of subtle poison in the brain of Maud. 
               She did not in any way reply to him; in truth, she knew not what to say; yet still she trusted Kensett. And had he truly never slept through all that night, for her sake? She never took her eyes from him while he was saying- 
               "That we may all be enlightened I do heartily beseech our heavenly Father. No one more heartily desires than I, that your soul may have divine illumination, Maud. Mr. Stanton has explained the meaning of all that has produced so much confusion in this-family. How have you thought of it, Maud? Do not smile. I assure you this is no occasion. Tell me-me, Maud." He drew nearer to her; he was entreating her. 
                
               "I will tell you," she said, responding to his word instantly. Kensett avoided Mr. Stanton's glance as she said this, it was the tone in which she said it, rather than the word, that moved him. "In the first place I felt as I did once in a dream, when I thought I was chased by the Indians through the woods, until I came to a steep rock-I jumped down-I shut my eyes-I expected to be dashed to pieces. But when I got to the bottom, after falling, and falling, I found myself alone in a quiet place, like a garden, but more beautiful than I ever saw, and there was some one there to lead me. But now . . ." She paused. 
               "How is it now?" asked Mr. Stanton. 
               "I am like a star," she said, turning towards him speaking promptly, and proudly, as if conscious, now that Kensett was near, that she was far beyond him, "safe and still, sir." She did not say, because Archibald is here, but Kensett knew that was upon her tongue. 
               He saw Mr. Stanton brushing a tear from his eye; he saw that the minister's face wore now a softened expression; and he said, doing a mighty violence to every impulse and feeling within him, trusting, while he did it, that, as he spoke so manifestly against his human will, it might prove to be by inspiration, and so to God's glory. 
               "How is it, Maud, that Miss Rossiter attributes all she suffers to some unfortunate influence of your exerting?" 
               "Does she suffer, Archie?" 
               "She has suffered fearfully. It would grieve you to know how much. She is very ill; I mean she suffers." 
               "On account of me?" 
               "That is the charge she brings, Maud." 
               "She is very wise, I know, and I never thought could speak untruly," said Maud, musing, her fair young face revealing all her soul's perplexity. 
               Mr. Stanton drew himself up to hear this. A new expectation took the place of pity. Under the power of illuminating ing grace, she was certainly beginning to see what he had in vain, by his words, aimed to bring before her. He looked at Kensett hopefully, with great favor he looked at him; the cloud was breaking. Already his soul raised the song of thanksgiving. There was going to be a triumph of the truth to-day. 
               "We know that she is wise, far beyond her years in attainment, and no one would believe that she could speak a falsehood," said Kensett. 
               Maud looked at him a little troubled. Was it his belief, as well as Mr. Stanton's, that she alone was in darkness? That the accusation of Hope Rossiter was in no way a mistake? That seemed to be his meaning. And she answered, for that Kensett should believe this staggered her confidence in herself: 
               "If what Hope says is true, wouldn't I feel it?" Then she recollected what Mr. Stanton had said, and what Kensett had but now said with apparently the same intent. 
               "If it is so, and I cannot feel it, it must be dreadful. Mr. Stanton, what could I do then?" 
               Strong man though he was, Mr. Stanton started in amazement at this question. She had now appealed directly to him! he was all unprepared for this sudden surrender. Was it a surrender? But when he looked at Kensett, and saw him overwhelmed, he recovered himself, there must be instant action here. 
               "You could do," he said, "what you will, I doubt not. Humbly and prayerfully seek for the help and enlightenment of Him, before whom the devils believe and tremble." These last words were spoken in a loud tone of voice as if defying the power whose authority he dared to question. 
               "How shall I seek it, Archie?" said Maud, turning from him now to Kensett. She might perhaps learn the lesson of him, but not from Mr. Stanton. 
               "Maud," said he, "you do not need that I should teach you how to pray to our Father in heaven. If you ask Him to enlighten you, no doubt that He will do so. He never refuses to hear." 
               "But what if I shall pray?" continued the earnest, subdued, questioning voice, "and I will-I have, and if it seems to me that I never can say yes, where I say no, now, what will you and Mr. Stanton say, Archie?" 
               Kensett started as she named his name with Mr. Stanton's. He saw how she had associated them in this matter. He had hoped that she would discern the distinction there really was between her counsellors. But she evidently did not. He could say nothing to convince her of the distinction-certainly not in Mr. Stanton's presence-and under other circumstances it might be neither just nor proper, neither right for man or Christian. 
               "We will trust in God who has promised never to forsake those who trust in Him," he said, waiving the immediateness and speciality of her question. 
               The reply satisfied her; and her satisfaction aided Kensett in the utterance of the prayer which Stanton now invited him to offer. He prayed from a pure heart, fervently, and it was such a petition as drew a more fervent amen from Maud even, than from Mr. Stanton. 
               When they had risen from their knees, Maud went up to Mr. Stanton, and said: 
               "Sir, might I go now to Miss Rossiter?" 
               "Not yet," answered he; "she must give her consent of course." He answered Kensett as well as Maud, for Kensett's quick and hopeful glance had repeated her question. 
               "It seems so strange-so strange to think of-but if you will go. . . ." She stopped and looked at Kensett. It was not easy to ask one so well trusted to leave her, but strengthened anew by some other thought, she went on. "I would as soon be left alone. I will think of it, as you say. But if I cannot see it any different from what I do-did, I mean-what will-you do?" 
               She faltered as she asked this question, but it was becoming urgent in her brain. She had requested them to leave her, but she would have them remain until that question was answered. 
               "Will she surrender through fear?" thought Kensett, but he said out loftily, spirit to spirit: 
               "You will even be true, Maud." 
               She smiled, and said as proudly: 
               "Do you think, Mr. Kensett, I could speak an untruth?" 
               "No!" 
               "Sooner than Hope Rossiter?" 
               "No!" His emphasis and gesture were full of confidence in her. Deeply satisfied she turned away. 
               "I knew it," she said. "I knew you would believe me." 
               "I can trust you alone with God," said Kensett, and the two men went forth together; and this time Archibald Kensett led the way. 
             
             
                
               LIX. PITY-FOR WHOM? 
               AS they passed by the door of Hope Rossiter's room, Kensett paused. 
               "Go in," said Mr. Stanton, and he himself rapped against Hope's door. Her mother opened it. That pale anxious face was bathed again in its morning's light as she looked at Kensett. She was quick to perceive the change in his countenance. Only a moment she hesitated on the threshold, then she laid her hand upon his shoulder, and drew him, not reluctant, into the room. Closing the door again, he observed that he and Hope were alone there together. Hope's mother trusted what she read in his eyes, but as she went down the stairs with Mr. Stanton, she asked of him no explanation-she hurried on lest he should give it her unasked-from Archibald himself she would hear the result of that interview. 
               Had he anything to say to her? Kensett read this question in Hope's eyes as he approached her. How like her mother was the girl to-day! She was no more the Hope Rossiter of an hour, than of a week ago. How young she looked; hardly older than Maud; pale, suffering, troubled; all true; yet to-day she had her mother's mildest glance of eye, and her gentle, kindly expression of feature. She had none of the fresh glory of Maud's youth, but was wasted, and worn, and heavy-leaden with the unnatural burdens she had during the past years assumed; burdens whose heaviness was but now becoming apparent, in the revolt of her enslaved, neglected nature. As he advanced to her, Kensett's heart softened to pity her. 
               "Miss Rossiter," he said, "we have left Maud at her own request. She does not seem disposed to dispute what has been alleged, as she did at first. She will, I feel assured, calmly wait now until God shall enlighten her. She acquiesces in our wish that for the present she should remain in her own room. You need therefore feel no longer under the restraint of a prisoner in your own father's house." 
               Hope shook her head, but did not answer him otherwise, and Kensett sat down, deliberate in his attempt to persuade her. 
               He had formed no plan of speech. Something he hoped from the interview with Maud, but in what way good should come of it he could not have told. So slight as this was the foundation of Mrs. Rossiter's belief that all would soon be well. 
               Inexplicable as it seemed to him, Kensett perceived that in some way he was now involved, agent or actor, in this unhappy business. If Maud's whole trust was in him, and his appearing had inspired her with courage as well as humility, Hope was no less surely relying on him in some way beyond his apprehension, for support, or comfort, or deliverance. 
               When he had spoken, and she did not answer, there was that in the manner of her listening, that constrained him to go on. She herself had drawn him into this service at the very time when he cursed the fate that prevented his endeavor, and he spoke, although he knew not in that hour what he should speak. 
               Hitherto in all their conversations, these two persons had been apparently conscious of a barrier between them. At this time Kensett gave no intimation that he was aware of its removal; he was not aware of it, though it had fallen before the eyes of Hope. Before her eyes it had fallen. What hindered their mutual approach? It was not of Maud Saltonstall that she would have him speak. It was not of her own calamity. No book had any theme to interest her. Kensett's voice even was torture to her while he went from one subject to another, and left untouched that sacred theme on which she would not for her life have had him dwell. 
               She sat like a statue before him in a state of stony indifference; it was the only disguise she could master. He avoided all mention of Maud. It was not a name he would willingly speak in that hearing. How kind in his speech he was. How he felt in his heart, past his mind's understanding, that Hope was a creature for pity. 
               While he spoke, trying to interest her, endeavoring to rouse her from the stupor into which she seemed to have fallen, she sat with her eyes hidden from him, and they lifted but rarely to meet his glance. He could not read their meaning. There was nothing there for him; but, they moved his heart to pity. He could have besought Heaven for her. The question of Maud's guilt was not agitated, yet there was occasion for compassion here. Why? Had he been questioned, it is certain he could not have told. 
               With some new thoughts he was surveying her; with some thoughts not called forth immediately by this occasion. Hope Rossiter perceived this, and the perception was not more sudden than joyous. Joyous, for it seemed to her, in that moment, that she could understand him, and it was upon her lips to acquaint him with what she believed to be in his own heart; but, she said instead, for to some utterance her heart compelled her, and for the first time since he returned to her room, she entered voluntarily on the subject whose business brought him there. 
               "You do pity me." 
               "God knows that is the truth," he answered instantly. 
               "Help me, then," she demanded hurriedly. 
                
               "Only point out the way," he said as earnestly. 
               Give me back my peace." 
               "Oh, would to Heaven I could! Tell me, how shall I do it?" His answer held her for a moment. She never could recall the glance that fell like lightning on the soul of Kensett, but, with a mighty power of self-control, she answered: 
               "Alas! how should I know!" For a moment she was overwhelmed by her own words, or by the desolating fact it proclaimed, then she rallied. 
               "I thought it might have been given you to say; how should I know the word?" With searching eyes she gazed now on his face; she read there only sorrow, only bewilderment, nothing more. She need not then have feared herself so much; she had made no betrayal. "Well-go, but do not let her come here. Will you see her again?" 
               If you desire it, Hope, I will." 
               "No. . . I desire nothing. It's best not. You can go now-will you? But, Mr. Kensett, tell them I am better, for I actually am, and I don't need any one. Keep Maud away, and Miss Gladstone, and every one. If there should be anything to say, you can tell me. I know you pity Maud. Look. . . . Look after her, Mr. Kensett. I know you pity her." 
               Though she had bidden him go, Kensett still lingered there. What would he say? Words he dared not utter claimed an utterance, while he stood looking at Hope. He could almost have believed the accusation she had made, but, not against Maud Saltonstall. Fear, as well as pity, stirred his heart, but he stood and gazed, and remained silent, until Hope said to him again: 
               "I shall be better now alone; but, say to mother, I am better. I really am." 
               Without speaking, Archibald bowed himself out of the room, and then Hope Rossiter threw herself upon her knees to weep, but not to pray, and the weeping was not prayer. 
             
             
                
               LX. THE SPIRITS ABROAD. 
               THINKING, thinking, thinking; and what could ever come out of such thought? Maud, when she was left alone, resolved to pray, to examine herself, to discover if she were really deceiving herself. If what the whole house, perhaps, believed, were indeed true, what would they have her think and feel? What would they have her do? 
               This self-examination was a new work, and difficult as new. It is easy work for none, if done in earnest and in truth. Agonizing as the desperate endeavor of the soul that, by searching, attempts to find out God. How could she prove to herself that she had been under the diabolic influences in those last days; those very days which had been growing brighter and brighter to her vision, until this great cloud arose? How could she satisfy herself that all her good resolves were but deceptions and beguilements of the devil? But, there must be some discovery for her to make. Must she not have greatly changed since she came to live under that roof? Debby Lynch, she recollected, had told her very recently that there was no such thing as understanding her, and Maud remembered how the dear child cried when she said it. Perhaps, that was a proof of something, but of what? Maud smiled and blushed, aye, smiled and blushed, when she discovered what she believed to be the cause of Deb's complaint. Since Archie and she had become such good true friends, and had somehow taken possession of each other's thoughts and time, it was all true that Debby had been less and less in her companion's mind. Maud would forget her as she came from and went to school; Maud lost sight of her in the classes; Maud thought of many things with thoughts Deb could not share, which, at least, she must not share. The questioning girl recalled and settled this point, I say, with a smile, but the smile passed again; perhaps, somehow, happy though she had been, it might be true that even this new friendship was an evil thing! It might be, for Maud's investigation went back as far as her childhood and her native home; it might be that even there, that even since her birth, she had been under the dominion of evil; for the changes manifested in herself were, after all, but such as are attendant upon growth. In this conclusion, she finally merged all her efforts at examination and investigation. For, as since she could remember, she had been ever the same as now, only developing, as she could well perceive, year by year and, year by year becoming more happy, and-yes! she really thought-more wise; it could only be that, in the beginning, she was placed under an adverse dominion, which had never been withheld, but constantly increased, in extent and authority, until it covered and absorbed her life. 
               But-here she startled herself with the question-did not all Mr. Stanton's and Mr. Rossiter's, and even Archie Kensett's prayers confess as much of themselves, and all the human race? Was it not ever on their lips that they had been evil and had done evil continually? 
               What, then, could Hope Rossiter mean? Deeper and darker grew the mystery. But, she had promised Kensett she would pray, and, indeed, without the promise, it was clear before Maud's mind there was no other thing that she could do. . . All this reflection availed nothing; it was but putting forth upon an unknown sea in the midst of midnight darkness. She could but pray. 
                
               The rain came down in torrents on the roof, the day ended in the violence of storm, but Maud Saltonstall, whose prayers had heretofore been bursts of thanksgiving and joyous recognitions, and acceptances of life, were changed to beseechings for light and strength, and the repentance that needeth no repentance. She, unmindful of the storm and the descending night, knelt wrestling with the angel sent to enlighten her. 
               It was while she prayed that Margaret Gladstone came in with a light, and this was what the lady did: she stood against the door, which she had closed, holding her lamp in her hand, looking at Maud in silence. Maud, hearing her, rose up and beheld her, and when Miss Gladstone, incapable of speech, stood silent, she went up to her: 
               "Are you afraid, too?" she asked. 
               "Afraid! my blessed child!" 
               "Did you call me blessed?" 
               "Forever so to me." 
               "Not if what Hope says is true." 
               "Forever so to me." 
               "You have come to stay here, then?" 
               "I came to bring the light, for Mrs. Rossiter is ill and needs me below." 
               "Then you must go. If she asks you about me, say-say-" 
               "What shall I say, my blessed child?" 
               "Say it is well with me. I am sorry that she suffers." 
               "Then I can ask you to do two things, my darling; go to bed, and go to sleep, and I know that you will do it." 
               "I will, Miss Gladstone. But wait! Listen. I have seen you coming in at that door a hundred times, but I never saw you like an angel till now. What sent you?" 
               "I could not sleep till I had kissed you. I came early, that you might not be wakened." 
               "And are you going to kiss me?" 
                
               Margaret Gladstone's countenance changed and paled; the answer that she made was this; she folded Maud within her arms, as though they were the wings of an angelic protection; again and again kissed her, and then said: 
               "Remember, you have promised me, darling. I shall see you in the morning." 
               Brief as this visit was, and restricted in expression, for so it was if all that was in Miss Gladstone's heart to say be compared with the little she actually uttered, when Maud was again alone, she was in another frame of mind than that of the preceding half hour. She ate the food that was brought to her; she extinguished the light that was left for her, but she did not go to bed. She sat listening to the dropping of the passing storm, watching the flying clouds, and in her heart, sang every hymn she knew. 
               But if she could only see Hope Rossiter herself. If she could only see Hope-only speak to her! Hope she must see! She forgot the promise she had made Miss Gladstone. How could she sleep and dream? How could she think and pray? The hours went on, but she was still there, wakeful, asking herself that question. Not stealthily, as fearful of discovery, but unconscious of everything but the necessity of the moment, Maud finally arose and went from her chamber. 
               Kensett, who had not yet retired, heard her as she passed his door; he knew her step, and he came out to learn why she was there. 
               Instead of retreating when he saw it was she, he advanced towards her hastily; he would have reminded her of her promise to remain in her room, but he could say nothing; he could only follow her back, for when she saw him she retraced her steps, and so into her room; he crossed the threshold even, for she bade him do so by a gesture, and how should he not obey her? She would explain all this to him. 
               "I must go and tell Hope Rossiter that she has made a dreadful mistake," she said. "I know I have promised to remain here, but she will not see me unless I go to her. I must tell her. She must know I have had nothing to do with her." 
               "That will never do," expostulated Kensett; "coming upon her so suddenly while she is so ill-who would dare permit it? Not I. You would not choose to steal in upon her when she does not choose to see you; surely you would not." 
               "Yes, Archie, I would. She ought to know from me that I cannot bear it. And why should I?" He could not evade the force of this direct appeal. His heart was in his words. 
               "You should not, Maud, and this will soon be evident; I firmly believe it. But oh, let the trial of your faith work patience!" 
               "But tell me how is it ever going to end? I have-I have thought, as you say, I would get all the good out of it I could, and be patient, and learn how to endure persecution! but I don't see how it will end. Is Hope Rossiter always going to accuse me? or if she dies, will Mr. Stanton say that I have killed her? or will she get well again, and all be over somehow? That is what I want to know. I cannot stay in my room forever, and if they are afraid of me how shall I ever be free? If they ask me about it in the morning, and Mr. Stanton comes, I cannot say I will think of it, because I have thought, and I know that Hope is mistaken. That is what I was going to ask her; I thought we could talk about it together, alone." 
               So rapidly she spoke, with such earnestness and simplicity, intent on expressing her mind, not on the result that should be produced, that Kensett never thought of interrupting her, but when she had said all, he answered: 
               "Yet you should have waited until morning, on account of your promise; and because she could not bear it to be disturbed at this hour. As you say you could speak more to the purpose if you spoke directly with her, but-be patient! This must have an end." 
               "It never will, if I must confess, as Mr. Stanton called it," said Maud. 
               "But did you not promise Miss Gladstone that you would sleep? Do you think that we can rest when we know that you rest not? All truth must come to light. Be patient." 
               "Well, go." 
               "You are not offended, Maud?" 
               She went across her chamber, and stood there alone. He did not see or know the vain effort she was making to speak, and assure him that she never could be offended at any word of his, so he repeated that question, and was content to go, for his eyes were full of tears, and he fast losing all self-control, when she said faintly-faintly, the dear child: 
               "No, Archie." 
               He would assuredly have gone away to weep, for scalding tears were gathering in his heart, but her need of him exceeded even the extremity of his distress, and he remained yet longer there. 
               It was probably not Mr. Stanton's design to steal stealthily along the passage way in order to surprise whoever might be astir in the house at that hour, but it was thus that he came upon Kensett, as he emerged from the room where Maud was, without so much warning as the sound of a footfall. 
               "Mr. Kensett," said he, and he laid his hand heavily on Archie's arm, "it seems to me sir, this is rather extraordinary. When it was considered best for Maud Saltonstall to be left to her own meditations, it was certainly to be expected that she would also be free from intrusion." 
               "Sir," said Kensett, his habitual deference of speech when he addressed his superiors in age or office, giving no evidence of itself in the passion of the moment, "you are offering an opinion when you are not prepared to judge." He paused, for Maud's sake he controlled himself, and for her sake he said: "Pardon me; if you had been more slow to speak, I had been more slow to wrath. But now, be swift to hear, even as the Scripture enjoins. I heard steps in the passage, as I presume you did. As I had not yet retired, I came out with my light. Maud Saltonstall,"-his voice grew stronger from the moment he spoke her name,-"left to herself, was unable to bear her thoughts. She had forgotten her promise, and was on her way to Miss Rossiter's room, to speak with her. I brought her back, and have succeeded in convincing her it was not a proper purpose, sir." 
               Mr. Stanton bowed as if satisfied with the explanation; turned on his heel, and would have gone. 
               "Stay," said Kensett, suddenly. 
               There was a strange authority in this word as he uttered it, and Mr. Stanton obeyed him. Kensett went up to him and whispered-the minister's coolness maddened him; he said, and every word fell on Stanton's ear distinctly, even as it was pressed out in the heat of passion: 
               "Mr. Stanton, you have taken but one view of this question. You love Hope Rossiter, and would protect her. I love Maud Saltonstall and will defend her!" 
               "And, if, haply, ye be found to fight against God!" was Stanton's warning comment as he went on his way. 
               For an instant Kensett hesitated; fierce words were on his lips, fierce words of wrath, the like of which were never uttered in Mr. Stanton's ear. But, even in the instant of hesitation he turned on his heel, mastered himself, entered his own room, and closed the door behind him, and then the tide of Kensett's thoughts rolled in a new direction. 
             
             
                
               LXI. THE FAMILY. 
               NOW, Mr. Stanton understood perfectly the feeling with which Archibald Kensett said these words. There was that in his voice, deep and concentrated emotion, pathos, passion, and entreaty too, that would render him intelligible to any discerning ear; forever intelligible, one would have supposed him to be, to Mr. Stanton. But Mr. Stanton must attempt to reconcile this revelation Kensett had made, with others, for the purpose of strengthening his foregone conclusions, instead of simply taking them at their worth. 
               He must proceed to a dissection of the character of Kensett; must lay bear all its nerves, discover its impulsiveness, impetuosity, enthusiasm; discern these in their exaggeration; observe their liability to disease, from their extreme susceptibility; until he actually beheld in him the most natural recipient of every evil influence that Maud Saltonstall might have it in her power to communicate. And, now he thought of it, he remembered the repeated occasions on which he had been most unfavorably impressed by the loose speech of Kensett. Until now, he had been disposed to throw a veil of charity over the youth's imperfections of speech, and defects of conduct. Nature did not intend Kensett for an ascetic, but for rational enjoyment of all the goods of life; Stanton, who had more than once shaken his head in the hearing of such convictions as Kensett-rarely though they discoursed together-had expressed to him, now beheld in all this a preparedness, a susceptivity, which could not escape the observation of the originator of this ruin that threatened the family of Mr. Rossiter. 
               Kensett's bold confession of his love, his declaration of himself as Maud's defender at such a time, was an overwhelming evidence against him. If he had not been beside himself, how could he have been lured into such an expression? Had he no power of self-restraint that he could not keep his passion a secret in his breast, at least until something of definiteness and certainty came of all this trouble? Common prudence, worldly wisdom, would have dictated as much as this. Must it not be in the course of God's providence that the events of this night should bring about this exposure of the extent to which the wiles of the adversary had been permitted? 
               Mr. Stanton, it will be perceived, led on by his own passion for Hope Rossiter, had lost the power of surveying things natural, and emotions and thoughts natural, in any other than a supernatural light. A clear-sighted glance, an ordinary lover's jealousy, would have put things into the right position, during that brief interview between Hope and Kensett, at which he was present. He would have seen that in the glance, have heard that in the voice of Hope Rossiter, as she looked upon and spoke to Kensett, which would have explained all things; but all her education, pompous as was its show, had given her no knowledge of her own heart, no deep acquaintance with the workings of her own mind, and quite as ignorant, in regard to it, was Mr. Stanton. 
               However, he would not implicate Kensett. He would take no advantage of Archibald's betrayal of himself. 
               But Mr. Stanton did not likewise say to his soul that he would stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord, when, had he willed, he might have done so any day. Yet the possibility of that salvation and deliverance was an article of his belief, and the omniscience and omnipresence of the Redeemer the acknowledged foundation of his faith-the foundation of all that he would build. Builder of wood and stubble! Why should he not know how poor the structure was, that it could never bear the fiery ordeal and test of searching eyes! 
               The train of Archibald Kensett's thoughts, though proceeding from the same point with those of Mr. Stanton, covered ground very different. He feared when he had spoken; he was filled with dismay when he reflected on the mastery his passion had obtained in that brief interview. Fire had flamed against a wall of granite, and could only fall back, roaring, on itself. 
               He shut the door that separated him from the rest of the world-was alone by himself. He had defied Mr. Stanton; perhaps, with him, the Lord whom he had sworn to serve. He had openly avowed his determination to defend Maud Saltonstall, and, now, what could he do? He would defend her, he repeated, but, how? How should he defend her? He had spoken rash and hasty words that placed him in the power of another; he feared the result those words might have. What if indeed he should be found to fight against the Lord? 
               Midnight passing over him found him holding fast the love he had confessed as his one great earthly good, yet looking upward, as Peter might have looked upon his questioning Lord; and Simon's answer to that "Son of Jonas, lovest thou ME," went up also from the heart of Archibald Kensett, "Lord, thou knowest." 
               Earlier in the evening, when Margaret Gladstone went down to Mrs. Rossiter, from Maud, and comforted that gentle heart by telling of her mission, the secret which Kensett revealed to Stanton had an utterance from other lips, for Mrs. Rossiter said to Margaret: 
               "Miss Gladstone, Archibald loves Maud Saltonstall, and Maud loves him." No surprise, no pain, no pleasure, were apparent in the face, or in the voice of her who listened. She asked, quietly: 
               "How knowest thou?" 
               "By a hundred signs that can never be mistaken," and Grace Rossiter clasped her hands upon her forehead and wept. 
               "Who stays with Hope to-night?" asked Margaret, abruptly, in a strong, unbroken voice that checked the tears of Mrs. Rossiter, and unclasped her hands again. 
               "She will have no one," answered the mother, despondingly. 
               "Comfort yourself, Grace, I believe all will be well." 
               "Well," repeated Mrs. Rossiter, as if she pondered that word in wonder, and took no comfort from it. 
               "I believe Hope will be well again," repeated Margaret, as strongly, but more gently than before; "soon, I think." 
               "As Martha's brother was, perhaps, after the resurrection." 
               "Did not Lazarus 'come forth?' Be comforted. Go and rest to-night. The day will come." 
               Now, kindly as these words were spoken, they were a command, and as such Grace Rossiter felt them. She was glad to be led through this trial, and she submitted herself to Margaret, who felt herself called upon to lead her. But she went to bed as sorrowful as fearful. . . She could not have told you had you asked what she believed in reference to her daughter, for, in truth, she knew not what she thought. Hope's danger stunned her; was an apparent fact that passed her power of contemplation; but mention of Maud's name, or the name of Kensett, compelled her heart to tears. 
             
             
                
               LXII. THE VOW. 
               TO the astonishment of the whole house, not even excepting Mr. Stanton, Hope came down from her room by sunrise the next morning. 
               After Kensett left her, and the bent posture into which she fell suggested to her heart no prayer, the silence and solitude of the room fell round her and wrought their influence. She too was silent and alone. There with herself. How had that self betrayed her? in an agony of amazement she thought of those past moments. And how did her maiden pride revolt after the exposure. 
               Why should this be so? What could this tumult, this conflict mean, but that the charge brought against Maud Saltonstall was true to the uttermost? How should she ever have conceived this love-she called it by its name now; Maud had instructed her as to the meaning of the word-how should she ever have come so near its confession, but for Maud? She had looked at him through Maud's eyes; spoken to him with her voice in these last moments. He had not perceived-he had not understood. The tempter had triumphed, though Maud had not beheld it. Yet not utterly triumphed. Kensett had not heard her heart, and her words therefore he had not understood. It was in this light that she stood before herself. What had preserved her in this hour? The thought of Mr. Stanton. And now she turned to him, not merely with gratitude, but with the courage rising from the conviction that she had an earthly protector. He would help her in this contest; there must be triumph in the end. 
               By an effort of will that proved the greatness of her character, Hope rose above her love and fear. The morning should behold her triumph. Kensett had assured her that the freedom of the house was hers; she should not see Maud if she would only return to them again. 
               For her father's sake, and her mother's, then, she would go down in the morning. She would triumph yet. 
               So she lay her exhausted self upon her bed, and her courageous will prepared to combat with the powers of darkness, not knowing that it was a mere human love that had enchained her. That which possessed her should be exorcised. Then she would return to her books; she would think of Mr. Stanton, but it was a wintry prospect that spread out before her eyes, though she said the sun will rise. 
               She slept at length, and in her sleep she dreamed. Archie Kensett-by that name did she know him in her dream-Archie Kensett brought a garden rose to her. She held it to the light, and looked through the fragrant petals, even as Maud had done before her. She put it in her hair, and then laid it on her breast. It was like the magic word that rolled away the stone that held secure the treasures of Aladdin's cave. It gave life and beauty to the world without her, and miraculously transformed the world within. She could smile now as readily as Maud. In her dream, immortal youth was hers. She walked through the "everlasting gardens," whence he gathered that peerless rose; the flowers were numberless, but she plucked none; for she bore that solitary, wherefore another? That she carried with her, and it did not fade; it was immortal; and while she walked, she looked upon the heavens, and the stars arranged themselves into living characters, and walking by her side, Kensett, who knew, interpreted their mystery. 
                  
                     "Come dwell with me, and be my love."
                  
                
               But those heavens disappeared; they rolled together as a scroll, their speech, their language was no more for her. 
               Hope wakened with that disappearing; she started from her bed, and stood upright in the darkness. The voice was still speaking; those words still sounding, even through this cold wakeful darkness she heard them; so potent was that dream's influence that she even raised her hand, seeking through the nothingness of space, that rose. The motion dispelled the charm; in the fright, and chill, and anguish, she folded her arms upon her breast, and fought on thus in that spiritual fight. 
               She stood there thus, when Mr. Stanton passed her door and entered his own room, with Kensett's confession ringing in his ear. A thought flashed through her brain; with the thought came the act. She crossed her chamber, withdrew the bolt that held the door between her room and his, and stood there, on the threshold before him. 
               Then a moment she hesitated, for one solitary moment. Mr. Stanton was standing on the hearth, his head bent upon his breast, reflecting on those words of Archibald Kensett: "I love Maud Saltonstall, and will defend her." He looked up at this sudden apparition, Hope met his astonishment, and advanced a step towards him. She did not wait for him to speak, but said, hurriedly, waving her hand with a commanding gesture: 
               "Stand there. Hear me. You promised to help me. Maud Saltonstall loves Mr. Kensett. She herself says so. She has made me think of him with her thoughts. But, Jerome Stanton, it shall not be. I have vowed myself to you. Do you remember? I do it now. Hear me. Do you hear me? I will love you only. Do you hear me, Mr. Stanton? Love you only. Be what you are. Be sure that you change not. Be not like him! It is all the work of evil. He has been more to me than he could ever be to Maud. That I feel, for she is not like me. And the spirit did not choose to exert his power in her, but through-over me. But I vow myself to you. I will conquer this destroyer, Mr. Stanton, or die." 
               Mr. Stanton stood silent, gazing upon Hope, when this last word had passed her lips; he made no effort to approach her; between them spread a gulf impassable to him. He did not even attempt to speak. Nothing could he say. She had spoken the whole truth, he doubted not. . . But that love she had avowed! it staggered his faith. . . It did more, wounded his pride, aroused his jealousy. 
               She did not leave him long to silence. "Come here," she said. He came; he would have obeyed her had she spoken with less, with the least authority. 
               She took his hand. He suffered it to be so, but it lay within the palms of hers a lifeless weight. 
               "I vowed myself to you," she said, reproachfully. 
               He was silent. 
               "I told you this because what I discovered would have killed me, had I not told it to you. To whom, beside you, could I speak?" 
               "If it might be you would vow yourself to him," he said. 
               "I would not!" she answered. "It is a delusion that I shall conquer. I told you, whom I trust more than all, that you might help me." 
               "Help you!" 
               "Help me? Yes! yes! That you might save me!" 
               "Give me your hand," said he, wildly. 
               "You have it even now." 
               "Vow!" he demanded. "Promise that you will be mine forever and forever." 
               "Forever and forever yours," she said with energy, as if her safety depended on the swiftness and the strength of the vow's utterance. 
                
               "Heart as well as will," said he. 
               "When this tyranny shall be overpast," she answered. "I will go down in the morning, Mr. Stanton. But let her not come. I will do my duty; he will do his; he always has and will. It is only Maud that ever hindered him or me; and, it may be, you will persuade her of the truth, and then she will repent, and we shall all have peace again." 
               She released her hand from his, having spoken thus; retreated; closed the door between them, but she sought no more rest that night. She vanished from the sight of Mr. Stanton as a vision fades before a dreamer's eyes. 
               He stood again within his room alone; not to think of Kensett's declaration, but of Hope's. To doubt, to wonder at, and to adore the girl. Her far-reaching intelligence, then, had compassed the whole matter. She was greater than the tempter; she stood strong in her will, perfectly invulnerable; for, while with the passion of his nature, his whole heart, he loved her, he could yet prize, as above price, a choice, the choice she had confessed, and would proclaim, that sprung from her understanding and her will, accounting the mere heart's preference, absolute though it might be, a delusion, something of little worth in the comparison. 
               But it might have gone otherwise with him in his meditation, had not Kensett's words preceded Maud's. He did not raise a question, nor speculate upon this point, however. It should be as Hope had said. Over evil she should obtain her conquest. And he went to bed to sleep, did Mr. Stanton. 
               Hope returned to her usual occupations in the morning, and she took upon herself, besides, the tasks commonly performed by Maud. In her hearing no reference was made to the occurrences of the preceding days. No hinderance was offered to anything that she would do; no expostulation. At the usual hour she sat down to her studies, and Mr. Stanton rode over to his parsonage. Kensett went about his business; Mr. Rossiter, his sermons; Miss Gladstone, her school. Mr. Stanton had made some explanation of Hope's resolution, and the whole house perceived that it was the will of God that acted through her will. 
               Mr. Rossiter went about his sermons, I said. He did so with an alacrity to which, in such labor, he had been a long time a stranger; but, in spite of the alacrity, there was in his exertion, many a break, many a pause. He would fain return to the old time's zealous striving, and studious solitude; he had been hindered much of late by foes within, but now, perhaps, they would be vanquished. It was truly a seasonable time for striving with himself. Maud was removed from his sight-there was promise of the restoration, nay, the triumph of his daughter; and should he not triumph, whose calamitous affliction had preceded hers? 
               He would avert all harm from Maud; he would not believe but that, in the end, all should be well. If Hope had not been deceived, it might be that she would obtain a signal victory that should set Maud also at liberty, for he could never look on Maud as other than a victim. She was no voluntary, independent agent of evil. But, he would push all this sad business from his mind, and occupy himself with his beloved studies. He endeavored to do so; he succeeded as well as Kensett would have done, had he made like attempt; but it was the best thing he could do, when he shut himself up in his study, to watch, and pray, and wait. 
               So days went on, and through them Margaret Gladstone's word was, constantly, "Be of good cheer, the day breaketh." There was not one of all the household on whose heart her words fell not like balm. None had more need of them than Kensett, and to him she was unfailingly a consolation. 
               "It must be," she predicted, and the household aspect of affairs gave daily new warrant to the prediction. "It must be that Hope's delusion, if it be such, will soon pass away. She grows stronger daily. Whatever cause this calamitous event has had, it is passing. Maud's captivity will have an honorable end. God is good." 
               Her belief was the hope of the house. Under a different form it came to every soul. It soothed the conscience of Justin Rossiter, and pacified his gloomy doubts, while it strengthened him in his strange self-deceiving. 
               It was the anchor on which Kensett and Maud relied. Mrs. Rossiter thanked God, and waited for to-morrow; nay, Grace did not wait, but went forward to it with serene confidence. And Margaret believed her own predictions-breathed more freely, smiled less sadly, worked with a truer courage,-and thanked the Heavenly Shepherd for the pasture she had found. 
             
             
                
               LXIII. DEBBY LYNCH. 
               BUT the town admitted no such adjustment of the disturbance in the parsonage as the family attempted. The cause of the "affliction," and its victims were not permitted to appoint their own deliverance. A rumor slipped the leash and gathered vigor as it ran; the shadow, then the body. 
               Maud Saltonstall's disappearance was an event to raise a questioning. She could be seen nowhere. Hope Rossiter's ill health, the general gloom of the family of the parsonage, all these things could but attract attention in a neighborhood where private affairs were the subject, habitually, of the general investigation. 
               The rumor ran-it ran wild; having escaped its keepers, all men went in pursuit; the suspicion became a fact, the fact gave all-sufficient authority for, nay, claimed, and demanded, an investigation. It had not spent itself, this rumor, when it found its way among the children of the school and the parents of the children. 
               There was little Debby Lynch, Maud's friend of friends. She has glided in and out, among these pages, like a shadow, heretofore. I have really nothing more to tell of her than has been told. She was nothing in the town but the blacksmith's daughter, and a friend of Maud. Her name vanished in the progress of this record, because, as Maud's need increased, Deb had ever less and less to do with its satisfaction tion; but she was, nevertheless, day by day receiving from Maud Saltonstall spirit and life. 
               By every effort in their power Lynch and his wife had favored and encouraged this friendship. They were ambitious to see their only child in possession of all the varied advantages which are the birthright of the children of the rich and the educated. Her intimacy with a member of Mr. Rossiter's family was regarded by them as the consummation of their hope; through that family, doubtless, in some way, it should receive fruition. 
               During Maud's absence from the school, Deborah had been making the most incredible mental exertions, but not with a view to becoming, hereafter, the rival of Hope Rossiter, nor yet for any good that the knowledge she sought could confer upon her. Neither knowledge nor reputation did she seek. Only love. She "stands transfigured, glorified" in this. 
               She is no longer a pale-faced, timid girl, of no account beyond her father's hearth; awkward in dress and manner; looking as though her strength were all in the long black locks of hair which she wears twisted upon the top of her head-the head that aches from morning until night, under the heavy burdens of labor she compels her brain to bear. 
               She labored for the love of Maud. To win back the heart which she believed-for long and intensely she had reflected on the subject-she had lost, by her apparent incapacity to share Maud's new-born aspirations. To win back this heart, or prove herself worthy of its love, she was striving as child never strove before. When Maud should come back, Oh, then she should see what little Deb had done. 
               Miss Gladstone, occupied by her own care to an extent that admitted no more than a punctual discharge of her daily duties, heard the child recite, and praised her proficiency, but did not observe the cause, nor the effect, of that strange ambition. She did not see that Deborah was killing herself, and her father and her mother were no more discerning. They were well content to see the girl forsaking every occupation that bore the faintest semblance to sport, toiling in every leisure moment, over books that in themselves had never a charm for her. Jacob's will was not more resolute when he went through his servitude for Rachel. 
               Alas! the hopes and pride that filled the blacksmith's heart, when he saw his Debby pass his shop and walk on so gravely, turning neither to the right hand nor the left, as she went to the school-house! How he struck the iron with his great, strong hand, and took new pleasure in his toil, since she should reap the advantage of his labor! Would not that brawny arm be as vigorous to avenge as to defend her? 
               Demurely she walked along through those streets, so quietly, but no real quiet in her heart. I know how, when she came near the parsonage, her heart beat at the sight of the dwelling; how, afar off, she surveyed all its windows; how she wondered, even till she reached the school-room door, if Maud would not now come out and call to her, and join her, and walk on by her side, as once she did. If Maud should come, Deborah would tell her nothing that she had done; but, if it chanced that Maud had been pursuing her studies also, while absent from the school, Deborah could say, quietly, that she had gone through the entire book and had it all by heart. How pleasant it would be! . . . For this was the fearful truth. Deb had prepared herself against all surprises. She had learned her book, her books, by heart. At whatever page Miss Gladstone chose to question her, she was ready. 
               She used to ask for Maud in the first days of her absence, but something hindered her doing so afterwards-she knew not what. It was the will of the teacher. After the fourth day there was no need for her to ask, for, from that time, Miss Gladstone never left the school without saying first to Deborah: 
                
               "Maud sends her love to you to-day. I hope she will be back at work with you very soon, my good child." 
               That satisfied and comforted Deb. 
               So she did labor, and did wait, and the excitement of those walks by the parsonage never abated, and the anxiety with which she listened for Miss Gladstone's word at noon was heightened day by day. 
               At length the rumor came-even to that child it came. Without a solitary note of warning it fell upon the ear of Deb. She was sitting, at nightfall, on the door step of her father's house, for there were visitors within-some neighbors who had dropped in to chat away the twilight with her mother. She remained without, thinking, perhaps, that she should see Mr. Kensett, or somebody from the parsonage, walking by; it might be some message would come from somebody to her, but, as it were unawares, she was drawn away from this thinking of them, to another, and far different. She heard her own name spoken, and then, presently, the name of Maud, and then she strained her ears to listen: louder talked the gossips, and at last, in haste, panting, they came to the name of Miss Hope Rossiter. 
               Deb Lynch stood up to hear them now, their talk had interest for her; the words she caught, and the connection, brought her from the door step more nearly to the group within-with the swiftness of a thought she came. And she heard the accusation, she heard them talk, and dilate, and enlarge, on the terrible and wonderful affliction of Hope Rossiter. She heard them say it would not be a wonder if Hope should die, and there she still stood and listened, and heard them talk of Maud, and condemn and denounce her, until her brain and heart were in a whirl and she could endure no more. 
               With what purpose she went forward, rushing before the group of women, no one ever knew. They said she burst upon them like a spectre, like a ghost that has fearful things to tell; that she fell down with a cry at the feet of the chief speaker who had told the dreadful tale, and that, when they lifted her, the poor pale face was not like the face of Debby Lynch, but marked with a hundred furrows, and so changed as to be almost past recognition. Some exaggeration there may have been in this, but there was at the bottom awful truth. 
               Thus she lived the remainder of her time; it was only three days. While she lived, that young face never regained its composure; the furrows remained, and deepened; the brown eyes never found their proper light, they beheld nothing of human kind that passed before them; fearful visions crowded them, but blindness to all earthly things. 
               It was on the fourth day that she died. The doctor said that she had perished under the influence, whatever it might be, that Hope Rossiter had been able to survive. It was thought that had she been able to speak, after that night, she would have had her revelation to make. 
               Mr. Stanton was convinced of it; and, praying over her grave, it may have been his purpose to soothe the minds and allay the fears that ran now like wild-fire among the people, old and young; but with what result, Kensett's words expressed, when he said to Margaret Gladstone as they went home from the funeral: 
               "If there's a righteous God in heaven why did He not smite that man to death for the seal he has set on this accursed lie? Shall he not himself feel the vengeance of the Lord?" 
               Margaret did not say "peace to him." She had first to say it to her own soul; she had first to allay her own fears. 
             
             
                
               LXIV. THE PROTECTOR. 
               IN the confusion of tongues that now ensued, the school closed. Miss Gladstone said to Mr. Rossiter that not only prudence, but necessity, demanded this act. It was better to dismiss the children without the constraint of the people, whose excitement would never lessen till it had reached an extremity beyond this; and, besides, she felt herself unequal to the demand made by it upon her at the present. 
               A week of holidays, accordingly, was given to the children. But Mr. Stanton, without whom Mr. Rossiter would not act, was taken first into the consultation, and, before this could be done, he must be sent for from his residence. Kensett was commissioned to go for him. 
               It was not difficult to exclude all knowledge of what was passing in the world around from a household, or any member of a household, like this of Mr. Rossiter; it had not yet come to Maud that Debby Lynch was dead; it had not come to any member of the family, except Kensett, that she was actually looked upon as a victim of Maud Saltonstall's diabolism. 
               Miss Gladstone and Maud were together on the afternoon following the funeral, and both were reading, not only endeavoring to do so, but actually succeeding; but, while they were so engaged, Maud looked up from her book and asked: 
                
               "Miss Gladstone, have you forgotten that I am a prisoner, and how long it is since I went to the school? How long it is, too, since I have seen little Deb?" 
               "Oh no," Margaret answered; and spoke so cheerily that Maud was emboldened to ask, 
               "How long will it be yet, do you think?" 
               "I wish that I could tell you," answered Margaret. 
               "Then you cannot." 
               "Not just yet." 
               Then Maud and she were silent-till the teacher said, 
               "Dear child, you must have learned many things within these days besides what you have found in the books over which you have been so faithful. These are secrets into which I have no right to look-but yet, if your heart would incline you to say anything of what no one can know except God and yourself to me, it would make me very happy." 
               In a clear, confiding voice, through which, however, a distinct tremor ran, Maud thus appealed to, said, 
               "Yes, I have learned something. Not as Mr. Stanton wants me to-or Hope. But, I think, as Hope's mother would like me to learn it, if she knew me better, and as you and Mr. Kensett would." 
               "What things, Maud?" 
               "To fear God rather than men; and I never can utter that untruth, Miss Gladstone; I never can say that I have done what I believe I have not done." 
               "Maud . . is it so? Then it is well;" but as if to persuade herself of this the speaker paused. Her faith had a new triumph here. She believed indeed it was Truth which had its victory in Maud, and her faith must sustain her. "God help you," she continued in a stronger voice. "He will, and I think that shortly, very shortly, He will make you to be believed of others. You must do your duty, Maud." 
               "I will," she said. "But if I should say that Miss Rossiter has not been deceived," asked she-and it was not a childish voice that asked it, but the voice of a woman, constrained to be careful about many things, "what would happen then, Miss Gladstone?" 
               "They would be satisfied." 
               "But why would they be satisfied?" 
               "It would be considered that safety for yourself and others was in the confession-the evil must be exorcised." 
               "And what would happen then? Would they always be afraid of me?" 
               "Oh no, dear, I see not that." Almost with a hope did Miss Gladstone utter this word. She even caught at the idea that if Maud Saltonstall could now so impose upon herself as to believe that this allegation was in all things true, it would be well for her. Well for her; for she shrank from thinking of what the end should be of this storm that would rise, and even now was rising, were it not speedily and forever allayed. 
               "Well, I am not afraid!" exclaimed Maud. "If my ship should go to pieces as yours did, I remember you were saved, you and Kensett both. I am not afraid!" 
               What could she mean? Miss Gladstone did not, dared not ask. But the lofty courage of the young face of the speaker seemed confronting some terrible destiny. 
               "Fear not," said Miss Gladstone. Her voice firm in this utterance, but she could not have spoken further. 
               "Has Archibald Kensett gone for Mr. Stanton?" asked Maud presently. 
               "Why do you ask?" 
               This did not seem like an evading of the question-did not to Maud have that sound-yet such it was. 
               "I saw him riding up the lane, and afterwards away up the road. You can see the corner from where I sit. I saw them go, and knew the horse. He was riding fast." 
               "Very likely, then, he has gone to Mr. Stanton. I heard Mr. Rossiter speaking with him about it this morning." 
                
               "I dreamed last night I saw him going. And . . . I thought that he was hindered on the way," said Maud in a whisper. 
               "How hindered, Maud?" asked Miss Gladstone, struck by the expression of Maud's face. 
               "By Debby Lynch," said she, in a suppressed voice. "And I thought that she was dead." 
               "How, then could she hinder him?" 
               "She rose up from her grave to do it." 
               "She will never rise for such a purpose, dear Maud." 
               "She has not died!" 
               "Yes, she is dead; it is true." 
               "Debby Lynch?" 
               "Our little Deborah." 
               A long, long silence. Then said Maud, 
               "Why did you not tell me?" 
               "It was so sudden, Maud." 
               "In a moment?" 
               "As it were." 
               "She was killed, then." 
               "No, but it could not have been more sudden." 
               "Will you not tell me how it was?" 
               "She was struck down," said Miss Gladstone slowly, seeking how best to convey what she had during the two last days been endeavoring to say. 
               "By lightning? Oh!" 
               "No, but by some stroke of disease; I do not understand it. She did not die at once-she was three days on earth after she seemed-so-so changed. And then she passed away." 
               "Oh, Debby Lynch! oh, Debby Lynch! the poor old man and woman! Oh, Deborah! Miss Gladstone, if I had been there! Why did no one call for me? Did she never ask to have me come? I know, I know she wanted me." 
               "I think she wanted nothing; was not conscious of a want; but now, now I know that it is so-she will never, never, never want again." 
               "No, never! And I wish that I were with her. I wanted once to live forever in this world; but oh, Miss Gladstone, they have made it cruel. It is not what I thought; and now I think that heaven must be like all that lies behind me, away off where my father and mother are-and all the quiet, and Lady Jane, and the great sky. It is all behind me, and I used to think it was all before. You wanted to know how I had been thinking. I did not tell you all, for this was part of it. It seems so cruel here; and I think I should die if it were not for you and Archie. Oh, Miss Gladstone, did you see Deborah Lynch when she was dead?" 
               "I saw her then, dear Maud." 
               "How was she? Like life? . . For I know not what the dead are. I only know the graveyard and tombstones, and how still the houses are when one is dead. We used to walk so still past them. Tell me all, Miss Gladstone, that I may know how one shall look when he is dead." 
               "She was more beautiful than she had ever been in her life. It was like a sweet sleep, Maud, smiling, and full of calm." 
               "As if she slept," mused Maud. . . And then, recurring to her dream, she asked, "Why should I dream that she stopped Archie on his way to Mr. Stanton?" 
               "That was but a dream-who can account for such things?" In the silence that now followed there was hesitation. It was no easy thing for Maud to say what, nevertheless, she now did say: 
               "In those papers that used to come from Scotland about those terrible doings, about the witchcraft, Miss Gladstone, those who were accused were taken away from their friends and tried. Would you ever let me be taken? You have more right than any one here to say what should be done! Would you let me go, Miss Gladstone?" 
                
               "Dear Maud, you do distress me, asking the question. . . Do you not trust me-do you not know how dear you are to me, my darling Maud?" 
               "But could you keep me from them!" she still questioned. 
               "You are my blessed Maud!" Miss Gladstone gave for an assurance an embrace, and Maud received it, and she asked no more. But she knew that Margaret had not answered her question, and she was thinking, in the silence that followed, of the grave and Debby Lynch. 
             
             
                
               LXV. LOVING AND LOVED. 
               MR. STANTON came down again to Mr. Rossiter. He had gone home after the funeral, but now was summoned back before the night fell. Kensett did not wait for him-did not even see the minister, who was absent from the house, perhaps again overlooking the erection of that building which should be the future home of Jerome Stanton and his wife. Word was despatched to him, calling him to Mr. Rossiter's, and Kensett, assured that it would be delivered, rode back to the parsonage. 
               Ready excuse was found and received for Maud that she did not present herself at the tea table that night. The family, indeed, were too much concerned by the turn affairs had taken to notice, or make comment, on her absence. It was generally felt to be a relief that she did not come down. 
               But Maud was not alone. She had an angel for her company while the solemn meal was shared below. When Miss Gladstone met Archibald Kensett on the stairway, and said that Maud would not be down again to-night, and asked if he had not some cheerful word to send her, he went back to his room and wrote a moment rapidly along a page that lay upon his table. It seemed but a moment, but when he had folded it, and stepped across the narrow hall, and dropped it, without an instant's pause, within Maud's door, he had done everything that he could do-said all that he could say. 
                
               And this it was that he had written: 
               "Maud, you are dearer to me than anything on earth. I desire that you should know it. You have made every beautiful and lovely thing most beautiful and dear to me by your dear love for it. I love you for what you have been, and are to others, as well as for what you are to me. If, for any reason, we should ever be separated-if a time should soon come when we could see each other's face no more-I should feel then that I had met a loss which nothing in this world could atone for. I want you to know this, Maud, for I know that you are not indifferent to any one who knows how to love you. I believe I love you as you would be loved, so I would tell you, again and again, that if the whole world accused you, and you denied the accusation, my faith would be in you instead of them. Be sure that the Lord liveth; be sure that He is good; be sure that He loves you. Oh, be sure that He beholds you, for He is your Father, even as He is mine, and the Father of all who rely on him. And be sure, dearest Maud, that this light affliction is but for the night-joy cometh in the morning." 
               "Write what you feel to him," said Miss Gladstone, to whom, on her return, Maud gave this note. 
               Thus bidden, Maud Saltonstall wrote down for him the answer her heart gave when she read his words. 
               "Dear Archie,-I believe every word that you have written, and I love you, I think, as you love me. Wishing I were better, but glad that there is something in me which makes you happy, and the world pleasant. I think that I could make it heaven for you, and you could do the same for me; sometime, maybe, when we are older; I should be quite happy now, thinking of it, but for some cruel thoughts that trouble me to-night. When all is over, dear Archie, and it will pass away," there was the trace of hurried writing here, "we will walk together in the woods, as we have sometimes, and I will hear you preach then, and you shall hear me sing, and we will pray together, to God, who defends from harm; but I shall not love you better then than I do now, and I can hear you as well where I am, as I shall there, I think. Now I know why it is that I have thought of you so often, and you have been so dear, it is because you have thought of me so often, and I have been so dear! It is all right that you should believe what I say, and what I have said, or how could you love me? You must always believe me, and I shall always try to be what you think I am. I never wrote to you before, but, if this note could make you happy, as yours has made me, never mind, dear Archie, it is all right and well,-" 
               It was the least that Maud could do-it was the most! Miss Gladstone took this note to Kensett. When he had he had read it, he said: 
               "It is no more my life that is at stake now, than before; but it is still my life, Miss Gladstone. She must be victorious. If not!" 
               "You apprehend, then, the struggle that must come," said she, for the first time speaking out to him her secret thought. 
               "It is a struggle for life," he answered. "The people will let it come to nothing short. We will be victorious!" 
               "Yes; yes, assuredly, victory must be the portion of Maud Saltonstall." 
               So agitated and excited was Kensett, that he did not observe the difficulty with which Margaret Gladstone had spoken these words. 
               "In time!" he said, but his eyes were turned toward heaven. 
               "And in eternity," she added, for earth spread before her like the opening door of a vast sepulchre. 
             
             
                
               LXVI. AN APPOINTED DAY. 
               IN time and in eternity. 
               It was to be no longer, in that household, that morning, after morning they should question of each other concerning Hope and Maud. That Mr. Stanton should ride over to learn whether the amendment, which had begun in Hope, continued yet; and whether Maud Saltonstall had yet been softened to confession. That Mr. Rossiter should rise from his bed of weariness, and betake himself to his labors, his elasticity of thought all gone, his mind in a perpetual chaos of distrust, weak with much fasting, long watching, exhausted with prayers, heavy in spirit, burdened beyond bearing. That Kensett should take to his heart, and bear upon his thoughts, the dear life becoming dearer to him day by day. That Mrs. Rossiter should look from one face to another, and droop along her path, and wonder at the affliction that had befallen them. That Maud should look out from her window, and wait for a deliverer; that Miss Gladstone, in secrecy and silence, should bear her cross, and, with tears, continue in her prayer, "Why art thou so long tarrying, Oh, my God!" 
               The people came to ponder, and to weigh, and judge with them. The people were clamorous for judgment. The evil had escaped beyond the bounds of family; had become public calamity, and public justice must be done. This thing that was done in a corner had become noised abroad; it had passed beyond private jurisdiction. Let there be a fair and open hearing; let the accusers-and they also were spread now far beyond the house of Mr. Rossiter-let them be arrayed against the accused; it was no time to tamper; let the right appear, and evil be crushed before the "brood of hell" should come up to maturity, or the whole New World would be shaken. 
               Thus the people argued; nor long in quietness, or secret. They came, by delegation, to the house of their pastor; strong men who had been deputed to ask an examination of this case which had aroused the town, and threatened, not merely to destroy its peace, but its safety, its spiritual life. 
               This private meeting, which was proposed, and granted-for a refusal would not have been listened to-became, in reality, very public in its character. It assumed the form of an investigation, but it was, in fact, nothing less than a trial for life; for, as the examination went on, the tumult, in spite of the character of those engaged in it, increased, the evil was magnified, and to all the charges, exaggerations, demonstrations made, there was nothing, nothing to oppose but Maud Saltonstall's steadfast denial. 
               I may not place myself, I will not bring the reader within the precincts of the court, which, at a later day, in consequence of the unsatisfactory results of this first examination, convened for the new trial of Maud Saltonstall. 
               Let us go on to another, an appointed day. 
               Hope Rossiter is lying in her darkened chamber, speechless in her sorrow and her doubt; powerless now to think, or will, or do; and Mr. Stanton, watching beside her, even he cannot comfort her. He knows not how to comfort her, and yet is to be the companion of all her future years! His aspect is not that of a man who rejoices over a signal deliverance from danger; as certainly it is not the bearing of one that would disclaim the service he has aided in rendering the land. He is the servant of the Most High God-he has done his duty. He may lament its necessities, its consequences, but he is ready to say now, as in all the past days, Not my will, but thine. On this rock of his assurance Hope Rossiter ere long will lean the whole weight of her mortal life, and they will realize together all their youthful aspirations in the years to come. The cloud that spreads above them shall roll away, and leave no trace. Maud Saltonstall is not their evil fate; her memory shall not haunt them. They shall have abundant peace. Does it pass your understanding? 
               In that same room, Hope's room, her mother waits. She waits for what? The stillness of the parsonage is beyond endurance. Her ears are closed; her head is bowed between her knees. She asks no consolation; no one offers it. She cannot pray. She weeps, but tears avail her not. Her wound bleeds as if there were no balm in Gilead, and no Physician there. 
               Beside these, who in dead silence remain together, there is not a living creature in the parsonage, except upon the kitchen hearth, the cat which was Maud's playmate in those days, the first days of her residence beneath this roof, to which she came as to a home, with the trusting heart of childhood; the cat will never have carressing of human hand again. 
               Mr. Rossiter is not here. He has been with Maud. As the girl's sometime protector, as a minister of the Gospel whose office is to wait with consolations on the "appointed unto death," it is meet that he should go to Maud. 
               He found her alone in her prison on this last occasion, as at other times when he had visited her. 
               On other days, in parting with her, he had spoken words of cheer-he had the courage to console her; he would not believe what reason essayed to tell him would be the issue of the trial. But Maud Saltonstall was doomed to death. And she was no longer the accused of his own daughter; she was the child of Abigail. It was no time now to denounce that old passion, and soothe his conscience by pronouncing it an illusion of the tempter. He did not bid his memory begone. Let it be a temptation; it had its hour undisturbed; and he went in and came out from Maud's presence for the last time, maddened by a passion whose elements were unknown to Kensett's soul. Never seemed the face of Maud so fair, so beautiful, as now to the old man's eyes. A century should not dispossess him of the sound of her voice when she said- 
               "Mr. Rossiter, you were kind to me. I thank you for that." These words were all she said; from these she could not refrain. She had pity on him, he looked so old, so broken, or she had not said even this. There was nothing to forgive him, that she knew; yet her heart was full of forgiveness toward him when he said, sobbing, 
               "There was nothing I could do to stop it. Forgive me. I know you are innocent; but I could not save your life. I swear to you, Maud, I could not." 
               "You do-you do believe me!"exclaimed Maud. Joyously she spoke; she had not thought to hear these words from him-Hope's father. The wild light of his eyes, the wildness of his speech, passed unnoticed before her; she had only heard his words. Then he said again- 
               "You came to us an angel; you go like one." These words broke from him without the fire of his previous utterance. The spirit of the listener changed on hearing them. 
               "I have yet to go," she said; and the fact's awful consciousness seemed for a moment to fall with appalling force upon her. Then, to cheer him, she roused again: "Tell Mrs. Rossiter I always loved her. She was like my mother. I am glad she did not come here. Farewell, Mr. Rossiter; I hear Miss Gladstone coming now." 
               She would have him depart, then. The old man heard it in her voice; he read it in her face. He would go; certainly he would depart; but not silently. Like the last stream of fire that shall burst from the crater, extinct in that outbreak, his voice raised. 
               "Maud Saltonstall," and he turned from her. She did not see his face in this speaking; saw it no more. "You say farewell. I never can say farewell. I curse the day of my birth: let it be accursed. As for you, go on-go on to Heaven. Better so, by any road, than crawl on this barren earth like a worm, despised, and best fit for that." 
               He went out before she could answer him, and she saw his face no more. Immediately Margaret Gladstone came. In that presence Maud forgot the strange violence and trouble that had departed. Mr. Rossiter's words, had she been left to reflect upon them, might have added bitterness to her last hours; but she sought no explanation of them. It was into a narrower dungeon that he passed as he went forth, than the prison wherein Maud was held. 
               Many things had Maud to say to Margaret; and when she perceived the teacher, thought of Mr. Rossiter, as well as his form, vanished. 
               "It is all true what happened yesterday," she said, going up to the new comer. "I am to go from you." 
               Perceiving the calmness with which these words were spoken, Margaret made no attempt to answer them. She had disguised herself that day, that she might the better serve this youthful soul, but the ability to maintain the disguise was fast forsaking her. She did not speak, but clasped Maud to her breast, and held her there as if she would furnish an eternal defence in her poor flinching self; even when she knew so well the safety of that doomed life. 
               "Now," exclaimed Maud, freeing herself from the embrace that she might look upon the face of Margaret, "you did not think I could, be false when all those strange people said such strange things. I was true in every word, Margaret Gladstone, just as you testified your belief." 
                
               "True, Maud Saltonstall," said Margaret, solemnly, "true as the saints of God." 
               "Archie said the same! When is he coming? Will he come?" 
               "He will! he will!" 
               "I know it. Where is Mr. Stanton?" 
               "He is at the parsonage, dear Maud." 
               "Tell him Margaret-no, nothing to him. Where is Hope?" 
               "She also is at home. She keeps her bed." 
               "I hope that she will live. For all of them. I hope its all over now. Her mother was so kind to me. Oh my own mother! Margaret Gladstone, she will never know what happened. Tears are no good-do not, do not; you cannot help it. You have done everything. It is good she will not know. They will never any of them know. I never forgot to do what my father asked. I have prayed for them every day. And to-day. It is pleasant to pray for those you love. They are dearer to you after. Miss Gladstone,-Margaret, to-day! I remember about you and Archie on that ship, facing death! I used to think it splendid when he would tell me it over; it seems so yet." She drew herself up as she said this, soldier and martyr that she was, and smiled-the hero in her smiled-but immediately, the woman, the child, the loving maiden, the reflecting human creature, must assert themselves. Longing regret betrayed itself, and grief, that was beyond the relief of tears. 
               "It seemed to me yesterday they were all so old-and I so young-and what could I do against them, so cruel and strong? They were not kind and pitiful;-yet I could not think they hated me. Some of the women cried; and then I fell to thinking of Lady Jane, if she could only know, how safe she would carry me off, like a leaf on the wind; but I would not fly from them. Did you see Archibald?" Her face lightened with a glorious smile at thought of him as he stood before her yesterday. "He was like a lion among them, and it was all so different from what he used to be when he stood up in the meeting, and talked of other things, I did not know that he could be so awful. But it was all for me. It was so terrible for him to see what they were trying to do. By his look I knew the danger . . . . oh-it was hard-where is Archie? Why does he not come?" 
               "He will come. I will go call him," said Margaret Gladstone. 
               "Will you come again, Margaret?" 
               "Yes; soon, soon, my blessed child!" 
               "But kiss me Margaret, to make sure, before you go. Margaret, I do not feel like a child to you now, but a friend. I've grown old in these days; Margaret think now, have I ever offended you, and grieved you? Forgive me for every thing, before I go away. You kiss me. That means yes-you forgive me. Let him come now." 
                
             
             
                
               LXVII. VICTORY. 
               THEN Kensett came. He came alone. Margaret Gladstone would come no more. From the beautiful world he went into that prison place, for his last interview with Maud Saltonstall, who, to him, was the world's beauty and its excellence. 
               With a firm tread, and lofty aspect, he went; he seemed treading on his youth, on all its hopes, its cheerful-heartedness and joy. The irresistible energy of manhood that would not surrender to this appalling grief, this ghastly prospect, he went. 
               The guard that admitted him secured the door behind him, and he was left with Maud alone. 
               "I knew that you would come," she said. She was the first to speak-the first to advance-for just within the threshold Kensett stood, motionless. "Stay with me till I go." She took his hand, pleading. 
               In spite of the brave show with which he had approached that building, and shown his permission to pass to the guard, Kensett's heart was fainting within him. He indulged no hope, cherished no God-given promise in this hour, but, whelmed in horror and grief, he listened, and then spoke. In agony he spoke. 
               "Think, Maud, would it not be strange if there was anything thing that you could ask in vain, to-day. Yet it has come to this, that I can do nothing! nothing for you!" 
               "You can stay with me, that is not nothing," mildly answered she. 
               "I will; and now, Maud Saltonstall," he said, looking into her face, strengthened with a strength that was new, and strange and heavenly, "tell me, for the comfort of all the days I may have to live on earth, tell me everything you think and feel. Talk to me, Maud. Talk to me, dear." 
               He sat down upon the floor of the room which was her prison, at the foot of the solitary chair in the apartment, he sat down. Instead of taking it, Maud placed herself beside him. 
               It was many moments ere she spoke-and Kensett did not break the silence; when she did speak her voice was raised to a higher key than it was wont, but gradually it sunk to its usual low, even tone. 
               "I am willing to go," said she. "God has not called me; He has not wished that this should happen; but it is not my fault that I go. I think I shall go to Him. I remember how you read to us about that world. It has been dark to me here sometimes. Lately I could feel the darkness. But in a moment it will all be over. See how I tremble. I cannot help it; but I know all is right, and safe. You must feel so too. Don't let all this get you into Mr. Stanton's way of preaching. I never should have been so sure to-day, if it had not been for you. The same thing that would have made it so happy for me here on earth will make it just as happy there. Happier. I think I am different-but not as they say. It is all you that have made me. They do not think me fit to live. That seems bitter and dreadful, but the thought keeps away from me, somehow; it has not made me so very, very wretched, as you might think it would, Archie. But they think I am fit to die; if they believe I am so wicked, and that the wicked have eternal punishment, wouldn't you think they would dread to do it? But I know I shall have the light always, and the beautiful harmony. No discord. What is it-they cast their crowns before him; that means their best powers, their whole souls, may be; before the throne, and sing-that is the way I would do. But now, Archie, hear me in this one thing. I never should have felt as I do now, if I had believed what Mr. Stanton tried to teach. I never could pray when he told me to do so because God's wrath against sin is so fierce and consuming, like a fire. But when you spoke of Jesus, and prayed to Him, and showed us another fear, I felt it. I saw that He was Beauty, and Truth, and Goodness, as you said, and that to sin was to do a cruel wrong to Him, and to ourselves, because we belong to Him; since he came to show us how we could become like Him, beautiful, and true, and good. All as you said. I know I have been true. Not to have saved myself from everything that men can do to me would I have been false when my time came to be tried. You would not have been false. I do not love Him just for anything that He can do for me. I have only asked Him once to save my life. I should have lost my life, as He said, if I had saved it by "confession," as they would have me do. I never could have loved Him because He was angry with the wicked every day, though they said I should. You know who I mean by they. But I love Him because everything that is perfect is in Him, and we are in him so far as we are perfect. You have taught me this truth, Archie." 
               "Yes!" exclaimed Kensett; wildly he spoke-for her words had not soothed nor controlled him; they seemed but to open his eyes more clearly to the enormity of what was about to be done. "You have learned it well! But if you said it aloud they would cry out so much the more, 'Crucify her! crucify her!' Oh, Maud Saltonstall! I could almost say gladly, go! for your Father's house is open for you this day, and they wait to welcome you there!" 
                
               "The heavenly angels! The New Jerusalem! The everlasting song! Archie! Archie! if we were only to go together! It would be nothing then!" 
               "In heaven they are neither married, nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God!" said Kensett, rising above his grief suddenly-sustained in the exaltation by her exalted spirit. If ever the truths of faith were to avail him surely it was now. Again she said: 
               "It is very sweet, and it seems very strange that you should be here; that you should have taught me so much; that now there should be you to believe in me! You, and she who taught me everything." 
               "Strange! It would be monstrous if it were not so; I should be a monster could I doubt you, Maud Saltonstall. You! you who have helped me so much, who have opened my eyes, and taught me, before you could have known there was strange wisdom in your words, to love God and his creation, while I was cold and merely a believer!" 
               "You will praise him here, and I shall praise him there," she said softly. "We shall not be far separate, I know. They that love him are all one. Christ prayed for it, and it is so. If you cannot see me, it is the same. Oh, Archie, is it not?" 
               Kensett said not what was in his heart. That, long or short, without her, life would be to him a dreary time of ceaseless mourning. That henceforth he was widowed, and should find no comforter; that the summer was ended forever, until he should go where there are no changing seasons. 
               He said it not, for, while he felt all this, and it was true of him in every feature, and could not be otherwise, while he looked at her, she strengthened him as if he had seen the Heavens open. 
               When the summons came, and the mortal went forth to be clothed with immortality, Kensett went with her. He walked not by her side then-Maud went guarded-but he followed lowed close upon the footsteps of the guard and clergymen. The people had come forth to see the execution of a witch, he went to watch the departure of Maud Saltonstall for the kingdom of the Father. 
               He beheld her when she passed along the avenue opened for her through the throng; he followed on. She had said she would behold him in the last vision she should have of earth. He followed that she might. 
               There was, in all the preparations made, nothing to gild the ceremonial of death. The instruments prepared were stronger than were needed to set at liberty the spirit of a frame so fair, so slight, so young. A stalwart figure guarded them-a brawny Hercules, who might have wrestled with a giant, who might have despatched an army, stood there to crush a flower, to break a young bird's wings, but the flight he could not hinder. 
               So was this world delivered of Maud Saltonstall. These were the circumstances of her eternal liberation; of the day when she was born into her Father's house, the child of death and of eternity; the child of beauty, of truth, and of God. 
               Nearly two hundred years, as we count time, she has beheld the Father's face. Grown in the light, shared in the "sweet new song." In her eternal joy, she goes from strength to strength, winning an ever increasing capacity for the reception of heavenly love and wisdom. 
               Two hundred years gone by. Only two centuries. The sun shines on, and round it moves the earth. Two hundred years, and the martyrs are not yet all dead. The noble army passes, lengthening, on. Two hundred years, and the mourning generations have not vanished away. Ebbing and flowing like the tide, going out or coming in, perpetual in their wail. Only two centuries. . . Grief, indeed, is for a moment, but, its purpose answered, joy is everlasting. 
                
               
                  Comfort one another with these words: MORNING IS BORN OF NIGHT. FAITH IS VICTORY. 
               Kensett joined Maud Saltonstall, when his work was done. Who dies before his time? In heaven, the Scripture teaches, they are not married, neither are they given in marriage, for the unity that marriage symbolizes, sages say, is there possessed in perfectness. More than Maud could have given him on earth he has found there. 
               But comfort did not swiftly come to the two mourning hearts that kept green the sod above Maud Saltonstall. Yet comfort came, and it found them laboring in that same field where their feet were first set as laborers-unflinching in their cause, stricken, afflicted, yet heroic, and cherishing, through ill report and hardship, the patience of the heirs of victory, until a good report, of God and man attested, crowned their mortal lives with honor. 
               Kensett would have forsaken that field in the day of his disaster. He longed for no harvest that could perfect in that soil; but a woman's voice, that opened heaven to him when once he stood upon a sinking ship, rose now, and claimed his labor; she charged him to remain and witness the salvation of the Lord, in the deliverance of the people from the bonds of superstition. A voice from the grave echoed that counsel; therefore he remained. 
               Even until the morning star shone in the east; until the uprisen SUN held eternity within the hollow of his hand. 
               Not shipwrecked did they come to port. 
               Victors they hailed the shore. 
               And they possess the LAND. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
