
    ----CITATION----
        Dorr, Julia C. R. (1825-1913). Lanmere .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6297 wright2-0768
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               LANMERE.
            
            BY MRS. JULIA C. R. DORR, AUTHOR OF "FARMINGDALE."
            
               
                  
                     "To love and to labour is the sum of living; and yet how manie think they live who neither labour nor love."
                  
                  —SIR THOMAS MORE.
               
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               MASON BROTHERS.
            
            1856.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, by MASON BROTHERS, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court, for the Southern District of New York.
               STEREOTYPED BY THOMAS B. SMITH, 82 & 84 Beckman Street.
               PRINTED BY JOHN A. GRAY, 97, Cliff St.
            
         
         
            TO WILLIAM YOUNG RIPLEY, ESQ., OF RUTLAND, VERMONT, I DEDICATE THESE PAGES AS A SLIGHT TOKEN OF A DAUGHTER'S LOVE.
         
         
            
            Lanmere.
            
            PREFACE.
            SOMETHING over a year ago—under a name to which, although it was not my own, I felt that I had a right, since it was that of her whose early death left me motherless in my infancy—I sent forth, with fear and trembling, a book between whose lids lay folded a simple story of New England life.
            I intended to preserve my incognito strictly, and never doubted that it would be in my power to do so. But to hundreds of those who read "Farmingdale," the locality of the story at once betrayed the secret of its authorship. That this should have been, when not a character in the book was drawn from real life, when not a single incident was even so much as "founded on fact," was a compliment to the accuracy of its descriptions, and to its truthfulness as an idyl of Green Mountain life and manners.
            As such I felt it, and was duly grateful. But—alas! for the buts—it sadly deranged my plans for the future. In offering "Lanmere" to those who have read "Farmingdale," I can but feel that it would be a mere affectation to retain my nom de plume, when voices from the north and the south and the east and the west are assuring me that its adoption was of little avail as a disguise, and are urging me to throw it aside.
            
            Amid all the doubts and fears and anxieties which prove to me, conclusively, that it is not the first voyage only which the inexperienced mariner dreads, I yet rejoice to know that there are some firesides to which this volume will come as a welcome and cherished guest; that there are some hearts who will receive it as a message from a friend; that there are some sorrowing ones who, in the perusal of its pages, will for awhile forget their sorrows; that there are some weary and struggling spirits to whom it will whisper of joy and peace and rest—if not here, yet in the Hereafter.
            For this knowledge, which has gladdened all my being, and strengthened me in many an hour of lassitude and despondency, I am chiefly indebted to the unknown yet generous friends who have greeted me with so many words of kindly cheer and encouragement. To those friends—to each and to all—do I say, "I thank you," not as a mere formality, but in heartfelt gratitude; and I present to them this second book, in the earnest hope that it may find favor in their sight.
            
               J.C.R.D.
               GREENHOLT, December 10.
            
         
      
      
         
            Lanmere
            LANMERE.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Scest thou shadows sailing by,
                           As the dove, with startled eye,
                           Sees the falcon's shadow fly?"
                        
                     
                     LONGFELLOW.
                  
               
               "BESSIE! don't skip about so! Every other second you give a spring, as if you were just ready to fly. Here—take hold of my hand, and walk along steadily—as I do."
               Bessie Allison checked her bounding step, and, for full half a minute, walked very demurely by her sister's side. But it was too much. Presently her little figure resumed its elastic motion, and although still retaining Margaret's hand, she pranced along on the tips of her toes, seeming indeed "just ready to fly."
               "Oh, dear!" she exclaimed, at last, "I do wish mother would not make us go to five o'clock meeting!"
               "You need not say us, when you make such a wish as that," said Margaret. "I like to go."
               "Well, you're the oldest. Maybe I shall like it when I am as old as you are," and Bessie struck a pebble with the tip of her gaiter, and sent it into the ditch by the roadside.
               "Two years don't make much difference. There, now! see how you have spattered my dress," said Margaret, glancing dolefully at a diminutive spot upon her scrupulously clean frock. "I don't see what does make you act so!"
               "I did not mean to dirty your dress, Margaret," replied Bessie, in a tone that evinced her sincerity. "And it isn't much, either. Only just one little drop. You can hardly see it now."
               "But you meant to kick the stone into the water. If you had been going along quietly as you ought, you would not have done it. I never saw such a girl in my life."
               Bessie's bright face grew sober in an instant.
               "Well, I will be steady now—as steady as old Gray," she said, drawing closer to her sister, and striving to keep step with her.
               Unfortunately for her good resolutions, however, they had gone scarcely a rod further, when they reached a point where the ditch ran under the road. Recent heavy rains had washed away a part of the earth that covered it, and one of the logs was displaced. The temptation was too great. Instead of going round the obstacle, as Margaret prepared to do, Bessie hastily withdrew her hand, gave one spring, and landed—not in the mud-puddle exactly, but so near it that her shoes, stockings, and pantalets were in a terrible plight.
               "Why, Bessie Allison! just look at your shoes! You might have known that you could not jump so far."
               Bessie looked ruefully at her feet.
               "I have jumped as far a great many times," she said, measuring the distance with her eye. "Yes, twice as far. But I had bad luck this time. What shall I do?"
               "Go home. There's nothing else you can do. You can not go to meeting in such a fix as this."
               "Oh, but mother won't like it if I do. I wanted to stay at home, and she wouldn't let me; and if I go back, she'll say I did this on purpose—just for an excuse. Wait, Margaret; don't go yet," she added, as her sister took a few steps onward, "do wait for me."
               "Hurry, then, or we shall both be late," said Margaret. "But what are you going to do?"
               "Oh, I can clean my shoes," replied Bessie, at the same time rubbing them vigorously upon the grass. "There! they look quite respectably, and my stockings are not so very bad. But my pantalets—there's the trouble. How do they look, Margaret?"
               "Pretty badly; but they might be worse. Come, Bessie, do something; we can't stay here all day."
               "Why can't I turn them up? My dress is so long that I don't believe any body will notice it. Besides it will be almost dark when we come home."
               So saying, Bessie rolled up her pantalets until the soiled hem was invisible, pushed back the brown hair that had fallen over her face as she did so, drew on her gloves, and declared herself ready to proceed. She had jumped enough for the present, and even Margaret was no more staid and dignified than was she during the remainder of their walk.
               With the intention of calling on a sick neighbor, Mrs. Allison had started for the "five o'clock meeting" an hour in advance of her daughters. Bessie hoped that she had not yet reached the church, but the first thing that met her eye after they entered the door, was the stately figure of her mother in the pew in the corner. Unconsciously she stooped and shrank into as small a compass as possible, as drawing behind Margaret, she followed her up the aisle with a step that had lost all of its usual airy grace, and took her seat in the square, old-fashioned pew.
               Bessie derived one advantage from her unfortunate exploit. So intent was she upon keeping her soiled pantalets talets, and slightly drabbled dress out of her mother's sight, that she forgot that the lecture was long, the church close and hot, and she herself tired with all day's attendance upon services of which she understood but little. For once, the button upon the outside of the pew door was left undisturbed, and she did not open the hymn-book once, excepting at legitimate periods.
               It was past sundown when the congregation were dismissed, and as they emerged from the dusky shadows of the church, the soft summer twilight fell lovingly around them. Bessie was sorry that it was not darker, however, for her efforts to keep in the back-ground was quite ineffectual.
               "Margaret, come walk with me," said Mrs. Allison. "Bessie, go before us, the side-walk is so narrow here."
               Bessie hung back for a little, but the command was repeated, and she obeyed it. Not very reluctantly, one would have imagined, for she moved on so rapidly that her mother's voice soon checked her.
               "Bessie, Bessie! do not walk so fast. It is not proper. Keep just ahead of us—so."
               On they went in the prescribed order for a minute or two. It was not such an unpleasant thing, that walk, with the cool evening breeze fanning one's brow, and the breath of a thousand flowers sweetening the air, even if one was obliged to be quiet and orderly, and listen only to the croaking of the frogs and the lone cry of the whip-powil. At least so thought Bessie.
               "Margaret!" suddenly exclaimed Mrs. Allison, "Why! I see but one of Bessie's pantalets!" and she came to a dead stop.
               Bessie gave a hasty glance downward. One pantalet was indeed visible—the other was not. Her mother viewed her with a scrutinizing gaze from head to foot, while she, blushing and biting her gloves, said not a word.
               "I am astonished, Bessie. I am perfectly astonished, and ashamed of you. To think that a child of mine should be seen in the streets, on the holy Sabbath, looking as you do! Go home as quick as you can, and then I will try to find out the meaning of this."
               They were almost home, and as soon as they entered the house, Mrs. Allison commenced her examination.
               "Come here, Bessie. How dared you go to church with only one pantalet on? I am so mortified!" she exclaimed, lifting both hands to give emphasis to her words.
               "I did not, mother. I had them both on," said Bessie, in a very low voice.
               "Where is it, then?"
               "I rolled it up."
               "Rolled it up! What for?"
               "Because it was so muddy."
               The child's head had sunk lower and lower, until her crimson cheeks were half concealed by her falling hair; and her voice, as she uttered these last words, was almost inaudible. Mrs. Allison was obliged to lean forward upon her elbows, in order to continue the steady, searching gaze that she was bending upon her face.
               "And how did that happen? How did it get muddy?"
               Bessie said not a word.
               "Answer me! What mischief have you been doing now? I do not know what will become of you, Bessie. You grow more and more wicked every day you live."
               Mrs. Allison's voice and manner were harder than her words, and Bessie's tears were streaming.
               "I did not mean to do it, mother," she said, as distinctly as she could. "I jumped over that mud-puddle by the hemlock-tree, and did not jump quite far enough; that was all."
               
               "All! It is a great plenty, I think. Bessie Allison, if I ever know of your doing such a thing again, I will punish you severely. As it is, I forbid your leaving the house to-morrow, at all—or your own room, unless I give you permission. You have no regard for the Sabbath, none at all."
               "But I was so tired, mother," sobbed Bessie; "and I felt as if it would do me good to jump. I had been still all day long."
               "Not still enough to hurt you, I'll engage; and you must expect to be still on Sunday, as long as you are under my control. When I am dead and gone, you can do as you have a mind; but, while I live, you must obey me. Here's Margaret; she has been a great deal more quiet than you have been to-day, and yet you do not hear her complain."
               "Margaret is older than I am, and besides she is not a bit like me. She never feels as I do," said Bessie, making a great effort to control her voice.
               "It's a mercy that she does not!" was the reply; "a mercy to her, and a mercy to me. Margaret tries to do as she ought, and she generally succeeds. Now I understand this whole business. You did not want to go to meeting, and were vexed because I said you must, so you thought you would revenge yourself by soiling your clothes, and appearing in such a condition as would make me wish that I had allowed you to stay at home."
               "It was not so, mother," cried Bessie, half beside herself; "I never thought of such a thing. I was very sorry, and I should have come straight home if I had not been afraid you would be vexed. But I was afraid, and so I cleaned my shoes as well as I could, and turned up my pantalets so that the dirt would not show, and went along. I do try to be a good girl, mother, but it is harder for me to be good than it is for Margaret."
               "Humph! much you know about it. Have you learned your evening verses?"
               "No, ma'am, not yet."
               "Oh, Bessie, Bessie! how you have wasted this holy day! Get your Testament, and sit down by that table, and do not speak a word until you can repeat every one of them. Bring me your book, Margaret. You can say yours?"
               "Yes, ma'am; I learned them while I was eating my luncheon, this noon," replied Margaret.
               "But I could not learn mine, then," interrupted Bessie; "I can't eat and study at once. And more than that, you knew them before. They were in your Sunday-school lesson only four weeks ago."
               "Hush, Bessie," said her mother; "do not let me hear any more remarks of that sort. Study your own lesson. You need not trouble yourself about your sister's."
               Bessie took a seat by the table as she had been told, and commenced reading the first verse of her lesson. She repeated the words over and over, but they left no impression upon her memory. Then she tried the next one, but with no better success. Presently the lines seemed to swim before her eyes, then a blur came over the page, the low murmur of Margaret's voice sounded strangely far off and indistinct, her head dropped upon the book—she was fast asleep.
               Margaret's lesson was repeated to her mother's entire satisfaction—as indeed it should have been, for Bessie had told nothing but the truth—and then Mrs. Allison leaned back in her luxurious rocking-chair, and fanned herself very complacently.
               "The Masons were not out to-day, nor the Harveys either. I do not see how it is that people, who pretend to be Christians, can neglect the house of God as they do. For my part I feel that it is my duty to attend divine worship at all times, and I believe that it is the duty of others also."
               "Why, mother, Willy Mason is very sick, don't you remember? And Mrs. Mason does not keep a hired girl, so they could not go very well."
               "Where there's a will there's a way.' One of them could have been spared for an hour or two, if the boy is sick. But the Harveys have not that excuse. They were all out yesterday."
               "I guess they went out to the lake, to old Mr. Gray's funeral. He was Mrs. Harvey's cousin."
               "Not they, I'll warrant. Mrs. Harvey is not any too apt to acknowledge her poor relations, and the old man was not worth a red cent. I don't believe they rode fifteen miles in the hot sun to see him buried. More likely that they read novels one half the day, and slept the other half."
               Yet Mrs. Allison had just listened to her daughter's recital of the eloquent words of St. Paul; she had heard her say that "Charity believeth all things," and not only that, that it "hopeth all things."
               "Bessie!" she exclaimed, suddenly wheeling round, "have you got your lesson? You have had time enough."
               The sleeping figure moved not, and Mrs. Allison sat for a moment as if petrified with astonishment. Then she rose, and seizing Bessie's arm, shook it violently. But it was to no purpose. It was past her bed-time. She was in her first deep sleep, and was not to be aroused by trifles.
               "I declare I thought I had said enough to the child to-night to make her behave herself, and learn her lesson," said the mother, desisting from her attempts. "But it is of no use. Call Debby, Margaret, and I'll send her to bed."
               Debby came.
               "Take this girl up stairs, Debby," said Mrs. Allison. "Bessie, get up!" and grasping her hand, she pulled her from her chair. "Go with Debby, and remember that you must give an account for this. You shall have no breakfast to-morrow morning until you have learned these verses."
               The words fell upon a scarcely conscious ear. Bessie was just sufficiently awakened to know that Debby's strong arm was thrown around her, and that she was expected to stumble up stairs by her side.
               "The poor lamb!" muttered Debby, as she seated her on the edge of the bed, and tied her nightcap, allowing her to fall asleep again; "Mrs. Allison ain't got no sense nor reason in her. She ain't let her have a minute's peace all day. First there was the verse for the breakfast-table, and arter that she must set down and get her Sunday-school lesson. Then she must go to the school and to meetin', and by the time she had got home and eat her luncheon, it was time to go back again. They didn't take their bonnets off at noon, neither of 'em, and before they'd got their pie half eat up, the bell rang, and they had to march! Then when they got back from the second meetin', she made 'em set right down and read in them big books, the whole blessed afternoon, and go to the lecture besides! 'Tain't right!" she continued, as she took the candle and went down the back stairs to the kitchen. "Maybe it's well enough for Margaret, for she's a regular chip o' the old block. But Bessie—she ain't o' the same natur. I'll see to her breakfast. She sha'n't starve while Debby Wilkins does the cooking, not by a great sight—"
               The kitchen door closed very energetically, and the remainder of Debby's soliloquy was delivered over the milk-pail she was washing.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "She will not heed to-morrow;
                           She will not take to care;
                           Her eyes, like suns, make every cloud
                           Their laughing colors wear.
                           And if the earth be green or bare,
                           And if the sky be dark or clear,
                           She carries with her every where
                           Her own bright atmosphere."
                        
                     
                     ELIZA L. SPROAT.
                  
               
               THE sisters occupied the same room, and just after sunrise Bessie was awakened by an unceremonious shake. On opening her eyes, she saw Margaret standing by the bedside, nearly dressed.
               "Come, Bessie," she said, a little impatiently, "how many times do you want to be called? This is the third time I've tried to wake you up."
               "Is it? Well, I'll get up in just a minute," and Bessie laid her head on the pillow again, and lay there winking slowly. She was, apparently, very comfortable.
               "Don't get up unless you want to," said Margaret, dryly. "You don't care for any breakfast, I suppose, and haven't any thing to learn before you can have it, either."
               Bessie bounded on to the floor, and commenced putting on her shoes and stockings with the utmost alacrity.
               "Oh, my verses!" she exclaimed, "I had forgotten all about them. I ought to have got up before. Is breakfast ready, Margaret?"
               "No, you've got almost an hour yet. You can learn them in that time easily enough, if you only try,"
               Margaret was tying on her apron, and as she finished speaking she turned toward the door.
               "Oh, Margaret, I wish you would stay and help me," cried Bessie, "it takes me so long to hook my frock, and my hair is in such a snarl!"
               "I can't, I'm going out in the garden to pick raspberries—mother said I might."
               "But if you'll only wait just two minutes and help me a little bit, I'll learn my verses in a trice, and then I can go in the garden too. Do Margaret!" and the little pleader's eyes swam in tears.
               "If you had learned them last night, as you ought, you could go now. It isn't my fault that you did not, I'm sure. No, you could not go now, either," she continued, as she swung the door backward and forward, "for mother said you must not go out of doors to-day."
               Margaret went down stairs, and Bessie proceeded with her dressing—not very expeditiously, it must be confessed.
               "I don't care whether I have any breakfast or not," she thought. "I am not a bit hungry, and had just as lief go without it; besides, it's of no use to hurry, if I've got to stay cooped up here all day. I think Margaret might have staid and helped me, though," and she dipped both hands up and down in the wash-basin, marveling at their apparently increasing size as the water flowed over them.
               Her good-humor soon returned, however, and she began to think breakfast would not be such a bad thing after all. So taking her little Testament she sat down on a low seat by the bed-side, resolutely turning her back to the window, that the sight of Margaret busy among the raspberry-bushes might not divert her attention, and applied herself diligently to her task.
               She had five verses to commit to memory, and was studying the fourth when the bell rang.
               
               "There! breakfast is ready this very minute!" she exclaimed, starting up, and then resuming her seat again; "But I can't go down," she continued, thoughtfully; "mother told me not to leave this room without permission."
               At that moment the door opened, and Mrs. Allison entered.
               "Are you ready to repeat your lesson, Bessie?" she asked.
               "Almost, mother. Not quite. I've been studying just as hard!"
               "Very well. You know what I told you last night," was the reply.
               The door closed, and Bessie allowed her book to slip from her lap to the floor. She was both grieved and angry. She felt, although she was incapable of analyzing the feeling, that she was unjustly treated, or, at least, that justice was not tempered by mercy.
               "If mother had just said one kind word to me!" she sobbed. "I got up just as soon as I thought of the verses. Maybe I might have dressed a little quicker, but it always takes me forever to hook my frock! I've studied every minute since."
               A stealthy step was heard on the stairs, and presently the door-knob turned very softly. The door creaked on its hinges, and Bessie watched it curiously, wondering who was coming now.
               It was Debby.
               "Hush!" she whispered, holding up one finger; "don't you breathe loud, Bessie—not for an interest in Goshen. See here, I've brought you some breakfast."
               Stepping cautiously back into the entry, she returned with a small tray, on which was arranged as dainty a meal as a hungry child need ask for.
               "Come, now, I'll fix it right here on this 'ere stand, Bessie. Draw right up and go to eating, and be just as spry as you can be. Your mother'll take our ears off if she ketches us at it."
               Bessie looked first at the slice of fine white bread, the boiled egg, and the saucer of raspberries—then at Debby, then at her book. Her color came and went, but she did not move.
               "Don't be afraid, Bessie. Come right along. I'll take all the blame if any body finds us out. Debby Wilkins's shoulders are pretty broad, and I guess she can stan' it."
               "I ain't afraid, Debby, but I don't want to eat now."
               "Ain't you hungry?"
               "Yes, but—"
               "Don't you be a little dunce, then. You have n't got a might o' time to spare. The folks are half done eating by this;" and so saying, Debby laid her hand heavily but kindly on Bessie's arm, and attempted to lead her toward the stand.
               But the child drew back.
               "No, no, Debby, I can't eat. Mother would n't like it. I must learn my verses first."
               "Pshaw! let 'em go. You can get 'em afterward. These raspberries are grand, you'd better believe. I picked 'em for you myself, and every single one on 'em is big enough for a mouthful."
               Bessie's mouth watered as she looked at the delicious fruit, smothered in cream and sugar.
               "They're beautiful, Debby, and I'm sure I thank you very much—just as much as if I could eat them. But I do not want to eat any thing till mother says I may. I'll starve first."
               Debby surveyed her a moment or two from head to foot before she replied.
               "Well, you're a real good girl—better than I be, or ever was. I'd eat 'em if I was you."
               "No, I am not good at all; I grow wicked all the time," said Bessie, sorrowfully. "Mother says so, and I suppose that is the reason I went to sleep last night. Take the things down, Debby, before any body knows you brought them to me."
               "If this don't beat all my wife's relations!" exclaimed Debby, stooping to give Bessie a hearty kiss, and, albeit she was not of the "melting mood," wiping her eyes with the back of her hand. "You're just the queerest young one! Why, I thought you'd be tickled near about to death, when you see that tray o' victuals. I took real comfort a-getting them ready."
               Bessie wanted to say something that was very kind to Debby, but, somehow, she could not bring it about. So, in lieu of words, she threw both arms about her neck, and kissed first one cheek and then the other.
               "There! they are getting up from the table," she said, suddenly, "I hear the chairs move; Debby, Debby, do go quick!"
               Debby seized her tray, darted through the hall, and was down the back stairs before the commotion had subsided. Bessie went slowly back to her seat, picked up her book, and commenced studying again. She took no credit to herself for having refused Debby's kind proffer. Perhaps a "still small voice" was audible within her little heart, telling her that although it was right for her to refuse it, there was a sprinkling of pride and wilfullness in the refusal.
               In the course of an hour, Mrs. Allison came up stairs again. The verses were repeated without the slightest mistake, and Bessie stood patiently by her mother's side, hoping for a pleasant word, or at least a smile, in acknowledgment. But none came.
               "Did I learn them well, mother," she asked, timidly, after a long silence, during which Mrs. Allison's eyes were busy in the garden.
               "Yes, well enough," was the cold reply. "If you had said them as well last night, I should have thought you deserved some little credit for it. As it is, you do not deserve any. I hope this will teach you that you will gain nothing by such a course as you pursued yesterday. You are old enough to behave better."
               "Mother," said Bessie, earnestly, "I did not mean to go to sleep; I was asleep before I knew it. I do want to be a good girl."
               "Prove it by your actions, then; they will speak louder than words. Now go down stairs and get some bread and milk for your breakfast; and I really hope that I shall not have occasion to reprove you again to-day."
               If there was any thing that Bessie particularly disliked, it was bread and milk, and of this her mother was perfectly aware. But by this time the sun was high in the heavens, and she was so faint that she felt as if she could eat any thing.
               "If I could only have some raspberries to put in the milk," she thought, "I should like it very much."
               She did not like to ask for them, however; so she ate her bread and milk in silence, and then went out on the piazza, and stood there leaning her head against one of the pillars.
               It was a warm morning, but the yard was well shaded, and a cool breeze fluttered the leaves, and made pleasant music among the tree-tops. The garden looked very inviting, the grape-arbor seemed wooing her to a seat within its fragrant recess, and the birds and the flowers, with drops of dew still lingering in their little cups, spoke to her in most intelligible language. Forgetful that she was a prisoner that day, she was just looking for her sunbonnet, when her mother called her.
               "Bessie! you seem to have forgotten that you were not to leave your room to-day without permission. When you had finished your breakfast, you should have gone up stairs at once. Go now; make your bed and put your room in order, and then sit down and reflect upon your conduct."
               "It is Margaret's turn to make the bed," said Bessie, as she slowly entered the house, with tears in her eyes; "I made it all last week, and you said we should take turns."
               "Hush! no impertinence! Go and do as I bade you, and do not come down until you are called."
               The remaining hours of that forenoon seemed interminable to Bessie. She pined for the open air, for a good run on the green-sward, and the four walls of her room seemed stifling her. But they passed at length—dinner came to her relief, and she returned to her temporary prison considerably relieved; more by the change of scene, however, than by the food she had eaten.
               Bessie was naturally a gay, light-hearted child, full of fun and frolic and innocent gladness; and nature had as yet been strong enough to resist the influence of the training to which she was subjected. Songs and laughter were native to her lips, and if any thing occurred to check their flow, or to depress her spirits for a while, a powerful reaction was almost certain to take place. It was so this afternoon. The morning had been gloomy enough, and she had felt little disposition to do any thing more than to lay her head on the edge of a chair, and watch the flickering shadows made by the maple-leaves opposite the window, as they danced and wavered on the ceiling overhead. There was a sick, faint feeling at her heart, as she thought of her mother's words on the previous night: "You grow more and more wicked every day you live."
               "If that is true," she said to herself as she sat there alone in her chamber, while the sounds of life from below stairs, stealing up at intervals with a far-off, dream-like sound, made her feel still more lonely, "then I'm sure I do not want to live any longer. If I could only be as good as Margaret! But it is not of any use for me to try. The more I do try, the more I laugh and jump and say things that mother says are wicked, and I suppose it's going to grow worse and worse."
               Just then her eye wandered off down a green lane behind the garden. It led to a little inclosure surrounded by a white paling, within which lay the remains of many of her kindred. Multitudes of such inclosures may be seen in New York, and in some of the New England States, scattered all over the land; now upon the sunny hill-side, shaded only by some stately forest-tree, now in some quiet nook half hidden among shrubs and flowers, now in some green field where the sunlight falls throughout the livelong day, and the wind as it sweeps over the bending grass gives out low strains of fitful melody.
               Sad yet beautiful mementoes are they, that every where man loves and suffers—that every where Death makes unto himself holy ground.
               But, to return to Bessie. The little "place of graves" was too far off for her to distinguish its particular features, but she knew there was a small mound there—a mound far shorter than herself. She remembered lying down on the thick turf beside it, when it scarcely stretched beyond her. But that was years ago. To the child it seemed ages. She had not yet outgrown the happy period when one summer seems an eternity.
               "I wonder what was the reason Annie died, and I did not?" she exclaimed aloud, as her thoughts followed the direction of her eye. "Now, maybe if she had lived she would have been a great deal better girl than I am. Maybe she would have been just like Margaret, and then mother would have had no trouble at all. But, then, maybe she would not; maybe she would have been just like me!"
               Then she fell to wondering how her dead sister would have looked. She could recall a faint glimpse of a tiny head, around which light spiral curls waved softly; of a pair of dark blue eyes, and a mouth that seemed formed for kisses—that was all. And then she thought of the angels with their snowy wings, their white robes, and their golden crowns; of the harpings and the singing, of the blood-washed throng, and the Shepherd who gathereth the lambs to his bosom.
               Annie in heaven seemed to her far more blessed than Bessie on earth.
               But sadness and childhood are rarely boon companions. Bessie, as we have said, went up stairs after dinner was over, in a very different frame of mind, and at once set to work to make herself comfortable. It was no very unusual thing for her to be shut up by herself, and as silence was by no means her forte, she was greatly in the habit of soliloquizing, and of carrying on one-sided conversations with every thing around her.
               "Now, if I only had something to do this afternoon," she said, in accordance with this habit, "I could get along nicely. The sun has gone round, so that I can have the window blind open, and then it will be cooler and pleasanter than it was this forenoon. I wonder where my wax doll is, that Aunt Ellen sent me? Locked up in mother's bureau, I suppose. I do wish it was not so nice—too nice to be played with. It don't do me a bit of good, wrapped up in the very same papers that were round it when it first came, ever so long ago; and mother won't get me another, because she says I have one already. Oh dear! Pshaw—why can't I read?" she continued, approaching some hanging shelves, and taking down one book after another.
               She did not seem easily satisfied, however, for every volume was taken from its place and deposited on the table beneath, before she ceased.
               "There is not a story-book here that I have not read fifty times," she said, as she began to replace them, sighing heavily; "and that is not saying much, for there are only half a dozen of them, any how. And these other books I can't understand if I try ever so hard, and I don't get a bit interested in them. Oh dear!" she sighed again.
               "Well, if I can't do any thing else, I'll just hop round and make believe dance. Mother says it is wicked to dance, but there can't be any harm in just making believe," and away she went on the tips of her toes with a grace and lightness that many a ball-room belle might have envied.
               Hither and yon, now here and now there, with eyes that sparkled, and cheeks that glowed, flew our little dancer. The ribbon that confined her mass of wavy hair was loosened and fell at her feet, but she did not stop to pick it up. It was no great loss, for when left to itself her hair fell in ripples nearly to her waist, where the ends coiled themselves up in a host of tiny curls. On she went, gliding about like a fairy, while holding a scarf above her head after the style of some picture she had seen; and finally paused before the looking-glass, as she was about to execute some unusually elaborate figure.
               It was in this rather equivocal position that Margaret found her as she suddenly opened the door.
               "Mother sent me up to see what you are about," was her first salutation. "You've been making noise enough to craze a nation for the last five minutes. What are you doing there before the looking-glass? admiring yourself?"
               "No," said Bessie, coloring to the roots of her hair, "I wanted to see how this scarf looked—that's all."
               
               "Well, if you've found out, I'll put it up. What business had you to go to my drawer?"
               "I did not go to it; you left it on the bureau, and it was not even folded up. I never open your drawers, and I haven't hurt the scarf at all, for I was careful as could be."
               "Where's your hair ribbon? You look like a crazy girl."
               "Here it is," said Bessie, picking it up, and winding it round her finger to take out the creases.
               "I should think it had been stepped on as much as once," said Margaret, eyeing it askance. "Why don't you take better care of your things? I always do of mine."
               "Yes," retorted Bessie, "you took good care of your scarf last night. What are you folks down stairs doing to-day?"
               "Nothing particular. If mother thought it was important that you should know, she would send for you. But she wants to know what you were doing, to make so much noise?"
               "I was dancing—making believe dance, I mean, just to see how it would seem," replied Bessie, with a sidelong glance at Margaret's face; "I did not suppose there was any harm in that."
               Margaret went down stairs, and presently returned with a message from Mrs. Allison to the effect that Bessie was to quit dancing for the present, and keep herself quiet.
               Accordingly she smoothed her hair, picked up every thing that she had danced out of place, and seated herself by the window with a book in her hand. But she did not read. She was watching the floating clouds and the shadows that flitted like wierd, unearthly phantoms over the field of tall grass on the opposite side of the road; and trying to count its undulations as the wind swept over it.
               Presently her attention was attracted by the figure of a girl coming down the road at a little distance.
               "It is Ellen Wentworth!" she exclaimed, after gazing at her for a moment. "But what is she carrying in that basket?"
               Miss Ellen drew nearer and nearer until she was just beneath the window.
               "Ellen!" said Bessie, very softly, "Ellen!"
               Ellen started, and looked anxiously about her in quest of the owner of the voice.
               "Here I am, Ellen," said Bessie, again; "right up here in the chamber window. How do you do?"
               "Pretty well. I could not imagine where you were!"
               "Oh! I'm up here. What have you in that basket you are carrying so carefully—eggs?"
               "No," said Ellen, laughing—"But do come down, I can't talk to you up there. It hurts my neck."
               "Stand out a little further from the house, then. I can't come down, Ellen; that is—not now."
               "Why not?"
               "Oh—because—! Mother does not want me to. Hark!" and Bessie paused in the attitude of listening.
               Very soon Ellen attempted to speak again.
               "Hush, Ellen, do!" whispered Bessie. "I'm sure I heard a kitten."
               "I shouldn't wonder if you did," replied Ellen, with a low laugh. "See here!"
               Lifting the cover of her basket, she displayed two beautiful kittens, one gray, with white feet and a star on its breast, and the other nearly white, with a few spots of yellowish brown.
               "Oh, what beauties! Where did you get them, Ellen?"
               
               "Mrs. Clyde gave them to me. Do you want one? I did not care to have two, but I guess she wanted to get rid of them. She would put them both in."
               "Yes, I would like one very much indeed. They're beautiful, both of them! But how can I get it? I can't come down for it, and I dare not have you come up here, either."
               "I might put it down in the grass somewhere, and cover it up."
               "Oh, no!" exclaimed Bessie, "that won't do. It might run away, or get hurt, or something. If I could only reach the basket!
               "Oh, I know!" she exclaimed, after a moment's pause. "I've got it all fixed now. Here's a long cord, and you can tie it to the basket and let me pull it up. That's just it!"
               "So it is!" said Ellen. "But which kitten do you want?"
               "I don't care. Just the one you would rather give me."
               "I don't much care, either," responded Ellen, deliberately. "They're both pretty. But, somehow, I like the white one the best. It looks so funny!"
               "Let me have the gray one, then. It suits me just as well. Here's the cord—one end of it."
               The cord was fastened to the handle of the basket, and the gray kitten deposited in it. But when Bessie attempted to draw it up, a serious difficulty presented itself. Kitty would jump upon her hind legs, put her paws on the edge of the basket, and attempt to look over.
               "This will never do," said Bessie, after several trials. "She'll break her neck, certainly. Can't you tie her in, some way?"
               "I don't think I could, and besides I haven't any string. Oh, I can fasten my handkerchief right over the top of the basket."
               "Yes, or put the cover on," said Bessie, laughing. "We are two bright girls, I think. It lies on the grass right behind you."
               "Sure enough! I never thought that there was a cover; suppose we put both kittens in, and let Whitey have a ride too?"
               "Do. But what shall I call my kitty?"
               "I don't know. Call her Whitefoot."
               "Yes! and you call yours Whitey. Here they come, heigh-ho!"
               Soon Ellen said she must hurry home, and the basket and Whitey were let down to her again.
               "I'm very much obliged to you, Ellen," said Bessie, "and I shall bring Whitefoot over to your house, to make Whitey a visit, one of these days, if mother'll let me. Good-by!"
               "Good-by," responded Ellen; and off she ran.
               Bessie thought that kitten was surely a godsend. It was a pretty little creature, just old enough to be playful and cunning; and moreover Miss Pussy could dance and jump as much as she pleased, or as her young mistress pleased to have her, for the tread of her velvet feet could not reach the easily disturbed ears in the sitting-room.
               "Come, Whitefoot, you must be tired. It is time for you to go to sleep," she said, after laughing until she was satisfied at its various maneuvers. "Now I'm going to make you a night-cap and night-gown and put you to bed."
               So saying she took some bits of muslin from a basket that stood on the table, hastily cut out something that bore a very faint resemblance to a cap, tacked it together, tied it on pussy's head, and pronounced it a "perfect fit." A night-gown was made after the same expeditious fashion, and then Whitefoot was placed upon the bed, while Bessie proceeded to give her lessons in the "art and mystery" of going to sleep in this new-fangled style.
               
               She was bending over her with a very eager face, trying to make her keep her paws in a certain position, and all the while laughing at the comical picture of kitty in a night-cap, when Mrs. Allison quietly entered the room. She was standing by Bessie's side before the latter was aware of her approach.
               Up jumped kitty as Bessie's hand was suddenly withdrawn, and she went frisking and rolling about, trying to disengage herself from her unwonted garments, while Bessie stood with downcast eyes and crimson cheeks, hardly knowing whether to laugh or cry.
               Mrs. Allison looked from one to the other with a horror-stricken face.
               "I shall despair of you entirely before long, Bessie, if you persist in such conduct as this," she said, at last. "I kept you up here to-day in order that you might reflect upon your evil ways. There are plenty of good books upon the shelves there, and I hoped you would spend your time in reading them and in reflection. But instead of that you have been playing all day."
               "No, ma'am," interrupted Bessie, "I did not play at all this forenoon—I was just as still as I could be."
               "All this afternoon, then. Where did you get that kitten?"
               "Ellen Wentworth gave it to me."
               "When?"
               "This afternoon."
               "Has she been up here?"
               "No, ma'am. I drew the kitten up in a basket."
               Just then kitty, in her efforts to extricate herself from her night-gown, drew it over her head; and as it was tied around her neck, she was completely blinded. It was one of Bessie's misfortunes—a fault, her mother called it—that she laughed very easily, and oftentimes against her will. Vainly she struggled with her inclination to laugh now. Kitty cut all manner of capers, and just as Bessie uttered the last words a smothered laugh burst from her lips.
               Mrs. Allison was as angry as she ever allowed herself to be. She was a woman who prided herself on her perfect self-control. She was never excited, never in a passion, never carried away by her feelings; she did not believe in such things, and she had no sympathy with those who differed from her.
               She looked at Bessie for a moment or two with a stern, upbraiding glance, and then took up the kitten.
               Bessie sprang forward, and grasped her mother's arm.
               "Oh, mother, what are you going to do with kitty?" she asked, in a trembling voice.
               "Send her back the same way she came," was the reply, as Mrs. Allison approached the window.
               "Oh, don't throw her out! please don't, mother! It will kill her certainly, and I won't bring her up stairs again. Please don't!"
               "You will not bring her up stairs again, whether I throw her out or not, for I shall not allow you to keep her. You know well enough that I do not wish you to associate with Ellen Wentworth, and you should not have spoken to her at all."
               Bessie made no reply, and Mrs. Allison proceeded.
               "This kitten has been the cause of your committing great errors already, and you must not have her. Neither must you go down to your supper. I came up stairs hoping to find you sorrowful, penitent, and sensible of your faults, but instead of that I find you intent only upon your own amusement. You sing and play, and enjoy yourself as well as if you had never done any thing wrong in your life, and you even laugh in my face while I am reproving you. Nothing seems to make the least impression upon you. Put down your apron, Bessie, and look at me. Are you not sorry that you broke the Sabbath, yesterday?"
               Bessie hesitated a little, and then said, very faintly,
               "No, ma'am."
               "Not sorry! Then I can not talk with you any more. If your heart is so hard and so corrupt that you are not sorry that you have disobeyed God's holy word and broken his commandment, whatever I say to you only increases your guilt. You are a very bad girl, Bessie;" and so saying, Mrs. Allison turned to leave the room.
               "Don't look at me so, mother," exclaimed Bessie, catching hold of her mother's dress to detain her. "I do not feel as if I was as wicked as you think I am. I am sorry I jumped over the mud-puddle, because I got my clothes dirty and made you trouble, but I didn't mean to break the Sabbath or to disobey God. I would n't do that for the world, and I didn't even think of it."
               "But you should have thought of it. That is the very thing I complain of; you never think. You do not deserve any supper, but I will send you some, and I hope that to-morrow morning will find you in a different frame of mind."
               With a heavy sigh, Bessie threw herself on a chair, and listened to her mother's footsteps as she descended the stairs, carrying the kitten with her.
               "I wish there was n't any such day as Sunday," she said, at length. "It is harder to be good then than on any other day in the week, and I am always doing something that I ought not. I get so tired, too, and I believe that is the very reason that I act so!'
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Love is life—is God;
                           Heaven is love, and lies around;
                           And the pathway oftenest trod
                           Is its holiest ground.
                           So my thoughts shall be as prayers,
                           Not to some dim realm above,
                           But the heaven the meanest shares;—
                           To dear hearts, for love.
                        
                     
                     MISS SPROAT.
                  
               
               "MIS' ALLISON," said Debby, putting her head into the sitting-room one morning, several weeks afterward. "Mis' Allison, if the girls could help me about washin' the breakfast dishes, I should be dreadful glad. You see the sponge is riz, and it's time I was a seein' to't. Then, I've got to churn this forenoon, and pick them chickens, and mop up, and it'll be about as much as I can do to get round by dinner-time. If they could wash up the clean dishes, as I call 'em—the cups and saucers, and spoons and plates, and sich like—it would help me a sight."
               "Very well, Debby. Leave them on the table in the dining-room, and they shall be attended to. Put on your long-sleeved aprons, girls," continued Mrs. Allison, turning to her daughters, as Debby withdrew, "and see how nicely you will do them. And be careful not to spill water on the carpet, as you did the other day."
               "I did not spill a drop," said Margaret, "It was Bessie who was washing, and made that slop. I'm going to wash this time."
               "No, you are not," interrupted Bessie. "It's my turn. You said you would wash twice, and I twice, and I have n't washed but just once yet. It's my turn to-day."
               "Well, but you make such a muss, and wet the table and the carpet so."
               "That would not alter the bargain, if it was all true," said Bessie; "but it is not. I don't spill a bit more water than you do. The dish-pan leaked the other day, and there was a slop under the table before I knew it."
               "You did n't tip over the pitcher when it was half full, I suppose?" asked Margaret, dryly.
               "Yes; but you know it wasn't until after the carpet was all wet, so it didn't make much difference. But never mind. You may wash them this morning, if you want to, Margaret," and Bessie took up her dish-towel very resolutely.
               This act of childish self-abnegation had very much the appearance of an after-thought. And so, indeed, it was. Margaret looked curiously at her sister for a moment or two, and then proceeded to wash the teaspoons.
               It must be confessed that our little Bessie was not over fond of work; yet, as a general thing, when once fairly engaged, she entered into the occupation of the moment heart and soul; and would accomplish as much in half an hour as some girls of her age would in half a day. For some minutes she stood silently by Margaret's side, polishing the spoons and forks until the most notable housekeeper might have commended their brilliancy. But her face wore an unusually absent look. Her thoughts were evidently elsewhere. At length her hands slowly ceased their action, and she remained perfectly still, gazing apparently at a stain upon the table.
               "Come, wake up!" said Margaret, laying a wet finger upon her sister's cheek. "What are you looking at?"
               "Oh, at nothing!" replied Bessie, starting from her trance; "I was thinking about my last Sunday-school book."
               "Wondering whether you had better read it?" asked Margaret.
               "No; I read it through long ago."
               "I did n't know as you ever read them."
               "Why, Margaret, I always do when there are any stories in them. And there was such a sweet one in this about two sisters. Maggie, let's you and I love each other a great deal better than we do now. Don't you think it would be a good plan?"
               "I don't know. But I wish you wouldn't call me Maggie. I can't bear it! We don't quarrel very often, I'm sure."
               "No," said Bessie, slowly, and apparently studying her words; "but just not quarreling isn't enough. Somehow, it seems to me as if we didn't really love each other as well as we should."
               "Why, I haven't any thing against you—not that I know of," replied Margaret; "only that you do so much mischief, and are so wild. I did not suppose that you had any thing against me either."
               "Ah, I don't mean that, Margaret! I mean—"
               But here she paused. It was very difficult for her to tell what she meant. The "sweet story" of which she had spoken had stirred her young heart to its innermost depths, and awakened there an eager yearning to receive and to feel the sisterly love that was so glowingly portrayed in its touching pages. Yet she could not say this. Poor Bessie! She will probably learn more than once, or twice, or thrice, ere her life-experience is ended, that it is no easy task to describe a feeling or an emotion in terms that shall be intelligible to those whose hearts have never thrilled to the same soft music.
               "I mean," she continued, after awhile, "that we don't seem to love each other dearly. I want to love you a great deal more, if you will let me—for I know I can."
               "I shan't hinder you, I'm sure. You may love me just as well as you have a mind to. But I tell you what it is, Bessie—how long is this freak of yours going to last? About half an hour, I expect. You are always getting some such crotchet into your head."
               "It will last a long time, Margaret," said Bessie, with tears in her eyes, "if you will only love me better too. It seems as if it would be a great deal easier for me to be good, if we loved each other as well as the sisters in that story did."
               "Pshaw! what's that to do with it? But it's a bargain any how. From this time forward we are to be like a pair of turtle-doves, cooing all the time. The next thing is, how shall we begin? Have you thought of that?"
               "You're just laughing at me, Margaret; I know you are, even if you do keep your face straight;" and Bessie's voice trembled, in spite of herself. "I can't tell you how to begin to love me, if you don't know already. But I tried to be a good, kind sister when I let you wash the dishes."
               "So far so good. I guess the best of the bargain will be on my side, if you only hold out. See that you don't get in a passion about something before night, will you?"
               "I'll try not to. But, Margaret, you don't know how hard it is for me to keep my temper sometimes. You never seem to get real angry, but you say things that vex me, and then I don't know what I am about. That's the reason I said it would be easier for me to be good if we loved each other better; for then I shouldn't be so apt to think you in earnest when you say them."
               Two or three hours afterward, Bessie came to her sister, who was sitting on the piazza, sewing.
               "Margaret," said she, with drooping eyes and glowing cheeks, "Margaret, I want you to love me, even if I do get angry and say what I ought not. That's the very time when you should love me. Any body will when I'm good and pleasant."
               Margaret moved, half impatiently, in her chair.
               "Mercy! are you thinking about that yet?—Here, take this work to mother, and ask her which way I must turn the fell."
               Very soon she returned with the necessary directions.
               "Will you, Margaret?"
               "Will I what?"
               "Do as I said I wanted you to."
               "I don't know about it; I can tell better when the time comes. You'd better go now and mend the frock you tore yesterday. The piece-bag is up stairs in the south closet, and there's thread in the stand-drawer."
               Bessie wondered why her throat ached so, as she turned away, and why it was so difficult to keep back the tears that were just ready to flow. It certainly was not because she was unwilling to mend her dress. She had as lief do that as not.
               For several days every thing went on very smoothly. Bessie began to think that her new recipe for making a good girl of herself was already working wonders, and to congratulate herself on the fortunate result of her experiment. It never occurred to her that—so anxious was she to mold their life after the fashion of that of the sweet sisters of the story-book—it never occurred to her that during those days she did nothing but make concessions; that even in the most trivial matters she was continually yielding her own will to that of another. She did not see that that other—perhaps merely for the sake of trying her, and in order to ascertain how far her good resolutions would carry her—was unusually exacting ing in her requirements. Consequently, she never paused to reflect that she was neither a saint, an angel, nor a paragon of patience and gentleness, and that it was scarcely possible for this state of things to continue long.
               Things went on, as we have seen, very smoothly for several days. But one unlucky morning, Bessie (to use a favorite expression of Debby's) "got out of bed wrong foot foremost." She had such days occasionally—who has not?—days when every thing went wrong with her; when the nerves of her mind as well as those of her body, seemed unusually sensitive; when trifles that in a different state of mental and physical health would have been scarcely heeded, goaded her almost to frenzy; when a discordant sound sent a painful thrill through every fiber of her frame, and when every harsh word and look sank like lead to the very bottom of her heart.
               She was learning to form letters with her needle; in other words she was making a sampler. This last word may possibly puzzle some of our younger readers; for in these days of indelible ink, the good, old-fashioned sampler, upon which the maidens of the olden time were wont to exercise their ingenuity, has fallen somewhat into disrepute. But if they have not forgotten their last visit to their grandmother, they may possibly remember that upon the wall of the best parlor there hung a square bit of canvas, neatly framed, and protected by a glass. All the letters of the alphabet were wrought thereon, in divers forms, and stitches, and sizes; and there was perhaps a weeping willow there, also, drooping over a young lady whose white dress was not at all tumbled, or disarranged, or soiled by her position upon the grass. And there were family names, and dates of births and of deaths, and at the bottom their grandmother's maiden name in full, as a mute witness that all the above was her work.
               That was a sampler—and upon such a piece of handiwork was Bessie now engaged.
               It was a dark, dismal, dreary day. The rain came not in "beaded drops," but in wild, fitful gusts, dashing against the window-panes, and beating down the few flowers that still lingered in the garden; while the wind sighed and moaned, and muttered, as it rattled the casements, or made the beech-trees and the maples writhe and tremble like timid children in the fierce grasp of a maniac.
               Bessie was ever keenly alive to all the varied aspects of the outer world, and as she took her usual seat by the window this morning, she shivered and shrugged her shoulders most disconsolately. Her work lay in her lap, and her thimble remained in its accustomed place in her work-box for some moments, while she sat gazing at the garden-walks, and at the deep gulleys in the flower-beds. She was more in the mood for listening to the dreamy symphonies that the wind-sprites were playing than for attending to her usual duties.
               "Go to work, Bessie," said Mrs. Allison. "You are idling away the whole morning, and will accomplish nothing at this rate."
               Bessie took up her sampler.
               "I hate this square stitch," said she; "it's a great deal harder than marking-stitch. I do not know where to begin the capital L."
               "Examine your pattern and you will probably learn. You certainly will not obtain any information on that point by staring out of the window."
               The pattern was examined very faithfully, and the troublesome letter commenced. But Bessie had taken but a few stitches, when she became aware that she was going wrong. Vainly she tried to discover her error.
               "This is not right, mother," she said, at length, "and I don't know what's the matter with it. I've looked and looked."
               "Count your threads, then," was the reply.
               "I have counted them, ever so many times," said Bessie, rising, as she spoke, and approaching her mother, with the sampler in one hand, and her pattern in the other; "will you please to tell me what the trouble is?"
               Mrs. Allison drew back and waved her off.
               "No. Go back to your seat, and study it out for yourself. You will never know any thing if I always show you. Count your threads over again."
               Bessie obeyed, but with no better success than before. She was completely puzzled.
               "I can not tell what is wrong about it, mother," she said; "but something is. It does not seem as if there were too many threads.
               "Pick it out, then, and take a fresh start."
               She did so. The second attempt, however, was no better than the first, and the third and fourth were worse and worse. Her eyes were fatigued, and she could scarcely distinguish the meshes, and her brain was bewildered and confused. The moisture from her hands, stray tears that had occasionally fallen, and the repeated picking out of the silk, had disfigured the canvas, taken out all the stiffening, and drawn the threads apart. Thus two hours rolled on, and the letter L was no nearer its completion than when she first opened her work-box. Mrs. Allison had left the room some time previous, and Margaret, having finished her task, was amusing herself elsewhere.
               After the fifth trial Bessie threw down her work in despair, and burying her face in her hands, burst into a violent flood of tears. While she was thus occupied, Margaret returned.
               "Oh, what a baby you are!" she exclaimed. "You cry for every little thing. You've been fussing over that L long enough to make a dozen letters. I could in half the time."
               "I've tried just as hard as I could to get it right," replied Bessie, picking up the sampler, "but it will come wrong. Do look at it, Margaret, and see what is the matter with it."
               "No. You're big enough to find out for yourself. Mercy! it's just as easy! Why, I worked that big sampler in the north room before I was as old as you, and never thought of having any trouble. Aunt Ellen says mine is a real beauty, but this one," continued Margaret, taking up Bessie's, and examining it critically, "this one is not going to be fit to be seen. It is not worth framing."
               "Then there's no use in my working on it any more," cried Bessie, passionately; "I won't touch it again!"
               "Probably not," said Margaret, laughing sarcastically. "It will be just as you say about it, I presume. No, you must finish it, and then mother will have it hung up in the parlor, by the side of grandpa's portrait. This beauty-spot you've been making to-day will look beautifully there."
               "I shan't finish it! Mother won't do any such thing!" sobbed Bessie, stamping her foot in impotent rage. "I'll throw it in the fire!"
               "I advise you to, by all means; mother would be so pleased when she found it out. I tell you this is a precious piece of work, Bessie," she added, holding it up before the window with the thumb and finger of each hand. "It's beautiful! We will send it to the next county fair, and you'll certainly get one of the first class premiums. Do look at that H! I should think it had been struck by lightning."
               "I'll burn it up! I'll burn it up! Nobody shall ever see it again!" And with one bound Bessie sprang to her sister's side, snatched the offending sampler from her hand, and was half way to the kitchen, before Margaret had divined her purpose.
               The latter ran after her, and grasped both her arms just above the elbows.
               "Bessie Allison, what are you about?" she exclaimed. "Are you not ashamed of yourself to get in such a passion? If you burn up this sampler I guess you'll repent it. Mother will give you one training!"
               "I don't care if she does! I'll put it where I shall never see it again, nor you either. You've been plagueing me about it ever since I began it. Let me go, I say!" and Bessie writhed and struggled to escape from her sister's grasp.
               "I shan't; and you'd better be quiet, if you know what's good for yourself. Stop kicking and scratching so. Why, what a dear little lamb you are! How much do you love me now, eh, Bessie? Where has your goodness gone to?"
               This last taunt was too much. Bessie was already half beside herself, and this drove her almost to frenzy. With one mighty effort she drew herself from Margaret's hands and turning suddenly round, gave her a violent push backward.
               It was entirely unlooked for, and consequently, Margaret was not prepared to meet it. She staggered back and then lost her balance. As she fell her head struck the sharp corner of the table, and a slight gash upon her temple was the result.
               The wound was not deep, but it bled profusely. Bessie was terribly frightened. Every trace of anger fled in a moment, and rushing to her sister's side she tried to stanch the blood, mingling the while her tears, her protestations of sorrow, and her prayers for forgiveness.
               "Oh, I did not mean to do it, Margaret! I had no idea of pushing you down! Oh, I am so sorry! What shall I do? What shall I do? Won't you forgive me, Margaret? I did not mean to do it. I would not have done it on purpose for the world. I only wanted to get away from you. Do forgive me, Margaret?"
               Thus she ran on. But not one word in reply was vouchsafed to her earnest prayer. Coldly and calmly Margaret arose, wiped the blood from her face, glanced at the wound in the looking-glass, and then approached the door.
               "Do speak to me, Margaret!" cried Bessie. "Do say that you don't think I did it on purpose! May n't I go up stairs with you? Can't I do something for you?"
               The door closed in her face, and she dared not follow. How bitterly she wept as she threw herself upon the sofa! How she hated herself for her anger and her impetuosity!
               "Oh, if I had only kept my temper," she sighed, "this would never have happened!"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           But riche he was of holy thought and werk,
                           He was also a lerned man, a clerk,
                           That Christes gospel trewely wolde preche.
                           His parishers devoutly wolde he teche.
                           Benigne he was, and wonder diligent,
                           And in adversite ful patient:
                        
                        
                           He waited after no pompe ne reverence,
                           Ne maked him no spiced conscience,
                           But Christes lore, and his apostles twelve,
                           He taught, but first he folwed it himselve.
                        
                     
                     CHAUCER.
                  
               
               THE rain ceased about four o'clock, and shortly after, well wrapped in a large shawl—for it was still damp—and with her feet protected by india-rubber shoes, Mrs. Allison sallied forth into the street.
               The parsonage was at the other end of the village, and a long walk it was; but thitherward she bent her steps, and did not once pause until she reached the little gate. The locust-trees that stood on either side of it, with their branches drooping until they were scarcely higher than her head, showered bright drops upon her as she passed through; and the woodbine clinging to the porch paid her a like compliment when she lingered for a moment beneath it, to replace a stray tendril that had by some means become separated from its fellows.
               "Good evening, Aunt Hetty," she said to the nice-looking, middle-aged woman, who answered her knock at the door. "Is Mr. Floyd at home?"
               "Why, Mrs. Allison, are you out this wet night? Walk in, walk in, and sit down by the fire. Your shawl is as wet as if it had been in the river. Come in. You must have a hot cup of tea."
               "Oh, no, Aunt Hetty, I don't need it; not by any means; I am not wet. It is only a few drops from the trees in the yard. But is Mr. Floyd in?"
               "Yes, ma'am, to be sure he is. If he should go out when it is as damp as it is now, he would n't be able to preach for you next Sunday. I was telling him only yesterday, that those trees must be trimmed. I try to keep things in just as good order as I can, Mrs. Allison, but you see one woman can not do every thing, and the minister don't get much time to attend to the trees."
               "Every thing is in very nice order, I am sure, Aunt Hetty. Can I see Mr. Floyd?"
               "I'll speak to him. He is here in his study."
               But ere she had time to do so, the door opened and the minister himself made his appearance.
               Mr. Floyd was nearly "threescore and ten," and a more venerable person can hardly be imagined. Yet his appearance gave few indications of debility or of failing powers, whether of mind or body. His clear blue eyes, if they had lost something of their youthful fire, were still undimmed, and beamed with a calm and thoughtful radiance. His form was still unbent, and his broad forehead, unfurrowed by stormy passions or corroding cares, had been left unscathed by Time. It was as smooth and tranquil as that of an infant. His hair, which had once been of a rich auburn hue, was now changed to the purest silver. Not one dark thread mingled with those locks of snowy whiteness that, still heavy and lustrous, were swept back from his calm brow. But, after all, the charm of his face lay in its expression, and that was indescribable. A powerful intellect and a strong will were, in his case, strangely blended with the gentleness, the humility, the holiness, the "heavenly repose" of the beloved disciple.
               
               He had known sorrow. She whose face had made the "star-light of his boyhood"—she whose companionship and love had made the earlier years of his manhood one long, bright dream of most exquisite happiness—she who had been the mother of his children and his own most tender and most faithful friend, had long slept in the church-yard that lay at a little distance from his own dwelling. Their children—they had but two—soon followed her to the grave, and his "house was left unto him desolate."
               At first these repeated bereavements bowed him to the very dust. True Christian though he was, he was yet but a man, and his fair wife and his little ones had indeed been the "light of his eyes." But at length the time came when he was enabled to say and to feel, in the midst of his anguish, that he was "alone, and yet not alone, for the Father was with him." Then he girded up his loins, took his pilgrim-staff once more, and went about his Master's business. He shrank from no duty, no responsibility. Oftentimes his voice trembled, and the color fled from his face as his eye in wandering about the church fell upon one vacant pew in the corner. But there were many sympathizing hearts there who understood that glance; and many a wordless prayer went up to the Father of mercies in behalf of him who was thus striving to prove how "sublime a thing it is to suffer and be strong."
               Mr. Floyd sought no new love. He felt in his very heart that the memory of the dead was more precious by far to him than the love of the living could ever more be, and he cherished it sacredly. A distant relative who was homeless and alone in the world gladly became his housekeeper, and for many years "Aunt Hetty," as she was familiarly called, had been nearly as well known in the parish as the minister himself.
               But we have allowed Mrs. Allison to stand upon the threshhold longer than is consistent with genuine hospitality; much longer, indeed, than her minister allowed it.
               "You are busy to-night, I perceive," she said, as, in accordance with Mr. Floyd's invitation, she entered the study, and glanced at the table, upon which several large volumes lay open, together with various manuscripts and writing implements. A large arm-chair was standing near it, from which its owner had evidently just arisen.
               "Not very. I have been thinking of my sermon for the coming Sabbath, but it is time for me to rest from my labors. I am glad to be interrupted. Is it well with you and with yours?" asked the old man, kindly, wheeling the arm-chair near the window, and resuming his seat.
               Mrs. Allison paused for a second ere she replied,
               "It is well with us, I believe," she said at length, "if you refer merely to the health of the body."
               "I referred both to that of the body and of the soul," was the reply; "yet, as a faithful pastor, it is the spiritual welfare of my flock that most deeply concerns me. You seem depressed this evening, my sister. Is there aught in which you peculiarly need my sympathy or my aid?"
               "I am always in need of them," said Mrs. Allison, a little petulantly. "I do not know why it is that I must have so much trouble. It seems to me that I have more than my share."
               "We are all apt to think so, Mrs. Allison. Trials, whether small or great, are rarely welcome. But our Father knows best," continued the aged minister, leaning back in his chair, and lifting his eyes heavenward, with a smile of angelic sweetness and submission, "and we have his assurance that, if rightly received, 'these light afflictions that are but for a moment, shall work out for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory.' Let us be patient, then, and this glorious promise shall be as an 'anchor to the soul, both sure and steadfast.' But what new trouble has visited you now? any tidings from Reuben?"
               "None. Neither do I expect any. I long since ceased to look for them. It is no matter. He chose to make his own bed, and now he may lie in it."
               "You should not despair of his return, Mrs. Allison. While there is life there is hope, and, after all, three years is not such a very long while. It is just that since he went away, is it not?"
               "Yes," replied Mrs. Allison, while her brow grew darker, "it is just three years since he rebelled against my authority and openly defied me. He was always self-willed, but never before had I failed to make him yield at last."
               "He was a bright boy, and if he was at heart a bad one, his face belied him greatly," said Mr. Floyd. "This is a sore trial, I know, Mrs. Allison. But keep up good courage. I believe your son will yet be restored to you."
               "I do not; neither do I wish it," was the stern reply. "He is nothing to me now. When I went up to his room that morning, and found the door locked as I had left it, but Reuben himself gone, I thought it was merely a boyish freak. I thought he had gone off merely to frighten me, and that he would be back in a few days, glad enough to submit to my authority and be governed by my will for the future. But days and weeks passed, and no traces of him could be discovered; and then I said that if he came back to me within one year I would receive him, and overlook the past; that if he did not, I would cast him from my heart forever; he should be to me as one dead. And I have kept my word. His name is never spoken beneath my roof. His sisters have almost forgotten that they had a brother. No one ever mentions him to me excepting yourself."
               "I shall continue to do so as long as I am your pastor, Mrs. Allison," said Mr. Floyd, gently, yet firmly, "although I am well aware that the subject is a disagreeable one. But these feelings are wrong, all wrong. Reuben was very young, a mere boy, and even if he had not been, we are bidden to forgive not only 'seven times' but 'seventy times seven.'"
               "Forgiveness has nothing to do with the case in question; I can forgive him, I do forgive him, But I consider that he has forfeited all claims upon my love and care. He left my roof voluntarily, and with no provocation. He gave up his mother, gave up his home, and now he is nothing to me. I have no son."
               "It is easy for you to say this," rejoined Mr. Floyd, after a thoughtful pause; "easy, perhaps, for you to feel it. But you can not thus sunder the ties that bind you to your own child. You can not thus free yourself from your responsibility as a parent. Reuben has been greatly to blame, I doubt not (although, as you know, I was absent most of the time for the year previous to his leaving home). Yet we are all fallible. You may have erred in judgment, you may have been indiscreet, you may at times have mistaken his motives, his feelings, and consequently have done him injustice."
               "Is he to be the judge of all this? Would you have had me govern my conduct according to his ideas of right and wrong? I have the greatest confidence in your judgment, Mr. Floyd, but I can not agree with you there."
               "You misinterpret my words," was the gentle reply. "I did not intend to censure the course you pursued with regard to Reuben, for in good truth, I know nothing of it. I merely suggested the idea that there might possibly be some blame upon both sides. Very rarely indeed can any one of us say of ourselves, 'I have been entirely in the right,' and of another, 'He has been entirely in the wrong.' But your daughters are still left to you; you are not childless," he continued, making an effort to turn the conversation into a different channel; for he saw by the deepening color upon Mrs. Allison's cheek that the one in which it then ran had been pursued far enough.
               "Yes, I have daughters," responded his guest; "but there is not a great deal of consolation in that thought. Daughters may be unmanageable and unruly as well as sons."
               "Certainly. We must admit that as a general truth, but it does not apply to your own case. You are inclined to look upon the dark side of things this evening, my sister. It is not well to anticipate trouble. The evil days come soon enough without our aid."
               "They have come already," said Mrs. Allison, "and for that very reason I sought you to-night. I do not know what to do with Bessie."
               "With Bessie? not know what to do with little Bessie? You surprise me beyond measure, Mrs. Allison. She has always been rather shy of me, but I have looked upon her as one of the most precious of my lambs. I have never seen any thing out of the way in her."
               "I should rejoice to hear you say this, Mr. Floyd, if I did not know that you say it merely because you have not watched her as closely as I have. I have nothing to complain of in Margaret. She is as correct in her deportment as I could desire her to be, and never gives me any uneasiness. But as for Bessie she is always doing something wrong, something that she ought not; always making me trouble. We must all have our 'thorn in the flesh,' I suppose," continued Mrs. Allison, with a long-drawn sigh, "and Bessie is mine."
               "But what does she do?" asked Mr. Floyd. "I can readily believe that she is a mischievous, thoughtless child; but surely she is not willfully guilty of any thing that can be called a crime?"
               "She has such a violent temper," was the reply, "and she does not make the slightest effort to control it. I am ashamed to tell you, Mr. Floyd, but she became so enraged at her sister to-day, merely because she would not allow her to burn up a piece of work of which she had grown tired, that she flew at her and literally knocked her down; struck or pushed her with such violence that, although Margaret is the largest, she was unable to stand under it, and fell to the floor."
               "Is it possible? I could not have believed this had it come from any other source. I have always thought Bessie to be gentle and affectionate."
               "She is affectionate enough, perhaps," continued the mother, "but one can make no impression upon her. She is not at all seriously disposed, and makes light of every thing. Why, not a great while ago, I shut her up in her own room as a punishment for breaking the Sabbath, and she spent the whole day in dancing and playing with a kitten! I can do nothing with her. And now, Mr. Floyd, I want you to try what you can do. She is very much afraid of you, and perhaps if you were to talk to her it would do her good."
               "Afraid of me, is she? I am very sorry for that; I did not know that any of my little ones were afraid of their pastor. If you wish it, I will seek some opportunity to converse with her, most certainly. But it must be brought about to all appearance accidentally—not as if I were taking occasion to preach her a sermon or read her a lecture. Otherwise it will do harm rather than good."
               Mrs. Allison shook her head and appeared slightly dissatisfied. A regular lecture on her evil ways was exactly what she thought Bessie needed, and what she wanted her to have. Indirect methods of accomplishing the desired sired end were not to her taste just now. But while she sat hesitating, hardly knowing what to say, Mr. Floyd went on.
               "I have been thinking for a week or two past that it was time I had the children—the Sabbath-school scholars I mean—here to take tea with me, as they did last year. Aunt Hetty must make her arrangements, and they shall come—let's see, this is Friday—they shall come next Wednesday. That will be the very time for me to say a word or two to Bessie, without any appearance of effort, without any thing that would look as if I supposed that she was not what we wish her to be, gay and happy, yet meek and mild, like that heavenly Child who was sent down to earth for our example. I can not think that she needs harsh or severe treatment. Surely she may be won rather than driven, to the arms of Divine love."
               "Mr. Floyd has some strange notions," thought Mrs. Allison, as she wended her way homeward. "I don't know but it's a mercy that his children were taken away, for if they had lived he would have spoiled them. He never will believe that people mean to do wrong—always has some excuse for them. But, for my part, I think there are as many sinners in the world as there are saints—quite as many; and I believe that's Bible doctrine too."
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I will no longer endure it, though yet
                           I know no wise remedy how to avoid it."
                        
                     
                     AS YOU LIKE IT.
                  
               
               WE left Bessie upon the sofa, weeping and longing, but not daring to follow her sister up stairs. Her heart was full of penitence for her fault, and love for Margaret, and no words were needed to deepen either. For half an hour she remained there alone, and then she could bear it no longer; she must make one more effort to obtain forgiveness.
               So she stole softly up stairs and listened at the door of their chamber. No sound reached her ear, and she stooped and attempted to peep through the key-hole. Nothing was visible, however, and again she listened; this time so intently that it seemed to her that if Margaret only breathed she must hear it. Then a wild fear crept to her heart, and sent a shuddering thrill throughout her frame. What if she were dead? She recollected that she had once heard Debby say that wounds upon the temples were often dangerous, and that the remark was enforced by the story of a man who had been killed by a very slight blow upon that spot.
               "Margaret certainly came in here," she thought, "for I heard her; and if she had gone out again I should have heard that too, for I was listening all the time. And now it is all so still! May be the cut began to bleed again, or that she has fainted, or something. May be she is dying, and then I am a murderer, even if I did not mean it."
               
               These thoughts passed through Bessie's mind as she stood trembling by the door; and if ever an earnest prayer went up to the great White Throne, it arose then from that childish heart—a prayer for her sister's life—a prayer for pardon, and for strength to resist evil.
               More than once she placed her hand upon the latch, and withdrew it again, under the influence of the strange dread that had taken possession of her—the fear that some terrible sight would meet her eyes if she opened the door. But, at last, she mustered all her courage and went in.
               Margaret sat by the window reading, with a small black patch upon her temple. She did not look up as Bessie entered, but with a quick and joyous revulsion of feeling, the latter sprang to her side and threw her arms around her neck.
               "Oh, Margaret, I am so glad that you are sitting here! I was afraid you were terribly hurt, and then I could never have forgiven myself. I can't now," she continued, in a lower and sadder tone, "until you forgive me. I did not mean to hurt you; indeed I did not."
               Margaret shrank back with a slight repelling motion, but Bessie's arms clung all the more closely to her neck, while tears rolled slowly down her cheeks.
               "Do speak to me, Margaret; just one word," she said, in the tenderest tones. "I know it was very wrong for me to get so angry, and I am as sorry as I can be. But I did not mean to push you down—I would n't have done that for any thing."
               If Margaret had been carved from wood or stone she could not have received Bessie's caresses, and tears, and entreaties any more coldly than she did. For a moment or two she sat perfectly still, while her sister's soft kisses fell upon her brow and cheek. Then she unclasped the twining arms, removed them from her neck, and took up her book again, still without speaking.
               Bessie was deeply grieved. But she had in a good degree become accustomed to repulses, and her heart was so bent upon a reconciliation with Margaret that she could not give up the matter thus easily.
               "You don't seem to forgive me, Margaret. Why won't you speak to me?" she asked, humbly.
               "Because I have n't the least bit of faith in you or in your promises," was the reply. "I never saw such a girl as you are. You are always going to do some great thing, and then it all ends in some such way as this. One minute you'll love a person to death, and the very next you'll knock them down. I would try to be a little more reasonable, if I were you."
               "I do try, Margaret."
               "I should think so. Only last week you were laying such famous plans, and making such great promises, and wanted me to join you in them. And it has ended just as I expected it would."
               "But it would not have ended so, Margaret," said Bessie, roused by her sister's sarcastic words to an attempt at defending herself, "if you had not plagued me so about my sampler. I was determined that I would not get angry—but I was so tired, and so—"
               "Cross," interrupted Margaret. "You can't find a more suitable word than that to use, if you try all day. And when you get one of your cross fits you can not bear any thing. I would not be such a piece of fire and tow as you are for all this world."
               The color flashed to Bessie's face, and she was on the point of making a bitter retort. But the memory of her recent tears and of her good resolutions restrained her, and she replied gently, though with a heavy sigh:
               "Well, I must try not to have any more cross fits. I do wish I could get that L. done before mother sees my sampler. Margaret," she added, hesitatingly, "Margaret, are you going to tell mother about it?"
               "About what?"
               "Why, about—how I acted. I wish you would not."
               "I shall have to, for she will ask me what I wear this patch for."
               "You can cover it up with your hair, if you have a mind," said Bessie.
               "No I can't; not so but what the corner will show."
               "But, Margaret, please don't say that I did it on purpose, for I did not. I was only trying to get away from you."
               "I shall tell just the plain truth about it," said Margaret, impatiently, as she turned her eyes upon her book again; "that is, if mother asks me. I shall tell her that you were going to burn up your sampler, and that I would not let you, and that you gave me a push or a blow that knocked me down. I shan't say more than that, and I don't see how I can say less without fibbing. That's just the way it was, is n't it?"
               "Yes," replied Bessie, slowly; "but yet I should not have thought of burning the sampler if you had n't made so much fun of it—and of me. It made me almost crazy."
               "I am not accountable for that. You must learn to bear a joke without flying into such a passion. That's the best advice I can give you. And if mother gives you a good scolding, may be it'll help you remember next time."
               Bessie turned away with a sad heart, and left the room to make one more desperate effort at shaping that terrible capital L. She was successful this time, and was just taking the last stitch when the dinner-bell rang.
               She dreaded making her appearance at the table, and delayed obeying the summons as long as she dared, even at the risk of being reproved as a loiterer. When she at length stole quietly to her seat, Margaret was just finishing her recital of their morning adventures.
               Bessie did not venture to lift her eyes, and her cheeks were crimson. It seemed to her that the blood would burst through, they burned so painfully. Her napkin remained unfolded, and her knife and fork untouched, although some one, she did not see who, placed a bountiful supply of food upon her plate.
               "Bessie!" said Mrs. Allison, causing the child, albeit she was listening for her mother's voice, to start as if struck by some unseen hand. "Bessie! why do you sit here in this manner? If you wish any dinner, eat it at once; if not, leave the table."
               Surprised, and for the moment relieved, Bessie ate her dinner in silence, wondering the while why the reprimand and punishment, for which she looked, were deferred.
               But her surprise deepened into the strongest astonishment when that day passed, and the next, without the slightest allusion to the subject that was uppermost in her own mind. Even Margaret seemed to have forgotten it, and when she came down to breakfast on Sunday morning, the black patch had disappeared. Bessie began to flatter herself that the storm had blown over, but as she was tying on her bonnet, previous to starting for Sunday-school, Mrs. Allison came into the room.
               "I hope you will try to behave decently to-day, if nothing more, Bessie," she said, approaching the toilet where Bessie's little Bible and hymn-book lay open; "and it may help you to do so if I tell you that Mr. Floyd is perfectly acquainted with your conduct. I have told him the whole story; he knows exactly how you behave, and he will doubtless be watching you. So, if you have the slightest regard for his good opinion, you had better be upon your guard."
               
               It was a very bright little face that turned toward Mrs. Allison when she commenced speaking; but, as she went on, the brightness faded, and the smiles were lost in tears. Bessie had just contrived to exclaim:
               "Why, mother!" in most piteous accents, when her sobs choked her voice, and she could say no more.
               "Yes, I have told him all about it," continued Mrs. Allison; "how wild and heedless you are—how passionate and willful, and how you struck Margaret, and all. And now, if you wish to retrieve your character, it is necessary for you to turn over a new leaf, and try to be a better girl."
               Bessie said not a word, but as her mother left the room she sank upon the floor in a paroxysm of distress. Margaret was at the opposite window, fastening her glove.
               "Get up, Bessie!" said she, as she turned and saw her sister's position. "Your frock won't be fit to be seen; it's all dust now, and do but look at your eyes. Come, it's time we were off—there's the bell."
               "Oh, Margaret, I can't go!" sobbed Bessie. "What will Mr. Floyd think of me? I never want to see him again—never! never!"
               "Well, you'll have to, most likely; so you may as well come one time as another. Come, we shall be late."
               Bessie rose slowly from the floor, and tried to shake the creases from her crumpled dress.
               "Oh, it was too bad for mother to tell Mr. Floyd!" she cried, dropping her skirt, and covering her face again. "What made her do it? I would rather she would have whipped me till I could n't stand."
               "Pshaw! no you would n't either. But if you don't want people to know you do a thing, all I can say is, you must n't do it. If you had not acted so, mother would have had nothing to tell Mr. Floyd, that is very certain. Come!"
               Bessie walked to Sunday-school quietly enough that morning. She thought she should never be inclined even to smile again, much less to go dancing along after her usual fashion. There were traces of tears yet on her cheek, as she took her place in her class, but no remarks were made, and she hoped they were not observed. She knew her lesson perfectly, as she generally did, for she loved the Sunday-school, and loved her teacher. Long before the recitation was over, her attention was so absorbed in that, and in Miss Haywood's explanations, that her troubles were nearly forgotten. But as she ascended the stairs that led from the basement to the body of the church, another thought struck her, what if she should meet Mr. Floyd in the porch, what if he should speak to her?
               And sure enough there he was, just entering the door as she reached the head of the stairs. The color rushed to her brow, and her heart beat so violently that she could hardly breathe. The other scholars were, most of them, in advance of her, so that she could not escape, and Mr. Floyd, with his calm brow, and a smile that was in itself a benediction, was approaching the group. She did not see the smile. She only saw the venerable, majestic form that she had from her very babyhood regarded as the incarnation of all that was most worthy of reverential love—as the embodiment of whatever was wisest, and holiest, and best.
               Mrs. Allison had told Mr. Floyd that Bessie was afraid of him. It was not so. But she regarded him with such absolute veneration that the usual flow of her spirits was checked in his presence, and she was always quieter and more subdued than was her wont. This her mother called fear.
               And now to think that he had heard such a report of her! that he believed, as she did not doubt, that she was a bad, passionate, wicked girl! It was almost more than poor Bessie could bear, and the hot tears crowded to her eyes again, until she was nearly blinded. To escape him was the acme of her wishes just then, and pressing forward to the infinite danger of skirts, and sleeves, and ribbons, she glided under Miss Haywood's arm, and entered the church in advance of the others, and with a most hurried step.
               Mr. Floyd's eye followed her in the maneuver, but he little dreamed of the panic that gave rise to it. He thought it owed its origin to some sudden freak of Bessie's fancy, some ebullition of childish gayety, and his smile grew none the less genial and kindly as he watched her.
               Before Monday night every little girl belonging to the Sunday-school knew that they were to make their minister a visit on Wednesday, and in every breast but one the news awakened the most enthusiastic joy. Aunt Hetty was a great favorite with the children. She was so gentle and motherly, and took such kind care of them all, and taught them so many new games, and knew so many stories for the amusement of the younger ones. Moreover she was almost sure to have a pair of warm stockings, or a nice hood, or a flannel petticoat for the two little girls whose parents died so long ago, and who had been "bound out" by the town. Oh, there was nobody like Aunt Hetty! And as for Mr. Floyd, and Mr. Floyd's library, and his collection of engravings, and his cabinet of shells, and his strange minerals, all of which they might examine to their heart's content, if they would only be careful to do no mischief—words could do no sort of justice to him or to them. But one thing was certain, there was no place in the whole village where they were so delighted to meet as at the parsonage.
               This time they were more overjoyed than ever, for they were to have an additional pleasure. Some good lady suggested that Aunt Hetty ought not to have all the trouble of preparing refreshment for so many little folks; so it was arranged that they should make a kind of pic-nic party, and each one contribute something toward furnishing the table. There were busy little heads and hands in Lanmere about those days, for every child thought she was in dutybound to take an active part in the preparation of the cakes and creams and sandwiches which were being made under her mother's direction. Never were eggs more unmercifully beaten, never was cream more thoroughly whipped.
               Nowhere were the preparations more vigorously carried on than at Mrs. Allison's. Margaret flew about with unwonted zeal, studying cook-books, and comparing recipes, until one would have supposed that the charge of the whole affair rested upon her shoulders.
               "Come, Bessie," she said, as she bustled through the sitting-room on her way to the kitchen. "Come, mother says I may make the sponge-cake, and I want you to help beat the eggs."
               "You'll spoil it if you try," replied Bessie; "who's going to weigh the sugar and things?"
               "I am."
               "You? with the steelyards?"
               "No, with these new scales. It's just as easy. Mother showed me, last night. Come!"
               "I'll come and help," said Bessie; "but I am not going to Mr. Floyd's."
               "You are not?"
               "No."
               "I rather guess you will," said Margaret; "at any rate you'd better make your share of the cake. Why are you not going?"
               "Because I don't want to."
               "But why not?"
               Bessie shook her head without speaking, and taking down the basket of eggs, proceeded to count out the requisite number.
               "I know why you say you are not going," remarked Margaret, as she turned the sugar from the scales into a pan; "it's just on account of what mother told Mr. Floyd. Is n't it, now?" she continued, after a pause, as Bessie did not seem inclined to answer.
               "Well, what if it is?" said Bessie.
               "Why, you'll just have to go, that's all. Mother won't let you stay at home, now, you see if she does."
               Margaret was perfectly correct in her opinion. Bessie begged and plead that she might be allowed to absent herself from the party, but to no purpose.
               "Do please let me stay at home, mother," she entreated, amid her tears, "Mr. Floyd won't miss me among so many; and if he does he won't care. He would rather have me stay away than not."
               "That's neither here nor there," was the reply. "You have been invited and you must go. I do not wonder that you are mortified, and I rejoice at it, as an evidence that you are not quite insensible to shame. I trust it will be a lesson that you will remember your whole life-time."
               Wednesday came—as bright and fair a day as the happiest child in Lanmere could have desired. But it came all too soon for Bessie. Even after she was dressed, and had already reached the door where Margaret was impatiently waiting for her, she ran back to implore permission to remain where she was.
               It was to no purpose. Mrs. Allison was inexorable, and the two girls walked down the street, side by side, but in moods of thought and feeling that were far apart. At length Margaret noticed that Bessie's tears were flowing silently.
               "What is the matter?" she asked, stopping short. "You do not mean to wear such a looking face as this all the afternoon, I hope?"
               "I don't care how my face looks, not one bit," replied Bessie. "I'd just as lief it would look one way as another. It won't make any difference as to what Mr. Floyd will think of me."
               "Well, I would n't make any more fuss about it, as long as you can not help yourself. I told you you would have to come, in the very first of it; but you would not believe me."
               "But I don't see why it is. I thought mother would be glad to have me stay at home, for she always says she's afraid to trust me out of her sight. And when she knew how I felt about it, I don't see what made her say I must come."
               "I know a thing or two," said Margaret, with a wise shake of the head.
               "Do you? Oh, is it any thing about me? Do tell me, Margaret!"
               "I didn't say it was, did I? There are the Pairce girls with a great basket. Wonder what they've got!"
               "But, Margaret! What is it you know? You must tell me!" exclaimed Bessie, trembling with an undefined fear that owed its birth to Margaret's manner rather than her words.
               "Must is a great word, particularly when you use it. I know a great many things—I know that two and two make four. I know the sun rose this morning, and that it will set to-night, if the world don't come to an end before that time. I know——"
               "Oh, don't talk so, Margaret! that is not what I mean, and you know it well enough. You spoke as if—as if—"
               Here Bessie hesitated, and came to a dead stop.
               "As if—what? That last is a very intelligent sentence as it stands now."
               "You spoke just as if you knew something about me, or about mother's making me go to Mr. Floyd's, or something else about my affairs. You ought to tell me!"
               
               "No, I ought not, for I promised that I would not,"
               "Oh, Margaret, Margaret! how could you?" sobbed Bessie. "You should not have said what you did, if you can't tell me more. It was too bad! What will become of me?" and dropping the basket that she was helping her sister carry, she covered her face with her hands and wept more bitterly than ever.
               "Bessie, Bessie, don't act so! Put down your hands! Every body in the street will be staring at you," whispered Margaret, somewhat alarmed at the effect her words had produced—words uttered, to do her justice, more by way of showing that she knew something of which her sister was ignorant, than from any wish to hurt her feelings. "It is not much of any thing—it's nothing of any consequence. Come, do not cry any more."
               They were nearly at the gate of the parsonage, and Bessie, with a very great effort, choked back her tears, composed her features, and obtained some little control over her voice. But she was in no mood for joining the gay groups that were scattered about the yard, or chatting in the low, vine-wreathed porch, or sitting quietly, but no less happily in the parlor or library. She felt, rather than saw, that Mr. Floyd was in the hall as she entered. She knew that he spoke to her, but his voice was only as the "sounding brass or tinkling cymbal"—it reached her ear, but conveyed no impression to her mind. Aunt Hetty took their basket, with a few words of kindly welcome, and then they went up stairs to lay aside their bonnets.
               Presently Margaret went down, leaving Bessie to follow at her leisure. But the solitude of the chamber was far more congenial to her feelings than the chastened merriment below—chastened, for the wildest of the light-hearted band stood a little in awe of the parsonage and the minister. For a long time—she knew not how long— she sat there with her face buried in her hands, and her hands resting upon her knees.
               At length the sound of her own name spoken by a well known voice, seemingly just outside the door of the room where she was sitting, made her heart leap to her throat, and she listened as if her life were at stake.
               "Aunt Hetty," said Mr. Floyd, for he had long since adopted the use of the familiar appellative by which the good lady was known in the village; "Aunt Hetty, have you seen any thing of Bessie Allison? I must find her. I told her mother that—"
               Here the voice became inaudible, and very soon Bessie heard both Aunt Hetty and Mr. Floyd go down stairs. There was a short pause, and then the words, "Where's Bessie Allison? Where's Bessie Allison?" passed from one lip to another.
               Bessie was half maddened by the sound. She did not stop to ask herself what she dreaded. But Mr. Floyd's remark, taken in connection with what Margaret had said, and with previous occurrences, made her quite beside herself. She was sure some disgrace—something terrible was in store for her, and how should she escape it?
               Quick as thought she snatched her bonnet and darted through the chambers to the back stair-case. There she paused for an instant. The children were all in the front part of the house, but who might she not meet at the back door?
               There was little time to answer that question, for just then she heard the sound of pattering footsteps in the front hall, and voices nearer than before, calling "Bessie, Bessie, where are you?"
               She hesitated no longer, but sprang down the back stairs, bounded out at the little side door, which was fortunately open, and flew through the lane gate, with "Bessie! Bessie!" still ringing in her ears.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "What, out of hearing? gone? no sound, no word?
                           Alack, where are you? speak, an' if you hear."
                        
                     
                     MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.
                  
               
               FOR full half an hour the young party at Mr. Floyd's continued to search for Bessie. In high glee they ransacked the house (every part of which was thrown open to them on such occasions) from garret to cellar; peeping into cupboards and closets; looking under beds and behind doors; lifting the covers of trunks and chests; in fact, prosecuting their merry search wherever there was the slightest possibility of finding her, as well as in many a place where even the most active imagination could scarcely conceive the remotest chance of discovering the object of their quest.
               "Oh, pshaw, Annie!" laughed one of the gay band, "you don't think she's in that china closet? It's so narrow that she could not squeeze herself into it, and, besides, the door is locked on the outside. And there! I'll give it up if Mary Lee is not looking in Aunt Hetty's work-basket!"
               "You need not laugh," retorted the other; "I saw you move a water-pail and look behind it, not five minutes ago. You are not a bit wiser than the rest of us. But where can the girl be?" And away they bounded to pursue their arduous labors elsewhere.
               "Oh! don't look there—don't open that!" cried little Alice May, the youngest child present, with a pale cheek and a trembling voice, as some of her companions were about to raise the cover of a great chest in the garret; "I can't bear to have you!"
               "Why not?" asked one of them, with her hand upon the lid.
               "I don't know, hardly," was the response, while the little speaker threw an anxious glance upon the time-worn rafters and the accumulated rubbish of years, scarcely visible in the dim, uncertain light; "I don't know, hardly; but it seems just like 'The Mistletoe Bough' that sister sings."
               "What of that? I don't know what you mean."
               "I do," interrupted another; "but I can't think just now what the verses are. It's a song about a lady who got lost, and an old chest, and I don't know what all. How is it, Alice?"
               "I can not say all the verses," replied Alice, "but one of them begins in this way: 
                     
                        "'At length an oak chest, that had long been hid,
                        Was found in the castle; they raised the lid—
                        A skeleton form lay moldering there.'"
                     
                  
               
               "Oh, fudge!" exclaimed the girl whose hand was upon the cover of the chest; "what a little goose you are? Do you suppose we are going to find Bessie's skeleton, when she has not been gone twenty minutes? Before I would be scared at a shadow, or a couple of lines of poetry! You look just like ghosts, every one of you. I should think you'd be ashamed!"
               But in spite of her valor the lid remained unlifted, and the brave speaker, as well as her companions, presently hurried down stairs, without venturing upon any further explorations.
               The yards and garden were of course thoroughly searched, but at length the scattered members of the party all met in the library, and reported Bessie as still missing. Mr. Floyd looked somewhat troubled, and turned toward Margaret, who, though she had been one of the foremost of the band of hunters, had manifested but little curiosity, and no uneasiness.
               "Where can that little sister of yours have gone, Margaret?" he asked; "what can she have done with herself?"
               "I presume she has gone home, sir," was the reply; "she did not want to come in the first place, but mother made her."
               "Not want to come! not want to come!" murmured one and another; "well, that is queer!"
               Mr. Floyd said nothing more on the subject until the children had dispersed to their several sports again; he, meanwhile, detaining Margaret by placing his hand upon her arm.
               "Was Bessie sick?" he then inquired. "Was that the reason she was unwilling to come?"
               "No, sir, she was well enough; but she has such strange freaks sometimes. She said she did not want to come here to see you, sir."
               Margaret paused for a while, but seeing that Mr. Floyd had apparently nothing further to say to her, she quietly left the room and rejoined her companions.
               The old man remained in deep thought for several minutes. During the long years that he had lived in Lanmere, he had become identified with his people. He had never considered that his work was done and his duty discharged by the preaching of two, or even three sermons on Sunday, and he felt a personal interest in the welfare and happiness of even the youngest members of his flock. This may, perhaps, account for the fact that he could not at once dismiss Bessie from his mind.
               "It is very strange," he thought. "The child evidently avoids and dislikes me. How can I teach her to regard me differently?"
               At an early hour—so early that there was no danger that darkness would overtake even the little girl who had the greatest distance to go—the children were dismissed "with a blessing and a prayer." Margaret loitered behind, talking with some of the girls that were near her own age, until it was almost dark.
               "Where's Bessie?" asked Mrs. Allison, as her eldest daughter was laying off her bonnet; "did Mr. Floyd keep her?"
               "Bessie! is n't she here?" exclaimed Margaret.
               "Here? No. How should she be here? You came straight home, did you not?"
               "Yes, mother. But I have not seen Bessie since we got to Mr. Floyd's. She disappeared soon after that, and although we looked all over the house, we could not find her. I supposed she had gone home."
               "She has not been any where near here, and she must be somewhere about Mr. Floyd's place; skulking away to keep out of his sight, I presume. I do not know what possesses the child," she added; "it seems as if she were bewitched. Now who is going clear to the parsonage after her? It is too late for her to come home alone; I am too tired to go, and too busy also, and you can not go back again."
               "Why don't you send Debby?" asked Margaret.
               "So I can," was the reply; "she's got her work done, and can go as well as not. I did not think of her. Debby," she continued, stepping to the kitchen door, "put on your bonnet and go over to Mr. Floyd's after Bessie. She must be somewhere there, as she has not been home. I should not be surprised if you should meet her. Hurry, for it's almost dark."
               Debby had lived with Mrs. Allison many years; longer than her own daughters, in fact, for she became an inmate of the family previous to Margaret's birth. By this time she had become quite a privileged character, and considered that she had a right to express an opinion upon nearly all questions of domestic policy. It can not be denied that her bluntness sometimes bore a striking resemblance to impertinence, and that those who were ignorant of her peculiarities, would have been justified in pronouncing her absolutely saucy. But she did not intend to be. Debby had heard the Declaration of Independence read every Fourth of July since she was a child, and its doctrines had become incorporated with her very nature. She was a thorough-going democrat, and conscientiously believed herself to be quite as good as Mrs. Allison, Aunt Hetty, or any body else.
               Far be it from us to declare the contrary.
               Yet in spite of all this, so faithful was she, so capable of managing all matters appertaining to her own department, so devoted to the best interests of her employer—she would have scorned to say mistress—so devoted to the spot that she had long called home, so attached to "our folks," particularly to the children, that Mrs. Allison, although she declared at least once a month that she could not and would not have Debby in the house another day, always contrived, when the time of trial came, to make some sort of a compromise between her dignity and her comfort, and Debby remained, as invaluable and as independent as ever.
               She was not very well pleased with the idea of walking to the parsonage this evening, after a hard day's work, and expressed herself accordingly.
               "Why didn't Bessie come with you, Margaret?" she asked. "I should ha' thought you might ha' seen to her, and brung her along. Now I s'pose I've got to chase 'way over there, when I'm just ready to drop, and ought to be a-bed. This frock ain't fit for a Christian to wear neither, and I hain't had a mite o' time to change it this blessed day. I've just been on my feet the whole durin' time sence I got up this morning."
               While uttering this tirade, however, Debby had donned her sun-bonnet and a large shawl, and was half way to the gate. Her independence vented itself in words, and she was never known to refuse to do as she was told. Her tongue operated as a safety-valve, and in five minutes after some seemingly terrible ebullition, she would go about her work as serenely and happily as ever.
               Great was the consternation of Mr. Floyd and Aunt Hetty when they learned that Bessie was not at her mother's; and the house and yards were subjected to another thorough search.
               "That are well-curb looks kind o' pokerish," said Debby, glancing toward it. "It's so dreadful low that a young one might fall in just as easy as nothing."
               "Yes," replied Aunt Hetty; "but it has a tight cover, and I closed it with my own hands before the children came. Is any body positively certain that Bessie came here this afternoon?"
               "Yes," said Mr. Floyd; "I saw her myself—spoke with her when she came in. But what's going to be done? The child must be found."
               They were standing upon the piazza, and as Mr. Floyd was speaking a man with an ax on his shoulder and some other tools in his hand, came briskly up the road. Seeing the minister, he smiled, bowed, and finally, placing his ax against the fence, he leaned over the gate and commenced a conversation.
               "Fine evening, Mr. Floyd. We don't often have such at this time o' year."
               "Not often. Your family are all well, I hope, John?"
               "Middlin', thankye, middlin'. The old woman's had a touch of the rheumatiz; but she's getting smart again. My little girl was here this afternoon, wasn't she, sir?"
               
               "Yes. Almost all of my little ones were here."
               "My Jane was tickled near about to death at the idea o' coming. She reckons a sight on comin' to see the minister and Aunt Hetty."
               The man was an acquaintance of Debby's, and she bethought herself of asking him if he had seen or heard any thing of Bessie.
               "Of your Bessie? not as I know on. Where is she?" he asked, in return.
               "Why, you see she came here this arternoon with the rest of the children; and all to once she was missing, and we hain't none of us seen her sence," said Debby.
               "Hain't she bin home?"
               "No. If she had, I should n't be here axing after her."
               "Wall, now I think on't," said the man, "I kind o' remember seein' a little girl about as big as she is, going along by the high bank toward the east creek. What colored frock did Bessie have on?"
               "Pink," said Debby, "and a little plaid shawl."
               "I don't remember nothin' about the shawl," said the man, "but the pink frock's all right. I guess't was her that I seen," and bowing again, he took up his tools and went on.
               "But what could she ha' been about down there? Where could she ha' been going?" asked Debby.
               "Has she no acquaintances there?" inquired Mr. Floyd. "Many of her schoolmates attend the other church, and as I was obliged to confine myself to our Sabbath-school, of course they were not here."
               "That's it, I'll bet," cried Debby, hastily folding her shawl about her spare figure; "and I'll go right straight down. She thinks a mighty sight of the Smith girls, and I shouldn't wonder but she's there."
               "Wait a minute, and I'll go with you, Debby," said Mr. Floyd, turning to get his hat and cane. "I feel anxious about the child, and perhaps I can be of some service."
               "I ax your pardon, Mr. Floyd," remarked Debby, respectfully, "but I shan't be five minutes a-going, and it ain't no ways likely but what she's there, to some o' them houses. And I know by your looks, to say nothing of Aunt Hetty's, that it ain't fitting for you to be out."
               "Debby's right, Mr. Floyd," said Aunt Hetty, in a low voice; "you ought not to go. It would be running a great risk."
               "I ain't a bit afraid," continued Debby; "every body knows me, and I know every body. I'd just as lief go alone as not. 'T won't take me two minutes. Good-day to ye all."
               "Good evening, then, Debby. I feel very sure you will find Bessie at the bank. If you do not, you must send us word."
               "I will, sir." And with that she departed.
               It was quite dark by this time; but Debby, as she herself declared, feared neither man nor spirit, and pressed on bravely until she reached the high bank. There also she was doomed to disappointment. Neither Bessie nor any other girl with a pink frock had been seen in that region during the afternoon.
               What was to be done next? This was an important question, and one that Debby was utterly unable to answer.
               "I'd better go home," said she, thoughtfully, "and tell Mis' Allison. I'm sure I don't know what to do. I'm in a regular quandary."
               Debby was a rapid walker, but more than an hour elapsed from the time she left Mr. Floyd's before she reached home, with the intelligence that her mission had been entirely unsuccessful.
               "This is a pretty piece of business, I must say," said Mrs. Allison. "But it's exactly like Bessie. She did not want to go to Mr. Floyd's, and I have no doubt that she slipped out when no one saw her, and that she has gone somewhere else to make a visit. Either she is afraid to come home, or she wants to frighten us all."
               "But, Mis' Allison, seems to me she'd be more afraid not to come home, for she'd know't would only be making bad matters worse; just jumping out of the frying-pan into the fire."
               "She would not think as far as that. I am so mortified, Margaret! Bessie has no sense of propriety. Very likely half the folks in the village know by this time that one of my daughters is missing, and that I don't know where she is. She would come pretty quick if I could reach her."
               Margaret laughed, but Debby looked uneasy, and Mrs. Allison herself started at every sound.
               Pretty soon there was a knock at the door. Mrs. Allison answered the summons herself. A ragged, dirty little urchin stood there, with the crown of a straw hat on his head. The brim was minus.
               "What do you want?" she asked, as the boy looked stupidly at his toes, and made no attempt to do his errand.
               "Ma'rm said I'd oughter come and tell you as how I seen a gal running across the meader this arternoon."
               "Across what meadow?"
               "The big one over by the woods," and before she could ask another question he darted across the yard, leaped the fence, and was out of sight.
               "That can not be," said Mrs. Allison, when she returned to the parlor; "she couldn't have lost herself in those woods. She knows them perfectly."
               "Yes, mother," replied Margaret; "and, besides, she's always afraid in the woods, and will not go far even when I am with her. She wouldn't have gone there at all."
               "I ain't so sure about that," said Debby; "'T ain't no ways sartin that she's there, and 't ain't no ways sartin that she ain't. Now, Mrs. Allison, hadn't I better go down street and rout out the men, and have them woods searched? 'Twouldn't take very long, no how."
               For a few moments Mrs. Allison hesitated between pride and anxiety. At length she said,
               "No! I have no idea that she is there. She has gone somewhere to stay all night, and will be back in the morning. There will be plenty of remarks made as it is, and I don't want her name and mine in every body's mouth, as they would be if the town was aroused to search for her. If I really thought she was in the woods it would be another thing. But she couldn't have got lost there. It is out of the question. I am not at all concerned about her; and I don't want every body in Christendom to know that she ran away from Mr. Floyd's."
               "But if she is in them woods," persisted Debby, "she'll catch her death-cold. To be sure there ain't no bears nor rattlesnakes—"
               "I tell you she is not there," said Mrs. Allison, angrily. "Margaret, go to bed. Debby, we will have poached eggs and toast for breakfast. Be sure that the coffee is clear."
               Debby started for the kitchen, but presently returned, and put her head into the sitting-room again.
               "But you see, Mrs. Allison," said she, "I told Mr. Floyd that if Bessie wasn't to home when I got here, I'd send him word. What's going to be done about it?"
               "That is your look out, not mine. You should not have made such a promise, for you knew well enough that Tom would not be back to-night. You can not send word; it is impossible."
               
               Mrs. Allison proceeded to lock the door, and then threw herself into her favorite rocking-chair. She was not nearly as much at her ease as she professed to be, and at every moan of the wind she shivered and turned pale. After awhile, she took the lamp and retreated to her own bedroom.
               "I would not have made Bessie go to Mr. Floyd's if I had dreamed of this," she said, "but it can not be helped now. There was enough said when Reuben ran away; and if there is any noise made about this affair it will just set people to talking again. The child will be back in the morning, safe and sound, I'll warrant."
               So saying she arrayed herself for her couch, and threw herself upon it. Whether sleep visited her eyelids, we will leave for mothers to decide.
               "I can't send word to Mr. Floyd, sure enough," soliloquized Debby, as she returned to the kitchen, "not without calling on some of the neighbors. But I'll be bumped if I can't carry it, and I will too. When I make a promise to a minister, I kinder calkerlate to keep it. So good evening, Mrs. Allison—pleasant dreams to ye," she added, nodding her head in the direction of the sitting-room door, while she put on her bonnet and shawl again, and then stole quietly out through the woodshed.
               Mr. Floyd and Aunt Hetty were both up when she reached the parsonage, and in a very few words she communicated to them the state of the case.
               "The woods must be searched," said the former, springing to his feet with all the energy of his younger days; "I can not sleep until I know that the child is safe. She may be there alone and in darkness, and it must be looked to at once. Debby, who is the best hand to take charge of the business?"
               "Jim Anderson, sir," she replied, after a moment's reflection flection. "He knows them woods like a book, every foot of 'em, and he lives handy—close by here too."
               "I will go there with you immediately. Aunt Hetty, where are my overshoes and my comforter?"
               The good old lady raised no objections this time, and in less than two minutes they were on their way to Jim Anderson's.
               Debby was seldom at a loss for words, but now there was evidently something upon her mind, and she walked in perfect silence by Mr. Floyd's side, until they had reached the small brown house for which they were bound.
               "Mr. Floyd," said she, halting on the door-step, "may be it would be as well not to let on that Mrs. Allison don't know what we 're up to. Folks might think strange on't."
               "You are perfectly right, Debby," was the reply; "we will keep our own counsel."
               In half an hour from that time twenty men with torches and lanterns were scouring the woods in all directions.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Is this the way I was going?
                           "Whither, O brooklet, say!
                           Thou hast, with thy soft murmur,
                           Murmured my senses away.
                        
                     
                     LONGFELLOW.
                  
               
               THE boy who "seen a gal run across the meader," labored under no defect of vision. A girl did cross it, as if the fates were at her heels, and that girl was Bessie. Her brain was in a perfect tumult when she left the parsonage, and when that began to subside, every thought and feeling was lost in one overpowering wish to avoid Mr. Floyd, to escape his presence. Even the dread of her mother's displeasure died away, or rather it was entirely forgotten; and it seemed to her as she plunged further and further into the woods, that she would rather lie down there and die, than meet his stern, upbraiding glance—for such she had no doubt it would be—or hear his words of displeasure and reproof.
               "Oh, how could mother tell him such stories about me! how could she!" she said to herself as she pressed onward. "And now he thinks I'm the worst girl in the world, I know he does! He thinks that I don't want to be good, and that I don't try. Every body thinks so," she added, sinking from pure weariness upon a bed of leaves and moss that lay at the foot of an old oak tree, "mother, and Margaret, and all! There's no use in my trying any more. It does n't do any good, and nobody will believe that I do try!"
               How long meditations of this kind lasted, and how long she sat there under the tree, Bessie had no means of ascertaining. Sleep, the deep sleep of exhaustion and excitement stole over her ere she was aware of it, binding her senses one by one; and when she again became cognizant of their operations darkness and gloom were gathering within the dim aisles of the forest, and great, dusky shadows crept stealthily about her.
               Springing hastily to her feet, she pressed her hand to her forehead and gazed around with a bewildered air. She had never been so far into the woods before; and now, startled and confused as she was, she could not tell which way she had come. To the right, to the left, before her and behind her she looked; but to her untaught eyes there was no difference in the aspect of things. The sun was down, and the gray sky overhead, of which she caught occasional glimpses, said nothing more than did the silent trees around her. She shivered with the cold, and, drawing her light shawl more closely about her shoulders, darted at random down a narrow path that she hoped would lead her in the right direction. At all events it led somewhere, and any thing was better than sitting there.
               She had gone but a few rods, however, when the tinkling, musical sound of running water met her ear; and just in advance of her was a little brook, now gliding now dashing along, with an air of most perfect unconcern. Bessie could not follow its example. Covering her face with her hands, she burst into tears.
               "Oh, I am all wrong!" she exclaimed, after a minute, "all wrong! I never saw this brook before, and it's growing darker all the time. I shall have to stay here in the woods all night. Oh! what shall I do!"
               But soon she took courage and went on again, following the course of the brook. It was so dark that she could scarcely see, and her way was impeded at times by fallen trees and underbrush. Fear gave her strength, however, and after a weary tramp, she was rewarded for her perseverance by reaching the open country.
               Eagerly she looked around her as she emerged from the dense shadows. But here a new difficulty presented itself. She could not tell where she was; every thing was strange and new to her, and in order to reach the road she must climb an immensely high board fence. Several times she attempted it, but she was faint and tired, her knees trembled and refused to support her weight, and her head swam strangely.
               She did not weep now. A cold shiver ran over her, and she slowly turned toward the woods again.
               "I must go and lie down under a tree," she thought. "I am very sick, may be I shall die here, all alone by myself."
               The stars were beginning to appear; twilight was deepening into night. Bessie curled herself up at the foot of a tree and laid her head on the ground. It was burning with a feverish heat, and the touch of the cool, moist earth was most grateful; but that death-like faintness increased rather than diminished, and she was fast losing all consciousness when an inspiriting shout and the tinkle of a cow-bell fell upon her ear.
               Raising herself on one elbow, she peered into the darkness, and tried to discover whence the sound came. She could see nothing at first, but finally the dim outlines of a cow, and a man, or boy, driving it became visible. Bessie's heart beat quickly, and she shouted,
               "Halloo! halloo!" as loudly as she could—which, be it understood, is not saying a great deal.
               She was on her feet by this time; still struggling with her faintness, however, and was making her way toward the fence as fast as she was able.
               "Halloo!" responded a young, cheerful voice, "who's here, and what's wanting?"
               "It's me," said Bessie, "and I want to go home."
               "Me?" said the stranger. "Who is me? and how in this world do you happen to be here at this time of night? Why, it's a little girl no bigger than Ellen," he continued, leaping over the fence and approaching her. "Where is your home?"
               "Down in the village."
               "What—Lanmere?"
               "Yes," she said, inarticulately.
               "Mercy! it's three miles from here, round by the road; and you can't go 'cross lots, nor through the woods to-night."
               As he spoke his little companion reeled, and the boy—he was apparently about fourteen—sprang forward and caught her in his arms just in season to prevent her from falling. Her bonnet fell off as she did so, and he saw by the faint light that her face was perfectly white. She had fainted, partly from fatigue, partly from want of food, for she had no appetite for her dinner, and partly from alarm and anxiety.
               William Wentworth was very much frightened, but he hesitated only a moment. Laying Bessie gently on the grass, he hastily let down some bars at a little distance, that the child had failed to notice. Then lifting her, not without considerable difficulty, he bore her out into the road.
               "Mother'll bring her to soon enough, if I can only get her to the house," said he to himself. "Poor little thing! I suppose she's tired to death, tramping in the woods."
               It was not necessary for him to carry her far. There was a turn in the road, a rod or two off, and just beyond it was Mr. Wentworth's house. The gate stood open, and as he entered it he called loudly,
               "Mother, mother, open the door for me!"
               
               It was scarcely a second before a middle-aged woman, pale and delicate in her appearance, stood in the door-way.
               "Why, William, what have you got there?" she exclaimed.
               He made no reply, but pressing past her, laid his insensible burden on a bed that stood in one corner of the kitchen, and then sank on a chair himself, panting for breath. Mrs. Wentworth waited for no explanations. In a moment she was chafing Bessie's hands, and loosening her dress.
               "Ellen, bring me the camphor-bottle, quick!" she said to a little girl, who was apparently too much alarmed to approach the bed. "Willie, get some water!"
               There was none in the house, and Willie sprang to the "sink," caught the water-pail, and dashed out of the back door, to fetch some from the spring.
               "There is not a single drop, mother," said Ellen; "the bottle is empty."
               Mrs. Wentworth still continued the rubbing, uttering the while ejaculations of pity and surprise. But there were no signs of returning consciousness on the part of her patient. In the meanwhile Willie came in with the water, and Ellen's curiosity, or sympathy, so far triumphed over her fear that she ventured to come to her mother's assistance.
               "Why, mother!" she cried, as soon as she had cast one glance upon the pale face of their unexpected guest, "it's little Bessie Allison, 'way from Lanmere! Is she dead?" she added fearfully.
               "No, dear, I hope not. Willie, stir up the fire, and have some water heating. Ellen, isn't there a bit of camphor left?"
               "No, ma'am, not any. What shall we do? She looks so white that it 'most scares me!" said Ellen, trembling.
               "If I only had some spirits, brandy, or any thing!" sighed Mrs. Wentworth.
               "I guess there's some rum down cellar," said William; "would that do?"
               "Yes, it would answer to rub her with. Run and see."
               William knew very well that there was some there, and he presently returned with a small jug.
               "I don't know what father'll say," said he; "there is only a little bit left."
               The jug was quite empty in a moment more; and, at length, after what seemed to the children an interminable interval, the color began to return to Bessie's lips, and she opened her eyes once, but only to close them immediately.
               "Speak to her, Ellen," whispered Mrs. Wentworth; "she knows you, and will not be startled by your voice, as she might be by mine."
               Ellen took one of the cold hands that lay upon the counterpane in hers, as she said, gently:
               "Bessie! don't you know me? Don't you know Ellen Wentworth?"
               Bessie opened her eyes again, and looked vacantly about her. As her glance fell upon Ellen, however, she started, and uttered a feeble exclamation of astonishment. She was too weak and too tired to do more than that.
               "You are here at our house, where I live," continued Ellen. "My brother William found you in the woods, and brought you here. Was n't that good?"
               Bessie gave an assenting nod; but here Mrs. Wentworth thought it best to interfere, lest the conversation should become too exciting. Arranging the pillows, she smoothed back Bessie's disheveled hair, kissed her forehead, and bade her keep quiet while Ellen and herself prepared some refreshment for her.
               She was willingly obeyed. Bessie pressed her face still more closely to the pillow, and closed her eyes, while a whispered consultation was going on between Mrs. Wentworth and Ellen.
               "There is not a bit of wheat bread, mother," said the latter, "not a crumb; and I don't believe Bessie ever ate any rye. I hate to offer it to her; I'm ashamed to!"
               "Poverty is nothing to be ashamed of, my child," replied Mrs. Wentworth, gazing sadly upon the distressed face of her daughter. "We will give your little friend the best we have. We can do no more."
               "There is only half a loaf of the rye bread," said Ellen, coming from the pantry, "and that is dry and old. It is hardly fit to eat. May n't I toast it, mother? that will make it a little better."
               "Certainly; and while you are doing that, I will put the tea drawing."
               Meanwhile Willie had brought the small table from beneath the window, and placed it near the fire. Then, taking the milk-pail, he went out to milk.
               The toast was made, and the tea ready, but to Ellen's anxious eyes the table still looked strangely bare.
               "Oh! if we only had something else to put on!" she whispered. "Just that rye toast and a little butter!"
               "There is a cup of that raspberry jam that was sent me when I was sick. You may get it if you like," said Mrs. Wentworth; "it is on the top shelf."
               It was brought, and the old-fashioned rocking-chair placed in the most comfortable position. Ellen shook up the cushion, and then Mrs. Wentworth would have lifted Bessie from the bed and seated her by the table, but she drew back.
               "Oh, no, ma'am," she said, "I can walk well enough;" and so, with some assistance, she did.
               Bessie would have been greatly astonished had she known how uneasily, and with what anxiety, Ellen watched her, as she took the first mouthful of toast. To her it seemed most delicious, and she thought she had never tasted tea that would not suffer from comparison with that which her kind hostess poured from the little black tea-pot. And as for the raspberry jam, that was quite incomparable. Her mother's most expensive sweetmeats were as nothing to it. Truly "hunger is the best sauce."
               Mrs. Wentworth would not permit Ellen to ask any questions until Bessie had finished her supper, and leaned back in her chair with a grateful smile, and yet a most anxious, thoughtful expression of countenance. By that time, however, her curiosity had become almost uncontrolable.
               "Now, Bessie, how did you manage to get over here—this side of the woods?" she asked, placing her hand on the arm of the rocking-chair. "I should not have been any more surprised if it had been the man in the moon!"
               "I got lost," said Bessie, coloring; "I could not tell which way I had come, and when I thought I was going home, I went just the wrong way, until I came to the brook. Then I followed that, for I supposed it would lead me somewhere."
               "And so it did!" exclaimed Ellen, joyfully; "it led you right here. But wasn't it lucky that Willie found you?"
               "Wasn't it lucky that the old cow strayed off?" asked William, who had just come in with his milk. "If she hadn't I should have been here in the house, and should not have heard you when you called."
               "I should not have hallooed if I had not seen you," said Bessie, smiling faintly. "I did not think of the thing. But I thought I was going to die. I never fainted away before."
               "Were you out walking in the woods, all alone?" inquired Mrs. Wentworth.
               "Yes, ma'am," replied Bessie, coloring again; "I have been there alone a great many times, but somehow I went further into the woods than I supposed before I sat down, and then I fell asleep. When I woke up I could not tell where I was. I ought to go home, now," she added, glancing at the window.
               "Go home! My dear child, you mustn't think of such a thing. If we had a horse and wagon you could go, but you can not possibly walk to Lanmere to-night."
               Bessie felt that Mrs. Wentworth was right, yet she feared she would incur her mother's displeasure in an increased degree if she remained.
               "I don't know what to do about it," continued Mrs. Wentworth; "your mother will be worried to death about you. If we could only get word to her in some way! But I don't see how we can."
               "I'll go, mother," said William, buttoning up his coat; "I can go just as well as not."
               "Oh, it's so far!" exclaimed Bessie. "I can't bear to have you. Don't let him go, Mrs. Wentworth. I guess mother will think I have stopped somewhere."
               But William chivalrously declared that the walk would do him good, while his mother hesitatingly glanced from one to another of the young group before her.
               "If you could borrow a horse, somewhere, Willie," she said, at last; "do you think you could? It would not take you long if you went on horseback."
               "Maybe I can get Mr. Gray's. At any rate it won't do any harm to ask him, and I'll call as I go past his house."
               Bessie looked troubled; but she was really so anxious to have her mother informed of her whereabouts, that she could make no objections to William's plan, except by saying,
               "I'm very sorry—I—"
               "I am not," interrupted Willie, with a bright smile; and taking up his hat, he was off in an instant.
               "Now, Ellen, you and Bessie had better go to bed immediately," said Mrs. Wentworth, as the door closed behind him; "it must be eight o'clock, and Bessie looks pale and tired.
               "So she does," replied Ellen; "but mother," she added, in a whisper; "what will she do for a night-gown? One of mine is in the wash, and the other I have worn several times. I can't offer her that."
               "I will bring one of mine," was the reply, and Mrs. Wentworth hurried away, for she saw that Bessie was hardly able to sit up.
               By rolling up the sleeves, and various other contrivances, the night-dress was made to answer a very good purpose.
               "Oh, Bessie," said Ellen, while untying her shoe; "how is little Whitefoot?"
               "Oh, I lost her. She did not stay with me long," answered Bessie.
               "I've got Whitey yet. Kitty, kitty, kitty!" she called, and presently Whitey, much larger, and much more sedate than when Bessie first had the pleasure of making her acquaintance, came from beneath the cupboard, and jumped upon Ellen's lap. "Isn't she a beauty? But go way, now, Whitey, I haven't any time to play with you."
               This little incident, unimportant as it was, tended to increase Bessie's disquietude. It recalled to her mind what she had entirely forgotten, that her mother had once or twice told her not to have any thing to do with Ellen Wentworth.
               "Every thing goes wrong with me," she thought, sighing heavily; "every thing!"
               Just then the sound of distant footsteps reached their ears, and glancing apprehensively at the window, Mrs. Wentworth took the candle, and hurried the children into a small bedroom that opened out of the kitchen.
               It was scantily furnished. There was a trundle-bed, a chair, and a small bit of old carpeting by the side of the bed—that was all. The window was curtainless, but a couple of newspapers did service instead. The bedding, however, was tolerably good, and, like every thing else in the house, was clean, and in perfect order.
               Mrs. Wentworth had hardly resumed her seat in the kitchen, when the footsteps, that had been drawing nearer and nearer, stopped just in front of the house; and presently an unsteady hand seemed fumbling with the latch.
               "Wait a minute. I'll open the door, father;" said a voice from without, and very soon Mr. Wentworth entered, accompanied, to his wife's infinite surprise, by William.
               "Come, ain't supper ready yet?" he asked, after taking a somewhat surly survey of the apartment; "I should think it was time."
               "We ate our suppers a long time ago, James," replied Mrs. Wentworth, gently. "You know you said you would take yours in the village, and we need not wait for you. But I'll get you some in a minute, just as soon as the kettle boils."
               "Hurry up, then. I suppose a man has a right to change his mind if he pleases. Let the kettle alone," he continued, as his wife was about to fill it; "I don't want any of your tea. Give me some milk."
               Mrs. Wentworth hastily prepared the table, and her husband drew his chair toward it.
               "Nothing better than this for a man, when he comes home tired to death, and clear worn out? Let's see; rye bread, and dry at that—a little bit of white butter—it looks like lard—and some milk. Fine housekeeping! Bring me something eatable, and take this stuff off."
               "I can give you nothing better, James. That is just what the rest of us had. There is no flour in the house, wheat or rye either."
               Mr. Wentworth pushed back the table with such violence that he nearly threw it over, snatched the candle, and went down cellar, muttering with an oath that if he couldn't eat he could drink; and he would, too, in spite of all the old women in Christendom. But, to his great chagrin he found the jug empty, and concluded he must have been mistaken in thinking that he left a part of its contents within it in the morning.
               "Why, William, what does this mean?" said Mrs. Wentworth, as soon as her husband had gone down cellar. "What are you back for?"
               "Hush, mother!" was the reply, "don't say a word about it. I met father and he would not let me go on; said I should not walk to Lanmere to-night, for Widow Allison or any other widow. And when I told him I had thought of borrowing Mr. Gray's horse, he was very angry. You know he had some trouble with Mr. Gray last summer, and he has not got over it yet."
               There was no opportunity for any further conversation, for Mr. Wentworth returned at that moment; and after ordering William to go to bed—a command that was at once obeyed—he hastily undressed, without casting another glance at the table, and was soon asleep himself.
               Mrs. Wentworth sat for a long time over the fire, sadly communing with her own heart. She had been an idolized daughter, but her parents both died shortly after her own marriage, blessing God with their latest breath that they were permitted to leave their child in the guardianship of one in whom they placed the most implicit confidence. She had been a worshiped wife. The first few years of her wedded life were years of almost unalloyed happiness. Then a cloud "no bigger than a man's hand" appeared above the horizon, and it had been growing larger and darker ever since. Poverty entered their dwelling, and stared them menacingly in the face. Her husband neglected his business, and when at times he resumed his wonted industry, he found his affairs in such a condition that he became disheartened and discouraged, and soon relapsed again. At length, thinking that in a strange place and surrounded by new associates he might find it more easy to throw off the chains that bound him, Mrs. Wentworth encouraged him to remove to Lanmere. For a few months all went well. Her heart beat high with hope and joy. Her husband found plenty of work and good wages, and he was as devoted and affectionate as in the earlier days of their wedded life. But this endured only "for a season." For the last year matters had been gradually growing worse and worse, until now it was a rare thing for Mr. Wentworth to return at night wholly free from the influence of intoxicating drinks.
               Tears rolled slowly down her cheeks, as she sat there in the firelight, reviewing the past, mourning the present, and peering anxiously into the dark, mysterious depths of the future. But Mrs. Wentworth was a true Christian; she had the "hope that is an anchor to the soul, both sure and steadfast." She felt that, darkened though her pathway was and might be, it was ordered for her by One who "doeth all things well."
               "'They that trust in the Lord shall not want any good thing,'" she said in a low voice, as she rose from her seat, and taking the candle, approached the door of the room where the girls were sleeping. "Why then do I doubt or fear? 'Oh Lord, my hope is in Thee!'"
               She had concluded that it was not best to disturb Bessie with the news that William had been unable to go to Lanmere. It would do no good and might do harm. The child had fallen asleep, but her cheeks, that had been so pale, were now of the deepest crimson, she was tossing her arms restlessly about, and murmuring incoherent words, seemingly of reproach or entreaty.
               "I am almost afraid she is going to be sick," said Mrs. Wentworth to herself, "her skin is so hot and dry. Yet it may be merely because she is tired, and was so frightened, poor little thing! I wish I could have sent word to her mother!"
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           She rose and paced the chamber dim,
                           And watched the dying moon and stars,
                           Until the sun's broad burning rim
                           Blazed through the lattice bars.
                           About her face the warm light stole,
                           And yet her eyes no radiance won;
                           For through the prison of her soul
                           There streamed no morning sun.
                        
                     
                     T.B. READ.
                  
               
               MRS. WENTWORTH had been asleep for some time, she could not tell how long, when she was awakened by a loud knock at the door. She glanced at her husband. He was lost to all consciousness in the deep sleep of the inebriate, and she felt that it was hopeless to think of arousing him. So springing from the bed, she hastily threw on her clothes and approached the door just as a second peal rang though the house. As she opened it a face presented itself that she was sure she had seen before, but could not tell where. At all events the man seemed to know her perfectly.
               "Good evening—or good morning I guess 'tis by this time, Mrs. Wentworth. I hope I haven't scared you. I came to ask if you had seen any thing of a stray child about here."
               "Whose? Mrs. Allison's?"
               "The very one. Have you seen her?"
               "Yes, she's in there," said Mrs. Wentworth, pointing to the bed-room, "fast asleep. What made you think of coming here for her?"
               
               "Good!" exclaimed the man, emphatically. "That's capital news. Why, you see we've been ransacking the woods for her, a whole lot of us; and I happened to think when I got on to this side, that may be she had stepped in here, and that you had kept her. So I thought I'd come and see, and I'm mighty glad to hear that she's safe. I've got a little girl of my own, and I should n't be over and above pleased to have her tramping about in them woods all night. When did you come across her?"
               "Our cow strayed off, and my son William went in pursuit of her. It was just about dusk when he found her, and as he was driving her home, this little girl hailed him. She had lost her way in the woods, and had wandered about until she was so faint and tired that when she came out on this side, she could not climb that high fence; and besides she could not tell where she was. Poor little thing! she would have lain there under a tree until this time, for all that I know, if William had not happened along. As it was, she fainted clear away before he got to the house with her."
               "The poor dear!" said the man, with a very commiserating face. "The poor dear! But I don't see how we can get her home to-night. We ain't got no wagon, nor nothing."
               "Oh! don't think of the thing," was the reply; "leave her here until morning. I should have sent her home last night if we had had a team. I did my best to send word to her mother, but I could not bring it about."
               "Well, I won't keep you up any longer. Good-by, ma'am. Most likely Mrs. Allison will send after her early in the morning."
               So saying, he departed, and Mrs. Wentworth bolted the door after him. She listened at the door of Ellen's bedroom, but all seemed to be quiet, and unwilling to run the risk of disturbing the girls by opening it, she stole softly away, and again sought her pillow. Sleep was fairly driven away, however, and the gray dawn was approaching ere she succeeded in wooing the gentle spirit to her couch once more.
               "Mother, mother! do wake up!"
               The words were accompanied by an unceremonious shake. Mrs. Wentworth opened her eyes to find that the sun was up, and Ellen also.
               "Why, how I have overslept myself!" she exclaimed, springing up in the bed. "I don't see how it happened."
               "I've been trying to wake you up this ever so long," said Ellen. "I want you to come and see Bessie. I don't know what ails her. When I woke up she was standing by the window, looking out, and she won't go back to bed again, nor dress herself, nor any thing. She acts so queer!"
               "I'm afraid she is sick," was the reply. "I did not like her looks last night."
               Mrs. Wentworth needed but one glance at Bessie's face to satisfy her that her fears were well grounded. Her eyes wore a strange, glassy appearance, and her cheek flushed and paled alternately. She was sitting on the edge of the low bedstead, rocking backward and forward, with one bare foot patting the carpetless floor, and the other curled up under her.
               "Bessie, my dear child, you are sick. Why did you not have Ellen call me before?" said Mrs. Wentworth, kindly taking her hands. Bessie did not reply, save by a low moan, and lifting her in her arms, without another word, Mrs. Wentworth bore her into the other room and placed her on her own bed. Mr. Wentworth had left the house before his wife awoke.
               "Does your head ache, dear? It feels hot. Do you feel as if you had taken cold?"
               
               Bessie murmured some incoherent words by way of reply, but Mrs. Wentworth was made none the wiser by them.
               "She's out of her head, that 's certain," said she, "and I don't know what to do for her. There are no medicines in the house. Oh!—" she sighed, and for a moment her thoughts flew back to the home of her early married life, with its manifold conveniences, its comforts, and its luxuries. Now, she had not even wherewithal to soothe the pain and restlessness of a sick child.
               "Is the little girl sick, mother?" asked William, who entered the room with an armful of wood, just at that moment. "Had n't I better go right off to Lanmere and tell her mother?"
               "Her mother knows where she is, dear. There was a man here in the night to inquire about her, and I told him. There will be somebody after her before a great while, probably, but in the mean time I wish I could do something to make her more comfortable. Mustard drafts on her feet would ease her head, but I have no mustard."
               "Ain't horse-radish leaves good?" said William, who never forgot any thing. "I saw Mrs. Gray fixing some when Robert was sick."
               "Yes; but I do not remember seeing any about here."
               "Oh! I know where there are lots of 'em. I'll bring you a double handful in less than two minutes," and away he bounded in search of them.
               "Bring those that are young and tender, William," said his mother, as he reached the door; "the old ones are good for nothing."
               "We'll get her up in the rocking-chair, Ellen, while William is gone for the leaves," she added, "and bathe her feet in hot water."
               They attempted to carry this plan into effect, but Bessie moaned so piteously, and exhibited so decided an inclination to lie still, that they were obliged to desist.
               "Had n't you better send for the doctor who lives just over the hill, mother?" whispered Ellen, terrified by Bessie's glassy eyes and incoherent mutterings.
               Mrs. Wentworth hesitated a little before she replied,
               "Why, no, dear, I think not. I know Mrs. Allison employs Dr. Elliot as her family physician. This one over here is a Thompsonian, and I don't know any thing about him. Perhaps Bessie's mother would not wish to have him prescribe for her. But here come the horse-radish leaves. They must be well rolled and wilted."
               While the drafts are being prepared and bound upon Bessie's feet, and Mrs. Wentworth and Ellen are making ready their frugal morning repast, let us take a peep into Mrs. Allison's pleasant breakfast-room.
               After Debby had seen Jim Anderson and his coadjutors enter the woods with their flaming torches, she returned with Mr. Floyd to the parsonage, there to await the result. It was therefore long past midnight when she, for the fourth time, made her way through the dark and silent streets, crept softly in at the back-door again, and reached her own room unseen and unsuspected. But, in spite of all this, she was up betimes, breakfast was on the table at the usual hour, the eggs done to a charm, the toast browned to a nicety, and the coffee, to use her own words, "clear as a bell." It was no wonder that Mrs. Allison never dreamed that her handmaiden had passed the greater part of the night away from the protection of her sheltering roof.
               She herself looked worn and haggard. She had evidently slept but little, but she was dressed with her usual care, and took her seat behind the coffee-urn with her usual dignity and deliberation. Margaret came to the table looking somewhat fretful and sullen. She did not like to sleep alone; and, moreover, it was Bessie's week to make the bed, and, owing to her absence, the duty would devolve upon the one who had occupied it.
               They were silently eating their breakfast, when Debby came into the room with some lamps that she had been trimming, and placed them upon the mantle-piece. From thence she went to the cupboard, opened the door and looked in, and shut it again. Then she walked first to one window and then to the other, and finally straightened the rug, and moved one or two of the chairs. Mrs. Allison looked at her in utter astonishment, for Debby was by no means "fidgety," and rarely took any unnecessary steps. On the contrary, she prided herself upon making every stroke tell.
               "They say't Bessie staid to Mr. Wentworth's last night, Mis' Allison," she said at last.
               "At Mr. Wentworth's! who says so?"
               "I heard of it through Jim Anderson, ma'am."
               "What does Jim Anderson know about it? Where did you see him? has he been here this morning?"
               "No, ma'am."
               "It's got to come out," she thought, "there's no help for it, and it's just as well now as any time," and she went on in a kind of desperation.
               "Well, you see, this is just the way't was, Mis' Allison. You know I'd promised Mr. Floyd that I'd let him know if I didn't find Bessie down to the bank; and it kind o' went agin my conscience to think of going to bed without telling him. So, thinks I to myself, I'll just run over there, and then right back again, and 't won't hurt me the least speck. But when I got there, Mr. Floyd said he was afraid that Bessie was in them woods, and he said they must be sarched. So him and me went down to Jim Anderson's; and he got out a whole lot o' the men, and they went all over 'em, from one eend to t'other."
               "And didn't find her," said Mrs. Allison, who was fairly white with anger; "just as I expected, exactly!"
               "But she'd been there, Mis' Allison. The poor little lamb had got lost, and went clean through the woods, and came out t'other side, right by Mr. Wentworth's house. The men said somethin' or 'nother about her faintin' away; but I could n't make out head nor tail to 't."
               "Well, I trust you are entirely satisfied, now that you have succeeded in doing what you seemed resolved to do from the very first," was the reply. "You have made the affair as public as it could well be, and put it into every body's mouth. The whole town knows by this time, that Bessie Allison ran away from the minister's, and instead of returning home, preferred spending the night with those low Wentworth's. I would rather have had her found any where else. She deserves severe punishment, if ever a girl did. I have not the slightest doubt that she left Mr. Floyd's with the intention of going there; for she could not have missed her way very easily, and she has always seemed to take a particular fancy to that Ellen."
               "'Tain't my fault," said Debby; "I didn't feel like setting up agin the minister; and when he said the woods must be sarched, I s'posed it had got to be so. And if they'd bin two or three hours earlier, they'd ha' found Bessie, for it was dark when she got to the Wentworths'."
               "Humph! You can not tell any thing about it from their story. Those Wentworths are poor as church mice, and the man drinks and carouses from one week's end to another. It is not likely the mother is much better, or she would quit him. I do not believe in a woman's being tied to a rum-barrel. If she had any respect for herself, or was what she should be. she would not live with him another day."
               "I s'pose she took him 'for better, for worse,'" muttered Debby."
               Mrs. Allison went on without heeding the interruption.
               
               "I have tried my best to keep Bessie away from that Ellen, for I will not have her associating with such a low set. But now I suppose they think that I am under everlasting obligations to them. This one night's lodging they have given Bessie, they probably regard as the best investment they ever made."
               "They don't look so very poor, mother," said Margaret; "Mrs. Wentworth and the boy and girl go to the other church every Sunday, and they look nice enough."
               "Such folks always put every thing on their backs," replied her mother. "But I know what I'll do. I'll pay them for Bessie's lodging. I will not be under any obligations to this kind of people. They never forget any thing."
               "How's Bessie going to get home?" asked Debby. "'T ain't likely she feels like walking so far this morning, after trampoosing about so yesterday."
               "Tom will not be home until this afternoon. She will have to come on foot or wait."
               "Why can't I take the old mare and go after her? I hain't got much to do this forenoon."
               "Who'll harness her?"
               "I will, and catch her too. I ain't afraid of no horse that ever had a halter on."
               Mrs. Allison hesitated, but finally gave her consent; and about ten o'clock Debby and the old mare started, the former carrying money to pay for Bessie's lodging, tied in one corner of her pocket handkerchief.
               The drafts did not seem to produce the desired effect, and Bessie evidently grew worse rather than better. Mrs. Wentworth became very anxious. She was confident that the child needed medical aid, yet she did not like to call a physician on her own responsibility.
               "It is very strange that no one comes to see about her," she said, glancing at the clock, which pointed to half past nine. "William, I believe you had better go to Lanmere, after all. Tell her mother that she is unable to walk home, and that I would send her myself if we had a team."
               "Shall I go across lots?"
               "No; go by the road, and you may meet some one coming for her. If you do, hurry them along, for the poor child ought to be at home."
               "Hark! I hear a wagon coming," said Ellen, about an hour afterward, as she stood by her mother's side, holding the basin of cold water from which Mrs. Wentworth was wringing cloths to apply to Bessie's burning forehead.
               "Your ears are better than mine, then. I hear nothing," replied her mother.
               "But I do, and I see it too. And there's a boy—yes, it's William himself in it, and such a queer looking woman driving! Do look, mother! she is so funny! She holds one rein in each hand, and she has got the queerest kind of a sun-bonnet on, all puckered up on the top."
               "It is some one for Bessie," said Mrs. Wentworth, glancing out of the window. "But I don't know how we are going to manage. I hate to disturb her."
               Debby was not, it must be confessed, the most graceful of horsewomen; and some of her maneuvers in turning and reining the horse up to the little gate would have made our modern knights of the Circus stare. But the feat was at length performed quite to her own satisfaction, and she climbed over the front of the wagon, and descended by way of the thills.
               "I'll fasten your horse for you," said William, gallantly; "walk right in, if you please."
               "Thank you, my little man," responded Debby. "But I shall feel more safe like about the old critter, if I 'tend to it myself. She's wonderful headstrong, and hard on the bit. I don't b'leve you could manage her no how!"
               
               "Humph! 'little man'!" muttered William, as he turned away, half vexed and half amused. "I wonder if she thinks I'm a baby? If she'd seen me carrying Bessie last night, I guess she would n't have thought me so 'little.' If I ain't big enough to manage that old scalliwag of a horse, as well as she does, I'll give up!"
               Having fastened her steed to the gate-post, Debby walked into the house.
               "Sarvant, ma'am," she said, bowing to Mrs. Wentworth. "This is Mrs. Wentworth, I s'pose? My name is Debby Wilkins, may be you've heerd on me? I've lived to Mrs. Allison's for a great many years back, and I've come arter our stray lamb."
               "Here she is," replied Mrs. Wentworth, smiling kindly. "But I am sorry to say not in quite as good condition as I could wish. I have done the best I could for her, but that was very little. She is a very sick child, I fear."
               "She's in a great deal better condition than she would ha' been if you hadn't found her, I reckon," said Debby, "and I'm sure we're greatly obleeged to ye for taking her in. Poor thing! she seems badly," she added, looking at Bessie and shaking her head.
               "Speak to her," said Mrs. Wentworth. "She has spoken but two or three times this morning, and pays no attention to what is going on around her. Perhaps your voice will rouse her up."
               "Come, Bessie, I've come to take you home," said Debby, sitting down on the edge of the bed, and taking her in her arms. "It's me—Debby—and I drove down here myself a purpose to find you. Come! where's Margaret and mother, do you s'pose?"
               But her efforts were all in vain. Bessie either could not or would not speak, and Debby laid her back on the pillow again with a heavy sigh.
               "Oh dear, I wish she was safe to hum!" she sighed, "and marcy knows how I'm going to get her there! She can't sit upon the seat, that's a certain case."
               "Could you not put a bed in the wagon, and let her lie down?" asked Mrs. Wentworth, after reflecting a moment.
               "I guess I shall have to. But there, there 'tis again! I can't drive and hold the umberel, and the sun'll put her eyes out."
               "Willie shall go with you, and carry it. He must, you can't get along without him. Now we must try to get her clothes on. Ellen, you bring them out of the bedroom."
               They were brought, and Bessie was dressed as expeditiously and tenderly as possible.
               "Now, let her lie down," said Mrs. Wentworth, "while we get the bed into the wagon. Not that one," she added, as Debby was about to lay violent hands upon that on which Bessie was lying, "there's a small one in the other room, which will be more convenient."
               It was several minutes before the bed, and pillows, and coverlet were arranged to their satisfaction. Then Bessie was carefully lifted upon it, and Willie stationed near her, with the immense parachute that held the foremost place among Debby's private treasures.
               "I most always takes my umbrel along, when I go any where—rain or shine—" she said, viewing it, or the grateful shade it threw over the part of the wagon occupied by Bessie, with great complacency, "and now you see how handy it comes. We couldn't get along without it, no how, and when I started from hum I had n't any idee I should want it. Much obleeged to ye for these things, Mis' Wentworth, and for taking care of Bessie likewise. I'll see 't they 're safe hum again afore night. Good-day to ye!"
               Very carefully did Debby shun all the stones and rough places in the road, allowing the old mare to pick her way along at scarcely more than a snail's pace; and very glad was she when they drew up before Mrs. Allison's gate.
               "There, my little man," said she to Willie, "we're here, after much tribulation, and ain't I glad? You jest set still and hold that umbrel, while I git out and hitch the horse."
               Margaret approached the window just then and looked out.
               "Mother!" she fairly screamed, "do see what a queer looking load of folks have stopped here. I don't know who—why, it's Debby! but who has she got with her?"
               Mrs. Allison cast one glance thitherward, and then rushed out upon the piazza.
               "Debby! what have you got there? You must have made a fine appearance coming through the village."
               "I've got a very sick child here," said Debby, gravely, "and I ain't been nigh the village, I went round the square. You'd better send Margaret after Dr. Elliot, the very first thing you do."
               Amid numberless questions and exclamations Bessie was carried into the house, and laid on the sofa.
               "Oh! I must go and speak to that little boy," said Debby, "and tell him to tell his mother that we're much obliged to her."
               Presently she came back.
               "He's gone," she said, "I can't see the first sign of him, and I meant to have given him a piece of that custard pie."
               Bessie was carried up stairs, and Dr. Elliott was summoned.
               "Your daughter is very sick, Mrs. Allison," he said, after a careful examination of her symptoms; "but we will try, with God's help, to make her better."
               It was late in the afternoon when Mrs. Allison went into the kitchen to prepare some cooling drinks for Bessie.
               "Oh, Debby," she exclaimed, suddenly, "you paid Mrs. Wentworth, I suppose?"
               "No, ma'am, I didn't," replied Debby, taking the money from her pocket, "and here 'tis. I hain't had a chance to give it to you before now."
               "And why didn't you give it to her, as I bade you?"
               "Why, Mrs. Allison, you see, somehow, I couldn't. Mrs. Wentworth ain't the sort o' woman you think she is. She is a lady, every inch of her."
               "Very probably," was the satirical reply. "But the money is going to her nevertheless. Send it by Tom, when he goes to carry the bedding home."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "——And her eyes brightened, and her thin white hands
                           Grew thinner yet; her footstep lost its spring,
                           And life seemed beating a slow-paced retreat
                           From all its outposts."
                        
                     
                     GEORGE H. BOKER.
                  
               
               THE corn was still standing in the fields, the "cool, emerald" clusters depending from the grape-vine were just changing to "amethyst," and great piles of apples, some red, some green, some yellow, some a curious combination of the three colors, and some plain brown russets, were lying under the trees in the orchard, when Bessie was taken sick. When she was next able to be bolstered up in an easy-chair, and wheeled before the window, "wintry winds were wailing," and the first snows had fallen.
               She had suffered very much, and as she sat there now, with her little crimson double-gown wrapped about her, her thin cheek was as colorless as the pillow upon which it lay. Her eyes seemed larger and darker than ever, and they were perhaps too bright, as she slowly turned them from one familiar object to another.
               "How long it is since I have been out of this room!" she sighed.
               "I don't think it is so very long," said Margaret, who was crocheting a blue silk purse, ornamented with steel beads. "It is only a few weeks."
               "It will be nine weeks next Thursday," replied Bessie, slowly turning her head; "just nine weeks, and that is a long time for a little girl like me to be shut up in one room. What are you doing?"
               "Making a purse."
               "Yes, I see. But who is it for?"
               "If I should tell you, you would know as much as I do—may be more. I am going to sell it."
               "Sell it!" exclaimed Bessie, opening her eyes wider than ever, "sell it for money?"
               "Probably, I should not be very apt to take any thing but money."
               "How pretty it is! May I look at it?"
               "Yes, as long as you want to," replied Margaret, moving her hook with unexampled rapidity.
               "But may I take it in my hand a minute? I can't see the figures so far off."
               "Be quick, then," said her sister, tossing it into her lap; "I must finish it to-morrow."
               "Why?"
               "Oh, because I must! Come, you have looked long enough. And there's the tea-bell. You must lie down again now, while I go to my supper."
               "Mayn't I sit up a little while longer?" asked Bessie, piteously. "I am so tired lying in that corner. It seems pleasanter up here;" and the child drew her diminutive figure into a still smaller compass, as Margaret approached the chair to assist her.
               "Why, no," responded the latter, "I do not see how you can sit here any longer. I must go to my tea, you know, and if I leave you alone, you'll be sure to faint away, or to tumble over, or to try to dress yourself, or do some such foolish thing. You had better go back to bed. Come! Take your feet off the cricket, so that I can wheel you."
               "Oh, I don't want to! I want to stay here before the window and see the snow-birds, and the icicles, and every thing else;" and Bessie fixed her eyes pertinaciously upon the window. "When I was up last there were leaves on the trees, and now——Margaret! go eat your supper, if you wish to, and send Debby up here. She'll take care of me."
               "Well," said Margaret, turning slowly toward the door, "I'll see what mother thinks about it. But I know you'll talk yourself crazy, if she lets you sit up!"
               Presently, to Bessie's infinite delight, Debby's heavy footsteps were heard on the stairs. The little invalid settled back upon the pillows, with a sigh that was born of pleasure rather than pain, and folded her thin hands very complacently.
               "Sitting up, eh, birdie?" said Debby, approaching the window, while a smile warm from the heart lit up her honest but rugged features until they beamed with a radiance dearer than beauty. "Sitting up, eh? Well, now, that's nice, ain't it? Mother says you may sit up just fifteen minutes longer, and then I'm to put you to bed. Don't it make you tired? How white you are! Your face don't look big enough to kiss!"
               "Try, and see if it isn't," replied Bessie, with a little, low laugh. "But it is no wonder that I am white, for I have been very sick, I suppose."
               "I s'pose so too," said Debby, seriously. "One time I thought't was a chance if we ever had you down stairs again. But never mind that now," she continued, brightening up; "you'll be round in less than no time. You'll be dancing about as spry as a kitten, and spryer, may be."
               Bessie made no reply, but sat still for a few moments, with her eyes fixed on the snow-birds that were flitting about.
               "Debby," she said, at last, "how did I get home from Mr. Wentworth's?"
               "Why! don't you know?"
               "No. I remember going to bed there that night, and I don't know any thing that happened after that, until one day, about four weeks ago, I woke up (or it seemed as if I did), and I was here in this room. The leaves were all gone, and the wind was blowing, and there was a fire in the fireplace. It seemed so strange!"
               "Don't you know how long you've been sick?"
               "Yes, because I heard mother tell Mrs. Mason that it would be nine weeks next Thursday. I shouldn't have known if it had not been for that."
               "You poor little lamb! I went down to Mis' Wentworth's and brung you hum myself. Tom was gone, and I harnessed up the old mare, and caught her besides. Mis' Wentworth fixed a bed into the hind end o' the wagon, and you rid there as slick as a whistle. But the fifteen minutes is up. You must go back to bed now. Sit still; I'll carry you," and, lifting the child in her strong arms as if she had been a babe of a month, Debby bore her to the couch, and laid her head gently on the pillows.
               "There!" she continued, after having straightened the bed-clothes; "you look as if you might take comfort now. Are you tired?"
               "Not much. But, Debby, how did you know where I was? Oh, William Wentworth came and told you, didn't he?"
               "No; something happened to keep him from coming, Mis' Wentworth said. Seems to me she said he started to come. But I'll tell you all about it, seein' that you ain't heard," and Debby proceeded to recount the adventures of that—to Bessie at least—eventful night.
               "The minister was dreadful anxious about you, and so was Aunt Hetty," she added, in conclusion. "He went down to Jim Anderson's his own self, and footed it as if he hadn't been more'n thirty years old."
               "I suppose he was angry with me for running away," thought Bessie, as she turned her face to the wall lest Debby should see the tears that sprang to her eyes. "He has not been to see me once since I was sick. When I was sick four years ago, he came ever so many times!"
               Bessie said nothing more, and did not even move. Debby thought she was asleep, and sat by the bedside very quietly, until Mrs. Allison and Margaret entered the room.
               "Hush!" she said, raising her hand warningly, as the door opened. "Hush! she's fell asleep. I guess she's e'en a most tired out."
               Debby went down, and for a long time—at least it seemed so to Bessie, although in reality it was not more than twenty minutes—Mrs. Allison and Margaret sat before the fire conversing in whispers. At length, as Bessie appeared to be sleeping quietly, they drew the curtains, set back the chairs, and softly left the room.
               Bessie was not asleep. She was only thinking, and after the door closed and she had heard the footsteps of her mother and sister descending the stairs, she turned over and lay with one hand under her cheek, and the other thrown carelessly upon the counterpane, watching the changeful gleam of the fire-light. The chamber in which she lay was large, and was furnished, if not luxuriantly, yet with every thing necessary for comfort and convenience. Very pleasant it looked just then, with the fantastic shadows wavering upon the white walls, and the warm light pervading every corner of the apartment and flinging a ruddier gleam upon the crimson carpet, the window drapery of the same deep tint, and the rich, dark furniture that had belonged to Mrs. Allison's grandmother. Very pleasant it looked, but the shadow of unquiet thought was upon little Bessie's face, and she lay with her eyes fixed upon the fire, winking slowly.
               She was thinking of Mr. Floyd, and of the events that preceded her sickness. The conversation with Debby had recalled them to her mind more vividly than at any other period since her return to consciousness, and the recollection came laden with all the bitterness of recent grief. The tears and the excitement were gone, but there was a kind of quiet sorrow at work at her heart, unnatural to childhood, and far more touching to him who can read it aright than the loudest expressions of suffering.
               But she was mistaken in supposing that Mr. Floyd had not visited her since she had been ill. Not a day had passed, during the earlier part of her sickness, that had not found him kneeling by her bedside, earnestly praying for her recovery, and breathing the tenderest of blessings over her unconscious head. When her reason returned, however, every thing that could excite or fatigue her was strictly prohibited, and the good old man contented himself with frequent inquiries after her welfare, and by sending many a message of congratulation and sympathy. But these messages were never delivered. What was the use? Bessie, to use Margaret's words, "couldn't bear Mr. Floyd," and what good would it do to tell her he had called? It was all nonsense, and it would only worry her. And for the last two weeks the inclemency of the weather, together with his own feeble health, had rendered it impossible for him to leave the house, except for the discharge of his ministerial duties upon the Sabbath.
               Bessie was indebted to Mr. Floyd for one kindness of which she little dreamed. As she was gradually convalescing she greatly wondered why her mother never referred to the apparent cause of her illness, and why she herself, received neither reproach nor punishment for the events of that unfortunate day. It was solely owing to the interposition of Mr. Floyd, who had extorted from Mrs. Allison the promise that "by-gones should be by-gones," and that the delinquent should not be scolded nor corrected.
               
               "She has suffered enough," said he. "It was a strange freak and an unaccountable one, but she has been sufficiently punished. Forgive the child, and treat her as if it had never happened."
               Mrs. Allison demurred at first, but finally yielded to the strongly expressed wishes of her pastor. Not, however, without a good deal of unwillingness.
               Bessie continued to improve, but it was very, very slowly. She was just in that frame of thought and feeling when the material, in its efforts at recuperation, derives no assistance from the immaterial. She grew weary, listless, dispirited, sick of herself, and of every thing around her
               "Oh dear!" she exclaimed one day as Margaret entered the chamber—she had not yet been allowed to leave her room—"Oh dear, I am so tired of staying up here! I wish I could go down."
               "You have sung that song incessantly for the last fortnight," replied Margaret. "For my part, I do not think that a girl who has as nice a place as this to stay in, has any great reason to complain."
               "I am not complaining, Margaret," said Bessie, with tears in her eyes. "You don't understand me. The room is nice enough for any body, but it would n't make any difference to me now, if the walls were made of gold. I grow so tired with nothing to do, or to amuse myself with. If I only had some work to do!"
               "Humph! that is just like you," was the reply. "When you are well you do not like to work any better than other folks, and now that you are sick, you whine because you have no work to do. I should not think it would be any thing but fun to be sick—just a little sick, as you are now—and sit up here in a rocking-chair, and be waited upon."
               "I would rather wait on myself, by a great deal. I should be so glad if I had something to read," said Bessie.
               "There are at least a half dozen volumes on that stand. Have you read all of them?" asked Mrs. Allison, who at that moment entered.
               "No, ma'am."
               "Why not?"
               "Because they looked so dull, I know I should not like them. The words are too long, and the sentences."
               "They are no longer than in many of the story-books you are so fond of reading. I selected them particularly for you. Two of them—this one entitled 'The Duties of the Convalescent;' and this, 'How to derive Spiritual Benefit from Personal Afflictions,' are especially adapted to your present circumstances. I hope I shall not again hear you express a desire for something to read, until both these have been carefully perused."
               "But I don't understand them, mother, and I have to think so hard that it makes my head ache. When I have finished a page, and turn the leaf, I can not remember one word I have been reading, and it is just because I don't become interested," said Bessie, earnestly.
               "Read them without becoming interested then," rejoined Mrs. Allison, sternly. "Read for profit rather than amusement. Try to improve these hours of leisure, by devoting them to meditation and profitable reading, and you will not only cease to find them tedious, but there will be some chance of your becoming a wiser and a better girl than you were before your illness."
               Bessie made no reply, but closed her eyes wearily, and with a heavy sigh; while her mother proceeded to cut out a new double gown for the invalid, fitting it about the shoulders with the utmost nicety.
               Nothing relating to the bodily wants of her children was ever neglected by Mrs. Allison; nothing relating to their mental needs, as far as the mere acquisition of knowledge was concerned; and nothing with regard to their moral and religious training, if the inculcation of the mere formulas of religion can be considered as such.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               
                  
                     
                        "A fair! Yes a fair! So delightful,
                        We work for it day after day;
                        There are several liberal donations,
                        And the pin-cushions can not but pay."
                     
                  
               
               DAY after day wore slowly away, and, at length, to Bessie's great delight, she received permission to go down stairs, and take her meals with the family. Rarely had a brighter face made its appearance in Mrs. Allison's pleasant breakfast-room, than was hers that morning. It seemed to her that the sun had never shone so gloriously before, and that the spotless purity of the winter landscape far surpassed the gorgeous beauty of the summertime. Her admiration of every thing out of doors was unbounded, and the arrangement of things within was no less to her satisfaction. Surely Debby's breakfast-table had never before presented so inviting an aspect. Never was silver so highly polished; never was linen of such immaculate whiteness.
               With what a sense of freedom, with what unalloyed pleasure did she wander from room to room, and how new and fresh seemed every familiar object! She flitted about like a bird; now in the kitchen, watching Debby in her preparations for dinner, and speculating on the number of crackers that would be required for the dressing of the boiled fowls; now in the pantry, admiring the array of pies, the pots of sweetmeats, and the shining tin-ware; now in the parlor, gazing at the portrait of "grandpa," by the side of which Margaret had threatened to suspend her unfortunate sampler; now, in the sitting-room, admiring things and fixtures that she had never thought of admiring before, until compelled by sheer weariness to lie down on the comfortable old-fashioned sofa, and take a nap.
               The boiled fowls were upon the table, patiently waiting to be served up, when she awoke.
               The blue purse with the steel trimmings, that Bessie had so greatly admired, had been completed, and had disappeared, she knew not whither, long ere this. Her curiosity had not yet been gratified by a knowledge of its destination, but on the contrary had been still more aroused by the rapid growth of another and yet another—one of green and one of crimson—beneath Margaret's skillful fingers. These were followed, in quick succession, by divers pin-cushions of various sorts and sizes, and her sister was now busy with a curious kind of work-bag, made of bright-colored ribbons.
               Bessie had made several attempts at reading the mystery, but had been thus far, completely baffled. This afternoon, however, after watching Margaret for a long time in utter silence, she returned again to the charge.
               "What are you making all these pretty things for, sister? I don't see what you want of them—or, at least, of so many pin-cushions. There are one or two in almost every room in the house already."
               "I should not make them if I did not want them; that is a certain case," said Margaret, dryly.
               "You said you were going to sell the blue purse."
               "So I am."
               "And the other things, too?"
               "Yes, and the other things, too."
               Bessie looked puzzled, and somewhat incredulous.
               "I should not think you would do that. If I could make pretty things like these, I would either give them away, or keep them myself. You have plenty of spending-money ing-money. If I were you I would make presents of them; and it happens just right now, for Christmas and New Year's are coming soon."
               "And if I were you," said Margaret, "I would not give any advice until I was asked for it. Most people are quite as well able to attend to their own affairs as you are to attend to them for them. I am, for one."
               "I was n't giving advice," replied Bessie; "I was only telling you what I would do. I don't care what you do with them, I'm sure. But it seems queer to have you sell them when mother gives you all the money you want."
               "Well, if you must know, the 'Sewing Society' are going to have a fair on New Year's Day, and we girls are going to have a table all to ourselves. There isn't to be a single thing on it but such as we make, without any help from the older folks, and I am to be salesman, or saleswoman, and take all the charge of it."
               "Or salesgirl," said Bessie, laughing. "You are not quite a woman yet, if you are so tall. But why wouldn't you tell me before."
               "Because there did not seem to be any particular need of it. It was not all-important that you should know, and you always ask so many questions."
               "But it is important that I should know. Because now I have got well, or almost well, may be I can help you a great deal."
               "Pshaw!" replied Margaret, contemptuously. "A great help you would be. What can you do?"
               "Why, I can crochet a tidy, if the cotton is not too fine, just as well as any body. I know the stitch."
               "Yes. But, by the time you had worked three rows, you would be out of patience, and want to begin something else. I know you of old."
               "No, I would not, I would finish it nicely. Perhaps I should want you to show me a little, sometimes."
               "It would only be 'more plague than profit,'" said Margaret; "besides, I have not the slightest idea that you could make a tidy that would be fit to be seen."
               "I know I could make one well enough. But if I can not do that, I might knit some little stockings. I could finish two or three pair before New Year's."
               "Oh, we don't want stockings, and things of that sort. We only want fancy articles, that will show off well, and make the table look handsomely."
               "What's going to be done with the money?" asked Bessie, abruptly.
               "It is to go to the Bible Society, or the missionaries, or something. I don't really know what they will do with it; why?"
               "Nothing; only I don't believe the missionaries will care whether you sell purses or stockings, if they only get the money."
               "You don't know any thing about it. You see we want to have our table look just as handsomely as any of the rest, and we can't have any bungling work. You are not old enough to have a hand in matters of this kind."
               "What can I do, then? I want to do something to help," said Bessie, very dolefully.
               "There! don't go to whining about it! I knew it would be just so, and that's the very reason I did not tell you before. I did not mean to tell you at all, and now I am sorry that I did. But I expected you would not give me a minute's peace until you knew the whole story. You are such a tease that you make yourself a perfect nuisance."
               "I don't, either," said Bessie, coloring angrily; albeit she had only a very indistinct idea of the meaning of the term. "You are a 'nuisance,' yourself, and it is too bad—"
               "Tut, tut, Bessie!" said Mrs. Allison, who at that moment ment came in from the kitchen; "in a passion already? Are you not ashamed of yourself? I hoped that you would have learned some valuable lessons while you were sick, and that you would remember them for a time, at least. I am perfectly astonished."
               "But, mother, Margaret won't—" began Bessie, in an expostulating voice; "Margaret won't—"
               "Hush, Bessie!" interrupted her mother; "you are quite too much excited to make any thing like a just statement of your grievances; your cheeks and eyes bear witness to that. Margaret, what is the trouble?"
               "Nothing, ma'am, as far as I am concerned," replied Margaret; "Bessie is determined to crochet a tidy for our table, and is offended because I told her I had no idea she could do it well enough."
               "It is not at all likely that she could. Fie, Bessie! Those tears are quite too babyish. You would not finish it, even if you were allowed to commence."
               "I was not determined to crotchet a tidy, mother. Margaret did not tell the whole story; I said I wanted to do something to help, and that I could knit some little stockings."
               "She might do that, Margaret," said Mrs. Allison, turning toward her eldest daughter; "I have some red clouded yarn."
               "But I don't want to have her," rejoined Margaret, with a shrug of the shoulders; "and as long as I was the one who first started about the table, and got the other girls engaged in the business, I think I have a right to say what shall be made for it. We don't want any stockings, or any of those common kind of things."
               "The stockings would sell well, and they would be pretty enough, too;" replied her mother.
               "Well, it is not best for the little girls to have any thing to do with it. If one does something, they will all have to, and we don't want all manner of trash, and miserably done work piled on to our table. For my part, I won't be salesman, or take another stitch for the fair, if the little girls can't let us alone," and Margaret proceeded to fold up her pieces of ribbon very deliberately.
               "Don't be foolish, Margaret. Go on with your work," said Mrs. Allison; "I am sure no one disputes your right to have the management of your own table. Moreover, Bessie, your sampler is not yet finished, and it is not worth while to begin any thing else until that is out of the way."
               "I can finish that any time, mother," said Bessie, struggling with her tears; "but there will be no chance to do any thing for the fair, unless I begin pretty soon. I do wish Margaret would let me knit some stockings."
               "You may knit as many pairs as you wish, for all me," was Margaret's answer; "but they will not be put on our table."
               "Say no more about it, Bessie," interposed Mrs. Allison; "get your sampler, if you feel well enough to work, and when that is done there will be plenty of time to talk of something else."
               Bessie reluctantly obeyed. Her face brightened, however, when she discovered that the sampler was much nearer its completion than she had supposed. She had made rapid progress during the few days that intervened between her difficulty with the capital L, and her illness.
               "I will finish this job just as soon as ever I can," said she to herself, as she took a seat by the window with her work-basket; "and then perhaps I shall have two or three weeks in which I can work for the fair. Oh, mother!" she exclaimed, in a moment afterward; "my thimble has grown so large that it slips off my finger. I can not keep it on."
               Mrs. Allison smiled involuntarily.
               
               "I imagine the alteration is in the size of the finger, rather than in that of the thimble. Can you not manage it?"
               "No, ma'am. It will not stay on."
               "Come here, then, and let me see what I can do."
               So saying Mrs. Allison extracted a little bit of cotton from the depths of her own basket, and wound it around Bessie's attenuated finger. Then trying on the thimble, she found that it fitted nicely.
               Perhaps it was the sight of the wasted hand that lay within her own—perhaps it was the recollection of the little pale face that had lain for so many weeks in the chamber above—perhaps it was the thought of the heaped snow-drifts in the grave-yard, beneath which she had at one time thought her child must surely lie, that moved her heart just then. Perhaps it was but the instinctive yearning of that mother-love, which, how much soever it might be repressed, could not be entirely rooted out. But, be that as it may, some unusual impulse awoke within Mrs. Allison's breast at that moment, and drawing Bessie more closely to her side, she kissed her with a warmth and tenderness that sent the blood in a crimson torrent to her child's forehead, and filled her eyes with a gush of happy tears.
               No happier little girl could have been found in Lanmere that afternoon, than she who sat for two hours plying her needle with unremitting assiduity, and caroling the while low snatches of song. So intent was she upon finishing the sampler, that she would have worked until dark if her mother had not told her to put it away.
               It was indeed high time; and so thought Mrs. Allison as she noted her flushed cheek and parched lips, and the evidently painful effort by which she straightened herself back, and drew a long, weary breath.
               "Go and lie down until tea-time, Bessie. You have worked too long," she said. "You must be careful or you will be sick again."
               "If you are, you can't work for the fair, or go to it either," suggested Margaret. "And, besides, I am tired of running up and down stairs to wait on you."
               "Mother and Debby waited on me a great deal more than you did," responded Bessie, as she threw herself on the sofa, and arranged the pillows beneath her head.
               Bessie gained strength far more rapidly after she came down stairs than while confined to her chamber. Fresher air had something to do with it, but the mental stimulus she derived from her anxiety respecting the fair, had quite as much. She soon began to look quite like herself again, and the sampler was completed to the very last letter, long before her mother had expected that it would be.
               "It does not look so very badly, after all; does it, Margaret?" she asked, holding it up, after having given it a thorough shaking, to free it from the bits and ends of silk; "not so very badly."
               "It might look worse," was the reply. "But, Bessie, it was not very cunning in you to finish this so quickly."
               "Why was it not?"
               "Oh, because you have given proof that you can work as fast as any body when you choose; and you know 'a bird that can sing, but won't sing'—"
               "Pshaw!" interrupted Bessie; "I thought you meant something about the fair!"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Bap. Is't possible you will away to-night?
                           Pet. I must away to-day, before night come:—
                        
                     
                     TAMING OF THE SHREW.
                  
               
               THE next morning Bessie was up betimes, and in a perfect fever of excitement. She was in the kitchen, working off a little of her superfluous energy by helping—or hindering—Debby in her various ante-breakfast duties, full half an hour before her mother made her appearance in the sitting-room.
               As soon as she heard Mrs. Allison's step, Bessie bounded through the half-opened door.
               "Now about the work for the fair, mother!" she exclaimed, tossing back her hair, and hastily pulling down her sleeves, which, for some wise purpose or other, she had rolled up above her elbow; "now about the work for the fair."
               "Why, how you look, child," replied her mother, surveying her from head to foot. "Has your hair made acquaintance with the brush this morning? and what has happened to your apron?"
               "My apron? oh—I tried to strain the milk for Debby and spilled it—that is all," she answered, taking the offending article off, and rolling it up as she spoke; "and I brushed my hair nicely once."
               "Nevertheless, it needs a renewal of the process now, badly enough. Go and put yourself in rather better order for appearing at the breakfast-table, before you talk to me about fairs, or any thing else."
               Bessie bounded up stairs to do her mother's bidding, and returned with a clean apron and neatly arranged locks, in the shortest possible space of time.
               "There, mother, now I am all ready, ready for breakfast, and ready to go to work. It will be New Year in just three weeks, will it not?"
               "Yes—three weeks from to-morrow. How much do you expect to accomplish in that time?"
               "A great deal," said Bessie, thoughtfully, yet with an air of decision. "Mother," she continued, after a moment's pause, "do you think we little girls could have a table at the fair, if we would work hard and make things for it?"
               "You little girls? Who ever heard of such a thing? and the time is so short, too. Why, what could you do, and who would join you?"
               "Oh, there are as many as twenty girls, mother, of just about my age, who will be glad enough to join in it. There's Mary Lee, and Ann Price, and Esther Gray, and Alice Mayfield, and—"
               "Never mind these names now," interrupted Mrs. Allison. "But what can you do? That is the most important thing. Do these girls know any thing about knitting, or netting, or crotcheting, or even sewing?"
               "Yes, ma'am, indeed they do," said Bessie, opening her eyes to their utmost extent, as if to give emphasis to her words; "indeed they do. You never saw a prettier lamp-mat than one Mary Lee made for her mother. They can work slippers, and net tidies, and do a great many such things. And there is not one of them who can not knit. Ann Price knows how to knit such beautiful little socks for babies. They are just as cunning as they can be."
               "But it will take a great deal to fill a table—more than you have any idea of."
               "We need not have a very large one, mother. We could have one the size of this," she said, placing her band on one near which she was standing, "and then it would not take such a very great deal. Do let us try, mother!"
               Just then Debby announced breakfast, and Bessie knew from olden experience that she need not hope to learn her mother's decision until after that had been dispatched. But she paused a moment on her way to the table, to whisper a request that, if her petition was denied, "mother would please not to say any thing about it before Margaret."
               "Why not?" asked Mrs. Allison.
               "Because she will plague me if she knows about it, and I don't like to have her laugh at me."
               After breakfast was over, Mrs. Allison put on her bonnet and cloak, and went out, without saying a word to Bessie with regard to the fair. The truth was she was inclined and yet disinclined to favor the project.
               First directress of the "Sewing Society," and herself one of the prime movers of the enterprise, she was of course very anxious that it should be successful. Every additional article offered for sale would help to swell the amount they hoped to realize, and if the little girls could furnish one table, it would be just so much more than the society had calculated upon. Yet she was not prepared to place implicit confidence in Bessie's statements, with regard to the capabilities of her band of schoolmates, and concluded to take counsel with some of the mothers before she gave her decision either for or against.
               In about two hours—hours that seemed interminably long to Bessie—Mrs. Allison returned, and by the joyful intelligence that the little girls were to have a table, and that they were to meet there that afternoon to form a plan of operations, lifted her youngest daughter nearly to the seventh heaven.
               Margaret's lip curled sarcastically, and she tossed her head with an air that would have irritated Bessie almost beyond endurance, if the latter had not been quite too much elated to notice it. She was flying about, the busiest sprite in the universe, rummaging every drawer, closet, box, or basket, in which she had the faintest idea of finding aught belonging to herself, and culling from thence every scrap of ribbon, every bit of silk, every skein of worsted that could by any possibility be pressed into the service of the youthful laborers.
               The collection, it must be confessed, was by no means an enormous one, but after having placed her materials upon the table in her own room, Bessie surveyed them with a dauntless eye.
               "There isn't a very great deal, to be sure," said she, apparently taking the dimensions of each piece of silk and morocco; "but if all the girls can find as much, we shall do nicely. Oh, I have not looked in this bureau-drawer. Perhaps I can get something else."
               She did not find any thing in the shape of ribbon, but there, nicely wrapped in tissue paper, was the large wax doll that her aunt Ellen had given her so long ago. Bessie had never been allowed to play with it, lest she should break it, or injure its robe of costly lace. Now, however, she lifted it from its envelops, and looked upon it longingly and lovingly. She passed her fingers lightly over its silken curls, smoothed down the folds of its dress, and, with a hand that trembled with anxiety and delight, opened and shut the dark blue eyes that seemed to smile upon her. But her thoughts were too much engrossed by the fair and its interests to admit of her giving much time to her doll that morning, and she laid it down again very carefully.
               "I almost wish you were not so very nice and so very pretty, dolly," she said, with a half smile, as she closed the drawer. "If you were not, I suppose I could have you to play with."
               The little girls met that afternoon, and most of them were as enthusiastic as Bessie herself. It was, in their opinion, quite the most important undertaking in which they had ever been engaged, and the only wonder was that it had not been started before. Bessie deserved, it was admitted by all, unnumbered thanks and praises for having suggested the plan.
               For the next two or three weeks, studies, ordinary work, and play were alike neglected; and the amount of "fair work" accomplished by the children during that time was really surprising. Pin-cushions, purses, and the more intricate kinds of crotcheting and needle-work were, by common consent, left to the elder girls. But lamp-mats of divers sizes and patterns were made, "tidies" were crotcheted, little socks were knit, pretty bibs and baby-aprons were manufactured, and two bed-quilts, one a "rising sun," and the other composed of a host of tiny stars, were pieced, with some little assistance from mammas and elder sisters in the way of cutting out and arranging. On the whole, the "little girl's table" gave fair promise of being most respectably filled.
               "There, Margaret, I told you I could crochet a tidy just as well as any body," said Bessie, approaching the window where her sister was sitting one bright afternoon, and displaying one she had just completed. "It is real pretty, too; scarlet and white look so well together."
               Margaret did not deign to lift her eyes from her own work, or to make any reply.
               "Isn't it pretty, Maggie?"
               "I do wish you would stop calling me Maggie," said Margaret; "and I have told you so times enough. Here, do let's see your wonderful tidy;" and she snatched it from Bessie's hand without much regard to the fragile nature of the material of which it was composed.
               "Take care! You will stretch it out of shape, and I have just been pressing it," replied the latter. "I forgot about not calling you Maggie, sister," she added, presently. "But you always call me Bessie, and I had just as lief you would!"
               "Humph! what else would you be called? Bessie is your name. Every body calls you so, but my name is not Maggie; it is Margaret, and I won't have it spoiled."
               "But what about the tidy?"
               "Oh, it will do well enough for your table. I should not be willing to have it on mine."
               "Why not?"
               "It is so uneven. Sometimes you drew your thread tight, and sometimes you left it loose. It is just like all the rest of your things. They all look precisely like little girls' work, as I knew they would. Who do you suppose will buy them? I wonder mother let you do any thing about it. It was sheer nonsense."
               "I didn't suppose they would look like women's work," said Bessie, turning away with a choking sensation in her throat. "I wish you wouldn't speak so cross, Margaret, and look so sharply at me. You have not been pleasant to me since we began to work for the fair."
               Margaret shrugged her shoulders.
               "If I have not, it is your own fault. You need not have troubled yourself about the fair. Just as soon as you found that we older girls were to have a table, then you must needs have one too. You always will be meddling with what does not concern you, and whatever I do, that you must do. It is too bad! I have a great mind to say that I won't be salesman, or have any thing to do with the fair."
               "I did not know but that you were willing we little girls should help, if we would not put our things on your table. We won't trouble you a bit, Margaret, and if we don't sell a great deal, 'every little helps.' Aunt Hetty said so yesterday."
               "I can't answer for what Aunt Hetty says, but I know Mr. Floyd thinks it is a very foolish move. He said as much as to say so yesterday. He knows well enough that you never would have thought of it if it had not been for me. I should think that little girls might be contented to be little girls, and not be all the time trying to ape the older ones."
               Poor Bessie! the light had been gradually fading from her face, ever since the commencement of this conversation. But at Margaret's concluding words the last sunny gleam departed, and taking her tidy she went up stairs struggling with the tears that she would not shed in her sister's presence.
               Tossing it into the drawer where the other articles of her own handiwork were lying, she paused but one moment to cast a most contemptuous glance upon them, forgetting that she had thought them worthy of unbounded admiration but an hour before, and dropped upon the carpet to give free play to her grief.
               She wished that she had never heard of the fair, that she had never thought of working for it.
               "I don't suppose the things are fit to be seen," she sighed, "any of them! And I think it is very likely that every body is laughing at us behind our backs, and saying that we are trying to ape the older girls. I wish every thing we have made was in the fire! I wish I need not have any thing more to do with it. I wish—"
               It is impossible for us to tell how long Bessie would have gone on wishing, for just then Mrs. Allison's voice was heard at the foot of the stairs.
               "Bessie! Bessie!"
               She sprang to her feet, wiped her eyes, bathed her face, and hastily brushing back her sadly tumbled hair, went down to the sitting-room. Mrs. Allison met her at the door, so intent upon the errand she was about to make known that the traces of tears remained unnoticed.
               "Here, Bessie, take this sample of merino, and go to Mr. Lacy's store. Tell him I want half a yard more, and ask him to be particular about the shade, as there is another piece very much like it. Be quick, for I want to use it immediately. Put on your furs, and walk along steadily, as a well-taught girl should. And see here, Bessie, you must get another skein of that scarlet yarn, for you will need more than you have for that pair of stockings. Make haste, and as I said before, do not go dancing and jumping along, but behave like a lady."
               Bessie was soon in the street, walking rapidly, yet quietly toward the village. It was a clear, cold afternoon, but the air was pure and bracing, and the snow that creaked and crackled beneath her feet was trodden into a firm, well-beaten path. The slanting sunbeams lit up the spire of the church and the windows of the houses until they seemed all on fire, and the icicles that depended alike from the roof of the humblest shed and of the stateliest mansion, and hung upon every naked bough, or swaying branch, gleamed in the strong red light like rarest jewels.
               As we have said before, Bessie was ever keenly alive to the influences of the outer world. It was very cold, but that she did not heed, well wrapped as she was in her warm mantle and soft furs. And as she moved quickly onward, noticing every thing, from the sky above her, unflecked by a single cloud, and steel-blue, save where in the west the declining sun tinged it with a changing, fitful radiance, to the wreaths of smoke that curled slowly upward from even the lowliest chimney, or the snow-birds that flitted occasionally across her pathway—low, musical voices spoke peace to her troubled heart. Do you doubt it, reader? Look back to your own childhood, and although you may have so buried yourself in the thick folds of worldly care and worldly pride, that those soft tones may not reach you now—although your ear may have become so attuned to the loud clangor of the trumpet and the clarion, and to the spirit-stirring calls of ambition and fame that no gentler sound can rouse you from your dream—yet tell me, was there not a time when whispering winds, and murmuring streams, and rustling leaves, uttered oracles? when the tiniest flower and the stateliest pine, the fire-fly glimmering among the trees in the orchard, and the stars that looked in at your window, with eyes so changeless and serene, preached sermons more eloquent by far than those to which you listened on the Sabbath? Well is it, and blessed are ye, if their voices have not yet lost the power and eloquence of the olden time!
               Bessie heard the oracular utterances in a most teachable spirit that day, and long before she reached Mr. Lacy's store, her discouragement and disquietude were forgotten. With a very bright face, she made her purchases, and was just turning from the counter, when a voice at her elbow made her pause suddenly and look around.
               "Why, Ellen Wentworth, is that you? I'm so glad to see you;" and Bessie was about to kiss her little friend with a warmth and earnestness that would have given a double emphasis to her words, when she recollected that she had heard her mother say it was highly improper to bestow such caresses in public. So she drew back and contented herself with a cordial clasp of the hand.
               "And I am glad to see you too," said Ellen. "But are you quite well now? This is a cold day for you to be out."
               "Oh, yes, I am quite well, and I was not at all cold. I have my furs on, you know," and as Bessie spoke, she almost unconsciously glanced at the dress of her companion.
               It was thin and worn, and the one shawl that was her only wrapper, was altogether too light for the season.
               "Why didn't you wear your cloak?" said Bessie; "I should think you would freeze."
               Ellen colored slightly as she replied,
               "Oh, I was not much cold; I walked fast."
               "I haven't seen you since the night I staid at your house. Why did you not come and see me while I was sick?" asked Bessie.
               "I did go once, but your mother said you was not well enough to see any one," replied Ellen. "I went to carry the money back, and I wanted to know how you were, too."
               "What money?"
               "Why the money your mother sent by Tom to pay for your lodging and supper that night. Mother would not keep it, but made me carry it back."
               "I did not know any thing about it," said Bessie, coloring in her turn, for she had an instinctive, though hardly defined feeling, that the money had been tendered to Mrs. Wentworth in no kindly spirit. Then, to change the subject, she added, quickly,
               "Did you know we little girls were going to have a table at the fair?"
               "No; are you?"
               "Yes. Come, buy whatever you came after, and then walk along with me as far as you can, and I will tell you all about it."
               The purchases were quickly made, and then, as the girls walked slowly up the street, Bessie unfolded the plan to Ellen—finding in her a most eager and interested listener.
               "Oh, I wish I could help!" she said, at length; "I know how to make such beautiful baskets!"
               
               "Do you?" cried Bessie; "how do you make them? What do you make them of?"
               "Of acorns and tiny little pine-cones, and I can make moss-baskets, too."
               "Oh, but we can not get acorns and such things now, the snow is so deep;" and Bessie's face suddenly assumed a most rueful aspect.
               "Yes, we can. I have a whole drawerful that I gathered last summer. You may have them if you want to make some baskets."
               Bessie did not notice, what the reader may, that Ellen's last remark was, in effect, a proposition that Bessie should make the baskets herself. It had just occurred to her that pasteboard, wire, ribbons, and various other articles, would be needed in their manufacture, and that she had no money to buy them. Bessie, on the other hand, happened to remember, at that same moment, her mother's prejudices against Ellen, and to think that she might not approve of their scheme. So there was at once a visible falling off in the enthusiasm of either party.
               "Well," said Bessie, after a pause, "I'm very much obliged to you, Ellen, and I would like to have the baskets. If mother will let me, I will come and see you about it to-morrow. But I must hurry home now, and here is your turning off place. Good-by."
               "Good-by. Do come if you can." And they separated.
               Bessie walked rapidly homeward with her little head very full of acorn baskets, and before she reached the gate she had arrived at the wise determination to tell her mother frankly of her interview with Ellen Wentworth, and of the proposition she had made.
               "Well, have you brought the merino, and are you sure it is off the right piece?" asked Mrs. Allison, as Bessie entered the sitting-room and gave her the brown paper parcel. "I am half inclined to think Mr. Lacy has made a mistake," she continued, examining it carefully; "but the difference in the shades is so slight that it can scarcely be perceived. What detained you? You were gone longer than was necessary."
               "I met Ellen Wentworth in the store, ma'am," said Bessie, casting down her eyes.
               "And staid to talk with her, I presume?"
               "No, ma'am, only for a minute. We walked together as far as the corner coming home. And, mother," she continued, drawing closer to Mrs. Allison, and speaking in a low, earnest tone, "I told Ellen about the fair, and she says she knows how to make such beautiful baskets of acorns and pine-cones, and such things."
               "Well?" said Mrs. Allison, as Bessie paused.
               "She would like to help us, mother. She said so without my asking her; and the baskets would be so pretty. And she has got a whole drawer full of acorns."
               Mrs. Allison hesitated. Just at this present time her thoughts and interests all centered upon the fair, and she was well aware that pretty baskets would be very saleable. Moreover, in their collection of fancy articles, baskets had been entirely overlooked, and consequently Ellen's assistance would be doubly acceptable.
               "Don't you suppose you and Margaret could make some baskets without any of Ellen's help?" she asked, after pondering the matter for some minutes.
               "Oh, no, ma'am. I never saw any, and besides we have not any acorns."
               That was a fact which Mrs. Allison had not taken into consideration. They must either do without the baskets, or Ellen must be allowed to make them, and she finally concluded upon the latter, as the least of two evils. But she would so arrange matters that there need be no very oppressive sense of obligation toward "those Went-worths."
               
               "Ellen may come here and make the baskets, if she has a mind to do so," she said, at last. "I will furnish whatever materials are wanted for them, and pay her for the acorns, and for her time and trouble."
               "Oh, she will not want any pay, mother," exclaimed Bessie, joyfully; "and I know she will come. If we could only send for her to-night, then she would be here, ready to go to work early in the morning."
               It was finally determined that Debby should take old Gray, with Tom for a driver (a privilege that was accorded him solely in consideration of its being such cold weather), and go after Ellen and the acorns.
               "I wouldn't let Tom go an inch," said that independent personage, as she tied on her hood, and wrapped her heavy blanket shawl about her tall figure, "for I never can bear to have a man hanging around when I go any where. They're allus in the way, and never know what to do with 'emselves. But, you see, I hain't had time to finish them mittens yet, and it'll be dreadful cold a-driving with nothin' more'n these ere cotton gloves to kiver a body's fingers."
               Bessie begged most earnestly to be allowed to go too. Her mother, at first, refused decidedly, but upon Debby's suggesting that Ellen would be much more likely to come if her little friend went for her in person, she withdrew her opposition, and they were soon on the way.
               Mrs. Wentworth had felt very much hurt by Mrs. Allison's tender of payment for Bessie's lodging, and had returned it with a feeling of indignant contempt struggling with wounded pride and some softer emotions. She was greatly surprised when Debby and Bessie alighted at the door (albeit Ellen had told her the substance of what the latter had said about the fair), and hardly knew how to receive them.
               But she could not resist Bessie's warm embrace, and Debby's hearty shake of the hand, and the frost of her own manner quickly melted.
               Their errand was soon made known, and as Ellen's entreaties were added to theirs, Mrs. Wentworth at last consented to let her go home with them. There was no time to lose. The stars were already beginning to appear, and a ride of three miles was before them. So the acorns were speedily tumbled into a box, Ellen's dress was arranged in a trice, and, with a hasty good-by, they departed.
               Not, however, before Debby's observant eyes had observed some change in the aspect of things, since her visit of the last fall.
               Mrs. Wentworth herself looked older and more careworn. One or two rather expensive articles of furniture, evidently the relics of better days, which Debby had noticed at that time, had been removed, and cheaper ones substituted. William's dress, as well as that of his mother and sister, although perfectly clean, was patched and mended to the last extreme, and was entirely unsuited to the inclemency of the weather. There was no wood-pile to be seen, and the old cow looked as if she was but poorly cared for.
               "Bad signs, bad signs," thought Debby, shaking her head. "I guess that poor woman has a pretty hard row to hoe. He looks as if he'd bin a kind o' smart, likely sort of a man once. Oh, if I don't wish that all the liquor in this ere world was just flung into the bottom of the Red Sea!"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "As bees fly hame wi' lades o' treasure,
                           The minutes winged their way wi' pleasure."
                        
                     
                     BURNS.
                  
               
               THE girls, that is Bessie and Ellen, were up betimes the next morning. It was the week before New Year's, and there was much to be done. Long before breakfast was ready they had arranged all their materials and were ready to commence their pleasing task.
               Margaret had given her head a scornful toss, and muttered something about "such a fuss" and "little girls' work" when the baskets were first mentioned; but this morning her face was most unconscionably long, and she bounced through the room without deigning to notice the pretty acorns, the delicate cones, and beautiful specimens of moss which lay spread out upon the table. Her discontented looks, and fretful air, distressed Bessie beyond measure, and she resolved to make an effort at propitiation.
               "Margaret," she said, having, after a long search, found her sister in the most out of the way corner of the house. "Margaret, wouldn't you like to have some baskets for your table too? There are plenty of acorns, and if you would take hold with us, we would make as many as we could, and then divide them."
               "I would not take them as a gift," was the reply. "Great, heavy, clumsy things they'll be, if you do your very best with them. You can't make baskets out of such trash as that, picked up in the woods; at least, you can't make such as will be fit to be seen. It is just a plan of yours to get that Ellen Wentworth here, and I wonder mother does not see through it."
               "It is no such thing," said Bessie, while the color mounted to her forehead; "but if it was, there would be no harm in it, for she is as good a girl as there is in Lanmere. You need not have the baskets if you don't want them, I am sure."
               "Thank you, ma'am. When I want them I will make my wishes known. But you had better run back to your work now; it is so very important. You are a woman of business lately."
               "You make fun of me all the time, Margaret," cried Bessie, passionately. "You make me angry and wicked, and if you do not stop I am afraid I shall learn to hate you," and the little speaker's voice trembled with suppressed emotion.
               "I am not accountable for your getting angry," returned Margaret. "You need not try to lay all your sins on my shoulders. I was sitting quietly, attending to my own business, and you came here and began to quarrel with me. Was that my fault?"
               Bessie turned away with tears in her eyes, wondering which was to blame, but very sure that when she sought her sister, it had been with no intention of quarreling.
               The hours flew rapidly, but the fingers of the two little basket-makers flew also, and at the close of the third day they had completed several beautiful baskets. Mrs. Allison was delighted with them, and for the time being looked even upon Ellen with some complacency; so that when she went home, although she made her some small presents, and invited her to attend the fair, she did not offer to pay for the acorns.
               "What have you been doing these two or three days, Margaret?" asked Bessie, the morning after Ellen left. "I have seen you at work with wire and alum and I don't know what all."
               
               "I am making some baskets that will be quite as pretty as those you and Miss Ellen are so proud of; and I have not made quite as much parade about it, either. I suppose she thought no one in town could do such a thing, saving and excepting her important self."
               "Oh, let me see them!" cried Bessie, so much interested in the intelligence that she overlooked the manner in which it was conveyed. "I've heard of alum baskets, but I never saw one. I'm real glad you thought of it, Margaret. Are they pretty?"
               "They are not done yet," said Margaret, somewhat softened by Bessie's evident pleasure and sympathy. "But of course they will be. When they are finished, I will let you see them."
               Margaret's "of course" was wrongly applied this time. For some reason or other the crystals would not form, and her attempt at making alum baskets was a perfect failure. This—that is the failure—after the triumphant success of Bessie and Ellen troubled her vastly more than the loss of the baskets.
               There was not a particle of vindictiveness in Bessie's nature, and until the last moment she would have been glad to have shared with her sister.
               "I am so sorry about your baskets, Margaret," she said on the last day of the year, as they were preparing to go over to the Town Hall for the purpose of arranging the tables, and laying her hand on one of the prettiest of her own as she spoke. "I am so sorry about your baskets. Don't you want these two for your table? I had just as lief let you have them."
               But no. Margaret did not want them; would not have them on any account.
               The "little girls' table" looked beautifully, and was most abundantly supplied with pretty and tasteful articles. Before the evening closed every thing was sold, and the pockets of Bessie's little black silk apron (of course she was one of the saleswomen) were heavily laden. Indeed the receipts exceeded even her highly-wrought expectations.
               It was a very happy evening for Bessie. Aunt Hetty was there, and many other friends whom she had not seen since her illness, all of whom had a kind word and smile for her. Mr. Floyd spent an hour in the hall, passing from one table to another, but he lingered longer at hers than at any other. She could not run, as she felt inclined, when she saw him coming, for her duties chained her to her post; but he spoke to her so gently, and bestowed so much praise upon the handiwork of the little ones, that she forgot to regret it.
               "I feared when I first heard of your plan," he said, laying one hand upon Bessie's head, and the other upon that of a companion, "that you had undertaken more than you could accomplish. But you have succeeded nobly."
               "Then he does not think it is a very foolish move now," thought Bessie, remembering what her sister had told her some weeks previously. "Perhaps he never meant what Margaret supposed he did."
               As Mr. Floyd stood by Bessie's table he took out his purse to pay for something he had selected. It was in quite a dilapidated state, faded and worn. The blue purse, with steel trimmings, which had first drawn Bessie's attention to the fair, had ever been the object of her unbounded admiration, and she was at once seized with an intense desire to have it appropriated to Mr. Floyd. But how could she bring it about? She had money enough of her own to buy it, but she shrank from Margaret's questionings, which would be sure to follow such a purchase; and even if she had obtained possession of the purse, she was sure she could never have the courage to present it. Perhaps Mr. Floyd would refuse to accept it from her, after the reports he had received concerning her, and after her conduct with regard to the visit at the parsonage. Oh, no! she would not dare to give it to him; certainly not in her own name. But have it he should. On that she was determined.
               A bright thought struck her. A little boy of her acquaintance was standing near, and without giving herself time to repent, she hastily slipped the price of the purse into his hand, and requested him to buy it as if for himself and bring it to her. He did so, and in a very few moments she was the happy possessor of the coveted article.
               So far, so good—but what was to be her next move? Seizing the opportunity when her table was comparatively deserted, she wrapped it in a piece of clean white paper, and wrote upon the envelop, "A present for Mr. Floyd." Then slipping it in her pocket, she waited for some opportunity to convey it to him.
               Before the evening closed, she happened to espy Aunt Hetty's black silk reticule hanging on the back of a chair, which was, half hidden by one of the window curtains. In went the little parcel, and back went Bessie to her post, laughing to herself at what she fancied would be the good lady's astonishment upon opening the bag.
               A few days afterward, as Mrs. Allison and her daughters were sitting together, each busy with her needle, the bell rang, and presently Debby opened the door and admitted Mr. Floyd.
               "Good afternoon, Mr. Floyd," said Mrs. Allison, as she arose to receive him. "I am glad to see that this cold weather does not keep you a prisoner. Margaret, take Mr. Floyd's hat and coat, and roll in the arm-chair from the other room. It is no trouble, sir," she continued, perceiving that he was about to stop her. "Margaret garet is always very happy to wait on you. Indeed she thinks she never can do enough for her pastor."
               Upon this hint, Margaret, who was, in truth, in great haste to finish the piece of work upon which she was engaged, and who had been about to resume her seat, without bringing the chair, flew into the other room and rolled it in with some unnecessary bustle and parade. Insisting that Mr. Floyd should occupy it, she brought a footstool for him, and then drawing her own chair from its wonted corner, demurely seated herself near him.
               Bessie had arisen when Mr. Floyd entered; but the room was large and rather dark, and on coming in, the sudden change from the dazzling sunlight out of doors had almost blinded him. At first he could scarcely distinguish a chair from a table, and as Bessie did not come forward, he did not perceive her at all. His attention was called, as we have seen, directly to Margaret, and feeling herself thrown completely in the background—not being addressed, or even looked at—and wishing, but not daring to leave the apartment, Bessie quietly drew back to a distant corner, where she was shielded from observation by the old-fashioned chimney.
               Of course the fair formed the great staple of conversation, and of course Mr. Floyd was reminded of his new purse.
               "By the by," said he, drawing it forth, "I had a present the other evening. When Aunt Hetty got home from the fair she found this purse in her bag, neatly folded in a white paper, and labelled 'A present for Mr. Floyd.' I would really like to know to whom I am indebted. Are you good at guessing, Miss Margaret?"
               "Not very, sir," she replied, lifting her eyes for a moment, but quickly dropping them again.
               "Why, Margaret!" exclaimed Mrs. Allison. "That is one of your purses. It is the first one you crocheted. Whoever selected it had very good taste, for it was the prettiest purse in the whole collection. But who could it have been?"
               "Does not Aunt Hetty know?" asked Margaret.
               "Not she. She knows no more about it than I do," was the reply.
               Margaret said nothing more, but a certain indescribable something in her manner, gave Mr. Floyd the impression that she was silent on the subject from choice, rather than from necessity.
               "I remember the fable of the 'Covered Dish,' my dear child," he said, drawing her to him as he spoke, "and I shall not ask you any unwelcome or uncivil questions. But I can thank you for the skill and taste exhibited in the manufacture of the purse, even if you will not allow me to thank you for the gift. It is very beautiful, and moreover, is exactly what I needed."
               Mr. Floyd sat for another half hour, and then rose to take his leave, declining Mrs. Allison's invitation to remain to tea.
               "Where is Bessie, this afternoon?" he asked, as he drew on his gloves; "I have expected to see her every time there has been a movement in the hall."
               "Why really," replied Mrs. Allison, looking round; "I thought she was here. Where is she, Margaret?"
               "I don't know, ma'am. She was here when Mr. Floyd came in, I am sure."
               "You must excuse her, sir," continued Mrs. Allison, following him to the door; "she is a wayward child, but I hope she will do better as she grows older."
               Just as she was re-entering the sitting-room, Margaret started for the kitchen, and discovered Bessie snugly ensconced in the corner.
               "Why, Bessie Allison!" she exclaimed; "what are you hiding here for?"
               "I am not hiding. I only came here and sat down."
               "And why did you do that?" asked her mother, with great severity of tone and manner. "What shall I do with you, Bessie?"
               "I did not mean any harm, mother," replied Bessie, deprecatingly; "and I did not suppose you would care."
               "I should think you would treat Mr. Floyd more politely than to hide every time he calls," suggested Margaret.
               "Mr. Floyd did not speak to me when he came in, so I do not think he cared," was the reply. "But why did you make him believe that you sent him the purse? That was worse than not being polite."
               "I did not make him believe it," said Margaret, coloring.
               "But you knew he did believe it, and you did not tell him it wasn't so," persisted Bessie.
               "And how do you know that your sister did not send the purse, Miss Bessie?" demanded Mrs. Allison. "You are taking a great deal for granted, it appears to me."
               "Because I bought it with my own money, and sent it myself," she replied, bursting into tears of mingled sorrow and anger; "but I never shall tell him, and if Margaret wants him to think she sent it, I have no objection."
               "Hush, Bessie! It is not likely that your sister wishes Mr. Floyd to believe any thing that is not true, and I will have no disputing about it. The next time that any one calls, do you either leave the room, or place yourself where you will not be playing the part of an eaves-dropper."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Standing with reluctant feet
                           Where the brook and river meet,
                           Womanhood and childhood fleet!
                           Gazing, with a timid glance,
                           On the brooklet's swift advance,
                           On the river's broad expanse!
                        
                     
                     LONGFELLOW.
                  
               
               TO use the words misunderstanding or misconception, when speaking of the relation existing between an old man, an aged minister like Mr. Floyd, and a little girl like Bessie Allison, may seem to be making "much ado about nothing," or elevating a molehill to the altitude of a mountain. Yet never were words more justly applied. During the two years immediately following the incidents narrated in the preceding chapters, they were all the time growing further and further apart. All things seemed to conspire to throw them into false positions in regard to each other. Yet the secret of the whole matter lay in Bessie's firm conviction that Mr. Floyd looked upon her as one unworthy of his affection and regard; that he watched her (if at all) with the eye of a judge rather than that of a friend. This conviction, combined with the awe and veneration with which, as we have said, she had regarded him from her very babyhood, led her to shrink from his presence, and avoid his notice whenever it was possible for her to do so.
               This timid reserve, this avoidance on her part, Mr. Floyd attributed to positive dislike. Yet she was a riddle, a mystery to him. To no one of the "lambs of the flock" did he give as many of his thoughts as to her, while with no one of them, perhaps, did he have less intercourse, or exchange fewer words. Had he but been aware of the deep and abiding impression made upon her young mind by the events connected with the visit of the children at the parsonage—had he known that ever since that time she had supposed herself lying under the ban of his displeasure, and liable at any moment to receive his rebukes, he would have possessed the key to much that he could not understand. With a very few words he could then have effaced that impression, or given it an entirely different character. But alas! those words remained unuttered, and the little heart that so yearned for his regard and approval, imagined itself shut out from both, and beyond the pale of his sympathies.
               These three years had wrought but few changes in our friends in Lanmere, and these few were of the inner, rather than the outer life. Mrs. Allison was still herself in every respect; just as stately, as dignified, as cold, and as self-relying as of old. Whatever happened to coincide with her own opinions and prejudices was infallibly right; whatever disagreed with them was as certainly wrong. She had not yet learned to detect and appreciate the minor differences, the lights and shades of character; she had not yet discovered that there are different varieties of goodness in the world, and that those may be equally worthy of love and admiration whose views and feelings are yet very unlike. In short, her education was still incomplete, in spite of the pharisaical pride which thanked God that she was not as others.
               Margaret had been metamorphosed into a young lady by the assumption of long frocks, and the substitution of braids and a comb for flowing tresses and hair-ribbons.
               Bessie was petite in figure and very child-like in appearance; and although she was but two years younger than Margaret, she bade fair to remain a little girl for some time longer. Indeed her mother began to despair of her ever being any thing but a child, and her sister daily read her a lecture upon some real or fancied impropriety.
               "What's the matter, birdie?" asked Debby one day, as she found Bessie standing by the kitchen-window, leaning her head against the casement, with a most disconsolate air. "What's the matter? Your face is as long as my own, e'en-a-most, and you look as if you hadn't got a friend on airth;" and two broad hands rested on her shoulders, until she was fain to turn her eyes from the contemplation of the beets and cabbages in the kitchen-garden to the rugged but kindly face that was bending over her.
               "Nothing," was the reply; "only I was thinking that I was sorry I was 'in my teens.' Every thing that I do now is improper. I wish there was no such word, and when I make a dictionary, I shall leave it out."
               Mr. Wentworth had removed with his family to the village of Lanmere, ostensibly that he might avail himself of the facilities it afforded for the prosecution of his business. But the additional advantages it presented in that respect were more than counterbalanced by the vicinity of the tavern and grog-shop. To his wife these years had been years of alternate hope and despondency. Promises of reformation on the part of her husband, and earnest and sometimes long-continued efforts to subdue the appetite that was destroying him, had often lifted her heart to the seventh heaven; but, alas! only to fall again still lower than before. Her own health was very delicate, and brought up as she had been in the midst of ease and luxury, she was but ill prepared to encounter the difficulties, and trials, and dangers that encompassed her on every side.
               Ellen and Bessie met but seldom. Each had her own round of duties and employments, and though their paths lay near each other they were not side by side. Yet they mutually cherished an affection far more enduring than the ordinary friendships of childhood, and their occasional interviews were to both, sources of very great happiness.
               Nothing had been heard of Reuben, and the memory of the frank, generous, high-spirited boy, who had been a favorite with every villager, was fast passing away. To be sure, Jim Anderson, who was a drover, on his return from market one fall, said that he was sure he saw Reuben Allison in New York, coming out of a sailor's boarding-house. But as he obtained but a momentary glimpse, and the young man, whoever he was, disappeared before he had time to address him, no one placed any confidence in the truth of the report.
               One cold morning, in the beginning of December, Mrs. Allison sent Debby to the village on an errand. There was no danger that one would be tempted to loiter by the way, for the keen frosty air "bit shrewdly," and the snow creaked beneath the feet of the passers by. The large-headed nails that studded the heavy door in the back-kitchen were white with the hoar-frost, and woe to the unlucky wight who had ventured to lay unprotected hands upon the iron door-latch. Besides, Debby was no laggard under any circumstances. Yet twice the time she would ordinarily have required for the accomplishment of her mission had elapsed, and she had not returned.
               "Where can Debby be?" said Mrs. Allison. "She stays unaccountably. Step to the door, Margaret, and look down street; perhaps you can see something of her. It is time the chickens were over for dinner."
               Margaret obeyed, but presently came back to the fire, shivering and trembling.
               
               "Ugh! how cold it is!" she exclaimed, rubbing her hands. "I can not see any thing of Debby, mother, but there seems to be quite a commotion in the village. There are a crowd of men gathered about Mr. Lacy's store, and while I was at the door one of them leaped on a horse that stood near, and galloped off, as fast as he could go, in the direction of Dr. Elliot's."
               "There has been an accident, in all probability," said Mrs. Allison, rising and going to the door to judge for herself. "Yes, some one is evidently hurt," she continued as she returned; "but Debby is coming back, and she will tell us all about it."
               Very soon they heard Debby in the wood-shed, stamping the snow from her feet, and Bessie sprang to open the door.
               "What has happened, Debby?" she asked; "what kept you so long? Is any body hurt? Come in, do!"
               "Oh, my! child, wait a minute 'till I get my breath ag'in. It's clean gone;" and Debby sank panting and breathless upon the nearest seat, which happened to be—not the luxurious divan upon which so many heroines have cast themselves, and which must be very nearly worn out by this time—but a yellow-painted, tightly-covered wood-box. "Wait a minute, and I'll tell you all about it. You see—"
               "Come in here, Debby," interrupted Margaret, from the sitting-room; "we want to hear, too."
               "I'm a coming! Well, you see, I'd just got the cloves and the nutmegs, and Mr. Lacy was a-showing me some samples o' tea, when all of a suddent we heerd a queer kind of a noise just outside the door. 'T wan't more'n a second arter that afore something came down cowhack! right on to the door-step, and then there was the dreadfullest groanin' that ever you heard in all your born days. My heart came right up into my throat, you'd better believe, and Mr. Lacy, he put one hand on the counter, and t' other on his hip, and jumped clear over into the middle o' the floor. 'Somebody's hurt this time,' says he, 'and no mistake.' By the time we got to the door the folks was all a-runnin' across the road from the blacksmith's shop, and the tavern, and all round."
               "But who was it?" cried Margaret, as Debby paused for breath; "you haven't told us yet. Who was hurt?"
               "Why, I'm telling ye, child, as fast as I can. You see I kinder held back a little to let Mr. Lacy go fust, and besides, I felt all of a fluster myself; and when I got out there on the platform, the men were all gathered around so that I couldn't see who 't was, though I could hear that awful groanin' plain enough."
               "But you found out who it was afterward, Debby, and that is what we are most anxious to hear now," said Mrs. Allison. "You have not got over your 'fluster' yet, I imagine."
               "Well, no more I hain't, that's a fact," said Debby, apologetically. "I guess I left my senses down street, 'long with the cloves and nutmeg—for I forgot them sure as I'm alive. But as I was sayin', after a while I got where I could ketch a look at the man's face, and't was Mr. Wentworth, Ellen's father. He'd fell down and broke his leg."
               "Oh, dreadful!" cried Bessie, with earnest commiseration in her voice. "That's too bad."
               "Mercy!" exclaimed Margaret. "What will become of them?"
               "Drunk, in all probability," said Mrs. Allison; "so drunk that he could not take care of himself. It is just good enough for him."
               "Oh, no, ma'am," interposed Debby, "he hadn't been a-drinking. I heard some o' the men say't they knew for sartin that he hadn't touched a drop this week. He was on a spree two or three weeks ago, but he's been be-havin' pretty well sence he got over it. But you see it's all the glare ice on them steps, and I like to fell myself. I told Mr. Lacy he should a' flung some ashes on 'em, or some salt or something."
               "What have they done with him?" asked Margaret.
               "Carried him home," was the reply; "and that's what kept me so long. There was two other women in the store, but they was scared to death, and could n't do a thing. And I see in a minute that it needed a woman to fix the blankets and pillows and things into the cutter, so't he could ride any way kind o' comfortable. The men did as well as they could, but you see they don't know how. So I staid till they got off with him. I'm dreadful sorry for his poor wife," continued Debby, with a heavy sigh, as she took off her shawl and proceeded to fold it in the original creases. "It'll come 'mazin hard on'em, with this long, cold winter just setting in."
               "Yes, it will be hard, I presume," said Mrs. Allison; "but, notwithstanding, I can not say that I shall feel much pity for them. The truth is, most of the sympathy that is lavished upon drunkards' wives, is quite thrown away. I believe that if a woman is what she ought to be herself, and makes her husband's home comfortable and happy, he will seldom fall into bad habits. And if he does, she will leave him. No woman, who has a particle of self-respect, will live with a sot. People do say," she continued, turning to her eldest daughter, "that Mrs. Wentworth is quite a lady—well educated, and all that, and that she is evidently accustomed to good society. But there must be some innate vulgarity at the bottom. She would not remain under the same roof with him another day if it were not so."
               Margaret nodded her head acquiescingly.
               "So it seems to me," she said, picking up the work she had dropped while listening to Debby's recital. "So it seems to me. For my part I have never been so carried away with Mrs. Wentworth, or with that Ellen either."
               Bessie colored, as she always did when any thing was said that offended or troubled her, but did not speak. She was determined that she would keep her temper this time, and not lay up food for repentance.
               Debby stood with her hand upon the door-knob, and her shawl thrown over her arm, while with one foot she described a geometrical figure on the carpet. Evidently she had something on her mind.
               "I ax your pardon, Mis' Allison, ma'am," said she at last, "but it raly seems to me that that idee o' yourn ain't exactly accordin' to Scriptur'. To be sure, I hain't never been married myself, and I don't mean to be settin' up my 'pinion agin them that has. But I've been to a sight o' weddings in my day, and it allus did make me feel kind o' solemn to hear them words: 'For richer, for poorer, for better, for worse, in sickness and in health, till death us do part.' May be I don't say'em right, but that's the meaning, any how. Now that don't mean jest till a man takes to drinkin', does it?"
               "Oh, Debby," interrupted Margaret, laughing, "that is not from the Bible; it's from the prayer-book. Don't you know the difference?"
               "Well, the idees come from the Scriptures, even if the very words don't. 'Till death us do part,'" she repeated, slowly shaking her head. "There's a great deal o' meanin' in that, Mis' Allison."
               "That's all very well in theory," was the reply, "but it does not make it right or necessary for a woman to live with a man after he has made a brute of himself. It is shameful; it is scandalous. It is a disgrace to the sex," continued Mrs. Allison, waxing full of womanly indignation dignation. "If my blessed husband—your sainted father, Margaret—had so degraded himself and insulted me, I should have felt it my duty to have left him, and I should have discharged that duty, no matter at what cost."
               "Very likely, ma'am, but all women haven't your strength o' mind," said Debby, quietly; and it would have puzzled the acutest observer to have determined whether she intended the remark as a sarcasm. "But what if your quittin' him had jest left him to his own destruction, and made him grow wus and wus, when may be by stickin' to him, you might ha' saved him? That's the idee."
               "Hem—well—such a case would be the exception and not the rule. But I imagine the words you repeated have not made you feel solemn very often, Debby, for that form is seldom used in our church."
               "'For better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish till death us do part,'" repeated Debby. "That's the way it goes, and I allus liked it."
               "So do I," exclaimed Bessie, leaning forward with a rich glow upon her cheek. "It's beautiful—and so are those other words, 'Whom God hath joined together let no man put asunder.' When I get married—"
               She paused, cast down her eyes in great confusion, as she met her mother's gaze, and began plying her needle with unexampled rapidity.
               Margaret burst into a sarcastic laugh.
               "Well—really—I don't know but we are likely to have a wedding here before long," she said, after her mirth had subsided a little; "Bessie exhibits so much feeling on the subject. She appears to be quite excited. Pray, Miss Bessie, how long since you became a candidate for matrimony?"
               "I am not a candidate for matrimony," she replied, half crying. "You know better. I only meant to say that if I ever was married, I would like to have the minister use that service. It is so solemn."
               "Bessie! It is ridiculous for you to talk in this way," said Mrs. Allison, lifting her hand warningly. "When I was at your age I should have been ashamed to have given a thought to such a subject, much more to have made it the theme of conversation. Marriage indeed!"
               "You had better wait until you are done playing with dolls, before you talk about getting married," said Margaret. "Only yesterday you cried for an hour just because I called you to finish the skirt of your dress when you wanted to make something for your baby."
               "It is not so," replied Bessie. "You know it is not so. I cried because you were so cross, and laughed at me so much. So that was more your fault than mine. And I haven't talked about being married, either."
               "You have said enough about it, Bessie," said Mrs. Allison. "Let me hear nothing more on the subject. And I wish you to remember that it is very improper for you to contradict your sister in the way you do. Let me hear no more of that either."
               "Humph!" said Debby to herself, as she quickly and skillfully prepared the long-neglected chickens. "Gals will be gals, be they high or low, rich or poor. Mis' Allison thought about being married, and spoke of it, too, afore she was as old as Bessie, I'll bet."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "So love in our hearts shall grow mighty and strong,
                           Through crosses, through sorrows, through manifold wrong."
                        
                     
                     ANNIE OF THARAW.
                  
               
               LATE that evening, Mrs. Wentworth, William, and Ellen, sat around the fire in the room that answered the purpose of both kitchen and parlor. There was another apartment, it is true, which had been designated the "square room," by the former occupants of the house; but wood was dear, and an extra fire was a luxury with which they felt compelled to dispense. The door of the bed-room stood partially open, and upon the bed, which was dimly visible in the faint light, lay Mr. Wentworth, Completely exhausted by the suffering of the day, he was now sleeping under the influence of a powerful anodyne.
               We said they were sitting round the fire, but the remark was not literally true, for the mother was the only one of the group who was seated. She sat in the low rocking-chair, with her face buried in her hands, weeping bitterly, William knelt by her side, with his arms encircling her waist, striving to soothe her with loving words, while Ellen was using the equally powerful eloquence of mute caresses.
               "Don't, mother dear," said William; "don't cry so. It breaks my heart to see your tears."
               Mrs. Wentworth took one hand from her face and laid it on his head as she whispered,
               "They will do me good, my son. I have kept them back all day for your father's sake, and now their flowing may lift this, pressure from my heart and brain. But do not you weep—you and Ellen—for that is more than I can bear. I little thought, when you were babies, and I so full of love and pride, what a blight was to fall upon your young years."
               William did not reply to his mother's last words, save by taking her hand from his head and pressing it to his lips. He felt instinctively that it was the outpouring of a mother—sorrow for which earth held no healing balm.
               "We are not weeping, mother," he said at length; "and we will not weep, if it makes you more unhappy. Ellen has been a little woman all day—as brave and calm as a heroine, when most girls would have been frightened out of their wits. She turned as white as a sheet when father was brought in, it is true, but I have not seen her shed one tear, excepting when the doctors were setting his limb, and she knew by his groans that he was in such terrible pain. Have you?"
               "Not one," replied the mother, turning to her daughter, while a fond smile brightened her sad face for a moment, "not one. She has been a dear, good girl. And you, William, what should I do without you?"
               William shook his head half playfully, half mournfully. "You would have much less bread and butter to buy, if I were away," he said. "I have been but little help to you thus far, my dear mother. But the time is coming now, when I hope I shall be able to do a great deal for you and for Ellen. I shall be fifteen next week. Do you know it?"
               "I have not forgotten it, my son. Oh, your poor father!" she sighed, as a low moan from the bed-room reached their ears. Shading the candle with her hand, she stole softly to the bedside; but perceiving that her husband was still sleeping, she soon returned to her children.
               
               "This is a heavy blow, William," she said, as she resumed her seat again, "and I really do not know how we are to live through the long, cold winter that is upon us. Provisions of all kinds are so high; and the rent is not paid either. I dare not even think of the doctor's bill."
               "And you need a new shawl and bonnet so badly," added Ellen. "You can't do without them."
               "Yes, I can get along very well with the old ones. But you must have a dress, and your father must have new flannels. How we are to manage is more than I know." 
                     
                        "'The birds, without barn or storehouse, are fed,
                        From them let us learn to trust for our bread,'"
                     
                   said Ellen, half laughing, and half crying.
               "Yes," continued Mrs. Wentworth, 
                     
                        "'His saints what is fitting shall ne'er be denied,
                        So long as 'tis written, the Lord will provide.'
                     
                   'The Lord will provide.' It is a blessed promise, children."
               "It is, mother," said William, reverently. "But I remember when I went to school to Mr. Harlow, he wrote this sentence in my copy-book, 'Providence helps those who help themselves.' And I must be doing something. I have thought of it all the summer and fall. I want to go away where I can not only take care of myself, but be earning something for you and Ellen."
               "Go away!" exclaimed Mrs. Wentworth and Ellen in a breath. "Oh, not this winter!" continued the former. "Not this winter, William, while your father is lying as he is now. But when he is up again, I will not say a word to detain you. It is too bad to bind you to such a life, to such a home as this."
               "Mother!" cried William, half reproachfully, "it is for your sake and for Ellen's that I wish to go. Not on my own account entirely, or even chiefly."
               "I know it, my son, I know it. I did not mean that my words should convey even the shadow of a reproof; but I feel only too keenly that there is little to bind my children to their home."
               "There is your love, dear mother," and William kissed his mother's forehead as he spoke. "There is your love, mother, and that is every thing. I would not change our own poor home with it, for any home in Lanmere—no, nor in the whole world—without it. Sometimes I think I love you and Ellen all the more, because I have so little beside to care for."
               Ellen had drawn closer to her brother, and laid her head on his shoulder as he was speaking, while the mother held a hand of each. As their eyes, swimming with tears, rested fondly on each other, they mutually felt that in spite of all their sorrows, they were blest; in spite of all their poverty, they were rich.
               "And there is another thing," continued William, after a while. Usually rather reserved and quiet, he was tonight strong in his purpose of saying something that should cheer and comfort his mother. Ellen looked at him in utter astonishment, thinking that he had suddenly grown very old.
               "There is another thing. There is the hope of better days. There's a good time coming, mother. 'It is always darkest just before day.'"
               Mr. Wentworth's frailties had never been made the subject of conversation in his family. For nothing had the wife striven more earnestly than to shield him as far as possible from the censure of his children. Not by upholding him in his course, but by treating him herself with unvarying respect, and by seldom, if ever, speaking of his errors. But this evening her heart was full to overflowing, and she felt that she must speak or it would burst.
               "One thought has been in my mind all day, William," she said, bursting into tears that had less of bitterness than those shed in the earlier part of the evening. "Good often grows out of seeming evil, and that may be the case now, if this should be the means of your father's reformation—and who knows but it may be? The doctor said he would be confined to the house all winter, and perhaps—perhaps—when he goes out again, he will be a stronger and a different man. Oh! if he could only be again what he once was. Never had wife a better husband, never had children a better father than he was, until this terrible habit fastened upon him."
               "I have never doubted it, mother," he replied. "I recollect our old home perfectly. How pretty and comfortable it was, and how happy we were! Ellen, do you remember how you used to tease to ride on father's shoulder?"
               "As well as if it were no longer ago than yesterday. Oh, mother! if those days could only come back again!"
               "If they only could, my child! But it will not answer for us to look backward," continued Mrs. Wentworth, passing her hand with a soft, caressing touch over the young brows that were bending toward her. "It is with the present and the future that we have to do. I can not bear to have you leave town until your father is better, William; but could you not find some employment in the village? Then you could still board at home."
               "I write a good hand, mother, and I am quick at figures. Do you suppose I could obtain a situation in a store? I can think of nothing else."
               "It will do no harm to try, and I can suggest no better plan. You and I, Ellen, will bear in mind that 'a penny saved is a penny earned;' and we will earn what we can also. Mrs. Grayson wishes to have some more shirts made before her husband returns to the South. Perhaps I can secure the job, and that will bring in a few dollars."
               "But how is it about father?" asked Ellen. "You will have to nurse him, and that will take most of your time."
               "It will take most of it, I know. But I must do what I can. And now, children, to bed! to bed! You will both have plenty to do to-morrow, and it is time you were asleep."
               There were several stores in Lanmere, two factories, and a multitude of shops—shoemakers', tailors', hatters', and so on. Early the next morning William started in search of work, never doubting that he could find it with little or no difficulty. But at one place they did not need a clerk; at another he was too young; at a third he was too old; at a fourth they preferred a clerk from out of town; and at a fifth he was rejected on account of his father's habits. It was not the busy season at the factories, and the proprietors told him they had already more hands than they needed. At the shops they could give no wages to an inexperienced lad, and as money was what he was now in immediate need of, that would not answer.
               Wearied and disheartened, he returned at night to lay his head upon his mother's knee, and pour forth the story of his trials and disappointments.
               "If it was only summer," said he, as he finished his recital; "I could find plenty of work among the farmers. But that is out of the question now. What are we going to do?"
               "Try again to-morrow, Willie," said his mother, encouragingly. "Better luck next time, perhaps."
               "But where shall I try? That is the question. I am not such a baby as to give up for a few disappointments, if I only knew where to apply."
               "Have you been every where?"
               "Yes, every where."
               William went to bed that night much less sanguine and hopeful than he had been the previous evening.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Since duty calls me not, I've no delight
                           To be an idle gaper on another's business."
                        
                     
                     CORNEILLE.
                  
               
               "I'M going down street to fetch them spices that I left on the counter t'other day, Mis' Allison," said Debby, putting her head in at the sitting-room door. "I hain't had a minute's time till now, and I was afeered Tom would make some blunder, if I sent him. And if you hain't any objections, I'd like to run into Mis' Wentworth's and see how that broken leg is coming on. I hain't heerd a word."
               Mrs. Allison nodded assent without raising her eyes from her work, and Debby was about closing the door when Bessie sprang from her chair.
               "Oh, mother, mayn't I go with Debby? Do please let me. She won't be gone but a little while—will you, Debby? I do wish I could go."
               "Debby is in a hurry. She will not want to be bothered with you," was the reply.
               Bessie cast an imploring look in the direction of the door.
               "She can go as well as not, as far as I'm concerned," said Debby. "But I've got to put a clean gownd on fust."
               "What do you want to go there for?" asked Mrs. Allison with a strong emphasis on the do. "Why can you not be content to stay at home, and attend to your own business, like Margaret? I believe you would be in the street two thirds of the time, if I would allow it."
               "Margaret was out yesterday, and the day before," said Bessie, "and I have not been out in more than a week. Do please let me go, mother. I have not seen Ellen for a long, long time."
               "Now I come to think on't, Mis' Allison," remarked Debby, coming back, after having gone half way up stairs, "if you can spare Bessie just as well as not, it would be real handy for me to have her go 'long. Old Mis' Simmons is down with the rheumatiz agin, and most likely she hain't got nothin' fit to eat. That gal o' hern don't know beans about cookin'. So I thought I'd just ax you if I hadn't better take her a pitcher of that chicken broth that was left t' other day. She's mighty fond on't, and it's kind o' nourishing too."
               "Yes, carry her some. But what's that to do with Bessie?"
               "Oh! well, you see I shall have my handsful when I come from the store, and I thought mebby she could bring the pitcher, seein' it'll be empty then."
               "I do not think she will give you any very important assistance," said Mrs. Allison; "but I suppose she can go, if you wish her to. Now don't be gone all day, either of you."
               "No, ma'am. And Mis' Allison, seein' there's a hull lot o' that broth, and it's like to spile, mebby 't would be a deed o' charity to take some to Mr. Wentworth likewise. Folks say they ain't none too well off, though she allers tries to put the best foot foremost."
               "Take it," replied Mrs. Allison. "But do you be sure to bring the pitcher back, Bessie; you will probably leave it as an excuse to go after it to-morrow."
               "I'll see't she brings it, ma'am," interposed Debby. "Come, Bessie, hurry now."
               Bessie hurried, to Debby's entire satisfaction, and they were shortly on their way.
               
               Old Mrs. Simmons was very thankful for the broth, and would have detained them for some time with a minute account of the rise and progress of the "rheumatiz," but Bessie could not stay to listen, and kept pulling her companion's sleeve so impatiently that the latter cut the story short by a hasty good-bye.
               They found Mr. Wentworth suffering much and requiring constant care and attention. His wife looked fatigued and careworn. Ellen was bending over the sleeve of a shirt, and although a bright flush of pleasure passed over her face as she welcomed Bessie, she did not lay it aside. William was not in the house, but they could hear his ax in the wood-shed.
               "Put down your work, my little lady," said Debby, laying her broad hand on Ellen's head, "and run out in the yard with Bessie to get a breath o' fresh air. Your cheeks look as if it wouldn't do you the least mite o' harm."
               Ellen glanced at her mother, who smiled assent, and the two girls ran out of doors. The fresh air, cold though it was, was indeed grateful to Ellen's weary frame, and for a few minutes she was as gay and as lively as even Bessie could have desired. But as the first glow of excitement passed, the latter was not slow in perceiving that her young friend grew abstracted and thoughtful.
               "What makes you so sober, Ellen?" she asked, as with their arms about each other's waists, they walked slowly up and down the yard. "Are you thinking about your father?"
               "Yes, and about mother, and Willie, and all of us. The doctor says father will not be able to walk before spring, if he is then."
               "Oh, that is too bad!" said Bessie, with a very commiserating face. "It will be very tedious to him to be shut up in the house all winter."
               "Yes, but we could bear that, and so could he, without minding it much, if that were the worst of it," replied Ellen; "but we don't know how we are going to get along. There's the rent, and provisions, and the doctor's bill, and every thing—and no money. Oh, Bessie, it is very hard to be poor!"
               Bessie hardly knew how to reply to this, for it was something of which her experience had taught her nothing. And, besides, it gave her a sensation akin to a shock. She had always known that her friends were far from being rich, and that it was necessary for them to practice strict economy. Yet, as they made no complaint, and always endeavored, as Debby had said, "to put the best foot foremost," she had never realized that they were literally poor. But now a hundred little circumstances, unnoticed at the time of their occurrence, crowded upon her memory in confirmation of Ellen's words, and she felt that they were words of truth and soberness. For a moment she stood as if bewildered, and then, throwing her arms around Ellen's neck, kissed her two or three times, without speaking.
               "Was that a shirt-sleeve you were making when I came in?" she asked, after a long pause.
               "Yes," Ellen answered, quite at a loss why such a question was asked at that particular time.
               "Who is it for?"
               "Mrs. Grayson."
               "Will she pay you for making it?"
               "Yes. We have a dozen shirts to make, but I am afraid we will not be able to finish them in time. Mother can't sew much until father is better. She sat up nearly all last night."
               "I can stitch wristbands very neatly, and make a shirt-sleeve as well as any body," said Bessie, hesitating, for she was rather afraid of wounding Ellen's feelings by the proposition she was about to make. "If your mother would let me take some of them home with me, I would like to help you very much indeed."
               "Oh, no, Bessie!" exclaimed Ellen, while tears sprang to her eyes; "you need not do it. I wouldn't have you for any thing. I guess we will be able to get them done before Mrs. Grayson will want them."
               But Bessie persisted, and finally obtained Ellen's promise that she would speak to her mother about it, and endeavor to gain her consent.
               "I feel so sorry for Willie," said Ellen, as they continued their promenade. "He wants to get work, and he can not find any to do;" and, in a very few words, she sketched the history of his efforts and his disappointment.
               "Oh! I have not seen Willie," exclaimed Bessie. "Let's go and find him. Is that he chopping wood?" and away they went to the wood-shed.
               Very soon the conversation returned to the old theme—a situation for William.
               "There is to be a new store opened at the paper-mill next week," said Bessie; "I heard so yesterday."
               "So I was told about an hour ago," replied William. "But there is only a slight chance of my being benefited by it, for I hear there have been already a dozen applications for the two clerkships."
               "You need not despair until you have tried your luck," said Ellen, casting a loving glance at her brother; "I think your chance would be quite as good as that of any one else."
               "No, it would not," was the grave reply. William remembered but too well that once at least he had been rejected for the fault of another; that once at least the iniquity of the father had been visited upon the child.
               "What is the new merchant's name?" asked Bessie.
               "Ashley—Mr. John Ashley," he answered.
               "Why, that is Mr. Floyd's nephew—the one who used to live with him when he was a boy!" cried Bessie. "He went away several years ago, and I did not know that he had returned."
               "Then there is still less hope for me," said William; "for he is, in all probability, personally acquainted with the other applicants, and would be likely to give them the preference. But I will make the trial to-morrow. If I fail, I fail, that's all."
               Just then Debby's voice was heard calling,
               "Bessie! where are you? Bessie!" and they hastened in.
               Debby had been to the store, found her "spices" all in order where she left them, made some more purchases, and was now ready to return home.
               "Oh, Ellen, don't forget to speak to your mother about the shirt-sleeves," whispered Bessie, as they entered the house.
               Accordingly, while Debby was making her adieus to Mr. Wentworth, Ellen and her mother held a low-toned consultation, to which the former soon summoned Bessie.
               "I do not like to refuse an offer so kindly made, my dear Bessie," said Mrs. Wentworth, clasping the little hand that her guest extended in both of her own; "and yet I am unwilling to accept it. What will your mother say? She has sewing enough for you to do, I presume."
               "I will promise never to touch them excepting in my own time, ma'am," replied Bessie, earnestly; "that is, at times when mother never thinks of asking me to sew. I would be very glad to help Ellen, if you will let me, Mrs. Wentworth. I like to make shirt-sleeves."
               "You like to assist others, you mean, I imagine," said Mrs. Wentworth, kissing her flushed cheek as she spoke; "and a very great assistance it would be to me. But—"
               
               We will not pause to relate all the objections raised by Mrs. Wentworth. Suffice it to say that Bessie overruled them all, and when she went home, it was with a bundle of shirt-sleeves under her arm.
               "Don't forget the pitcher, Bessie," said Debby, with a quizzical glance, as she came out of the bed-room. "If you do, may be you'll have to come after it."
               Bessie laughed as she took up her pitcher, but said nothing.
               For a while she walked along by Debby's side, gravely and silently. She had constituted herself a Committee of Ways and Means, and was busily engaged.
               "Lost your tongue, birdie?" asked Debby, at last; "what makes you so still?"
               Like the little Yankee that she was, Bessie responded to this question by asking another.
               "When do you get up in the morning, Debby? how early, I mean?"
               "At four o'clock in the summer, and five in the winter, child. I've allers been an airly riser. When I was a leetle mite of a thing, not more'n so high," and here she measured the height with her hand, "they larnt me to say 'airly to bed, and airly to rise, makes a man healthy, and wealthy, and wise,' and I suppose it means women too. It's made me healthy enough, for aught I know," she continued, laughing; "but I can't say it's made me so dreadful wealthy, nor over and above wise, neither. But what did you ask that for?"
               "When does mother get up?"
               "Not till I ring the rising-bell."
               "And that's at six?"
               "Yes, breakfast is at seven."
               "Well, I want you to call me to-morrow morning at five o'clock. I'm going to be an early riser too."
               "Stuff and nonsense, Bessie! You get up airly enough, I shan't do no such thing."
               "But I'm in sober earnest, Debby. I really want to get up at five o'clock. I'll tell you what for, and all about it, by and by. But don't say any more now, for here we are at the gate;" and Bessie went into the house, inwardly congratulating herself on Margaret's having chosen to sleep alone this winter, and that they consequently occupied separate apartments.
               "If I can only get up an hour earlier every morning," she thought, as she laid aside her bonnet, "I shall have that time all to myself, and then I have some odd half hours through the day. Oh, if I am only industrious, I can accomplish a great deal in the course of a week."
               After answering numberless questions from her mother and Margaret, with respect to the call she had made, and after listening to remarks from the latter, which would usually have irritated her almost beyond endurance, but which she now scarcely heeded, she resumed her seat and her work again.
               She scarcely heeded them, because her thoughts were otherwise engaged. A new idea suggested itself. If Mr. Floyd could be prevailed upon to speak to his nephew in William's behalf, his success would be almost certain.
               But how could it be brought about?
               "Mother, may I go to Mr. Floyd's this evening?" asked Bessie, about an hour before sunset.
               Never had Mrs. Allison been more astonished. For more than three years her youngest daughter had never voluntarily entered the parsonage, and now "all of a sudden," as Debby would have said, and with no apparent cause, she was begging permission to go there. It was truly unaccountable.
               "To Mr. Floyd's!" she exclaimed; "to Mr. Floyd's! What new freak is this? Are you in earnest?"
               "Yes, ma'am, perfectly," she replied, an incipient smile lurking about the corners of her mouth.
               
               "What do you want to go for?"
               "To see Mr. Floyd."
               "Yes, but what do you want to see him for?"
               "I would rather not tell you, ma'am," said Bessie, after a pause, during which her countenance changed several times; "but Mr. Floyd may, if he pleases, the next time you see him."
               "Well, really!" ejaculated Mrs. Allison; "how old do you consider yourself, Miss Bessie? But I shall be thankful if you never ask to go to a worse place than the parsonage. So get your bonnet and go. But you must not stay long, or it will be dark."
               Margaret had been so thoroughly astounded by the above dialogue that she had not said one word. But while Bessie was putting on her rubbers, she recovered her senses sufficiently to say,
               "You seem to be fond of variety to-day, Bessie. This is something like going to a ball and a prayer-meeting the same evening."
               "No one seemed inclined to dance at Mr. Wentworth's this morning, if that's what you mean," she replied, while tying her little hood; "I don't know how it will be about the prayer-meeting;" and off she started.
               "How queerly Bessie acts!" exclaimed Margaret, as the door closed; "I don't know what to make of her."
               "Neither do I," said Mrs. Allison; "I can not imagine what she wants of Mr. Floyd. If she appeared in the least serious, I should think she was under concern of mind."
               "Humph! It is nothing of that sort," replied Margaret; "I don't believe she ever had a serious thought in her life. Only last Sunday, during five o'clock meeting, I caught her reading her Sunday-school book, and when I tried to make her see how wrong it was, she just laughed and said she had heard old Mr. Miles say the same thing at every meeting since she was born, and that she knew what was coming, word for word, and there was no need of her listening; when any one spoke who had something new and fresh to offer, she would put up her book. And then she went on reading, just as if I had not spoken to her."
               "She is a strange and wayward child," was the reply; and Mrs. Allison heaved a deep and long-drawn sigh. "Sometimes I fear that she never will be different from what she is now. I have talked to her until I am tired, but it seems to make no impression upon her."
               Bessie's courage grew "small by degrees, and beautifully less" as she approached the parsonage. Indeed, before she had measured half the distance, she began to wish herself home again. What was she about to do? Force herself into Mr. Floyd's presence and prefer a petition; seek to secure his kind offices for another, when she had never been able to win his favor for herself.
               "I can not do it," she thought, coming to a full stop; "I will turn round and go back. Mr. Floyd will think me so bold and so presuming; and when I try to speak to him, there are ten chances to one that I shall forget my errand. But then William needs the situation so badly, and if Mr. Floyd were to speak to Mr. Ashley about it, I know he would get it. And there is no one who will do this business if I do not. I must go on."
               Bessie did not ring the door bell, but went round to the little side-door opening into the room where Aunt Hetty usually sat. As the good lady opened it in answer to her timid knock, she looked somewhat surprised, but, nevertheless, gave her a cordial welcome.
               "Come in, Bessie, come in," she said; "I'm right glad to see you, dear. Sit down in this low chair by the fire, and tell me if your mother and sister are well this beautiful evening."
               
               "They are very well, I thank you, Aunt Hetty. But I can not sit down, for it will soon be dark. I would like to see Mr. Floyd for a few moments. Is he in the study?"
               "Yes. I will speak to him;" and tapping lightly at the door of an apartment just across the hall, she announced Bessie's arrival, and asked if he would see her there.
               "Certainly," responded a voice from within. "Let her come in immediately."
               Blushing and trembling, Bessie advanced, and paused just within the doorway, while Aunt Hetty returned to the other room.
               Mr. Floyd sat at his writing-desk, and was just finishing a sentence. When he turned round, after the lapse of a few seconds, he sat a moment ere he spoke, admiring the pretty picture before him.
               A picture set in an oaken frame. Bessie's crimson hood had fallen back, leaving her wavy, golden hair uncovered; and upon it, and upon her whole figure, fell the warm, red light of sunset, streaming in through a window in the hall. As she stood there with folded hands and downcast eyes, while embarrassment and emotion gave a rich glow to her cheek, and lent additional softness to a face that was never wanting in the charm of sensibility, she reminded him of a painting by Raphael.
               Rising from his seat he approached her, and laid his hand upon her head, as if in benediction. It was a favorite action of his—one that was very common with him when addressing the younger members of his charge. To Bessie's mind, with her previous convictions, and her settled belief that Mr. Floyd regarded her as a reprobate, it meant no more than a simple shake of the hand.
               "Well, my child," he said, as he gave her a seat, "have you brought me a message from your mother?"
               "No, sir, I wanted to see you myself," was the reply.
               Mr. Floyd waited a moment for her to go on, but as she did not, he said, gently,
               "What is it, Bessie? Can I do any thing for you?"
               "I wanted to speak to you about William Wentworth, sir. He needs the place very much indeed."
               "What place?" asked Mr. Floyd. "I do not understand."
               Here Bessie became suddenly conscious that she was doing her errand in a very bungling manner; and of course her embarrassment increased with that consciousness. Mr. Floyd saw and pitied it.
               "Have you noticed that engraving, Bessie?" he said, directing her attention to a large and fine one that hung upon the wall. "It was sent to me last week, and I presume it is new to you. Here are two or three others also, which I believe you have not seen. Pray amuse yourself with them for a few moments, while I finish this letter, which must be mailed to-night."
               With a sigh of relief—relief of which she was half unconscious, Bessie turned to the engravings, and as they were really fine, and the subjects pleased her, soon became so much interested as to forget much of her disquietude.
               "Now, Bessie, I am ready to attend to you," said Mr. Floyd, as he folded and directed his letter. "You were telling me something about William Wentworth when I interrupted you. Who is he?"
               "The son of Mr. James Wentworth, sir."
               "The man who broke his leg the other day?"
               "Yes, sir. He wishes to get a situation as clerk in a store."
               "Ah, I understand. Is he a smart, active lad?"
               "I think so, sir," replied Bessie. "I know he is a good boy."
               "How do you know that?" asked Mr. Floyd, not a little amused by the earnestness with which she spoke.
               
               "Because he is so kind to his mother and sister, sir, and tries to do all he can to help them. Ellen says she does not know of a better boy."
               "And Ellen is his sister?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Well, she ought to be considered a competent witness certainly. A boy's sister generally has reason to know it if he is very bad. But what do you wish me to do with regard to this matter, Bessie?"
               "Why, sir, the case is just here. They are poor, and now that Mr. Wentworth can not earn any thing at all, it is all the more necessary that William should be at work. But he can not find any thing to do. He has been to all the stores and to the factories, but no one will hire him, and he is almost discouraged. To-day he heard that Mr. John Ashley was about to open a new store at the paper-mill, and he is going to see him to-morrow. And I thought—"
               "What, did you think, Bessie? That I could help him?"
               "Yes, sir. I thought if you would speak to Mr. Ashley about it, and tell him how much William needs the place, and what a good boy he is, he would be glad to give it to him."
               "But I do not know how good he is, Bessie, and I fear he has a bad father."
               "He has a good mother, sir," said Bessie, earnestly; "and indeed, Mr. Wentworth is not a bad man, if he would only stop drinking. Ellen says he is very quiet and patient now."
               "Your friends have chosen a zealous advocate," said Mr. Floyd, smiling kindly. "That shows their good sense, at least."
               "They did not choose me, sir," she replied. "I came of my own free will, and they do not know I had even thought of it. I have said no more than the truth, and not half as much as they deserve, sir;" and Bessie, rising, drew on her hood, and wrapped her cloak more closely about her.
               "I do not doubt it, my child. I have heard Mrs. Wentworth and her children well spoken of before, although circumstances have prevented me from making their acquaintance. But I will go and see them to-morrow morning, and if I like the appearance of your young friend, I will speak to my nephew in his behalf."
               "Thank you, thank you, sir," exclaimed Bessie, while her whole face brightened. "Now I am sure he will get the place, and it will make his mother so happy. I am very much obliged to you, Mr. Floyd."
               "And I am equally obliged to you, Bessie, for calling my attention to this family. I was not aware that they were in indigent circumstances, or I should have sought them out before. But see! the sun is quite down, and our winter twilights are so very short that I must send you home directly, unless you can be contented to remain here to-night, as the guest of two old people."
               "Oh, no, thank you, sir," replied Bessie, glancing at the darkening landscape. "I could not stay, for mother would not know what had become of me. I must go immediately. Good-night, sir."
               "Good-night, my child. But are you not going to shake hands with me?"
               Then as he took the hand she timidly extended, he added, "You have not been a frequent guest at the parsonage during these last few years. Will you come and see me again, Bessie?"
               Bessie lifted her eyes to Mr. Floyd's face for an instant, as if to discover whether he was in earnest or not. But there was nothing to be read there save tenderness and truth, and as she dropped them again, she answered, simply,
               
               "Yes, sir."
               "That is right. Now go, dear, or it will be dark before you get home."
               She paused but a moment to say good-by to Aunt Hetty, and to receive her motherly kiss, and then hastened homeward. Never had the way seemed so short; never had she trodden it in a happier mood. She had conquered self that day, and done a kindness to another at a great sacrifice of personal feeling; and she was repaid fourfold, not only by the success of her mission, but by the unlooked-for cordiality of Mr. Floyd's manner. Somehow she was not half as sure as she had previously been, that she was to be forever an alien from his heart, and excluded from his affection.
               "Run, Bessie, run!" exclaimed Margaret, about eleven o'clock the next forenoon; "Mr. Floyd is coming."
               Bessie just glanced at the window near which she was sitting, but did not move.
               "Why don't you run, Bessie? You don't mean to say that you are going to stay here quietly, like other people? Mr. Floyd would be thunderstruck. Hurry! he is just coming in at the gate, and will catch you if you don't make haste. Run! run!"
               But Bessie was not to be moved this time by Margaret's badinage. Similar remarks had often sent her from the room in a passion of tears; but this morning they had lost their sting.
               "Don't trouble yourself," she said, quietly. "I am in no danger."
               "You are not? Well now, I am surprised. I always supposed that you considered Mr. Floyd an ogre or some sort of a monster, and were afraid—"
               "Hush, Margaret, do!" whispered Mrs. Allison, "he will hear you." And so saying, she stepped to the door to meet her guest.
               "Well, Bessie," said Mr. Floyd, after the usual common-places had been interchanged, "I have fulfilled my promise, I have just called on your friends, and so well pleased was I, that I gave William a line to my nephew—such an one as will, I think, secure him the appointment."
               "I am very glad, indeed, sir," replied Bessie, in a low voice, while Mrs. Allison and Margaret looked at each other in mute bewilderment. "I was almost sure you would like him."
               "They seem to be a very interesting family," he continued, turning toward Mrs. Allison. "There is something extremely pleasing about Mrs. Wentworth, and what is far more, she is evidently a sincere Christian."
               "I do not understand this," said Mrs. Allison, after a pause. "What has Bessie been about?"
               "Merely introducing me to some friends of hers who were in need of my assistance," replied Mr. Floyd; "and I was most happy to give it."
               Mrs. Allison darted an upbraiding glance at Bessie.
               "I am mortified beyond measure, Bessie, at your thoughtlessness. Mr. Floyd has care and anxiety enough without your seeking to increase it, and he does not need that you should point out the path of duty for him."
               "I am sure, mother, I did not mean—I did not think—" stammered poor Bessie, coloring, and with difficulty keeping back her tears, "I only—"
               "Only gave me an opportunity to make a whole family happy by a few strokes of my pen, Bessie," said Mr. Floyd, coming to the rescue. "Surely there was no harm in that, Mrs. Allison, and it is no addition to my anxieties."
               "I understand and appreciate perfectly the kindness which leads you to take that view of the matter, Mr. Floyd," was the reply. "Nevertheless I feel the impropriety of so bold and presuming an act in a girl of Bessie's age, and I am mortified that she should have been guilty of it."
               "Poh! poh! my dear madam, she was guilty of no impropriety that I can discover, and I am very glad that she came to me. My line to my nephew cost me nothing, but it will probably be the means of securing one of the clerkships in the new store to William; and now that the father is a cripple, the family are in great need of his wages. But good-morning, good-morning," he added, taking up his hat. "I am in haste, and called in merely to tell Bessie what I had done. Aunt Hetty hopes to see you all at the parsonage as soon as possible;" and casting a genial smile upon the whole party, he again bade them adieu.
               "Oh, Bessie, Bessie!" exclaimed Mrs. Allison, as the door closed, "how could you have done such a thing? You make yourself perfectly ridiculous about those Wentworths. I should not have allowed you to go to the parsonage yesterday if I had dreamed what your errand was."
               "I did not think there was any harm in it, mother," said Bessie, with a deprecating glance; "and Mr. Floyd did not seem to think there was, either."
               "You do not know what he thought," said Mrs. Allison, sharply. "Of course he would speak as favorably as he could of the matter to me. He is too much of a gentleman to do otherwise. But I know that he is not accustomed to being advised by young girls with regard to his charities, or his pastoral visits. You took a very unwarrantable liberty."
               "But, mother, I did not advise him. I did not ask him to call there. I only—"
               "Gave him such a broad hint to that effect that he could not help taking it, I suppose," said Margaret, dryly.
               "Precisely that," rejoined Mrs. Allison. "The next time you volunteer to instruct a clergyman in his duties, Miss Bessie Allison, pray allow him to remain within the pale of his own church. Mr. Floyd has enough to do, and there are poor people enough who require his attention, within the bounds of his own charge."
               "Mrs. Wentworth must have but very little delicacy of feeling, or she never would have sent you to Mr. Floyd," remarked Margaret. "If she wanted any help why did she not go to her own minister?"
               "She did not send me," replied Bessie, indignantly. "She knew nothing about it. I went of my own accord."
               "I should be sorry to think that you did not speak the truth, Bessie," said her mother. "But when we consider how unwilling you have always been to go to the parsonage, or even to speak to Mr. Floyd, it is difficult to believe that you took such a step without some urging."
               "So I think," observed Margaret, as Mrs. Allison left the room. "For my part, I believe it was all a contrived plan."
               "You can believe just what you please," said Bessie, while a hot flush rose to her forehead. "But I have told the truth, nevertheless. No one knew that I even dreamed of going."
               "Well, well, don't get in a passion, and it is not necessary to speak so loud about it," said Margaret, resuming the book she had been reading before Mr. Floyd came in.
               As for Bessie, she took her work, and went up stairs slowly and sadly. The light had faded from her face, and her step had lost the springing, elastic motion with which she had descended them in the morning.
               Reaching her own room she sat down as one in a maze, and leaned her head upon her hand.
               She was bewildered and perplexed. The line that divides right from wrong seemed to her mental vision wavering and indistinct. Could it be possible that Mr. Floyd was not sincere in his apparent approbation of her conduct? Was he deceiving her?
               Her cheek glowed with indignation at the bare idea.
               "I will never believe it!" she exclaimed. "Perhaps I have done wrong, though I can not see how or where; but I will not believe that Mr. Floyd would pretend to be pleased with my conduct when in reality he blamed me. Mother and Margaret must be mistaken."
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Alas! for the rarity
                           Of Christian charity
                           Under the sun!
                        
                     
                     HOOD.
                  
               
               THANKS to Bessie and to Mr. Floyd, William obtained the coveted situation; and thanks to his own energy and faithfulness, he very soon possessed the entire confidence and esteem of his employer.
               The winter wore slowly away. Owing to William's wages, and the untiring industry of Mrs. Wentworth and Ellen, actual want kept aloof from their dwelling. But fatigue, and care, and privation were their daily guests.
               As the days lengthened, the shadow of another approaching sorrow fell upon Mrs. Wentworth's pathway. As Mr. Wentworth's limb healed, his strength decreased; and by the time the last snow-drift had disappeared, and the young grain and the springing grass brightened the hill-sides and valleys, it became evident to all that he was fast wasting away, that he would soon be an inhabitant of the narrow house appointed for all living. It was long before his wife and children ceased to hope, and to believe that when spring came it would bring "healing on its wings." But he himself was beguiled by no such delusive dream.
               "I am going, Jane," he said, "and I bless God for it. Hard as it is to leave you and our children, I rejoice that I am going home. God, for Christ's sake, has forgiven my sins, and now, in tender mercy, He takes me from the evil to come. He knows, what you can never know, the strength of the temptation with which I have wrestled for years. Sometimes I have been the victor, sometimes the vanquished; and during this long winter, as I have lain here, my constant prayer has been, 'Lead me not, or let me not be led, into temptation.' And in answer to that prayer, it seems to me, He 'delivers me from evil' by taking me to Himself. I bless Him for it, and so must you."
               He died while the May roses were in bloom; and very precious to his weeping wife was the memory of the long hours of uninterrupted communion which preceded his death; very dear were the thanks and blessings that fell from his dying lips.
               "Let the thought of what you have been to me console you when I am gone, Jane," he said to her, the night before he died. "Your patient, forbearing love, has saved me from the death of the drunkard. I have yielded too often and too easily to the arch-fiend who has destroyed so much of our happiness; but He who readeth the heart knows that it has never been without a struggle, oftentimes terrible and prolonged. And it was the knowledge that you still loved and cared for me which gave me strength to struggle on, when submission would have ended the strife; it was the thought of your affection which enabled me to resist the ever-recurring temptation to end my life and its woes together."
               How did she bless God as her tears fell upon his pale brow, that she had had strength to cling to him to the last! Were not his dying words enough to repay her for the hours of suffering, the weary days and sleepless nights during which love had had naught save the memory of the past to nourish it? Let the heart of any true woman answer.
               It was with a chastened, yet grateful spirit, that the widow drew her children to her side on the day after the funeral, that they might consult in reference to their future course.
               "And, first of all, my son," said Mrs. Wentworth, after they had given not a few tears to the memory of the "loved and lost." "First of all, let me know your wishes about leaving Lanmere. Several months ago you expressed a desire to go elsewhere."
               "But I do not wish it now, mother," was the reply. "It is better for me to remain here. Mr. Ashley is very kind to me, and has promised to raise my salary next year if I stay with him. I could do no better elsewhere, and I must be near you and Ellen. What could you do without me?"
               "We should miss you, my son, more than words can tell. Still, if it is best that you should leave us, if it will be for your interest either in the present or the future, we can spare you. Is it not so, Ellen?"
               Ellen was sitting on a low stool with her head upon her brother's knees, and her hand clasped in his. For a moment she hesitated. It was hard to utter words that might prove sentence of banishment to that beloved brother.
               "Yes," she said at last, "we can spare him if we must. But it will be a great deal pleasanter to keep you here, Willie!"
               "And it will be a great deal pleasanter to stay than to go," replied William, as he fondly parted the brown hair on Ellen's forehead. "Yes, mother, I shall remain in Lanmere for the present at least."
               "We will consider that point settled, then," said Mrs. Wentworth. "Now what are we to do next? Your wages, my dear Willie, are not sufficient for the maintenance of a whole family."
               "I know it, mother. Oh, if I were only a man! I long to be able to provide wholly for you and for Ellen, so that you need have no care or thought about the matter; and I know that I could do it if I were a little older."
               "I know it also, my son. But even then I should be unwilling to cast so heavy a burden upon your young shoulders. We must do what we can, all of us. How is it about your needle, Ellen? is it sharp and bright?"
               "Yes, ma'am," she replied, smiling faintly, "but my fingers are tired. Mother—if I could only fit myself for a teacher!"
               "The very thing!" exclaimed William, bringing his hand down upon his sister's shoulder with a force that made her wince. "Ellen, we must bring that about. Can't it be done, mother? I can not bear to have this child spend her days bending over her needle."
               "I am willing to do any thing in our power to avoid such a necessity," said Mrs. Wentworth. "But first of all the doctor's bill must be paid. And, children," she continued, while her voice trembled, and large tears gathered in her eyes, "I feel as if I could not be denied the privilege of wearing mourning for your father. I know some very wise and good people condemn the practice, calling it folly, useless extravagance and all that. But I put on black when my parents died, and also when your little brother was taken from me; and now that your father has gone, I feel as if I must wear some outward token of my heart sorrow."
               "Why, you wore a black bonnet yesterday, mother," said William. "I supposed it was yours."
               "Oh, no! It was one that Mrs. Wilson lent me, and the shawl also."
               For some time the three sat in perfect silence. The children had an entire comprehension of their mother's feelings, and they sympathized with her perfectly. The same thought was in the heart of each, though unexpressed ed; the same fear lest the absence of mourning apparel might be construed as an act of disrespect to the memory of the departed. And as Mrs. Wentworth had striven during her husband's lifetime to shield him as far as lay in her power from disgrace and reproach, so did she now wish, by conforming to the customs and usages of society in Lanmere, to show that those who knew him best, lamented and bewailed him.
               "Would the expense be very great, mother?" asked William, after the lapse of perhaps ten minutes.
               "No, dear, for I have some black dresses that can be repaired, and a bonnet that can be made over for Ellen. But it is not safe for us to incur even a small expense, unless we can meet it by a reduction elsewhere. The question is, what can we do without?"
               "Tea and coffee," said William, "and wheat flour."
               "Oh, William!" exclaimed Ellen. "Mother can not do without her tea, and you and I never drink much."
               "Well, we won't drink any, for the future. Mother shall have hers as usual. How is it about meat?"
               "I can give it up, if the rest of you can," said Mrs. Wentworth. "And as for wheat flour, we can use Indian meal and rye in place of it."
               "And rice," added Ellen.
               "This much we can do, at all events," continued the mother, "if you will agree to it. At least, I think we can. We can save enough from our table expenses during the next six months, to meet the extra expense for clothing. But I give you warning that your food will be very plain."
               "We won't quarrel with that, mother, if there is enough of it," replied William. "So there's another point settled."
               "And now about Ellen's going to school," said Mrs. Wentworth. "I really do not know how to manage that. Yet it must be managed someway. She ought to go this summer."
               Ellen's eyes brightened, and her cheeks glowed.
               "Oh, if I only could, mother, I would be willing to live on one meal a day! I would work before and after school, and half the night if it was necessary."
               "That would not do, my dear child," replied Mrs. Wentworth, "for you would soon wear yourself out. But I will go and see Dr. Elliot, and if he will wait until next fall for his pay, you may go, and we will try what we can do."
               "We can get along with it somehow or other, I know," said William. "I have just thought of a way in which I can earn a trifle more each week, than I do now, and that shall be devoted to the school bills. We'll manage it, Ellie, and I expect you'll be at the head of your classes."
               "I'll try," was the answer; "and now I will tell you what I will do. If we do not succeed according to your expectations, I will work in the factory next winter, and pay my own bills."
               "Not if I can help it, dear Ellen," said William, kissing her cheek. "Not if I can prevent it."
               "Or I, either," added Mrs. Wentworth. "I would much rather have you sewing here by my side, than toiling amid the noise and confusion of a factory. But it will do to think of as a resource in an emergency."
               For an hour longer they sat there, planning and contriving, and feeling their hearts drawn more and more closely together as they did so. They were gilding the iron chain of poverty with the pure gold of affection.
               Then in a short and simple, yet fervent prayer, Mrs. Wentworth committed herself and her childrem to Him who has promised to be the "Father of the fatherless, and the widow's God and friend!" and they lay down to sleep calmly and peacefully beneath the shadow of the Rock of Ages.
               "Such mockery!" exclaimed Margaret Allison, about two weeks afterward, as she stood by the open window of the sitting-room.
               "What?" asked her mother. "What are you talking about?"
               "Do but come here and see for yourself," was the reply. "Here are Mrs. Wentworth and Ellen going down street, all in deep mourning—black collars and all."
               "How do you know?" said Bessie, who was at the other window. "You can not see at this distance whether they have black collars or none at all."
               "Well, it is but fair to conclude, when people are so fashionably rigged, that they have not forgotten their collars, and they certainly have not on white ones. It is all mockery," she repeated.
               "Why?"
               Imprudent Bessie! It seemed utterly impossible for her to avoid taking up the gauntlet in behalf of her friends, even when it was certain to bring upon herself displeasure and rebuke.
               Mrs. Allison responded to the question.
               "Why? Because there can be no heart-mourning about it. It is all on the outside. It is not reasonable to suppose that Mr. Wentworth's family can feel his loss much. To be sure, death is death, and when it enters a house will make itself felt, more or less. But when such a man dies, it must be rather a relief than otherwise."
               "They don't find it so," said Bessie. "Ellen can hardly speak of her father without crying."
               "I've heard of 'crocodile's tears,'" remarked Margaret.
               "Oh, Margaret, that is too bad!" exclaimed Bessie. "You don't know what you are talking about."
               "And what do you know of it?" asked Mrs. Allison. "Where did you see Ellen?"
               "At school, ma'am."
               
               "What! at Miss Carey's school?"
               "Yes, ma'am."
               "Coming up in the world, I should think," said Margaret, dryly.
               "Perfect extravagance," remarked her mother. "It is really sinful, in their circumstances."
               "But, mother," said Bessie, "Ellen told me all about it. She is an excellent scholar for a girl of her age, and they all think she can fit herself for a teacher in a year or two; and her mother thought they would save money by sending her to the best school in the place. She works very hard out of school, and says that if her mother has any difficulty in getting along, she shall not go to school in the winter, but work in the factory."
               "Humph! One of Miss Carey's scholars at work in the factory! That would be something new under the sun," said Margaret. "She would have done better to have saved the money she has spent for her mourning-dress, and laid it by to pay her school bills. It will be needed, I imagine."
               "You would not speak so about their wearing black," said Bessie, "if you knew how they felt about it. I hope that when I die there will be some one who will mourn for me as sincerely as Ellen does for her father," and large tears gathered in the soft brown eyes of the speaker.
               "They say that Mr. Wentworth experienced religion before he died," said Margaret, in a somewhat softer tone.
               "I know they do," replied Mrs. Allison; "but for my part, I have no faith in death-bed repentances. If Mr. Wentworth had lived he would have gone to drinking again, I have no kind of doubt. I was shocked to hear Mr. Wilson, their minister, remark before a roomful of people yesterday, that if ever a man died the death of an humble, prayerful Christian, it was James Wentworth. It was just about the same as saying that a man might as well keep on sinning till the last minute, and then expect to be saved. Mr. Floyd would never have made such an injudicious observation."
               Bessie was on the point of disputing her mother's interpretation of Mr. Wilson's remark, when she remembered two things. One was, that if she entered into a theological discussion with Mrs. Allison, she was sure to be beaten in the argument; the other was, that if she was sure of success, it was hardly proper for her to dispute with her mother. But that lady's concluding words recalled to Bessie's mind the sermon of Mr. Floyd's to which she had listened on the preceding Sunday, and she could not avoid saying, as she turned to leave the room,
               "There was a thief who died on the cross, was there not, mother?"
               "Certainly."
               "And what was it that Christ said to him?"
               "Read your Bible, and you will be able to answer the question yourself," was the sharp reply.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           And now the orchards that were once
                           All white and rosy in their bloom—
                           Filling the crystal heart of air
                           With gentle pulses of perfume—
                           Were thick with yellow, juicy fruit;
                           The plums were globes of honey rare,
                           The soft-cheeked peaches blushed and fell,
                           And grapes were purpling in the grange.
                        
                     
                     T.B. ALDRICH.
                  
               
               THE long, bright days of summer had chased each other into eternity, and the twilight of the year was approaching. October, with skies of intensest blue, and the prophetic stillness, that, in spite of the gorgeous apparel donned alike by the stately forest trees, and the lowly shrub by the wayside, speaks so eloquently to the heart, of change, decay, and death—October, the "mute among the months," had come.
               Mrs. Allison and her daughters were seated round the breakfast-table one morning, when the door hastily opened and Debby appeared.
               "Aunt Hetty has sent for you, ma'am," she said, before she was fairly in the room. "Mr. Floyd was took sick in the night, and Joe Blake says't Aunt Hetty says if you'd please to come right over she'll be greatly obliged."
               "Tell him I will come presently," replied Mrs. Allison, as she broke an egg.
               Very soon, Debby returned.
               "Joe Blake wanted me to come back, ma'am, and tell you that Aunt Hetty seemed to be in a dreadful hurry. He said she was all in a fluster."
               But Mrs. Allison was never "in a fluster," and after finishing her breakfast very deliberately, she proceeded to arrange her dress for the day.
               "Don't stop to brush your hair, mother," said Margaret; "it looks well enough, and if Mr. Floyd is very sick, he will die before you get there."
               "No danger," was the reply; "Aunt Hetty is always frightened if Mr. Floyd breathes a little more quickly than she thinks he ought. I am not going through the streets with this wrapper on."
               It was at least an hour after the summons reached her before she was fairly started; and then she turned back after she had reached the gate, to give Debby some further instructions about the morning's work, and remind Bessie of her Saturday's mending.
               But it was late in the afternoon when she returned.
               "Mr. Floyd is very sick," she said, in reply to the eager questioning of the two girls. "It was no false alarm this time."
               "What seems to be the matter?" asked Debby, who had joined the group.
               "Typhus fever, we fear," was the answer.
               Debby shook her head sorrowfully, and after asking one or two more questions, went back to the kitchen.
               "Is he very sick, mother?" asked Bessie. "Very sick indeed?"
               "Yes, as sick as any one need be. And, Margaret, I told Aunt Hetty you would go over and stay at the parsonage to-night."
               "Oh, mother! I don't know any thing about taking care of sick people."
               "Aunt Hetty will take care of Mr. Floyd, herself, and it is not necessary for you to know much about it. They have an excellent girl in the kitchen, and Joe Blake is as good as a woman around the house. So there is not much to be done. What Aunt Hetty wants is some one to wait upon her, go of errands to the kitchen, and sit with Mr. Floyd when she is obliged to leave the room. You can do that well enough."
               "I don't want to go, mother. I can't bear to be in a sick room."
               "It is not pleasant, I grant," said Mrs. Allison; "but I do wish you would go, Margaret. It would please Mr. Floyd so much."
               For a moment, Margaret hesitated.
               "I can't mother," she said, at length. "I am afraid of the typhus fever, and I should take it as sure as the world. I wouldn't go for any thing."
               "Let me go, mother. I'll go!" cried Bessie.
               "You!—There is no danger, Margaret. The disease is not contagious."
               "I can't help it, ma'am. Let Bessie go if she has a mind. I can't go."
               "Bessie would not do any good, I'm afraid. She knows nothing about sickness."
               "You just said that was not necessary, mother," said Bessie. "I can do all Aunt Hetty wants. Do let me go."
               Mrs. Allison at last consented; and in a very few moments Bessie was on the way to the parsonage with her night-clothes and double-gown in her satchel.
               The sun was low in the west, and while the lofty brows of the mountains that kept "watch and ward" over the beautiful valley in which Lanmere lay, seemed crowned with gold, and overhung with gorgeous canopies of crimson and purple, and flame-color—while the tall spires of the village churches burned and glowed as if they were tipped with living fire—the village itself lay in the deepest shadow. The large trees—stately, dignified maples, and oaks older far than the oldest inhabitant, drooping elms and graceful locusts, which surrounded rounded nearly all the dwellings, were almost black in the gathering darkness; and the monotonous call of the katydid mingled with the shrill chirp of the cricket and the cry of a lonely whippowil.
               Bessie walked on rapidly in a state of feverish excitement. She thought neither of sunset clouds, royally robed mountains, or golden-tipped fanes. Nothing to her were the few stars that peeped forth one by one; or the pallid moon, that, hanging high in the heavens, looked more like the ghost of the dead day than the glorious Queen of night. The deepening shadow spoke to her of the pall, the bier, and the grave, and to her excited fancy, the very wind, as it played among the tree-tops, or swayed the rustling pines, uttered, in its ever-varying tones, the one word—death.
               Her thoughts had been with Mr. Floyd all day long. Margaret had been in an unusually genial and companionable mood, and had seemed quite inclined to depart from her general custom of keeping aloof from Bessie—holding her at arm's length, as it were—and to indulge in a little sisterly chat. But, as so frequently happens, Bessie had been equally far the other way. She, who was continually striving to make Margaret more "sociable," as she called it—she, who had shed many a tear over her ineffectual efforts to establish different relations between her sister and herself—had been still and quiet all day, seemingly unwilling or unable to meet her advances with any thing like reciprocation.
               A sudden impulse had led her to offer to go to the parsonage in Margaret's stead; an eager longing to be in the presence of her pastor, to meet his eye, to hear his voice, perhaps to touch his hand. But now, as she hurried along the pathway thither, it was with a strange mingling of emotions. A large portion of the olden awe and dread, blended with the deep love that from her earliest remembrance brance, had lain far down in her "heart of hearts," and with the oppressive sense of her own unworthyness, that had been engendered by circumstances; while, looming above them all, dark, gloomy, and sullen, rose the terrible thought of death. Death for Mr. Floyd, and death for herself. Perhaps she was voluntarily offering herself up as a sacrifice. Perhaps, unneeded and unsummoned, she was walking into the very mouth of the dark valley. Who could tell?
               But she did not think of turning back. Indeed, I believe that in the exaltation and excitement of the moment, she would have gone on, even if she had known that death lay in waiting for her. She would have gone on as the martyr goes to the stake, or the patriot-soldier to the battle-field.
               But this state of feeling could not last long. There was not enough to sustain it at such a height, and Bessie was ready to smile at it herself, when she arrived at the parsonage, and the ordinary appearance of all things around her recalled her to this every-day, matter-of-fact life again.
               She went round to the kitchen, and entered without knocking.
               There was nobody in the room but Susy Umpstead, Aunt Hetty's maid of all work—and she was kneading bread.
               "Oh, it's you, is it, Miss Bessie?" she said, making a faint, and of course ineffectual effort to clean her hands from the dough. "Come to stay with Aunt Hetty to-night? she will be real glad to see you. Go right along up, if you want to, I shan't get my hands out of this mess in a good while yet."
               But Bessie declined, saying she would stay there in the kitchen until Susy was at liberty to go with her. In a very few minutes, however, they heard steps, and a slight bustle up stairs, and presently Aunt Hetty's voice, calling from the upper hall.
               "Susy! Susy!"
               "Oh, dear me! what shall I do?" said Susy, surveying her hands; "do, Miss Bessie, for mercy's sake, just run up, and see what's wanting."
               Of course Bessie could not refuse, and she accordingly mounted the stairs, rather timidly, we must confess, and feeling like an unbidden guest.
               She paused a moment as she reached the top of the staircase. Aunt Hetty was not in the hall, but she heard voices in the room at the left, the door of which was partly open. Softly approaching it, she stood in the door-way, and was casting a hasty glance round the apartment, when Mr. Floyd perceived her.
               "Here is Bessie," he said, in a low, feeble voice, and extending his hand, as he partly raised his head from the pillow. "Come hither, my child."
               She approached the bedside, trembling from head to foot. It was partly the effect of her previous emotion, partly of her usual timidity, and partly of the wan face of her pastor, so changed since the previous Sabbath. As she drew near he placed his hand upon her head, saying solemnly:
               "May the blessing of Him who said 'They that seek me early shall find me,' be upon thee, Bessie, now and evermore."
               Scarcely conscious of what she did, Bessie sank upon her knees, and burying her face in the counterpane, sobbed aloud.
               Aunt Hetty drew near with a tear in her own eye, and after allowing her to remain as she was for a moment or two, bent over her, and whispered in her ear.
               "Don't, dear child, don't cry so. See, it disturbs Mr. Floyd. Come in the other room with me a minute," and with gentle violence, she drew her from the couch.
               
               As Bessie rose, she cast one glance upon Mr. Floyd's face. It seemed to her so changed, so old—so much older than when she had seen him moving about, attending to his accustomed avocations. His eyes were still raised in the attitude of prayer, his hands were clasped upon his breast, and the long white hair that lay upon the pillow, was scarcely whiter than the brow it shaded.
               Bessie's tears gushed forth afresh, but this time they flowed silently.
               "Oh, will he die, Aunt Hetty?" she whispered, as they reached the adjoining apartment. "Do you think he will die?"
               "I hope not, dear, but he is a very sick man. God knows, and we must leave it all to Him. Mr. Floyd has been as bad once before, since I kept house for him; but he was a great deal younger then. Let's see. It was before you were born, child; it was when Margaret was a baby."
               "It was sixteen years ago, then," said Bessie.
               "Yes, sixteen years this last summer. How the time flies! It seems but a little while, now that I look back upon it," and the good old lady fell into a half dreamy reverie, from which she was soon aroused by the light touch of Bessie's hand.
               "Does Mr. Floyd think he will get well?" she asked.
               "No, dear; he told me, from the very first, that this was his last sickness. But, mercy! we can't judge of it from that," she continued, as Bessie's lip began to quiver again; "he has been in miserable health all summer. But he would keep going and doing till the very last minute. Only last Tuesday he rode up on the mountain to see old Mrs. Shaw, and he was no more fit to go than I am to walk there this very night."
               "What does the doctor say?"
               "He don't say much, but he shakes his head and looks very sober. I know by that he thinks it is a bad case. But you are going to stay with me to-night, Bessie?"
               "Yes, ma'am, if you would like to have me. Margaret couldn't come very well; so mother said that I might come. I don't suppose I shall be a great deal of help to you, Aunt Hetty, but I will do the best I can."
               "Oh, you will do very well, dear; you will do well enough. You see I know Mr. Floyd's ways so well, and just what he wants, and how he wants it, that I can take care of him better than any one else, and easier too, for that matter. But I like to have some one else in the room to run of errands, and that you can do as well as any body. I'm real glad you came over," and Aunt Hetty enforced her words with a kiss.
               "But you wanted something when you called Susy. What was it, Aunt Hetty?"
               "Oh, I wanted her to stay with Mr. Floyd while I was down to fix some cooling drinks for him. He is so thirsty all the time. I'll go now, and you can sit in the other room."
               Mr. Floyd greeted her return with a faint smile, but did not speak. Bessie saw that he wanted nothing, so she sat down quietly by the window. It was now quite dark, so dark that the outline of objects, out of doors, was barely discernable; but there was a small fire burning upon the hearth, enlivening the whole apartment, flinging a ruddy gleam upon the white bed-spread and toilet-cover, and causing a thousand fantastic shadows to play upon the walls and ceiling.
               Bessie watched them silently for awhile. Then, as the fire burned more dimly, she drew the curtains, and lit a lamp that stood upon the mantlepiece.
               She was very anxious to sit up that night, but Aunt Hetty would not permit it.
               "There is no need of it, dear child," she said; "I shall sit up myself, and Joe Blake will sleep on a buffalo-skin out in the hall, so that I can easily speak to him if I want any thing. Go to bed now, and get all the sleep you can, for I shall call you early in the morning."
               The morning came, but Mr. Floyd was no better; on the whole, Aunt Hetty thought he seemed worse. Certainly she needed Bessie's assistance even more than on the previous day.
               "I can stay just as well as not," said Bessie; "I know mother will be willing, and she will not be uneasy, as she knows where I am."
               "She will be over herself this morning," said Aunt Hetty, "and then we will speak to her about it. You are a capital nurse, Bessie—as handy as a woman almost. I would be glad to have you stay just as long as you can."
               It was the Sabbath, a calm, quiet, breathless Sabbath morning. The very leaves hung motionless. Now and then one, dried and withered by the early frosts, fell from the branch that had so long contained it, and fluttered slowly to the ground, while 
                     
                        "The thistle down, the only ghost of flowers,
                        Sailed slowly by, passed noiseless out of sight."
                     
                  
               
               As the hour for service drew near, Mr. Floyd turned restlessly upon his pillow, and often cast uneasy glances toward the window, from which the church with its overhanging trees was distinctly visible. At length the bell tolled solemnly, and a heavy sigh broke from his lips.
               "The elders have not succeeded in finding any one to supply the pulpit to-day," he said; "I grieve to think that the people will be deprived of some portion of their spiritual repast. But I trust they will not forsake the assembling of themselves together, for they can join in prayer and praise even without their pastor's voice to lead them."
               "Now don't you worry about that, Mr. Floyd—not one bit nor grain," replied Aunt Hetty, as, under pretense of excluding the light, she drew the curtain. "I guess they'll get along well enough for one Sunday without a sermon, and, besides, Elder Thomas can read one if he has a mind to."
               "My own soul is hungering and thirsting for the bread of life," said the good old man. "Reach me the Bible and my spectacles, and I will read a chapter."
               "Mr. Floyd!" exclaimed Aunt Hetty, in a tone in which respect, dismay, and anxiety mingled in nearly equal proportions—"Mr. Floyd, you can't read; you are not strong enough, and it will give you such a headache. I dare not let you have the book, sir."
               "Just a few words, Aunt Hetty; just a verse or two," he pleaded.
               With extreme reluctance she brought the spectacles, wiped the glasses for him, placed an additional pillow beneath his head; and then sitting down upon the edge of the bed, supported the large, baise-covered Bible, in a convenient position before him.
               With a trembling hand he turned the leaves, but his head whirled, a blur came over his eyes, and he motioned the book away with a weary sigh.
               "You are right, Aunt Hetty. I can not read," he said. "It is a sore privation, for His word has been my meat and drink these many years. But I would not murmur. God knoweth best;" and closing his eyes, his thin lips moved as if in prayer.
               Bessie sat looking at him, unaware that large tears were gathering in her eyes, until two or three bright drops fell upon her hand. Hastily she wiped them off, and approaching Aunt Hetty, who was sadly putting away the Bible, whispered,
               "I could read to Mr. Floyd, Aunt Hetty, if he would like to have me. Miss Carey says that I read very distinctly."
               "Sure enough," was the reply; "what a dunce I was not to think of it myself. Mr. Floyd," she continued, raising her voice, "Bessie will read for you, if you want her to."
               He assented eagerly.
               "Yes, read to me, dear. It will do me good."
               "Where shall I read, sir?" she asked, after turning the leaves for a while in silence.
               "Any where, dear, any where. It is all good. Turn to the thirty-fourth Psalm, if you like."
               She did so, and for some minutes no sound was heard in the room, save her low, but clear voice, as she read, one after another, the songs of the sweet singer of Israel.
               Miss Carey was right in saying that Bessie read very distinctly; but she might have said more than that. She read with thought and feeling, giving the true emphasis to her words, and controlling the modulations of her voice with unusual skill. To Mr. Floyd's ear it seemed music itself; and presently laying his hand upon the open page, he said,
               "Now turn to 1st Corinthians, my child, and read the fifteenth chapter."
               Just as she was finishing the exulting strain, Mrs. Allison entered the room, and with a look of grateful thanks from Mr. Floyd, she closed the book and put it away.
               Mrs. Allison sat for a couple of hours, condoling with Mr. Floyd, advising Aunt Hetty, and giving a minute account of two or three cases of typhus fever which had fallen under her own immediate observation. Then, as she rose to go, she said,
               "Come, Bessie, you had better go home now, Aunt Hetty has had enough of your assistance by this time, I presume." Aunt Hetty replied before Bessie had time to speak.
               "Oh, no, Mrs. Allison, not by any means. Bessie is a great help to me, and I should miss her very much. If you could spare her a little longer I should be very glad."
               "I shall have no one to read to me, if she goes," said Mr. Floyd. "We can hardly spare her yet, Mrs. Allison."
               "She may stay as long as you wish her to," replied that lady, "if she is any assistance to you. I was fearful she might be in the way."
               So it was arranged that Tom should be sent to the parsonage with a change of clothing for Bessie, and that she should be allowed to remain a few days.
               "Until Mr. Floyd is better," said Mrs. Allison.
               "Or worse," suggested the invalid. "Yet I hope it will be 'better' for me, whatever may be the result of this illness. 'To live is Christ, to die is gain.' 'For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.' 'Thanks be to God which giveth us the victory, through our Lord Jesus Christ.'"
               As the aged minister repeated these passages of Holy Writ, his pale features were illumined by light from within, or rather from above, until those who stood round his bedside could easily have fancied that he had already passed the flood, and gained the further shore.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Long have I mused upon all lovely things;
                           But thou, oh Death! art lovelier than all;
                           Thou sheddest from thy recompensing wings
                           A glory which is hidden by the pall—
                           The excess of radiance falling from thy plume
                           Throws from the gates of time a shadow on the tomb."
                        
                     
                     THOMAS BUCHANAN READ.
                  
               
               A WEEK passed—a long week of anxiety and doubt and dread—and then every heart in Lanmere was saddened by the intelligence that there was scarce any hope of Mr. Floyd's recovery.
               A thrill of sorrow ran through the whole community. All felt as if it was a father or a brother whose life was at stake; all felt that when he who had so long ministered unto them in holy things, should be laid to rest in his own church-yard, one who had loved them long and well would be "debarred from the day."
               He had come there in the full vigor of early manhood. All the energies of a long life had been devoted to their service. Very few of those who first welcomed him to Lanmere were now living, and those few were like himself, old, white-haired men, trembling upon the verge of the grave.
               But to almost every one of the families who now occupied the seats of their dead fathers in the sanctuary, he was bound by ties of no ordinary strength. He had baptized the parents, in many cases, and poured the consecrated water upon the brows of their children also. He had been with them at the bridal, where heart met heart, and hand was clasped in hand, sympathizing with them in their joy, yet mingling high thoughts of heaven and eternity with the deep delight of the present. He had knelt by their beds in sickness, wept over them, prayed for them, watched with them and buried their dead out of their sight. He had been their guide, their counselor, their friend, oftentimes healing their divisions, subduing their animosities, and planting the tree of Peace where that of strife had previously flourished.
               What wonder that they loved him?
               And his kind offices had not been confined entirely to his own peculiar church and people. There was no bigotry, no sectarianism in his piety. He had connected himself with the church of his choice because its doctrines and tenets seemed to him most in accordance with the teachings of Scripture, because its usages and observances were best adapted to his spiritual needs—in short, because he was more at home there than elsewhere, because his spirit said "here have I found my rest."
               But he knew that human judgment is erring and fallible, and he was willing to allow others the same freedom of thought and of opinion which he desired for himself. And this not coldly or as a mere form, but with a heart glowing with brotherly-love, good-will, and charity for all.
               So when it came to pass that there were those in Lanmere whose interpretation of God's word differed in some respects from his own, he did not frown upon or repel them, but bade them God speed. By and by their numbers increased, and another temple was dedicated to the Most High; another gilded vane pointed upward to a brighter world. Then he received the new pastor as a "brother beloved," and welcomed him with a blessing and a prayer as a co-worker in the vineyard of the Lord.
               Not from his own altar alone, ascended the prayers that daily and hourly went up before the Great White Throne, prayers the burden of which was "spare him yet a little longer, oh our God! yet not our will but Thine be done."
               Mr. Floyd suffered but little, but the powers of life seemed slowly wasting away. The fire was nearly extinguished, the lamp had almost burned out. Bessie was with him the greater part of each day, reading to him whenever he was able to bear it, fanning him, moistening his parched lips with the cooling liquids that Aunt Hetty prepared, and hovering round his couch like some ministering spirit. She had no longer any fear of being in the way, of being an intruder. She knew by the welcome that beamed from Mr. Floyd's eye as she entered his room in the morning—Aunt Hetty would not allow her to sit up nights—by the smile, slight, yet sweet, that lingered upon his lip whenever he addressed her, by the gentle and sympathetic glance that so often spoke to her heart when no audible word was uttered, and by many another sign and token, she knew that her presence gave pleasure, that she would be missed if she were away. She began to think that perhaps he really loved her, and to wonder if she had been troubling herself needlessly all these years.
               The thought gave her inexpressible delight, although it was delight strangely blended with the deepest sorrow.
               One day she had been reading to him—reading some of the sublimest passages in Isaiah. As she finished the chapter she noticed that his eyes were closed, and he lay so perfectly motionless, so like a recumbant statue, that she thought he had fallen asleep. Aunt Hetty, who had been up all the previous night, had thrown herself upon a lounge in the adjoining room. The doors were closed so that no sound stole up from the kitchen, and all was silent as the grave.
               Bessie leaned her cheek upon her hand, and gave the reins to thought. Her mind went back to the days of her early childhood. How far they seemed, and yet how near! She thought of her mother and Margaret, and mentally compared the relations existing between them and herself with her own ideas of what they should be.
               "Mother does not love me as Mrs. Wentworth loves Ellen," she thought. "There is no such affection between Margaret and me as between Willie and Ellen. No one loves me as I want to be loved. Is it my fault?"
               But her thoughts soon reverted to Mr. Floyd again. All her life long she had looked upon his friendship, his favor, as a priceless treasure. For years she had deemed it a prize that was beyond her reach, and now, just as it seemed near her, and she was stretching forth her hand to grasp it, the shadow of the grave had fallen upon it, and it was passing from her sight.
               Must it be so? God was good and merciful. Why did He permit the arrows of Death to reach one whose usefulness was still unimpaired, and upon whose lips so many hung for words of instruction, sympathy, and encouragement? Why must Mr. Floyd die, while so many were suffered to live on to whom death would apparently be a blessing, and over whose graves no friend beloved would come to weep? She could not answer these questions, but the large tears rolled slowly down her cheeks, and dropped one by one upon the white counterpane.
               A hand was laid gently on her own.
               "Are these tears for me, my child?"
               She was startled out of her self-possession. Indeed, so busy had been her thoughts, that she hardly knew that she was weeping.
               "Yes, sir—no, sir—that is—oh, Mr. Floyd!" and suffering her head to fall upon the bed, she wept more bitterly than before.
               Mr. Floyd looked silently at the childish figure beside him, while his hand lay heavily amid its locks of golden brown. She was a curious study to him. He was trying to reconcile the present with the past. That she who had so avoided, so shunned him, she who had been so silent and reserved in, his presence, and who had manifested toward him none of the usual tokens of childish attachment, that she should have voluntarily sought his sick chamber and secluded herself there for days and weeks, while her companions stood aloof, and even Margaret, who had ever been loudest in her expressions of affection, feared to come near him, touched him deeply. He began to wonder if he had read her aright; to ask himself if there was not something in the workings of that young heart which he did not fully understand. If those tears were for him—tears which evidently flowed from a deeper source than that of ordinary childish sorrow—there surely was.
               "Bessie," he said, at length, "Bessie, look up, and wipe away your tears, I have something to say to you."
               She attempted to obey him, but the eyelids would droop, the tears would flow.
               "I have been thinking about you a good deal for these last few days, my child," he continued, presently, "and do you know, I am somewhat puzzled."
               Bessie glanced at him for a moment, and he went on, speaking slowly and softly, for he had no strength to spare.
               "If any one had asked me a few weeks ago (perhaps I ought to say months, for there has been a slight change ever since you came to see me about William Wentworth), if any one had asked me whether Bessie Allison had any love for the old man who baptized her when she was a baby, I should have answered, No, not any. But now I hardly believe I could give such an answer as that."
               Bessie made no reply, but her face was buried in her hands, and her frame shook with suppressed emotion.
               "It has troubled me not a little, Bessie, for I wanted a home in the hearts of all my children."
               "Indeed I do love you dearly, Mr. Floyd," she exclaimed, in a voice that was broken by sobs; "and I always have."
               Tenderly did the old minister's trembling hand smooth back the disordered tresses that had fallen over Bessie's tear-stained face. He said nothing, however, for he was waiting for her to say more. He knew by the expression of her lips that something was yet unsaid.
               He did not have to wait long.
               "But I thought you did not like me, Mr. Floyd. I thought you believed me to be a bad, wicked girl, and that you did not want to have any thing to do with me."
               An expression of wonder and astonishment passed over Mr. Floyd's face. He had not the key to her words.
               "Tell me all about it, Bessie," he said, after a moment's pause, during which he had been trying to read the story in her changing countenance. "Tell me all you have been thinking and feeling."
               The ice was broken now, and she did tell him all. She told him of her panic at the children's visit, and of its cause; she told him, in short, all and more than the reader already knows—of her grief because, as she supposed, he did not visit her during her long sickness, and of all that had grieved her since then.
               The story was not told in one long chapter or paragraph, as if she had learned her lesson beforehand, and was merely repeating it. It was rather told by snatches, in detatched and broken sentences; and in many places the mere outline was given, and the filling up left entirely to the imagination or judgment of the listener. Yet when she paused, Mr. Floyd felt that a whole heart-history had been revealed to him.
               He had not spoken, save to ask an occasional question, when she hesitated, or when she did not make her meaning sufficiently clear. But more than once his own lip had quivered, and his eyes grown dim. Aged though he was, his heart had preserved its youth and freshness to the last.
               As she ceased speaking, he extended his arms without a word, and folded her in an embrace as fond and tender as if she had been a beloved daughter.
               "My dear Bessie, my own child," he said at last, "how shall I answer you. We have misunderstood each other strangely, and there is but little time now in which to correct the mistake. But I have loved you always, Bessie. Loved you, in spite of all the coldness and waywardness for which I could not account, but which is now fully explained, better than any other of the lambs of my flock. Do not cry so, my child, but hear me, for my days are numbered, and I shall have but few more opportunities of speaking to you. Neither wife nor daughter have I, Bessie, and here on my death-bed do I bless you for the true and faithful love that you have given me. And may God bless you also, may ho make you early His child, and after you shall have spent a long and happy life, loving and serving Him below, may He call you home to Heaven, where I will be waiting for you."
               He was completely exhausted, and as he uttered the last words his arms fell nervelessly by his side, and at first, Bessie thought that he had fainted.
               But it was not so, and very soon he fell asleep.
               The next day, as Bessie was sitting by his side, as usual, he opened his eyes, and turned suddenly toward her.
               "Do you remember your brother Reuben, Bessie?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Well?"
               "No, sir, not very well. After he went away mother would not let us speak of him, and it is a long time now since I have heard his name mentioned. I was very young, but I loved him dearly."
               "Would you know him if he were not altered?'
               "Oh, yes sir, I think so. But he must have changed."
               "Very much, probably," said Mr. Floyd. "He was older than Margaret?"
               "Yes, sir, but I do not know how much. If he is living he must be almost a man. Oh! I wish he would come back. Though the last time I told mother so she said he was a very bad boy, who did not treat her as he should have done, and that I was wanting in duty to her when I expressed such a wish."
               Mr. Floyd did not reply to Bessie's last words.
               "I wish he would come back too, Bessie," he said; "and unknown to your mother, I have used every means in my power to obtain tidings of him. But without success. Still I believe that if he lives he will yet return, and when he does, do you, at least, receive the wanderer kindly. It is a terrible thing for a boy like him to be roaming the world without friends or home. Love him, Bessie, love him, and try to reconcile him to his mother."
               "Oh, I know I should love him, and I should be so happy if he would only love me!" she replied. "Mother used to say he was just like me, and so I have thought that perhaps he would."
               Those few words betrayed a vast deal to Mr. Floyd, but his strength was gone and he could only add:
               "Well—be kind to him, Bessie, if he ever comes back."
               They had no more conversations, save such as were carried on in the eye's unwritten language. Mr. Floyd was worse the next day, and from that time failed rapidly. He could speak only in whispers, and a word or two at a time.
               The last hour came, and calmly, without a groan or a pang, he exchanged this earthly life, for the life eternal —this vale of tears for the glories of the New Jerusalem.
               Bessie received his last smile, his last sigh, his last look, and then reverently laying down the hand that had clasped hers in dying, she went down stairs to the library, tearless, but pale as a lily.
               She could not yet realize that he had gone, she only felt that she had been borne upward to the very gates of heaven; that if her vision had been but a little clearer she could have seen the Golden City, and the white robed throng; that if her ear had not been quite so dull she might have listened to the harpings and the singing.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Waters on a starry night
                           Are beautiful and fair;
                           The sunshine is a glorious birth;
                           But yet I know, where'er I go,
                           That there hath passed away a glory from the earth.
                        
                     
                     WORDSWORTH.
                  
               
               BESSIE remained at the parsonage until after the funeral. Aunt Hetty wished it, and it was in accordance with her own feelings to do so; but after the last mournful rites were over, and all that was mortal of her aged friend had been committed to the dust, she could not bear to return to the deserted house. So she went home that night, greatly to the delight of Debby, and to the no small pleasure of her mother and sister, who had missed her more than they would have been willing to have admitted.
               But it was long ere she recovered any thing like her former buoyancy of spirits. It was her first great grief, and she bowed beneath the chastening rod, tearfully, it is true, yet with an humble submission to the will of Him who ordereth all things, that might have shamed many who deem themselves far advanced in "the narrow path that leadeth unto life."
               "Bessie has improved wonderfully of late," said Mrs. Allison to Margaret, a few weeks afterward. "She is so much more quiet and circumspect in her behavior. She moves about the house almost as steadily and gravely as you or I do, and I have not seen her dancing and skipping around as she used to, once since she came home. I really begin to have great hopes of her."
               
               It was exactly so, and it was well that the winter term of Miss Carey's school commenced just at that time, and that Mrs. Allison insisted upon Bessie's resuming her studies. For if something had not occurred to have changed the current of her thoughts, Dr. Elliot would have had another patient.
               Ellen Wentworth and Bessie had had only occasional glimpses of each other for several weeks, and they met at the school-room, on the morning of the opening, with great pleasure.
               "You are coming this term, then?" said Bessie, as they made their way to the desks which they considered theirs by right of possession, and began to arrange their books. "I have been so afraid you would not be here to-day."
               "So have I," replied Ellen; "but here I am. We are getting along nicely, Bessie—better than we expected. Mr. Ashley has raised William's salary—not a great deal, to be sure, but every little helps. Then Mr. Millar is going to let us have one of those pretty little houses that he is just finishing, for a lower rent than we pay for the old shell we live in now. And it will be much more convenient for all of us. It is nearer the store, which makes it better for William—nearer the school, which makes it better for me—and mother thinks it will be better for her, on many accounts, to be in this part of the village."
               "Is she sewing for Mrs. Grayson now?"
               "Yes; there is scarcely a week when she does not have more or less to do for her, and for Mrs. Newton. And she does all of Mr. Ashley's sewing. Oh! we are beginning to feel quite independent, Bessie. Mother has partly paid Dr. Elliot, and she says that when that debt is fairly off her mind she shall be quite at her ease."
               "You don't know how glad I am to hear this, Ellen," said Bessie, as she twined her arm about her friend's waist. "The factory has been a bugbear to me ever since you spoke of working in it, and I was so afraid you might be obliged to do so. I want you to go to school just as long as I do."
               Ellen shook her head.
               "It is not very probable that I can," she replied, with a smile that was rather indefinite in its character, being neither exactly glad or exactly sad. "Just as soon as I am competent to teach a small school I must do it, and finish, or rather pursue, my education as I best may. Mother and Willie work very hard, and I am in a hurry to help them."
               "I don't believe they work any harder than you do," said Bessie. "You study harder than any girl in school. Miss Carey said so."
               "No other girl has such powerful inducements. Oh, Bessie! you don't know how pleased mother was when I carried home the French medal. She said the sight of it was ample payment for many a headache and heartache. As for Willie, he acted as if he were bewitched. He wants me to stay here and complete the course of study; but, oh dear me! that is not even to be thought of. If I can manage to remain a year from the time I commenced, I will be very well satisfied. But where did I put my dictionary? Have you seen it, Bessie?" And here the conversation branched off to other subjects.
               Before the first snow had fallen, Mrs. Wentworth and her children removed to Mr. Millar's new house. Very pretty and convenient it was; and while Ellen and Willie were in ecstasies over the cozy little parlor, or sitting-room, neatly painted and papered, and the latticed porch, over which, in imagination, they already saw roses and honeysuckles, and all sorts of flowering vines, flinging their graceful tendrils, Mrs. Wentworth rejoiced in the possession of a good well of water, plenty of closets, and a nice cellar.
               
               "It isn't much bigger than a good-sized bird's nest, that's a fact," said William, after they had put up the two bedsteads and a stove, and arranged things in tolerably good order for the first night. "But it's large enough."
               "Yes," replied his mother, "there is as much room as we need, and if the house were larger we could not afford to hire it. There is a bedroom for you, and one for Ellen and me, a nice sitting-room, and a snug little kitchen, with plenty of cupboards. What more do we want?"
               "Nothing," said Ellen, playfully throwing her arms around her mother's neck as she spoke. "Nothing in the way of house room. But I can think of a good many things that I want. Better furniture, for instance, and books and pictures—a little more leisure for my dear mother, and liberty to throw away her thimble—and ruddier cheeks for Master Willie here. 'Clerking it' doesn't agree with you, brother mine. Do you know it?"
               "I guess it doesn't hurt me, Ellie," he answered. "Your cheeks need pinching to-night. What with study in school, and work of all sorts out, you have quite as hard a time as I. Never mind. One of these days we will play enough to make amends for it all. Mayn't we, mother?"
               We need not give the reply. It was such an one as any loving mother would make under like circumstances, and we may safely leave it to the imagination of the reader.
               The short winter days flew rapidly, and it was late in the month of January before Bessie and Ellen, engrossed as they were by their studies, ceased to speak of the season as having but just commenced. Mrs. Wentworth's new house was situated between the school buildings and Mrs. Allison's. Consequently the two girls seldom failed to enjoy a pleasant walk together, morning and evening. Since Ellen had become a pupil of Miss Carey's, Mrs. Allison had ceased to oppose, although she did not encourage, her intimacy with Bessie. She had good sense enough to know that while they were schoolmates, pursuing the same studies, she could not keep them apart, let her try as she might.
               One pleasant evening about the first of February as they were hurrying homeward, they paused a moment upon the banks of the stream or "creek" which ran through the village, to watch a party of skaters. While they were admiring the graceful evolutions of a part of the band, a sudden cry, and the mingling of many voices, drew their eyes in an opposite direction.
               "Some one has broken through the ice," they exclaimed simultaneously.
               It was even so, and as they hurried toward the spot they perceived the youngest of the boys, a bright little fellow of about ten years, clinging to the irregular, splintered edge of ice that surrounded him.
               His companions were looking on, some in mute dismay, some calling for help, some making ineffectual efforts to approach him, and some endeavoring to cheer him by their voices.
               "It is little Henry Marsh," said Bessie, clasping her hands; "oh, what will become of his poor mother if he should be drowned? He is her only child."
               "Hold on, Henry!" shouted one of the boys. "Can't you lay your hands on the ice and raise yourself out of the water?"
               "No, no!" cried another. "It will not support his weight. Don't you see that the ice is cracked all around him? Hold fast, Henry; the boys will have some long poles here in a minute."
               But the minutes were long; neither ropes nor poles were at hand, the current was swift, and the poor little fellow's fingers were fast becoming completely benumbed by the cold.
               "Oh! he will be drowned! he will be drowned!" cried Ellen. "He can not hold on much longer. There comes William. Willie! Willie!"
               William, who was just going home to his tea, perceived as soon as he turned the corner that some disaster had occurred, and in a moment he was at Ellen's side.
               She pointed to Henry without speaking.
               "Good God!" he exclaimed, tearing off his coat. "Will they let him die before their eyes? Give me your shawls, girls."
               They were in his hands before the words were fairly uttered, and hastily tying them together, he went out upon the ice as far as he dared.
               The girls watched him with breathless anxiety, as he threw one end of his impromptu rope toward the unfortunate boy.
               It was not long enough, and the end fell far from within his reach. He had borne himself bravely until then, looking eagerly round in search of some chance to save himself, and clinging to the ice with a desperate grasp. But as that hope failed the shadow of mute despair passed over his countenance, and one hand slipped from its hold.
               "Never mind, Henry!" shouted William. "Don't let go! I'll save you yet," and pulling off his boots and vest he cautiously drew nearer and nearer.
               Ellen clung to Bessie in silent terror. She was as white as the snow beside her.
               "Take care, William! You will be in yourself," called the eldest of the group of boys. "Hurrah! here come the poles! Now for it!" and they quickly pushed them toward the spot where he was standing. But before he could reach them Henry's stiffened fingers loosened their clasp, and with a faint moan he sank beneath the dark waters.
               William lifted one quick glance to the heavens above him, and darting forward, threw himself into the opening. It was now quite large, for the current was swift, and all the smaller fragments of ice had been swept away.
               There was a moment of unspeakable dread, and then he reappeared, bearing the insensible form of Henry. A glad shout arose from the boys, and from those who had by this time collected upon the shore; but it was hardly time for any very jubilant demonstrations, for the danger was not yet over. He had yet to reach the bank with his unconscious burden.
               There was but one way to do it, for no one could approach near enough to be of any assistance. A small billet of wood lay upon the ice just within his reach, and seizing it he broke his way through the glassy barrier, while supporting Henry with one arm, until he reached a point from which help from the shore could be afforded.
               They were drawn out, amid exultant shouts, earnest thanksgivings, and tears that were born of emotions too powerful to be satisfied with any other form of expression. Henry's widowed mother had heard of her son's danger, and she was there to receive him, and to shower upon his preserver thanks and blessings of which he felt himself utterly unworthy.
               But she was not allowed much time for the indulgence of her gratitude. Blankets were hastily wrapped about their thoroughly-chilled forms, and they were borne to their respective homes, as rapidly as was possible.
               "Run on and tell mother what has happened, Ellen," whispered William to his sister, as she bent over him; "she will be frightened to death if I am taken home in such a plight as this. Nonsense, gentlemen," he continued, struggling to escape from his bearers, "I can walk well enough; there is no need of my being carried."
               But they persisted in carrying him to his mother's gate, where they resigned him to the care of Mrs. Wentworth, who was already watching for them.
               Scarcely a word was spoken until his wet clothes were removed, and he was placed in a warm bed. But after his mother had rubbed his chilled limbs until they were all in a glow, and had seen the last drop of the herb tea that Ellen prepared for him disappear, she leaned her cheek upon his wet locks, and gave free vent to her tears.
               "Why, mother," said William, after he had allowed her to weep silently for a while, "I shall begin to think that you are sorry for what I did. I hoped it would give you pleasure."
               "So it does, my son," she replied, kissing him again and again; "pleasure of the purest kind. You have periled your own life to save that of another, and I glory in the deed. But oh, William, my heart is a mother's heart, and how could I have borne it if you had been brought home to me cold and stark and dead?"
               She shuddered as she spoke, and passed her hand over her eyes, as if to shut out some painful image.
               "Do not think of that, dear mother," was the response, "or, if you can not help it, remember it is from just such a pang that I have saved another mother's heart. Think of poor Mrs. Marsh and of little Henry."
               She did think of them, and many a time that night as she crept softly from her own bed and stole into his room, to be sure that he was sleeping, did she bless God that his own life had not only been preserved, but that he had been made the instrument of preserving the same precious boon for another.
               William was in the habit of rising early, making the fire, and putting on the tea-kettle. Then he usually went to the store, opened the blinds, made the fire there, swept the floor, and dusted the counter. By that time it would be broad daylight, and either Mr. Ashley or one of his brother clerks would have arrived, and he would go home to his breakfast.
               But this morning—that is, the morning after the skating adventure, when he attempted to rise, he found that the herb-tea and the rubbing had not produced the desired effect. He was stiff and sore, his limbs ached, and it was with great difficulty that he succeeded in dressing himself, and creeping down stairs. He attempted to take some wood from the box, but his head whirled, and after a moment's consideration, he stepped to the door of his mother's bedroom, opened it gently, and called Ellen in a low whisper.
               "Ellen, get up and come here. Don't wake mother."
               In an incredibly short space of time—so it seemed to William—Ellen was by his side.
               "I don't feel very well this morning, sister," he said, as he returned her affectionate embrace; "can you make this fire?"
               "I fancy I can," she replied, with a smile. "But what is the matter, Willie?"
               "Nothing more than a cold, I presume. But I believe I will not go out this morning, if you will carry a line to Mr. Ashley's boarding-place for me. It is too bad to ask it of you, though; for if the windows tell the truth, it is very cold."
               "Go write it while I make this fire," said Ellen, playfully pushing him toward the sitting-room door; "it must go early, I suppose?"
               "Yes, right away—before breakfast—for Mr. Ashley expects me to open the store."
               "Well, I will have a fire here in half a minute, and then I will go. You must write only a word or two in that cold room, Willie. It is far colder than the kitchen. Here," she added, seeing the evident difficulty with which he moved toward the door, and drawing a large chair up to the table as she spoke, "sit down here, and let me wrap this blanket around you, so. There! now I'll bring you pen, ink, and paper in just no time at all. Now write your note, sir."
               "You are very peremptory, Miss Ellen," was the laughing response; "but you have made a perfect mummy of me. How am I to write with my hands muffled up in this fashion? Come and unroll me, if you wish me to obey you."
               He was speedily "unrolled," and wrote the note to his employer, asking leave of absence for a day or two; little dreaming that he had made his last visit to the store in the capacity of clerk.
               But so it was. The next day he was so much worse, suffering from extreme pain in his right knee, that his mother feared to trust longer to merely domestic remedies, and summoned Dr. Elliot.
               "This is likely to be a more serious affair for you than for little Henry Marsh," said the doctor, after examining his limb. "I saw him to-day, and he was as brisk as a bee. Your knee seems badly bruised, and here there has evidently been a slight puncture. Had you injured it in any way previous to going into the water?"
               "Not that I am aware of," was the reply. "I have an indistinct recollection of having struck my knee against something—either a piece of ice or a stone, I should judge, as I plunged into the water. But I felt no pain at the time, and indeed had quite forgotten it."
               "That is it, without doubt. Certain philosophers, you are aware, my young friend, maintain that the seat of pain is the mind; which will account for its absence in this case. Your mind was just then at the bottom of the creek, where Henry was lying, I suspect."
               "Is the injury a severe one, doctor?" asked Mrs. Wentworth, anxiously; "is it likely to be permanent?"
               "I trust not, madam," he replied, with professional suavity; "but it is difficult to judge of these things. I should advise your son to keep perfectly quiet, and to absent himself from the store for several weeks, at least. We will try the effect of this liniment for a few days before resorting to more active treatment. Apply it three times a day, shaking it well before using. Good-evening, madam—good-evening, all. I will call again to-morrow," and he bowed himself out, leaving aching hearts behind him. Mrs. Wentworth had seen him so often by the bed of sickness, that she could read his countenance perfectly, and was as well aware that he anticipated trouble as if he had said so.
               It has been said that we never fail to derive a certain faint pleasure from the misfortunes of even our very best friends. But had the cynic who uttered the sentiment been in Lanmere a few weeks afterward, when it began to be whispered about that William Wentworth was probably a cripple for life—that he would never be able to step without the aid of a crutch, he would have had reason to question its truth. The intelligence was received with one general burst of sorrow.
               "He is such a fine young man," said one, "so active and energetic."
               "And so modest and sensible," said another. "He has so much self-respect that he never forgets what is due to others."
               "He is the 'only son of his mother, and she a widow,'" sighed a third; "what a terrible blow!"
               "I declare I e'en a'most wish it had been me, instead o' him," said old Mr. Smith, blowing his nose. "Here I've been a hobbling 'round with my staff these twenty years, and I ain't able to dew nothin' for myself nor nobody else. I might just about as well ha' been laid up as not. And here I be, a trottin' round jest as usual, and that spry youngster, who was as smart as a steel-spring, can't stir a peg. Jest think on't, now."
               "If he'd only let the pizen doctor stuff alone," said Mrs. Peabody, "jest throw it all to the dogs, and try my bitter-sweet intment, he'd be round in less than no time. I'll carry up some to Mrs. Wentworth this very night."
               "And it's all on my account," sobbed little Henry Marsh, as he leaned his head on his mother's shoulder; "all because I broke through the ice, and he was so good and jumped in after me."
               "How can we ever repay him?" responded Mrs. Marsh, wiping away the tears that were slowly trickling down her cheeks. "They are poor, and so are we, but, Henry, remember as long as you live, that you can not do enough to prove your gratitude. If I could only prove mine by restoring what he has lost!"
               "God's will be done," said Mrs. Wentworth, with a quivering lip, and William and Ellen tried hard to echo her words.
               But it was a difficult task. The petition, "If it be possible, oh my Father, let this cup pass from me," was more easily uttered.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Ros.
                           What did he, when thou saw'st him? What said he? How looked he? Wherein went he? What makes he here? Where remains he? How parted he with thee, and when wilt thou see him again? answer me in one word.
                        
                        
                           Cel.
                           To say ay and no to these particulars is more than to answer in a catechism.
                        
                     
                     AS YOU LIKE IT.
                  
               
               "WHAT is the matter, Debby?" asked Bessie, one Sunday morning in April, as she was passing through the kitchen; "what's the trouble?"
               "Oh, dear, I don't know, hardly. Somehow or 'nuther I've got dreadfully belated this morning, and I was a calculatin' to go to meetin' to hear the new minister. I guess it's too late, now."
               "Oh, no, it is not. The first bell hasn't rung yet. Here, let me wipe these cups and saucers for you. You've got time enough."
               "Now, Bessie, you just let that dishwiper be. You'll spile your frock. Put it down, I say;'t ain't no matter whether I go or not. Your mother would have a fit if she should come in and catch you a wipin' dishes with that bran new silk dress on. You look as pretty as a pink in it, any way."
               Bessie smiled. What young girl (or old one, either, for that matter) was ever sorry to be told that her new dress was becoming, and that she herself was looking well, if she had good reason to believe that the words were spoken honestly and sincerely?
               "There goes the bell!" said Debby, pettishly, a minute afterward; "ring away, do—I hear ye. I guess I won't try to go this forenoon."
               
               "Oh, yes, Debby!" replied Bessie, putting the last coffee-cup into the cupboard; "I'll run up to your room, and lay out your things for you. You'll wear your brown gingham, won't you? You will be ready in good season, after all. Margaret isn't quite dressed yet," and away she flew, to take Debby's well-preserved Sunday-bonnet from the bandbox, to fold the drab-silk shawl that was among her choicest possessions, to bring together dress, and shoes, and gloves, and handkerchief, so that she need lose no time in going for them. Debby's transient ill-humor vanished, when she mounted the stairs, entered her little chamber, and found every thing she needed for the day neatly arranged upon the bed.
               "Bless the child!" she muttered, as she drew on her stockings; "I like 'em all. Mis' Allison is a fust-rate woman to live with—I haven't no fault to find with her, so far as I am concerned, and Margaret is 'most allers good to me. But, after all, I shouldn't know what to do if 't wasn't for Bessie—she's so kinder lovin' and thoughtful like,"
               Debby was not the only one who was anxious to go to church that day to hear the new minister. There was scarce a house in Lanmere which did not send forth some and in many cases all of its inmates. The old church was crowded, pews, aisles, and galleries.
               It must not be supposed that Mr. Floyd's pulpit had remained vacant all this time, for it was far otherwise. It had been occupied every Sunday, but by transient guests; "comers and goers," they were styled by Debby. When Mr. Floyd became aware that his days were numbered, he sent for the elders and principal members of his church, that he might consult with them about the future. It was a sad meeting. Those who gathered round his couch that day loved him as if he had been their father; and though they felt that he was taken "like a shock of corn fully ripe;" although they knew that his pilgrimage had been a long one, and that he was now ready 
                     
                        "To lay his staff and sandals down
                        For the victor's palm and the monarch's crown;"
                     
                   yet ties that had been the growth of a lifetime could not be severed without a pang.
               "Of course," he said, "I do not wish to dictate concerning my successor. But I know of no one who is so well suited for the place, no one who is so exactly what you need as Mr. Warren—Mr. Paul Warren. Some of you are already acquainted with him. I have known him from his boyhood, and I knew his father before him. He was a good man and true, and his mantle has fallen upon his son. I could close my eyes in peace if I were sure that my flock would find a shepherd as faithful as Paul Warren."
               They did not forget his words; and when his voice was hushed forever, and his venerated form was buried out of their sight, their eyes, and the eyes of the whole community turned toward Mr. Warren. He was, personally, a stranger to most in the church, but there were a few who already knew and prized him, and by reputation he was known to them all. We will not dwell upon the consultations, the call, and the acceptance. Suffice it to say that he was to preach his first sermon in Lanmere that day, and that the installation was to take place on the Thursday following.
               To Mrs. Allison's great regret she awoke that Sunday morning with a severe headache, and soon after breakfast was forced to admit that she was not able to attend church. But when Margaret and Bessie returned at noon, they found her in the sitting-room awaiting their arrival.
               
               "Now, lay off your bonnets, and tell me all about it," she said. "How did you like him, Margaret? Will he make Mr. Floyd's place good? I did so want to go to church and judge for myself!"
               "I like him very much," said Margaret—" very much indeed—a great deal better than Mr. Floyd."
               "Oh, Margaret! how can you say so?" exclaimed Bessie, in a voice that trembled in spite of herself.
               "Because it is the truth. Mr. Floyd never preached as fine a sermon as the one Mr. Warren gave us today."
               There were traces of tears on Bessie's cheek, and her mother looked at her earnestly.
               "How did you like the sermon, Bessie?"
               "Well enough, ma'am. It was a very good one, I should think."
               "I do not believe you heard three words that Mr. Warren said," said Margaret. "I doubt whether you can even tell where the text was." Then, turning to her mother, she added, "She did nothing but cry the whole morning. I saw Mr. Warren looking at her several times, and he must have thought it very strange,"
               "Strange indeed!" said Mrs. Allison; "and this his first sermon. What was you crying for, Bessie?"
               "I was thinking about Mr. Floyd, mother," she replied, "and I could not help it. I thought how many times I had seen him in that pulpit and beside that altar, and how often he had turned the leaves of that Bible, and it seemed to me that I could hear his voice and see his smile. The tears would come, mother, though I tried to keep them back."
               "You did not try as hard as you might have done, I imagine," rejoined Mrs. Allison. "It is wrong, it is sinful for you to allow your feelings to run away with you in this manner. And, besides, it is ridiculous. Mr. Floyd has been dead more than six months, and your tears seem rather out of season. They savor of affectation."
               "I always knew you were a queer girl, Bessie," said Margaret; "but I never saw any thing in you that was half as strange as the way you have gone on about Mr. Floyd. You never seemed to care for him in the least until after he was taken sick. Then nothing would do but you must go and help nurse him, and when he died you made as much fuss as if he had been your own father. It is a pretty hard matter to keep track of you, and to understand your likes and dislikes."
               "You need not try to understand them," said Bessie, choking back the tears that were just ready to flow; "nobody wishes you to. Mr. Floyd understood all about it, and I do not care what others think. I felt as if his spirit were hovering over us in the church to-day, and if it was, he knew that there was no affectation in my sorrow."
               "What romantic nonsense, Bessie! It is really not worth noticing," said Mrs. Allison. "Go up stairs—bathe your face, and smooth your hair. You do not look fit to go to afternoon service. Get my bonnet for me, Margaret, and my shawl. My head is better, and I think I will go with you."
               Bessie went to her room that evening as soon as she returned from "five o'clock meeting." She was both weary and sad, and, throwing on a loose wrapper, she sat down by the window, and leaned her cheek against the pane.
               Why is it that in moments of sadness and lassitude our thoughts go backward rather than forward? Is it that at such times the spiritual eye is too dim to pierce the dark recesses of the coming years? Is it because we have not sufficient strength to breast the waves of doubt and uncertainty that are ready to roll upon us? Because we find the changeless calm and quiet of the dead past, more in accordance with our weakness than is the quick pulse of the living present, or the eager, exulting tread of the young future? Who can tell?
               Bessie sat there for a long time that evening, sometimes mentally tracing the path that she had been treading for fifteen years, sometimes lost in a vague, dreamy reverie. But the retrospect and the reverie were alike profitless, resulting solely in the somewhat saddening conviction that she was less happy than when she was a "wee bit of a girl," playing with dandelions and buttercups.
               On the whole, it was with a feeling of relief that she heard Debby's heavy footstep on the stairs. The next moment the door swung slowly open.
               "May I come in a minute?" asked the owner of the footsteps. "I ain't a mite sleepy, so I thought I'd drop in as I was goin' by, and see if you did n't want a light or something. Don't you want a piece o' pie or cake before you go to bed? We had tea real early to-night."
               "No, I thank you, Debby, I am not hungry. Come in and sit down, if you are not going to bed yet. We do not need a lamp, the moon is so bright."
               "No more we don't. I can't stop but a minute or two, but I'll just blow mine out, and set it down in the hall. Well, I liked the new minister fust rate—didn't you, Bessie?"
               "I liked him very well," was the reply.
               "But, somehow," continued Debby, "his bein' so much younger'n Mr. Floyd, made it seem jest as if he wasn't nothin' more'n a boy. He talked real smart, though. I guess he knows enough. Mrs. Warren looked to me as if she was as much as five years older than her husband."
               "Mrs. Warren? Oh, that lady was Mr. Warren's sister, not his wife, Debby. He is not married."
               "Ain't he? I s'posed he was, just as much as could be. And that's his sister, eh? Is she going to keep house for him?"
               "So I heard mother say. Aunt Hetty is going to live in that little brown cottage on the hill."
               "I should ha' thought they might ha' let her staid to the parsonage," said Debby. "Only just them two, and so much room as they've got. 'T wouldn't ha' been no more'n polite to have given her the chance, any how."
               "They did," was the reply. "Mr. Warren invited her to remain as long as she pleased. So she told me yesterday. But she thinks she would rather keep house."
               "Well, I don't blame her one whit," said Debby, bringing her closed hand down upon her knee, to give emphasis to her words, "not one whit. She'll be better off by herself. Young folks has their ways, and old folks has theirn, and't ain't no ways likely that they'd hitch. Mr. Floyd looked out for Aunt Hetty, didn't he, though? Willed her all the furniture, and money enough to support her as long as she lives, besides."
               "Yes, she is well provided for. Mr. Floyd thought a great deal of her."
               "And well he might. He might ha' gone the hull world over and not found any body that could ha' done as well by him as she did. But, mercy," added Debby, as she sprang to her feet, "I mustn't sit here a-talking all night. To-morrow is washing-day, and I've got to be up bright and airly. So, good-night to ye, Bessie. Don't you be a-settin' up there much longer. Moonlight 's on-healthy, I've heard say."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXI.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Let us be patient! These severe afflictions
                           Not from the ground arise,
                           But oftentimes celestial benedictions
                           Assume this dark disguise.
                        
                     
                     LONGFELLOW.
                  
               
               A CRIPPLE for life! Could it be? Had he heard aright? Surely his ears had deceived him. He repeated the words again and again. Crippled—crippled for life! How often had he heard those words before—how often had he uttered them—yet with how slight an appreciation of their meaning! Crippled for life!
               William Wentworth bowed his head upon his thin, pale hands, as he said, yet another time, Crippled for life!
               What did it mean? The soft, spring wind stole in at the open window, laden with ten thousand sweets; the brook, released from its icy chain, was dancing blithely onward, singing as it went. As he looked away off beyond the meadow and the wheat-field, he could see the stately forest-trees swaying and bending as the breeze swept by. He could hear the rustling of the tall pines, and the whispering of the young leaves. The winter grain lay fresh and green upon the hill-tops; the grass was springing by the road-side and in the lane; birds were darting hither and thither, and the bob-o'-link, which had built its nest in the shadiest corner of the yard, was "pouring boasts from his little throat" all day long. Every thing in the outer world was bright and fresh and joyous; the "yearly miracle" was completed—the new heaven and earth were created.
               Upon him alone a blight had fallen—and such a blight! What to him were the springing grass and the swaying trees? Last spring, in all the vigor of youth and health, he had bounded over the meadows, rejoicing in each tiny spire and blade. Last spring he had lain within those dim old woods—those temples not made with hands—and had listened reverently while from tree, and shrub, and flower, went up one glad, harmonious anthem to the living God. Now, fettered and bound by an invisible power, held captive by a hand he could not see, he was indeed a prisoner imprisoned for life!
               Months hence, it was possible, so the doctor said, that he would be able to move about a little with the aid of a crutch, but he could give him no other hope, no further encouragement.
               It was very, very terrible. Sometimes he thought that death would be preferable. He might linger on helpless, useless, dependent upon others even for his daily bread, for years and years. Yes, he was very sure he would rather die—die now, before the world (his little world) was tired of him.
               His mother and Ellen! But with the thought of them came a pang so keen and sharp that it almost took away his breath. What would become of them? how were they to live? He had built such castles in the air for them, he had dreamed such dreams of the home he would create by his own industry—the home which, though it might perhaps be small and poor at first, should be adorned and beautified as the years went by, the home where his mother should say of her last days that they were more blessed than her first, and where Ellen released from the care and toil that had so shadowed her young life should move about in the calm beauty of early womanhood.
               And now—!
               
               He was very thin and very pale. For many weeks his suffering had been intense, and as he sat by the window that bright spring-morning, he seemed but the shadow of his former self. Yet he was recovering, and it was probable that ere the summer was over, his general health would be as good as it had ever been.
               Thus far, Mrs. Wentworth had taken but little "thought for the morrow." "Sufficient unto the day" had been "the evil thereof." William's illness had completely engrossed her, to the exclusion of almost every other care or interest.
               The neighbors had been very kind, indeed the villagers had vied with each other in the bestowal of their favors and attentions. Had he been the son of the wealthiest man in the town, he could have had no better care. The large chair in which he was reclining, the back of which could be raised or lowered at pleasure, had been procured for him by half a dozen of those who could easily devote a few dollars to such a purpose and never miss them. The cashmere double-gown, with its nicely quilted lining, which lay in such soft, rich folds about his wasted form, had belonged to Mr. Floyd; and Aunt Hetty had brought it, saying that she knew she was making such a disposition of it as would have best pleased him had he been living. Mr. Ashley had visited him almost every day, and had paid him a quarter's salary in advance, and many a dainty and luxury, such as only abundant means can procure, had found their way to his table. He had risked his life for another, and by so doing had brought upon himself this dire calamity; and those who were acquainted with the facts felt it to be not only a pleasure but a duty to do all in their power to alleviate his sufferings.
               Ellen had been obliged to leave school, and devote herself wholly to her mother and William. No one knew, not even those who best loved her, what a trial it was to give up her dearly loved studies, with but little hope of ever being able to resume them again under equally favorable auspices. Not a word or a look ever caused her brother to feel that her heart bled for her own sorrows as well as for his. Serenely and cheerfully she took up her burden and walked steadily onward.
               Mr. Millar had kindly sent a man with a team the day before, saying that he thought perhaps Mrs. Wentworth would like to have the bit of ground back of the house, plowed for a garden. She had gladly assented, and that morning with Ellen's assistance, she was laying out the beds, and planting the seeds. So it happened that William was left alone, alone with his sad thoughts and dismal fancies, alone to brood over his changed prospects and blighted hopes.
               It was the first time that such a thing had happened since his illness. Either his mother or his sister had been with him constantly. And even now the door opened every few minutes and one or the other stole to his side, to see if he needed any thing; to speak a loving word or two, or at least to leave a kiss upon his forehead and then away again. Often, too, Ellen came bounding in with a paper of seeds in her hand, to ask his advice as to the division of the ground, how much space should be allotted to peas, how much to cabbages, how many rows of beets they would require, or how many hills of sweet corn.
               "I wonder if these are really water-melon seeds," she said, untying a small paper which was not labeled. "Bessie gave them to me the other day. I'll go and ask William."
               "Let me see them," replied Mrs. Wentworth, "I can tell."
               But Ellen was already half way to the house, and the only answer she gave her mother was a bright glance and a half smile. Her object was not so much to obtain information as to lead her brother's thoughts gardenward.
               Her kind stratagem was not very successful, however. William answered her seriously, expressing his firm conviction that they were water-melon seeds, and then his face resumed its old look of sad—it could hardly yet be called patient endurance. Ellen went back to her work, crushing a bright drop or two which had gathered upon her dark lashes.
               In five minutes she was back again.
               "Willie, could you help me a little? Do you feel well enough? Here are five or six kinds of beans, limas, string-beans, butter-beans, and I don't know what besides, all mixed. They were put up in separate papers, but the strings must have loosened. If you could only assort them for me, while I am planting the cucumbers."
               He took the basket eagerly.
               "Yes, I can do it well enough," he said, gathering up a handful and letting them drop slowly through his fingers. "But you are not going to plant all these? Bring me three or four saucers, will you, Ellen?"
               She brought the saucers.
               "Oh no, not all of them. But they had better be assorted, and then I can tell what I want and what I do not want. I will be in after them in a short time," and away she went again, satisfied that for a few moments, at least, William would have something to think of besides his lameness.
               But he quickly accomplished his task, and then pushing the basket away from him, he leaned his head wearily back upon the soft cushions of his chair, while his eye wandered off through the open window over the broad expanse of woodland and meadow. The plowmen were whistling at their work, the laborers busy in the field. He heard the quick, sharp blows of the carpenter who was shingling the new building just round the corner, while from the blacksmith's shop on the opposite street there came at once a shower of sparks and a shower of sound, as the anvil groaned beneath the weight of the heavy sledge, wielded by the powerful arm of the strongest man in the village. A troop of boys with paper caps in which the tail-feathers of their handsomest roosters did good service in lieu of plumes, red flannel sashes and wooden swords, were marching pompously around the square to the rub-a-dub-dub of a little fat drummer, and in front of the school-house half a dozen of their elder brothers were balancing themselves on stilts. All were busy, either at work or play, all but he.
               And there he lay—helpless, inefficient—a burden to others—a burden to himself—crippled for life! Why must it be? What had he done that he must be thus afflicted? If he had only died it would have been so much better!
               William said but little about himself, one way or another. He seldom gave any audible expression to the despairing sorrow that was wearing his life away. Yet his mother and Ellen read it all, read it in the changed expression of his once bright and animated face, in the listless folding of his hands, in the drooping languor of his mien. How did they strive to cheer and encourage him! How did they force themselves to smile when the fountain of tears was full even to overflowing! How bravely did they speak of the future while their hearts were sinking within them!
               "Well, Ellen," said Mrs. Wentworth one evening after William had gone to sleep, and they had taken their sewing and the one candle into the kitchen, lest they should disturb him, "Well, what is to be done?"
               Ellen shook her head ruefully, though a faint smile played over her features.
               
               "I have been expecting that question for several days. It is high time that something was done."
               "Yes—but what?"
               "The factory?" suggested Ellen.
               "No, no, my child, not until every thing else has been tried and found wanting. Girls do not receive high wages in the factories here, but that is the least of my objections. The overseers in both establishments are coarse, ignorant, vulgar men, with whom I could not bear you to have any thing to do, and your co-workers would be men and women, or girls and boys, of a class with whom you have nothing in common. I am not speaking of factories in general, but of those in Lanmere."
               "I am not afraid of contamination," said Ellen, quietly. "I think I could take care of myself, mother."
               "I do not doubt it, my daughter. But as I said once before, we will look upon the factories only as a last resource. What next?"
               "Our needles?"
               "A poor dependence, but better than nothing. I shall use mine as steadily as may be. You can do better, I think."
               "How?"
               "By opening a school."
               "Oh, mother! I am so young," exclaimed Ellen, deprecatingly, "and I don't know enough either. If I could only have gone to school myself a year or two longer, I should then have had courage to think of teaching."
               "But something must be done, my dear child. Make a better suggestion, if you can."
               Ellen tried, but in vain, and ere long their thoughts came round to the school again.
               "I do not know but I will have to try it," she said, timidly. "But where can I find a school-room?"
               "Here, in this very spot," said Mrs. Wentworth. "I presume Mr. Millar would have no objections. At all events it would do no harm to ask him."
               Ellen looked around rather dubiously.
               "Not a great deal of spare room," she remarked, after a pause. "Where would you put the cooking-stove?"
               "Out in the wood-shed for the present, while the weather is warm. When it grows colder we will put it in the sitting-room."
               "And how is it about seats?"
               "When the old brick school-house was sold at auction Mr. Ashley bid off some of the seats—all that were in the lower room, I believe—for a mere song. I have no doubt that he would either sell them to you, or allow you to use them, at a very reasonable price. We have but to clear this room out entirely, put up some light curtains at the windows, and arrange the seats, and behold! here is as pleasant a school-room as there is in Lanmere."
               Ellen laughed.
               "You seem to have it all planned out, mother. But now will you please tell me where my scholars are to come from?"
               "Why, from Lanmere."
               "Of course. I do not expect to open a boarding-school yet a while. But who will have confidence enough in my ability to teach, to be willing to place their children under my charge? I am nothing but a child myself, mother."
               "You are very young yet, I know, my dear Ellen; but in some respects you have outgrown your years. Miss Carey, I am sure, will give you all the assistance in her power, and allow you to use her name as a reference. I do not apprehend that you will have any difficulty in procuring scholars, and you had better confine yourself strictly, for the first year or two, to little girls under ten years of age."
               
               Ellen's face brightened a little.
               "If I can only do that, mother, I shall get along well enough; and I will do the best I can, for poor Willie's sake and for yours, if not for my own. When shall I open my school?"
               "The sooner the better. Say one week from to-morrow. Is that the last of Mr. Newton's shirts?"
               "Yes, mother. The other five are done, and I have only to put in this pair of sleeves and make the buttonholes. I began them last January, before Willie was taken sick. Oh, dear! what sad changes there have been since then!" and, in spite of her efforts to restrain them, two or three tears fell upon her work. They fell for her brother, however, not for herself.
               "I will do them up to-morrow, after you have finished that one; and when you carry them home, you can speak to Mrs. Newton about the school. I presume she will be glad to send Alice and Carry. When was Dr. Elliot here last?"
               "The day before yesterday."
               "Then he will be here again to-morrow, and I must ask him for his bill. It will be a heavy one, for he has been here almost every day, and sometimes twice a day, since about the first of February. I tremble to think of it."
               "Why need you be in such a hurry to call for it?" asked Ellen, with a scarcely-defined wish to put afar off the evil day.
               "Because I want to know the worst, so that we can make our calculations accordingly. And besides, do you not see that it troubles William? He told me the other day that he wished the doctor would not come so often; and I knew, though he did not say so, that he was thinking of the expense."
               "If we could only contrive to pay the bill before he knew any thing about it," said Ellen. "But that will hardly be possible."
               Her voice trembled, and she bent her head lower and lower, while her needle remained stationary. She could not see where to place it. Mrs. Wentworth drew her daughter gently to her side, and folded her arms about her.
               "What is the matter with you, to-night, my dear child? I have often thought you were far braver than I. But this evening you are much less sanguine than usual. Are you keeping from me any thing that has occurred to sadden you, in order to avoid giving me pain? You have done that more than once, Ellen, and so has Willie."
               "Oh no, mother, no," she replied, clasping her arms about her neck as she spoke. "It is nothing, only I am weak and foolish. I am so sorry for Willie and for you. You had only just paid Dr. Elliot's other bill, and now—"
               She paused for a moment, while her tears literally choked her utterance, and then went on, in a very low voice,
               "I do not know but I am wicked, mother, but it is so hard for me to reconcile these things with the idea of God's protecting care over and love for his children. It seems so strange that Willie should be thus rewarded for a good and noble deed; so hard that saving the life of another should be the means of causing him such agony as he has already undergone, and of blighting all his hopes of future happiness and usefulness."
               "'What I do thou knowest not now, but thou shalt know hereafter.' Let that suffice, dear Ellen. We have the assurance that all things shall work together for our good; and I have not the slightest doubt that the day will yet come when your dear brother will be able to look backward along the pathway of life, and see and feel that all is indeed of God—ordered by Him for our best good, temporal as well as spiritual. Your house is founded upon a rock, my child, and I have had great confidence that Willie's stood upon the same foundation; and though the floods come and the rains beat upon them, they shall not be moved. See that your faith fail not."
               "I know all this, mother, but it is so difficult to feel, to realize it. The house has reeled and tumbled so within the last few weeks, that it has seemed as if the foundation itself would give way, even though it was harder and firmer than adamant."
               "It will not, Ellen, if you will but trust in Him who has said, 'My grace is sufficient for you.' But you are worn with care and fatigue, my child, and often our bodies are accountable for much of wrong and weakness that we charge to the soul. 'The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.' Go to bed, dear, and after a night's rest you will feel better, I'll warrant."
               The next day Dr. Elliot called, as he had promised, and according to her intention, Mrs. Wentworth asked him for his bill.
               "Oh, I had nearly forgotten," he said, opening his pocket-book, and taking from it a folded paper. "I intended to have given this to you to-day, but I should have forgotten it if you had not put me in mind of it."
               Mrs. Wentworth took the paper—a little surprised and hurt, if we must own the truth, to find that the bill was already drawn up—and opened it, mechanically. She hardly dared glance at the amount.
               Perhaps the doctor noticed her momentary trepidation, for he presently added, with a smile,
               "You need give yourself no uneasiness about that matter, my dear Mrs. Wentworth. You will perceive that the bill is receipted."
               "Yes, but, doctor, it may be sometime before—"
               "I understand, my dear madam," said the good doctor, rubbing his hands, delightedly. "I understand, and I repeat that you need give yourself no uneasiness. That is a bonâ fide receipt, madam—the genuine article—no humbug about it."
               "But, doctor, I can not permit—"
               "Can't help yourself, my dear madam. No more can I. I've had my pay, every cent of it, and of course I receipted the bill. What else could I do?"
               Mrs. Wentworth looked from the bill to the doctor, and from the doctor to the bill.
               "What can I say to you, doctor? I have no words—"
               "Don't need any, madam, not in the least. I can guess all you would like to say, but the trouble is, I am not the right listener. I repeat I have had my pay, and not, as I see you suppose, merely in thanks and good wishes. If you would like to know who has had the impudence to meddle with your affairs, this paper will tell you. I drew up the list, thinking you might have some curiosity about it. Good-morning, madam, good-morning. I shall do myself the pleasure of calling to see how your son is getting along, occasionally—as a friend, however, not as a physician."
               For a few moments after he left, Mrs. Wentworth stood motionless, lifting up her heart in silent gratitude to God. Then she glanced at the slip of paper. It contained, perhaps, a dozen names; some belonging to acquaintances, but for the most part those of personal strangers, who had chosen this method of testifying their sympathy and regard.
               With a swelling heart the mother carried both the bill and the list of names into the other room, and laid them, with a brief explanation, before her son. It is needless to say that they mingled their tears and their thanksgivings, and that it was long before they ceased to make mention in their prayers of those who had thus kindly remembered the widow and the fatherless.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Come, stir, stir, stir! the second cock hath crowed,
                           The curfew bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock:—
                           Look to the baked meats, good Angelica:
                           Spare not for cost.
                        
                     
                     ROMEO AND JULIET.
                  
               
               "ARE you going to sleep all day, Bessie? Do get up. The sun is half an hour high."
               Bessie rubbed her eyes a moment, and looked wonderingly at Margaret.
               "What's the matter?" she asked. "Is any one sick? You are not usually up until an hour after sunrise. What made you wake so early?"
               "Why, you know as well as I do," replied Margaret, "that we are to have company to-day. Come! hurry! We must have breakfast out of the way just as soon as possible."
               "Oh, yes! I had forgotten. Mr. Warren and his sister. Has mother invited any one else, Margaret?"
               "No. But don't lie there talking. Get up and dress yourself, quick."
               "I will be ready by the time breakfast is. But what is your particular hurry, Margaret? Any body would think we were expecting the whole town to dine with us."
               "There is no reason for thinking so, I'm sure," said Margaret, pettishly, as she turned to leave the room. "But it is just as much trouble to prepare dinner for two people as for half a dozen."
               "You have not to prepare it, if it is," was the laughing response. "Debby will see to that."
               "There is something to be done besides merely cooking the meats. But don't hurry yourself on my account. I don't care whether you get up to-day or not, I'm sure."
               Bessie sprang from the bed, and flinging her arms around her sister's neck, kissed her before she had time to escape. Margaret looked as if she would have been glad to have done so if she could.
               "Don't be angry with me, Margaret, I was only in sport. I did not mean any thing by what I said—only to tease you a little. I will be ready to go down in just ten minutes."
               In less time than that she was in the breakfast-room, where the coffee and toast were not.
               "Seems to me you're in a dreadful hurry this morning, girls," said Debby, coming in at last with the steaming urn; "Margaret was down a-hurrying me when I hadn't got the fire much more'n started; and Bessie's been a standin' there, drummin' on the winder, 'till I'm near about crazy. When you want breakfast airlier'n common, why don't you let a body know the night afore-hand? Mis' Allison ain't ready yet, that's one comfort."
               Margaret compressed her lips, but said nothing, while Bessie seated herself very demurely at the table, and unfolded her napkin. Mrs. Allison at last made her appearance, and the business of the morning proceeded.
               "Mr. and Miss Warren will spend this day with us, if nothing unforeseen prevents," said she as she pushed back her coffe-cup, making the announcement with as much formality and precision as if both girls had been ignorant of the fact announced. "Bessie, I wish you to attend to the arrangement of the parlors. They do not need sweeping. Dust the furniture carefully, and see that every thing is in order. Margaret, you will go to the storeroom. Sift some flour, roll some white sugar, and place two dozen eggs in cold water. Grate a nutmeg or two, and cut a quarter of a pound of citron in narrow strips. By the time you have done that, I will come and give you further directions."
               "I know how to make citron-cake, if that is what you wish to have made, without any directions," said Margaret, who was very fond of doing every thing on her own hook, "and I want to make a plate of maccaroons."
               "I have no objections, if you think you will have time," replied her mother. "I told Debby you would make some boiled custards, and help her about the pastry."
               "Oh, let me do that, mother," cried Bessie; "I shall have time enough, and then Margaret can make the maccaroons. But be sure you have them stiff enough, sis," she continued; "you know you had bad luck with the last you made."
               A fact of which Margaret did not care to be reminded.
               "I understand how they should be prepared perfectly," she replied; "you had better go and attend to your dusting."
               Some time before they could reasonably expect their guests, the rooms were in perfect order, and Mrs. Allison and Margaret, in their respective apartments, were attending to the duties of the toilet. They were faithfully yet expeditiously performed, and when the latter made her appearance below stairs, no fault could reasonably be found with her dress, or its arrangement, save that it was somewhat too precise and elaborate for her years. Her robe of dark blue silk, heavy and lustrous, was made and trimmed after exactly the same fashion as her mother's black one, and seemed to fall around her tall and well-developed form in the very same folds. Her hair, long, heavy, and black as night, was braided and put up with the utmost precision; not a tress strayed from its fellows, not a single lock was out of place. As for her collar and under-sleeves, it was impossible to imagine that they ever had been, or ever could be, any less smooth and immaculate than they then were.
               As she passed through the hall into the sitting-room, she met Bessie, who was just coming from the kitchen.
               "What! not dressed yet, Bessie! What have you been about?"
               "Helping Debby shell those peas. We never had such early ones before. I did not suppose that the vines were even in blossom."
               "They did not come from our garden."
               "Where from, then?"
               "Mother sent to Morristown for them."
               "Did she? They are very nice ones. But I never thought that mother cared enough for peas to take so much pains to get them a few weeks earlier than they can be had in our own garden."
               "Well, don't stop to talk about it now. Do go and dress yourself. You look like a fright."
               As Bessie passed the hat-stand at the foot of the stairs, she glanced at the mirror, and we can not ascribe it to vanity, if she failed to discover that she was a very "fright"-ful object. Her plaid gingham morning-dress fitted neatly, and was very becoming. Her hair was hardly presentable, perhaps; that is, according to Margaret's definition of the word. She had been exercising all the forenoon, and it had escaped here and there from its confinement—rolling back from her pure forehead in a host of tiny waves. Somewhat disordered it doubtless was, but it was a picturesque and beautiful disorder, with which an artist would hardly have quarreled.
               Bessie quickly refreshed herself with a bath, and in less than ten minutes she was leaning over the bannisters calling,
               "Margaret! Margaret!"
               "What's wanting?"
               
               "Mother told me to put up my hair like yours, but I can not do it. It will curl in spite of me, and I can't make it lie smoothly."
               "Well, I can't help it," said Margaret; "wear it as you usually do."
               "But mother will be angry. Where is she, Margaret?"
               "In her room, I suppose."
               Thither went Bessie, brush in hand, to lay the case of the rebellious curls before her mother.
               "Dampen them," said Mrs. Allison.
               "But that makes it worse and worse. It curls a great deal more closely than it did before I took my bath."
               Mrs. Allison took the brush and made strenuous efforts to arrange the wavy tresses in smooth, Quakerly bands. After working over them for a quarter of an hour, she gave up in despair.
               "Go back to your room and brush it as usual," she said; "I can do nothing with it. But some day when I have more time, I will see what perseverance will accomplish. Those curls have such a frivolous air that I really can not endure them."
               Bessie was not long completing her toilet, and the plain white dress and blue sash which she selected, harmonized well with her child-like face and figure.
               But they did not please Margaret.
               "You are not going to wear that dress to-day?" she asked, glancing at it most scornfully.
               "Why, yes, I thought so. What is the trouble with it? I mended the tuck yesterday."
               "You look just like a great baby in it, with those short sleeves, and that little edge around the throat. You might at least put on a collar."
               "Then I should look like a little old woman, and that would be worse still. What makes you so particular to-day day, Margaret? I wore this dress one day last summer, when Mr. Floyd and Aunt Hetty were coming, and you did not say one word against it."
               "That was a very different matter," said Margaret, hastily. "Mr. Warren and his sister are almost strangers, and they have been accustomed to the best society always. Miss Grace is quite unlike Aunt Hetty, you will find."
               "But Mr. Warren can not be a better man than Mr. Floyd was," exclaimed Bessie, coloring, "or a better minister. We shall have reason to be glad if he is half as good."
               "There! there! don't get in a passion now, or go to crying. Hark! there's the bell. They must have arrived. Go call mother, while I open the door."
               Debby's judgment was not greatly at fault when she concluded that "Mrs. Warren" was "more'n five year older than her husband." Older than her brother Miss Grace was unquestionably, but though her face had lost the first bloom and freshness of early youth, it was still fair and sweet, and very lovely in that it was a faithful mirror of a lovely soul. Margaret had declared her to be "quite unlike Aunt Hetty," but there were some strong points of similarity between the two. There was the same genuine goodness, the same unaffected piety, the same benevolence and charity, leading to unnumbered acts of tenderness and love. To these, however, Miss Grace added mental endowments and mental culture of a high order, and a certain quiet elegance and dignity of manner such as Margaret had never seen before, and which had inspired her with a feeling nearly akin to awe. Not that she regarded these qualities as any thing inherent, but simply as the fruit of that familiarity with the "best society" of which she had spoken to Bessie; and she was in great fear lest something should be said or done that day which would not be in exact accordance with the etiquette of that society, or lest the practiced eyes of her new acquaintances should detect some deficiency in the appointments of the house or the table. This it was which had incited her to unusual diligence and care in the compounding of cakes, macaroons, and other delicacies, and which had led her to dress herself for the occasion even too elaborately.
               Of course Mrs. Allison and Margaret had called at the parsonage, but Bessie had seen neither of their guests excepting at church. She went up stairs as her sister requested, to call her mother, without any intention of remaining there. But a flood of emotion, welling up from widely different sources, rushed over her just then, and as Mrs. Allison swept down the broad staircase, she half unwittingly lingered behind. Love for her lost friend, whose memory had been vividly recalled by Margaret's words, and by the thought that it was for his successor that all these preparations were being made, brought the hot tears to her eyes, while something very like a thrill of indignation crimsoned her cheeks and tingled in the ends of her fingers. She was indignant with Margaret—not because she was disposed cordially to welcome their new friends, for that she well knew was both right and proper—but because in her admiration of the new she was inclined to undervalue the old—because she was so willing to place these untried strangers in the very niche that, it seemed to Bessie, should for awhile, at least, be sacred to the memory of the dead. Bessie would give Mr. Warren all due credit, and she did not doubt that he was worthy of esteem and affection—for had not Mr. Floyd recommended him?—but as for thinking he could ever adequately fill Mr. Floyd's place, that was quite out of the question.
               But while she lingered in the upper hall thinking of these things, and intending to go down the next minute, she heard a sweet voice in the parlor, say:
               "You have another daughter, I believe, Mrs. Allison?"
               "Yes—I have another," was the response; "is she not here? Margaret, where is Bessie?"
               Bessie glided down stairs and was in the room before Margaret had time to reply, and just in season to escape a reproof.
               The dinner passed off after the manner of dinners. The early peas were duly praised and wondered at, and ample justice was done to Bessie's custards. As for the macaroons, et cetera, they were to make their appearance at a later hour.
               A certain stiffness and formality usually prevailed at the table of Mrs. Allison. That lady, herself, had been "brought up" in a circle where it was considered in the highest degree indecorous for children to exhibit the least liveliness or gayety in the presence of their elders, and particularly at the table. She had faithfully followed the "traditions of the fathers," and had instilled, or tried to instill, the same lessons into the minds of those who had been committed to her own care. So their meals were generally taken in solemn silence, broken only by the clatter of knives and forks, and an occasional question gravely and formally propounded, and as formally answered. Even Bessie had been so often banished to her own room, with her hunger yet unsatisfied, on account of an untimely burst of laughter, or an unlucky speech, that she had succeeded at last in bringing both her tongue and the muscles of her face under tolerably good control.
               But that day the very fly in the corner of the dining-room, and the bird that was, without the slightest regard to decorum, or the proprieties of the occasion, pouring forth a flood of music from the white lilac-bush before the window, must have been astounded. The guests themselves at first felt the influence of the atmosphere which surrounded them, and a close observer might have seen a quick, intelligent glance pass from eye to eye, while the slightest possible smile for an instant disturbed the corners of Mr. Warren's mouth. It was impossible, however, long to resist the graceful ease and informality of their manner, and long before they rose from the table, cheerful conversation, and even an occasional laugh ran round the board.
               As they passed through the hall on their way from the dining-room to the parlor, Miss Grace caught a glimpse of the back stoop or piazza, inclosed by lattice-work, over which a luxuriant hop-vine threw its graceful tendrils. Mrs. Allison was not partial to flowers or house-plants. A bed for them in the garden was well enough, indeed, on the whole, she rather approved of it. Neither did she seriously object to a good, old-fashioned rose-bush, white or red. But running-roses, flowering vines, and all that sort of thing, she considered as "frivolous" as Bessie's curls, and did not lend them the light of her countenance. Debby, however, must have hops for the manufacture of the foaming, odorous yeast upon which she prided herself—holding, as she did, all the self-raising mixtures, and new-fangled methods of bread-making in utter contempt.
               "I tell ye what, Mis' Allison," said she, after trying something highly recommended by Mr. Lacy; "I don't think much o' this here stuff; I don't believe nothin' on't. Here, I mixed up this here mess ('t ain't fit to be called nothin' else) more'n two hours ago, and 't ain't fit to go in the oven yet. Jest give me plenty o' hops, picked in the right time o' year, and well dried and took care on, and I don't ax for nothin' better."
               But to return to Miss Grace. The well-shaded and cool piazza looked far more inviting to her than the dark and un-homelike parlors toward which Margaret was marshaling them, and she acted accordingly.
               "What a pleasant little stoop!" she exclaimed, bending her steps thitherward; "let us sit here for a while, Miss Margaret. It is so airy, and the light steals in so gently through the vine-leaves that it is far more pleasant than it is in the house;" and so saying, she seated herself upon one of the steps leading into the garden.
               Margaret thought Miss Grace displayed singular taste, but of course she could not object. So it happened that when Mrs. Allison joined the party, ten minutes afterward, she found them all comfortably established in the piazza, Mr. Warren holding a skein of silk for Margaret, and endeavoring to draw her into something more worthy to be called conversation than the monosyllabic utterances to which she was that day inclined to restrict herself, while Bessie was sitting on the steps with Miss Grace, chattering away as if she had known her for years.
               Mrs. Allison surveyed the group for an instant with utter astonishment—astonishment that would have been almost displeasure if it had not been for Mr. Warren's whereabouts and employment. As it was, she could not avoid saying,
               "Oh, Miss Grace, do not sit there upon the step! You will find the sofa much more comfortable. Mr. Warren, will you walk into the parlor? Margaret you should have led our friends thither at once. This is hardly a fit place for the entertainment of guests."
               Miss Grace half rose from her low seat, casting a comical glance at her brother, and then resumed it again.
               "Allow us to remain here, will you not, Mrs. Allison? Miss Margaret is not at fault, for we would not be led, but turned aside to follow the devices and desires of our own hearts. It is delightful out here, and I infinitely prefer it to the parlor, and my seat on the door-step to one on the sofa."
               
               "So do I," chimed in Mr. Warren; "if we had such an appendage as this to the parsonage, I am not at all sure that I should not take it for my study. But you have no seat, Mrs. Allison. Permit me to bring you one," and as Margaret wound the last of the silk, he stepped past his hostess before she could stop him, and brought a large rocking-chair from the parlor.
               She could not refuse to obey his playfully peremptory command that she should be seated therein, and accordingly she was seated, knitting in hand, where Bessie never remembered to have seen her before. It was truly marvelous how the ice of her manner melted before the warmth and kindliness of theirs.
               Bessie saw all this with a queer mixture of wonder and delight. The piazza was her favorite resort during the summer months, in spite of the frequent taunts of her sister, who was always ridiculing her fondness for the open air, and for out-of-door exercises. She had sat there all the previous afternoon, busy with her sewing, and her little work-basket still stood upon a small shelf in one corner. Margaret had teased her as usual, and called her a gipsy and a squaw, and made divers other pleasant and sisterly comparisons. And now to think that she was herself sitting there, with her mother and the minister!
               Miss Grace's dress puzzled them not a little. She wore no colors, simply black and white, yet they could not decide whether she was in mourning or not, Margaret thought she was, although, if it was so, she considered it strange that she did not wear bombazine instead of silk.
               In the course of the conversation some remark was made about the loss of friends, and Mrs. Allison seized upon the opportunity for solving the doubt.
               "We need much grace to sustain us in the hour of affliction," she said, with her most sanctimonious air; "and never more than when standing by the death-beds of our friends. But I regard it as both weak and sinful to repine unduly, and I have never done it, although I have had my trials. You too, I conclude, have known what it is to be bereaved," she added, glancing inquiringly at the black dress and plain muslin collar, fastened with a knot of white ribbon, which Miss Grace wore that day, and which, with very slight variations, had constituted her attire whenever she had seen her.
               A shadow passed over the fair face of the one addressed, and when she replied, after a moment's pause, there was a tremor in her voice, as if a yet unhealed wound had been carelessly probed.
               "Yes," she said, "more than once. But not recently."
               "You have lost your parents, I presume?" proceeded the inquisitress.
               "Both, when I was quite a child."
               "Brothers and sisters also?" continued Mrs. Allison, who, like other sportsmen, found her eagerness in the pursuit of her game materially enhanced by the difficulties to be overcome.
               But here Mr. Warren, who had been watching his sister narrowly, came to her relief.
               "None," he said; "we never had any, Mrs. Allison. 
                     
                        "'We two have grown
                        Orphans together and alone.'
                     
                   Grace is a little older than I, and she has been every thing to me, companion, sister, friend, and I had almost said—mother. Girls are so much older than boys of the same age, that there was a time when I felt as if she was very much my senior. But of late I have caught up with her. Is it not so, Grace?" he continued, laughingly, as he perceived that his sister had recovered her self possession. "I do not regard you with as much reverence as I did a few years since, do you think I do?"
               
               "Not by any means," she replied, with an answering smile. "He has been quite willful and obstinate lately, Mrs. Allison, and exhibits a strong inclination to have his own way."
               "If he is outgrowing your authority, Miss Grace, you should give him over to the care of a wife," said Mrs. Allison. "I presume you hold the reins too loosely."
               Apparently the conversation was taking a turn not particularly agreeable to Mr. Warren, for, without replying to this speech, he took up a book that was lying in Bessie's work-basket.
               "Miss Bremer's 'Home!'" he said, turning to the title-page. "Have you read this book, Miss Margaret?"
               "No, sir," was the answer; "I never read novels."
               Mr. Warren looked at her curiously for an instant, and had just opened his lips to reply when Mrs. Allison spoke.
               "I am exceedingly sorry, Mr. Warren, that you have found a book of such a character in my house, and it is but just that I should exonerate Margaret. She never indulges in reading of that description, neither do I purchase works of the kind. That was probably borrowed," she continued, with a meaning glance at Bessie, "and I shall see that it is immediately returned to its rightful owner."
               "Not until the borrower has finished its perusal, I trust," said Mr. Warren, compassionating the flushed cheeks which Bessie strove in vain to conceal, and which clearly betrayed the offender. "I perceive that you have not read the book, my dear madam, and I am very sure that you have formed an erroneous judgment with regard to its character."
               "I have never read any of Miss Bremer's works," was the reply. "They are novels, are they not?" and the tone in which the question was asked rendered it sufficiently plain that, in the opinion of the interrogator, if it was answered in the affirmative, there was nothing more to be said.
               "Novels? I suppose they are novels, yet hardly such in the sense in which you use the word. What do you mean by a novel, my dear Mrs. Allison?"
               The unnatural color was fast fading from Bessie's cheeks, and she was looking eagerly from her mother to Mr. Warren, and back again. Mrs. Allison hesitated.
               "I do not know that I can exactly tell you. Something utterly unfit to be read. A work of fiction, I suppose."
               "If you were to exclude from our libraries," said Mr. Warren, with a conciliating smile, "and especially from those designed more particularly for the young—district and Sunday-school libraries, for instance—every book that was not literally true, a record of facts that have actually occurred in the time and manner stated, you would reduce them to a very small compass."
               "Let them be reduced, then; the sooner the better. Life is too short and too precious to be wasted in the perusal of falsehoods."
               "Real life, as we term it, has falsehoods quite as gross and palpable as any that we find upon the pages of fiction," returned Mr. Warren, with a slight sigh. "But, Mrs. Allison, will you allow me to tell you what I think you mean by a novel?"
               "Certainly."
               "You mean a highly-colored, terribly romantic kind of a tale, containing any amount of silly love-speeches and sillier love-making, bloody murders, tyrannical parents, and broken-hearted and deserted damsels, with now and then a dungeon, a ghost, or a robber thrown in by way of spice—a book, in short, abounding in unnatural and exaggerated sentiment, inculcating a dangerous morality (if any at all), and presenting upon every page false pictures of life, its duties and responsibilities. Am I right?"
               "Perfectly," said Mrs. Allison, triumphantly. "You have given exactly my idea of a novel. Now are we to understand that you countenance the reading of such trash?"
               "By no means. I condemn it in toto. But 'such trash' Miss Bremer's works are not, and the same remark may be applied to the works of many writers of fiction of the present day. No thoughtful person can read them without feeling that they are true to life and its soberest realities, and true to the noblest impulses of our natures.'
               Miss Grace sat listening to this conversation with a quiet smile upon her lip, agreeing with her brother perfectly, but evidently thinking that he was capable of carrying on his part of it without her aid.
               "But if there were no other objection to the reading of fiction," said Mrs. Allison, "it is such a waste of time. There is so much to be read that is really true, so much history and biography, and all that, that it is utterly unnecessary to write or read stories, and I do not see how a thoroughly conscientious person can do either."
               "But, my dear Mrs. Allison, one can not always eat roast beef and drink strong coffee. Our systems sometimes imperatively demand lighter food. And what is true of the physical frame is equally true of the mind."
               "Perhaps so; but as fiction is necessarily rank poison, it would be probably less injurious to confine one's self to the roast beef of fact than to partake of the poison."
               "How necessarily?"
               "Because whatever is false proceeds from the father of lies," said Mrs. Allison, in a tone that betrayed a little irritation. "I never read but one novel in my life, Mr. Warren, and that was enough for me. My system has required no 'light food' since. It was fairly nauseating with its immorality and its profanity."
               "It carried with it its own antidote, then," said Mr. Warren; "and you were doubtless unfortunate in falling upon one of the worst of its class. You will not deny that the truest truths may be conveyed to the mind through the medium of the parable. We have the highest authority for that."
               "A hackneyed argument, Mr. Warren."
               "Yet no less powerful on that account. Our Saviour knew perfectly every want, every weakness, every yearning of humanity, and we can not doubt that he adopted the very best method for the inculcation of the holy truths he taught. Do not suppose me, my dear madam, to be an advocate for indiscriminate novel-reading. On the contrary, I am greatly opposed to it; and if I were a parent I would take good care that my children read no books with whose character I was not myself familiar. But, believing as I do that the story—the novel, if you prefer the word, which I do not—may be the vehicle of immense good, the instrument for conveying the purest and most important lessons to minds which could be reached in no other way, I can not feel justified in discarding it entirely."
               "Do you read novels, Miss Grace?" asked Mrs. Allison, suddenly, turning toward her as she spoke.
               "Not often," was the smiling reply. "But I must confess that I occasionally find something of the kind a positive need—a need as imperative as that of the roast beef of which you have been speaking. There is a part of my mental and moral nature which craves aliment such as it can not always find in the region of solid fact. Sometimes," she continued, while a faint color stole over her usually pale cheek, and her eyes seemed to grow darker and deeper, "I feel, with the heroine of a poem that I read the other day— 
                     
                        "——a vague unrest
                        And a nameless longing fill my breast;
                        A wish that I scarcely dare to own
                        For something better than I have known.'
                     
                   And when in such a mood, I like to visit the realms of poetry and romance in search of my ideal."
               "And how do you return?" said her brother, while the latent fire in his own eye told that she had at least one sympathetic listener. "Unfitted for the actualities of life? disgusted with its prosaic duties? with less of love and charity for your fellow-men?"
               "No! I come back refreshed and invigorated by the calmer and purer air I have been breathing. Life seems nobler and better, and more richly worth living, and I have a larger faith in humanity, in its capabilities, and in the promises of its future."
               "Why have you that larger faith?" asked Mr. Warren, forgetting at the moment that they were not alone.
               "Because the created can not be greater than the creator. The lofty and beautiful creations of the poet and of the novelist, the prose-poet, are not mere chimeras. They are types of humanity, glorified and exalted humanity it may be, but humanity still. In our daily intercourse with society we see so much of insincerity, of hollowness, of selfishness rising to the surface, that we are apt to forget how much that is good and noble lies beneath it—to overlook the fact that nearly every inner life is a poem. Whatever lifts the vail and reveals to me that inner life, with its hopes, its sorrows, its aspirations, and its earnest strivings, brings me into closer communion with my brethren the whole world over, and strengthens and encourages me in the endeavor to raise my own life to the standard of my ideal."
               This was all Greek to Mrs. Allison, and as she was not sufficiently familiar with that tongue to reply, she closed the conference, as far as she was concerned, by saying that she must go and see about tea.
               "I wonder you do not write novels, Mr. Warren, or you, Miss Grace," said Margaret, after a pause of a few minutes. The silence was becoming awkward, or so she thought, and she felt that she must say someting to break it.
               "I did begin a story once," was Mr. Warren's laughingly-uttered reply, "but it was a failure. I could not manage the conversational part. All the characters would talk Paul Warren in spite of me, so I gave it up in despair."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           I thank Thee, Source of every bliss,
                           For every bliss I know;
                           I thank Thee, Thou didst train me so
                           To learn Thy way in this:
                           That wishing good, and doing good,
                           Is laboring, Lord, with Thee;
                           That charity is gratitude,
                           And piety, best understood,
                           A sweet humanity.
                        
                     
                     FROM THE DUTCH OF TOLLINS.
                  
               
               AFTER tea was over, Mrs. Allison led the way to the parlor herself, and with so resolute an air that no one thought of casting even a glance in the direction of the piazza.
               "There!" said Miss Grace, who occupied a seat near the window; "Miss Margaret, can you tell me who is that young lady on the opposite side of the street?"
               Margaret approached the window eagerly, and looked out.
               "That? oh! that is a girl who teaches school down in the village. Her name is Ellen Wentworth."
               "I asked because I have met her in the street several times, until her face has become quite familiar to me, indeed; but have never before had an opportunity to inquire her name. She is certainly not a beauty, yet there is something remarkably interesting about her. Hers is a face not easily forgotten—a face that haunts one."
               "She is in the street a great deal, I believe," said Margaret, replying to Miss Grace's first remark, rather than her last. "But my acquaintance with her is very slight," she added, indifferently.
               Her manner said, as plainly as words could have said, "I know of her all that I wish to know, and rather more," and so Miss Grace understood it. She asked no further questions, but took up her embroidery again.
               Mrs. Allison was conversing with Mr. Warren in a distant corner of the room, and Bessie sat on a low seat at Miss Grace's feet. For a moment she hesitated whether she should correct the false impression which she felt her sister had conveyed. But it was only for a moment. The thought of Ellen's face as she had last seen it—pale and weary-looking, after a day of close confinement in the school-room—came to strengthen her faltering resolution.
               "I know Ellen well," she said, in a very low voice. "She is a very sweet girl, and one of my best friends."
               "One of yours?" said Miss Grace, letting her work fall in her lap, and looking smilingly on the wavy curls at her side. "A friend much older than yourself, I should think. Is it not so?"
               "Oh, no, ma'am. There is only about six months difference in our ages. Ellen is taller than I am, and that makes her look older."
               Miss Grace thought to herself that it was not merely the difference in height. Time had laid his hand upon one much more lightly than upon the other, and there was a look of thoughtful maturity in Ellen's face, for which one sought in vain in Bessie's.
               "And she is teaching school, young as she is," said Miss Grace. "From necessity not from choice, I am certain, at her age. Tell me something about your friend, Bessie. I fancy her history is interesting."
               "There is nothing at all wonderful about it, ma'am," she replied; "but I will tell you what I know;" and in few and simple words she gave an account of Ellen's early life, of her father's death, of their subsequent efforts to maintain themselves respectably, of William's heroic conduct, of his illness and his lameness.
               Miss Grace listened eagerly.
               "Where does Mrs. Wentworth live?" she asked.
               Bessie told her.
               "It is the very place," said she. Then raising her voice a little she addressed her brother, who was still at the other side of the room.
               "Brother Paul, do you not remember my telling you that in one of my walks last week I passed a cottage, before the open door of which sat a young man who was evidently a cripple? It seems he is the brother of the young lady who interested me so much, and he lost the use of his limb in saving the life of a drowning boy last winter. Poor fellow! I must go and see him. Will you go with me some day, Bessie?"
               Bessie assented conditionally, and Miss Grace accordingly appealed to Mrs. Allison. She could not refuse to allow Bessie to go on what their guests evidently regarded as a mission of mercy. It was therefore decided that on the next Saturday afternoon, when Ellen would be disengaged, Bessie should go to the parsonage and accompany Miss Grace to Mrs. Wentworth's.
               It was past sundown, and their friends soon left, walking home in the soft summer twilight. Bessie stood at the window watching them until they turned the corner.
               "I wouldn't stand there all night," said Margaret, who was placing the chairs in their usual positions again. "Shut the window, or the room will be filled with mus-quitoes. You seem to have fallen wonderfully in love with Mr. Warren and Miss Grace, considering that you had made up your mind not to like them at all."
               "I like them both very much indeed," said Bessie, as she unfastened the window blinds and drew them together. "But I haven't fallen in love with them. And you are very much mistaken about the state of my mind. I had not formed an opinion for or against."
               "You would appear a great deal better if you would not be quite so pert and forward," said Margaret. "You are not a young lady yet, and it is not very becoming for you to engross an older person's whole time and attention. You clung to Miss Grace all the afternoon so that she had no opportunity to speak to any one else."
               "She called me to come and sit by her," was the reply, "and I thought it would not be polite to refuse. I don't know how to please you, Margaret."
               "You can please me easily enough, if you try," she answered. "You need not have staid at her elbow the whole time, with your face all in a glow, and looking so delighted. One would have thought you had never been spoken to before, and were completely overjoyed."
               Bessie said nothing in reply to this, but her face was certainly not "all in a glow" now, neither did she seem particularly delighted. Presently Margaret proceeded.
               "I imagine she could have found her way to Mrs. Wentworth's without your help, if she was very anxious to go there. When you are a little older you will learn that it is not necessary to accept every invitation that may be given you out of mere politeness."
               "Well," said Bessie, rather sadly as she turned away, "people must say what they mean when they talk to me, and then I shall know how to answer them. You make me feel as if there was nothing but deceit and hypocrisy in this world, when you talk so, Margaret."
               "There isn't much else, and you'll find it out, if you live long enough, and will learn not to believe every thing people say to you. Here, put up these vases, and then shut the door."
               Saturday afternoon came, and Bessie started for the parsonage in a mood that was very grave and quiet, if not exactly sad.
               
               She was pondering Margaret's words, and wondering if it was true that she ought to place no confidence in apparent friendship, and trust no protestations of regard and affection.
               "Margaret wants me to distrust every body, I believe," she thought, as she picked a sweet-brier rose from a bush which extended its arms to her as she passed. "But after all when people are kind and polite to her she always thinks it is because they really like her."
               Mr. Floyd! how all other thoughts were merged in the one thought of him, as she opened the white picketed gate, and walked slowly up the graveled path. It was the first time she had been there since Aunt Hetty moved from the house, and she found it difficult to realize that she was to see comparative strangers in the old, familiar rooms.
               A neat servant-girl opened the door, and ushered her into the parlor, saying that Miss Grace would be down in a few moments. It did not seem like the same room, with its new furniture, and new arrangements, and at first she sat as one in a dream, scarcely heeding where she was. Then she began to miss the large, old-fashioned sofa, the high-backed mahogany chairs, the quaint mantle ornaments from beyond the seas, which she had admired and marveled at when a child, and the beautiful things around her could not make amends for their loss. But more, oh! how much more! did she miss the venerable form whose presence had lent the place a dignity not its own. He would not come back again; his hand would never more be laid upon her head in benediction; she would hear his voice no more in blessing or in prayer.
               When Mr. Warren came into the room he found Bessie with her forehead resting upon the arm of her chair, weeping quietly. She had heard his approaching step, and striven to check the tears for what she supposed it would be impossible for him to account. But she could not do it, and was obliged to content herself with an effort at concealing them.
               Not a very effectual one, however. Mr. Warren looked at her silently for an instant, and then came to her side, and laid his hand upon her head.
               It was Mr. Floyd's very touch, his very action—yet how different! Bessie's tears flowed more freely than ever. Still Mr. Warren said not a word, but his hand maintained its old position.
               At last Bessie looked up, with a shy, embarrassed air.
               "I beg your pardon, Mr. Floy—Mr. Warren, I mean. I am very foolish."
               "Are you?" he replied, with a slight smile. "I do not think so. You need not be ashamed of your tears, Miss Bessie."
               She glanced at him inquiringly.
               "Because they are flowing worthily. You are thinking that you are not fond of changes—that you like old friends better than new ones—that is all."
               "No, sir," she said, hesitatingly; "not exactly that. But—"
               "Very near it, I fancy. And it is right and proper. I am glad you feel so, Bessie."
               "I loved Mr. Floyd very much, sir," said Bessie, after a long pause, during which she felt as if she was making a very foolish appearance; "and—"
               Her voice broke, and she could go no further.
               "I know it, Bessie. Aunt Hetty told me all about it. How you loved him, and how you took care of him, and staid with him to the last, and what a comfort you were to him. I do not wonder that you loved him, Bessie. I loved him myself. He was a good and noble man, and I pray God that his mantle may fall upon your new pastor. I shall try to fill his place, but it will be a difficult matter to do so."
               
               "Yes, sir, I think it will," said Bessie, so frankly that he could not help smiling. "There are very few people like Mr. Floyd. But I am glad you came here, sir," she added, quietly, for she felt that her remark was hardly courteous, and wished to make amends. "I am sure we shall like you very much, when—"
               "When you get better acquainted with me? I hope so, truly. But here comes my sister, ready for her walk. May I go with you, Miss Bessie? Will you introduce me to these friends of yours?"
               "I shall be very glad to do so, sir," she answered, cordially returning Miss Grace's kiss.
               Twenty minutes afterward they were passing Mr. Lacy's store, just as Margaret came out of it.
               She bowed rather stiffly, in return for their kindly greeting.
               "Will you join our party, Miss Margaret?" said Miss Grace and Mr. Warren at the same moment. "We are on our way to Mrs. Wentworth's, and will be glad, of your company."
               But Margaret coldly declined, and went her way, leaving them to go theirs.
               They soon reached the place of their destination, and the introductions were speedily over. They found Mrs. Wentworth, as usual, "plying her needle and thread," while Ellen was ruling copy-books and setting copies for her little flock against the following Monday; and William, lying or sitting in his large chair, was making a rude attempt at braiding a straw hat. A tear sprang to Miss Grace's soft eye as she saw him, so wan, so fragile, and with a look of such despairing sorrow upon his fine face, moving his thin, white fingers wearily, and patiently smoothing and bending the refractory straws. Yet she felt scarcely less sympathy for the mother who laid aside her work and rose to receive them with as much true dignity as if her humble apartment had been the proudest drawing-room in the land, and for Ellen, whose calm, broad forehead and simply parted hair seemed even beautiful, now that she had heard the story of her sisterly love and devotion.
               To say that Mr. Warren's sympathies were at once and powerfully enlisted in behalf of the crippled boy, would be only repeating what every reader already knows. For two or three hours that afternoon he sat by his side, talking to him and leading him to talk, and rejoicing in his inmost heart as he saw the look of listless sadness that he had worn at first, gradually give place to a brighter and more hopeful expression. Seemingly without any effort to do so, he led his mind away from the contemplation of whatever was painful, suggested new themes for thought and reflection, and re-awakened his interest in the living, breathing world around him.
               Nor was the good he did confined to William alone. His Christian benevolence and cheerful piety threw a warm light, a glowing radiance over the whole house, and Mrs. Wentworth and Ellen caught their full share, while Bessie listened with delighted interest, and Miss Grace hardly knew whether to weep or smile. It must not be supposed that Mr. Warren did all the talking. One would hardly have noticed that he said more than the others, but what he did say was so suggestive that a few words produced the effect of many.
               "And now is there any thing that I can do for you, my dear boy?" he asked, as they rose to take their leave, clasping one of those thin, pale hands in both of his as he spoke.
               "Come and see me again, sir," replied William, lifting a confiding and affectionate glance to the beaming face that was bending over him. "That will do me more good than any thing else. This visit has done me good already."
               
               "That it has," said Mrs. Wentworth, with a smile on her lip, but a tremor in her voice; "I have not seen you look so well—so happy—in a long time. I am infinitely obliged to you for this call, Mr. Warren, and to you also, Miss Grace. As for Bessie," she continued, extending her hand and drawing her to her side, "she knows that she is always welcome."
               "We must try to brighten this pale face permanently," said Miss Grace, as she approached William's chair, and smoothed back, caressingly, the dark locks which lay upon his forehead; "and I think it can be done. Will you promise to receive me with a smile if I come again tomorrow or next day, William?"
               William did not reply in audible language, but moved by a sudden impulse, he imprisoned the delicate hand that was resting on his brow, and carried it to his lips.
               The large family Bible which had been a bridal gift to Mrs. Wentworth, from her father, lay on a small stand designed expressly for it;—the joint manufacture of William and Ellen—and Mrs. Wentworth directed Mr. Warren's attention thitherward by a glance of the eye. He opened the book, standing as he was, and slowly turning the leaves, read verse after verse, selecting with marvelous rapidity such as were peculiarly adapted to the circumstances of the family. Mrs. Wentworth told Ellen afterward that it seemed as if a voice from Heaven was speaking directly to her. Then kneeling, he commended them to the care of the Almighty, in a few earnest and simple words, such as can come only from the lips of him who feels that he is speaking to a father.
               Miss Grace insisted that Bessie should return to the parsonage with them and take tea. But mindful, it may be, of Margaret's admonitions—at any rate, fearful of intruding—she declined the invitation, and was soon at home.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           He makes a July's day short as December,
                           And, with his varying childness, cures in me
                           Thoughts that would thick my blood.
                        
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               FROM that day Mr. Warren's calls at Mrs. Wentworth's, although they were truly "angel's visits" in many respects, were by no means "few nor far between." Assiduously did he apply himself to the pleasing task of becoming thoroughly acquainted with William's mind and character; while, at the same time, he cheered and encouraged him, taught him to look with a more hopeful spirit down the long vista of coming years, and to feel that he had still something to live for, something to do, and a part to perform in the great drama of existence.
               But all this while he was studying him—taking, as it were, the gauge of his intellect, and satisfying himself as to its powers and capabilities.
               At length his resolution was taken. He had become perfectly confident that William possessed powers of which he was himself unconscious, which, rightly improved, would render him not only an honor to his friends, and an ornament to society, but a blessing to the world. He thought of Emerson's theory of "compensation," and felt almost assured that what seemed so terrible a calamity, was, in good truth, a "blessing in disguise"—a loving hand leading him over a rough and thorny path, to the "green pastures" and "still waters" lying beyond.
               
               One sultry morning in July, Miss Grace entered her brother's study, with a small wicker basket in her hand. It was covered with vine-leaves, but the rich fragrance of the raspberries was not to be mistaken.
               "Are you going to Mrs. Wentworth's this morning, Paul?" she asked, as she approached the table where he was writing.
               "That is my intention," was the reply, "as soon as I shall have finished this page of my sermon. What have you there? Raspberries?"
               "Yes, white ones. Are they not beautiful?" she said, lifting the fresh green leaves that concealed them; "I picked them just now, intending to carry them to William, myself, but the heat is so oppressive that I hardly dare venture, after my headache of yesterday. As you are going, however, it will answer just as well;" and pushing back the white sun-bonnet, she wiped the moisture from her brow.
               "Hardly; they would be sweeter from your hand than from mine, I imagine. But sit down," he continued, placing her in a large chair near the window, and removing her bonnet; "you look so warm, and so tired. There! that is just the coolest place in the house, and you will soon be more comfortable. Grace, do you know that I bless you every day of my life?"
               "Yes, I know that you are the blessing of my life," she replied, with a willful misapplication of his words.
               "No, no, that is not what I mean," said Mr. Warren; "and you know it very well. But I bless you for what you are to me, and to this people. The poor regard you as their ministering angel, and more than once or twice even, since we have been here, have I heard your name murmured by dying lips, coupled with eloquent words of gratitude and affection. Many here and elsewhere, dear Grace, are ready to rise up and call you blessed."
               "I do no more than my duty requires of me, Paul," she answered, with a sweet, though somewhat sad smile. "You know I regard myself as a Sister of Charity."
               "I know that no vailed sister, with her cross and rosary, ever discharged more perfectly the obligations imposed by her vow, than do you yours without the vow. You are a marvel to me, Grace."
               "Why?" she asked, seriously.
               "Because, when I remember what you once were—a proud, over-fastidious girl, shrinking unduly from whatever was not delicate and refined, and gathering up your garments as you passed the beggar in the street, lest they should be soiled by the contact—when I remember that, and see you now, hovering over the beds of the dying, performing the most menial offices for the sick, taking the poor children of want and sorrow to your bosom, and pointing the desolate mourner to 'the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the world,' I can scarcely realize the change."
               The tears sprang to Miss Grace's eyes; but she said nothing, and imprinting one kiss upon her brother's forehead, she stepped quickly from the room.
               Mr. Warren sat for a moment or two with his eyes fastened upon the door through which she disappeared, but with his thoughts far distant. When they came home again, he resumed his pen and completed the page upon which he was working. Then taking the basket of raspberries he proceeded to Mrs. Wentworth's.
               Ellen was in the school-room, surrounded by her band of pupils, her mother was engaged in some domestic duty in the little shed which was, for the time being, elevated to the dignity of a kitchen, and William was alone. A half-finished straw hat lay in his lap, and his fingers moved mechanically among the slender strands, but his eyes had wandered out through the open window, past the adjacent buildings, and beyond the meadow and wheat-field, till they rested in the deep green woods that lay like a wall upon the horizon; and his thoughts had followed them. He was not aware of his friend's presence, until one of his hands was gently taken, and a familiar voice said,
               "In a day-dream, William?"
               "Oh, Mr. Warren! I am so glad to see you. I was not exactly dreaming, sir; I was only thinking."
               "What about?"
               "I can hardly tell, sir. A little of every thing, I believe."
               "And thinking sadly; your eyes tell me that. But here are some raspberries my sister has sent you. She would have brought them herself if it had not been so very warm. I am going to find your mother, and ask her to prepare a saucerful for you, with the due proportion of sugar and cream; then you must eat them while we are talking. Is she in here?" and Mr. Warren tapped lightly on the door leading to the shed.
               It was presently opened. Mrs. Wentworth took the basket with a smile, and promised to prepare the berries according to Mr. Warren's request, while he returned to William.
               "Miss Grace is very kind," said the latter; "and so thoughtful! She thinks of every body but herself. My limb has been much less painful since she made that new kind of bandage for it."
               "Has it? I am very glad, and will tell her so. It will give her great pleasure. But here come the raspberries," continued Mr. Warren, as Mrs. Wentworth entered the room; "now if we could only contrive to impart to them some medicinal power, my dear madam, so that they would give color to those cheeks, and vigor to those limbs!"
               "They would do that, and more, I am sure, if the goodwill of the giver was of any avail," she replied, as she placed the saucer in William's hand. "How can I ever thank you, sir, and that dear sister of yours, for your kindness to this boy?"
               "By not mentioning it," was the reply; "we have received as much pleasure as we have "bestowed, I do assure you."
               "I do not doubt it," said Mrs. Wentworth, as, with tears in her eyes, she returned to her work again; "are we not told that it is more blessed to give than to receive?"
               "How do you like this business, William?" asked Mr. Warren, as he took up the hat he was braiding. "Does this playing with straws please you?"
               "Not at all, sir; I dislike it exceedingly. It is so monotonous and so tiresome."
               "And not very profitable, either?"
               "No, sir. But it is better than nothing, and I must do something. I can not lie here idle, day after day, watching the gleam of my mother's needle, and listening to the humming of Ellen's hive of bees in the other room there. It would drive me crazy."
               "What if I could find you something better to do?"
               "I should be glad if you could, sir. But I don't know what it would be."
               Mr. Warren was silent for a moment or two.
               "Did you ever think of getting an education, William?"
               The pale cheeks were any thing but pale then.
               "I thought of it and dreamed of it as long as I dared, Mr. Warren. It was the brightest hope of my childhood."
               "But you had given it up?"
               "Yes, because I felt that I must. As a clerk in a store I could soon have placed myself in a position to have supported my mother and sister; and after, and indeed before my father's death, I became convinced that my first duty was to them, and resolved to abandon the dream of an education. But it cost me many a struggle, Mr. Warren, many a heartache."
               "I am glad to hear it. You look surprised, but I mean what I say. No one ever came off conqueror in such a struggle over self, whose character was not strengthened and ennobled by the contest. But it is over now, my dear boy, and you may fall to dreaming again as soon as you please."
               "I do not understand you, Mr. Warren," said William, sadly, for he almost thought that his friend was trifling with him. "If it was hopeless for me to think of an education when I was strong and well, it would be worse than that—it would be sheer folly—madness—for me to do so now, when I am a poor, good-for-nothing cripple. Oh, Mr. Warren!" and he turned away his head to conceal the bright drops which, in spite of his manliness, forced their way through his tightly-closed eyelids.
               "Not good for nothing, as you shall prove," replied Mr. Warren, gently, as with a half-caressing motion he obliged William to look him in the face again. "I did not come here to hear you call yourself hard names. And not poor, but rich. Rich in youth, and in the long years of honor and usefulness that are stretching before you; rich in gifts which will enable you, if you do but use them aright, to place yourself wheresoever you will; rich in friends, who love you, and rich in the hope of a blessed eternity hereafter. Is it not so, William?"
               "Yes," he answered, while that one thought of things eternal quieted the troubled waters of his soul and hushed them into comparative repose. "Yes, I am rich in blessings. Rich in friends I surely am, while I have you, and Miss Grace, and mother, and Ellen, and Bessie!"
               "And Mr. Ashley, and Mrs. Marsh, and little Henry—and the whole village besides," added Mr. Warren, gayly. "You are a very fortunate young man, William. But now for my plan. I wish you to commence your studies at once; this afternoon, if it pleases you."
               "But, Mr. Warren—"
               "But what?"
               "How am I to manage, sir?"
               "You are not to manage at all, but to let me manage for you. In—let me see—in about two hours from this time," he continued, looking at his watch, "if you are sitting here by the window as usual, you will see a boy—Henry Marsh, very probably—coming down street trundling a small wheelbarrow before him. It will contain all the books you will need for one year's study—English, Greek, and Latin."
               "Greek and Latin!"
               "Yes," said Mr. Warren, very quietly, "Greek and Latin of course, if you are going to college."
               Going to college! William did not speak, for he could not. He was dazzled and bewildered by this sudden flood of sunshine, and after gazing earnestly at his friend for a moment, he covered his face with his hands, and burst into very womanish tears.
               "But, Mr. Warren," he said, after awhile, "I dare not think of the thing. I can study as I lie here, and indeed I can do little else. But this chair would make a fine appearance going through college! and I can not move without it."
               "You will not always be inseparable companions, I trust," was the reply. "Dr. Elliot told me yesterday that he hoped you would be able to walk with a crutch in the course of a month. Do not trouble yourself about the future, William. Accept joyfully the good the present brings you; use it well and faithfully, and trust God for the coming years. I can give you no better advice."
               The smile with which William replied to this was fairly radiant, but it vanished as quickly as it came.
               "What now?" asked Mr. Warren. "Is the faith wanting?"
               "No, sir, not exactly. Yet it seems so preposterous, so utterly absurd."
               "What? to take the 'good the gods provide?' On the contrary, I think it the highest wisdom. And in this case, it is a duty also. That for which you have been so long sighing, time and opportunity for mental culture, mental improvement, is within your reach. See that you use it aright."
               "I will try, sir, I will try. I will do my very best," said William eagerly, clasping the hand that rested upon the arm of his chair. "I will make good use of the present, and trust God for the future. I can not tell you how happy I am, Mr. Warren, nor how much I thank you."
               "It is not necessary. I know it all, and I shall expect great things of you," was the reply. "Now I will go home, and send you the books. To-morrow we will look them over, and arrange a plan of study."
               "I am afraid I shall be a great trouble to you," said William, sighing. "You have enough to do already."
               "Oh, that is nothing. I can superintend your studies very easily. Occasionally I may be too busy, or out of town, and at such times my sister has volunteered to supply my place; she is an excellent linguist." And so saying, Mr. Warren took up his hat and bade him adieu.
               It was nearly noon, and William could hardly wait until school was out, so eager was he to share his new and great joy with Ellen and his mother. Yet when he attempted to relate to them the story of the morning, impertinent tears came and choked his voice. At last, however, they comprehended it all.
               "May the blessing of Heaven rest upon him and his forever!" exclaimed Mrs. Wentworth, fervently; "and it surely will, for he is never 'weary in well-doing.' God bless him!"
               "I have but little idea that I shall be able to go to college," said William, "even if my health should be such as to admit of it. But I will learn all I can, that I may be prepared to seize upon any opportunity that presents itself. Oh, mother! if after all I should be able to do something for you and Ellen, instead of being a burden to you all my life long!"
               "A burden that we loved to bear, dear Willie," said Ellen, kissing him. "A precious burden. You must not talk so, Willie. I can not bear that!"
               She leaned her head upon the back of his chair as she spoke. But William twined his arm around her, and drew her to his breast.
               "You look pale and tired, Ellie—as if you needed to be taken care of yourself. Those children are wearing you out. Here, lay your head on my pillow, and go to sleep."
               "I am tired, but not sleepy, and would rather talk," she replied, nestling closer to his side. "Now tell me all your plans, and that will rest me."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXV.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Like the swell of some sweet tune,
                           Morning rises into noon,
                           May glides onward into June.
                        
                     
                     LONGFELLOW.
                  
               
               DAYS, and weeks, and months flew rapidly past. The blossoms faded, the autumn fruits were gathered, the snow came and went, and summer—flower-crowned, and green-robed summer—again visited the earth. William Wentworth was a year older than at the date of our last chapter. But what a year had it not been! A year of such rapid mental growth, of such expansion of mind and soul, that the expectations of his kind teacher were more than met, and his own highly-wrought hopes of improvement were fully realized. To his mother and Ellen his progress in his studies seemed little less than marvelous. Yet they trembled in the midst of their joy. He still continued feeble, and was unable, even with the aid of his crutch, to do more than slowly move about the house and yard.
               Ellen's school stood now upon a pretty firm foundation. The number of her scholars had steadily increased, until she had quite as many as she could attend to; and among them were several girls who were nearly as old as herself. In school and out she had plenty of employment—employment not only for her head and hands, but for her heart and affections. That little, humble, laborious home, was one of the happiest in all Lanmere, and many a fair girl who looked with a kind of self-complacent pity upon the young schoolmistress, might have envied her the quiet contentment, the peace and tranquillity of her lot. William's health was the only shadow upon her pathway, and he himself was now so cheerful, so hopeful, so animated, that even that was neither very wide-spread nor very dark.
               "What are you thinking of, Ellen?" asked Mrs. Wentworth one evening, as her daughter sat by the window, looking at the sunset clouds, yet evidently without seeing them. "You have not moved for full ten minutes."
               Ellen's thoughtful face was even more thoughtful than its wont, as she quickly turned to meet and answer her mother's loving glance.
               "Not of myself, mother. I was thinking of Bessie Allison."
               "And what of her?"
               Ellen hesitated a moment.
               "I do not know that I answered you correctly," she replied. "I was thinking both of myself and her. I was thinking how much better off I am than she is."
               "Why, Ellen!" exclaimed Mrs. Wentworth.
               "You had better not make such a remark as that in the presence of Mrs. Allison," said William, laughing, "unless you wish to be considered a fit subject for the asylum at Brattleboro'. She would think you insane, certainly."
               "I do not doubt it; and I presume Bessie would think so also; but it is true, nevertheless."
               "What? That you are better off than Bessie?"
               "Yes."
               "Well, if you can prove that," said William, "I shall consider you fully competent to the demonstration of any problem whatever. But it is a good thing, I must confess, to be able to take a favorable view of one's situation and prospects."
               "You need not laugh, William," said Ellen, who was, nevertheless, laughing herself. "You think what I have said is supremely ridiculous; but it is not."
               "That assertion is not an axiom, sister mine. It requires proof."
               "Which I will give you when you doff that incredulous smile, Sir Oracle, and not before. You are very ungallant this evening."
               "There, Ellie, the smile is gone, and I am as grave as a judge," said William, drawing his hand sportively over his face. "Proceed with your comparison. In the first place you are blessed with a crippled brother to work for and wait on, while she—"
               "Stop, William," exclaimed Ellen, and she was about to say more, but the trembling of her voice rendered it necessary for her to stop herself. She had left her seat at the window, and was standing by her brother's side, with her hand resting upon his shoulder. As he saw her emotion, he looked at her a moment in some surprise, and then kissed her without speaking.
               "I say 'stop, William,' too," said Mrs. Wentworth, drawing near to her children, and encircling them both in her arms, "although I am glad to see that you can make such an allusion to your lameness with an unshadowed face. You could not have done it six months ago, and it shows that you are becoming reconciled to what seems an inevitable calamity. But Ellen considers it no hardship to wait on you, my son, and such remarks distress her."
               "I will make them no more, dear mother," he replied, taking a hand of both mother and sister, and carrying them together to his lips. "Forgive me, Ellie; I will not be so thoughtless again, I promise you."
               Ellen was by no means implacable, and presently Mrs. Wentworth spoke again.
               "What were you going to say about Bessie, my love? I am a little curious to know of what you were thinking."
               "It would be difficult for me to tell you exactly," was the reply. "I was 'putting this and that together,' comparing facts and drawing inferences. And the conclusion at which I arrived was, as I said before, that I was the best off of the two."
               "But why?"
               "If you were better acquainted with Mrs. Allison and Margaret, I could make you understand my meaning perfectly. As it is, I think my success is rather doubtful."
               "I know them very well," said Mrs. Wentworth, smiling; "better than you think, perhaps. So you need not hesitate on that account."
               "Were you ever in the house?" asked Ellen. "Mrs. Allison's, I mean."
               "Never."
               "You have been in an ice-house?"
               "Yes," replied Mrs. Wentworth, laughing.
               "And you remember that a chill struck you as you entered?"
               "Certainly."
               "Well, Mrs. Allison's house is an ice-house, morally speaking. I was never within its walls ten minutes without being thoroughly chilled."
               "But it is not probable that its inmates are thus affected," said Mrs. Wentworth. "Humanity has such a wonderful power of adaptation, that it can become accustomed to almost any thing."
               "Even to living in an ice-house? Rather a doubtful experiment, I imagine, mother. But if even if life could be preserved in such an atmosphere, it would not be very favorable to growth and development."
               "Granted. But, Ellen, how came your thoughts upon this track to-night?"
               "They went 'round Robin Hood's barn' to find it, I must confess," she replied. "First I saw a kitten running across the road. That reminded me of 'Whitey' and 'Whitefoot,' and then, of course, I thought of Bessie—of the time when she was lost in the woods, when you found her and brought her to our house in your arms, William, and of the long sickness which followed. Then I thought of her faithful friendship, changing only as it grew stronger year by year; of her ever-ready sympathy, and her many acts of kindness. I thought how often, when we were at school together, she interposed herself as a shield between me and impertinent observations and remarks; and how many an ill-bred girl, with more money than brains, who would have had no scruples about insulting or neglecting poor Ellen Wentworth, felt herself compelled to treat Bessie Allison's chosen friend with at least a show of civility. Oh! I never can forget it. Did I ever tell you about her wearing the old hood, mother?"
               "I believe not; or I do not recollect it if you did."
               "It was so characteristic. It was the first winter that I went to Miss Carey's. I wore an old black hood, made out of something of yours. It was no beauty, but very comfortable, nevertheless. Bessie wore a pretty little affair, with blue trimmings—quite a contrast to mine. One day when we were in the recitation-room, drawing maps upon the black-board, we overheard the conversation of some of the girls who were in the closet adjoining, where we kept our bonnets and shawls. They were 'making fun' of my old hood, and said, if, the truth must be told, some shameful as well as some mirth-provoking things. How angry Bessie was! Her eyes flashed and her cheeks glowed, and before I could stop her she marched into the closet with a step as proud as a queen's, took the hood from the hands of the girl who was ridiculing it, folded it carefully and laid it in her desk. There she made me keep it all winter. The next day her pretty blue hood did not make its appearance, but in its stead she wore one that looked not a whit better than mine. I never could imagine what reason she gave her mother for preferring the old one. When I asked her about it she would only laugh and say she thought it more suitable for school-wear."
               "Did she continue to wear it all winter?" asked William.
               "Yes, all winter. She wore the blue hood frequently, but not to school. It never showed itself within the yard of the seminary after that."
               "The dear child!" said Mrs. Wentworth. "It was just like her. But why did you not tell me of this at the time it happened?"
               "Because if I had, you would have been aware of the ridicule that was heaped upon my poor hood."
               "It would not have troubled me."
               Ellen shook her head laughingly.
               "You think so now that it is all over. But I have an idea that I have seen my dear mother troubled by things of even less consequence, when she imagined that they affected the happiness of her children."
               "Perhaps so," replied Mrs. Wentworth; "mothers are proverbially foolish. But to return to Bessie."
               "Then I thought," continued Ellen, "of her clinging, affectionate, child-like nature, of her generous impulses, of her enthusiastic love for all that is good, and high, and noble, and of her utter want of sympathy and appreciation in her own home. It saddened me, mother, and I felt that with you and William to love and to cherish me, I was more blessed than Bessie Allison."
               The short silence that followed was more eloquent than words. Then William said, as he put back a tress of dark brown hair that had fallen upon his sister's forehead.
               "You do not mean to say that Bessie is not loved by her mother and sister, Ellie? How can they possibly help loving her!"
               Something in William's tone and manner as he said this—for it certainly could not have been his words—made his mother turn suddenly, and look earnestly in his face. In the deepening twilight she saw the red blood mount to his very brow, and then as the transient glow faded, it seemed to her that he was paler than before. But his clear dark eye did not droop or waver, and she read in its lucid depth a story of manly determination, fortitude, and good sense. We trust the romantic reader, if we have any such, will not be too greatly shocked by this climax.
               "You need not fear for me, mother," he said, at last, as Mrs. Wentworth turned away with a half sigh. "I understood your thoughts perfectly, but I understand also what is due to myself and to others. You did not answer my question, Ellen."
               Mrs. Wentworth kissed her son without speaking, and Ellen, who had noticed this little by-play with a mingling of surprise and alarm, could scarcely control her voice to reply.
               "I presume they love her as well as they are capable of loving—which is not saying a great deal. If the house is an ice-house, Mrs. Allison and Margaret are icebergs."
               "Are you not rather severe, Ellen?" asked Mrs. Wentworth. "'Judge not lest ye be judged.'"
               "'By their fruits shall ye know them,'" replied Ellen, giving quotation in return for quotation; "and in this instance the fruits are most assuredly those peculiar to a very cold climate. But I do not quarrel with them for that. If people are born without hearts, it is their misfortune not their faults, and it would not be just to hold them accountable. If they would only be content to leave others in the quiet possession of theirs, I would not have a word to say."
               "And are they not?"
               Ellen smiled a queer little smile.
               "Margaret is the realization of Mrs. Allison's beau ideal; and she has not been furnished with so valueless an appendage. Therefore it is Bessie's duty, as the first step toward an approximation to that standard of excellence, to stifle the throbbings of hers, or to lock it up, and throw the key where no mortal can find it. Such, at least, seems to be Mrs. Allison's view of the matter. I judge merely from appearances, having never exchanged a word with Bessie on the subject."
               "Margaret is very polite to you of late," said William. "How do you account for that? She never entered the house until within the last year."
               "If I were to tell you how I account for it," she replied, half laughing, "mother would say I was uncharitable, and would set me to repeating a certain passage from the epistles, as she used to do when I was a little girl. I will merely suggest, however, that a certain good brother of mine is a pupil of Mr. Warren's."
               "And that at certain hours of the day that gentleman is quite likely to be here," added William."
               Mrs. Wentworth held up her finger with a warning smile.
               "Remember the epistle, children," she said, as she lit a candle. "I fear you both need a lesson or two."
               "Now, mother!" exclaimed Ellen, while the half laugh became a whole one. "But is it not exactly so? Has not the same idea suggested itself to your own mind?"
               "If it has, I never found it necessary to impress it upon the minds of others," was the reply. "Draw the curtains, Ellen, and bring out the stand. I must go to my sewing."
               
               "So must I," said Ellen. "I shall never finish that shirt if I am not more industrious."
               "And if you will indulge me in the extravagance of an extra candle to-night," said William. "I will copy those papers for Mr. Ashley."
               "Wait till to-morrow, Willie. You have been studying all day, and your eyes look as thought they needed rest."
               "To-morrow is the day for my weekly review; and besides I have promised to post those books."
               "For Mr. Newton?"
               "Yes, and they will require all my spare time for several days. I must copy the papers to-night."
               So Ellen brought the extra candle, together with the bundle of papers, and writing implements.
               "This is better than braiding hats, isn't it, Willie?" she asked, as she arranged them upon the table.
               "It is much more profitable, certainly. Oh, Ellen, Mr. Warren has been such a blessing to me! I was so hopeless and helpless and desponding before I became acquainted with him. Every thing looked so dark and dreary that life was a burden, and I lay awake night after night wishing that I might die and be out of the way. I thought I was in every body's way, Ellie; even yours!"
               "I knew it, William, I knew it all. But it is over now. You will never feel so again. You will never yield to such utter despondency."
               "Never," he replied with a bright glance at his sister's face. "Never again. If I can not have legs, I have hands and a head."
               "And you know how to use them."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           If I could hear that laughing voice again—
                           But once again!—how oft it wanders by
                           In the still hours, like some remembered strain,
                           Troubling the heart with its wild melody!
                        
                     
                     HEMANS.
                  
               
               "MARGARET," said Mrs. Allison one morning in the following winter, "the new bureau for the west chamber will be brought home to-day, and I am going to let Debby have the old one. I wish you to empty the drawers this forenoon, and then Tom can help her move it when he comes in to his dinner."
               "What does she want of it?" asked Margaret. "She has that big chest of hers, and boxes and bags without number. I should think she could get along without a bureau. Every drawer in mine is full and running over, so that I can not keep any thing in order, and I was just going to ask you if I couldn't have that one also."
               "Where would you put it?"
               "It will just fill that little recess in my room, for I measured it the other day. I don't see how I can get along without it. I must have something to put my clothes in, in addition to what I have now, if I am required to keep them in perfect order."
               Mrs. Allison meditated for a moment or two.
               "You have that large bureau and closet all to yourself, and the chest of drawers beside. I should think they might suffice. However, I can buy you another bureau if you need it. But I promised the old one to Debby, and she must have it, or she will be cross for a fortnight. She has had her heart set upon it for the last five years."
               "She really needs it, too," said Bessie. "She says that if she wants a pair of stockings or a pocket-handkerchief she has to rummage her things all over, and it keeps them all the while in confusion."
               "There is no necessity for it," said Margaret. "If she would put her stockings in one box, and her pocket-handkerchiefs in another, and so on, she would have no trouble in finding them. I don't believe she ever saw a bureau till she came here."
               "But that was before you ever saw one," replied Bessie, laughing. Then as she saw that her sister did not laugh, but, on the contrary, preserved her very gravest face, she added quickly, "Shall I help you clear out the drawers, Margaret? You said yesterday that you wanted to finish your collar to-day."
               "Mother told you to hem that table-cloth."
               "Oh, I can do that afterward."
               "Well, you may help me if you have a mind to," said Margaret, as she turned to go up stairs; "I don't care one way or the other."
               Bessie knew from older experience that if she did not accept this rather ungracious permission, Margaret would ere long discover that she had needed her assistance very badly, and would be offended because it had not been accorded. So she folded the table-cloth which she had but just unfolded, slipped her thimble into her work-basket, and followed her sister to the west chamber.
               This deep drawer is filled with old papers, letters, and all sorts of trash," said Margaret, as Bessie entered the room. "Go and ask mother what shall be done with them."
               Bessie presently returned, saying that the papers were to be looked over, and such as related to matters of business ness, tied in a bundle by themselves, and deposited in a certain old trunk. The rest were to be destroyed.
               "Carry the drawer to that corner then, and look them over," said Margaret; "you like such business and I can't endure it. Any thing but musty old papers!"
               Nothing could have pleased Bessie better, and in a very few moments she was poring over the yellow and faded relics of the past.
               "Don't stop to read all those letters," said Margaret, presently; "you won't get through to-day if you do."
               "I am not going to read them," was the reply; "but I must examine them closely enough to find what they are about;" and so saying, Bessie glanced rapidly over sheet after sheet, and tossed them upon the floor.
               "I have not found one word about business yet," she said. "They are all friendly letters to one person and another, from people whom I never heard of. I wonder if the one who wrote this is dead!" and she looked with a species of reverential awe upon the scarcely legible characters. "Margaret! here is a letter written to our father before you were born, and it says, 'There is no one event of my past life to which I recur with so much pleasure as to my acquaintance with yourself; and I long to see you, that I may tell you over and over again, how well and how gratefully you are remembered by your affectionate friend, E. S.' How strange it seems!"
               "What seems strange?" asked Margaret, as she shook out the folds of an old shawl.
               Why not strange, exactly. That is not the right word. But it makes me feel sad, Margaret, to think that this worn and yellow sheet of paper should be lying here, when the hand that wrote that loving sentence has turned to dust, and—"
               "You don't know that it has. It may be doing mischief somewhere, for aught you know. Don't go to sentimentalizing now, I beg."
               
               Bessie colored, but left her sentence unfinished, as with compressed lips she proceeded with her work.
               It was not long, however, before she spoke again, and this time her voice was low and tremulous.
               "Margaret! here is a letter written by father himself!—written to mother, for it begins, 'My dear wife.' Oh, how could she leave it here, among all this trash!"
               "Why not? It was safe enough. But there was no need of keeping it, any way. Do be quick, Bessie, you look so long at every thing that you will never get through."
               Bessie laid her father's letter one side, and took up another.
               "What do you put that up there for?" asked Margaret; "it is not a business letter, and mother wanted all the rest burned."
               "I know she did; but I am going to ask her to let me keep just that one. I have not the least scrap of father's hand-writing."
               Margaret repeated her injunction of haste, and the heap of papers upon the floor rapidly increased in size. But ere long the rustling of the leaves ceased, and she turned from the bureau to ascertain its cause. Bessie was bending over a small book which lay in her lap, while her changing color betokened some strong emotion.
               "What have you found now, Bessie? I will examine the papers myself the next time we have such a job."
               "Come here, Margaret, do!" said Bessie, laying her finger upon the open page. "See!"
               Margaret looked over Bessie's shoulder and read the following words:
               "This is my birthday. R. A."
               Underneath was the date, "December 20th, 183—." It was written in large, round characters, evidently those of a school-boy who had not yet become familiar with the mysteries of small-hand.
               "It was Reuben's book," whispered Bessie; "a kind of memorandum-book, I should think. See! here is his name on the first page. And Dec. 20th. Why, this is the 20th. Oh, Margaret! this is Reuben's birthday!"
               Down went the book, and down went Bessie's head in a perfect passion of tears. It came so close home—home to her heart. Reuben's birthday! and where was he? Here were his sisters beneath the roof of the old homestead—a roof to whose shelter his right was equal to theirs—surrounded by every appliance of comfort, and even luxury; well clothed, well fed, well housed; and where was he? Roaming over the wide world, it might be, homeless and friendless; perhaps in penury and degradation; perhaps in his grave.
               Margaret had picked up the little red morocco-covered book, and was examining it with some curiosity, and perhaps a shade of deeper feeling. It was, as Bessie had supposed, a memorandum-book. Upon almost every page there was a note of some event of boyish interest and importance—some written when he first began to wield a pencil, and some after he had grown older. The record upon one page was this, 'To-day I set my speckled hen;' upon another, 'To-day caught three big trout near the old willow-tree;' upon another, 'To-day I began the Latin Grammar; can't bear it;' upon another, 'Went a-hunting to-day with Willie Traver; shot a squirrel. Mother says I mustn't go again,' and so on, to the end of the chapter. It was an epitome of boyish life, with its little round of duties and pleasures.
               At last Margaret threw it down upon the pile of waste papers, with a half sigh, and went back to the bureau again.
               Bessie snatched it up indignantly.
               "Dear Reuben!" she exclaimed. "Poor fellow! Oh, if I could only see him, or know what had become of him!"
               Pretty soon she spoke again.
               
               "How much older than you was he, Margaret?"
               "I don't remember exactly. Two or three years, I presume, may be four."
               "I should think you would recollect more about him than you do."
               Margaret said nothing, but went on with her researches.
               In about ten minutes she replaced the drawers, and went into another room to put away some article of wearing apparel.
               "There, I have done," she said, when she returned, stooping to pick up some shreds and straws from the carpet. "But I see no probability of your getting through to-day. What are you going to do with that book?"
               "Show it to mother," replied Bessie, as she put it in her pocket.
               "You had better not," said Margaret; "she will not want to see it; and beside, she told you to destroy all excepting the business papers."
               "Well, this is a business-paper, or business-book," said Bessie, smiling faintly; "very important to its owner, I doubt not. I think I shall let mother see it."
               "Very well. Do as you think best," and Margaret went down stairs to finish her collar.
               Bessie was not long completing her task, and then, cramming the papers into a large basket, she carried them down stairs, and committed them, handful after handful, to the flames.
               "My! what lots o' old letters," said Debby. "Them that writ'em must have had more'n their share o' time and patience. I declare it seems e'en-a-most too bad to burn 'em up, with such a lot o' good writin' on 'em."
               Bessie smiled, but she was in no mood for chatting with Debby just then. Her thoughts were with Reuben, and she stood silently watching the last sheet until it changed to a heap of gray ashes. Then she put away the basket, and went into the sitting-room.
               Mrs. Allison was assorting some linen which was piled upon the table before her.
               "What is this?" she asked, as Bessie laid the little book in her lap.
               "Something I found among the papers in the deep drawer," she replied.
               Mrs. Allison carelessly took it up, and turned over a leaf or two. She did not at first comprehend its character; but when she did, a faint tinge of crimson stole over her cheek, and up to the fall of rich lace which shaded her forehead.
               "What did you bring it to me for?" she said, coldly. "Go put it in the fire."
               "Mother! It was Reuben's book, mother!" exclaimed Bessie. It seemed to her that her mother did not understand what it was, or she could not have given such an order.
               "I know it."
               Bessie took the book from the hand that was extending it toward her, but she did not move, save that her head sank lower and lower, while her cheeks glowed until it appeared as if the blood would burst through.
               "Why do you not do as I bade you?" asked Mrs. Allison.
               "It is Reuben's birthday to-day, mother! See!" and Bessie turned quickly to the entry of which we have spoken. "It is the 20th of December."
               "I know that, too," said Mrs. Allison, as she took up another pair of pillow-cases.
               "Will you not keep the book, mother?" asked Bessie, timidly, after she had stood there several minutes longer, waiting in vain for her mother to say something else.
               "No."
               
               "May I keep it, then?"
               "I told you to put it in the fire, did I not?"
               Bessie stooped to pick up the little book, which had fallen upon the floor, and turned to leave the room, with her breast heaving and her lips in a quiver. As she did so, she met Margaret's cold, calm eye; and it said so plainly, "What a dunce you are, Bessie Allison; did I not tell you how it would be?" that the composure she had been struggling to maintain gave way at once. Smothering a sob, she sprang back to her mother's side, and, with a sudden burst of feeling, threw her arms around her neck.
               "Mother, dear mother!" she exclaimed. "Do let me keep the book. I can not burn it, indeed I can not. Look at it, mother! There is something upon almost every page, and it was commenced when Reuben was a little, little boy and could hardly write his name. Oh! I know you loved him then, mother. Do keep the book, or let me keep it."
               Mrs. Allison did look at the book for she could not very well help it, with Bessie's arm still encircling her mother's neck. Bessie laid it upon her lap again, and opening it at random, read memorandum after memorandum. How vividly they recalled to her mental vision the handsome, fearless, high-spirited boy whom she yet indistinctly remembered! She almost saw the gleam of his wavy hair, and caught the echo of his laughing voice. But it was for an instant only. A fleeting shadow from the past, it stole before her memory for a moment, and then faded. Her voice grew fainter and fainter; at length it ceased, and three or four large bright drops fell in rapid succession upon the page and upon Mrs. Allison's hand.
               "Bessie! he was a willful, passionate boy—a disobedient son."
               Bessie glanced eagerly at her mother's face. Was her heart touched? Surely there was an unusual tremor in her voice.
               "But he was my brother—the only one I had," she pleaded, "and he was your son."
               "He forgot his duty to me," continued Mrs. Allison "he refused to obey me, he disgraced and insulted me, and preferred strangers to his own mother."
               "But he was so young, mother!"
               "He was old enough to know his duty and to do it," said Mrs. Allison, sternly. If her heart had been momentarily softened, it was fast hardening again as she thus recapitulated her son's errors and her own wrongs. "You are meddling with what does not concern you, Bessie. You understand nothing of this matter."
               "But I would like to understand it, mother," said Bessie. "What made him run away?"
               It was a thoughtlessly uttered and an ill-timed question. Bessie repented it before the words were fairly out of her mouth.
               "Go put this book in the fire as I bade you," said Mrs. Allison, "and ask me no impertinent questions. I have humored this folly of yours too long already, and I will hear no more of it. You forget yourself strangely."
               Bessie obeyed, but instead of returning to the sitting-room, she went up stairs to her own chamber.
               "Margaret, go and find Bessie. I wish her to finish this table-cloth," said Mrs. Allison, a little while afterward.
               "She has not commenced it yet," remarked that young lady as she departed in quest of her sister.
               She soon found her, and made known her mission.
               "You are so foolish, Bessie!" she said, glancing at her flushed cheeks and swollen eyes. "What did possess you? If you wanted that book (and what good it would have done you is more than I can imagine) why could you not have kept it and said nothing? You never can do any thing quietly, but must get up some sort of a fuss and excitement. You might have known what mother would say."
               "But I wanted her to see it," replied Bessie. "It did seem to me that it would make her think of the time when Reuben was a little frolicsome boy, and that she would be less bitter against him."
               "And why should you care about that? Reuben isn't here, and it makes no difference what her feelings are. He can't be affected by them, one way or the other."
               "I know that—but—oh, Margaret! it is so terrible to me to think of a son who has no place in his mother's heart. If she would only love him a little! and then she would forgive him—she could not help it. And, Margaret, perhaps if you had said a word, just one word, to let mother know that you felt as I do about it, she—"
               "Pshaw!" said Margaret, as they were descending the stairs. "I am not so fond of meddling with other people's business, or of burning my own fingers, either. Besides, what right have you to suppose that I do feel as you do about it? I know Reuben was a perfect torment, always in some mischief or other."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           There is more owing her than is paid,
                           And more shall be paid her than she'll demand
                        
                     
                     ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
                  
               
               THE old bureau was moved into Debby's room and placed in the very corner to which she had mentally consigned it five years before. Very dignified and stately was it, in spite of the stains and scratches upon its venerable face, which had rendered it, in Mrs. Allison's opinion, an unfit companion for the more modern furniture of the west chamber. When contrasted with the humbler appointment of its present location, however, it seemed to have recovered much of its pristine glory, and to look down upon the innumerable boxes and baskets, to which Margaret had referred, with a spirit of quiet contempt.
               The next afternoon as Bessie was passing the door of Debby's room, she heard a voice within, and gently pushing it open, she peeped in. Thanks to the elasticity of her spirits, they had already rebounded from the depression of yesterday, and her face wore its usual brightness. She was the child of light, rather than of darkness—born of the sunbeam, rather than of the shadow. An innocent and child-like gayety was native to her, and had she breathed a genial atmosphere it would have ripened into genuine heart sunshine.
               Debby was standing at the bureau, arranging the contents of one of the above-mentioned baskets in the deep drawer. That is, such was her ostensible business. But for two or three minutes she stood perfectly motionless with a pair of stockings in her hand, and her eyes fixed upon vacancy (by which we mean a crack in the whitewashed wall), while Bessie remained in the doorway watching her.
               At length with a smile upon her lip the latter stole quietly across the room, and gave her a playful tap upon the shoulder.
               Debby started from her reverie, and looked quickly round.
               "Mercy on us, Bessie!" she exclaimed; "I want to know if it's you? You scared me near about to death."
               "Yes, it's me," said Bessie, laughing. "Don't you want some help?"
               "Oh, I ain't in any sich a dreadful hurry this afternoon," was the reply. "But I don't care if you fix these flumididdles here, these ere collars that you made me last winter, and them caps that your mother gave me for a New Year's present. I hain't worn none on 'em yet—and mercy knows when I shall."
               "Why don't you wear them?" asked Bessie, as she unfolded a towel and spread it on the bottom of one of the small drawers. "There! you must keep all your collars, and caps, and ribbons, and such things in here by themselves, where they won't be in danger of getting tumbled. Dear me, Debby! Don't you wonder how people live who have n't a bureau?—Give me those gloves and I will lay them in here too.—Isn't it wonderful how they contrive to get along at all?"
               Debby gravely assented.
               "Why, what ails you, Debby? Why don't you laugh when I am trying my best to make myself agreeable? You say 'Yes' as soberly as if I had asked you the most important question in the world."
               "Mercy on us, child! I didn't hear the fust word o' what you was saying. What was't that you axed me? I don't know no more'n if I'd been deaf as a door-post."
               "I asked you if you didn't wonder how any body could live without a bureau?" said Bessie.
               "Oh! that was it, eh? And I said 'Yes,' jest like a great fool. 'T ain't no wonder't you laughed at me. I'd ha' laughed if I'd been you. But, Bessie, somehow I don't feel near so glad about this bureau as I thought I was goin' to. I've wanted it dreadfully this great while, and now somehow I don't feel a mite pleased;" and Debby sighed heavily.
               "I am sorry," said Bessie. "Isn't it large enough?"
               "Oh, dear me, yes!" responded Debby. "It's big enough. 'Tain't no fault of the bureau. It's only because I don't feel just right, I s'pose."
               "But why don't you feel right, Debby? What is the trouble?"
               "Oh! 'tain't much of any thing. Leastwise 't ain't worth while troublin' you with it. You can't do me any good."
               "You don't know that," said Bessie, laying her own soft hand with a light, caressing touch upon the large brown fingers which rested on the bureau. "You don't know that. I can do great things sometimes. Do tell me, Debby."
               Debby snatched her hand away and drew it quickly over her eyes. Then turning so that Bessie could not see her face, she commenced rummaging among the various boxes and baskets, apparently in anxious search after something which was not to be found.
               But Bessie understood the subterfuge. Stealing gently behind her she put both arms around her waist.
               "Do tell me, Debby," she repeated. "You comforted me a great many times when I was a little girl and thought I had some terrible trial. Now I want to comfort you."
               "Dear me!" exclaimed Debby again, half beside herself, and struggling to escape from the encircling arms. "You're the greatest comfort I've got already, Bessie, and there ain't no use in your botherin' your head about me. You jest go down stairs and see what Margaret's a doin'. I'll feel better bimeby."
               "Margaret is not down stairs, or mother either. They have gone to the parsonage, and I am not going out of this room until you tell me what you are feeling so badly about, Debby. Oh! I have not thought, of the letter that you had last night, until this very minute. That's it, I know! Now sit down here in your rocking-chair, Debby, and tell me all about it. Is any body sick?"
               "Well, if I must, I s'pose I must," replied Debby, as she seated herself. "I never see sich a girl as you be, Bessie. You allus make me do jest as you have a mind to."
               "Then I should think you would obey me without making such an ado about it," said Bessie, laughing; "but how is it about the letter? who was it from?"
               "From my brother Jonathan's wife; and they're in great tribilation. You see, Jonathan's allus been one o' the onfortinites. It seems, somehow, as if there was some folks in this world who couldn't do nothin', nor be nothin', nor have nothin', if they tried ever so hard. Jonathan's allus been a hard-workin' man, but he ain't no calkilator, and things never do turn out as he thinks they're a goin' to. He got married very young, afore he came of age, and they've got a great family to support, and they're clear behindhand. And they're allus like to be, fur's I know," added Debby, bringing her hand down upon her knee by way of emphasis.
               "But you have told me this many a time," said Bessie; "what is the particular trouble now?"
               "Oh! the same old story, only wus and wus. Something's allus a happenin' to 'em. Two or three months ago their barn got a-fire, and they lost all their hay; and now the cow's up and died, and they hain't got no milk for the young ones, nor no butter, nor nothin'. The old woman's had a spell o' the rheumatiz, too, and—"
               "Your mother?" interrupted Bessie, "she lives with them, doesn't she?"
               "Yes, but she ain't no bill of expense to 'em, nor hain't never been. She sews and knits, and 'tends to the baby—and there's a baby to 'tend to the whole durin' time, and I've bought every rag o' clothin' she's had these ten year back, and kept her in tea and sugar besides. And I've allus paid the doctor bill when she's been sick. So she hain't been no drawback to 'em," she continued, musingly.
               "Their house was burned two or three years ago, was it not?"
               "Of course't was. Somehow it don't seem to be no fault o' their'n, but every thing goes wrong with 'em, and I don't see no chance of its goin' any other ways. But the wust on't is," continued Debby, after another meditative pause, "the oldest darter—she's jest about as old as you be, Bessie, and a real nice girl too—seems to be a runnin' down, goin' into a decline, like. And I'm sure I don't know what's goin' to become o' the child."
               "Is she so very sick?" asked Bessie.
               "Her mother says she is just able to drag herself round, and looks like a ghost, white as a sheet. Oh, dear! she had such round red cheeks the last time I see her, and I thought to myself she was just as handsome as a pictur'. She was a good girl, too, allus a-tryin' to help her folks, when she wa'n't knee high to a grasshopper. I s'pose she's worked too hard, poor thing!" and Debby wiped away a tear with the corner of her checked apron.
               "But why is not something done for her?" said Bessie; "she is not past help, is she?"
               "That's the very thing," replied Debby; "but how is it goin' to be done? Sally writes that the child is dreadful low-spirited, and thinks she's got to die for sartin—leastwise that there ain't but one thing that'll save her. Two years ago, when she was to Lowell to work, she had a sick spell, and was near about as bad as she is now; but a doctor that lives there cured her up, and she's got a notion in her head that if she should go and see him, she'd get well right off—and that there ain't no man livin' who can help her but jest him."
               "She ought to go," said Bessie; "she ought to go, by all means."
               "I know that; but they ain't able to send her, and Sally wrote now to see if I couldn't let 'em have twenty dollars. But I hain't got it, Bessie; see here, child," she added, taking an old-fashioned pocket-book out of one corner of the drawer. "I hain't got but just four dollars and fifty cents in the world, and there ain't nothin' comin' to me, now, nuther. Your mother and me looked over the account t'other day, so I know just how it stands."
               "Mother would advance you the money, if you were to ask her, I am almost sure, Debby."
               "I think it's more'n likely't she would. But I ain't willin' to ax her. I'm willin' to let 'em have my wages jest as fast as I can earn 'em, and I've gin' 'em every cent I could spare, and more too for a great many years back, but I ain't willin' to run in debt for 'em. I never did for myself, and I can't for nobody else. It's agin my principles, and my natur' likewise."
               Bessie was silent—thinking of the unequal distribution of wealth, of the self-sacrificing life of one, and of the self-indulgence of another, and of the sick girl, sinking into an early grave, perhaps, for the want of a few dollars.
               Presently Debby proceeded,
               "I should ha' laid up money, and been purty well off for a lone woman like me, if I hadn't allus been a doin' for my folks; I've gin' away fust and last, more'n half my wages. I've only just clothed myself decently, just well enough, so't your mother wouldn't think I was disgracin' on her, and all the rest has gone to fill other people's mouths, and keep other people's backs warm. I don't say this in no complainin' sperit, Bessie, I don't begrudge 'em a single penny on't, and I'm glad I had it to give, only I s'pose folks will think it is queer that I've been at work all my days, and can't raise twenty dollars now. They used to tell me when I was a leetle bit of a girl that I couldn't eat my cake and keep it too. And it is jest the same if you let other folks eat it as if you eat it yourself."
               "But not quite as pleasant, always," said Bessie, smiling, but with tears in her eyes; "that is, if you happen to be hungry yourself, as you have been sometimes, I imagine, Debby. Now I know why you changed your mind so suddenly about getting your cloak, last winter."
               "Yes, I needed it dreadfully—that's a fact. But jest as I was ready to buy it, Jonathan came here, and I see't he was needier'n I was, by a great sight. So I let him have the money, and told him to buy some good, stout, warm clothes for hisself, so't the wind wouldn't blow him away when he was to work. But, mercy! it's arter five o'clock, and the tea-kettle ain't on. I must go down this very minute. Now, Bessie, don't you be a lookin' sober and a worryin' about me. I shall feel better to-morrow, arter I've had a good night's rest. Last night I kep a thinkin' about that poor child, and I couldn't sleep a wink. It seemed as if I wanted to take her right up in my arms, and carry her all the way to Lowell."
               So saying, Debby hastily swept the articles that were lying on the top of the bureau into the "deep drawer," shut it, pushed a box or two back against the wall, picked up the letter of her brother's wife, which was lying on the floor, and put it in her pocket, and then went down stairs to get tea.
               Bessie stood by the window, at the head of the back stairs, looking out upon the sober winter landscape for many minutes. The short twilight was fast deepening into night, and one by one the stars were gathering in the darkening skies, burning with an intense luster of which summer never dreams. One by one, too, the stars of home, the evening lamps, beamed through the village windows, shedding a ruddy gleam far out into the snow-clad street. Husbands and fathers were hurrying home-ward, and here and there a belated school-boy, dragging his sled behind him, or with a pair of skates dangling from his arm, went with a hop and a run toward the paternal mansion, urged on by the strong incentive of a keen appetite and the attractions of the tea-table. It was a scene of quiet, homely cheerfulness, but Bessie scarcely heeded it. She was thinking of Debby's poor niece, young as herself, and a few short months ago as full of life, and hope, and energy; but now pale, languid, dying by inches, and unable, for lack of means, to adopt measures that might restore her to health.
               For the last three or four years, Mrs. Allison had given her daughters a quarterly allowance, with which she expected them to defray all their personal expenses. At first, Margaret's allowance had been larger than Bessie's; for, as the eldest of the two, figuring as a young lady, while the youngest was still a school-girl, it was to be expected that she would be obliged to make more frequent demands upon her purse. But this year the amount allowed them was precisely the same.
               Mrs. Allison went out that evening to attend a meeting of the directresses of the Female Missionary Society, leaving the two girls alone in the sitting-room.
               "Do sit down and be quiet, Bessie," said Margaret, after the lapse of perhaps fifteen minutes. "How do you suppose that I can read while you are in such a perfect fidget? I believe you have moved every thing on the table twenty times, at the very least, and I won't pretend to say how often you have changed your seat."
               "Put down your book, sis, and take your sewing," was the reply. "It's lonesome, and I want to talk."
               "You generally do. But talk away—I can hear you."
               "Margaret, have you any money to spare?"
               "I have no more than I can find use for," she replied. "Why do you ask that question?"
               "Oh, because—I'll tell you by and by. But how much have you, any way?"
               "I have just fifteen dollars left of this quarter's allowance, if you must know," said Margaret, drawing out her purse. "I suppose I may be allowed to ask the same question. How much have you?"
               "Only ten dollars," said Bessie. "I wonder how it happens that I have spent more than you?"
               "I presume Ellen Wentworth could answer that question. You seem to think that you can not buy a collar for yourself without getting one for her too. And I believe you consider yourself under obligations to furnish William with stockings and cravats."
               "Why, Margaret! You know better. I have given Ellen only one collar this year, and I carried William two pair of stockings last fall, just for the fun of the thing. I never gave him a cravat."
               "Well, you hemmed some for him, if you did not buy them."
               "That's true. Ellen was very busy, and I was not, just at that time, so I offered to hem them. I had to get a new hat this winter, and you did not."
               "By the by," said Margaret, as she took a folded paper per from her pocket, "Mr. Warren was talking this afternoon about the hard times, and the suffering among the poorer classes in Morristown, and said he wished we could do something for them here in Lanmere. I told him I would engage to raise fifty dollars among the young ladies, and he drew up this subscription-paper for me. He seemed so much pleased and interested that I put down five dollars for myself, to begin with, and five for you."
               Bessie colored to the roots of her hair; but as she almost always did that, under the influence of any sudden emotion, whether pleasing or otherwise, Margaret was not at all surprised.
               "I am sorry, Margaret," said the former, at last, "because I can not give it, and it must be crossed off."
               "Not give it! Why not? I expected you would think you must give five dollars, just because I did. I never dreamed of your refusing."
               "I can not spare the money."
               "You just said you had ten dollars."
               "But I have disposed of them already—mentally, that is," said Bessie; "and that was what I wanted to talk with you about."
               Margaret listened in perfect silence while Bessie related her conversation with Debby, and repeated the story of her sick and suffering niece.
               "They wrote to Debby for twenty dollars," she said, in conclusion, "and if she can send it to them, the poor girl can go to Lowell and see that doctor. I shall give her my money, Debby can send five dollars, and if you will give five also, it will be all she needs."
               "Pshaw! I am not going to send ten dollars, or five either, to Jonathan Wilkins. He is a shiftless, lazy fellow, I know, for they are always in trouble. If he can not support his own family, they may go without support for all me. Let him work like other folks,"
               "But, Margaret, Debby says he has always worked hard, but that he has had a great many misfortunes. And even if he is lazy and shiftless, that does not help the case of this poor girl. She is not accountable for it."
               "Perhaps she is sick, and perhaps she is not," said Margaret, with a toss of her head. "One never knows when to believe such people. They can invent a plausible story any time. But you never can do any thing as others do. Instead of joining with the rest of us, and giving what you have to spare to this Morristown cause, where it will count up and amount to something, you must needs go hunting about in nooks and corners in search of somebody upon whom to bestow your charities. It is too bad! I thought that if you and I gave ten dollars, I could easily raise the fifty, and Mr. Warren would be so much pleased."
               "I did not hunt for this object of charity," said Bessie, "I found it lying at my very feet, and would have been obliged to step over it in order to go to Morristown. Charity begins at home."
               Margaret muttered something by way of reply, and resumed her book again with an offended air. Bessie sat looking at the coals in the grate, and beating time with her foot, while the hand that lay upon the table played an accompaniment to some mental melody.
               "Do take your work, Bessie, or a book, or something," said Margaret, impatiently. "You are idling away the whole evening."
               "I was thinking," replied Bessie, with a bright smile, shaking back her wavy tresses as she spoke, "I have it all planned out now. You pay that five dollars for me on the Morristown paper, and I will hand it to you again just as soon as I get my next quarter's allowance—which will be in less than a fortnight."
               "I won't," said Margaret, dashing down her book, "that's positive. If you choose to send your money to that Wilkins girl, why, send it. But don't expect to borrow of me."
               "You can let me have it just as well as not, Margaret."
               "That's neither here nor there. Come, don't be such a fool, Bessie," she continued, as she imagined she saw tokens of indecision on her sister's face. "Mr. Warren and Miss Grace will think it very strange if you don't give any thing, and I should prefer pleasing them to pleasing Debby or Jonathan, or any of the rest of the Wilkins tribe."
               "I do not do it to please any body in particular," replied Bessie. "But I am so sorry for that poor sick Nelly, and if my ten dollars will carry her to Lowell, she shall go there."
               "Very well," said Margaret, taking up her pencil and drawing two or three heavy black lines across Bessie's name, "Mr. Warren will understand just how much dependence can be placed upon your aid the next time he wishes to get up any thing of this kind. And I advise you not to make any apologies about it either, for that will only make matters worse. It appears so self-conceited in you—as if you thought you knew so much more than the rest of us."
               A shadow passed over Bessie's face, and for a moment she did indeed waver. She knew Margaret was right in supposing that Mr. Warren and Miss Grace would wonder at her refusal to join in the Morristown enterprise, and she did not like to volunteer any explanation of the matter to them, lest it should seem like boasting of her own good deeds.
               "You can explain it to them if you choose, Margaret," she said, at length.
               "I shall not trouble myself to do so," was the reply. "If you are determined to have your own way, you must take the consequences."
               Mrs. Allison came in just then, with a brown paper parcel in her hand.
               "I stepped into the book-store as I was coming past," she said, laying it on the table by Margaret's side, "to look at the book of which you spoke this afternoon. The clerk said there was but one copy left, and I brought it home lest it should be gone before you could go after it. You can pay for it to-morrow."
               Margaret bowed her head in assent and thanks, but said nothing; and although Bessie was very curious to know what the book was, she asked no questions. The case of "Morristown versus Wilkins" was brought up again, and discussed pro and con. Mrs. Allison, however, although strongly in favor of the Morristown side, laid no commands upon Bessie, and she did not falter in her resolution.
               When they went up stairs that night, Margaret carried the book under her arm, and deposited it carefully in her bureau drawer. But after she had tied on her night-cap so great was her desire to examine her treasure, that she took it out again, cut the twine, folded back the stiff outer paper, and the softer one within, and gazed admiringly upon the beautiful volume.
               The desire to display it very naturally followed, and slipping on her double gown, she stepped across the hall to Bessie's room.
               "There!" said she, holding it in such a position that the rays of the lamp could fall directly upon the rich binding; "see what I am going to send to Mr. Warren and Miss Grace for a New Year's present. It is the handsomest book in Landmere—or at least there is only one handsomer."
               "It is a perfect beauty," exclaimed Bessie, while her eyes sparkled; "I never saw such a beautiful book! What is it?"
               "Spenser's works," was the reply. "There was a splendid copy of Shakespeare which I wanted to get. But mother thought that was not a suitable present for a minister."
               "I don't believe this is much better," said Bessie, who was carefully turning the leaves, skimming a line here and there. "Oh, I wish I could read it. Mr. Warren has two copies of Shakspeare already, so it is well that mother objected to your getting another. But how came she to let you get this?"
               "Oh, she does not know any thing about the book, or I either; but I heard Mr. Warren tell Miss Grace, one day last fall, that the next time he went to New York he should treat himself to a copy of Spenser's entire works. So I supposed it was all right, of course."
               "You seem to have consulted Mr. Warren's taste exclusively," said Bessie, slyly glancing at Margaret from beneath her long lashes; "I thought the present was for Miss Grace also."
               "So it is. But you know I did not feel so particular about her. She will like any thing her brother does. The only reason I give it to her at all," added Margaret, blushing a little, and simpering a good deal, "is that mother thinks it would perhaps look indelicate, under the circumstances, for me to make him a present all for himself. So I shall put Miss Grace's name in too. Let me have it now; you've looked long enough, and I want to go to bed."
               Bessie stood by her dressing-table for some time, wondering what "the circumstances" were. Was Margaret engaged to Mr. Warren? She hardly thought so. Yet upon reflection, she recollected that he had called at their house much more frequently of late, and that Margaret always seemed to take the calls to herself.
               "And she is so anxious to please him," she thought, as she blew out the lamp, and laid her head on her pillow. "It must be so! Well, I suppose she will make a good minister's wife—she is so steady—and so—"
               Bessie did not finish the sentence. Neither will we. But it was with a smothered sigh that she slipped her ten dollars into Debby's hand the next morning, telling her to send them to Nelly Wilkins. And in spite of Debby's tearful thanks and blessings, she could not help remembering that she was running the risk of being thought parsimonious by Mr. Warren, and that, moreover, she was debarred the privilege of making any New Year's presents.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           This fever that hath troubled me so long
                           Lies heavy on me.
                        
                     
                     SHAKESPEARE.
                  
               
               AS the spring opened, it became evident to all those who were most interested in William Wentworth, that his general health was declining. He was not sick, in the common acceptation of the word, but he was weak, incapable of endurance, and seemed to be slowly failing. His lameness, on the other hand, was decreasing. With the aid of a crutch, or rather of a peculiarly fashioned cane—the invention of Dr. Elliot himself—he could walk with comparative ease and comfort; and his friends began to cherish a slight hope that at some distant day he might be able to dispense with that also. But this was a mere possibility, not a probability. Meantime he had been making rapid progress in his studies, and was already prepared to enter the sophomore class in any one of our colleges.
               "What do you think of William Wentworth's case, doctor?" asked Mr. Warren one morning in April, as he happened to meet Dr. Elliot on the sidewalk; "do you consider it dangerous?"
               "He is in no immediate danger, I trust," replied the doctor, as he turned and walked along by Mr. Warren's side; "but I have been wishing to talk with you about this very matter, and was meditating a call at the parsonage to-day."
               "In no immediate danger, you say. But that implies danger in the future—just what I have been fearing."
               "Yes," said Dr. Elliot, "I must acknowledge to you that I have great fears myself. Yet he is by no means past help—could we not manage to send the young man on a sea-voyage, Mr. Warren? It would be of more service to him than any thing else, or than all things else combined. He needs no medicine. Change of scene and air are the remedial agents he requires."
               "If he had some friend to accompany him," said Mr. Warren, "I should second your motion most heartily, and I am sure that, as far as the expense is concerned, it can be managed easily enough. But in his enfeebled state it seems hazardous to send him alone."
               "I have thought of all that, sir," replied the good doctor, "and I believe I can do away with that difficulty. I have a nephew who commands one of the steamships running between New York and Liverpool; and if we could once get William on board of her, I am sure that Captain Grey would, for my sake, bestow upon him every attention—that he would take care of him, in short, as if he were a brother."
               "It shall be brought about then, without delay," said Mr. Warren; "I will be one of five who shall agree to defray all the expenses of the journey."
               "And I will be another," responded the doctor.
               "Mr. Ashley would be a third, I am very sure."
               "And that factory man—what's his name?—would be a fourth, I don't doubt. William has done a good deal of writing for him, and he told me yesterday that a capital business-man had been spoiled by his lameness."
               "And a capital scholar and professional man formed, I trust," replied Mr. Warren, laughing. "We shall find the fifth easily enough. If it can be managed in no other way, his mother and sister would step into the gap. But the sum they have been laying by, a few shillings at a time, during the past year, was designed to meet the expenses penses of his first year at college, and I should dislike to see it touched for any other purpose."
               "It shall not be," said Dr. Elliot. "They'll need every cent of it, and plenty more beside, before he gets his diploma. Mr. Newton or Mr. Guernsey, would either of them join us, willingly."
               "I will see them about it to-day. When does the 'Mariner' leave New York, on her next voyage, doctor?"
               "On the tenth of May, I believe," said the doctor, pulling a newspaper from his pocket. "Yes—on the tenth. That leaves him three weeks to make his arrangements—plenty of time—more than enough. I wish there was not half as much. But I must bid you good-morning, Mr. Warren, I have any amount of business on hand. Will you be able to see William, to-day? I doubt whether I shall find time to call."
               "Oh! yes, I was on my way thither now, and will tell him of our fine project;" and with mutual bows they parted, one going up and the other down street.
               A voyage across the Atlantic, even in one of the finest steamers of the Collins line, was a most formidable undertaking in the eyes of Mrs. Wentworth; and for half a day it seemed very doubtful whether she could be persuaded to give her consent. Visions of shipwrecks, of a stranded vessel, of pale starvation, and of all the horrors incident to a fearful storm at sea, of sudden sickness and a burial in the deep, crowded upon her, and she felt as if she could not allow her son to incur the risk of exposure to such dangers. But his pallid lip and cheek were even more powerful advocates than Mr. Warren and Dr. Elliot. Ellen, too, was strongly in favor of the project, and William himself said that the bare thought of the fresh sea-breeze, of dashing waves, and all the exhilarating sights and sounds of the vast ocean, had already given him new strength and vigor. What, then, could the mother do but bid him good speed, with an earnest uplifting of the heart to Him in whose hands are the issues of life, and with deep gratitude to the friends who were thus generously aiding him?
               The three weeks that intervened between the time of this decision and the next sailing of the "Mariner" sped swiftly. The news soon spread throughout the village, and every body was aware of the important fact that William Wentworth was going to England. Some approved and some disapproved, but all united in wishing him a prosperous journey and a safe return.
               "I guess you'll be able to run as fast as I can, when you come back," said Henry Marsh, who was now a fine, active lad, full of the effervescing life and energy of boyhood. "But oh! how I wish there was no need of your going at all. What can I do for you while you are gone, William? or before you go, either? I want to do something."
               "I presume I can find some errands for you before I start," replied William, smiling, as he looked down upon the eager, upturned face. "It will be strange if I can not. I have sometimes thought I called on you too often, and that you would get tired of being my errand-boy."
               "Oh, William!" exclaimed the boy, with tears in his eyes; "I am so glad to do any thing for you! You would not have needed an errand-boy if it had not been for me, and I can never forget what I owe you."
               "I believe it, my dear Henry. You are only too grateful," said William, as he clasped the sun-burnt hand which sought his own. "But I will tell you what you may do to help my sister Ellen while I am gone, and that will be the same as if you were helping me."
               "I know it," replied Henry, "and I shall be glad to do it, I promise beforehand."
               "Even if I should want you to play schoolmaster?"
               
               "Oh! but you wouldn't ask that, because you would know I could n't do it. Any thing in reason, I mean."
               "Well—if you would like to do it, you may take a look at the garden occasionally, and keep it free from weeds. That will save her some hours of hard labor, and she will be greatly obliged to you."
               "I'll do it!" cried Henry. "When you come back you shall not see a sign of a weed any where about the premises. And I'll pole the beans, and fix the frame for the tomatoes, and—"
               "You will take good care of it, I don't doubt. And now, if you will, you may carry these two books to the parsonage, and give them to Miss Grace, with my thanks."
               "Yes—I will go round there on my way home. But, William, what makes Miss Grace so good?"
               "So good?" asked William, laughing. "What do you mean?"
               "Why, I think she is the best woman who ever lived. Don't you? Mother says she is a born lady, and a great scholar, and she has such pretty ways and speaks so sweetly. And yet she ain't a bit afraid of poor folks, and she'll do anything for 'em! Last night mother sent me down to Johnny McLaughlin's. You know his wife has got the fever—and there was Miss Grace in that little dark room, rocking the sick baby, and hushing it to sleep, while with her other hand she was stirring some gruel that she was making for its mother. And when the baby was asleep she laid it down and undressed little Tommy, and Mary, and put them in the trundle-bed. Mary cried for her mother, and so Miss Grace sat down by her side, and told her stories, and sang to her until she forgot all her trouble and was happy as could be! I thought she looked just like an angel!"
               "God bless her!" said William, with glistening eyes. "She is as near one as mortal can be."
               "So mother says. But I must go now, for it is growing dark. I'll come in again to-morrow to see if you have another errand for me," and away he bounded.
               It was the evening before William's departure for New York, and there was quite a gathering of his friends in Mrs. Wentworth's little parlor. Miss Grace was there, and Mr. Warren, and Dr. Elliot, and Mr. Ashley; and ere long the number was increased by Margaret and Bessie Allison. The former joined the group in the parlor, but the latter, after glancing around and ascertaining that Ellen was not there, went off in pursuit of her.
               She found her friend up stairs in William's room, packing his trunk. Ellen welcomed her with a smile, but did not rise from her knees. Bessie watched her silently for a few moments as she continued her labors, and then laughed gayly.
               "You may as well stop, Ellen. You are spending your strength for naught. Unless that trunk has a wonderful power of expansion, you can not put half these things in it."
               Ellen glanced ruefully at the unpacked shirts and stockings, and all the appertainings of a traveler's wardrobe, and then at the half-filled trunk.
               "I believe you are right. It will hold less than I thought. Mr. Warren spoke of a trunk this morning, and I told him we had one that was large enough; but it seems I was mistaken. If I could get hold of a boy, I would send to the store for a new one."
               But Bessie's thoughts had already flown to a certain corner of the garret of her mother's house, where a trunk sufficiently capacious for William's use had been standing for many years.
               "No, no," she said. "Don't do that. There is a trunk at our house which will be just the thing, and I think mother can spare it as well as not. We never use it. See!" she added, drawing aside the curtain and glancing out into the moonlit street, "it is almost as light as day. Run over home with me, and we will get it. Tom can bring it for us."
               Ellen threw on her sun-bonnet, and, slipping out at the back-door, they were soon at Mrs. Allison's.
               Bessie speedily made known her errand.
               "What trunk do you mean?" asked Mrs. Allison. "There is none up garret that I remember. Nothing that is in traveling order, certainly."
               "Yes, mother. I am sure there is—away back in the south corner, under the rafters. I saw it last week."
               "I do not recollect any such trunk," said Mrs. Allison, as she arose and took a lamp from the table; "but we can go and see. The young man can take it, if there is one there, although it appears to me," she continued, turning to Ellen, "that he is about to try a very hazardous experiment. I was telling Mr. Warren only yesterday that I thought home was the best place for invalids."
               So saying, she slowly swept up stairs, while Bessie and Ellen followed, arm in arm.
               "Wait a moment," whispered the former, as she darted into a closet and quickly emerged again, bearing a broom and dust-brush. "I presume the dust is an inch deep."
               The single lamp shed a dim, uncertain light around them as they ascended the garret-stairs, and it was not until their eyes had become somewhat accustomed to the darkness that they ventured to make their way over the rough, uneven floor, encumbered as it was by boxes, barrels, piles of waste newspapers, lumbering old furniture, and all the paraphernalia of a garret.
               "Let me take the lamp, please, mother," said Bessie, "and I will show you the trunk. I know exactly where it is," and taking it from Mrs. Allison's hand, she led the way toward the furthest corner.
               "There it is," she continued, pointing to a trunk of medium size whose outlines were faintly discernible beneath the dark rafters. "But wait. Hold the lamp, Ellen, while I pull it out where we can see what kind of an animal it is. There, mother, it seems to be all in order."
               "Brush off the dust," said Mrs. Allison. "I see you have a broom. Carefully, carefully, child, or you will smother me."
               Bessie obeyed, removing the coating of dust so adroitly that neither her mother's lungs or nerves were disturbed in the least. This process over, they beheld a nice black leather trunk with brass nails upon the top, forming the letters R. A.
               "That's the very thing," said Bessie. "It is large enough, is it not, Ellen?"
               "I should think so. It is much larger than the one I was packing."
               "The lock needs oiling, but that can be done easily. What do you think about it, mother?"
               "Take it, if you think it will answer," was the reply. "I had forgotten that there was such an one. Send Tom up here after it."
               "Oh! we can carry it down ourselves, can't we, Ellen?" said Bessie, taking hold of one of the handles and lifting it from the floor, as if to try its weight. "It is very light."
               Ellen took the other handle, and they carried it down to the hall without any difficulty.
               "Now I will find Tom," said Bessie, "and he will carry it to your house in less than no time."
               Ellen glanced at the clock. It was half-past eight.
               "I ought to have commenced packing earlier," she said; "but after I dismissed my scholars, I had any amount of last stitches to set, and last steps to take, and I did not realize that it was so late. I am making you a great deal of trouble, Bessie."
               
               Bessie replied only with a smile, and darted away to the kitchen.
               But Tom was nowhere to be found.
               "He slicked himself up arter tea, and went some-wheres or nuther," said Debby. "Mercy knows where; I don't pretend to keep no track of him. But what's a wantin' of him, Bessie?"
               She hastily stated the case.
               "Oh, if that's all, 't ain't no kind o' consequence 'bout finding him. I'll take the trunk down there, and won't think nothin' on't, nuther. 'T ain't much of a lift."
               "You can't carry it so far, Debby," said Bessie, in a kind of dismay, but laughing at the idea. "How you would look!"
               "I don't keer for the look," quoth Debby, tying on a clean apron and seizing her bonnet. "The heft on't ain't nothin', but it's sort o' clumsy to carry. If I give out, you and Ellen can spell me."
               But she strode on in front of the two girls, bearing the trunk in her strong arms as if it had been a mere child's toy, and with no symptoms of a disposition to "give out."
               "There 'tis!" she exclaimed, as she set down her burden upon the floor of Mrs. Wentworth's kitchen. "You see 'twa'n't so much of an affair arter all. No, no, Miss Ellen, don't say a word about thanks; and I can't stop, though I'm just as much obleeged to ye for the invite as though I could. Good-by to ye. I hope that brother o' yourn'll get great good by goin' this jarney;" and in a moment the girls saw her tall, gaunt figure striding up street at a pace that was nearer a run than a walk.
               "She is a dear good old soul," said Bessie, with a smile, as they carried the trunk up stairs. "But she never will learn to talk English."
               It took them but a short time to finish the packing, and then they went down to the parlor. Mr. Ashley had already gone, and Dr. Elliot stood in the door-way, hat in hand. He was to accompany William to New York, and see him safely established on board the steamer.
               "Where have you kept yourself all this evening, Miss Ellen?" he asked, as he stepped one side to let them pass. "Plotting treason with my little friend Bessie here? How is it, Bessie? What mischief have you been about during these two long hours?"
               "None, sir," she replied, as she quietly disengaged herself from the arm which strove to detain her, and glided to an unoccupied seat by the side of Miss Grace—"unless packing a trunk is mischief. We shall think it is, if any harm should happen to William while he is away."
               "Any harm? Poh! nonsense! Why, Miss Bessie, I expect he will be a regular athlete by the time he returns, able to run races with the best of us."
               "Or to walk as far as the parsonage with the aid of this cane," said William, smiling. "I feel as if that would be quite a feat."
               "I hope to see you do more than that, my young friend," replied the good old man. "But, Miss Ellen, mind that you do not allow this brother of yours to oversleep himself to-morrow morning. The stage leaves at six. Good-evening—good-evening."
               Something of the indescribable sadness that so often seizes the mind upon the eve of any new and important undertaking settled upon the little group, as Dr. Elliot departed, carrying with him his sunshiny face and never-failing good-humor. As, with common consent, they drew nearer to each other, and spoke in lower and softer accents. Ellen sat on a low seat by William's side, with her head resting upon his knee. Mrs. Wentworth was upon the other side, with one hand clasped in that of her son. Bessie was nestling under Miss Grace's wing, and Mr. Warren and Margaret completed the circle. Even the face of the latter wore an expression of unusual softness, and more than one of the company thought they had never seen her when she was so agreeable, and displayed so much of womanly feeling.
               Few words were spoken. All seemed to be content with thinking and feeling, and, at length, after Mr. Warren had commended the young traveler to the care of Him who holdeth the winds and the waves in the hollow of his hand, they arose to take their leave.
               If William's adieus to the kind friends who had so lightened the burden of his sorrows were tearfully uttered, let it not be considered owing to a lack of manliness and courage. Gratitude and tenderness may moisten the eye, nor shame the stoutest heart.
               It so happened that, as they passed out of the gate, Margaret was very near Mr. Warren's elbow, while Bessie clung closely to Miss Grace. And in that order they walked homeward.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Sleep safe, O wave-worn mariner,
                           Fear not to-night, or storm, or sea!
                           The ear of heaven bends low to her!
                           
                           He comes to shore who sails with me!
                        
                     
                     WILLIS.
                  
               
               DR. ELLIOT was absent a week, and when he returned he called at Mrs. Wentworth's, even before he sought his own home.
               "Well, madam," he said, as he cordially shook her hand, "I bade William good-by on board of the 'Mariner,' and watched him standing upon the deck until I could not distinguish a man from a post; and I waved my pocket-handkerchief, Miss Ellen, just as he was fading from my sight, after the most approved fashion of heroines and novelists. That I did in your stead, and I trust you appreciate the kindness."
               "I do, most certainly," she replied, laughing, but with a tear trembling in her eye. "I appreciate all your kindnesses, Dr. Elliot, and that is by no means the greatest."
               "Was William in good spirits, doctor? Was he looking well?" inquired the anxious mother.
               "Better than when he left you, madam, much better. He improved with every mile of the journey from this place to New York, and I never saw him in better spirits. My nephew, Captain Grey, promised to take every possible care of him. Indeed, he seemed to take a great fancy to him, and would do it for his own sake, I believe, even if he were a stranger to me. William has a fine state-room, with every accommodation. He will have a capital time, I'll engage."
               "How did you decide as to his return?" asked Ellen, "Will he come back in the 'Mariner?'"
               "Yes. On the whole we concluded that arrangement would be the best. And William thought he should prefer it. The 'Mariner' will not sail on her return passage before the middle of June, which will give him several weeks in England. He promised to write by the first steamer. But I suppose Mrs. Elliot is waiting dinner for me. So good-morning, madam. Good-morning Miss Ellen. We may expect letters in about four weeks."
               The letters arrived in due season—letters that gladdened the hearts of the recipients, they were so full of hope, and joy, and eager interest in every thing around him. His friends needed no wordy assurances that he felt a newer life in every vein. Each dash of his pen betrayed it.
               "I can not tell you," he wrote to Ellen, "how greatly I enjoyed the passage hither. I was not sea-sick in the least, and it seemed to me that I gained strength with every motion of the ship, every swell of the waves, every breath of the invigorating breeze. Even the hoarse whisper of the rising gale was music to my ears, and the shifting clouds, and changing shadows were an ever new delight. I shall say nothing to you of my impression of England, of the thrill of strange emotion with which I first trod the soil hallowed by the footsteps of that army of great and wise men, poets, sages, and seers, whose memory is as dear to Americans as to the sons of Albion, or of what I have seen, or where I have been since then. All that, and much else, I will leave for some long winter evening by our own fireside. But I must tell you something of my new acquaintances. Captain Grey—thanks probably to our good Dr. Elliot—has been very kind to me, as kind as a brother, doing every thing for my comfort and improvement. Here in Liverpool he relieves me of all care by taking the entire charge of me and my affairs. To-morrow we are going to London. Our stay will be short, of course. But I felt that I could not return home without at least one glimpse of Westminster Abbey, the Tower, and the bridge—the bridge of Wordsworth and Hood. Sure am I that I shall shudder at 'the dark arch, and the black flowing river.' A son of Captain Grey will accompany us, and also Wallace Buchanan, a young gentleman from New York who was one of our passengers, and between whom and myself quite an impromptu friendship has sprung up. Circumstances have thrown us much together, and I hope and trust that we may continue our acquaintance upon the other side of the Atlantic. He is a noble fellow. It so happened that one of the Professors at Yale was also among the number of our passengers, with whom I have formed a very pleasing acquaintance. So if I enter college in the fall, I shall see at least one familiar face among the honorable faculty."
               Much more he wrote, but this extract will suffice. To his mother and Ellen these letters were more entertaining than the best book of travels ever written, and they looked forward with longing eagerness to the day when their beloved one should be with them once again.
               It came at last. One beautiful evening in July Mrs. Wentworth's tea-table was spread with unusual care and skill, while Ellen and herself sat in the little porch awaiting the arrival of the stage.
               "I shall be so disappointed if William does not come to-night," she said, pushing aside the thick leaves of the woodbine, or 'five-leaved ivy' which obstructed her view of the village street. "Is not the stage later than usual, Ellen?"
               Ellen laughed as she drew out her watch, or rather the watch she used—Miss Grace was its real owner—and held it up before her mother's eyes.
               "On the contrary it is earlier than we can reasonably expect it. It is not due until seven, and it is now only half past six."
               Just then Dr. Elliot, who was passing, perceived the occupants of the porch, and paused, leaning both elbows upon the gate.
               "You will have occasion to spell patience more than once to-night, I imagine, my dear madam," he said-laughingly. "The roads are in a terrible state between here and Morristown, on account of the late rains."
               "I know that they must be," was the reply. "But walk in, doctor, and help us spell it."
               "Thank you," he replied. "But I am on my way to visit a patient, and can not stop at present. I will call this evening, however, to welcome our wanderer."
               After a few moments' conversation, he bowed and passed on. But ere he had reached the corner of the fence, he again paused, and looked eagerly toward the setting sun, shading his eyes with his hand.
               "There she comes, now," he exclaimed; "just over the brow of the hill. Your watch must be too slow, Miss Ellen, and mine also; and William, there is William, waving his handkerchief from the window of the coach."
               "In return for the one you waved at parting," said Ellen, as she bounded down the graveled pathway to the gate. Mrs. Wentworth was not long following, and very soon there were glad recognitions, fond embraces, and all the usual accompaniments of a welcome home.
               William was greatly benefited by this journey. In spite of the fatigue arising from a long ride over rough and mountainous roads, they could see that at a glance; and as they gathered round the tea-table that evening, their hearts were overflowing with joy and gratitude. The ruddy hue of health was visible upon his cheek—a faint tinge, it is true, yet they regarded it as a promise for the future, and rejoiced accordingly. He was stronger than he had been for years, and although he was still lame, still unable to take a single step without the aid of his cane, all pain was gone, and he was no longer a sufferer.
               "I used to regard the absence of pain as a negative blessing," he said to Ellen, as he helped himself to a second biscuit; "but henceforth I shall class it with the positives. It is an absolute luxury."
               "And long may you enjoy it, my dear brother;" was the reply. "Now if you could only throw away that cane!"
               William shook his head, not sadly, but with a smile upon his lip, as he answered—
               "I do not expect that, Ellen; I can hardly say that I wish it. I am so much better than I could reasonably have hoped to be, I am so much less infirm than my fears had made me, that I feel no disposition to quarrel with my cane; on the contrary I expect to make it my lifelong friend and companion, more inseparable than, and as faithfully cherished as the sword of the soldier.
               Ellen sighed as she rose from the table, and began to gather up the tea-things. But that was no time for the indulgence of sad thoughts, and long before the last cup and saucer was placed upon the pantry shelf, her thoughts and her tongue were, busied with pleasanter themes.
               What a happy evening it was, and how rapidly its hours sped onward! Mr. Warren and Miss Grace came in just as the lamps were lighted, accompanied by Bessie. Margaret was detailed at home, much against her will, by a swelled face. The worst of it was over, and she was not then suffering, but nothing could have induced her to remain in the parlor, and she ran as soon as she heard the door-bell.
               Ellen and Bessie listened delightedly while Miss Grace and Mr. Warren were talking with William of his journey, and of what he had seen, and thought, and felt. The ground over which he had passed was familiar to both of them, and as they compared their own reminiscences with his more recent observations, time passed unheeded.
               "This seems like a dream, Willie," said Ellen, at length; "or a fairy-tale. I can scarcely realize that only four weeks ago you were upon the other side of the Atlantic, standing upon foreign soil, and forming part and parcel of an English landscape. England seems nearer to us than she did an hour ago, and I begin to wish that I had gone with you."
               "I wished for you all many a time," replied William, glancing round upon the little group; "for Miss Grace and Mr. Warren when I felt the need of wiser counsels and companionship than my own thoughts afforded me; for you and Bessie, Ellen, when I wanted sympathy in some burst of enthusiasm which, as I soon found, older and more experienced travelers could not or would not share; and for my dear mother whenever I gazed upon some bit of rural scenery, full of the quiet, home-like beauty that she so loves. I wish I could have brought a dozen or two of cottages—the quaintest, cosiest, most picturesque affairs imaginable—home with me, that you might have taken your choice. You would have been enraptured with them, mother."
               "If you could have transplanted the surroundings as well as the cottages, William," said Mr. Warren; "otherwise I deem it no heresy to say that she would prefer her own little cottage here, which is, I venture to assume, a more comfortable residence, even if a less picturesque feature in the landscape. But what were you about to say, Bessie?"
               "Oh, nothing of any consequence, sir. I was only going to tell William that I thought he could not have needed Ellen and me very often, for he had that young friend of his by his side all the time. I believe he has not spoken of a single adventure in which he did not bear a part."
               "Mr. Buchanan? Oh, he was by no means as new a traveler as myself; it was his third voyage. He spent last winter in England. But, Bessie, I did not mean to say that I wanted my friends only at the times and in the moods I specified."
               Bessie gave him one of her own bright smiles by way of reply, while Mrs. Wentworth asked:
               "Who is this new friend of yours, William? You have mentioned him incidentally in your account of almost every occurrence, but yet you have told us nothing about him. Who and what is he?"
               "He is Wallace Buchanan, my dear mother—junior partner in the firm of 'Burns, Tracy, and Buchanan,' importers and wholesale dealers, New York. So, at least his business card states. As for the rest, he is a most agreeable and gentlemanly companion, intelligent, energetic, with a high sense of honor, and deeply imbued with noble and generous feeling. He was in many respects so unlike myself, he had been so differently trained and educated, and was entering upon active life under such widely varying auspices, that I often found myself wondering at his unmistakable interest in and regard for me. No brother could have been kinder or more thoughtful."
               "I would like to thank him for it," said Mrs. Wentworth.
               "He carries a passport to your heart, I'll engage, my dear madam," said Mr. Warren, smiling. "Did he return with you, William?"
               "Yes, contrary to his first intentions. He is now in New York, but will return to England some time during the fall, and may possibly spend the winter there."
               
               "And you will be in college," remarked his mother. "Your paths have diverged again, my son, and this friendship, which seems to have given you so much pleasure, will soon be merely as a dream to you. It is not likely that you will ever meet again."
               "Traveling friendships are proverbially unreliable," said Miss Grace, who was looking over some engravings that lay upon the table, "and it will not be at all strange if this proves to be no exception to the rule. But if it does, Willie, you have only to come back to the old friends again."
               "Come back to them? Dear Miss Grace! my heart has never wandered from them even for a moment, and it never will. The formation of new ties will never weaken the old ones. But as for Wallace Buchanan, I have not the slightest doubt that if we both live, we shall meet again—and that before the frosts come."
               "What! this summer?" exclaimed Ellen and Bessie in a breath. "Are you going to New York again, Willie?"
               "No; but Mr. Buchanan is coming here. He has some business in the northern part of the State, and I easily persuaded him to turn a little from the direct route, and make Lanmere a visit."
               Mrs. Wentworth and Ellen looked at each other for an instant with something very like consternation depicted upon their countenances. They were thinking of the humble appointments of their home, of its small rooms, and its plain, simple, and almost scanty furniture, so unlike, probably, every thing to which their unexpected guest was accustomed.
               William read their thoughts as easily as he would have read the pages of a book, and replied to them with a gay laugh.
               "Do not give yourself any uneasiness, my dear mother. Velvet and rosewood are not essential to my friend's comfort and enjoyment. Of that I have had abundant proof, although it was easy to see that he was no stranger to them. He is the very last person before whom I should blush on account of poverty."
               A slight flush passed over Mrs. Wentworth's face as she replied,
               "I am not ashamed of poverty, William, and I trust I never shall be. But I could not help thinking that perhaps your friend would find us living in very different style from that which he had anticipated. He would be likely to suppose, from the circumstances under which he met you, that we were, at least, richer than we are."
               "That would have been a very natural supposition, I confess, if I had not taken pains to enlighten him. But he knows all about us, mother, even to the names of the kind friends whose liberality wafted me across the Atlantic, and he will not be looking for elegant furniture, a luxurious table, or a host of servants. Give him a cordial welcome, and liberty to amuse himself as best suits his own convenience, and it will be all that he will require."
               Ellen cast a comical glance at her mother, and her lips moved as if she were about to speak. But she did not, and the conversation turned to other themes.
               Little was said as they walked home. The calm stillness of that summer evening, with its brooding shadows and softened light, disposed their minds to thoughtful contemplation, rather than to the interchange of commonplaces. When they reached Mrs. Allison's gate, as it was yet far from being late, and the lights in the sitting-room window were burning brightly, Bessie invited her friends to walk in, saying that her mother would be glad to see them.
               "Not to-night, I believe," replied Miss Grace. "As your sister is not well, it is perhaps not best. We might disturb her."
               "But, Bessie," said Mr. Warren, as he held the gate open for her to pass through, "when are you going to pilot me to that remarkable rock of which you were telling me the other day? After giving such a glowing account of its wonders, I think you are bound to afford me an opportunity of gratifying the curiosity you excited."
               It would have been difficult for Bessie to have defined the feeling that prompted her to reply,
               "Not until Margaret is well, sir. She is more familiar with the path than I am."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           And in this hallowed spot where nature showers
                           Her summer smiles from fair and stainless skies,
                           Affection's hand may strew her dewy flowers,
                           Whose fragrant incense from the grave shall rise.
                        
                     
                     WILLIS GAYLORD CLARK.
                  
               
               "WHICH way now, Bessie?" asked Margaret in a querulous tone, as her sister, with a small basket upon one arm, and her broad-brimmed straw hat depending by its green ribbon from the other, entered the room where she was sitting the next afternoon. Her face was still enveloped in her handkerchief, and she looked cross and uncomfortable. "Which way now?" It seems to me that since I have been shut up here, unable to stir, you have been constantly on the wing. I should think you might stay in the house with me part of the time."
               "I will if you want me to, Margaret," was the reply, as Bessie slipped the basket from her arm, and threw down her hat. "You said this morning that I worried you to death talking so much, and I thought you would be glad to have me out of the way. Are you feeling better this afternoon?"
               "Not much," muttered Margaret; and then she came to a dead stop. In reality, she was sorry to see the basket and hat laid aside. She was in no conversational mood, and preferred solitude to the very best of company; her remark had been called forth, not by the slightest wish for Bessie's society, but by a dog-in-the-manger-like feeling which needs no explanation. When she found, however, that by Bessie's ready compliance, the tables were likely to be turned upon herself, she felt a strong inclination to retract her words.
               "Where were you going?" she inquired, after a pause.
               "Only up to the grave-yard for a little while. I noticed the other day that the flowers around Mr. Floyd's grave needed tying up and trimming; and, besides, I wanted to see if the last rose-bud I set out is going to live."
               "You may as well go on, now that you are all ready. What have you in your basket?"
               "Oh, a pair of scissors, and a pruning-knife, and some twine. And some coarse gloves, too," she added, lifting the cover and peeping in; "the thorns on the rose-bushes always prick me so. I wonder what they were made for? To teach one a moral lesson, probably. They say that every rose has its thorns, but Miss Grace has one that is perfectly thornless. Have you ever seen it, Margaret?"
               "No. But run along, if you are going to. It will be sundown before you get started."
               "It is not three o'clock yet. But do you really want me to go, Margaret? If you do not, I had just as lief wait until to-morrow."
               But Margaret insisted upon her going, and accordingly Bessie tied on her hat, hung the basket upon her arm again, and sallied forth.
               The grave-yard was at the distance of nearly a mile, but the day was cool and pleasant, and Bessie walked rapidly onward, intent only upon the accomplishment of her pious task. Yet she could not shut out the sweet influences of the balmy air, the cheerful sunshine, the fragrance of the newly-mown hay, the song of birds twittering in the branches of the trees which bordered the road upon each side, forming in many places a continuous leafy arch, the breath of a thousand flowers, and the soft murmur of the creek, as it went rippling along over its stony bed. Unconsciously to herself, her eye grew brighter, the faint rose-tinge upon her cheek deepened to a rich crimson, and the soft golden-brown hair rolled back from her white forehead in many a tiny curl, despite the combs and braids with which Mrs. Allison strove to check its "frivolity."
               She had expected to find the gate locked, and after a very short consultation with herself, had concluded that she would rather climb the fence than go to the sexton's after the key. But as she approached it, and mechanically laid her hand upon the latch, to her surprise it yielded to her touch. Entering the "place of graves," with light footstep and reverent mien she passed the lowly mounds, and sought a small inclosure near the middle of the yard.
               Mr. Floyd had requested upon his death-bed that his tombstone might be as plain and simple as possible, containing merely the record of his birth and death. His wishes had been sacredly regarded; but a few of his wealthiest parishioners had gratified themselves and paid a slight tribute to his memory by inclosing the grave and a suitable portion of ground with an elegant and costly iron fence. Within that inclosure, thanks chiefly to Bessie and Aunt Hetty, the grass was of the richest and deepest green, and delicate and fragrant flowers bloomed from early spring-time until the autumnal frosts withered the herbage and chilled the tender plants. Others, it is true, had borne a part in setting them out, and during the first season or two they had been faithfully tended by almost too many hands. But it had become an old story now, and had it not been for the frequent visits of the two who best loved him, the resting-place of the old minister would not have been, as it was, a spot upon which the eye dwelt with delight, and where throughout the livelong summer day, bird and bee made the air vocal with melody.
               
               For half an hour Bessie was busy with pruning-knife and scissors, and then producing a broom, which was dexterously concealed in a clump of bushes at a little distance, she swept the short thick grass in the inclosure, until not a withered leaf or an unsightly twig defaced its beauty. For twenty minutes longer she employed herself among the roses, lifting a long, trailing branch here, bending this spray, and compelling that straggler to return to its wonted position; then seating herself at the head of the grave, she leaned her glowing cheek against the cold marble, and surrendered herself to the dominion of the memories that came thronging thick and fast.
               How distinctly the image of the good old man whom her childhood had so venerated, arose before her! She could see the calm brow, with its crown of silvery hair, the clear, yet mild blue eye, the mouth with its expression of firmness and sweetness combined, the dignified bearing and benignant smile—all, all as distinctly as if the grave had won them but yesterday. She thought of his dying hour, of his last looks and words, of his prayer for her that she might meet him in the Heaven where he would be waiting for her. And she asked herself how it was with her soul; and if her daily life was such as would be pleasing in his sight, and in that of his Great Master.
               She could not answer the question. She was an enigma to herself. Well she knew that she had tried, during the years that had passed since her friend had been sleeping there, to do the will of her heavenly Father, not only in deed, but in the temper and spirit of her mind. She could recall no day in which she had not, in an humble and child-like spirit, sought His aid and guidance, and begged that she might be led in the path that "leadeth unto life." And often, more particularly during the past year or two, she had been almost ready to believe that she had some knowledge of the "peace that passeth understanding derstanding." Yet, on the other hand, there had been scarcely a day during all that time in which she had not been censured for her irreligious tendencies, charged with willful disregard of her soul's eternal welfare, or reproved for her lightness and thoughtlessness. She had heard her delinquencies mourned over, and her errors at once magnified and bewailed, until she was at a loss to know where she stood, or what she ought to think of her spiritual state.
               For a long time she sat there, sadly thinking of these things, and of the lost friend whose counsels would have been of such inestimable value if he could have been spared to her; and then bowing her head upon the green turf beneath which his ashes lay, she prayed, as she had often prayed before, that He who in wisdom and mercy had seen fit to remove him hence, would guide her through the journey of life, and enable her to meet him in the kingdom beyond time, where there are no partings.
               Ere she had ended her petition, startled by the sound of approaching footsteps, she raised her eyes, and beheld a funeral procession, with Mr. Warren at its head, just entering the grave-yard.
               She was somewhat surprised, for she had heard of no death in the village. But as she drew back, and screened herself from observation behind one of the rose-bushes, she judged from the absence of carriages, the plain and almost shabby attire of the few mourners, and the humble nature of all the accessories, that the tenant of the lowly bier, whoever it might be, was a child of poverty; and she rightly concluded that it was one of the many sorrowing and afflicted ones who had been the recipients of Mr. Warren's charities—a dweller, perhaps, in some abode of want and desolation, who had been sought out by Miss Grace and himself, and whose pathway to the grave had been smoothed by their ministrations. And Bessie did not think it strange that they had made no allusion to the circumstance on the previous evening; for while they literally obeyed the command to "visit the widow and the fatherless in their affliction," they also remembered the other injunction, to "let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth."
               Bessie silently watched the procession as it crossed the yard, and paused by an open grave in a distant corner, which had hitherto escaped her notice. The coffin was reverently lowered to its narrow bed, and then those rough, hard-featured men stood with uncovered heads while Mr. Warren uttered a few simple words of admonition and affectionate counsel, and prayed not only for the household which had just been broken up, but for all—all who were there assembled, that they might lay the lesson to heart, and remember that it is "appointed unto all men once to die, and after that the judgment." Bessie was too far off to hear all he said, but occasionally the soft west wind, as it swept over the grassy mounds, swaying the flowers, and scattering sweets around, bore to her ears the sound of his clear, deep voice; and she caught so much that she could easily imagine the rest
               The prayer was ended, and slowly, and in the same order in which it had entered, the procession left the grave-yard—all save the sexton and an assistant or two who were filling up the grave. Bessie thought she would remain quietly where she was until the last figure had disappeared, and then she would turn her own face homeward.
               But after exchanging a few words with the weeping wife, and leaving a substantial token of his interest in her hand, as he bade her farewell—at least, so Bessie judged from the eloquent look of gratitude that was lifted for an instant to his face—Mr. Warren entered the yard again, and, leaning against the fence, watched the little band until they passed out of sight. Then, with downcast eyes, and meditative mien, he bent his steps toward the spot where she was sitting.
               Bessie knew that he had not perceived her, for she was snugly hidden behind the rose-bushes, and, moreover, he had not looked in that direction since he entered the yard. Her first impulse was to glide away unperceived, and leave him to the solitude he was evidently seeking. But a second thought told her that would be impossible, and she concluded to sit still.
               Mr. Warren looked fatigued and careworn, and his face, though placid, and in perfect repose, lacked something of its usual brightness. He was no listless or idle pastor, and he felt deeply and prayerfully the responsibilities of his position. Several matters connected with the parish—bitterness of feeling between some of the most influential members of his charge, perplexities arising from some troublesome financial affairs, and a want of sympathy on the part of some who should have cordially sustained and assisted him, tended to depress his spirits that day, and he was seeking the grave of the good man whose place he filled—his Mecca, nay, his Bethel—that he might there meditate and pray. As he drew near, he did not once lift his head, but stood with folded arms, gazing fixedly on the green hillock at his feet.
               Just then a bird, startled from its position upon the lowest branch of a weeping-willow, swept suddenly past him, so close that its wing nearly brushed his cheek. As he instinctively raised his head, and started back, he caught a glimpse of Bessie, sitting between the rose-bush and the tombstone. She had thrown off her hat, and as she sat there in her light dress, while a slanting sunbeam streamed through an opening in the intersecting leaves, and fell upon her golden hair, he may be pardoned if a quick flush passed over his face, and if for an instant he thought of an angel watching by the tomb.
               
               He recovered himself immediately, however, and a glance at the little basket, with the scissors and the ball of twine, put him in possession of the facts in the case.
               "I beg your pardon, Miss Bessie," he said, lifting his hat; "I am an intruder, I perceive."
               "Oh, no, sir," she replied. "I had finished my work, and was just going home. It is I who am the intruder, as I have no special business here now."
               "And have consequently no right to be here? I can not admit that Miss Bessie. But I have no especial business here either—save that in some peculiar moods of thought and feeling, the holy quiet, the sacred atmosphere of this place, operates as a charm upon me, and I go away strengthened and refreshed. I could not resist my desire to try its efficacy this afternoon."
               A quick, flashing glance from Bessie's tearful eye, told that she perfectly understood and appreciated this, but she made no other reply.
               "I have often wondered at the perfect neatness and beauty of this little inclosure," he continued, glancing around, "and I more than suspected, I confess, who took such excellent care of it. But have you no assistant, Miss Bessie?"
               "Aunt Hetty comes occasionally, sir," she answered. "But I need no assistant, Mr. Warren. I love to do it. It is the pleasantest task I have!"
               "I do not doubt it," was the grave reply. "But how did you contrive to keep the grass so fresh and green, and the flowers blooming so thriftily, during the long drouth last summer? It was such a contrast to the rest of the yard."
               "There was water to be procured elsewhere," said Bessie, with a smile, "even if none fell from the clouds; and Aunt Hetty and I were determined that these flowers should not wither while there was a drop to be found in Lanmere."
               "And you came here and watered them?"
               "Yes, sir. We watered them every other day for four weeks. Sometimes Aunt Hetty came, and sometimes I; and Henry Marsh, or Edward Winslow were always glad to help us. We brought the water from the creek yonder."
               "And you were well paid for your trouble, I doubt not," said Mr. Warren.
               "Yes, sir. The flowers thanked us for every drop we gave them. They never looked more beautifully, and these rose-bushes were like mountains of snow, when seen from a little distance."
               "I remember it. They were fairly laden with blossoms. But, Bessie—"
               "What, sir?" she asked after a moment, as he did not finish the sentence.
               "The next time you are engaged in such a herculean labor, will you allow me to give you what assistance I may? I am no horticulturist, but I have a strong arm and can carry a pail of water as well as any body. And I think I could use a pruning-knife very efficiently, if some body with a 'head for flowers' would tell me what to do and what to leave undone."
               "Then, sir," said Bessie, laughing as she sprang up, "please give me the aid of your strong arm now. Here is a branch which set me at defiance."
               "I do not wonder," replied Mr. Warren, running his finger lightly along the edge of the pruning-knife she gave him. "I do not wonder if you attempted to cut it with this dull affair. Let me see if I can not do better;" and taking a sharp knife from his pocket, he speedily separated the decaying branch from its parent stem. Then without waiting for directions, he proceeded to trim and train several of the climbing roses which had grown beyond Bessie's reach.
               
               "You are not as unskilled in the use of the pruning-knife as you pretended to be, Mr. Warren," said Bessie, laughing again. "Miss Grace has given you lessons more than once, I'll engage. But I must get my broom again."
               Mr. Warren watched her with an amused face as she flew to the clump of bushes, in quest of the desired utensil; and then carefully removed, for the second time that day, every dried leaf, and withered branch from the velvet turf.
               "There! it looks very nicely now," she said, as she finished her task. "I am so much obliged to you, Mr. Warren. I tried my best to reach those branches, but could not succeed."
               "Yet you would have suffered me to have gone away without exerting my strength and skill, if it had not been for my own suggestion," he replied. "You need not have hesitated about calling upon me, Bessie. I have some claim here," and he glanced at the grave, "as well as yourself. I remember telling you 'a long time ago' that I too, loved the dear friend whose memory brought you hither to-day."
               "I remember it, Mr. Warren," said Bessie, crushing the tear which sparkled on her long lashes, "and I remember how glad it made me, too. I had been afraid—"
               "Of what, Bessie? That your tears would be misinterpreted?"
               "Yes, sir. That you would think me uncourteous."
               "I did not, Bessie; I understood you perfectly."
               "But that was not all, sir. That was not the only reason."
               She paused, and hesitated from a sudden aversion to finishing the sentence she had half unwittingly commenced.
               "Tell me all then, Bessie," said Mr. Warren, smiling. "What other reason had you for being glad?"
               Bessie did not reply at once, but sat with her eyes fixed upon the ground until Mr. Warren repeated his question. Then she replied with a very frank blush,
               "You will think I was very presumptions, sir, and I would rather not tell you."
               "But I will promise not to think so, Bessie. I am sure I shall not, and I really want to know why you were glad that I loved Mr. Floyd."
               "Because your saying so gave me so much confidence in you," she said, while the blush grew still deeper. "I thought if you loved him and venerated his memory you would be like him."
               Mr. Warren did not smile now, although he might well have been excused for smiling at so childish a reason. Bessie herself had loved Mr. Floyd, yet she had not been very much like him.
               "The motto of the Homeopathists 'similia similibus,' is hardly applicable to the affections, Bessie. We may love those who are so unlike us, so far above us, if you please, that their thoughts are not our thoughts, or their ways our ways."
               "I know it now, sir. I was but a little girl then."
               "But one thing I can safely say," continued Mr. Warren. "I have prayed each day that the mantle of your old pastor might fall upon me, and that I might wear it as he had worn it."
               "You said that, too, that day," exclaimed Bessie, with a sudden uplifting of the eyes.
               "You have a good memory," said Mr. Warren, smiling. "Better than mine, for I had forgotten it. But are you going now?"
               "Yes, sir. It will be sundown by the time I get home. But do not trouble yourself to go with me, Mr. Warren," she continued, as he rose from his seat. "You came here, if I understood you rightly, for quiet and reflection, and you certainly have had neither yet."
               
               Mr. Warren replied with a smile only, as he took her basket from her hand, and walked toward the gate by her side.
               It was locked now, but before her companion had an opportunity to offer his assistance, Bessie was the other side of the fence.
               "You are a very independent little maiden," he said, laughing, as he leaped over it himself, "or else you are in a very great hurry to get home. Which is it?"
               "Neither, sir. But I believe there is something squirrel-like in my nature. I can climb any thing."
               "Any thing but a vine-rose," said Mr. Warren.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           O what will I do wi' him? quo' he,
                           What will I do wi' him?
                           What will I do wi' him? quo' he,
                           What will I do wi' him?
                        
                     
                     OLD SONG.
                  
               
               WILLIAM was right. The frost had not yet blighted a single plant in the garden, neither had the maples even dreamed of exchanging their robes of delicate green for their autumnal dress of yellow and flame-color—but a letter had been received from Wallace Buchanan, stating that he would be in Lanmere in the course of the ensuing week.
               Ellen burst into a laugh of mingled vexation and amusement, as William read the last sentence, and then threw the epistle upon the table before her, with the remark that Buchanan was a capital penman.
               "Ellen!" he exclaimed presently. "What on earth ails you? I can't imagine what you are laughing at."
               "Don't be angry, Willie. I can't help it. But has that wise head of yours never suggested the query, 'Where is Mr. Buchanan to sleep?'"
               William's look of blank astonishment made his sister laugh all the more.
               "You said," she continued, as soon as she could speak, "that he would require nothing but a welcome and liberty to amuse himself, but I do really believe he will need a bed also."
               "Do be still, Ellen. It is no laughing matter, I am sure. What is to be done about it? Seriously, it never occurred to me until now that we could boast the possession of only two bedrooms."
               "I'll warrant it did not. Oh, Willie! what would become of you men, if you had no women to think for you occasionally?"
               "Well, I hope you will think to some purpose this time, for really I do not feel inclined to send Buchanan to the hotel, after having invited him here; and certainly not to such miserable houses as are kept in Lanmere. I am so sorry! I never once thought—!"
               "Don't be uneasy, Willie," said Ellen, quietly, as she saw that her brother was seriously annoyed. "We'll manage it, one way or another. But it won't do to let him share your room; it is so small. It is really hardly large enough for one person."
               "No," replied William, "that wouldn't do at all."
               "Luckily," continued Ellen, "it is vacation time, and the benches can be removed from the schoolroom. I had thought we might arrange that for him. But then we shall need it so badly for a dining-room."
               "It is just so," said William, glancing rather contemptuously around the small apartment in which they were sitting. "It must be a comfort to have room enough. But never mind, Ellie; we'll have a larger house some time."
               "What are you talking about, children?" asked Mrs. Wentworth, coming in, in time to catch the last sentence. "This house is a very comfortable one, I am sure."
               "Comfortable enough," said William, handing her the letter. "But Mr. Buchanan will be here next week, and Ellen has just suggested that there is no place for him to sleep."
               Mrs. Wentworth ran her eye hastily over the letter.
               "If you could sleep in that little wood-house chamber William," she said, hesitatingly. "It is not a very nice place, I know, but we could fix a comfortable bed for you. Then Ellen and I could take your room, and give Mr. Buchanan ours."
               "That is it exactly!" said William, clapping his hands. "That is, if you and Ellen can put up with such close quarters as my little room for awhile. The wood-house chamber is nice enough, and I had as lief sleep on the floor as any where, while the weather is so warm. But why not give Buchanan my room?" he added. "Then you will need to make no change."
               "It will be more convenient, on many accounts, to give him ours," said Mrs. Wentworth.
               "Yes," chimed in Ellen, "we shan't want him to be going through the kitchen forty times a day. But, Willie, how much of a carpenter are you?"
               "I used to be a pretty good one, but I have not tried my skill lately. Why?"
               "Because I want you to make frames for two lounges and a toilet-table. Are you equal to it?"
               "Yes, I think so."
               "Then, if you will set yourself about it as soon as possible, I will be greatly obliged. With the aid of a few yards of moreen and dimity, and a little hay and cotton, we will have some desirable additions to our 'housen stuff,' as old Mrs. Miles calls all manner of household furniture. I wish we could have some new curtains for this room; but we can't afford it, I suppose."
               Mrs. Wentworth shook her head.
               "Not this summer, dear. But the lounges and toilet-table we really do need, and they will cost but little if William can make the frames, which, it seems to me, is rather doubtful."
               "Never fear, mother. I will go about it immediately."
               
               But it proved to be more of an undertaking for a lame man than he had anticipated; and if it had not been for the assistance of Henry Marsh, who was learning the carpenter's trade, Ellen would have been obliged to wait a long time for her lounges.
               Mr. Buchanan arrived in due season, and was apparently greatly delighted, not only with Lanmere in general, but with Mrs. Wentworth's neat little cottage; and with the pleasant room, where every thing was in good taste and convenient, if not elegant, which had been assigned particularly to him. Little did he dream that the ladies of the household had resigned it for his benefit! If he had, his sleep would have been far less sweet.
               "Miss Carey's soirée is this evening," said Bessie, the day after Mr. Buchanan's arrival, as her sister and herself were stoning some raisins, preparatory to making fruitcake.
               "No, to-morrow evening," said Margaret.
               Bessie looked up suddenly, allowing her knife to remain stationary between the halves of a raisin.
               "Why, this is Wednesday, is it not?"
               "To be sure it is."
               "And the invitation was for Wednesday?"
               "No, for Thursday," said Margaret.
               Bessie jumped up, set down her platter, and went to the table opposite.
               "Where is that note?" she asked, presently.
               "In my basket; but don't touch it with your sticky fingers, Bessie. Wait till you are through with the raisins."
               With the end of her little finger, however, taking particular pains not to soil the dainty note, Bessie tossed it out upon the table, and turned it over.
               "Miss Carey will be happy to see Mrs. Allison and her daughters on Wednesday evening,'" she read, triumphantly. "There! I thought so."
               "Well, come and finish your raisins," said Margaret; "it makes no difference."
               "A trifle, I should think," replied Bessie, laughing. "That is, if you are going to the party. Are you, Margaret?"
               "I don't know. Perhaps so."
               "Is mother going?"
               "I don't know that either. Why don't you ask her?"
               "I will when I have finished this job. Any thing but stoning raisins—I can't bear it."
               "You would rather be reading stories or writing verses, I suppose," said Margaret, dryly.
               "Writing verses—!"
               Bessie's neck and face turned scarlet, and further words were denied her just then.
               "Yes, writing verses. Anything but that, I should say! Any thing but a moon-struck, sentimental damsel."
               An angry retort rose to Bessie's lips, her eye flashed, and the scarlet grew brighter than ever; but not utterly in vain had she wrestled with her own spirit during the last few years, and her temper was under far better control than it had formerly been. It was full a minute before she trusted herself to reply.
               "I am not a sentimental damsel, Margaret—"
               "I have not said that you were, have I?" interrupted that young lady.
               "And as for writing verses, I do not know what reason you have for bringing such a charge against me."
               "The best in the world," replied Margaret, drawing a folded paper from her pocket. She had apparently forgotten her scruples as to "sticky" fingers. "If a poetess must carry her productions about her person, I should advise her to take better care of them. It would be a pity to have them lost."
               Bessie recognized the paper immediately, and attempted to take it from Margaret's hand, but she held it high above her head.
               "Give it to me, Margaret!" she exclaimed. "Give it to me!"
               But Margaret shook her head.
               "Give it to me," she repeated. "You have no right to it. It is mine."
               "Oh!—is it? Who would have thought it?" cried Margaret, with well-feigned surprise. "What! really yours, Bessie?"
               "Yes, really mine," said Bessie, earnestly. "Let me have it, Margaret."
               "No. It is mine now by right of possession, and I want to show it to Mr. Warren."
               "Margaret!"
               "He is a judge of the article, and may be—"
               "Let me have it, Margaret, I tell you," cried Bessie, almost beside herself. "I would not have Mr. Warren see that paper for all this world. Give it to me, or tear it up. I don't care which!"
               "Tear it up! Mercy, no! Who could be such a Vandal? I must show it to Mr. Warren, and ask him if it isn't worth printing. Oh, Bessie!" she continued, mockingly, "perhaps you are the anonymous contributor to the 'Knickerbocker' of whom he was speaking the other night. Who knows?"
               Bessie burst into tears.
               "You know better, Margaret. Why will you torment me so? I never could forgive you in the world if you should show it to him."
               "That would be dreadful. I couldn't endure it, possibly. Here, take your verses," she continued, tossing the paper into her lap, "and keep them out of my way another time. You need not have been afraid I would show them to Mr. Warren. I have too much regard for myself to do that—considering that you are my sister."
               Bessie was so rejoiced at obtaining possession of her paper again, that her sister's concluding taunt fell upon a deaf ear. She never dreamed of calling herself a poetess, or of thinking, because her thoughts sometimes came in numbers, and because when they did she was strongly inclined to 'make a note' of them, that she wrote poetry. She would have deemed it the grossest sacrilege; and so low an estimate did she place upon her own powers, that this was the very first time that any of her rhymes had met the eye of another. And Mr. Warren, of all others! As she said, she would not have shown them to him for the world.
               Bessie tore the paper into an infinity of pieces, put them in her pocket, and then resumed her work. But she had been too deeply wounded to feel like talking, and the stoning of the raisins was completed in utter silence. Just as they were put away, and the girls had taken their sewing, Mrs. Allison came in. Margaret waited for some time for Bessie to ask the question she had said she would ask, but as the latter evinced no disposition to speak, she was forced to make the inquiry herself.
               "Are you going to Miss Carey's this evening, mother?"
               "Yes. I consider it my duty to sustain the school by every means in my power. It is important that she should have every encouragement, and the presence of people of character and standing at her parties must certainly have that effect."
               Bessie was on the point of saying that she thought a seminary ten years of age ought to be independent of such favors; but fortunately she recollected herself in time, and held her peace.
               "You will go, of course," continued Mrs. Allison, "and Bessie also. I wish you to be dressed and in the sitting-room at precisely eight o'clock. The people here are getting quite too much in the habit of following city fashions, and turning night into day. I wish to set them a better example, and shall remain at home rather than to go at a later hour."
               "What are you going to wear this evening, Margaret?" asked Bessie, that afternoon. She had by no means forgotten that she had some cause of displeasure against her sister; but she never brooded over an injury, and was ever ready to promote a reconciliation. She could not live in a quarrel. The breath of peace was essential to her happiness, if not to her existence. Beside, she really loved her sister. Not, we confess, with all the warmth of sisterly affection which she was capable of feeling; and her heart still yearned, as it had yearned in her childhood, both to give more love than she was giving, and to receive more than she was receiving. Love can exist—and let our frail humanity thank heaven that it can—on a very meager diet; but it will not grow and thrive, increasing year by year in strength and beauty, without nourishing aliment.
               "I have not determined yet," was the reply.
               "We must choose thin dresses, of course, it is so warm. Why not wear your white barege? I thought of wearing mine. You have no dress which is more becoming."
               "I know it. But I ripped the sleeves out the other day, to alter them, and took off the trimming round the neck. And I have had no time to put it in order since."
               "It is not too late now," said Bessie, glancing at the clock. "If you want to wear it to-night, you can take one sleeve, and I the other, and we can get it done by seven o'clock."
               Margaret gladly assented to this proposition, and in a few moments their needles were flying. It is not impossible that she was a little touched by this proof of Bessie's disposition to practice the Golden Rule. At all events, she was in an uncommonly genial mood, and as they both had the "willing hand" that "makes light work," their task was accomplished before it was time to dress for the evening.
               "I can't make my hair look even decently to-night," said Margaret, as she stood before the mirror, brush in hand; "the puffs break so. See there!" and she pointed despairingly to the heavy mass she had been vainly endeavoring to arrange; "I wish I could braid it in a broad braid like Kate Wilbur's."
               "I know how," said Bessie, "Kate showed me. Sit down here, and let me braid it."
               Margaret had the grace to say, as she seated herself, "I am afraid you can not spare time, Bessie, for you have not dressed your own hair yet."
               "It will not take long," was the reply, as she moved her fingers rapidly through the long and glossy strands. "There! Now if I only had a white rose-bud and two or three geranium leaves to put just here, Stay! I can take them from my bouquet, without injuring it in the least. It looks beautifully, Margaret, doesn't it? You never looked so well in your life."
               Margaret glanced smilingly at the reflection of herself in the tall mirror, and bestowed due praise upon Bessie's handiwork. The two sisters were as strongly contrasted in form and feature as in character, and many would have regarded the elder as the handsomest of the two. Indeed, when her face was not marred, as, alas! it too frequently was, by an expression of sullen coldness, and by a kind of sneer that was only too habitual, it was really beautiful. But at that moment her better self was in the ascendant; and with her elegantly-arranged tresses of purplish black, her dark, flashing eyes, and stately figure, she was brilliantly handsome, even if less lovely than the fair, golden-haired Bessie.
               She turned away with a smile—thinking that her sister was right, and that she really had never looked better—wondering if Mr. Warren would be at the party—and saying,
               "It wants twenty minutes to eight, Bessie. You must hurry."
               Precisely at the appointed time, Mrs. Allison made her appearance in the sitting-room. But her daughters were already waiting for her, and after a very little delay, Tom brought the carriage to the door, and they started.
               Early as it was, however, they found Miss Carey's pleasant parlors quite well filled. Mr. Warren and Miss Grace were already there, and after saluting their hostess, Mrs. Allison crossed the room, and joined the group of friends with whom they were chatting. Whether designedly or not we will not undertake to say, but the place she chose was such as to bring her eldest daughter close to Mr. Warren, and in such a position that he could not, without absolute rudeness, avoid addressing his conversation chiefly to her.
               "Margaret," she said, presently, in a low tone, but one which was evidently designed for that gentleman's ear, "Margaret, if you have an opportunity before the evening is over, you had better consult Mr. Warren concerning the disposition of the moneys which are now in your hands, as treasurer of the Young Ladies' Benevolent Association. His advice will be of great value to you, particularly as there appears to be some difference of opinion among the members of the society."
               "Trouble in the camp?" said Mr. Warren, with a smile. "Then my advice is that you consult no one. Interference from outsiders, in such cases, generally does more harm than good."
               "Oh, Mr. Warren!" exclaimed Mrs. Allison, deprecatingly; "you surely can not suppose that the ladies of the Association would regard any thing you might say in the light of interference, or that they look upon their pastor as an 'outsider.' Margaret, just tell Mr. Warren the various plans that have been proposed, and avail yourself of his opinion. I am sure the society would gladly be governed by it."
               So saying, she turned away and established herself comfortably in a corner of the sofa upon which Aunt Hetty was sitting.
               Mr. Warren listened courteously, but in silence, while Margaret proceeded, with a good deal of circumlocution, to give him an account of the last meeting of the Association, and of its difficulties. A close observer might, perhaps, have fancied that this tête-à-tête, into which he had been drawn, was not exactly agreeable to him. The slightest possible shade of annoyance was visible in his features, and his eye wandered more than once in the direction of a small, curiously-wrought table of Chinese manufacture, on which were scattered some rare books and engravings—and near which sat Bessie.
               "I beg your pardon, Miss Margaret," he said, rising, as she was about to tell him the second plan which had been proposed for the disbursement of their charitable fund, and offering her his arm, "I beg your pardon, but I perceive that my sister will be a safer and more judicious adviser than myself in this matter. She is much more familiar with the character and design of your Association, and is consequently better able to form an opinion as to the merits of these conflicting claims. Shall we join her? I see she is disengaged just now."
               Margaret accepted the offered arm, and in a very short time Mr. Warren had given her a seat by Miss Grace, while he himself stood near them, occasionally joining in their conversation, and at the same time exchanging salutations with friends who chanced to be near, and carrying on a desultory talk with Dr. Elliot. The tête-à-tête was evidently at an end.
               
               "I don't see my little snow-drop," said the doctor, presently. "Where is she, Miss. Margaret?"
               "Sir?" said Margaret, inquiringly, as she looked up in surprise.
               "Bessie?" suggested Miss Grace, laughing.
               "To be sure. Who else should it be? Is she here tonight?"
               "Yes, she is here—somewhere," replied Margaret. "I don't see her just now, however."
               "She is in the other room, studying Chinesery," said Mr. Warren. "I was just going to bring her here."
               "Beg pardon, sir," said the doctor, bowing and laughing, as he turned away. "But you should have started sooner, I am going after her myself."
               Presently he came back.
               "Unsuccessful?" asked Mr. Warren.
               "Yes. Not exactly that, either—for I did not make any attempt to speak with her. The fair ladye had finished her studies, sir, and was talking with just the handsomest man I have seen this many a day. So I concluded it wasn't best to interfere. Thoughtful—wasn't I, Miss Margaret?"
               "Very," she replied, listlessly, while she pulled off the petals of a rose.
               "There they are!" exclaimed Dr. Elliot, a moment afterward, "standing just within the folding-doors. Wasn't I right? By George! but they're a handsome couple!" Then with an apologetic bow to Miss Grace, he added quickly, "Beg pardon, Miss Grace. I didn't mean to say that. But it wasn't swearing, was it?"
               Miss Grace's smile and little shake of the head might have meant either yes or no. But she made no other reply, for at that moment William Wentworth joined them.
               "You're the very man I wanted to see," said the doctor tor, clapping him on the shoulder after he had shaken hands with Mr. Warren, and bowed to Miss Grace and Margaret. "But what business have you to be carrying that cane round yet? Think it is very becoming, I suppose? Gives you a highly-interesting air, and all that—eh?"
               "Does the cane carry me, doctor, or do I carry the cane?" asked William, laughing. "That's the question—an important one too, and I can't decide it to my own satisfaction. I leave the decision to you."
               "Can't give it to-night," said the doctor, "I must have time to consider the matter. Look there, William," he added in a lower tone, "who is that with Bessie Allison? We have just been concluding that they are the handsomest couple in the room, by all odds."
               "Why, doctor!" exclaimed Margaret, in a slightly petulant tone, "no one but yourself has said a word about them."
               "I stand reproved, Miss Margaret," he replied, while a comical smile lurked round the corners of his mouth. "No one has said a word about them but myself, that's a fact. But do you know who it is, William?"
               "It is my friend Buchanan, sir."
               "Ah! your paragon?"
               "What, sir?" said William, laughing.
               "Your paragon—as Ellen called him. The fellow-passenger of whom you spoke in your letters?"
               "Yes," replied William; "but I was not aware that Ellen had so dubbed him."
               "Well," said the doctor, "introduce me when you have an opportunity. If his head and heart are as good as his face, he is well worth knowing."
               "Why is Ellen not with us, this evening?" asked Miss Grace. "Is she not well?"
               "She has one of her headaches," was the reply, "and was hardly equal to company, either at home or abroad. It was nothing serious, however, and she insisted upon it that she only needed quiet to restore her."
               Bessie's companion had led her to a seat near one of the open windows, where a stand of flowering plants partially screened them from observation. It was easy to see, however, that they were engaged in animated conversation, and that the young girl's face was lit up with an expression of unusual interest.
               "See!" whispered Dr. Elliot to Mr. Warren, after a while, and glancing in the direction of the window, "see! my snow-drop is turning to a rose-bud. A curious phenomenon in Natural History. What can be the meaning of it?"
               Don't think him a meddlesome old fool, gentle reader. He had known and loved our little Bessie from her very babyhood, and more than once, when she had been trembling upon the verge of the grave, his hand—guided by One still more powerful—had led her away from its fearful brink, and back to the paths of life again. His scrutiny proceeded from deep interest in her, not from mere idle curiosity.
               Mr. Warren started as if an adder had stung him, and after some careless reply to Dr. Elliot, he went into another room.
               "You are not enjoying yourself this evening, Paul," said Miss Grace, in a low tone, as she laid her hand upon her brother's arm, half an hour afterward.
               "That is true enough," he replied, with a half smile. "I am not in a social mood to-night. I have been here long enough, Grace. How is it with you?"
               "I am ready to go whenever you like," she said. "I feel no particular inclination to stay longer."
               "Let us go now, then," was the rejoinder; and making their adieus to their hostess, who was standing near them, they quietly left the parlors.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           O Babie, dainty Babie Bell!
                           How fair she grew from day to day!
                           What woman-nature filled her eyes,
                           What poetry within them lay!
                        
                     
                     T.B. ALDRICH.
                  
               
               MARGARET returned from the party in very ill-humor, and with the disagreeable consciousness that she had been completely eclipsed by the sister whom she had always regarded (as indeed she had been virtually taught to regard her) as greatly her inferior in every respect. Mr. Warren, she could not help seeing and feeling, had evinced no disposition to devote himself exclusively to her, but, on the other hand, had thrown away a most favorable opportunity for enjoying her society, had he been inclined to do so. He had spoken to Bessie only once, to be sure, and that was when they first entered the room; but his thoughts had evidently been directed toward her more than once, and in Margaret's present mood she was disposed to regard even that as an infringement of her rights. What her rights were it would have puzzled her to have told. But it had become a settled fact with her that she was some time to marry Mr. Warren.
               It was not strange, either, that such an idea should have taken possession of her girlish brain. It had been the acme of Mrs. Allison's ambition for her eldest daughter, that she might become the wife of a clergyman. Not that she wished her, in the true missionary spirit, to link her destinies with that of some poor, humble, self-denying denying minister of the cross; to walk through life by his side, strengthening him by her love, aiding him by her faith and her prayers, bearing his burdens with him, and sharing his crown at last. That was not what she wished, by any means. But that Margaret should become the wife of some eminent divine, whose reputation would add new dignity to herself as the mother-in-law, had long been the object of her wishes. And when Mr. Warren came to Lanmere, she immediately caught at this opportunity for the fulfillment of her desires. He was universally regarded as a young man of distinguished abilities, and very few even of his older brethren wielded a more powerful influence than himself, or could command such audiences as flocked to hear him. He had even now reputation enough to satisfy her pride, and moreover he had, what few ministers have, abundant wealth, exclusive of his salary. Of course this fact was not to be disregarded, or deemed of slight importance, and long before Mr. Warren was actually settled in Lanmere, Mrs. Allison had fixed upon him as her son-in-law, the husband of her eldest and favorite child.
               We would not have it supposed that any conversation bearing directly upon this point had ever passed between Mrs. Allison and Margaret. The former was by far too wise to thus commit herself, or to thus openly betray her policy. But her daughter had been so often advised to do so and so, because it would please Mr. Warren; to pursue this course because he would approve it; to interest herself in such and such matters because he was interested in them; and so on, ad infinitum—and she had been so often thrown in his way, under circumstances calculated to display both herself and her character in their best light—that is, according to her mother's view of their best light—that she must have been blind and obtuse indeed if she had not learned the lesson thus impressed upon her. And as she conscientiously believed the hand of Mrs. Allison's eldest daughter to be a prize not likely to be willfully rejected by any man, she regarded it, as we have said, as a settled fact that she was some time to marry Mr. Warren.
               But that night she had some misgivings. Certainly there had been nothing very lover-like in his demeanor, and she had arrived at an age when her youth was no longer an excuse for any lack of attention on his part. Perhaps it was not certain that she was to be the minister's wife after all!
               With thoughts like these, not clearly defined, but floating vaguely and dimly through her brain, Margaret rode silently homeward, scarcely vouchsafing any reply to two or three observations addressed to her by her mother. Bessie was silent also, but hers was a happy, not a moody silence, and her face, as the light of the street lamps occasionally flashed upon it, was beaming and animated. The sight but increased Margaret's discontent; for it recalled the image of the handsome and distinguished-looking stranger who had treated Bessie with such marked attention, while she herself had sat by Miss Grace's side, comparatively unnoticed.
               It was quite late, and the two girls went directly up stairs to their rooms. Margaret threw off her rigolette, and then going to the mirror she surveyed herself from head to foot. No wonder that she was dissatisfied with the frowning brow, the pouting lip, and the cross, disagreeable expression of the face which met her gaze.
               "I never will have my hair braided in this way, again," she exclaimed, snatching the white rose from its resting-place, and tossing it impatiently on the floor. "I look like a perfect fright."
               "You look pale and tired now," said Bessie. "But I noticed you this evening when you were talking with Miss Grace, and I thought you never looked prettier."
               "Prettier! Humph! I don't care for being pretty. I can't bear doll-faces," continued Margaret, with a contemptuous glance at her sister's blooming cheeks. "But I don't believe you saw me at all. You had neither eyes nor ears for any body but that gentleman with whom you were parading about. I would not be quite so familiar with a stranger another time, if I were you."
               "I was not familiar with, him" said Bessie, while her color deepened, "at least not unbecomingly so. And as for his being a stranger, I could hardly regard him in that light, for you know he is a friend of William Wentworth's, and is staying at his mother's. I was so sorry Ellen wasn't at the party!"
               "Very likely," said Margaret, sarcastically. "For my part I don't consider myself under obligations to adopt all William Wentworth's friends. A pretty time he must have staying there in that little tucked up house. I suppose he sleeps down cellar or in the pantry."
               "I don't suppose any such thing," said Bessie, quietly; "and if he were not satisfied with his quarters he would probably change them."
               "What's his name?" asked Margaret, abruptly. "I've forgotten."
               "Buchanan—Wallace Buchanan," was the reply. "He noticed you, Margaret, and asked if you were my sister."
               "Did he?" said Margaret, somewhat mollified by finding that she had not been entirely overlooked. "What did he say when you told him that I was?"
               "He said nothing, I believe, except that we did not look at all alike."
               "What made him think of our being sisters, then?"
               "Oh! I suppose he heard somebody call you by name. Unfasten my glove, will you, Margaret?—It is out of order, and I am afraid I shall tear it."
               "There! it unfastens easily enough, I'm sure. What brought him here, and how long is he going to stay?"
               "How should I know? He came to see William Wentworth, I suppose. I don't know any thing about the length of his stay. A few days, probably."
               "Ellen Wentworth will be setting her cap at him," said Margaret. "There is no doubt of that."
               Two distinct impulses led to this profound and strikingly original observation. One was Margaret's dislike of Ellen—a dislike which still lay coiled up in her heart, although in a somewhat dormant state—and the other was a disposition to annoy Bessie. If the latter had been particularly flattered by the attentions of the young stranger, this remark would be likely to bring her to her senses, by suggesting the idea of a rival. So at least thought Margaret.
               "Ellen is not very well skilled in the business of setting caps," said Bessie, demurely. "Some friend who has had more experience ought to give her lessons. But if Mr. Buchanan is in search of a wife, he might look a good while without finding a better one."
               Margaret was fairly puzzled, and went to bed quite at a loss as to the state of Bessie's fancy—whether it had been taken captive or whether it had not.
               Mr. Buchanan had attracted general attention at the party. His fine face and figure, his distinguished bearing, together with the story which Dame Rumor, with her usual love for exaggeration, set afloat, viz.: that he was immensely rich—almost a millionaire, indeed—rendered him the "observed of all observers." Of course Dr. Elliot and Mr. Warren were not the only ones who noticed that he was particularly attentive to Bessie.
               Staid, quiet Lanmere, seemed to be afflicted with an epidemic of parties, pic-nics, and all sorts of walking and riding excursions about that time. There were several strangers, both ladies and gentlemen, visiting friends in the town, and their acquaintances were constantly devising ing new plans for their entertainment. It was a ride today, a walk to-morrow, a boating excursion upon the river this moon-lit night, and a social gathering at the house of some friend, the next. Mrs. Allison hardly approved of so much gayety, but this was in her own immediate circle, and there was always some good reason why the girls should go "just this once more."
               "These strangers will leave town soon," she said to her conscience, by way of apology, "and then all will be quiet again.
               Mr. Buchanan was the life of these gatherings. Every body was charmed with him, and apparently he was charmed with somebody, if not with everybody; for the three or four days which he had at first named as the longest period of his stay, lengthened into a fortnight and he still lingered in Lanmere. Every morning he said, "I will surely go to-morrow," but when the morrow came it found him still unwilling to leave. But at length the birds of passage winged their flight to other quarters of the hemisphere, and he went with them.
               The reaction took place then, and Lanmere sank into more than its usual quietude. For several weeks those who had for the previous fortnight met almost daily, and often several times a day, scarcely saw each other save at church, or when some emergent business called them into the street. The only event of any importance was the departure of William Wentworth, who went to New Haven, accompanied by Mr. Warren. He acquitted himself nobly at the examination of candidates, and was admitted to the Sophomore class with all the honors.
               It was a proud and joyful moment for Mrs. Wentworth and Ellen when Mr. Warren returned with this intelligence.
               "How God has blest us, Ellen!" exclaimed the mother, lifting her tearful eyes heavenward. "Truly he has re membered his promise to the 'widow and the fatherless.' Ah! if your poor father could but have lived to see this day!"
               "It may be that he participates in our joy even now," whispered Ellen, softly, and the reverential pause which followed was unbroken for several minutes.
               "Mr. Warren thinks William will be able to do a good deal toward his own support while he is in college," she said, at length.
               "I hope he will—for he will be so much happier," replied Mrs. Wentworth. "He has so much independence, and is so unwilling to be a burden to his friends."
               "He is to have quite a large class in book-keeping," said Ellen, "and he is to be Dr. Wilson's amanuensis. Did you know that?"
               "No. Mr. Warren must have mentioned it while I was out of the room. What is there about it? Who is Dr. Wilson?"
               "The celebrated traveler. He is preparing two volumes of travels for the press, and most of his manuscript needs copying. Mr. Warren heard him speak of his need of an assistant, and recommended William. So now he can turn his rapid penmanship to good account."
               Meanwhile a great change was observable in Bessie. Yet after all it was a change to be felt rather than seen. She seemed to have sprung at once from the child to the woman. 
                     
                        "'A child no more! a maiden now—
                        A graceful maiden, with a gentle brow;
                        A cheek tinged lightly, and a dove-like eye,'"
                     
                   said Miss Grace, after Bessie had tripped past the parsonage one evening, smilingly returning the salutations of her brother and herself as they stood in the door-way, but declining their invitation to walk in.
               
               "Why, Grace! were you thinking of that?" exclaimed Mr. Warren. "It was just trembling on the tip of my tongue also. Mary Howitt must have met Bessie somewhere in dream-land."
               "She is very lovely—Bessie, I mean, not Mrs. Howitt," said Miss Grace, laughing. "I never thought that I was possessed of more than my due proportion of womanly curiosity; but I must acknowledge that I would like to know just the state of affairs between herself and Mr. Buchanan. How did you like him, Paul?"
               "Very well."
               "I am glad to hear it, for I was greatly pleased with him. But, somehow, I had imagined that you were not."
               "Why, Grace?"
               "I can hardly tell. I thought I perceived a certain degree of reserve and distance in your manner toward him. You were not, I imagined, quite as cordial as you usually are to those with whom you are pleased. That was all."
               "I am sorry, for it was unintentional. I liked him very much, Grace."
               "Yet I am sure there is a 'but' somewhere, Paul. 'I like him—but—' what is it, brother mine?"
               "You have no right to draw such inferences, sister mine," he replied, kissing her. "There is no 'but' in the case, I do assure you."
               Miss Grace looked earnestly in his dark eyes for a moment, ere she returned his kiss. They were not treacherous, however, and shaking her head a little, she said,
               "I can't read you exactly, Paul."
               "You do not lose much by that impossibility," he replied. "Is tea ready?"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Am I so changed?—And yet we two
                           Oft hand in hand have played;—
                           This brow hath been all bathed in dew
                           From wreaths which thou hast made.
                        
                     
                     HEMANS.
                  
               
               THE flowers had faded—all save a very few of the hardiest and latest blooming varieties; and even they looked pinched, and cold, and desolate, as they lifted their heads above the withered stalks, and gazed around in search of their lost companions. October had "come in like a lion," and the bright fire which blazed upon the hearth in Mrs. Allison's breakfast-room, flinging a cheery glow upon Debby's neatly-appointed table, was by no means uncomfortable.
               The breakfast-bell had rung twice when the girls came down stairs, rubbing their fingers, and shivering as they approached the fire. Debby heard their footsteps, and came in from the kitchen with a plate of hot buckwheat cakes.
               "Come, girls," said she, as she placed them on the table; "do come and eat your breakfast. I've got some first-rate cakes this mornin', and I know they'll taste good, seein' they're the first you've had this season. Mercy! a body'd think't was the middle o' January to see you there with them cashmere gownds on, a-warmin' your fingers. What d'ye think o' me? I was out a-milk-in' 'fore sunrise."
               "Oh, you are used to it, Debby," said Bessie, laughing, and folding the loose sleeve of her crimson wrapper about her arm as she spoke. "But why didn't you make Tom milk?"
               "Because I wanted to do it myself. The truth is, child, I get more milk from that old cow a-milkin' on her once, than he does in two milkins, I do really believe. And I'm bound to make more butter'n I did last year, so't we wont have to buy so much. Butter's riz again, and 't was awful high before. Seems to me it can't get much higher. But do come to the table, it's dreadful late."
               "Only five minutes past seven," said Margaret, seating herself behind the coffee-urn; "what is your hurry this morning, Debby? You only gave us twenty minutes to dress."
               "Why, you see, Margaret, your mother thought't was more'n likely that she'd be home to-day from Morristown. And I've got bakin' to do, and pies and cakes to make, and I want to get through and all cleaned up 'fore stage-time."
               "I don't think she will come to-day," replied Margaret; "she has been gone only two days, and she has a great deal of shopping to do, besides her other business."
               "But if she does not," said Bessie; "there will be a letter in this morning's mail, for she promised to write. Don't forget to send Tom to the post-office, Debby."
               "I'll send him," she answered, as she went to the kitchen to bake another griddle of cakes. But when she brought them in she said she would be obliged to go down street herself in the course of the morning, and would call for the mail.
               "You see if I take Tom away from his work, he'll jest make a whole forenoon's job of it, and won't get that wood chopped. But if I go to the office myself, seein' 't I've got to go to the store, 't won't take no time at all."
               "Very well," responded Bessie, and Debby returned to the region of the cooking-stove.
               "It is very queer that we neither hear nor see any thing of Mr. Buchanan," said Margaret, passing her plate for a second 'buckwheat.' "He has been in town three days, to my certain knowledge."
               Bessie made no reply, but a slight shadow passed over her face.
               "I wonder where he is staying," continued her sister; "it is not probable that he is at Mrs. Wentworth's, now that William is away from home."
               "He is boarding at Aunt Hetty's," said Bessie, quietly.
               "At Aunt Hetty's! But how do you know?"
               "Ellen told me. I saw her for a moment, yesterday."
               "He has called on her, then, has he?"
               "Yes."
               "What has brought him to Lanmere again?" asked Margaret, after a pause; "did Ellen tell you that?"
               "I did not ask her," was the reply.
               "Afraid of compromising your dignity?" said Margaret, with a little sarcastic laugh. "You must look out, Bessie. Such an Elvira and Miranda sort of friendship as yours and Ellen's is, the very one to be disturbed by a lover."
               "Mr. Buchanan is no lover of mine," said Bessie, coloring deeply, while there was a tremor in her voice; "do not give yourself any uneasiness, Margaret. I shall not quarrel with Ellen on his account."
               "I should think there was great danger of it," rejoined Margaret "judging from present appearances. You are just ready to cry, now, and your face is as red as your dress. Don't be a fool, Bessie; if I had fallen so desperately in love, I would try to keep my own counsel. Your blushes betray you."
               "It is enough to make any one blush to be so stared at," said Bessie, coloring still more as she felt, though she did not see, her sister's steady gaze. "As for keeping my own counsel with regard to any matter, it would be a difficult task. You have such a sisterly way of seeking one's confidence, that it is perfectly irresistible."
               About ten o'clock Debby returned from the post-office with a letter for Margaret. It was from Mrs. Allison, stating that she should not be home until the next day, and possibly not then. The business which had called her to Morristown would require more time than she had anticipated.
               As Debby was leaving the room after hearing the news, she gave Bessie to understand, by certain indescribable signs and motions, that she wished to see her in the kitchen. So, while Margaret was absorbed in the perusal of the last page of her letter, which she did not seem inclined to share with her sister, Bessie quietly betook herself to the department where that lady reigned supreme.
               Debby beckoned her to the remotest corner of the kitchen.
               "I've got somethin' for you," she whispered; "stowed away in my pocket. But I thought, somehow, that may be you'd rather Margaret wouldn't know nothin' about it. She's such a tease when she's a mind to be! Where do you s'pose I got this?" she continued, exhibiting the corner of a tiny note.
               "I am sure I don't know," exclaimed Bessie, seizing the note, and examining the superscription, which was in an unfamiliar hand. "Where did you?"
               "Why, I'll tell you. Just arter I come out o' the post-office, and was a-walkin' along, thinkin' that most likely your mother wan't a-comin' to-day, I heard somebody a-steppin' pretty quick behind me. I turned round—and who d'ye guess't was?"
               Bessie was not entirely without her suspicions, and she replied, simply,
               "Well, who was it?"
               "As true as you live it was that Mr. What's-his-name who was at Mrs. Wentworth's last fall—that Englishman."
               "Mr. Buchanan?" said Bessie, smiling. "He is not an Englishman. But never mind. I know who you mean."
               "Well, he stepped right up to me, and took off his hat and made a bow, jest as perlite as if I'd been the biggest lady in the hull town. And says he, 'Good-morning, Miss Debby.' Thinks I to myself, 'every body knows me, sure enough.' But I jest made a bow to him, and said 'Your sarvant, sir.' Then he took this here note out of his vest pocket, and says he, 'Will you oblige me by giving this to Miss Bessie Allison?' 'Yes, sir,' says I; 'I'll give it to her with my own hands afore she's half an hour older.' And then he smiled, and looked at me so kinder—I can't tell you how, Bessie, but it e'en a most made the tears come in my eyes—and it seemed as if he was jest a-goin' to say somethin' else. But he didn't—not until he had walked along side of me for as much as a minute, and then his voice sounded kind o' queer—as if somethin' was a-chokin' of him."
               "What did he say?" asked Bessie, breathlessly.
               "Oh, not much of any thing—only that he was jest lookin' for a boy who would carry the note, and that I had saved him the trouble of further sarch. And then he made me another bow, and walked off quick. He's the handsomest young man I ever sot eyes on, Bessie, that's a fact; and he's a real gentleman, too, or he wouldn't have spoke so perlite to a poor old body like me."
               Bessie was impatient to see the inside of her note, and she ran up stairs without replying to Debby's last remark.
               It contained simply a request from Mr. Buchanan that she would ride with him that afternoon, couched more in the form of a demand than an invitation. He said nothing ing of his return to Lanmere—nothing of the business that had brought him thither—and made no allusion to the fact that he had not yet paid his respects to her in the shape of a call.
               "Very cool, at all events," said Bessie, as with heightened color, and something of displeasure in her mien, she dropped the note upon her table. "I wonder if he really expects me to accept such a curiously-worded invitation as that? But how shall I decline it? I don't want to send Tom all over town hunting up Mr. Buchanan. I might send a line to Aunt Hetty's, and run the risk of its reaching him in season."
               So saying, or so thinking, she took up the little billet and reperused it. The impression made by this second reading was very different from that of the first. There was a certain something—an under-tone, as it were—an under-current of thought or feeling which affected her strangely.
               She sat down and clasped her hands over her eyes, while her heart beat quickly. Should she go or stay? The question was a simple one; yet a voice seemed whispering to her soul that more than the interests of the present hung upon its decision. From the first evening of her acquaintance with Mr. Buchanan she had been conscious of the existence of a strong tie between them. That he was equally conscious of it she could not doubt, although no allusion to it had ever passed the lips of either. Its nature puzzled her. It was more than friendship; for she was compelled to own that even her best friends, as she was accustomed to consider them, Ellen and William, could not fill—had never filled—the place in her heart which was occupied by this comparative stranger. It was less than love, or, rather, it was not love, in the ordinary acceptation of the word. This she felt instinctively. She was not deeply read in the lore of the heart. She had never had a "flirtation." Her affections had not been frittered away by a long series of coquetries, but lay folded up within her innocent breast as the fragrance is folded within the heart of a rose-bud. Yet she felt sure, though she could not have told why, that the tie which bound her to Wallace Buchanan was not love.
               It is very possible that there was one page—it was hardly a chapter—of Bessie's heart-history, which, if she would have read it, might have helped her to a solution of this riddle. But she would not glance at it. If, as she turned the leaves of that little book, the words thereon inscribed chanced to meet her eye for an instant, she resolutely set herself to the perusal of some other page. And if that did not answer, she closed the book, fastened the clasp securely, and put it away.
               Bessie had felt more hurt than she would have been willing to have acknowledged at Mr. Buchanan's apparent neglect. He had been in town three whole days, and had made no attempt to see her. And now this note!—not exactly cold, not exactly uncourteous, yet bordering closely upon both; while at the same time there was that certain something, pervading every line, which rendered it impossible for her to be offended at its somewhat peremptory style. There were traces of tears upon her cheeks when she at last rose, placed the note in her escritoire, and turned the key. She had determined that she would accept the invitation, or obey the command; and now she smiled to herself as she wondered which was the most appropriate form of expression—and as for the future, she would be governed by circumstances. For this once she would do as inclination prompted.
               "Mr. Buchanan passed the house since you went up stairs," said Margaret, when Bessie returned to the sitting-room; "but he was on the opposite side of the street, and never deigned to glance in this direction."
               
               "Did he not?" asked Bessie, simply by way of response.
               "No. His hat was well down over his eyes, and he hurried by as if he had a world of business on his shoulders. If you happen to meet him in the street, I hope you will not even bow to him. I shall not—that is certain."
               "Why not?"
               "Because I have some little self-respect. I suppose he does not intend to honor us by even acknowledging our acquaintance—or asking permission to renew it."
               "He has done himself the honor of inviting me to ride with him this afternoon," said Bessie, laughing, "and I intend to do him the honor of accepting the invitation."
               "He has!" exclaimed Margaret, in a tone of mingled surprise and chagrin. "But you are not in earnest about going, Bessie?"
               "Certainly I am—if he comes for me."
               "You had better not. Mother would not allow it if she were at home."
               "You have no authority for making that assertion," said Bessie, "for she allowed me to ride with him twice when he was here before."
               "Oh, well! that was a different matter. We were all walking and riding then, and no one thought any thing of it. But mother does not approve of tête-à-tête walks and rides. I have heard her say so."
               "Perhaps not, as a general rule. Yet I have the impression that she has not only approved, but actually planned and encouraged some tête-à-tête rides that I wot of. How was it about your going out to Pine Lake, last summer?"
               "That was another very different affair," said Margaret, sharply. "Mr. Warren is our minister—and—"
               "And you are Margaret Allison? Whereas Mr. Buchanan chanan is—Mr. Buchanan, and I am Bessie. Verily, 'circumstances do alter cases.' But, seriously," she continued, "if mother were here I should of course be governed by her wishes. As it is, and as I have no particular reason for supposing that she would disapprove of such a course, I shall be guided by my own inclination."
               "Do as you please," responded Margaret, "I have nothing further to say."
               A remark which seemed to be literally true; for with the exception of a sarcastic observation or two when Bessie came down stairs with her riding-dress on, she did not utter another syllable until the sound of wheels drew her eyes to the window.
               "Your gallant has arrived," she remarked, dryly. "You had better run to the door and meet him, for his horse does not seem inclined to stand still."
               Through the half-closed blind Bessie looked for a moment at the prancing, curveting steed which its master—pro tempore—was vainly endeavoring to quiet.
               "Thank you," she said, presently. "I believe I will. I know that horse. It is the one Mr. Ashley drives, and when he is first harnessed he will always dance and caracole just in that way."
               "Bessie!" exclaimed Margaret, catching hold of her dress as she was turning toward the door. "What will he think of you? You know I did not mean you to do such an improper thing. Stay here till he rings the bell, at least."
               For a minute longer Bessie peered through the blind, watching the restive animal who chafed at all restraint, and was eager to be upon the road again.
               "There seems to be little probability of his being able to do that at present," she said, disengaging her dress from her sister's grasp, "and I can not send Tom out to hold the horse, for he has gone to the mill. So I shall venture upon the impropriety. It is certainly the least of two evils."
               Margaret looked her displeasure, but Bessie went on in spite of her upbraiding glance. And as she passed through the hall it struck her that Mr. Buchanan had never entered the house. He had been at the door several times, but had never crossed the threshold.
               After the first laughing salutations were over, and the pleasantry drawn forth by the refractory steed, and by the awkwardness of Mr. Buchanan's situation at finding himself so suddenly transformed to a post, had died away, Bessie did not fail to discover that her companion was far graver than his wont. He had asked her in what direction they should proceed, and she had suggested as the terminus of their ride, the large and curiously-formed rock of which we have before spoken.
               "It is the only point of any particular interest in this vicinity, which you did not visit last summer," she said, as he wheeled his horse's head in obedience to her behest. "There was some talk of getting up a party, if you remember, but we did not seem to bring it about."
               "I recollect," he replied. "There is some Indian tradition connected with the rock, I believe?"
               "Yes," said Bessie, "a tale of love, and treachery, and revenge, terminating in death—a sad, sad story."
               "Repeat it to me," he said, "I am a great lover of these wild old legends—so full of terror and of beauty, of tempest and of sunshine."
               "There is but little sunshine in this one," she answered, shaking her head. "But I can tell it to you, if you wish."
               She repeated the story as they rode along; but ere its completion—and it was related as simply and concisely as possible—she became perfectly conscious that her words were falling upon a listless ear, that her companion scarcely heard what she was saying. His thoughts were evidently busied with some theme of far deeper and more personal interest. Gradually a feeling of restraint that was almost embarrassment crept over Bessie also. She wondered at Mr. Buchanan's changed demeanor, she was angry at herself for having consented to ride with him, and she wished that she was at home again. But as that could not be she contented herself with drawing back in her own corner of the carriage, and gazing out with a very grave and quiet face upon the autumn landscape.
               Presently a hand was laid lightly, and but for a moment, upon the one which lay upon her lap.
               "I am but a dull companion to-day," said Mr. Buchanan, smiling faintly. "Can you pardon me for inviting you to ride with me when in such a somber mood?"
               Bessie replied without turning her eyes toward him. They were filled with tears which she did not care to have him see.
               "In such moods," she said, "we sometimes feel most in need of companionship. So I ought surely to pardon you for asking it."
               But when he speedily relapsed into silence again, she could not well help thinking that her companionship was likely to afford him little gratification or benefit that day. Why he had sought it was more than she could possibly imagine.
               In this way they reached the neighborhood of the rock. Bessie having failed to observe, so great was her preoccupation of mind, that it had not been once necessary for her to point out the road. The now quiet and manageable pony seemed to have chosen the right course, in accordance with his own good will and pleasure.
               "We can ride no further," said she, turning to her companion for the first time in many minutes. "We must walk the rest of the way. This little, circuitous path through the woods, will lead us directly to the rock."
               
               They alighted, Mr. Buchanan fastened the horse to a tree, and they walked slowly onward. It may be that the light pressure of the arm which rested upon his own, charmed him in some degree from his unwonted silence and gravity; for his brow relaxed, his eye grew clearer, and he began to look about him with an expression of eagerness and curiosity. At length he paused at the foot of a large oak-tree, but a short distance from the place of their destination. The massive trunk, as well as some of the lower branches, were completely covered with hieroglyphics of all imaginable shapes and sizes—some freshly cut, and some old—so overgrown as to be scarcely decipherable. Away up above them all, were two large, deeply-cut letters—an R and an A, with the date 184—encircled by a kind of ornamental beading or scroll-work. Bessie's eye sought them immediately, as it had done every time she had visited the place since she had been old enough to notice them.
               Mr. Buchanan's eye followed hers.
               "Those are almost your initials," he said. "If the lower part of that R only curved the other way, they might stand for Bessie Allison."
               "I know whose initials they are," replied Bessie, in a low voice, while her eyes, fast filling with tears, were still bent upon the letters. "And I think, although I am not sure, that I know whose hand carved them."
               "Whose?" asked Mr. Buchanan, after a pause.
               "Reuben Allison's."
               "And he—?"
               "Was my brother."
               The soft eyes were dropped now, and large tears hung upon the long brown lashes.
               "Indeed! Have you a brother?" exclaimed Mr. Buchanan; "I never heard you speak of him before."
               "He left home when I was very young. I scarcely remember him," said Bessie. "We have never heard of him since, and I think of him as of the dead rather than of the living."
               "But of the dead—our dead," said Mr. Buchanan, speaking with evident difficulty—"we think sadly and with mournful tenderness. We keep their memories fresh and green within our hearts, and their very names are hallowed. It is not thus, surely, that you think of this brother whom you say you have scarcely known?"
               He need not have asked the question, and it needed no reply, for the tears which were falling upon the withered leaves at his feet, answered him without the aid of words. Yet after gazing for a moment, silently, but with a quivering lip, upon the bowed head at his side, he went on. Pitilessly, it seemed, for Bessie's trembling form sufficiently betrayed her emotion.
               "You know nothing of this runaway brother of yours—you have no assurance that he is worthy of such a treasure as a sister's love. It can not be that you have any affection for him? It is not reasonable to suppose it."
               "Mr. Buchanan!" exclaimed Bessie, hastily dashing away her tears, and turning her flashing eyes full upon his face. "What do you mean by catechizing me in this way? By what right do you address me thus? I do not know what to make of you to-day!"
               "Answer me but one question, Bessie," he replied; "answer it truly, and I will ask no more. Do you really care for this brother of whom you have been speaking?"
               "Care for him?—oh, Mr. Buchanan! I can not tell you how much I care for him. More than—"
               She would have proceeded, but her voice failed her.
               "And you would welcome him if he were to return?"
               She cast a sudden glance at his face, for something in his voice and manner startled her. The look which she met, but increased her agitation.
               
               "Mr. Buchanan!" she exclaimed again. "You are not asking these questions from mere curiosity. You know Reuben—you have seen him—oh, do not trifle with me, but tell me the whole truth!"
               The swimming eyes, the trembling voice, the sweetly pleading manner, the two small hands which in her excitement she placed within his own, were possessed of irresistible pathos; and Mr. Buchanan bowed his head upon the delicate fingers, while his own tears fell like rain. Yet still no suspicion of the truth flashed across her brain.
               "Speak to me!" she said, presently. "Where is Reuben? Do you know my brother?"
               No Stoic could have resisted longer. Throwing his arms about his sister's trembling form, Reuben Allison, for he it was, drew her to his heart and kissed her over and over again.
               "Bessie, my sister!" he murmured; "I have come back to you. Oh, love me!"
               Bewildered, affrighted, not comprehending the tenor of his words, Bessie lay for a moment within his arms, as if completely paralyzed. Then, while the red blood rushed in torrents to her brow, she started back, and strove to withdraw herself from his embrace.
               "Mr. Buchanan! I am—"
               "Not Mr. Buchanan, Bessie, but Reuben. Reuben Allison, your own brother. Do you not comprehend?"
               "Reuben!" she said, mechanically, while she gazed with intense eagerness upon his troubled face. "Reuben!"
               "Yes, Reuben," he repeated, clasping her to his breast again. "The same Reuben whose hand carved those letters—the brother for whom you have wept, and, I doubt not, prayed. You loved me when you did not know me, Bessie, and you must not spurn me now!"
               Bessie was gazing alternately upon the letters and upon her brother, and, as a perception of the truth dawned faintly upon her mind, a smile, like a gleam of sunshine, stole over her face. In a moment more her arms were about his neck, and her warm tears were mingling with his.
               "Reuben Allison! my own brother!" she whispered. "Can it indeed be true?"
               Reuben drew a small miniature-case from his pocket, and while one arm still encircled his sister's waist, he opened it, and held it before her eyes.
               "Did you ever see any thing like that?" he asked.
               "Why!" she exclaimed, seizing it eagerly. "I have its very duplicate—case and all. Where did you get this?"
               It was a daguerreotype of a little girl about two years old; and in the sunny eyes, the flowing curls, and the arch, yet demure expression of the tiny face, a faint resemblance to Bessie might even yet be traced.
               "It was my last gift from our father, Bessie," he replied, smiling through his tears. "I remember that I had been long teasing for a picture of my little sister, and one day he lifted me to the seventh heaven by telling me to tie on your hat and lead you to the saloon of the daguerreotypist, where he would presently join us. So I obtained the coveted prize; and then a second picture was taken, which is probably the one you have. Father died in less than a fortnight from that time, and this has been doubly dear to me, as a memento of you both."
               "I am glad you have it," said Bessie, "for it seems like a link between the past and the present. It is real and tangible, and I need something of that kind to enable me to realize all this. My brother!" she repeated. "It seems like a dream."
               "You said you scarcely remembered me, but that is not very definite. What can you recollect? Any particular circumstances?"
               
               "Oh, yes. I remember perfectly well your placing me on Towser's back, and leading him around the yard. I remember helping you pick up apples in the orchard, and standing beneath the grafted pear-tree while you dropped the fruit into my apron. But more distinctly than any thing else, I remember the day when you were kicked by the gray pony, and brought into the house with the blood streaming from the wound on your head. Oh, how frightened I was!"
               Reuben smiled as he leaned toward her, and tossing back the mass of wavy brown hair, several shades darker than Bessie's, which fell upon his right temple, exhibited a long, irregular scar.
               "I carry the marks of it to this day," he said. "It is but another proof that I am what I profess to be."
               "I do not need it, Reuben;" and Bessie laid her hand confidingly upon his shoulder as she spoke. "I am quite satisfied. My own heart tells me that you are indeed my brother. Now I know why I loved you so, even when I thought you were a certain Wallace Buchanan."
               "And did you? I thought I was more than an ordinary acquaintance to you, and yet I could hardly tell. I can give my little sister the credit of being, in her intercourse with her gentlemen friends, just exactly what I would have her be—of erring neither on the side of prudery or its opposite; and, believe me, this is no slight praise."
               Bessie's eyes sparkled at this tribute of approbation, but she made no reply. For several minutes the brother and sister sat in perfect silence, each lost in thought.
               "My mother," said Reuben, at last. "How is it with her, Bessie? How is she affected toward me? Will she receive me as her son?"
               Bessie started, and her face grew yet more thoughtful.
               "I can not tell you, Reuben," she said, after a moment's reflection. "It is difficult to read her, or to predict what course she will choose to pursue."
               "Does she ever speak of me?"
               "But seldom."
               "And then bitterly?"
               Bessie did not reply at once. She was trying to invent some form of words which should be at once truthful, and yet less harsh than the one her brother had used; but she was spared the necessity.
               "You need not answer that question," he said, laying his hand upon her head, and turning it so that he could see her face. "I am sufficiently answered by your silence. How is it with Margaret?"
               "She says but little one way or the other."
               "Perfectly indifferent, as she always was, I presume. She never loved me. I doubt whether she can love any one. I saw at the very first glance that she was unchanged—the very iceberg that she was in her childhood. I should not be here now, Bessie, if it were not for you. But have you no questions to ask me? no curiosity to be gratified? no inquiries to make?"
               "No," said Bessie, laughing a little, "for I expect you will tell me all that I could wish to know without any questioning. But I am waiting very impatiently your revelations, I do assure you."
               "Did you ever know the circumstances connected with my leaving home—ever know why I ran away?"
               "No, I know nothing of the particulars."
               "Let us find a better seat, then, and I will give you a brief outline of my history, leaving the filling up for some other time. We have forgotten all about the rock, Bessie."
               "You shall tell me your story as we sit beneath its shadow," she replied. "So shall it be hallowed to our hearts by associations far more precious than the older traditions."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Within my breast, whate'er hath seemed to be,
                           There lay a hidden fount of love, that would have gushed for thee!
                           Brightly it would have gushed, but thou, my mother, thou hast thrown
                           Back on the forests and the wilds, what should have been thine own.
                        
                     
                     HEMANS.
                  
               
               "SOMEBODY, I forget who," said Reuben, as they seated themselves upon a mossy stone beneath the shadow of the rock," has said that 'only poets remember their childhood.' I am assuredly no poet, yet certain am I that no one—be he bard, or be he not—can more distinctly recall every incident connected with his early years than can I. Until our father's death, Bessie, I was a happy boy. He was every thing to me, play-fellow, companion, guide, and instructor. I was with him so constantly, the intercourse between our hearts was so full and free, that I never felt the need of any love save that which he lavished upon me; and while he lived I never noticed, or at least realized, the coldness and hardness of my mother's nature. I have sometimes thought that it never manifested itself during his lifetime as it did after he was removed to the better land. But, be that as it may, after his death I was always in trouble. I was an impulsive, passionate child—easily angered, but as easily mollified—ready to repent of my misdeeds in dust and ashes, if approached in a spirit of kindness and conciliation, but hardening into downright stubbornness at the breath of unjust reproach or cold severity. Plastic as clay in a loving hand, I became like marble beneath the iron sway which was but too often brought to bear upon me.
               "Religion became a hateful word to me, a sort of bugbear. It was, I thought, merely another name for irk-some duties, cold formalities—the tedious committal to memory and repetition of long formulas which I could not understand, of interminable chapters which were never explained to me, and of hymns which often had neither poetry nor piety to commend them. The Sabbath was a burden, a dread, a horror. Oh! what a day it was! so long, so tiresome, when it was a sin to step into the garden, or to take a run upon the green-sward—when a smile was sacrilege, and a laugh the most unpardonable of crimes—when I was allowed to open no book save the volume of sermons which was set apart for my Sunday reading, and which was all Greek to me—and when, if from sheer weariness I fell asleep in church, I was sure to receive some severe punishment upon Monday morning. Not for worlds, Bessie, would I live over again those Sundays of my childhood.
               "As I grew older, matters grew worse and worse. I wanted to love my mother, and I longed to be loved by her in return. My little heart yearned for the sympathy and tenderness which was denied me. I pined—but I must not linger over these things, or I shall never finish my story."
               "It is not necessary, Reuben," said Bessie, who was quietly weeping. "I understand it all."
               "You have been taught in the school of experience, I doubt not, my dear sister," replied Reuben, kissing her fair forehead; "and possibly the lessons sank even more deeply into your heart than into mine. But I must hasten on to the time of my leaving home. There was to be a Circus in town. For two weeks flaming bills had been posted in conspicuous places all over the village, and at every corner might have been seen knots of boys gazing at great flaming pictures of the chariots, the horses, the Indian chief in his war-paint and feathers, the monkeys, the little ponies, the clown, and the rope-dancers. Every head was filled with thoughts of the Circus, every tongue was running upon the all-engrossing theme, every boy was wild with impatience and delightful anticipation.
               "Every boy but me. I had never been to a circus, a menagerie, a show of any kind. No great loss probably; but still I was a boy, with all a boy's eager desires and ungratified curiosity. That great white tent with the stars and stripes floating from its apex, was more to me than St. Peter's or the Pyramids would be now. As the day drew near, my desire to participate in its wonders grew stronger and stronger. My companions and schoolmates talked learnedly of the feats of the ring, of the vaulting, the leaping, the marvelous horsemanship, and the exploits of the clown—more strange and amusing, it seemed to me, than any legerdemain which the world had ever witnessed. They wondered at my ignorance, and boasted of their own acquirements, until I felt that I could endure it no longer. Go to the circus I must, even if coals of fire, which must be walked over barefoot, were in the way.
               "I did not dare ask permission to go, for I feared it would be refused, and I did not wish to be guilty of an act of open, downright disobedience. But I had a quarter of a dollar, which was the price of admission, and I determined to slip quietly out at the back-door and attend the evening performance, which my comrades assured me was always the best.
               "I carried my plan into effect. Early in the evening my mother went out to call upon a neighbor, and I speedily made my way to the Circus grounds, flattering myself that when she came home she would suppose me to be in bed, and would be fast asleep herself before my return.
               The window of my room was low, and I knew I could noiselessly enter the house through that avenue.
               "But it did not so happen. Something had doubtless excited Mrs. Allison's suspicions, for when I softly opened the window and crept in, I found her sitting in my room awaiting my arrival."
               Reuben paused, and wiped the perspiration from his brow. The recital of these incidents had recalled the past so vividly, that for the time he was a boy again, trembling beneath his mother's frown.
               "And what did she say?" asked Bessie, breathlessly.
               "Not one word," said Reuben, while his brow grew dark, and he clinched his hand until the nails seemed buried in the flesh. "Not one word, but she drew forth a raw hide which she had placed beneath the pillow of my bed, and—I can not tell you the rest, Bessie," he exclaimed, bursting into tears, which were no disgrace to his manliness; "but every one of those terrible blows, from which my light summer clothing afforded me no protection, were impelled by a mother's hand, and they fell upon the child's brain and heart with even more force than upon his back.
               "When she had fatigued herself—I could imagine no other reason for a cessation of the strokes—she pushed me upon the bed, and left the room, locking the door behind her. Singularly enough, she had forgotten that the window still afforded both egress and ingress."
               Bessie's little hand was nestling in her brother's broader palm, and the soft eyes which ever and anon sought his own, were full of unutterable sympathy and tenderness.
               "That night made a man of me, Bessie. I might have done wrong in going to the Circus, but I felt that I had deserved no such unmerciful flaggelation as I had received. Act after act of harsh injustice, or of justice un-tempered by mercy, rushed upon my memory, and I asked myself if it must be so always? The answer came at once, 'No, go out into the world, seek your own fortune, and be your own master. Your mother and Margaret will not miss you, and Bessie is too young to feel your loss.' Upon that thought I acted immediately. The moon-beams came streaming in at my window, and by their light I hastily tied up a few of my strongest and most serviceable clothes, bathed my smarting shoulders with pure cold water, cast one glance at the window of the room where you, my little pet and darling, were sleeping, and before daylight I was miles and miles away from Lanmere.
               "Whither I was going, or what I was to do, was more than I knew. But I had determined that I would seize upon the very first opportunity which should present itself for earning a livelihood, let it be what it might. And with that fixed purpose I trudged on bravely.
               "Just before sunrise, I heard a great clatter of hoofs behind me, and looking round, I saw the four little ponies which had so charmed me the evening before, coming toward me at full speed, guided by a man on horseback. Boy like, I stopped to gaze at and admire them; and just as they came up to the spot where I was standing, one of them broke his halter, and wheeling suddenly, turned into a cross-road, and scampered away like one possessed. The man stared after him for a moment, and then looked round for assistance. But I was the only mortal within sight or hearing.
               "'Here, my lad,' said he, 'can you hold these ponies, while I go after that little scoundrel? He'll run to Morristown before I can reach him, if I wait till the rest of the men come up.' I assented delightedly, although not without some fears that they might follow the example of their companion. 'They won't run,' said the man, as he gave me the halters. 'They never do. But that other one is always getting into some scrape.'
               "While I was holding them, the rest of the company came along, with the big wagons, the gilded chariot of musicians, the dismantled tent, and all their showy paraphernalia. Of course the manager of the concern stopped to ask what I was doing with the ponies. After I had explained the matter to him, he ordered his men to proceed, and remained with me himself to await the return of the runaway.
               "'Where are you going, my boy?' he asked; 'you are an early traveler.'
               "'I don't know sir,' I replied.
               "'Where do you live?'
               "'Nowhere.'
               "He laughed at this. 'Where did you come from then?' he asked. 'Back here a little way, sir,' I replied. 'What are you going to do?' was his next question. 'I am going to work, sir, as soon as I can find something to do,' I answered.
               "He looked at me earnestly for a few moments, scrutinizing every limb and feature. 'Suppose you go with me, my fine fellow,' he said, after a while. 'You seem to be a lithe active lad, and would do famously in the ring, after a little training. You are good at leaping and wrestling now, I'll warrant.'
               "'Yes, sir,' said I; 'I can jump further than any boy in school.'
               "'I thought so,' said he. 'Come, now, what do you say? good wages, good fare, and light work—better a great deal than slaving for some farmer—and a famous chance to see the world. We are going right straight to Albany, and then down to New York, stopping at all the large towns. What say now?' This proposition was just the one to tickle the fancy of a boy, and after but little hesitation I agreed to go with him.
               "'That's right,' said the man, clapping me on the back; 'we'll make a fine fellow of you, and no mistake. But what 's your name?'
               "I was not prepared for this question, and hung my head sheepishly, I doubt not. To give my real name was no part of my purpose, for it was too widely known in that vicinity, and I had not yet decided upon another cognomen. My employer noticed my embarrassment.
               "'Never mind,' said he; 'if you don't want to tell you needn't, only I must know what to call you in the bills.'
               "I thought this was wonderfully kind, never once mistrusting that he more than suspected that I was a runaway, and was quite willing to divest himself of all responsibility in the matter. 'I'll tell you by and by, sir,' said I, as the man came up with the stray pony; and we went on to the next town where we were to breakfast. I needed it badly enough, and after having satisfied my appetite, I crept into one of the wagons and slept for hours. When I awoke I was in a strange country, where I could see no familiar landmarks.
               "The selection of a name was a momentous affair. No common or plebeian appellation, such as Smith or Jones, would answer. I had recently been reading, stealthily, and by snatches, a story of Scottish border life, a wild, romantic tale, which I had borrowed of a schoolmate. The name of the hero was Wallace Buchanan, and he, to my boyish imagination, seemed the embodiment of all that was magnificent, and chivalrous, and noble. Wallace Buchanan! It was euphonious and aristocratic, and with great glee I adopted it, feeling at least two inches taller when I first saw it in the playbills.
               "I will not dwell upon the six months which followed, during which, in the fulfillment of my engagement, I remained with the Circus company. Suffice it to say that I soon discovered that 'all is not gold that glitters,' and became came heartily tired of the roving, vagabondish kind of life which had at first seemed so delightful. I will not speak of the wearisome days and toilsome nights, the aching limbs, the throbbing head, the buffetings and reproaches which fell to my lot. Amid them all, no thought of returning home ever crossed my brain. The world was wide, and lay before me; I had health and strength, energy and ambition, and with them I knew I could carve out for myself a name and a fortune.
               "I was a good scholar for my years, could write a fair hand, and was a tolerable accountant. My inclination pointed toward a mercantile life. I could think of no other as desirable. On the last day of my connection with the Circus, while meditating upon my future course, I chanced to take up the New York Herald, and turned mechanically to the list of 'Wants.' Among them 'Wanted an errand-boy,' soon struck my eye. That was nothing very unusual, or very inviting, but immediately after it were the words 'apply to Burns and Tracy.' I threw down the paper, and seized my hat. The firm was one of the first in the city, and I determined to make an effort, at least, to get into their employment. If I were faithful and diligent in an humble sphere, might I not hope for promotion to a higher?
               "Mr. Burns, a benevolent, fatherly old man, whose heart was as large as his fortune, was in his counting-room, and I was fairly in his presence before I remembered that I had no recommendations. A certificate of character from the manager of a strolling Circus company, I was well aware would have little weight with a staid, respectable merchant. But something in my manner or appearance seemed to please him, and he entered into conversation with me. I told him my story, concealing merely my real name, and my former residence. He consented to try me, telling me that he should keep his eye on me, and that if I was honest and faithful, I might expect promotion.
               "I was both. During the first year my wages were a mere trifle, but I contrived to live, I hardly know how. With the second year came an increase of wages, and an under-clerkship. I had won the confidence of my employers.
               "Mr. Burns did not forget his promise. He not only 'kept his eye on me,' but he taught me to look upon him as a friend. He was ever ready to advise and counsel me. He encouraged me to avail myself of every means of improvement within my reach. His large and well-selected library was thrown open to me, and as I grew older he received me into his family circle, and introduced me to his friends.
               "Step by step I mounted the ladder. At length I became confidential clerk, with a salary which, in my boyhood, I should have deemed magnificent. In that capacity I twice visited Europe, and last year the firm of 'Burns and Tracy' became that of 'Burns, Tracy, and Buchanan.'"
               Bessie drew a long breath.
               "There! we have got back to the present again," she said; "but, Reuben, you have not told me of your first acquaintance with William Wentworth. Does he know who you are? how did you happen to discover that he was from Lanmere, and was a friend of ours, or rather, a friend of mine?"
               "He has not the slightest suspicion that I am your brother," was the reply; "I was, as you know, a passenger on board the 'Mariner.' Very soon after we left New York my attention was attracted by William's pale, intellectual face, his gentlemanly demeanor, and the quiet self-possession of his bearing, in the midst of scenes that were evidently new to him, and notwithstanding the disadvantages advantages of his lameness. I was able to do him many little kindnesses, but though born in Yankee land, I have not an over-abundance of Yankee inquisitiveness, and it was by mere accident that I discovered his place of residence. One day he was quite unwell, and did not leave his state-room. In the course of the morning, I discovered a book which I had seen in his hand the previous day, lying upon one of the sofas in the cabin; and thinking that he might like to have it, I picked it up, and carried it to him. He was lying down, and looked a little sad and homesick. I seated myself by his side, and began to talk to him, with no object in view save to help him while away a tedious hour or two. As I sat there my eye fell upon a small black leather trunk—"
               "Oh! Reuben!" exclaimed Bessie, clasping her hands; "now I know all about it."
               "A small, black, leather trunk," he continued, smiling, "which seemed strangely familiar. I got up, under pretense of looking out of the window, but, in reality, that I might examine it more closely. My heart leaped to my throat when I discovered the initials R. A. upon the top. I had driven those brass nails with my own little hammer. How well I remembered the spot where—the time when—the very hour! And I could not be mistaken as to its identity, for I had had some difficulty in forming the R., and had drawn out the nails, and driven them in again two or three times before I could shape it to my satisfaction. As I stooped to pick up my pocket-handkerchief which I very accidently dropped, I perceived the prints of the nails, the very disfiguration which I had so deplored. It carried me straight back to the old garret, to my boyhood's home, to my father's grave, to my little Bessie.
               "I would not have believed that any thing connected with my earlier years could have affected me so powerfully. I had supposed myself completely weaned. I had kept your little miniature as a sacred relic, but your memory had grown vague and dream-like, and when I thought of you at all, it was much as I would have done if you had died in your infancy. New associations, new hopes, new objects of interest, new ambitions, had made me completely their own, and the past, though unforgotten, was overshadowed by the importunate present.
               "But that trunk!
               "It was with great difficulty that I commanded myself sufficiently to go back to my seat, and resume my conversation with William. I need not say that I soon contrived to lead it to himself and his own affairs. I induced him to speak of his home and its associations. His lameness was a fruitful topic, for, in the gratitude of his heart, he could not allude to it without referring to the friends who had befriended him. Our acquaintance rapidly ripened into friendship, and in a very few days I had become quite well acquainted not only with Mrs. Wentworth and Ellen, but with Miss Grace and Mr. Warren, and with good Dr. Elliot, whom I had by no means forgotten; and had discovered that my sister Bessie was standing upon the verge of womanhood, more than fulfilling the sweet promise of her infancy. Of my mother and Margaret I learned less, but enough to convince me that they were scarcely altered.
               "But all this awoke within my breast a deep, homesick yearning, which I can not describe to you. My life, in spite of all the brilliant future which lay before me, seemed so poor, so lonely, so isolated. I had no home-ties, no strong attachments, none of those deeply-rooted loves which are the anchors of the soul. I was a waif, an estray, an exile. William Wentworth, poor, lame, with the prospect of a life of comparative drudgery before him, seemed so enviable a being, for he was rich in home, in friends, in the true wealth of the heart. I felt that I must see Lanmere once more, that I must breathe its air, and retrace the paths I had trodden in my childhood. So I came back, Bessie, sure that no one would recognize me, for the boy had become a man, bearing scarce a trace of his former self, and with no idea of revealing myself to any one. My early friends, I thought, if I had any, believed me dead, and as such I would remain to them. I would but gaze upon your face again, look but once upon the 'old familiar places,' and then return to that other sphere where all my worldly interests lay. I believed that one draught from the home-fountain would quench this new and burning thirst, and that I could then go back, satisfied and contented, to the life which had for so many years been sufficient for my needs."
               "But it did not quench it, Reuben," said Bessie, smiling through the tears which were dropping from her eyes, "One draught was not enough!"
               "No, darling, it was not. A hundred times last summer I was on the point of revealing myself to you, but was checked by the thought that you had probably been taught to regard me as a reprobate, and that if you knew me to be your brother, you might shrink from me with scorn and aversion. It was in such a mood that I left you, and returned to New York. But nature was stronger than I thought, and would have her way. She brought me back to the fountain again, Bessie. Yet, even when standing upon its brink, I paused and trembled, and was fain to turn away, ere my lip had touched the sparkling waters."
               Bessie's heart was too full for many words, and for some time the brother and sister sat with their arms about each other, in that silent communion which is often more eloquent than speech. At length the latter raised her head, and looked eagerly around her.
               "It is past sundown, Reuben. It will be quite dark before we can get home. I did not think it was so late."
               
               "Neither did I; and it is growing damp and cold. You are shivering already, Bessie. Here, let me fold your shawl more closely about you, and we will go back to the carriage. I have not taken very good care of you this time, my little sister."
               Caresses and endearments were luxuries to which the "little sister" was almost as much a stranger as Reuben himself. As she felt the clasp of his loving arms again, and met the fond glance of his dark-brown eyes, her tears started afresh, and laying her head upon his breast she wept in utter abandonment. But what happy tears they were! Smiles had never been half as sweet.
               "There!" said Reuben, half laughing, as he released her from that long embrace, and imprinted another kiss upon her glowing cheek. "There! that must answer for the present, for when we are on the road once more, with our faces turned toward Lanmere, I am Mr. Wallace Buchanan, and you are Miss Bessie Allison."
               Bessie looked at him in perfect dismay.
               "You are not in earnest, Reuben. You are only trying to tease me."
               "No, darling. My teasing proclivities are dormant today; I do assure you I am in sober earnest. But the revelations of this afternoon belong, for the present, to you and me alone, and we must do nothing that will excite suspicion. I must leave you to-morrow—"
               "Leave me to-morrow!" interrupted Bessie, catching hold of her brother's arm as if to detain him by main force. "Why, you are not going away again, Reuben?"
               "I must, Bessie; I ought to have gone to Europe in the last steamer, but I could not go until I had seen you. Now I must hasten back to New York in season for the next, which sails on the twelfth of this month."
               Poor Bessie! The glow had faded from her face. This was so different from that which she had been anticipating.
               "And how long will you be gone?"
               "To England? I must remain there a month or more. And in the mean time, Bessie, do not by look or word, indicate to any one that I am any other than Wallace Buchanan. You will promise me this, dear? You will grant the first boon that your brother asks of you, will you not?"
               "Yes, if you insist upon it. But whence the necessity for this silence? I had hoped that you would go home with me, to-night, and that henceforth Reuben Allison would fill the place at his mother's board and by his mother's fireside, to which he is by right entitled."
               He shook his head.
               "Not yet, not quite yet. My mother is not at home, I believe?"
               "No. She may come to-morrow, but it is doubtful."
               "I am not yet in the right mood for meeting her, even if she were. But I certainly can not establish myself under her roof during her absence. And to-morrow I must away again. Yet this is not my most important reason for demanding this pledge of secrecy. From my partners, and particularly from Mr. Burns, I have received unbounded kindness, and to them both I am under infinite obligations. But they are neither of them aware that the name by which they have known me, is not the one to which my birth entitles me, and I can not make such an avowal to the world until after I have taken them into my confidence, I should feel as if there were both disloyalty and ingratitude in such an act."
               "I will not betray you, Reuben," she replied, somewhat sadly, "for I presume you are in the right. But I hate secrets, and I shall count the hours until your return. At what time to-morrow do you leave? Am I not to see you again?"
               "I had intended to take the early stage, at six o'clock," he said, musingly, "but I believe there is another which leaves at eleven. I suppose that will answer my purpose just as well."
               "Oh, do wait till eleven," exclaimed Bessie, "and then I can see you in the morning."
               "How?" asked Reuben, smiling. "I can not go to the house, even to see you, and if I should take you to ride again to-morrow morning, all the gossips in Lanmere would be in arms."
               "To say nothing of Margaret," said Bessie, returning the smile. "But see you I must and will. Do you remember Hemlock Hollow—a little ways from Aunt Hetty's?"
               "Perfectly."
               "I will be there at precisely nine o'clock. It is a quiet spot, and at that hour in the morning no one will be likely to see us. But how do you happen to be boarding at Aunt Hetty's, Reuben?"
               "Oh! there was a ball at the Lanmere House the night that I came into town, and not a room was to be had there for love or money. But the landlord, who seems to be an obliging sort of a man, went to Aunt Hetty's with another young gentleman and myself, and she consented to give us board and lodging."
               "She often has boarders;" said Bessie "but I wondered how you found your way there."
               Reuben allowed the pony to choose his own pace, and that was a very slow one. He was by no means as frolicsome now as when they first started. But there was so much to be said, and so little time in which to say it! No wonder that neither the brother or the sister cared for a rapid drive. Lamps were gleaming along the village street, and streaming from the windows of Mrs. Allison's sitting-room, when at length they paused before the gate.
               "At nine o'clock precisely, Bessie," whispered Reuben as he lifted her from the carriage, and they parted with a quiet clasp of the hand.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               
                  
                     
                        Whither away so fast?
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               TEA was waiting when Bessie entered the house, and Margaret sat by the fire, with a frown upon her face, evidently in a very ill-humor.
               "I believe you are beside yourself, Bessie Allison," she said, without turning her head, as her sister untied her hat, and tossed it carelessly upon the center-table. "You have been gone five long hours."
               "Have I? I had no idea it was so late," replied Bessie, by way of apology.
               "Very likely," said Margaret, dryly. "If mother had been at home, you would not have dared to stay out so late—and with a young gentleman too. I am really ashamed of you, Bessie. It is perfectly scandalous."
               Here Debby opened the door, and peeped in.
               "Home again, Bessie?" she said, nodding and smiling with so knowing a look that in spite of herself, the color deepened in the fair girl's cheek. "Had a nice ride? Well, come now and eat your supper, for I want to wash the dishes. I've got some mending to do to-night. I made some first rate biscuits," she added in a whisper, as Margaret brushed hastily past her, on her way to the dining-room, "and put on the best silver, for I thought just as like as not that handsome young man would come in and take tea. Why didn't he?"
               Bessie made some evasive reply, and presently joined Margaret at the table. But the biscuits were hardly touched, for the temper of the one sister interfered with her appetite, and the other was far too much excited by the occurrences of the afternoon to feel the need of food. The meal was partaken of in perfect silence, but after they returned to the sitting-room again, Margaret's curiosity compelled her to speak.
               "What is Mr. Buchanan doing in Lanmere?" she asked, petulantly. "Did he condescend to tell you?"
               "He was riding with me this afternoon," said Bessie, quietly. "He said he should call at Mrs. Wentworth's this evening, and to-morrow he leaves town."
               "To-morrow!—for my part I do not consider his attentions much of an honor to any young lady. He is no gentleman."
               "Why not?" asked Bessie, half amused and half angry.
               If Margaret had answered this question orally as she did mentally, she would have said, "Because he has not called upon me." But this her pride would not allow her to do, and muttering some indistinct reply, she took up a book, and commenced turning over the leaves. That she was not very deeply absorbed in her reading was, however, sufficiently evident; and at an early hour, wearied with the stream of reproach and invective which fell from her sister's lips, Bessie took a candle and retired to her own room.
               But it was long past midnight before she could compose herself to sleep. The dead was alive, the lost was found. Her brother was restored to her, and although Margaret's unkindness might annoy—for that one night, at least—it had lost its power to grieve her.
               It was late ere she slept, yet the stars were still sparkling in the darkened sky when she awoke. But day-light was approaching, and one thought of Reuben drove away the last remains of drowsiness. Dressing herself, expeditiously, yet carefully, she put her room in order, and went down stairs. Half an hour afterward as Margaret passed the door of her sister's room which stood ajar, she placed her hand upon it, and pushed it open.
               "Bessie is in a great hurry this morning," she thought, as her eye fell upon the neatly-made bed. "I wonder what is to be done to-day? More rides to be taken, perhaps."
               Thus thinking, she made her way to the breakfast-room, determining to keep her eyes open.
               There was little in Bessie's appearance, however, to awaken suspicion. After the cakes and coffee were disposed of, she went quietly about her usual morning duties, yet not failing, be it known, to keep her eye upon the clock. At precisely half-past eight, she put on her hat and shawl which she had purposely left on a table in the hall, stole out of a side door, and turned into a little by-path leading to Hemlock Hollow.
               But not unobserved. A pair of keen black eyes had noticed all these movements, and as Bessie left the house, their owner sprang up stairs, two steps at a time, to watch her course from an upper window.
               She did not stay there long. Tying on an old black hood and a dark, unnoticeable cloak, Margaret also went out of the side door, and followed her sister, creeping stealthily along at a safe distance, and taking care to keep in the shadow of the alder bushes which bordered the lane upon either side.
               As she had anticipated, Bessie went directly to the Hollow, and paused within the shelter of the little clump of trees which had given it its name. Margaret stole between the alders and the fence, and drew gradually nearer and nearer, until she reached a point where every movement of her sister was distinctly visible, although it would have been difficult to have distinguished voices at that distance. She had scarcely done so when a tall figure, which she instantly recognized as that of Mr. Buchanan, approached from the opposite direction.
               Bessie sprang into his arms; and with a horror-stricken face, Margaret witnessed the embrace and kiss which followed, and saw them seat themselves upon a fallen tree, with their arms still encircling each other. She watched them for several minutes as they sat there, engaged in earnest conversation; and then, fearful lest by some means her own hiding-place should be discovered, she glided rapidly along behind the bushes and was soon at home. When Bessie came into the sitting-room at half-past ten, Margaret was completely engrossed with her sewing, and could scarcely spend time to answer when addressed.
               That day and the next passed slowly away, and on that which followed, Mrs. Allison returned, laden with purchases, and with her head full of the business which had called her to Morristown. Important business it was, involving the loss of half of her estate; and now that the legal questions were happily settled in her favor, she was in unusually good spirits, and had allowed herself to furnish the winter wardrobes of her daughters and herself in a style which, in some moods, she would have deemed absolute extravagance. All that day Margaret was so taken up with the examination of cloaks and bonnets, and dresses and collars, that she gave scarce a thought to what had been an all-engrossing theme—her sister's secret. She had not said a word to Bessie concerning her fancied discovery, contenting herself with sundry allusions to "improprieties," "unmaidenly conduct," "forward and unbecoming behavior," and so forth; which allusions gave Bessie, poor child, no particular uneasiness, as she supposed them to be solely owing to her ride.
               But at the breakfast-table the next morning Mrs. Allison's face wore an expression even more severe than the one which was habitual, while Margaret seemed swelling with importance, and Bessie drank her coffee as unconcernedly as usual. The truth was, her mind was elsewhere; and the chilling atmosphere which surrounded her, in spite of the steaming urn, and the cheerful wood-fire which was roaring and crackling upon the hearth, was entirely unnoticed. It was the day upon which Reuben was to sail for England, and her thoughts "were with him on the sea."
               "I wish to see you in my room, Bessie," said Mrs. Allison, as they rose from the table, "as soon as you have finished your morning duties. And be as expeditious as possible."
               "Yes, ma'am," replied Bessie, hastening away and going about her work with a bird-like carol. The dressmaker was coming that morning, and she supposed herself invited to a general consultation over silks and merinos.
               She was very happy. Now that the first tumult of feeling had died away, and she had had time to think and to reflect, her heart was overflowing with exultant joy and gratitude. It seemed to her that she had never lived before. For the first time in her young life, her heart had met with a perfect response. She was loved even as she loved, and as she wished to be loved. She gave no thought to the position Reuben had acquired, save as an evidence of his talents and enterprise. The one thought which sent the life-current more swiftly through her veins, was that he loved her, and that she might love him with no fear of meeting with a repulse, or with the hateful charge of sentimentalism. And in a month or two he would be with her again, and in the face of the world she might then claim him as a brother.
               But when she entered her mother's room, one glance was sufficient to tell her that she had mistaken the nature of the summons. Mrs. Allison sat in her large rocking-chair just in front of the fireplace, but there was no signs of the dress-maker or her trappings.
               "I am inexpressibly shocked, Bessie," began Mrs. Allison, with her severest face and hardest manner—"I am inexpressibly shocked at your conduct during my absence. Wild and reckless as you are, I would not have believed it of you."
               "To what do you refer, mother?" asked Bessie, in a low voice, while her heart leaped to her throat.
               "To what do I refer? It is impertinent for you to ask such a question, even. You know very well that I would not have allowed you to ride with Mr. Buchanan if I had been at home."
               "I could not know that, mother," said Bessie, firmly, but respectfully, "for I rode with him twice last summer with your permission. I had no reason to suppose that you would withhold it now."
               "That was a very different matter. There were others in the company."
               "But not in the same carriage, mother. They were tête-à-tête rides, to all intents and purposes."
               "An idle scapegrace from the city," continued Mrs. Allison. "No one knows who or what he is, or whether he is worthy of admission to decent society. I wonder that your own self-respect did not teach you to keep clear of him."
               "His position, at least, is well established, mother," replied Bessie. "There are many in town who have long been familiar with the firm of 'Burns and Tracy,' and who feel perfectly sure that they would never have made an 'idle scapegrace' a partner in their business. They are both upright and honorable men, and Mr. Buchanan's connection with them is a sufficient guarantee for his own character."
               "Upright men are sometimes deceived," said Mrs. Allison, sharply; "and, moreover, I do not consider it by any means certain that this fellow belongs to the firm. We have nothing but his own word for it. I have regarded him from the very first as a mere adventurer. What brought him up here, in the first place? Not merely his wonderful fancy for that William Wentworth, I'll engage. He is in pursuit of a fortune, and probably thinks he is upon the right track now. But I tell you, Bessie Allison, once for all, that I shall never allow you to marry him. You have dared to form an engagement without consulting me, and you shall never fulfill it."
               "I have formed no engagement mother," said Bessie, smiling, because she could not help it. "I do not wish to marry Mr. Buchanan."
               "Not wish it? Do not add falsehood to your other sins, Bessie. It will be of no avail if you do, for I understand the whole matter. There are pens and paper upon that table. Sit down and write to Mr. Buchanan, in your own name, such a letter as I shall dictate."
               "I can not, mother. You are entirely mistaken. I am not engaged to Mr. Buchanan, neither has he ever sought to draw me into an engagement. He has never asked me to marry him."
               Mrs. Allison kept her eye sternly and steadily upon Bessie's for full a minute, but hers did not waver.
               "Are you telling me the truth, Bessie Allison?"
               "Yes, mother, the sober truth."
               Mrs. Allison clasped her hands and sank back in her seat with an expression of horror and dismay.
               "Then what does it all mean?" she exclaimed, lifting up her hands in holy indignation. "What can it mean, save that you are a shame and a disgrace to the mother who bore you? How do you dare—?" but here her breath failed her, and she stopped suddenly.
               
               Bessie was unprepared for this burst of vituperation, and her eyes sank under her mother's fiery gaze, while her cheeks grew red and white by turns.
               At this mute confession of her guilt, for as such Mrs. Allison regarded it, her wrath waxed stronger than ever, and, springing from her seat, she seized her daughter by the arm and shook her violently. We will not pollute our pages with the words that, in her anger, broke from her white lips.
               Bessie's eye kindled now, and she looked up dauntlessly into her mother's face, as with quiet dignity she drew her arm from her grasp.
               "What do you mean, mother?" she asked, calmly. "I am glad to say that I can not understand you. There are no such terms in my vocabulary."
               It was Mrs. Allison's turn to look abashed. Alone as they were, she was mortified at her unwomanly rage, and at the coarse and bitter words to which it had impelled her.
               But she did not say as much. On the other hand, she strove to keep up appearances, and sailing back to her seat again, she recommenced her inquisition.
               "Did you ever hear of such a place as Hemlock Hollow, Miss Bessie Allison?" she asked, rather more gently, but in a voice which still trembled.
               Bessie gave an involuntary start, and again the cheeks reddened. She had supposed that her late ride was the sole cause of this unusual outbreak on her mother's part. But what was she to say now? How could she defend herself without betraying Reuben?
               "I expect to be answered when I address my daughters," said Mrs. Allison, presently. "Speak! What business had you at Hemlock Hollow last Wednesday morning?"
               But Bessie did not speak. Literally she could not, for embarrassment and distress impeded her utterance. That her interview with Reuben had been witnessed by some one she could no longer doubt, and what explanation could she give of the matter?
               "You went there to meet Mr. Buchanan," proceeded Mrs. Allison, slowly and hardly. "You sprang into his arms. You granted him favors such as a truly modest girl would shrink from granting even to an acknowledged and accepted lover. Why, I did not allow your father even to kiss me until we had been engaged one whole year! Yet you received from this comparative stranger—and, what is worse, returned—such caresses as would have been unmaidenly and imprudent even if you had been betrothed to him. No wonder that I was shocked when you said that he had never given you an opportunity to become so. Such conduct is shameful! scandalous! If you have any thing to say which will brighten the aspect of things I shall be very glad to hear it."
               "I can only say," said Bessie, wiping away the tears which no consciousness of innocence could keep from her eyes, "that I have been guilty of no impropriety, either of thought, or word, or deed."
               "How?" exclaimed Mrs. Allison. "Guilty of no impropriety? Do you dare to deny having met Mr. Buchanan in the Hollow?"
               For a moment Bessie hesitated. The temptation to equivocate was very strong, and the particular way in which her mother had propounded the query rendered it easy to do so. But she was too truthful for that.
               "Mother," she said, after a little pause, "did I ever tell you an untruth?"
               "No. I do not remember that you ever did."
               "Did I ever try to deceive you? Have I ever, willfully and deliberately, striven to give you false impressions with regard to any thing that I had said or done?"
               
               "I can not say that you have. At least I do not recollect any such instance now."
               "Have you ever known me to be guilty of an act of real indecorum, or of immodesty?"
               Mrs. Allison did not reply at once. Bessie's natural exuberance of spirits, her playful vivacity, and the elasticity and buoyancy of her temperament, led her into a thousand deviations from the perfectly straight path—the bee-line—upon which her mother wished her to walk. Bessie's "wildness" and "frivolity," her "indiscretions" and her "frailties," had become standard phrases upon the lips of both Mrs. Allison and Margaret. Yet now, as the former ran her eye rapidly backward, she could bring up no act to which she could point as a serious, downright impropriety.
               "No," she said, at last. "I do not know that I ever have."
               "Then, mother," exclaimed Bessie, bursting into tears again, but speaking clearly and distinctly, by a painful effort, "will you not trust me now? Will you not have confidence enough in me to believe that I have done nothing worthy of censure? I could not so suddenly forget the teachings and habits of years, mother. I could not at once lay aside, as you seem to suppose, all maidenly reserve and delicacy. Do have faith in me, mother!"
               "I can have no blind faith in any one," said Mrs. Allison, coldly. "If you wish me to trust you, you must explain all that is dark and mysterious in your conduct. Mere protestations will not satisfy me."
               Bessie said nothing, but wept silently.
               "Do you hear me?" asked Mrs. Allison. "I demand an explanation of this whole matter."
               "I can not give it, mother," said Bessie, approaching her mother, and placing her hand timidly upon her arm. "Not now, that is. Sometime—before a great while, I trust—I shall be able to make it as clear as day to you. Trust me, mother, and believe that I would not willingly displease you."
               With a cold and haughty gesture, Mrs. Allison threw off the little hand which lay upon her arm.
               "I am not a child, to be coaxed and flattered into a reconciliation, Bessie. And even if I were, your caresses are too easily won to be of any worth. Explain this matter at once."
               "I can not, mother—not now," said Bessie, weeping afresh.
               "Be it so," said Mrs. Allison, rising. "But, until you do, be it sooner or later, you must consider yourself in disgrace, and under the ban of my displeasure. Go to your room now. When you have reflected awhile, perhaps you will regain your senses, and conclude that it is best to obey me."
               Bessie retired, with one glad thought at her heart, and only one. She had kept Reuben's secret. She had not betrayed his confidence, Reflection but strengthened her determination to keep both the letter and the spirit of her promise, until she met him again. Silence as to the revelation he had made to her was the first and the only boon which her brother had asked of her; and she felt that she could not tell how much might depend upon it. At any rate she would not hazard his interests, or his reconciliation with his mother, by any premature developments.
               What being in disgrace was, or rather how she was to be made to realize that she was in disgrace, she was at first unable to determine. But, as the days rolled on, she felt it in her very heart's core. No apparent restraint was placed upon her actions. She was not confined to her room, but came and went at her pleasure. She took her meals with the family, and sat with her mother and Margaret at their work, yet at every turn she was forced to feel that she was under constant espionage. Argus eyes were upon her at every step. The disagreeable consciousness that she was watched harassed her from morning till night. If she went to her room, Mrs. Allison or Margaret speedily followed her. If she went into the garden, the eyes of one or the other were upon her from the window. If she put on her bonnet to go out, her sister's made its appearance also, and they went in company And more than all, Margaret, who for years had insisted upon sleeping alone, moved her quarters into Bessie's room, without saying as much as "by your leave," and established herself there for the winter.
               Ordinarily these things would not have disturbed Bessie in the least. She had no hermitical love of solitude, and she had no sickly fancies over which to brood. It was the ever-intrusive motive which gave the sting to the apparently harmless deed.
               No allusion to Mr. Buchanan passed Mrs. Allison's lips after that morning; and, indeed, but very few allusions to any thing, as far as Bessie was concerned. She spoke to her when it was absolutely necessary—not otherwise; and even then, her wishes, or her commands, were expressed in the fewest possible words. Margaret took her cue from her mother, but she could not follow it perfectly. The cold and silent manner which the latter adopted as the sign of her displeasure, in the former became a sort of self-satisfied arrogance, which was inexpressibly irritating, and hard to bear.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               
                  
                     
                        I do suspect thee very grievously.
                     
                     KING JOHN.
                  
               
               IT is a little singular, the frequency with which affairs of a peculiarly private nature become matters of public notoriety, while no one in particular seems to be responsible for their promulgation. In less than a fortnight from the time of Bessie's conversation with her mother, there were probably not twenty persons within the circle of her acquaintance, who were unaware that she was, to use Mrs. Allison's phraseology, "in disgrace;" not twenty who did not know that some shadow had fallen upon her pathway. No one could have told exactly what that shadow was, or whence it fell. But there were vague hints, and wise shakes of the head when her name was mentioned, slight intonations that all was not as it should be, and faint whispers of something wrong. And 
                     
                        "Alas! for the rarity
                        Of human charity
                        Under the sun!"—
                     
                   there were perhaps not five tenths of the number upon whose ears these half-fledged rumors had fallen, who were not ready to adopt as their own, the words which we have selected as the heading of this chapter—"I do suspect thee very grievously." No delicate flower, that has throughout its short, sweet life been shielded alike from the scorching sunbeams and from the biting frost, will droop more quickly if exposed to either, than will the fair fame of a young girl, beneath the poisoned breath of calumny.
               As Bessie went out but little, and never unaccompanied by her mother or sister, she would probably have remained entirely ignorant of all this, had it not been for Margaret's officiousness. The latter took good care that every ungenerous remark, every bitter or uncharitable speech which reached her own ears, should be duly reported to her sister. And but too often, we are sorry to say, they were so garbled and distorted, that the lips which first gave them utterance would scarcely have recognized them as they fell from hers.
               As time passed on, Bessie began to feel as if she were friend-deserted. Her mother's icy reserve and oppressive dignity had not in the least abated. "I can not trust you. You are utterly unworthy of my confidence and affection," was written upon her every action. Neither was Margaret a whit more companionable or less unkind. Often before had a smaller degree of the same evils wounded and grieved her; but her experience had brought her nothing like this, so long-continued, so constant. She had not seen Ellen once since Reuben's departure, save in Margaret's presence; and at those times she saw, or fancied that she saw, a shade of coldness in her manner also. Mr. Warren did not come near the house, and she saw him only at church. Miss Grace was confined with a sprained ankle. Margaret had visited her frequently, but Bessie—sure that it would be refused—had never dared to ask permission to do so.
               Her heart began to grow sick with a feverish longing for Reuben's return. Only that could remove the incubus which was preying upon her spirits. Only that could restore her to the position she had previously occupied. Margaret's representations, or rather her misrepresentations, had thrown a false coloring over the matter; and had given her the impression that her name had become a by-word and a reproach, and that those who had previously been her best friends now purposely avoided her. This was not so. None of those who had been thrown into any thing like intimate relations with her—none of those who had had the slightest glimpse of her inner life, thought ill of her, unless it was her mother and Margaret. And if the truth must be told, neither did the former really believe her guilty of any gross violation of the laws of propriety. But she had thus far been thwarted in her attempt to unravel the mystery of Bessie's relations with Mr. Buchanan, and she was determined to persevere until she had accomplished her purpose.
               November was drawing to a close, and there was no change in the aspect of things. Bessie's state of mind was becoming almost morbid. She saw coldness where none existed, and fancied that she read reproach and aversion upon faces whose owners had never dreamed of looking upon her save with kindness. This lent to her manner a restraint and embarrassment which might easily have been mistaken for that of conscious guilt. Aware of this, yet unable to appear differently—feeling that she was not herself—she shrank from all society, and went nowhere but to church. She would not have gone there, even, had she not been compelled to do so.
               "Have you seen Bessie Allison lately?" asked Miss Grace of her brother, one evening about that time.
               "Not very lately," he replied, without lifting his eyes from his book.
               "She was at church last Sunday."
               "Yes. But I did not get one glimpse of her face. That thick green vail which she wears so constantly, is a very effectual screen."
               He spoke, without being conscious of it, a little bitterly.
               "She wept through the whole service," continued Miss Grace. "I sat just behind her, and her tears really distracted me. I didn't hear one word of your sermon, my dear brother."
               "Wept!" exclaimed Mr. Warren, looking up suddenly. "I did not notice it. What could have been the matter?"
               "I do not know. But it is evident to me that the child is very miserable. Why, Paul, she looks five years older than she did two months ago."
               "Your imagination used to run away with you, occasionally, when you were younger, Grace. How is it now-a-days?"
               "There is no imagination about it. You have not been to Mrs. Allison's for several weeks, have you?"
               "No," said Mr. Warren, suffering his eyes to fall upon his book again.
               "Then you have had no opportunity to notice the queer state of things there. I do not know what to make of it. The manner in which her mother and sister treat Bessie is at once very singular and very disagreeable. One would almost think she had been committing some terrible offense."
               Mr. Warren said nothing.
               "What ails you, Paul?" asked Miss Grace, playfully laying her hand upon the page. "What makes you so wonderfully studious this evening? Come, let me put away this book, for I am in a talking mood. Can it be that Mrs. Allison—Bessie's own mother—would allow herself to be influenced by those foolish stories?"
               "What stories?"
               "About Mr. Buchanan and Bessie. Some nonsense as to their meeting clandestinely, and I know not what. I heard it long ago, but did not consider it worth repeating."
               "Mere gossip, probably," said Mr. Warren. "I was not aware that there had been any thing of the kind said.
               It is of but little consequence, however. Their marriage will put an end to all that sort of thing."
               "But there is no marriage in the case, Paul. And that is what puzzles me. I wish Mr. Buchanan had spent the last summer in England; or, at least, had not turned his face in this direction."
               "No marriage, Grace?" said Mr. Warren, wheeling suddenly round; "no marriage?"
               "So Mrs. Allison herself told me," replied Miss Grace; "quite gratuitously, too. She said that she understood there had been some remarks made concerning Mr. Buchanan and Bessie, but that she could assert positively that no engagement had ever existed between them."
               "Because she would not allow it, probably," said Mr. Warren, "if such is the case."
               "No," said Miss Grace, "she did not put the matter upon that footing at all; although she did remark that she had not a very high opinion of him. But she said he had never paid his addresses to Bessie; that Bessie herself declared that he had never given her an opportunity to pledge herself to him."
               "Then he is a villain," exclaimed Mr. Warren, springing to his feet, and rapidly pacing the floor. "I can call him by no softer name, Grace. If this be true, he is a villain."
               Miss Grace looked at her brother for a minute, somewhat surprised at his unusual agitation.
               "Say, rather, that he is a male coquette, Paul," said she, laughing a little, "and that he has perhaps been trifling with the feelings of our village beauty. It is bad enough, I admit; but still, as the times go, not exactly villainous. I am really afraid that the villains would outnumber the rest of the community, if you were to class with them all the coquettes, both male and female."
               But Mr. Warren did not smile.
               
               "Nevertheless, Grace," he said, still continuing his walk; "I repeat, that if this be true, he is a villain. I have, I believe, as much charity as any one, and I can look as leniently as there is any necessity for looking, upon the indulgence of a passing flirtation. But this matter had become far more than that. It had taken a more serious aspect."
               "How do you know, Paul?"
               "By what my own eyes have witnessed," he replied, resuming his seat by his sister's side, but still speaking with unusual earnestness, while his hand trembled, and there was a small red spot in the center of each cheek; "I can not explain myself, Grace, without mentioning that to which I intended never to allude. But I have the utmost confidence in your discretion. Do you recollect the day that I went to Mount Roswell?"
               "Perfectly."
               "On my return I reached the Indian Rock about sundown. Wearied with my long ride, and tempted also by the beauty of the place, and its romantic associations, I fastened my horse to a tree, and approached the Rock. As I did so, the sound of low voices arrested my steps. At a little distance from me sat Bessie and Mr. Buchanan. One glance sufficed to show me that the former was weeping violently, while her companion was attempting to soothe her by the tenderest caresses."
               Here Mr. Warren came to a sudden pause.
               "Well?" said Miss Grace, after a while.
               "Of course I turned away, and retraced my steps immediately, and as silently as possible. Yet if they had not been so completely engrossed with each other they must have heard me. I saw nothing more."
               "One glance sufficed to show you this, you say. Maybe your eyes deceived you, Paul," said Miss Grace, half-laughing, but with a somewhat troubled expression upon her fair, sweet face; "some optical delusion, perhaps; some phantasm, the effect of which was heightened by the particolored trees, the brown moss, and the gray rock."
               "If so, the 'airy tongues that syllable men's names' must have uttered the word 'darling' with marvelous distinctness, and have given it the softest and most expressive intonation. I can not be mistaken, Grace; I was so near them that Mr. Buchanan's voice reached me too clearly to admit of a doubt either with regard to the term of endearment, or the tone in which it was breathed."
               Miss Grace shook her head with the smile still lingering upon her lip.
               "I am incredulous still, Paul. I am not going to believe that Mr. Buchanan has been wantonly trifling with Bessie, that he has seriously striven to win her affections merely to cast them idly away when won, or that Bessie has been untrue, either to herself or to her mother. Depend upon it, there is some mistake, some misunderstanding somewhere."
               "Would to God it were all a mistake!" exclaimed Mr. Warren, who was pacing the floor again; "but there can be none as to what I both saw and heard. Grace," he continued, pausing suddenly before her. "Grace! if there was one bright gem which seemed to you more precious than any thing else within the bounds of the green earth—the possession of which had been for years the acme of your hopes, the goal of your desires—if, glittering at first afar off, it had gradually drawn nearer and nearer, until your heart exulted in the thought that it was just within your reach—if then, just as you were stretching forth your hand to grasp the treasure, it glided suddenly away, and you saw it sparkling in the diadem of another, could you be mistaken?"
               "Paul!"
               "Nay, do not speak to me, Grace," he said; "good night!" and hastily kissing her cheek, he took up the night-lamp which was burning on the table, and left the room before she could detain him.
               To say that Miss Grace marveled at her own blindness, as she sat there beneath the soft light of the astral, with her head resting upon her hand, would be but a weak expression of the truth; so many little circumstances, that might have been true heart-revealers, had she looked at them from the right stand-point, flashed upon her memory.
               As she went up stairs, after the lapse of an hour, she heard her brother still traversing his room—with him the sure token of an unquiet mind. She tapped upon the door. He opened it immediately.
               "Let me come in and sit with you, Paul," she said, placing her hand upon his arm; "you are unhappy. You have never excluded me from your confidence, never refused me a share in your joys or your sorrows. Do not begin now!"
               "I will not, Grace," he replied, in his usual grave, yet earnest tone; "but I can not talk with you to-night. I have been fighting a great battle, and I thought I had won a good victory, but this evening has taught me that the strife has but commenced. But I am no sentimental boy, no whining lover, Grace. In solitude and silence let me struggle with this weakness, and conquer it. Good-night!"
               "Good-night," she repeated, as she turned away with a sigh. "God bless you, dear Paul!"
               The holidays came and went, and "Reuben! Reuben!" was the longing cry of Bessie's heart. Why did he not come? The two months of his absence had lengthened to three. What could detain him? Why did he not return to her? She did not expect him to write to her, for he could not without the risk of exposure. But she had contrived to mail a few hastily-written lines, telling him of the existing state of things, and begging him to come to her. Why did he not?
               One Sunday night Mrs. Allison and Margaret both went out to the evening service, leaving Bessie alone for the first time in many weeks. But there was little danger of her eloping that night, or indulging in any clandestine interviews. She had been confined to the sofa all day, and her white cheeks were a sufficient surety that she would not wander far.
               They had been gone but a little while, when Debby softly opened the door.
               "May I come in, Bessie?" she said. "You ain't asleep, be you? I hate to have you a layin' here all alone."
               "Yes, come in," said Bessie, extending her hand. "I am glad to see you, Debby."
               "You don't look as if you was over and above glad about nothin'," was the reply. "I am worried to death about you, child. What's the matter of you?"
               Bessie did not answer, but her lip quivered.
               "I don't say so much as some folks," continued Debby, "but I ain't blind no more'n the rest o' the world, and I can't help a seein' things. Sometimes I wish't I could keep from seein' what 't ain't no ways pleasant to see. But ain't there nothin't I can do for you? Head aches, don't it? Brown paper and vinegar's fust rate. Shan't I get some for you?"
               "No, thank you, Debby," said Bessie, smiling faintly. "My head does not ache very hard now."
               "Not half so hard as your heart does, eh, birdie? Now, Bessie, I don't want to make nor meddle with what don't consarn me. You know, well enough, that that ain't my natur'. And I don't want to be a pryin' into other folkses business, nuther. But I lived here a great while before you was born, and I took a mighty sight o' care of you when you was a baby. The very fust word't you said when you begun to talk, was Debby, and, somehow, you allus seemed wonderful nigh to me, amost as if you was my own child. And I do want to know what's the matter of you. 'T ain't cause I'm curus, Bessie, but cause I can't help lovin' on you. What makes your mother and Margaret act so to ye? I hain't said nothin' about it afore, not the fust word to any livin' soul. But I can't help seein' things, when they're right afore my face and eyes."
               Debby was sitting by the side of the sofa, and in her earnestness she had leaned forward until her rugged but kindly face was directly over Bessie's. The latter lifted both her arms and put them about the good woman's neck.
               "I know you love me, Debby," she said; "and I love you too."
               "Then won't you tell me what the trouble is, child? Do now, and may be I can do somethin' to help you."
               "No, you can't, Debby," said Bessie, wiping away the large tear that was slowly rolling down her cheek. "Mother wants me to tell her something that I can not tell her now. And she is displeased with me because I don't. I suppose she thinks I have done something that I ought not. But I haven't, Debby, I have done nothing wrong."
               "It's somethin' or nuther about that Mr. Buchanan, ain't it?" asked Debby. "I wish he had n't never come to Lanmere. There hain't been nothin' but trouble since that last time 'the was here, when he took you to ride. I hope to marcy that I shan't never set eyes on him agen."
               "Oh, don't say so, Debby," cried Bessie, clasping her arm, "don't say so. If he were only here, all would be right."
               "You ain't half so well off as you was afore you'd ever seen him," said Debby, dubiously. "You're breaking your heart about him this very minute. I tell ye I do wish he'd been in poppy afore he ever come to Lanmere."
               Bessie smiled sadly to think how greatly she was misunderstood.
               "You will know me better some time, Debby," she said. "At least, I hope that you will. But you must not think Mr. Buchanan is to blame, because he is not. And I am not breaking my heart for him, either; not in the way you suppose that I am. Oh, if he were only here!" she sighed, as she turned her face to the wall, and closed her eyes to keep back the tears.
               Debby looked at her with a troubled expression. She could make nothing of her, and was not a whit wiser than when she commenced the conversation. The silence remained unbroken for many minutes, and then a different topic was broached.
               "I don't like to be a playin' with edged tools," said Debby several months afterwards, referring to this very occasion, "not onless I know pretty well where the handles are. But there didn't seem to be no handle at all to that are business; so I thought I'd better talk about somethin' else."
               But after she went to bed that night, she lay awake a long time, thinking of what Bessie had said. And she thought of it the next day and the next.
               "If that young feller's comin' here agen is agoin' to make all things straight," she thought, "I wish to marcy he'd come quick. That child hain't got a speck o' color in her cheeks, no more'n there is in that wall. I declare, I'd write to him myself, if I knew how."
               "And why can't I?" she added, mentally, a minute after. "To be sure, I ain't much of a hand at it, but if he can read my pot hooks, and get the meanin' of 'em, the rest ain't o' no sort o' consequence. I'll do it, by jingo!" and with this determination she resumed her dishwashing, which had been momentarily suspended, with renewed alacrity.
               
               The next Sunday Debby was closeted all day. She had previously asked the loan of Bessie's inkstand, and a few sheets of paper, saying that she wanted to write to her brother Jonathan, and so indeed she did. But she laboriously penned another letter also, which we take the liberty of presenting to our readers, word for word, capitals and all. The orthography we have ventured to correct:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              LANMERE, january the tenth.
                              "DEAR YOUNG SIR.
                           
                           "I make Bold to write to You, sir, to Tell you that bessie is in Great Trouble. i Dont know what the Matter is, but she Told Me Last sunday night that if You Was here All would be Right. I don't know what she Meant, but most Likely You do. please To come here Just as soon as you get This. Don't Wait a minute Unless you want To have her Pine away and Die Before you get Here. she looks just Like a Ghost. do Come.
                           
                              "your Humble servant to Command,
                              "DEBORAH WILKINS.
                           
                        
                        
                           "P. s. I am the Woman that you Gave the note To.
                           "P. s. number Two. I Hope you wont Fail to come.
                           
                              "D. W."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Debby made four different copies of this letter, and at last, selecting the one which best pleased her, she folded it to the best of her ability, and directed it to 
                     "MISTER WALLIS BUCANUN, "City of New York and "State of the same name."
                  
               
               Having done this she stowed it away beneath a pile of clothing in one of her drawers, and went down stairs. After tea was over and the work "done up," she went out into the dark and silent street, sought the post-office, and dropped it into the letter-box. Fortunately, that was previous to the advent of pre-postage.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           She conjures up the fearful scene
                           Of yawning waves, where the ship between,
                           With striking keel and splintered mast
                           Is plunging hard and foundering fast.
                        
                     
                     ELIZA COOK.
                  
               
               THAT winter was noted for the length and frequency of its fearful storms, and for the multitude of its shipwrecks. The newspapers were filled, week after week, with tales of terror and disaster, of perils both by sea and land, of terrible loss of life, of terrible gales and all their attendant horrors. Bessie's cheeks grew whiter and whiter. Every whistle of the wind made her start and shiver, and her excited fancy conjured up all manner of fearful visions—visions in which Reuben was always the principal figure.
               One day Doctor Elliot came in, with the latest papers in his pocket.
               "Terrible news! terrible news!" said he, as he warmed his hands before the glowing grate. "I am fairly sickened with this accumulation of horrors, and am ready to declare that I will not look at another paper this winter."
               "More trouble upon the sea-board?" asked Mrs. Allison.
               "So they say," he replied, "another steamer gone down with all her passengers, and the crew—scarcely enough saved to tell the story."
               "What one?" asked Bessie, who was sitting opposite him, wrapped in her crimson double gown. It was her illness which had called him thither that morning.
               
               "I saw merely a telegraphic dispatch," he answered, "which did not give the name of the ship. But I have the latest news here in my pocket."
               So saying, he tore off one of the brown paper wrappers, and threw it upon the fire, where it blazed up and turned to ashes while he was glancing hastily over the inside columns.
               "My God!" he exclaimed, suddenly, with a horror-stricken face. "It is the Mariner! my nephew's ship. Poor fellow! it will break his heart, even if his life has been spared. On the night of the eighteenth," he continued, with quivering lips—"over three hundred passengers, and only twenty saved—with a part of the crew, and—yes—and the captain! Thank God for that!"
               The paper dropped from his nerveless hand, and as Mrs. Allison picked it up, he said,
               "That's right, madam. Look over the account, and give us the sum of the matter. Somehow I can't see, this morning. Poor fellow! poor fellow! The best heart in the world! This will almost kill him."
               "The books were lost," said Mrs. Allison, running her eye rapidly over the paragraphs, and just skimming them, "and it is impossible to give the names of the victims, or their exact number. Here is the list of those who were saved."
               How eagerly Bessie listened as Mrs. Allison read it! But the name she was longing to hear was not among them. She had wheeled her chair partly round, and was reclining in such a position that her face was invisible to the group before the fire. A sudden thought struck her.
               "Was she going out, or returning?" she asked, in a very low voice.
               "The ship? Let's see—Oh! she was returning, coming home—had been out of Liverpool just five days—not enough life-boats—disorderly crew—bad management," read Mrs. Allison.
               "Bad management!" exclaimed the doctor, warmly. "It is very easy when sitting quietly by one's own fireside to prate of bad management, and to say that this, that, or the other course would have been preferable to the one adopted. Let the croakers be thrown into the fiery furnace themselves, and then see how calmly they would think, and reflect, and balance probabilities. Ten to one that they would have rushed headlong to destruction, every mother's son of them."
               For half an hour Mrs. Allison and the doctor were so busily engaged in the discussion of this and kindred topics, that they did not perceive that Bessie had stolen softly from the room.
               "I have quite forgotten myself," said the doctor, at last. "I have other calls to make this morning. Now, Miss Bessie—why, the bird has flown," he continued, as, wheeling suddenly round, he noticed her absence. "Never mind, Mrs. Allison. Don't call her. It is not of the least consequence."
               "But I would rather have you see her, doctor," said Mrs. Allison. "She does not seem to be gaining at all."
               Dr. Elliot looked thoughtfully in the fire for full a minute, before he replied,
               "I do not profess to be able to cure mental diseases, my dear madam," he finally said, "and Bessie's, case is not exactly within my province. She is low-spirited and nervous—but why? That's the question. I can't do her any good unless I know what is the matter with her. You are the best physician in this instance, or ought to be. Win her confidence, my dear madam. Induce her to tell you if she has any particular cause of sorrow or uneasiness, and try to remove it. Persuade her to go out more; throw her into cheerful society, and rouse her up a little. That will do her more good than my medicine chest."
               
               Mrs. Allison tossed her head a little.
               "You are more of an old woman than I thought you to be, doctor," she said. "I did not expect such a sentimental speech from your lips. For my part, I have not much faith in 'mental diseases,' 'nervousness,' and all that sort of thing. People did not have so much trouble with their nerves when I was young. Now-a-days, if a person is cross, or lazy, or even positively wicked—if he murders his wife, or cuts his child's throat—it is not his fault, forsooth. Oh, no! He is to be petted and pitied rather than blamed. He is afflicted with some mental disease, or his nerves are in a terrible state. Pshaw! call things by their right names, doctor. If Bessie is only lazy and obstinate, say so, and I will find some means to bring her into a healthier state."
               "I did not mean to imply any thing of the kind, my dear madam," said the good doctor, alarmed at the effect of his words, and fearful lest they should do more harm than good. "Bessie is sick. There is not a particle of laziness about her, and she does not look as if she knew the meaning of the word obstinacy. But medicine will do her but little good. Good nursing, and, as I said before, cheerful society, together with pleasant occupation, something to keep her mind from brooding upon itself, is what she needs. She thinks too much, Mrs. Allison, and she does not go out as much as she ought. Let her have more fresh air. Send her on some errand down to my house every day; or up to the parsonage, or somewhere. But I need not tell you how to manage the thing, for you know all about it already. Mercy! if I was a woman, I'd contrive to keep that little head so full of pleasant thoughts that there shouldn't be room for one dismal intruder."
               So saying, he bowed himself out before Mrs. Allison had time to reply.
               "Thinks too much!" exclaimed Margaret, who had entered the room just after Bessie had left it. "That joke is rather too good, I must acknowledge. But it is provoking, after all. People talk as if Bessie was a saint or a martyr, or something of that sort, and I believe she puts on that woe-begone face of hers just for effect. She doesn't see hardly any one, that's one comfort. Thinks too much!"
               "Dr. Elliot always was full of his whims," said Mrs. Allison. "I wonder he did not recommend a voyage to Europe."
               "As in William Wentworth's case," rejoined Margaret, laughing. "Probably he was frightened by the loss of the 'Mariner,' and feared that such a course would be too 'venturesome.'"
               "Bessie does look miserably," said Mrs. Allison, glancing out of the window. "Perhaps you had better take her along when you go to the parsonage this afternoon."
               "I did not know that I was going. You have not said any thing about it before, mother."
               "Why, yes; to carry that bowl of apple-jelly to Miss Grace. Mr. Warren is very fond of it."
               "I am willing to go, of course," said Margaret, demurely casting down her eyes; "but I don't want to take Bessie with me, mother."
               "Why not?"
               "Oh, because I don't," was the reply. "I shan't have a chance to put a word in edgeways, if she goes along. Miss Grace seems to have taken a wonderful fancy to her lately. She said more to Bessie, the other evening, when she called here, than to you and me both."
               "You need not give yourself any uneasiness about that," said Mrs. Allison, significantly. "Mr. Warren scarcely spoke to her."
               "I have not said that I was uneasy," replied Margaret, bridling. "I am sure I don't care who Miss Grace talks to, or Mr. Warren either."
               "Margaret! How you talk! But it appears to me that Mr. Warren is not a frequent guest of ours, now-a-days," said Mrs. Allison, in a sudden fit of alarm lest, in some unguarded moment Margaret had given him cause of offense, thus endangering her own long-cherished plans. "I hope you are very discreet and prudent in your behavior."
               "I do not know that I am responsible for his not coming here any oftener than he does," replied Margaret.
               "He can come when he pleases for all me."
               "Margaret!" exclaimed Mrs. Allison, more alarmed than ever; "you surely have not refused Mr. Warren?"
               This idea, which was by no means the one she intended to convey, was too flattering to Margaret's vanity to be at once dispelled.
               "What if I have?" she asked.
               "If you have," said Mrs. Allison, speaking with unwonted vehemence, "you are a more foolish girl than I could ever have dreamed you to be. I never would have believed—"
               "Spare your reproaches, mother," said Margaret. "I have not said that I had rejected him, have I?"
               But Mrs. Allison left the room, more inclined to be offended with her eldest daughter then she had ever before been. Upon sober reflection she became more and more afraid that Margaret, in some freak of girlish arrogance or thoughtlessness, had offended Mr. Warren; and she determined that neither she nor Bessie should be the bearer of the apple-jelly. She would go to the parsonage herself that afternoon, and by her own suavity make amends for Margaret's imaginary coldness.
               She went, and spent an hour or two in very zealous efforts to play the agreeable, and to undo whatever mischief might have been done. She insisted so kindly and so earnestly that Mr. Warren and Miss Grace should spend the following evening at her hospitable mansion. Margaret's name was not once mentioned. Taking it for granted that matters were just as she supposed them to be, she had quite too much tact for that.
               "You have not taken tea with me for a long time," she said. "Now do come to-morrow evening, both of you. We shall really become jealous of these musty old books, Mr. Warren, if you persist in devoting so much of your time to them. You are quite too studious, and I insist upon your yielding to-morrow evening to me. It will be really a deed of charity, Miss Grace. Bessie seems to be quite feeble, and we are so closely confined with her. Sometimes I hardly know what to do. Dr. Elliot says she must have cheerful society and all that, but she is quite too unwell, I think, to go abroad for it. We must try to present such attractions at our own fireside as will draw our friends more frequently around it. Now do say that I may expect you to-morrow, Miss Grace, and you too, Mr. Warren. I shall be so disappointed if you do not."
               The desired permission was at length given, and Mrs. Allison returned home very well pleased with herself, and inwardly determining that for the future Margaret should be more circumspect.
               When Miss Grace and Mr. Warren entered Mrs. Allison's parlors the next evening, they were absolutely startled by the change in Bessie's appearance since they had last seen her. She had vainly pleaded with her mother for permission to remain in her own room. But no. Dr. Elliot had said that she needed society, and society she should have.
               "I do not feel well enough to dress, mother: indeed I do not," she urged. "Mr. Warren will not care to see me, or Miss Grace, either, if you and Margaret are there. Please do not make me go down."
               "You must," replied Mrs. Allison, sternly. "Do not say any more about it. If you can not dress without assistance (which I very much doubt, by the way), your sister will help you. Margaret!" she called, opening the door into the adjoining room, "come and dress Bessie's hair, and hook her frock for her."
               "You hurt my head, Margaret," said Bessie, as her sister drew the comb hurriedly and with but little care through the long silken tresses which were, for the time being, committed to her tender mercies. "It is very tender. I have had the headache so much lately. Take care!" she added, as a sudden twitch drew out a quantity of hair. "Please be careful, Margaret."
               "You should take better care of your hair," said that amiable young lady, "and not allow it to get in such a tangle, if you do not want to have it pulled."
               "It is so heavy, Margaret, and it tires me so to comb it. I tied it up as well as I could yesterday."
               The hair was at length dressed.
               "What frock are you going to wear?" asked Margaret, shortly.
               "I don't care; just which you think best."
               Margaret went to the closet, and took down a plain black silk.
               "Wear that," she said, as she tossed it on the bed. "You look as if you were in mourning for your sins, or something else."
               Bessie burst into tears. She felt that the black dress was indeed appropriate. She had lain awake all the previous night, alternating between hope and fear; at one moment feeling sure that Reuben must have returned to America long before the last unfortunate voyage of the "Mariner," but sadly wondering why he did not come to her; at the next, pierced to the heart by the terrible thought that he was lost to her forever, buried beneath the "deep, deep sea."
               But to return to the parlor, where, as we have said, were Miss Grace and Mr. Warren, greatly distressed and startled by the change that even a few days had wrought in the little, fragile figure which reclined upon the sofa. For a few moments both stood by her side, interchanging the usual commonplaces, and then Miss Grace glided away to the opposite side of the room, where Mrs. Allison and Margaret had established themselves.
               But Mr. Warren remained where he was, gazing with an indescribable mingling of pity and tenderness—a tenderness which was at that moment far more like that of a brother than a lover, upon Bessie's colorless cheek.
               "She is the bride of death," said a deep voice in his inmost soul. "She has little more to do with earthly loves or earthly hopes. The grave will be her bridal bed, and the shroud her marriage garment."
               Moved by an irresistible impulse, and with difficulty restraining his emotion, he took the delicate, transparent hand which lay upon the arm of the sofa, and pressed it to his lips. Bessie raised her eyes for an instant to his face, with a startled expression, while a burning blush suffused her neck and cheek and brow, forming a strange contrast to the statue-like pallor they had previously worn.
               But Mr. Warren did not mark the change, neither did he see the sudden tears that sprang to her eyes as they sought the floor again, and were vailed by their long brown lashes. He had turned away, and before his glance again fell upon the fair occupant of the sofa, the transient glow had faded.
               Never before had Mrs. Allison put forth such exertions for the entertainment of her guests; never had she been so affable and so conciliating. Yet the evening dragged heavily. Refreshments were brought in at an early hour—the most fragrant tea—for Miss Grace never tasted coffee—the most delicious coffee—for Mr. Warren rarely partook of tea, and their hostess forgot nothing that night. There was the richest of cream, the most delicate of cakes, the choicest of sweetmeats, the whitest and lightest of biscuits. But they did not break the spell which seemed to hang over the whole company. Mr. Warren was absent and preoccupied, although he evidently strove to be himself. Miss Grace was thoughtful, and less cheerful than her wont. Margaret looked—as she felt—cross and sulky, and could apparently find nothing to say. Bessie was glad that her weakness allowed her to remain quietly upon the sofa, shading her eyes with her hand.
               It was rather late, and Miss Grace was inwardly congratulating herself that the evening was nearly over, when a loud and impatient peal of the door-bell, caused them all to start a little and look about them.
               "It is a late hour for a call," said Mrs. Allison, as she straightened herself up, and smoothed down the folds of her dress; "who can it be?"
               Presently Debby's heavy footsteps were heard in the hall, as she strode along to answer the summons. Bessie had looked up at the sound of the bell, but had immediately resumed her former attitude—one which partially concealed her face from observation. The first sound of the stranger's voice, however, brought her to her feet; and she stood for a moment in an attitude of eager expectation, leaning forward, with clasped hands, and a beautiful smile irradiating her features. Miss Grace and Mr. Warren noticed this, and neither of them were greatly surprised when Debby threw open the parlor door, and, while her own honest face fairly beamed with joy, ushered in Mr. Wallace Buchanan.
               Bessie did not speak one word, but with a single bound she reached his side, and the next instant she was within his arms, weeping and sobbing like a frightened child. It was well that tears came to her relief, or this sudden shock—all joyful though it was—would have been quite too much for her overcharged heart and brain.
               "Bessie, my poor child!" he exclaimed, holding her still more closely to his heart, "my own darling, how you have altered! And for my sake," he whispered; "I can hardly forgive myself; but it is all over now. May God in Heaven bless you for your patience and your truth, my precious one, and give you joy for mourning."
               But Bessie wept more wildly than ever, and her trembling limbs could scarcely support her. Her brother, without heeding any one else in the room, bore her to the sofa, and placed her upon it, still retaining both her hands in his. It was not until this was done, and the intruder, turning, had acknowledged the presence of others by a graceful bow, that Mrs. Allison recovered herself sufficiently to speak.
               "Mr. Buchanan!" she exclaimed, advancing toward him with a resolute, and even defiant air, "this is shameless! it is audacious! In my house and in my very presence! By what right do you presume to address such words to my daughter? Certainly you have no authority from me for so doing."
               The young man hesitated for a moment. Then drawing Bessie to his side again, he answered,
               "By divine right, mother! By the authority of Heaven itself. A brother need not ask permission to seek or to return a sister's love."
               The bewildering surprise, the utter astonishment which this speech occasioned to all in the room, save two, could be expressed only by silence and mute gesticulations, Mrs. Allison drew back a step or two, holding up both her hands, while her face blanched to a ghastly whiteness, and her lips moved in a vain attempt to speak.
               "Who—what—who are you?" she at length gasped.
               "Reuben Allison!" was the reply.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Oft expectation fails, and most oft there
                           Where most it promises; and oft it hits
                           Where hope is coldest, and despair most hits.
                        
                     
                     ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL.
                  
               
               WORDS are inadequate to the description of the scene which followed. The pencil of a Hogarth could alone do it justice. Reuben's manly bearing, and quiet self-possession—Mrs. Allison's half deprecating, half incredulous air, her vain attempts to give utterance to the emotions which choked her, her appealing look which wandered from one to another of the circle, commencing with Mr. Warren and ending with Reuben—Bessie's subdued weeping, while her face was buried upon her brother's shoulder—Margaret's sullen mortification at what she regarded as Bessie's triumph—the glance of glad intelligence which passed between Miss Grace and Mr. Warren, the quick clasping of their hands, the inaudible whisper of thanksgiving, and the sudden uplifting of the shadow from the brow of the latter—the smothered sobs of good old Debby, who had lingered in the hall, and heard all that passed—all these we leave to the imagination of the reader.
               For full five minutes not a word was spoken.
               "Young man!" said Mrs. Allison, finally, with a tremendous effort to resume her wonted dignity. "Young man, are you indeed Reuben Allison?"
               "Reuben Allison, and your son, madam—mother," he added, the next instant, in a softer tone, impelled thereto, doubtless by the quick pressure of Bessie's hand.
               "How am I to know that you speak the truth?" she asked, haughtily.
               "You feel that it is the truth," he replied, advancing a step or two, and endeavoring to meet her eye, which wavered and sank beneath his own. "You know that I am your son. But if you need further proof than that of your own consciousness, I can give it. You have seen this before;" and he drew Bessie's little miniature from his pocket, and held it up before her.
               "That might have been stolen," he continued, presently. "But this could not;" and pushing back the hair from his forehead, he bowed his head, and displayed the scar which he had shown to Bessie.
               "Neither could this," he went on, as he bared his arm, and exhibited a peculiar mark which no mother could have forgotten.
               Mrs. Allison was perfectly convinced. She did not doubt that her son was before her. Indeed, now that she looked at him more narrowly, she saw his father's eyes, and smile, and waving hair. She thought it was a marvel that she had never noticed them before.
               But she did not say so. On the other hand, she remained perfectly silent—calm as to her outward bearing, but with a tumult raging within her breast, such as no pen can describe. Should she receive him as her son, restore him to the place he had vacated, or should she not?
               If Reuben had returned to his mother's roof, poor, friendless, ragged and forlorn, an abject suppliant, a homeless wanderer, who absolutely needed mercy and compassion, there is no doubt that she would have turned him coldly from her door, and have said to him, as she had in substance often said of him—"He who sows the storm must reap the whirlwind." But not so did he come back to her. He was a son to be proud of. That she could not deny, as she thought of the position he had acquired by his own unaided energy and talent, or at least, had acquired without any of her aid-gazed upon his noble face, lighted up by those dark, resplendent eyes, and felt the influence of his gentlemanly bearing. Maternal pride whispered, "Receive him kindly. He will be an honor to you, he will do you credit." On the other hand, a very different kind of pride put in a very different plea—"He rebelled against your authority, he willfully resigned your care and protection. Very probably he returns in a spirit of bravado, merely to show you that he needs no favors at your hands. Show him that you are equally independent."
               And still another voice said—"The sentiment of the whole community will be against you, if you refuse to acknowledge him. You were bitterly censured when he ran away. All that was then said will be repeated with tenfold vehemence, if you turn coldly from him now. You profess to be a follower of Him who taught lessons of forgiveness, not less by example than by precept. Your Christian character and your influence in the Church will suffer if you openly despise those teachings."
               These thoughts, and a multitude of others, chased each other like lightning through her brain, but she did not speak. Neither did Reuben. His mien was by no means defiant. Yet it said, simply and calmly, "I am here, not as a suppliant, not as a prodigal seeking charity and forgiveness, not as the boy who trembled beneath your frown; but as a man, as a son, willing, nay, anxious to be restored to his place in his mother's home and heart, to exchange mutual forgiveness—to bury the errors and the mistakes, the willfulness and the harshness of either party, in a deep grave, whence they shall know no resurrection."
               The eyes of all in the room were turning from the mother to the son, from the son to the mother. The silence, the suspense, was becoming intolerable. Bessie's color came and went, and her heart throbbed so violently that the pulsations were almost audible.
               At length Mr. Warren rose from his seat and approached them. Gently placing his hand upon Reuben's shoulder, he drew him a step or two nearer to his mother.
               "Bid your son welcome, Mrs. Allison," he said. "We are waiting to congratulate you, to rejoice with you that the dead is alive—the lost is found."
               At first he feared that his interference, if such it could be called, had been productive of more evil than good, for Mrs. Allison drew herself up, and the look of indecision became one of absolute sternness.
               "I am unaware, as yet," she answered, "whether it is a matter of congratulation or of condolence. This young man left my roof as a rebel. I would be glad to know how he returns."
               Mr. Warren glanced at Reuben.
               "Speak!" whispered Bessie; "speak to her, Reuben. But oh, for my sake, be careful what you say."
               The red blood rushed to his face, but by a strong effort he controlled himself.
               "I return," he said, "as a son who has long been motherless, as a brother who has long been sisterless, to reunite, if it be possible, the broken home-ties."
               "But how?" asked Mrs. Allison. "Are you willing to acknowledge your errors, and to beg my pardon?"
               "No," responded Reuben, with a firm compression of his lips.
               Bessie was panting like a frightened bird. Mr. Warren's face glowed, so keen was his appreciation of Reuben's position, and so earnest was his sympathy. Miss Grace was leaning eagerly forward, with parted lips. Even Margaret had come out of her corner, and was listening intently; and Debby, who had stolen into the room, and now stood by the door with her apron to her face, was giving vent to her emotion by such whispered exclamations as "Lord a massy," "Bless my soul," "Who 'd ha' thought it?"
               "I am not willing," continued Reuben, after a minute. "I am not willing to humble myself, as a man, for the errors of a boy. I am willing to acknowledge that I was often willful and wayward, and that, doubtless, you had frequently real cause for displeasure. But I am not willing to admit, even by implication, that I was the sole offender—that I was wholly wrong—that you were absolutely right. I came here to exchange forgiveness, mother, not to sue for it."
               Bessie fairly held her breath, so great was her consternation. She expected nothing else than that her mother's next words would be a peremptory command that Reuben should leave the house. That lady was, however, so completely astounded at this speech, that she could not speak, while, at the same time, its boldness and firmness commanded her respect.
               Reuben perceived the advantage he had gained, and went on.
               "I say this in no spirit of unkindness, mother, and with no desire or intention to treat you with disrespect. But I can not present myself before you in the attitude of a penitent suing for pardon. Memory and conscience both forbid it. 'Let the dead past bury its dead,' mother, and let our mutual injuries be forgotten."
               "Amen," said Mr. Warren, solemnly.
               At this moment Bessie sprang to her mother's side, and threw her arms about her neck.
               "Call him your son, dear mother," she murmured. "Oh, be reconciled to him, and we shall all be so blest."
               Mrs. Allison did not repulse her, neither did she return her caresses; yet her face showed some signs of relenting. Mr. Warren watched the two for a moment, and then moved softly across the room to the spot where Margaret was standing, with a confused, bewildered look upon her face, as if she were wondering what action would be expected of her, in the premises.
               "Margaret," he whispered, taking her hand, "will you not join your entreaties to those of your sister? Have you no word to utter in your brother's behalf?"
               She did not answer; and had it been any other hand than Mr. Warren's which was drawing her with such gentle violence toward her mother's chair, she would have resisted. As it was, and perceiving that Mr. Warren's sympathies were warmly enlisted upon Reuben's side, she concluded to be amiable, and suffered herself to be led to Mrs. Allison without the slightest opposition. But if she uttered a single syllable after she got there, it was in a voice quite inaudible to the rest of the company.
               Still, her mere position by Bessie's side was a tacit entreaty, and Mr. Warren felt that she had done all he could expect of her.
               "Shake hands with me, mother, will you not?" said Reuben, advancing with his own outstretched. "Mother! give me the kiss of peace!"
               "I forgive you, my son," was the reply, and Mrs. Allison gave him two fingers, and just touched her lips to his forehead. "I am willing to be at peace with you, and trust we shall have no more difficulty."
               It was with an effort that Mr. Warren refrained from smiling at this characteristic speech. She had granted forgiveness, even if it had not been sought; and had thus, in her own opinion, maintained her dignity. But Reuben said nothing. He knew his mother very well, and perhaps thought, as Mr. Warren had thought of Margaret, that it was all he could reasonably expect of her. So he returned her cold kiss, and then turning to Margaret, he saluted her also.
               
               Then, and not till then, did Mr. Warren approach, with extended hand.
               "I am glad," he said, with a smile, "to renew my acquaintance, not with Wallace Buchanan, but with Reuben Allison. You do not need to be told how warmly I congratulate you all. May this re-union be blessed, for time and for eternity."
               Reuben replied cordially, for Mr. Warren had been a favorite of his since their first acquaintance; and then Miss Grace came up with a few simple, but heartfelt words of greeting.
               "Debby!" exclaimed Reuben, as a smothered sob broke upon their ears. He was quickly at her side, clasping both her large, labor-stained hands.
               "Oh, Mister Reuben, Mister Reuben!" she cried, "I thank the good Lord that I have been spared to see this day! And jest to think that 't was you all the time, and nobody knowed it! Nobody but little Bessie here. I guess't she did, from the looks o' things. But I'm glad to see you, Mister Reuben. You know't I be. You and me was allus good frends, and I'm glad to see you to hum, where you'd ought ter be."
               Reuben smiled.
               "I am glad to be here, Debby, and glad to see you. We always were good friends, and I hope we always will be. I am much obliged to you for your letter, Debby."
               What wondering looks ran around the room.
               "Oh, mercy!" exclaimed Debby. "Then you got it, did you?"
               "Yes. But not until the day before yesterday. It was not put into my box, and did not reach me until I called for it, after it was advertised. You were very kind to write to me, Debby, and I shall not soon forget it."
               "Oh, mercy!" she repeated again. "But how you're growed! You're taller'n I be, I do declare. And you're glad to get back, be ye? I guess you hain't had nobody to make turnovers for you, sense you went off. Oh my! I don't know what I'm sayin', no more'n a fool," and clapping her apron to her eyes again, Debby retreated to the kitchen.
               We will not linger over the explanations, the questions and the answers, which engaged the attention of the group in Mrs. Allison's parlor until a very late hour. Reuben's business had detained him in England longer than he had anticipated, and he had returned home only two weeks previous to the reception of Debby's letter. Bessie's note he had never received, but he had only deferred his visit to Lanmere until the accomplishment of some important changes in the business relations of their firm, which was henceforth to be known as that of "Tracy and Allison," Mr. Burns having withdrawn.
               Mrs. Allison grew more and more pleased with her newly-found son—and with herself. Before they retired she had determined that she would give a dinner party on the next day but one, in honor of Reuben's return.
               "We must kill the fatted calf, you know," she remarked to Mr. Warren, "when the prodigal comes home."
               Not one word was said by Mrs. Allison or Margaret with regard to the misunderstanding which had occasioned Bessie so much suffering. But Reuben had read it all, with the help of Debby's letter, and a remark or two that were dropped by Aunt Hetty, whom he had seen in the early part of the evening. How sweet to Bessie were the thanks and praises that he poured into her willing ear! How dear were the caresses which he lavished upon her!
               "Will you defer your party until next week, mother?" asked Reuben, as he entered her room on the following day. "Mrs. Wentworth tells me that William will be at home then, and I would be glad to have them all here."
               
               Mrs. Allison hesitated. The proposition was not very agreeable, but she finally assented with tolerable grace.
               They were all there. Mrs. Wentworth, and Ellen, and William, Mr. Warren, and Miss Grace, Aunt Hetty, Dr. Elliot, and Mr. Ashley, besides several others with whom our readers are not acquainted—young ladies and gentlemen who had been Reuben's playmates in boyhood, and whose hearts he had won over again during the last summer, when he appeared among them, incognito. What a delightful mystery—almost as good as a play!
               But loveliest and fairest of them all was Bessie, still pale and languid from her recent illness, yet radiant with happiness—happiness so real and exquisite that she would fain have wept from its very excess.
               "Reuben makes such an ado over Bessie," said Margaret to her mother that night, "that it is fairly sickening. I wonder that he has not more discrimination."
               "Hush, Margaret!" said Mrs. Allison, holding up her finger warningly. "You must be careful what you say. It will be bad policy to offend your brother, and there is no surer way of doing it than through Bessie. I discovered that, before he had been in the house two days."
               Margaret shrugged her shoulders and pouted.
               "I don't care whether I offend him or not," she replied.
               "Yes, you do," said Mrs. Allison. "You want to stand side by side with Bessie in his good opinion. He will be taking her to New York with him, one of these days, or to England, perhaps; and you would not greatly enjoy being left behind, moping in the chimney corner, while your sister was traveling. I tell you Margaret, Reuben occupies a position which renders his good-will quite as important to us, as ours is to him. Mr. Ashley says they (the firm, I mean) are doing an immense business, and that it is very lucrative. Do try to please him. If you should ever marry, his wedding presents to you will be something worth having—if he likes you."
               This was a view of the question which Margaret had not yet taken. She began to think her new brother was, perhaps, a decided acquisition, and the next day she was busily engaged upon a pair of embroidered slippers, which were to be her parting gift to Reuben. He was to return to New York in a week or two.
               There is an old saying to the effect that troubles never come singly; and Mrs. Allison began to think that it might be applied to wonders also, when Mr. Warren, about a fortnight after Reuben's departure, requested permission to pay his addresses to her daughter Bessie.
               "To Bessie!" she exclaimed. "Do you mean Bessie, Mr. Warren?"
               "I surely do," he replied, with a half smile.
               "And you really mean to marry her?" she asked. Mr. Warren bowed.
               "I can speak very decidedly as to my wishes," he said. "My intentions are subject to her will and your own."
               "But, Mr. Warren! I am so surprised, so astonished!"
               "May I ask why?"
               "Why, I had thought—I had supposed—" said Mrs. Allison. Here she came to a dead stop, but presently added—"If it were Margaret, Mr. Warren, I should not hesitate in the least."
               "But, my dear madam! I can take quite as good care of Bessie as of Margaret."
               "But Bessie is so young, Mr. Warren."
               "She will grow older every day," he said, smiling.
               "And—and—" continued Mrs. Allison, "I do not think she is suited to you, Mr. Warren. I do not think she will make you happy."
               "Will you allow me to be the judge of that?" he asked, laying his hand upon her arm. "Am I to understand that you have no other objection?"
               "I have none," she replied, after a pause; "except that—"
               Mr. Warren waited a reasonable time for her to finish the sentence, but as she did not state the exception, he said, rising,
               "Can I see her this evening, Mrs. Allison? And will you oblige me by saying nothing to her concerning this interview?"
               Mrs. Allison bowed silently, and withdrew. But instead of seeking Bessie, she went directly to her own room to recover herself.
               It was twenty minutes before she entered the sitting-room, where Bessie and Margaret were sewing.
               "Bessie," said she, without looking at her, "Mr. Warren is in the parlor, and wishes to see you."
               "About my Sunday-school class, I suppose," said Bessie. "I told him the other day that I did not like the new question-books," and tossing her thimble into her work-basket, she tripped lightly from the room.
               Margaret rose to follow her.
               "I want to see Mr. Warren too," she said; "I have something to tell him."
               "Margaret!" exclaimed Mrs. Allison, changing color in spite of herself; "stay here."
               Margaret looked at her mother in surprise, not unmingled with consternation.
               "Why?" she asked. "What does Mr. Warren want of Bessie?"
               "He wants to—to marry her," was the reply.
               "Not to marry her!" Margaret almost screamed. "Not to marry Bessie?"
               "Yes," returned Mrs. Allison, "he wants to marry Bessie. Hush, Margaret! Don't say one word. Sit down and be quiet, I say. Now—"
               "But, mother," said Margaret, struggling to rise from the chair into which her mother had forced her—"But, mother, I won't—"
               "Stop!" cried Mrs. Allison; "stop and listen to me. Don't act like a fool or a crazy girl. I have something to say to you. Will you hear me?"
               "Yes," replied Margaret, sullenly.
               "Affairs are taking a different turn from that which we expected, Margaret. There is no use in denying that, and I am very sorry. But—"
               "I don't believe it," interrupted Margaret, with an angry toss of her head. "If you had been, you need not have consented, I'm sure."
               "Are you crazy, Margaret? How could I help consenting? I could not tell Mr. Warren that I would not let him marry Bessie because I wanted him to marry you. I gave him as broad a hint as I dared. But perhaps Bessie will not accept him."
               Margaret curled her lip scornfully.
               "Don't flatter yourself that she will refuse him," she said. "But what difference will it make, as far as you are concerned? You will be the minister's mother-in-law any way."
               "Margaret!" said Mrs. Allison, sadly wounded by the reproaches of her favorite child—"You are unkind—you are unjust. I am not to blame in this matter."
               "You are!" cried Margaret, bursting into passionate tears. "It is all your own fault. I never should have thought of marrying Mr. Warren, if it had not been for you. You have acted this long time as if it was a settled thing, and I believed it was. And the worst of it is, half a dozen of the girls know it, and I shall be the laughing-stock of the whole town."
               Leaving them to the settlement of their own difficulties, turn we to a pleasanter scene.
               
               "Have you nothing to say to me, Bessie?" asked Mr. Warren; "not one word?"
               What he has been saying to her may be inferred from the reply she made, as she bowed her head until her golden curls fell upon the hand which clasped her own.
               "I am not good enough to become your wife, Mr. Warren."
               "Not good enough? Do not mock me, Bessie."
               "Not fit to be a minister's wife, I mean, Mr. Warren," she said, glancing timidly at his face, but dropping her eyes again as they met his.
               Mr. Warren looked at her earnestly for an instant.
               "Why not?" he asked.
               "Because—because I am too wild and too—you know I am not a professor, Mr. Warren!"
               Mr. Warren took both her hands in his, as he replied, very gravely,
               "A professor of religion? But I hope, I trust, I believe that you are more than that—that you are a possessor of 'the mind that was in Christ Jesus.' Longer ago than you think, Bessie, I became aware that my earthly happiness was in your keeping—aware that no earthly love save yours could satisfy my heart. Since that time I have watched you closely, and your daily life has been such as to leave me no room for doubt that you have been taught of Him who was 'meek and lowly in heart,' of Him who said 'Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.' If you can love me, Bessie, if you will be my wife, we will help each other on in the way to heaven, in the glad hope of spending not only a lifetime, but an eternity together. Shall it be so, dearest?"
               She did not speak, but as Mr. Warren drew her to his heart, he felt that he was more than answered.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIX.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Gra.
                           I do beseech you, Even at this time I may be married too.
                        
                        
                           Bass.
                           With all my heart, so thou canst get a wife.
                        
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               "BESSIE! be you really a goin' to be married to Mr. Warren?" asked Debby, several days afterward.
               "Some time, perhaps," was the smiling answer.
               "It don't seem no ways possible," said Debby, turning suddenly round, and surveying Bessie from head to foot. "It don't seem like no time at all sence you wasn't more'n so high—a wee bit of a thing, trottin' round after me, a teasin' for bread and butter. And now you're a goin' to be married. Well!—"
               "Well—what?" asked Bessie, laughing.
               "Well, I'm mighty glad on 't, though I shall miss ye most awfully, Bessie. But Mr. Warren'll take good care of you, I know, and you'll be just like the apple of his eye. I'm glad you're a goin' to have him, but when's the weddin' a goin' to be?"
               "Oh, not before next fall," was the reply; "that will be soon enough, won't it?"
               "Yes, I guess it will. I ain't in no hurry to get rid of you, Bessie. What does Reuben say?"
               "He doesn't know any thing about it, yet; but he is coming up next week, and then I shall tell him."
               Reuben was somewhat disappointed, for he had said that he was going to have a house of his own—he had boarded long enough—and that Bessie should be his little housekeeper—and here was an end to all his fine plans.
               
               But there seemed to be some very strong attraction drawing him to Lanmere; and long before Bessie's bridal dress was talked of, she began to suspect that he had not yet given up the idea of housekeeping.
               "Is the house purchased yet, Reuben?" she asked, with a smile, about two months previous to the time appointed for her own marriage.
               "The house! what house?"
               "Why, yours, to be sure. I thought you were in a great hurry to go to housekeeping."
               "Ay! but I lost my housekeeper. What is a man to do in such a case?"
               "Find another," said Bessie.
               "I shall take your advice, my dear sister," he replied, kissing her cheek; "I have been trying to persuade Ellen to go to New York with me next fall."
               "And she has consented? Oh, I knew she would! I am so glad, Reuben, May God bless you both!"
               "But where are you going?" exclaimed Reuben, a moment after, as she caught up her bonnet.
               "To see Ellen."
               "Let me go with you. Here, Bessie, wait a minute."
               "No, I thank you, sir!" she said, as she ran off, laughing.
               In ten minutes her arms were about Ellen's neck, and she was both laughing and crying.
               "I am just as happy as I can be, Ellen," she said; "I have nothing more to ask. Now confess that you were jealous of me, last winter, before you found out who Reuben was? Ah! I have the best right to be jealous, dear, for you have stolen my brother's heart away from me."
               "Just as much as Mr. Warren has stolen yours from me," said Reuben, who entered at that moment, and took a hand of each; "you live in a glass house, Bessie, and throwing stones is dangerous pastime."
               Margaret thought her trials would never have an end, when she learned that Ellen Wentworth was to become her sister, and her dissatisfaction manifested itself very plainly. But it harmed no one but herself. Whatever Mrs. Allison may have thought and felt, she was perfectly well aware that opposition would be useless, and accordingly she said nothing.
               Reuben and Ellen tried to prevail upon Mrs. Wentworth to give up her home in Lanmere, and go to New York with them. But she preferred to retain her own little cottage—really her own now—a gift from her son-in-law on his wedding day.
               William graduated in due season; and although he was never able to dispense with his own cane, he was yet the staff and the prop of his mother's declining years. Very proud and very happy was she as she marked his upward course, until she saw him, while still in the prime of manhood, filling a professor's chair in one of our most noted universities. And, gentle reader, for aught we know, he fills it yet.
               What more need we add? We have no room to tell how nobly and beautifully Bessie's character ripened into perfect womanhood in the genial atmosphere of the pleasant home to which Mr. Warren removed her—a home of which she was at once the blessing and the pride. Suffice it to say that even Mrs. Allison was obliged to admit that the gem had received its appropriate setting.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            
            ROSE CLARK.
            BY FANNY FERN.
            I Vol., I 2 mo. Price $ 1.25.
            "A more beautiful character than Rose herself does not exist in English literature."—Newburyport Union.
            
            "It is Fanny Fern all over; but has more power, more feeling, more sympathy, more life, more spirit, more touching beauty, than any of her works."—Maysville Eagle.
            
            "So full of life, so sharp, so pointed, so pathetic and beautiful, so eloquent and truthful is her style, that if we can not call it genius, we do not know what to call it."—Sat. Eve. Union, Newburyport.
            
            "It will make the sunlight that falls around you brighter, and the fire that burns on your hearth warmer."—Ithaca Citizen.
            
            "Far surpasses all the previous efforts of this popular authoress."—N. Y. Mercantile Journal.
            
            "Taken as a whole, the book is a triumph—honorable alike to the head and heart that conceived it—honorable to the language in which it is written—honorable to the age that produced it, and we have yet to see the work of fiction by an American woman worthy to stand beside it."—Boston Daily Bee.
            
            "Fanny Fern writes for those whose hearts are still living—men and women who carry a petrifaction in their bosoms had better leave her writings alone—she does not seek to satisfy them."—Buffalo Express.
            
            "Entertaining, brilliant, witty, sarcastic, satirical, pathetic, and novel."—Phila. City Item.
            
            "It has the wit, the rapid transitions, the sententious wisdom, the wonderful power of condensation, the merciless sarcasm, and the outbursts of eloquence, which are to be found in all the productions of this writer."—McMakin's American Courier.
            
            "The story teems with the racy, the spicy, the pungent, and the agreeable."—Phila. Dollar Newspaper.
            
            "The best work of the gifted Fanny."—Windsor Journal.
            
            "It has the genius and dash of an independent spirit."—Cor. Boston Courier.
            
            "She is, by turns, witty, pathetic, scornful, and reverent—terrific in sarcasm, and warm, earnest, and outpouring in eulogy—rapid in movement, always full to overflowing with life and energy, and always going directly to the heart of her subject—and finally, every quality is intensified and sharpened in its effect by an amazing power of condensation, compressing often, in a paragraph or line, what common writers would spread over a dozen dreary pages."—Phila. Inquirer.
            
            "The story is one of unflagging interest from the opening chapter to the close."—N. Y. Atlas.
            
            "It is superior to any thing we have yet had from the gifted pen of Fanny Fern."—N. Y. Mirror.
            
            "It is certainly the best thing America's favorite authoress has yet done."—New York Entr' Acte.
            
            "It is ten times the superior of 'Ruth Hall,' in every respect; and great as was the sale of that book, we should not wonder if this were ten times greater."—Boston Sat. Evening Gazette.
            
            "It will be read with interest for its terseness of expression, and vivacity of description."—Harper's Magazine.
            
         
         
            
            THE RAG-PICKER;
            OR, BOUND AND FREE.
            I Vol., 12mo. 442 pp. Price $1.25.
            "This is a most stirring and pathetic story, illustrating the terrible power of human depravity on the one hand, and the importance of using the most efficient means to counteract it on the other. The author assures us that his statements are throughout nothing but sober verity; and that many of the persons whose character and experience are here described are still living in various parts of the United States. If this be really so (and we have no right to dispute the author's word), we can only say that they form the most remarkable group of personages which have ever come within our knowledge. It is a most intensely exciting book; but we do not perceive any thing that indicates ill-nature."—Boston Puritan Recorder.
            
            "The tale is one of modern times and events; the characters and personages alluded to are those who have lived in the present century, here and elsewhere, and the story is a most exciting one, well and powerfully written."—Boston Transcript.
            
            "The most original in its conception, the widest in its scope, the most interesting in its narrative, and the best in its execution. The characters are drawn from nature; we need no preface to tell us that, for they speak, think, and act to the life. The ups and downs of honest old Davy, the hero of the book, the true-hearted Rag-Picker, read us a homily on the fickleness of fortune, and furnish an example which the proudest aristocrat might do well to follow. We lay aside the volume with a sigh that there is no more of it."—N. Y. Saturday Evening Courier.
            
            "We have read this book, which claims to be a 'record of facts' by an eye and ear-witness, with thrilling interest at a single sitting."—Boston Liberator.
            
            "The book is well and powerfully written, and the story is a most exciting one."—Portland Transcript.
            
            "The narrative is rapid and spirited."—N. York Evening Post.
            
            "It is replete with incidents, its characters are natural and distinctly shown, and the interest of the narrative is well sustained."—Boston Atlas.
            
            "A good, a useful, and a meritorious book, and one peculiarly fitted for family reading."—N. Y. Sunday Times.
            
            "It is highly dramatic, and keeps the reader intensely interested to the end."—Portland Daily Argus.
            
            "It is written with spirit and power."—American Courier.
            
            "The narrative warmly enlists the sympathies of the reader, and to the end sustains the interest without flagging."—Chicago Christian Times.
            
            "It is beautifully written, and will be widely circulated, as it richly deserves."—Christian Chronicle, Phila.
            
            "A well-planned and highly interesting story."—Fred. Douglass's Paper.
            
            "The story is one of decided literary merit, and unexceptionable moral tone; and is replete with life lessons drawn from life scenes."—Boston Christian Freeman.
            
            "Well told, vivid and excellent in aim and tone."—Cor. Boston Transcript.
            
            "It is written with distinguished ability."—Boston Chronicle.
            
            "Is full of dramatic scenes of the most exciting kind."—New York Life Illustrated.
            
            "A very readable volume."—Dollar Newspaper.
            
            "It is full of vigor and dramatic power."—New Bedford Mercury.
            
            "The author wields a vigorous pen."—Glen Falls Republican.
            
            "No one will read it without a feeling of satisfaction."—Oswego Palladium.
            
            "It may be deemed the protest of an energetic mind against the expression and lack of sympathy of one class toward another."—Indianapolis Sentinel.
            
            "The story is, in truth, one of realities too sadly real, and, as such, impresses the reader with more profound sympathies for the unfortunate of our race."—Dayton Gazette.
            
            "A most readable and interesting book."—Poitsville Register.
            
         
         
            MR. HERBERT'S NEW WORK.
            WAGER OF BATTLE,
            A TALE OF SAXON SLAVERY IN SHERWOOD FOREST.
            BY HENRY W. HERBERT, ESQ.,
            Author of "Marmaduke Wyvil," "Henry VIII. and his Six Wives," etc., etc.
            I Vol., 12mo. Price $I.
            "The story transports us back to the English forests, before the Norman and Saxon races had melted into one, and brings up a succession of domestic and rural pictures that are bright with the freshness of that primeval time. The present work is even richer in the elements of popular interest than Mr. Herbert's previous fictitious compositions, and will deservedly increase his reputation as a brilliant and vigorous novelist."—New York Tribune.
            
            "'The Wager of Battle' is the best of Herbert's works."—N. Y. Sunday Dispatch.
            
            "The story is one of intense interest."—N. Y. Daily News.
            
            "The condition of the serf—the born thrall of that period, is accurately delineated, and the life, daily occupations, and language of the twelfth century placed vividly before the reader. There is no incident in the book that is tame and lifeless."—N. Y. Picayune.
            
            "Herbert is the best living historical novelist."—Cor. Boston Transcript.
            
            "It is a very beautiful tale—in its descriptive scenes, and in much of its coloring, reminding us more than once of Ivanhoe."—Boston Traveler.
            
            "In this work, Mr. Herbert has bent his acknowledged genius to the agreeable task of creating a succession of highly attractive and interesting scenes, which completely transfer us, for the time, to the wild age to which they relate."—Portland Eastern Argus.
            
            "This is an exceedingly able story, one which is sure to find favor with all classes of readers."—Phila. Sunday Dispatch.
            
            "We like a good historical novel, and we know of no living writer better qualified to write one than Henry W. Herbert. In the present volume he gives a fresh, bold picture of Saxon serfdom in England before yet the two races of Norman and Saxon were mingled into one. The delineation of outward habits, and the customs of the time, are admirably done, and the story is one that can not fail to interest all who read it."—Gospel Banner, Augusta.
            
            "A story of great interest. Written in an attractive style. Built upon a well-arranged plot. The best of Herbert's works."—Dayton (O.) Empire.
            
            "Herbert is a pleasing, busy, instructive, successful novelist historian."—Boston Christian Times.
            
            "It displays much dramatic skill and felicity of description, and accurately depicts the manners, customs, and institutions of the Saxons and the Normans, at the time of their fusion into the great English race."—N. Y. Chronicle.
            
            "Mr. Herbert's style is clear and fine, and the plot of his story well constructed."—State of Maine.
            
            "One of the best stories of the author."—Cor. Boston Traveler.
            
         
         
            
            CONE CUT CORNERS:
            The Experience of a Conservative Family in Fanatical Times; Including some Account of a Connecticut Village, the People who lived in it, and those who came there from the city.
            BY BENAULY.
            I Vol. 12mo., 456 pp. Price $1.25. Elegantly Illustrated.
            "This is one of the most spirited and amusing satires on village gossip and city snobism which has fallen in our way for many a day."—Boston Traveler.
            
            "It is written with the ease and energy of a practical hand."—N. Y. Independent.
            
            "It is written with spirit."—N. Y. Evening Post.
            
            "Its author wields a satirical and even caustic pen."—Boston Atlas.
            
            "A series of humorous and well-aimed thrusts at the follies of the times."—Phila. Sun. Mercury.
            
            "One of the best temperance stories ever written."—Bridgeport (Conn.) Standard.
            
            "One of the best pictures of village life we ever read."—Lancaster (Pa.) Examiner.
            
            "A regular Yankee story—a vein of humor running through the whole of it."—Bridgeport (Conn.) Farmer.
            
            "The writer, whoever he is, has original fun, humor, satire, and knowledge of human nature within him."—Boston Post.
            
            "The book is written with a strong and vital pen."—Boston Bee.
            
            "A very witty, very singular, and very well written novel."—Phila. Bulletin.
            
            "Would do credit to a Dickens or a Thackeray."—Boston Journal.
            
            "It is pervaded by a deep current of genuine wit and irony,"—Boston Puritan Recorder.
            
            "A readable and entertaining book."—Cin. Columbian.
            
            "Brimming full of genuine humor and satire."—Peekskill Eagle.
            
            "May be read with unabated interest and delight from beginning to end."—St. Louis Republican.
            
            "It has real humor, sound satire, and a good moral."—Nashua (N. H.) Oasis.
            
            "It is a capitally written book."—Waterville Mail.
            
            "It abounds in vigorous portraiture."—N. Y. Picayune.
            
            "It is a great book."—Springfield (O) Nonpareil.
            
            "The story is most admirably told."—Rock Island Republican.
            
            "A rich and racy book."—Woodstock (Vt.) Temperance Standard.
            
            "One of the most readable books of the day."—Portland Tanscript and Eclectic.
            
            "It furnishes a rich home entertainment."—Vt. Christian Messenger.
            
            "Written in a very racy style."—Alton (Ill.) Courier.
            
            "Abounds with sound, moral judgment, mixed with wit, humor, and satire."—Free American, North Adams.
            
            "It is remarkably unique, racy, humorous, pathetic, and has many graphic delineations and thrilling passages."—Boston Liberator.
            
            "A singularly witty, satirical, and well written American romance."—California Farmer.
            
            "Buy it, and read it by all means."—Athens (Pa.) Gazette.
            
            "We can heartily commend it as a capitally written story."—Milwaukie Sentinel.
            
            "A very natural, and extremely interesting story."—N. Y. Dispatch.
            
            "A pleasant, agreeable, readable book."—N. Y. Atlas.
            
            "It is a pleasant and deeply interesting volume."—Utica (N. Y.) Observer.
            
            "Enchants with a magic spell that ever tempts us onward."—Indianapolis Sentinel.
            
            "The style is sprightly and attractive."—Syracuse Chronicle.
            
            "Written in a style of charming sprightliness."—Springfield (Mass.) Republican.
            
         
         
            RUTH HALL:
            A Domestic Tale of the Present Time.
            BY FANNY FERN.
            I Vol. 12mo. pp. 400. Price $1.25.
            "Every chapter has the touch of genius in it."—Worcester Palladium.
            
            "It is a thrilling life sketch, with passages of great power and pathos."—Maysville Eagle.
            
            "Flashes of gayest humor alternate with bursts of deep pathos; so that the volume is relieved of all peril of monotony."—N. Y. Tribune.
            
            "This is a remarkable book—a book to create a sensation."—N. Y. Mirror.
            
            "Wherever the English language is read, Ruth Hall will be eagerly read."—New York Picayune.
            
            "No one will fail to read the book through who reads the first chapter."—N. Y. Sunday Courier.
            
            "Never did a tale abound in so many beautiful images."—Philadelphia Mercury.
            
            "In point of interest it exceeds any work of fiction we have read for years."—Eve. Journal.
            
            "Her words are red-hot, and her sentences seem to glow with the intensity of her feeling."—Rutland Co. Herald.
            
            "The most lively and sparkling favorite writer of the present time."—Burlington Gazette.
            
            "No one can fail to be interested in the narrative."—Hallowell Gazette.
            
            "It is a powerful; remarkable book."—Springfield Republican.
            
            "It is a book that will make a sobbing among mothers and widows."—Poughkeepsie Eagle.
            
            "Read it, you can not fail to be the better of it."—Pittsburg Family Journal.
            
            "Whoever takes it up will read it to the close without sleeping."—Plattsburg Republican.
            
            "The interest never flags."—Knick. Mag.
            
            "In 'Ruth Hall' there is pathos, humor, and satire."—N. Y. Life Illustrated.
            
            "We have read it through with unabated interest."—Ithaca Chronicle.
            
            "A real Heart Book, a household book."—Schoharie Democrat.
            
            "It sparkles with brilliants."—Hartford Christian Secretary.
            
            "A fresh racy volume."—Hartford Union.
            
            "Abounding with the keenest satire, and flashes of wit."—N. Y. Christian Ambassador.
            
            "Will rival the choicest productions of English genius."—Columbus (Geo.) Times.
            
            "Is the most intensely interesting book that we have ever read."—Ellensville Journal.
            
            "Every page glitters with some gem of intellect, some bright truth."—Tiffin (O.) Tribune.
            
            "No novel has created such a sensation."—N. O. Bulletin.
            
            "Genius is manifested in every page."—N. Y. Merchants' Ledger.
            
            "Thousands will read and re-read 'Ruth Hall' with deep and intense interest."—Doylestown Democrat.
            
            "It is the most condensed and thrillingly interesting book ever written."—Easton (Md.) Star.
            
            "It is instinct with the highest genius."—Philadelphia Sun.
            
            "Presents a vivid picture of the trials of literary life."—N. Y. True American.
            
            "Its scenes are drawn with power, pathos, and naturalness."—Buff. Eve. Post.
            
            "The book shows fact to be stranger than fiction."—Rome Excelsior.
            
            "A real sketch of human life, amid clouds, storm and sunshine."—Lawrence Sentinel.
            
            "All the characters are portraits—every body has seen their prototypes."—Waterville Journal.
            
            "Never have we read a book so true to nature."—Keystone City.
            
            "A live book; it is a tale of real life; the story is powerfully told."—Burlington Hawk Eye.
            
            "Abounds with gems."—Nashville Banner.
            
            "It is an evergreen, fresh as are all the emanations of mind, 'not born to die.'"—Lockport Democrat.
            
            "A book of extraordinary interest."—Monongahela Republican.
            
         
         
            
            LIFE OF HORACE GREELEY,
            Editor of the New York Tribune.
            BY J. PARTON.
            Elegantly Illustrated. I Vol. 12mo., 442 pp. Price $1.25.
            "The career of the great editor from humble boyhood to proud pre-eminence among the master-minds of the country, is truthfully and fascinatingly told."—Lafayette (Ind.) Journal.
            
            "It is an account of the life of a man of great energy of character, and of more than common variety of talent, who has taken a prominent part in the controversies and discussions of the day."—N. Y. Evening Post.
            
            "His life is a 'living epistle,' proclaiming that virtuous endeavors and unselfish toil, sooner or later, will meet a fit recompense."—N. Y. Christian Intelligencer.
            
            "The volume tells all about 'Horace,'—where he came from, his struggles, ambition, triumphs, etc. These are of great interest, and will be read with avidity."—Boston Daily News.
            
            "A most graphic and entertaining account of the life of Mr. Greeley. The most spicy and attractive biography of the day."—Boston Journal.
            
            "It throws open the door of the work-shop, and exhibits industry, and thrift, and intelligence at their hard day's work, earning their daily bread, and laying down the stepping stones to all that the world esteems and admires."—Utica Morning Herald.
            
            "There has been nothing like it since the life of Franklin: interesting throughout."—Montpelier Watchman.
            
            "An interesting book—full of good to all."—Bangor Mercury.
            
            "Full of interest and instruction."—Belvidere Intelligencer.
            
            "Is of absorbing interest, and contains much of pleasant humor, sparkling wit, and attractive anecdote."—Bangor Courier.
            
            "The life of a most extraordinary man."—Amherst Gazette.
            
            "Let the book be read in every home in America."—Hartford Republican.
            
            "We have read chapter after chapter of this work with unflagging interest."—Rochester Daily American.
            
            "It is a volume for earnest men and boys to read and study."—Springfield (Mass.) Republican.
            
            "A veritable biography of one of the most remarkable men of the time."—Concord Independent Democrat.
            
            "The biography of one of the bravest, noblest, clearest-headed, largest-hearted, and most thoroughly self-made men in America."—Bradford Inquirer.
            
            "Worthy of a place by the side of the life of Benjamin Franklin."—Hartford Religious Herald.
            
            "We commend it to the study of young men."—St. Louis (Mo.) Republican.
            
            "Written in a most graphic and entertaining style."—Christian Freeman.
            
            "It is a useful book—a book that can not be read without profit."—Trumpet & Magazine.
            
            "A faithful and full history of a man whom the public want to know all about."—Ellensville Journal.
            
            "A volume of rare interest."—Sandy Hill Herald.
            
            "As interesting as any novel—yet all true."—Painesville Democrat.
            
            "The life of Horace Greeley is one for the youth of America to study."—Phila. News.
            
            "Attractive, interesting and instructive."—Rome Excelsior.
            
            "A book which should be in every household—should be read and pondered by the young and old."—Phila. Merchant.
            
            "Abounds in racy anecdotes."—Fond-du-Lac Herald.
            
            "As an incentive to youth in poverty to be honest, faithful, and persevering, apart from its personal interest, it should go into the hands of the young of America generally."—Middletown Standard.
            
         
         
            OLIE;
            OR, THE OLD WEST ROOM.
            The Weary at Work and the Weary at Rest.
            BY L. M. M.
            I Vol. 12mo., 456 pp. Price $1.25.
            "A simple, charming story."—N. Y. Evening Mirror.
            
            "The author is master of that magic which transmutes fictitious characters into real personages."—Philadelphia Eve. Argus.
            
            "Full of adventure, and very interesting."—Boston Chronicle.
            
            "A narrative of rare interest."—N. Y. Commercial.
            
            "A very charming story, delicate in its sentiment, and calculated to refine as well as please."—Boston Traveler.
            
            "The last chapter, entitled 'The Weary at Rest,' is a specimen of not only real but sublime pathos."—Boston Puritan Recorder.
            
            "Charmingly written, and truthful in portraiture."—Dayton (O.) Gazette.
            
            "Calculated to make the reader wiser and better."—Boston Uncle Samuel.
            
            "Its delineations of domestic life are perfect; its language poetic and eloquent."—N. Y. Daybook.
            
            "The work abounds with beautiful passages."—Portland Inquirer.
            
            "A home book for every family; an interesting fireside companion."—Western New Yorker.
            
            "A work of extraordinary merit."—Dutchess Democrat.
            
            "We can commend it with a freedom we do not always feel at liberty to use."—N. York Evangelist.
            
            "Happily conceived, and well sketched."—Phila. Christian Observer.
            
            "All shall be the better for the reading of 'Olie.'"—American Index.
            
            "Abounds in incidents of a romantic character."—Plymouth Memorial.
            
            "Written purely and lovingly."—Hall's Journal of Health.
            
            "A rich tone of moral harmony runs all through its flower garden of sympathy and love."—Peekskill Eagle.
            
            "It is written in a beautiful style, and in a loving tender spirit."—New York Citizen.
            
            "Crowded with scenes of interest."—Plow, Loom, and Anvil.
            
            "From page to page you are lured along until the end is reached."—Masonic Review.
            
            "Sketched with a gentle and tender hand."—N. Y. Presbyterian.
            
            "Awakens our interest and our sympathies."—Life Illustrated.
            
            "A charming and chaste production."—N. Y. Sunday Times.
            
            "Skillfully narrated."—Boston Transcript.
            
            "Will find readers in every home."—U. S. Mining Journal.
            
            "A fine production."—Boonesboro' (Md.) Odd Fellow.
            
            "Attracts and delights the reader."—Zion's Advocate.
            
            "A well written and interesting book."—Utica Observer.
            
            "An entertaining book for the household."—Boston Liberator.
            
            "Can not fail to interest the reader."—N. Y. Tribune.
            
            "Well worthy of perusal."—Clinton Sat. Courant.
            
            "We cordially recommend it to our readers."—U. S. Review.
            
            "Those who were so delighted with 'The Lamplighter,' will be charmed with 'Olie.'"—Peterson's Magazine.
            
            "Greatly superior to the mass of domestic novels"—Delaware Gazette.
            
            "The dialogue is unaffected, the plot simple and natural, and there are dashes by turns of true pathos and sentiment."—N. Y. Saturday Courier.
            
         
         
            
            MUSICAL LITERATURE.
            
               MUSICAL LETTERS FROM ABROAD,
               Including Detailed Accounts of the Birmingham, Norwich, and Dusseldorf Music Festivals of 1852. By LOWELL MASON. 1 Vol., 12mo. 312 pp. Price $1.
               This volume can not but prove most acceptable to all lovers of music. Devoted almost entirely to musical subjects, it claims the attention of all those persons who feel an interest in musical matters. Its pages are devoted more particularly to church music, or to the service of song in religious worship; but all who entertain the desire of acquiring a deeper insight into the mysteries and subtle intricacies of the art of music, will derive benefit and entertainment from the perusal of its pages.
            
            
               DISSERTATION ON MUSICAL TASTE.
               By THOMAS HASTINGS. 1 Vol., 12mo. Price $1.
               In this volume the author aims not only to give his reader an Insight into the element of music, but endeavors to instruct his taste and judgment in the selection and performance of music of every character.
            
            
               THE HISTORY OF FORTY CHOIRS.
               By THOMAS HASTINGS, Author of "Dissertation on Musical Taste."
               This book contains the actual history of forty choirs. The leading object has been to afford useful instruction in such a manner as to avoid unpleasant personalities. While no individual will recognize his own likeness in the book, multitudes, it is supposed, may discover features not unworthy of their contemplation.
            
            
               A HISTORY OF THE OLD HUNDREDTH PSALM TUNE,
               With Specimens. By Rev. W. H. HAVERGAL, M. A., Rector of St. Nicholas and Honorary Canon, Worcester. With a Prefatory Note by the Right Rev. J. M. WAINWRIGHT, D. D., Bishop of New York. I Vol., 8vo. Cloth. Price 75 cents.
               "The history of such a composition," writes the late lamented Dr. Wainwright, "must be a matter of interest not only to the musician, but to all who have the slightest taste for musical art, and especially to those who take delight in the service of song in the house of the Lord."
            
         
      
   
