
    ----CITATION----
        Chesebro', Caroline, (1825-1873). The Foe in the Household .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6038 wright2-0512
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE FOE IN THE HOUSEHOLD.
            
            BY CAROLINE CHESEBRO', AUTHOR OF "PETER CARRADINE," "VICTORIA," "ISA," ETC.
            
               BOSTON:
               JAMES R. OSGOOD AND COMPANY, Late Ticknor & Fields, and Fields, Osgood, & Co.
            
            1871.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, BY JAMES R. OSGOOD & CO., in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
               UNIVERSITY PRESS: WELCH, BIGELOW, & CO., CAMBRIDGE.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               I. DEEP CALLING UNTO DEEP. 5
               
               II. WALKING BY SIGHT. 10
               
               III. "THE FEET OF THE AVENGING DEITIES ARE SHOD WITH WOOL." 12
               
               IV. A HOUSE DIVIDED AGAINST ITSELF. 18
               
               V. ONE MAN'S PERCEPTION OF A JUDGMENT. 22
               
               VI. GUILDERSLEEVE'S PLACE FOR REPENTANCE. 25
               
               VII. WILL THE DEACON SURRENDER? 29
               
               VIII. THE RANKLING THORN. 32
               
               IX. A WOMAN'S MOUNT OF JOY. 33
               
               X. AMONG THE BRETHREN. 38
               
               XI. JOHN EDGAR'S PUPIL. 41
               
               XII. EDNA ASPIRES TOWARD THE MARKET-PLACE. 43
               
               XIII. CONFIDENTIAL TALKS UNDER A VARIETY OF INCITEMENTS. 47
               
               XIV. PERPLEXITY. 53
               
               XV. MR. ELSDEN PATRONIZES ART. 55
               
               XVI. AT LAST! 56
               
               XVII. THE NEW BISHOP AND HIS BISHOPRIC. 60
               
               XVIII. THE LOVER RECEIVES HIS COMMISSION. 66
               
               XIX. A SPECIAL PROVIDENCE. 69
               
               XX. AN UNLOOKED-FOR CONSOLER. 72
               
               XXI. THE SWORD OVER THE GATE. 77
               
               XXII. A NEW ART PATRON ON THE STAGE. 81
               
               XXIII. A STRAIT BETWIXT TWO. 84
               
               XXIV. SYSTEM. 88
               
               XXV. "BUT EVERYTHING COMES BY TROUBLE." 92
               
               XXVI. EDNA A CAPITALIST. 94
               
               XXVII. MANNING THE LIFE-BOAT. 98
               
               XXVIII. JOHN WOULD DINE OUT AS A GENTLEMAN. 102
               
               XXIX. BOYD'S FAREWELL ADDRESS. 104
               
               XXX. THE BOOKS SHALL BE OPENED. 106
               
               XXXI. THE TRIUMPH OF "SYSTEM." 110
               
               XXXII. CROOKED PATHS MADE STRAIGHT. 111
               
               XXXIII. BEHOLD ALL THINGS ARE MADE NEW. 113
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The foe in the household
            
            THE FOE IN THE HOUSEHOLD.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               DEEP CALLING UNTO DEEP.
               EDWARD ROLFE drove his chestnut mare over the red shale road which connected Emerald with Swatara, late one afternoon in September, chatting with his companion as he drove, in a way to make her merry.
               She was a demure-looking young woman, but it was her dress that made her appear so. The daughter of the Mennonite bishop living in Swatara, she must, of course, conform to the customs of her people; but beneath the quaint apparel, the young man seated beside her in that light spring wagon, which was so well known on all the mountain roads, had discovered a rare intelligence, a rare sweetness, and a dignity of character, which commanded his reverence and love.
               He had been telling her one of the many "thrilling adventures" of which he was the hero,—for he had travelled far and wide on his business as a civil engineer, and had passed through a great variety of fortunes for so young a man,—when, as they approached the Emerald station, he checked his horse's pace, and said, "Delia, Father Trost is going on this train." And there he paused. She understood him, and did not answer. Then he sought to ascertain her thought another way; he leaned forward and looked at the lovely face concerning which he was often asking himself whether it would be more or less lovely when she had laid aside that uncouth bonnet, and donned the headgear worn by ladies of his rank and station among the world's people. She smiled when he caught her eye, but it was a serious, thoughtful, doubting smile. Had he the very purpose which his words now suggested, when he asked her if she would ride with him to the Emerald station that pleasant afternoon?
               "No," he said, as if in answer to her questioning thought. "I will not urge it, dear, though I do not know when so good an opportunity will offer again. We could keep our own secret," he added, immediately, "until we chose to make it known. O my darling, we are not going to trifle always, are we, with our blessed destiny?" That was the way he would not urge it.
               "You may drive on, Edward, and do as you think best. We shall do our duty by each other, at least."
               "We shall have done our highest duty surely then. It is all quite clear to me."
               "Well, perhaps; you ought to know! I do not see clearly. Is the train about to start?"
               "In a moment."
               An expression of grave and satisfied determination appeared on the young man's face as he answered this question, which was asked with such evident anxiety. He did not now consume time in seeking to make his companion see more clearly that the thing he had resolved upon was the thing to do. This was not a moment for expostulation or for argument, but for rapid driving. The train would leave Emerald in less than ten minutes. The chestnut mare understood her master's pleasure, and went on at a quick trot. They were making up the train at the station, and the locomotive was working backward and forward. Edward might have driven upon the track and the mare would not have flinched, but, instead, he drove into the shed back of the station, threw down the lines, helped Delia to alight, and said, "Go into the waiting-room, and I will find him," and hurried away, while she walked quietly into the house. The behavior of each was perfectly natural, as any person must have acknowledged who had seen them at this moment. Edward Rolfe was always in a hurry, Delia Rose never.
               When the engineer came into the waiting-room, she was there alone. He was accompanied by Father Trost, the burly Methodist, to whom Edward had already explained his wish.
               "I don't know about this," Trost was saying, as they crossed the platform.
               "Give us the benefit of the doubt, them," said Edward, gayly. "Here is your fee; you will find there are ten tens, but don't stop to count them now. We have really no time to lose. Bestow your blessing. Make us man and wife, according to the laws of God and the Commonwealth, and go your way rejoicing. The conductor will wait the train for you." Edward Rolfe thought he understood the man, and that the fee already in his hands would settle his doubts, even though he exclaimed when he saw who the young lady was in whose behalf his priestly service was requested.
               He was right about it, but the old man felt himself drawn powerfully in two different directions when he saw the girl. His friendship for Bishop Rose would have dissuaded him from performing the ceremony which would unite his daughter with the man whom, according to the regulations of her sect, it was unlawful for her to wed, unless she intended to abandon openly the faith of which her father was so noted an expounder. But then, again, his dislike of the sect against which he had been preaching violently the year past prompted him to perform the ceremony, which would prove, when discovered or declared, the most effective blow the Mennonites had ever received. And then, besides, there was the eleventh-hour providence of that hundred-dollar fee!
               "Father Trost," said Delia, "your last religious service in this region is not one you could have expected to perform."
               "I wish the train had started an hour ago," he answered; "but, young people, this is your business, not mine."
               "Exactly, sir. And we consider ourselves very fortunate that we knew when the train would start, and who would be on board," said Edward, cheerfully.
               "Come, then," said Father Trost, hurriedly; and of these two he made one.
               "You may pray for us on your journey," said Edward; but the old man, in spite of the hint, lifted his hands, and besought for bridegroom and bride the blessing which rested on Isaac and Rebecca. Then, turning to Delia, he asked, "Do you mean to let your father know what you have done, Miss Dely?"
               The bridegroom answered for her. "Not yet; just because Bishop Rose is the man he is, we could not speak to him. I do not mean to ask my wife to leave her people while her father lives."
               "Then, young man, you might better have let this business alone."
               "I will tell Adams that you are coming. Go that way," said Edward, cutting short the talk; and, pointing to the door which led into the bar-room, he himself passed out by that which opened directly on the piazza.
               Delia, left alone, sat down. The next moment, however, she arose again and hurried out. Rolfe was talking with the conductor, but when he saw her looking for him, and evidently a little troubled, he went to her at once.
               "Edward," she said, "should n't there be a—a certificate, or something? He is not coming back, you know. He should give us one."
               "Certainly, dear; how stupid I was! I'll speak to him." The train was in rapid motion when the engineer leaped from the car to the platform.
               "Don't ever one of you try a thing like that,—it's as much as your life is worth," said he, shaking his head at a group of urchins who had watched his feat with admiration. Then he hurried into the room where Delia was.
               "Too late!" he exclaimed. "I wish I had thought of it before. It was a careless trick. But he will send us one, Delia, as soon as he can. It will be all right. I have to speak to some of the men; can you wait here a few minutes? or have n't you some errand?"
               Delia now recollected that there were articles for domestic use which she had intended to purchase in Emerald; and, while Edward gave his orders and gained his information, she attended to these.
               The daylight seemed to have been arrested in its departure, so brightly the moon shone on their return. They did not linger by the way. Edward did not need to be reminded that the bishop would be looking for Delia, and he let the mare take her own swift return-pace.
               He was so satisfied with the day's success, that he hardly cared to talk about it. Once he broke out gayly: "There goes Delia Rolfe! Do you see her, young woman? The lady in the white bonnet with the white roses and green leaves. She wears a gay gown, and a white shawl embroidered with pretty flowers. She is going out of the grays by the gray road, gradually, I suppose. Ned Rolfe was always in luck."
               "The woman is so fine that I don't know her," said Delia. "Perhaps I have never seen her, though."
               "I really think you never have," said he. And then Delia silently reproached herself for the thrill of satisfaction his words had occasioned, knowing as she did that it was only by the Valley of Death that she could pass to the place where he beheld her so changed in exterior; for it had been decided by them, that, so long as her father lived, she should remain quietly among the Mennonites.
               The bishop was in his garden, listening to the crickets and the katydids, when Delia opened the gate and passed through, and stood there looking around her. Two hours ago only she went; and now she had come again, another and another's.
               At first, when Edward had talked of marriage, she had said, with a secret grief she had resolved he never should suspect, that it could never be. She had seen that it could be. And there stood the obstacle which had seemed insurmountable. A loving old man! For, after all, the church, she found, was her father! And even he had not been able to stand in Edward's way. How wonderful Edward's power was! Everybody felt it. It was said no other man could have pushed the Emerald road through; nothing could thwart him; O, least of all her foolish heart, least of all could it stand between herself and him! Bishop Rose was an old man; in the moonlight he looked very old. It seemed to his daughter that there were a dozen furrows in the place of one since she saw him last two hours ago. As if she had been considering anxiously the probabilities of his lengthened life,—which she had not, dear soul,—Delia felt condemned. She rejoiced when they went into the house, and she looked at him by steady candlelight to see that his blue eyes were bright with an almost youthful fire. Though her freedom could only come by his death, he must not die.
               Edward joined them at the tea-table which Delia had quickly spread. He was a frequent and always a welcome guest in the house of the bishop.
               "You missed an old friend by being away this afternoon, Delia," said her father, looking at Rolfe and smiling as he spoke. "Mr. Trost was here, or Father Trost as the people call him. I must return his compliment, for he called me bishop when he went away, and it was the first time that I remember hearing it from him. Maybe you saw him at the station, daughter?"
               "Yes, we did. You parted good friends then, father, if he called you bishop, for he always said that you were none."
               "Good friends, to be sure. O, Trost meant well, and he was a hard worker. I never saw his equal for holding on."
               "But I assure you, Bishop, he is no loss to Swatara. Nobody really loves him, and as for homage, which a preacher of the Gospel ought to be able to command—"
               "I don't know," interrupted the old man, pained evidently by this criticism of the preacher who had not only made himself conspicuous as his rival in the neighborhood, but had taken great pride and pleasure in so doing,—"I don't know. I think it may be the zeal of the Lord's house that is eating him up."
               "No, no," replied Edward, hastily, "it's your charity that is trying to cover up a multitude of sins. I know Trost; he is a hard, unforgiving, irascible, selfish man, and vain as a girl,—I beg your pardon, Miss Delia. For my part, I am heartily glad he has gone out to the Indians; but I doubt whether he will be able to win them over to his cause; he will be pretty sure to reveal anything but the beauty of holiness to them."
               The bishop's Christian kindness was almost offended by these words, and Delia felt not a little pained that the man who had been associated with herself and Edward in the most important transaction of their lives should now be spoken of by him with so little respect. It almost seemed as if this feeling might even extend to that solemn covenant into which they had entered; that he would regard it as lightly.
               Perhaps the bishop had felt relieved when he saw Trost going away from Swatara, but he said: "There was room for both of us here, and work enough to do. We will just keep in mind, daughter, that it was n't our people, but our doctrines, he fought so hard."
               Delia could not hear this without thinking with sudden pain: "Have n't I given him warrant for the worst thing he ever said against us, that we don't stand to our rules and keep our vows? He has gone off victorious, and I have put a sword in his hand!"
               "Whoever they send in his place, they cannot send a worse man for us," she said. "Whatever happens, nobody can complain of your stewardship, father."
               The old man smiled, and his daughter smiled with him; but this hour, which should have been the happiest of her life, was, in spite of her, the saddest. Rolfe perceived the truth, saw that she was saying to herself, "He trusts me and I have deceived him," and exerted himself so successfully for the general enlivenment, that her misgivings presently were quieted. Then she felt ashamed of her varying mood, for how contemptible it must have seemed to Edward!
               "The fact is," she said to herself, "I married him because I loved him more than anything else. Can't I stand by that? Do I love him less than I did three hours ago, when I saw that the most important of all things was to please him?" From the moment when she sharply reminded herself of these facts, Edward saw no further evidence of doubt on Delia's part. She would honor herself in the act she had performed. "I consented to this because I did not fear to let my heart lead me. We cannot be parted now, at least," she seemed to say; and he who had quietly watched her as she passed through these moods thought, "Thank Heaven you see how it is. But I knew I could trust to your reason."
               From this time forth he continued to come and go as he had come and gone during the past year, reckoning the house of the bishop as one of his homes, and paying his way with a liberal hand. His work on the main road was nearer to Swatara than the Emerald station, and a drive of three miles took him across the hills to his scene of action.
               While at work on his charts he completed many a drawing under the bishop's roof; and he brought his books there one by one, until the old man saw his shelves filled with a literature to which he would otherwise have had no access. These books he valued, and his daughter loved them. They gave to her the world from which Edward came, the world to which he would perhaps one day lead her. They enriched her thoughts, and were not without their witness in her heart. The intelligence, the energy, and skill of the engineer had long made him an interesting study to the bishop, as well as a valued friend. He was his main point of contact with the great world; through him he felt the vast tides coming in and going out, ebbing and flowing; and through him he learned of the great enterprises by which the resources, power, and humanity of nations were discovered to each other.
               So the weeks passed, the months. It was in the spring to which Delia had been looking forward with impatience,—for in the spring it would be easier for her to get away from home, and she had long promised herself a visit to a friend's house among the Ancaster hills,—in the spring that the man for whom she had endured anxieties as if they were joys, the gay, careless, happy fellow who secretly smiled at his good wife's occasional sighs as she thought of the poor Mennonite folk from whose company she, unsuspected, had separated herself, was taken out of the world as suddenly as by lightning's stroke.
               When news of the appalling accident reached the bishop's house, Delia was alone. A child, the son of one of the miners, passing by, and seeing her on the doorstep, stopped and told her what he had heard at the Emerald Station, from which he had just returned.
               "When was it?" she asked, as she might have asked the time of any ordinary event.
               "Day before yesterday."
               After a moment the boy, perceiving that no more questions would be asked, ran on.
               Delia went into the house. Hours passed. There she sat, waiting in silent, horrible uncertainty. The strength of her nature had never a better demonstration than in this. Her impulse was, of course, to leave the house, to fly to Emerald, and see and learn for herself what had happened. But among these strangers who, if the rumor had grown in its transit and Edward still lived, would gather around her husband, could she stand as a silent spectator? How could she account to them from her presence there? Say to him that she had come in her father's stead, Mr. Rolfe's dear friend? Would not everybody discover in an instant that Rolfe was too much to her, if he was not all? And why might she not speak and say that he was all? If Edward himself could not declare it, she had no evidence. They had looked and looked in vain for the letter which Father Trost had promised. No; the one thing for her to do was to remain where she was. And yet! if he lived, if he could speak; if he could by signs even, testify for her to that marriage before he passed out of the world, there might be time yet. But her father, but the church! Delia had not yet disposed of this afterthought when her father came home.
               He had heard of the accident just after he had set out on his pastoral visits, and at once changed his course, going over to Emerald, and so to Laurel Station, arriving there in time to witness the funeral services, and to see the little company of mourning men start with the body for Philadelphia, where Edward's surviving sister lived.
               The old man had come home to tell all this to his daughter, and to mourn with her.
               The death of this young engineer, this enterprising man of business, so shocked the venerable bishop, he so deeply mourned his loss, that merely through sympathy his daughter might have fallen into a state of dejection from which she would find it difficult to rally. It seemed, indeed, impossible for either of them to accept the fact of Edward's death. So cheerful was he, so alive, so strong, it was monstrous to associate with him thoughts of helplessness and decay. He still lived,—he must come again! The reading he had begun must be continued; the work he had planned must be finished. Alas! death had decreed not so! He would return for no more pleasant chat or kindly service. He was gone forever.
               Late in the spring Delia made a great effort to break away from the seemingly hopeless state of life into which she had fallen. She began to talk again about the projected visit to Ancaster, and the bishop, perceiving that she needed a change, urged her going. So they closed the house, and he went on his long summer circuit, preaching through all the region until the end of July, when he came back, and found that Delia had preceded him by a single day. A glance assured him that it had been to her a profitable journey. She had recovered something of her native cheerfulness, and seemed young again.
               Certain experiences had befallen both father and daughter during this separation which made them in subsequent intercourse more tenderly regardful of each other. The filial heart of Delia seemed to have been enlarged. She deported herself as though she had but her father to live for. There was no other for whose coming she might watch and wait; no light elastic step; only that heavy tread which was growing slower from the uncertainties of age.
               In his circuit Bishop Rose had met Friend Holcombe again, that godly young man who had, before he began his ministry, worked in the bishop's blacksmith's shop; for like Paul, the teachers among Mennonites labored to get their own living with their own hands. He had found Mr. Holcombe in a remote corner of his circuit, preaching and praying with an earnestness of which his earlier youth had given promise, and he had invited him to return to Swatara. Since the mines were becoming famous, the population increased fast, and he felt that there should be at this important point a younger man, a man of more activity and vigor, than himself. When he gave the invitation, he had every reason to hope that Mr. Holcombe would think well of it; for it had been clear to the father's eyes when Friend was with him, that he had but one great human-pointing desire, and that was to marry Delia.
               Mr. Holcombe came back to Swatara and entered upon the work designated by the bishop, with a singleness and sincerity of purpose which could not but insure marked success. Everything about the young preacher was attractive; by voice, manner, and teaching he won upon the people, and from Sunday to Sunday the benches of the meeting-house were filled with hearers, many of whom Father Trost had counted as members of his flock. Still he did not get on rapidly with Delia Rose. She knew what her father's hope was; but she was looking for a letter, which still did not come. The expectation of it never left her. It took from her life all peace. There was not a day passed but she thought: "Who will open that letter? Who will read it first, and come to tell him that the worst foe of the church is of his own household?"
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               WALKING BY SIGHT.
               ONE day Dr. Detwiler, who made as free as he pleased of every house in Swatara, coming in and going out a well-beloved physician, walked into the dairy, where she was busy with her cream-jars and her milk-pans and her thoughts, and said: "Delia Rose, there is one thing for which you will not find it easy to get forgiveness. The greatest sin you can be guilty of is keeping Friend Holcombe doubting whether you are ever going to relent. You can't prevent his hoping that you finally will."
               "What do you mean?" asked Delia, turning quietly toward the doctor, who had appealed to her in that abrupt way in behalf of another man. The doctor was an old friend to everybody, and freely used the privilege of speech, which he deemed he had earned in his summering and wintering with the country folk among the hills. He was in the country before Mr. Holcombe became a shining light, and people said that he might himself marry the bishop's daughter if he would only join the Mennonites. When anybody ventured to speak to him on the subject, he always answered that he was already married to Swatara for better or for worse.
               He had come now prepared to answer in full Delia's question.
               "You are giving I don't know how many years of unhappiness to the best man living, that's all. And I don't know as there's the woman on earth who has a right to do it."
               "If he is the best man living, he is a great deal too good for me," said Delia. "I am saving him from his misery, if he did but know it."
               "He is in no condition to appreciate your kindness, and never will be. It may be all true, but if you cannot make him see it, you had better stop trying. You are a sensible woman, Delia. I would n't have come here to say this, expressly, for the man I love with my heart and my understanding, if I could see anything or anybody in the way. But I find there is n't, and I warn you against interfering with the Lord's designs; for if ever He intended two persons sons for each other, He took thought of Delia Rose and Friend Holcombe."
               These words, spoken by such a man as the doctor, filled Delia with desperation. She saw her father's advocate, Mr. Holcombe's advocate, and the church's advocate in Detwiler, and gave him an answer that would have indicated despair to any one who could have suspected it: "If this should ever happen, you will have to take the consequences."
               He answered as cheerily as if now quite assured that he had gained his cause, "Thank you, I will."
               Then she asked: "Did Friend send you here to say this?"
               "Not he."
               And now, evidently, since she had gone so far as to ask this question, the doctor did not care whether his words displeased her or not. He had that high-handed way when he had determined that a certain course was desirable, and this marriage he decreed.
               "I had only a minute to stop, and have stayed five," said he, looking at his watch. "I must go, but you will be married before the month is out." He wanted to provoke a smile, or at least some sort of emotion. This tranquillity of hers, considering Holcombe's state, was past endurance. He went out quickly as he spoke, but in a moment came back again.
               "There are some persons who are born for higher ends than just to suit themselves," said he: "you are among these, Delia. I can see how well you would fill the place which is vacant, and always will be vacant unless you choose to fill it. Tell me, dear girl, is there anything in him which you positively dislike?"
               She was still pondering that question when the doctor turned away and left her. "Have n't you said he is the best man living? Why should I dislike him?"
               She was aware that the doctor was gone, but she said this aloud as if he were still within hearing.
               It was not for the first time the doctor had said that she was wronging herself and the patient love that waited her relenting. But his words had never obtained such a hearing as they had that afternoon. If this marriage was ordained,—and had she not, since the day Friend Holcombe came back to Swatara and renewed the suit of his youth, trembled before him as in the presence of destiny?
               "It would be better to die," she said, when the doctor had left her with that promise which had the sound of a threat in her ears. But she knew no messenger of death would come. Vain would have been her endeavor to make the doctor understand how she shrank from the duties which would make their demands upon her the moment she should step from her present place, and stand before the people as the young preacher's wife. No one beside herself would be even surprised that she should take upon herself the duties pertaining to such station. People, indeed, expected her to do it; it was the one desire of her father's heart that she should occupy the place held by her mother so honorably many and many a year. Surely her expectation of life was not so great that she could afford to disappoint all these, and, intrenched in her secret, live to the memory of the unclaimed, unclaiming dead!
               One day Detwiler dropped in with the news that Father Trost had been murdered by the Indians among whom he was laboring. He had come across men more savage than himself, and had got the worst of it.
               From that day there was a marked change in Delia; and yet the anxious expectation of her heart was not immediately dismissed. The cloud above her head did not at once break and disappear. There was still on the sky and in the air a presage of storm. That letter which Trost had promised might be wandering along the wide distance which stretched between the prairies and her home among the hills; and it was many a week yet, after the doctor had brought the intelligence which had given her almost a shock of joy, before she ceased to look with doubt on every mortal who approached her. But at last there came a day when this apprehension lost so much of its force that she listened to Friend Holcombe's suit, and for her father's sake, and for the sake of the church which sustained him in it, she encouraged it.
               
               Thus it was that the bishop, before his departure from earth, deemed himself among the blest. In the presence of his deacons and his lifelong friends, he gave his daughter to Friend Holcombe, as a king might give away a kingdom. "Take her," he said, to the young preacher; "so good a daughter as my girl has been to me will make you the truest and best of wives." And the old man's happy tears mingled with those of his daughter, who beheld among the wedding guests Edward and Edward's child. And it was not on the face of the dead that she saw the frown and the contempt.
               Indeed, so surrounded and so cheered as Delia was by all these approving faces and voices, it would have been strange if she had not supposed that the Lord also would smile on her endeavor to retrieve the past. Judgment had fallen upon her when she sought out happiness in her own way; she must shut her eyes on the past, and forget her lost joy; not for her the world's ways, the world's pride, the world's successes; it was here, in Swatara, among her father's people, that her duties lay. Trost was dead; and the child born far away among the Ancaster hills should never sorrow for the loss she had never known.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               "THE FEET OF THE AVENGING DEITIES ARE SHOD WITH WOOL."
               BUT sometimes on a midsummer afternoon a sound is heard which surprises everybody,—a warning of storm. The cloud must be looked for whence the warning issued. Everybody may not be glad to hear it. There is clover or grain cut, which the rain will not sweeten more thoroughly than the sun has done already; or a party of pleasure, about to set forth gay as youth, is subjected to the misery of a doubting mind.
               The voice that asked, "Is it Dely Rose?" at the gate of the preacher's house, was not unlike such thunder,—as startling, and perhaps not more welcome.
               No dweller in Swatara could have asked the question of the commanding figure that arose at the sound of the voice from behind the currant-bushes which lined the garden fence. Leaning over the gate the man had perceived the woman, and thereupon had spoken as kindly and as cheerily as it was possible for him to speak. His voice was remarkable, but kindliness and cheeriness were not among its natural tones.
               Mistress Holcombe appeared instantly to recognize it. She cast a quick glance around her,—where loomed the cloud? Astonishment for a moment seemed to have mastered every other emotion. Then, for hospitality was the law of Friend Holcombe's house, and the law of her life as well, she hastened from the garden path and stood on the gravel walk which led from the gate to the front door of the cottage.
               "Is this Father Trost?" she asked, and at the same time she smiled and extended one hand, while with the other she lifted the latch.
               He entered, saying: "I jest found you out, Miss Dely. Did ye know I had come back to Swatary to live?"
               "We heard that the Indians had dealt so unkindly by you that you never could come back," she answered.
               "I see, I see, everybody round here had me dead and buried," he said, with a note of exultation in his voice. He still lived!
               "When did you come?" asked Delia.
               "Last week, and been dreadful busy sence. I've bought a little place for my hum up there among you folks. Mary is with me,—you remember Mary?"
               "Little Mary, your granddaughter? O yes."
               "Anything but little Mary now; she's a woman grown. This does look nat'ral. It always was a purty place. But you've been making a good many changes too." He withdrew his eyes from Delia and looked around on the red cottage, the blue hills, the garden, the flowers.
               "O yes, changes everywhere," she answered, as if in her heart she had sighed and shuddered. "It is seventeen years since you went away, Father Trost; the bushes and vines have had time to grow. My hair was n't quite as gray when you went as it is now. You look as young as ever."
               Father Trost, who wore a red wig which was fringed by obtrusive locks of his own gray hair, fixed his cold blue eyes on the flatterer, and seemed pleased by what she had said.
               "You're young yourself yet, Miss Dely, to be talking about gray. It would take sharper eyes than mine are to see the signs of age about you. Your ma had n't a gray hair at sixty. But 'pears to me you favor t' other side o' the house. Well, well, he's gone too sence I went away. I was glad to hear you was living down here to the old place. You must have a good deal to tell me. Did you get the certificate?"
               "No!" exclaimed Delia, looking around quickly, and going nearer to the old man. "You did not send it. Did you, Father Trost?"
               "Did n't I, though! That's like saying I broke my word," he answered roughly, and looking indignant. "I writ my letter, and I sent it, ma'am."
               "It never came to us," said she, in the same low voice, which invited his to softer speech,—which expressed entreaty indeed, as well as apprehension.
               "I sent it, though. I sent it to Rolfe, from Arkansas."
               "How soon? Was it long,—weeks or months first, Father Trost?"
               "Well, I was nigh on to four months getting out there, and that was one of the things I attended to firstly after I got there."
               "It was too late!" If he had spoken truly, if he wrote the letter, and if they had received it, would all this have happened that had happened since? And did she now wish that all this had not happened, that the people did not know her as Friend Holcombe's wife, and that Rose did not call her "mother"?
               "Why was it too late?" said he.
               "Have you heard that I am the wife of the preacher, Friend Holcombe?" said she, quickly. "God took away the other,—your letter did not come,—you see how it was,—we said nothing about it. Only a little over four months and he was taken...."
               "You mean to say it is your and my secret, Miss Dely!"
               "Mine certainly," she said. "You remember it was to be made public when we pleased, but not while father lived." While Delia spoke she was steadily regarding the face of the old man. She did not like its expression. She had perhaps spoken unwisely and had angered him,—his violent temper she remembered of old,—but she had not spoken unawares; she had seen in these few moments since he had, as it were, risen out of the grave, that she must show him that he had nothing to do with her past.
               "Come in, let me show you my husband, Mr. Trost," she said, now speaking cheerfully and more kindly. "He happens to be at home to-day. He will remember your name, though he never saw you, perhaps. You left such a record behind you when you went away." While she spoke, Delia led the way to the house, and Father Trost followed her.
               "You keep to your old style of wearing-apparel, Miss Dely," he said, in a not unfriendly way.
               "We do not change our style, you know. We only grow old, and worse or better."
               "You have Scriptur' for your fashion, and there's a great economy in it," he said, with approval. But eyes that loved grace and beauty more would have looked with less admiration on the scant skirt, the short waist, the awkwardly shaped sleeves of the gown in which Mrs. Holcombe was attired.
               They made slow progress through the "first room" of the cottage. At almost every step the old man paused, and leaned upon his stick, and looked around him. He recognized the venerable Dutch clock which adorned one corner, and Delia called his attention to the carpet on the floor. It was one of her mother's weaving. There was a book-shelf too, between the front door and the window, which he remembered hung in the same place in her father's time; he noticed that it contained a greater number of books than of old. He could have told her the title of every volume it contained eighteen years ago. The room, as well as the book-shelf, had undergone a few slight changes. The whitewashed walls were covered with a light and pretty paper. There was a vase containing flowers on the table, and an easy-chair near by, which looked less than a hundred years old. A modern, it was evident, presided over the home of the ancients, but a modern who was not a cold-blooded innovator. The atmosphere of the place had undergone a change, but not such a change as less than eighteen years must have made in a home belonging to "world's people."
               They passed into the kitchen, and again there was halting, but only long enough for Father Trost to note the exceeding order and cleanliness of the domestic arrangements. He had an eye for these signs, and smiled in his way. It was there in the kitchen that Friend Holcombe and the old man met. Friend had come in from the back porch, drawn by the sound of a strange voice.
               "Ah," he said, after a single searching glance, "nobody need tell me who this is"; and he gave his hand to Father Trost with a cordiality which proved that in warmth of heart, at least, he was worthy to succeed to the headship of this house. "I was going to tell you, Delia, that I heard to-day Mr. Trost had come back to live among us. Your name is not strange to me, sir, though I have never before met you face to face. You were doing a good work in Swatara when I came here the first time, that was nigh twenty years ago."
               Anybody looking at Delia while her husband spoke could not have failed to see the satisfied pride with which she gazed at him.
               Well had the man been named Friend by his mother, who in her heart consecrated him from his birth to the service of his fellows as a friend. All the way up from childhood he had borne the name, conscious that he must redeem the promise it gave to all created beings.
               "So you're the man that's in Bishop Rose's place," said Father Trost. From his ministerial habit of addressing a multitude as if it were an individual, he seemed now to be speaking to Delia as much as to her husband, turning from the one to the other.
               He could nowhere have found a man and woman in finer physical harmony than these before him. They were models of manly and womanly beauty. A narrow, selfish, sordid life it was simply impossible that either of them should live; Nature had decreed otherwise. Friend Holcombe's character spoke out in his voice, frank, trustful, generous:—
               "Not in the bishop's place, though I preach in the church and have married his daughter. Come into the porch, sir, and rest in the bishop's chair. Rosa,—I will show you our daughter, his grandchild, Father Trost. She has his name, you see."
               A girl between eleven and twelve years of age came at this call across the porch and stood by her father. Her parentage was in her face. At her age Friend Holcombe's hair must have been of that golden brown; her forehead, which looked as if it had never been shadowed by a sorrow or marred by a passionate feeling, had the same beautiful shape as that of the man; her sweet blue eyes had an expression which had deepened in his to the great knowledge of a good man; her mouth bore out the testimony her eyes gave to the grace of a godly nature. She did not shrink back from the scrutiny which seemed harshly critical, rather than softly kind, but stepped forward and gave Father Trost her hand before he seemed to perceive that she was there as one of the family, and for something more than inspection.
               Just then another girl came from the garden in the rear of the house, a girl taller and older than Rosa, possibly by half a dozen years. Her hands were full of crimson cardinal-flowers, and she had evidently just returned from a long walk; her shoes were soiled, and her face heated; how many miles she had walked with her sun-bonnet under her arm, no one of that group would have ventured to say. She was dressed in the same fashion as the mistress and the daughter of the house, but the attire did not befit her as well as it did either of them; one could hardly help feeling that she was conscious of its awkward unbecomingness. Her dark hair was put up in a knot at the back, but there were short front locks which had escaped, and were always escaping this folding, and falling around her forehead and behind her ears in short, wild curls. The face had a graver expression than is often seen, or than is pleasant to see, on the countenance of youth. It was not a fair face, but brown and stained by the exposure to which it had been subjected; freckle and tan abounded. But it was a fine face, the pure gray eyes kept always alive a fire which an emotion or a thought could set aglow; a face capable of expressing nobly a wide range of feeling. Edward Rolfe would have loved it; he would have seen a promise of his mother's beauty in his daughter's countenance, and in her form.
               Father Trost was about to sit down, as he had been bidden, in the bishop's chair, when Mrs. Holcombe said, quite suddenly, "Edna, come here"; for the girl, seeing a stranger there, would have gone away again. She shook her head as if she would go in spite of the call; but Delia repeated, "Come, dear," in a way that few persons would have found themselves capable of disregarding. Edna obeyed.
               "Our daughter Edna, Father Trost," said Mistress Holcombe, taking her hand, and thus quietly drawing the reluctant form towards her.
               "What, another?" he said, and this time he extended his hand. Edna did not seem to see that he did so. She looked at the face before her and found it repulsive and ugly, there was not a feature or a line of it that she did not scan and judge. Old Annie Gell had talked with her from her childhood up as though she had been a woman grown, and she had sharp criticism at her tongue's end concerning the cold, hard eyes, the hanging cheeks, the red wig, the altogether tremendous person of the old man who affected her so disagreeably.
               She had caught those words "daughter" and "another," spoken, the one so kindly and the other with unsympathetic surprise, by Mrs. Holcombe and the stranger, and the bitter thing she thought she forthwith said: "As much a daughter as you are a friend, maybe. Because they were kind and took me in. Do you want Rosa, Mrs. Holcombe?"
               Delia looked distressed, perhaps because of the girl's rude speech, perhaps because the "daughter" declined to acknowledge relationship, persisting in that formality of speech which showed her constant recognition of the mere externality of their connection. But she answered, kindly, "No, dear, not just now. But do you want her?"
               "There are plenty of blueberries up the creek."
               "But you look so very tired, Edna."
               "I am not tired"; and Edna looked at Delia as a child can look at the woman whose soul she can nearly vex to death, knowing partly her power, and capable of repenting, but first of testing fairly the patience and the love to which she intends to yield. "I brought these flowers for you"; saying this she laid the scarlet bloom on Delia's lap.
               "You may go," said Delia, "but do not go far; perhaps our friend will stay to tea with us."
               "O, then we might catch some trout!" exclaimed Rosa, springing from her seat, and looking up at the shelf where the lines were kept.
               "That will take too long," said Edna, and her words decided the question. The girls went into the kitchen for pails, and did not return, but passed out by the front door.
               "I hope that dreadful thing will be gone when we come back," said Edna, as they closed the gate behind them.
               Rosa thought that he was very funny.
               "Funny! His face looks as if it was cut out of red leather, with holes for his eyes to stick through; and did you ever see such hands!"
               "Well, no matter, father seemed glad to see him," said Rosa, quickly, as if to reconcile Edna to the fact that the old man had come to her parents' house.
               "He don't look as though he had any business there."
               "But you know," said Rosa, "our house is n't like any other; we always take everybody in."
               "O yes, I know," returned Edna, as if it were very painful knowledge. At that Rosa's face turned a bright red, and she wished herself home again. She was always saying the wrong thing to Edna, and now she had reminded her of the fact which Edna had been so long forgetting, and would probably never forget, that she too was one of the wanderers overtaken by storm for whom the hospitality of the house had been proven.
               Meanwhile Father Trost, who never yet had seen a reason for forbearing to ask concerning anything that excited his curiosity, had turned to Friend Holcombe with, "Who is that girl? Adopted?"
               "She has quite a story. She was bequeathed to us less than a year ago," said Mr. Holcombe. "We are quite busy yet trying to make her feel at home here; it has proved a little difficult."
               "'Pears to me I've seen a face like hers, but I can't locate it. Was she born in your parish?"
               Delia looked at the questioner without answering. "Are you going to the root of the matter?" she thought. "Perhaps the sooner the better."
               Mr. Holcombe said: "I don't know as we ought to claim old Annie Gell, exactly, but she belonged to us as much as she did to anybody."
               "You don't mean to say this girl belonged to her!"
               "Not exactly. She is her sister's child, so she has been passed around. We are trying to make the poor child feel at home with us, and it will be strange if my wife does n't accomplish it. Do you find many changes in your parish, sir?"
               The question had hardly escaped Mr. Holcombe's lips when Deacon Ent appeared. He brought a message to the preacher, and seemed to be in haste, for he turned to go as soon as he had delivered it.
               "You might give me a lift up the mountain, if you are on your road back," said Father Trost.
               Delia had already concluded that her guest intended to remain all night, and she now invited him to do so; but he answered that he had Mary and the cow at home expecting him, and if the Deacon, who was his near neighbor, would take him part way, it would be a timely favor.
               The young man expressed his willingness to do so, but had evidently made an exact estimate of the amount of freight he was thus imposing on his favorite colt.
               And so, with expressions of mutual good-will, Trost and the Holcombes parted. The old man indulged in a bit of pleasantry at the last which cost Delia many a thoughtful moment after.
               "I shall be coming across you on your circuit," said he to her husband; "but there's room for fair play in the mountains. My trumpet is n't one to give forth an uncertain sound."
               "Good!" exclaimed Friend, with spirit. "I hope I shall prove that the same may be said of mine."
               But Delia, standing back and looking at the two men, thought: "The odds are against us. Those two don't fight with the same kind of weapons. He has n't grown any peaceabler than he was in father's time, and then he claimed that he fought with the sword of the Lord—only because there was war in his heart."
               The Deacon and the old man were neighbors, it is true, but they had no joint interest to discuss, and there was no matter of public importance before them which they felt disposed to talk about just now, so the ride along the mountain road toward the mines was enlivened by the exchange of few words. Ent was thinking of the church business which had taken him to the preacher's house, and Father Trost was absorbed by his thoughts on Delia Holcombe's secret. He began to see why it was that he had escaped with his life from savages, and was now again in Swatara. He had his testimony to give against the religious system which could foster liars and hypocrites. Thus the business of Delia's marriage shaped itself to his mind; her fair exterior, her position and influence in the region, stirred his indignation, fired him with holy resentment. If he had bound himself to regard her secret as her own, it was, nevertheless, his duty to warn the young folks of this neighborhood, and up and down the hills, and through the valley, against the system of which he suddenly remembered the young man by his side was a most zealous upholder.
               "I must stop at the furnace a moment for a chain I left there," said the Deacon, driving past the miners' cottages towards the mine.
               "Is Mr. Hooper anywhere about here yet, or is everything changed about the works?" asked Trost.
               "Hooper is gone; but don't you remember Mr. Elsden? He was down at Emerald for a good while, I believe, in the office there."
               "Elsden? Elsden? Yes, I remember that name."
               "That's his office yonder; he's the superintendent of Mr. Boyd's works now. Hooper did n't seem to be the man for the place; but Mr. Elsden is carrying all before him."
               "Well, you might let me out here, August, if you'll be sure to pick me up again. I should like to look at the new man."
               "I'll do that, sir," said August; and he dropped his burden at the superintendent's door.
               Father Trost, whose memory had lost nothing of its remarkably retentive power in all the long years of his life, had at once associated Mr. Elsden with Edward Rolfe, and there was one single question which he wished to ask him, and that was, "What had become of the engineer?" Delia had told him a single word concerning his fate; what had a man to say, a man like Elsden, who had been Rolfe's bosom friend, and was, most likely, in his councils?
               Mr. Elsden was so busy looking over the Pit Hole estimates that he would not have looked a very hearty welcome even at Christopher Boyd himself that afternoon; but when he understood that his visitor was old Father Trost, he pushed away his papers and was all courtesy. Trost was a man whom he had much wished to see, and had no expectation of seeing. The wish was not based on any prophetic instinct of friendship, as if "There was a man I should have loved to work with in this benighted region," nothing like this shone from the superintendent's eyes as he shook hands with the old itinerant and said he was right glad he had got back to Swatara; he had merely a curiosity of his own to ease. August Ent was outside, shouting to the minister, before Trost had gone much beyond his expression of wonder at the start things had taken in Swatara, and the surprising way the mines were looking up. When he heard Ent's voice, he said, "I was going to ask you about a young man who was very busy about these parts when I went away,—that was Rolfe, the engineer,—I don't see him around."
               "Poor fellow!" answered Mr. Elsden, walking towards the door and then turning back again, with his head bent a little, and a grave expression stealing over his face, "he was a great loss to this region."
               "Then he's gone?"
               "Gone? Killed, sir, in a minute,—crushed to death,—that must have been seventeen or eighteen years ago."
               "What a blow! he was the liveliest man about in those days."
               "Yes, sir, it took us a long time to get over it. It killed his sister. He had begun to build his house up here,—the one Mr. Boyd owns and lives in. I dare say he would have married and settled down among us, if he had n't been snatched away; the place seemed to have a great charm for him."
               "Is that boy waiting outside there for me?" said Father Trost, and he seemed to be slightly bewildered as he turned towards the door. "Well, I'll say good by t'ye, I'm beholden to him for a lift."
               "Come in again, when you are not in haste, sir," said Mr. Elsden, going to the door with Trost, who, having heard what he wanted to hear, seemed to forget that Mr. Elsden, the elegant gentleman who apparently had been cast away in Swatara by a freak of Providence, so unlikely was the post to be held by such a man, had any other business than to furnish him with the intelligence he happened to want. He went away though, promising that he would come again, to think during the remainder of the drive of that sole partnership of his in Delia Holcombe's secret.
               But when Mr. Elsden went back to his desk, instead of occupying himself at once with his estimates, he took from a black wallet which he carried in the breast pocket of his coat, a letter, the contents of which were known only to the writer and himself. It was the letter Father Trost had written agreeably to promise, and contained his certificate of the marriage ceremony performed by him at the Emerald Station. It had been received at that station not long after Edward's death, and had been tossed by careless hands, with other papers, into a box which Mr. Elsden had only recently been overhauling.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               A HOUSE DIVIDED AGAINST ITSELF.
               TOO gracious to utter in any ear her thoughts, Mrs. Holcombe felt as little gladness as her girls had expressed, when her prophetic eyes beheld all to which the neighborhood was exposed by reason of the return of Father Trost.
               But the people whom this son of Thunder had come to serve in the district of Swatara and the regions adjoining were entering, at the very time of her secret discomforture, on a season of rejoicing. The old warrior had already sounded his trumpet, and the faithful in Zion, rallying thereat, congratulated each other that they had once more a leader.
               "Give me a year to work in, and the dry bones shall live," he said, as he strode about among the mountains. "Give me a year to work in," he had said, whatever field he entered; and wherever he went promise and prophecy were made good. He did succeed in kindling a fire, and in compelling a rush. There was always inflammable material to be collected; no lack of combustibles; noise, smoke, and flame appeared as often as he entered fairly on his work. The assurance and the vanity of the man never experienced a rebuke or a rebuff which could seem to him equivalent to a failure. Men like Father Trost never fail.
               The year he asked for in Swatara was vouchsafed. He did not spare himself. He was everywhere announcing and denouncing, proscribing and prescribing; physically he seemed incapable of exhaustion. He had all the brain power and all the energy of will in his seventieth year of life that had marked his prime.
               The year of himself which he asked for Swatara passed, the prayer for another was renewed, with an expectation amounting almost to certainty that it would be granted. Friend Holcombe likewise had outlived the year, and Delia had outlived it.
               It was midsummer again, and Mr. Holcombe sat in the schoolroom, which was also the Mennonite meeting-house, one Saturday afternoon. He was in a thoughtful, prayerful mood; despondent, too. It was not release from labor that he craved, it was strength to labor more abundantly,—the strength of the right arm of the Almighty. But how weak he was; and how great was the need of his people. O for the power of Peter or of Paul, or for even the serpent's wisdom! He was distressed when he thought of the wide field in the midst of which he was placed, and of the neglect which portions of it must suffer because he was only mortal. God knew he did not ask for rest. God, his witness, knew it was not because Father Trost was working so mightily among the people that he was stirred to dissatisfaction: it was not an unholy ambition that fired him; but if— A knock at the door startled him.
               Rising from the bench which stood upon the platform, he walked down between the benches and opened the door.
               Sometimes an act like this had proved most kindly; the minister had received visitors on Saturdays in that room to whom the opening of the door proved a most difficult and painful proceeding. It was because he was aware of the fact, that he walked to the door and opened it.
               Deacon Ent awaited admission. Mr. Holcombe was greatly relieved when his eyes met those of the young man. Here was one who brought no vexed or difficult question for the preacher's solution. August walked in a broad, smooth path, and no stumbling-blocks were to be removed out of his way.
               Swatara folk knew that the preacher spent his Saturday afternoons in the schoolhouse, and that any man or woman, or any child, who had need of his counsel would find him there, and nowhere where truer sympathy; often the troubled mind or the tempted spirit sought him,—he was always waiting and expecting; but at this hour it was a relief to him, as I have said, to receive his friend and coadjutor, instead of a burdened soul. Even Dr. Detwiler, that tower of strength, would not have received so cordial a welcome as did this brother in the Lord.
               The tall and rugged form of Deacon Ent had been thirty years in attaining to its present height. He was a light-haired, blue-eyed model of integrity and vigor. A great stickler for church doctrine and law, having a gift of speech esteemed by some equal to that of the preacher himself, he was regarded by Mr. Holcombe as his right-hand man.
               He entered the room, evidently heated by his long walk, for he had come down on foot from the highlands.
               "God bless you! I'm glad to see you," said Mr. Holcombe; and they sat down and talked about the pleasant day, and the probabilities of wind and rain, and the prospects of all growing things. To pass from a survey of the season, and of the crops in general, to the detail of his own farming experiences, to in-door life, and from the interests of many to the interests of one, that one himself, was a process so natural and easy, that its difficulties proved to be not impediments to August.
               Here then this young man stood, as it were, at his own door, and he had but to lift the latch!
               His attention became fixed, and then in a moment riveted on the preacher, with that instinct which in a moment of peril lifts the brave spirit above the shrinking body's apprehensions, and sets it to a steady fronting of the danger.
               "Mr. Holcombe," said he, with his eyes on that good man, just because he would have preferred to look elsewhere at the moment, "did you ever think, sir, that some of our regulations are perhaps over-strict, and hard for human nature, and hinder, I might say prevent, our growing as a body?"
               Mr. Holcombe did not answer the deacon at once. It is no exaggeration to say that his soul was shaken within him by the question. Were his foes about to prove of his own household? The work of disintegration must have commenced among the foundation-stones since this strong pillar was shaken! He did not hasten to speak, but when he spoke, said:—
               "All laws are difficult to obey, if the spirit of obedience is wanting; and even then,"—this kindest of shepherds would manifest the utmost charity consistent with principle,—"even then it is not always easy for the will of the deceitful heart to yield to the persuasions of the mind."
               "It's the heart, sir, that Scripture speaks of mostly. Could n't the heart teach the mind something?" asked the young man, gravely contemplating, as it were, the question he had raised. "Ain't you preaching a good deal lately about the pride of intellect? Maybe it's that very thing sets us on to think our laws could n't be mended or improved. Ain't it possible that we could 'a' made some mistakes in our regulations? Is n't it setting up of ourselves and seeking to put down others by such severe laws in religion as we would not and could not submit to in state government?"
               "What has brought you here to say this?" asked Mr. Holcombe, turning abruptly upon the young man. "I should have expected such doubts of myself as soon. Is it your heart, August, which Scripture says is desperately wicked and deceitful above all things, that has brought you into this strait?"
               The suddenness of this question did not appear to disturb the young man as much as did his endeavor to agree with the minister. But he need not range heaven and earth for testimony that was lodged within himself!
               "It seems to me, sir, if I understand our laws, that they require too much. They do not make allowance enough for human nature. How are we ever to grow, if we bind ourselves hand and foot? Father Trost is carrying all before him. We get no converts."
               "We must grow from within, as we always have done. We do not expect a Pentecostal gathering-in."
               "But why should we shut our doors up in such a way that these new people, who are coming into the country all the time, cannot even hear our invitation?"
               
               "Do I preach with closed doors, and only to my own flock?" asked Mr. Holcombe, more and more surprised and displeased. "Is n't this house filled with people who come from everywhere?"
               "That is because they like the minister. We, the church, don't get any converts."
               The minister walked from the platform down into the aisle, across the room and back, before he answered; his arms were crossed on his breast, his head bent. When he looked up again as he came near the desk, there was a glow of feeling on his noble face. August had said, he must have known, a true thing when he attributed the preacher's successes to his personal popularity; but nothing like vanity was in the preacher's handling of that fact.
               "There have been a goodly number converted out of a bad condition into a better," he said. "But you know, though I cannot claim it as done under my teaching altogether, I could have said as much as this two years ago. The people are improving. And they began to improve long before this Methodist revival. Are you jealous of the direction that is taking? I am not. A great many influences are at work here beside the preacher's. I am happy to know that I enjoy the confidence of these miners so that they come to consult me in ways which show that they consider me a friend. What would you have me do, August? If I hold by the faith and doctrine of the Council, good. If I wish to renounce these, I suppose there is nothing to hinder. But, thank God! I do not wish to renounce these. The testimony of a lifetime is worth a great deal to me. We are rich in the testimony which would make any Christian peoples' annals rich."
               The voice of Mr. Holcombe was not the least efficient of the preacher's aids,—it was the voice of one accustomed to leadership, but of one who chose to lead by love. He had often controlled by his sympathy, when a hard show of power would have failed to command.
               It had probably not entered Deacon Ent's mind to defy, or even resist, his superior in office. He had come to confer with him, as he had long been in the habit of conferring on all matters of vital importance, whether of private or of public nature. The confidence which was expressed in this confession of doubt spoke well for Mr. Holcombe, and well for himself. But he was going further; the difficulty he had already experienced in speech did not so much embarrass him as to change his purpose; the thing he had come to say must be thoroughly spoken.
               "But, taking everything into consideration," he said, "would n't it be wiser if our people were allowed to marry among other Christian folk, if they had a leading that way? Other denominations have a large liberty in this particular, and they thrive on it. I have been looking into it, and I see it don't stand to reason that we should set up laws like this, and make them authority for all kinds of folks. It seems to me like saying that a man should n't look into his neighbor's fields, but just keep to his own. If he does that, he'll be likely to turn out a poor farmer."
               "Ent," said Mr. Holcombe: there he stopped. He dreaded to ask the question which he must ask; but after a second he looked the young man in the face, stepped nearer to him, and laid his hand on his shoulder; "what has happened to you?"
               "Nothing that I'm ashamed to own, sir"; and he returned the minister's serious, anxious, but most friendly gaze with one of perfect candor.
               "You must remember when you promised obedience to the laws of our society, as your father and your grandfather did before you, you did it in the belief that by keeping those laws you could best honor our Lord. You took office in the church knowing what you did. You have not allowed yourself to tamper with those laws?"
               "No, sir!"
               "Then you know the confession. There is no other liberty allowed to believers under the New Testament dispensation than to marry amongst the 'chosen generation, or the spiritual kindred of Christ, that is, to such and none others as are already previous to their marriage united to the church in heart and soul.' What other union with the church is worth anything, August? They must 'have received the same baptism, belong to the same church, be of the same faith and doctrines, and lead the same course of life.' You know why. A house divided against itself will fall. And if there is any meaning or force in our doctrines, any reason why we should ever have subscribed to them, it must still hold good when we have fallen into 'divers temptations.' Then is the time to test their worth. How often have you yourself said that the faith is worth little for which we are not willing to make sacrifices. Perhaps God will test your sincerity. He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me."
               "I know, sir,—I know,—I have considered all that," said the young man; "but it comes to this, sir, for the sake of a set of arbitrary laws must I give up what I hold dearest? That is the simple question. To give up a regulation of men is not to give up Christian truth."
               "August, what is it you hold so dear? What are consistency, influence?"
               "Reeds in the wind, sir."
               "My dear brother—"
               "I am trying to find out what my duty is," said Ent; and having gone thus far, Mr. Holcombe's wrath even had been of little moment to him. "Should our custom, which is n't of vital moment, and cannot be proved so, have a feather's weight in deciding a question which concerns the happiness of two persons? I ask you, sir, because I have answered myself. I might have acted on the answer I made, but I knew that my minister trusted me."
               "That is like yourself, August," exclaimed Mr. Holcombe, greatly relieved. "In your honesty is your safety. Wait, lad. Let the woman be taught of you and of God. Bring her into the fold, and thus sanctify your life. Be patient. This that you feel is the rashness and heat of youth. Ah, you think I know nothing of what you are passing through! Did I not wait for my wife seven years? I would have waited to this day, because I loved her, because she was the woman ordained for me, the only one, I honestly believe, whom I could love. You can wait. I waited without hope. Discipline yourself into the noblest manhood by self-control. You will never be happy if you leave us; you will injure yourself irreparably if you remain and deceive the brethren. Let your light so shine before men that they may glorify your Father in Heaven."
               The preacher's voice, though scarcely raised above a whisper, in this appeal would have commanded the attention of a much larger audience than could have gathered in the old meeting-house. August answered:—
               "I know how it is, sir! While you speak I hear you and know that you are right. But when I go away I shall hear her voice, not yours."
               "If she tempts you, remember what befell another who was tempted by a woman."
               "Shame!" exclaimed August, indignantly. "It is not a temptation! It is a man's feeling that he has a right to liberty. She is mine, I tell you."
               "Mine own familiar friend! my companion and guide!"
               Ent turned away; he could not witness the minister's emotion unmoved. "Friend Holcombe, do not make me wish for death," said he.
               "My brother, my son! you have passed through some sore trials, and I never found you too weak to bear them. It is the pleasure of the Lord that you should endure this test. We are coming on hard times. Some may fall away. Do not, do not fail those who have a right to expect of you the conduct of a strong Christian man!"
               "The Lord gave, and he will not take away," returned Ent. Hastily picking up his broad-brimmed straw hat, he folded his linen coat across his breast and pinned it together (nothing so ornamental as a button was allowed on the garments of this straitest of his sect); he seemed about to depart.
               "Stay!" exclaimed Mr. Holcombe. "Why may I not see you two together? She will surely not object to come and worship with you here; come to-morrow! I ask it as the pastor of the flock, and as your brother. I thank you for your confidence, August. I should have expected it; but let me have the woman's too. Tell her I deeply desire it."
               "You know her already," said August gust, putting on his hat and looking toward the door.
               "Who is she?"
               "Father Trost's daughter Mary."
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               ONE MAN'S PERCEPTION OF A JUDGMENT.
               AUGUST ENT had hardly pronounced this name when the door opened, and Dr. Detwiler entered. Such a man's coming must have broken up the conference between the deacon and his minister; but the conference was already at an end.
               The deacon turned to the minister, they shook hands, and he went away without speaking further, merely returning the salutation of the doctor by a nod. Friend Holcombe closed the door behind him with a sigh which his jaded look testified came from the heart.
               "I came for you in great haste, Friend," said the doctor, that hearty companion of the elements who now stood before him. Quick of speech, clear of sight, agile, not too slenderly built for service, even for a country doctor's rough campaigning among the mountains and through the valley land, in winter's storm and summer's heat, transformed beyond recognition since he came, a pale, work-worn student, to find his life in Swatara, see Dr. Detwiler. "Guildersleeve wants you right away," he continued. "Lightfoot is waiting out there. Take him and be off. I'll run down and tell your wife, and go home by rail. Give the old fellow room in your shed when you get back, unless I send for him. But probably I'll not send, for you have ten miles to go, and the road is n't the best. Can you go? You must! I shall tell Delia not to wait tea for you."
               "I must go? Of course, then, Guildersleeve wants me!"
               "It seems a great matter to get you up there, that's all," said the doctor. "Guildersleeve's days are numbered, but he will last longer than he thinks. He finds it rather harder to repent than he expected, I suppose. I dare say the time will seem long enough to him before you get there."
               While the doctor spoke, Mr. Holcombe walked about and closed the windows; when he went towards the door the doctor followed him. There, in the quiet shadows, Lightfoot grazed in peace, unmindful of all he had escaped by being a brute. His master called to him, and at the same time said: "I want you to keep a sharp eye all along the road; the country is perfection itself,—open your eyes wide,—be off!" When the minister was fairly started, Detwiler said: "I assured the old man that you would be up there in a couple of hours; he will count the minutes. I'll go tell Delia where you are."
               Then he went off quite as hurriedly as the deacon had gone. He was eager to leave the preacher alone with nature, to whose tender mercies he knew he might intrust this hard-working man.
               It seemed as if Lightfoot's hoofs had no sooner struck on the road which led up among the chestnuts and the pines, to the pine grove through which he must pass on his way to Guildersleeve's, than the shadows which had lain so heavily on the minister's face gave flickering tokens of intention to depart. There was a change in the flow of the mysterious currents, a lifting up, a loosing, a dispersion of what had threatened to descend and break in mist and rain. Serene grew his brow; the fine head was lifted, the erect figure expanded, the eyes of the man saw, or seemed to see, the clouds and their shadows rolling away. He could now discern. All that Nature could do for Friend Holcombe she had done, or was about to do.
               He surrendered himself by degrees to the charming influences at work beyond the troubled sphere of pastoral conscience, suffering though he was under the burden of human sorrows and human guilt when he set out on this errand; bearing the burden with him, as he went, it was now with hope that he continued his way. But, though this glory through which he passed, this ever-renewing glory, rebuked despair, while his eyes noted the broad sunbeams slanting through the woods and the mossy trunks of the old trees, and the wayside pools, he thought with a troubled spirit of August. And yet if it would please the Lord to bring the Methodist's daughter into the Mennonite fold, could it not be to His honor? might it not even be that thus the Head of the church would turn the old man from the speech of a persecutor, to engage in the milder teaching of one who loved the Gospel even better than he loved his sect? As this question crossed Friend Holcombe's mind, he looked upward and smiled; so impossible was it for him to understand a man like Trost, that he found it easy to believe that the thing he hoped was feasible. There was Saul of Tarsus to justify his longing!
               He remembered, too, just in this connection, that a very considerable degree of friendship had flourished during the past year between Mary Trost and the young girl who had found a home under his roof, and was to him almost as a daughter.
               Edna had indeed sought out Mary, who was nearer her own age than Rosa, and whose much wider experience of life had proved to her great attraction. Her travels and adventures in the far West, her life among the Indians, the actual dangers she had passed through, and the courage thus developed, made her, as a character, and as a teller of strange tales, a delightful companion to the girl, a portion of whose inheritance was a courageous love of adventure. Edna had the spirit that had taken her father to the ends of the earth before he was twenty-one.
               While Mr. Holcombe goes on his way, we may consider for a moment this friendship. With the growth of it no one interfered. As Delia perceived in its first stages, it was encouraged by Father Trost. She only tried to keep pace with Mary in sharing the confidences of her daughter. It was quite clear to her that no interference would have been tolerated by Edna, had she attempted any. If there was no roof under which the girl could meet her friend, there was the highway, with the heavens for a roof; all out-doors.
               In this vast apartment of nature the girls were promenading one fine afternoon; Mary had been telling adventures as usual, and Edna listening as usual, when the former said: "How long are you going to keep on asking and taking? It is time you gave a little to me. Don't you know it is more blessed to give than to receive?"
               "What will you have?" asked Edna. "I would like to give something to somebody."
               "I will have—let me see—your history."
               Father Trost had dropped a remark about Edna one day that led Mary to promise herself she would some time ask this, as she had now suddenly remembered.
               "There is precious little to tell," said Edna, "but such as I have I'll give. Do you remember Annie Gell? No; I dare say you never heard of her either. There was once a girl who lived away off with that old woman. The house was very small, but there was land enough around; they were swallowed up in land. The old woman had cultivated it some seasons without help of mankind. She was really a good farmer. Do you want to see the house, dear?"
               There Edna paused, and, with animated face turned towards her companion, waited an answer. Her ambition, it was evident, was to make an interesting story for that tale-teller to whom she was indebted for many a pleasant hour.
               "I want to see the house, and the old woman, and the girl,—everything. The clearer the better," said Mary. And Edna, well pleased, proceeded.
               "It was an old brown house, and had no up-stairs. There was a door in the middle, and a room on each side. The rooms were a keeping-room and a bedroom and a kitchen. It had a good dry cellar, dry enough to keep the milk in. The woman kept pigs and a cow. But when she wanted her land ploughed or broken in—do you know what I mean?"
               "O yes; cultivated, of course."
               "I thought you would say so; it is n't what I meant. She cut down a great many trees herself, and after that the land was ploughed, and she planted and sowed, and had good crops almost always. The house had a hop-vine growing over the door; it was a very large old vine, for it ran around both the windows and along the edge of the roof up nearly to the top of the chimney. She and the girl used to gather the hops,—there were bushels sometimes. They sold them and made quite a large sum of money. The windows had white curtains onto them. The door of the house was red. There was a well with a long pole near the house in the front yard. The house stood on the ground, only one step to go up. There was a little grove of pine-trees not far off, and the ground was covered with moss. Do you see the place?"
               "As plain as I ever saw anything. Go on."
               "The old woman had a hump on her poor back." Edna said this with a feeling, and a resolution, which could not have escaped notice. She mentioned the fact only that her picture might be more pointed in detail. "The hump came from a fall when she was young. I can't tell you what a worker she might have been if that had n't happened. She was a little woman, not near as tall as Mrs. Holcombe. Not as large as you are even, but so different! She wore poor clothes, and kept herself close in everything. She had gray hair, nearly white, and the dearest eyes you ever saw. Her face had a great many wrinkles. She did n't smile very often, but she never frowned on the girl. The girl was a child of her sister's; when the mother died she was taken up to the poor little farm, and the poor old aunty; and at first how dull it was! but she liked it better at last than any other place." The significance with which these last words were spoken made it impossible for Mary to doubt their meaning. But Edna did not dwell upon that point.
               "One day when she went into the room with some eggs she had found in the bushes,—for the old speckled hen they were sure had stolen her nest, and she had hunted everywhere for it, and found it at last,—she felt as if she could not stay there, could not breathe, the old aunty looked so awfully. She was sitting by the window, and when she saw the girl she said, 'so you found the nest?' That girl will never forget how the voice sounded. She had to go in then with her basket and show the eggs. 'Sit down,' said aunty, 'for I want to say something particular to you.' Whenever she spoke that way, the poor thing had to obey. So she went and sat down and said, 'What do you want?' Just then there came a bee in at the window, and that seemed to turn her thoughts off from what she had been seeing and hearing. 'We are going to have folks come,' she said; and then she leaned across old aunty, and let the prisoner out.
               "'I have been waiting to tell you what the doctor said, and something more'; that came next in a very low voice, but it did n't shake any. 'When was he here?' said the girl, and then she went nearer to the old woman and smoothed her gray hair, and held her hand;—there were only those two, and they loved each other.
               "'Not to-day,' said she. 'You remember it was last week, was n't it?' but it was only the day before! 'He told me,' she said, 'that there was n't any use doctoring me any more.' 'He did n't say that!' said the girl, firing up. 'Well, it was near like it. Why, child, I should owe him a pretty bill if he was like other folks. But he is n't, and I've settled with him; so don't worry about that. He has been kind to me, and he'll be kind to you."'
               Edna's eyes had been fixed steadily on her listener while she went on, but as if conscious of the pain that must be visible in them she now looked away, but still went on.
               "The girl said, 'Don't go on so, aunty; I don't know what has got into you. The doctor talked like a fool; I expect he would n't have said it if I had been by, I can tell you. The roads are getting bad, and it's out of his way to come here.' You may know how she felt by that; she would n't have said it about the doctor, if she had n't been so desperate. But when the old woman heard her going on that way, she smiled almost. 'You're mistook there,' said she. 'Michael Detwiler don't grudge going. You must n't talk so, my gal, or what'll they think of you down there?'
               "When the girl heard her say that, she guessed what she meant, and felt as if she must die. She could n't answer swer a word. 'You are going to have a new home, and the bestest home that gal ever had. You'll forget old aunty before those maple leaves turn red. I planted them about the door myself,' she said. Then it was dreadful to hear her say to that poor girl: 'I have n't done right things by you, child, I'm afeared. Not always. But now you'll have a better chance than you've ever had to do right by yourself. Be as good as you know how to be, and there is n't any one living can beat you at that, you dear child."'
               "O, that was sweet to hear," said Mary.
               "Yes; but once she said to me, 'You devil!' that was a great while ago. It comes back,—for perhaps I was one ..... Then I—the girl, I mean—asked her, 'Where am I going?—when am I going?'
               "'To-morrow, maybe,' said she. 'I may be called for any day now. There's nobody I dast leave you with on this earth but one, and she'll be to you more 'n I ever could be. And do it for your mother's sake. The Lord above forgive me where I have come short. You have had a hard, hard time up here with the old woman.' 'No, I have not,' the girl said. 'I have had as good a time as anybody ever had. There could n't be a better. Handed about so from one to the other! I am not going away. I am going to stay here, and keep you with me.' But the old woman said, 'We must go, both of us, you your way and I mine. You are young, and I am old. It ain't for either of us to say we will or we won't. It is going to be managed for us. Your things are all ready. You have only got to put 'em in the blue chest. You must wear your best frock down,' she said. 'You'll have all the money the old place will bring. I have told the doctor about it. Yes, things come about,' she said, 'if you just give 'em time enough. Neighbor Faulkner'll get my land that he's wanted for years. The old house'll go down. He won't fill the well up, I reckon. I dug that well myself. Never mind; but don't let 'em bury the old woman so deep you'll never be able to draw up a thought of her. And mind, everything is yourn."'
               The face of Edna had grown pale while she told this tale. "That is about all," she said, after a pause. "Nobody ever heard this story before. The minister's wife had said she would take the girl; and so when all was over, the doctor took her down to live in a house full of people, where she knew she could not suit anybody, though they were all kind to her; it was a long time before she could make up her mind to stay there; and now she feels all the time that something will happen to take her away. She did go back to the old place once; but it was terrible up there. The hop-vine had grown over the door, and there was only the crickets to make a noise. She had to get in at the window, for the door was fastened. She stayed there all night, but she could not sleep; and if they had n't come for her she would have gone away—somewhere, for the old house was n't home to her any longer..... So now she is staying on; but Mary has come, and she knows all about it; that makes a difference!"
               "But I should think," said Mary, "that the girl you have been telling about would almost worship the minister's wife."
               "I would not like to have her know all I think," Edna answered; and her answer expressed exactly her feeling,—a want of confidence in Mrs. Holcombe that would command her love.
               The next time Father Trost had anything to say about the Holcombes to Mary, she told him Edna's story, and said: "Poor child! she don't feel at home there; she is n't a bit like their people; but I don't see how she can help liking them. I'm sure there could n't kinder folks be found."
               "That's natur'," answered the old man; "she's cut on another bias."
               And this antagonism he considered a judgment.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               GUILDERSLEEVE'S PLACE OF REPENTANCE.
               THE business that took Mr. Holcombe to Guildersleeve's was pressing heaviest on his mind as he approached proached the farm-house that stood at some distance from the high road in a field unshadowed by a solitary tree,—as bare and bleak a place to dwell in as the old man's heart had made for himself and others on the earth.
               Old, hoary, and dying, he lay on his bed, past help of any power that he could command. He was waiting with the impatience of a man who had never known what patience was, moment after moment waiting for the arrival of Preacher Holcombe.
               For twenty years, ever since Bishop Rose's time, he had lived under ban, indifferent all these years to the sentence of his brethren, able to live without their friendship, and able also to maintain himself without dealings with them. His business relations had been with men of other denominations. But neither his pride, nor the defiance with which he had withstood those who had tried and excommunicated him for his contumacious behavior, nor the spirit of revenge with which he had in personal combat proved his rights, refusing, when the brethren called him before them, to recognize their privilege of interference, and to submit to their reproof,—nothing of all this had tempted him to unite himself with any other religious body. Father Trost had not yet abandoned his hope of numbering the old man among his converts; but it was sufficiently manifest that Guildersleeve was not the stuff of which a convert could be made. The stamp of the Mennonite was as deeply impressed upon him as his own nature. He could live independent of all outside shows, he said; and he had given some evidence that it was possible for a man to become a heathen, and go on from year to year prospering and laying up treasure on earth. Guildersleeve had long been accounted the richest farmer of the district, and so he was a sad stumbling-block in the way of those who had been trained in the belief that the face of Providence was against the ungodly. More than one young man, contemplating the career of Guildersleeve, had found himself doubting whether the old Scripture would admit of modern application,—"though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not go unpunished."
               After a brief illness, it had become evident to this stalwart offender that he could not possibly recover, and now he remembered death and judgment, and began to exhibit those dastardly symptoms which in a moment can destroy the significance of a lifetime. All his boasted strength, then, was but a weakness! If we could imagine a devil, and a devil repenting, what more pitiable object! He told the doctor he wanted to see Friend Holcombe. At that moment when he made the request all his defences fell. His will once shaken, no more rallying for him. There stood the discovered and ashamed spirit which had intrenched itself in solitude so long?
               He had given no hint to his family, when the doctor had gone, that he expected another guest that day. He only lay and waited, and to those outraged women, his mother and his wife, who had been tossed for sleepless days and nights on the rack of his agony, the state of his mind seemed auspicious.
               As to the preacher, though so long a resident in Swatara, known far and near for zeal, efficience, and the widest sympathy, it had never been his fortune to come into real contact with Guildersleeve.
               During her early widowhood, and indeed for years, until infirmity and broken-heartedness, and her son's direct interference prevented, Mrs. Guildersleeve had held a prominent place in the church. But she had lived too long, she deemed. Ten years ago, when the sad conviction fastened upon the white-haired woman, her son kissed her, and said they were cruel words to hear. But not for that she lingered; she seemed to be only waiting until her prayers should be answered.
               Standing by the window at nightfall, she saw Mr. Holcombe approach. He rode down the lane adjoining the field in which the house stood, dismounted, and tied his horse to the cedar post under the willow which she herself planted when a girl; and never was a truer saying, she was wont to think, than that with the willow the planter plants his sorrow.
               Friend Holcombe was not a stranger to old Dame Guildersleeve. Now and then at a neighbor's funeral, or in some chance way, she had met him, and in his face she had seen that which gave her confidence in him. Had the doctor sent him here? The face of her son was turned toward the wall; what should she do? Perhaps he slept. Then it would be best that he should waken and see for himself that Mr. Holcombe was there. She dared not even open the door until the preacher knocked, so in bondage was she yet, though the man who had shut her life up in this prison was lying on his bed as helpless as a worm.
               It was impossible that she should suspect the real fact that her son was listening all the while with an intentness which nothing could escape, first for the clatter of horse-hoofs on the stones in the lane, then for the sound of the gate swinging on its rusty hinges, then for approaching footsteps. "Come in," he said, in a way that startled the old woman, when the preacher knocked. His voice had n't sounded strong like that in many a day. Would he get up next, and order her out of the room? it would not have surprised her.
               What did Moses Guildersleeve want at this time of day? An assurance which no man could give. A witness no pleader could produce. He had wakened to find that upon him an eye was fixed which must have been always observing, that towards him an ear was bent which had heard all! He had been living in frightful intimacy with a power which could crush him in a moment!
               But now that Mr. Holcombe was here, it seemed as if he had nothing to say to him. Had it been possible for the minister to have mistaken the meaning of the doctor, he would have supposed that his presence was tolerated merely because the sick man had not force enough to resent it.
               He made no allusion to the message Detwiler had brought him, choosing that Guildersleeve should acknowledge that he had sent for him; so he inquired about his sickness, until at last, as if ashamed of his faltering, the old man said: "There's no use talking about what laid me here on this bed; one can't do the work of ten, and keep on that way more than seventy year. I'm a dead man, as I expect Detwiler told you."
               "He said you were a very sick man, Mr. Guildersleeve."
               A pause followed, broken by, "Did you walk up here?"
               "No; the doctor's Lightfoot brought me."
               "My Sorrel in the stable is worth a dozen of him. You may have him. I've made my will, but he's yours! Sorrel's for the preacher. Lightfoot's a pretty fair traveller, but not the creetur Detwiler thinks. What's the odds, though? Michael is a good fellow; I've always liked him since he first came into this country."
               Anything to delay the moment when something very different from this must be said. In three days he had not spoken as many words; but now, as if angry with himself, he broke out: "I did n't expect you would come! what do you want?"
               Mr. Holcombe could easily answer that question. "I want to hear from you, sir, the words I must wish to hear from any man in your case. I want to feel sure that when you quit this comfortable home, which you have made for yourself here, you will go to another, where you will find a love which will go beyond that of a mother."
               As if the steady, mild composure of the preacher's voice had soothed him, Guildersleeve answered with a softening voice, "Nothing could go beyond that."
               Low as the words were spoken, the old woman sitting by the fireplace heard them, and wistfully turned toward the bed; but he did not call her to him, and she sat still in her place.
               Then followed a long, pitiful talk between Fear, that was inquiring a safe path out of life, and Faith, who saw the way so bright and clear. Mr. Holcombe tried to show the old man that an angel of light was waiting to conduct him; but he saw only angry brethren, and the averted faces of old Ahern and Eby, who came into the country with him, and between whom and himself were ties of relationship which he had refused to recognize these many years. It was the preacher's duty to show the sinner that these men would be among the first to welcome him back to the church if he would but return, that they expected him! Guildersleeve doubted this; but there was August Ent, what did he say? Would August be glad to have him back, did he expect him? The minister could not doubt it; but might he bring August with him in the morning to see Mr. Guildersleeve? then he could hear with his own ears what the deacon would say. No! no! but there was n't a man, he owned, for whose good opinion he would give so much. If Ent actually expected him back, he 'd go, if he died trying. "Then," said Mr. Holcombe, "shall I tell the brethren to-morrow that it is your wish to return to them, and that, if God spares your life, you will?"
               The mother of Guildersleeve at that question knocked the ashes out of her pipe and laid it on the shelf, and waited her son's answer.
               "They would n't believe it."
               "Not if I tell them! O yes. They will believe it when I tell them you acknowledge that you sinned when you undertook to right yourself by going to law, and resorted to blows when you had been injured; and that if it were possible you would gladly give them all manner of evidence of your penitence."
               Guildersleeve hesitated, but nothing short of such confession, he perceived, could now bring him out of the place in which he found himself. At last he said:—
               "It's true. I was wrong. I have been paying for my pride interest and principal. I've had a dreadful hard row to hoe, Hulcum, I tell you."
               "Shall I say it to the brethren or to the congregation? It shall be as you wish." These words covered much ground, and they made an impression.
               "It would put them women of mine in everybody's mouth," said he.
               Low as he spoke, his mother heard.
               "Son, if it's me you mean, or Ruth, let it be afore them all. It's for the glory of God."
               "A debt," he muttered. "I've always paid my honest debts, Mr. Hulcum. A man's a mean cuss that won't pay his debts. But this seems to be outlawed."
               "It could not be if you lived forever. Come, brother, show your hope that your Maker has forgiven you, by asking the brethren to forgive you to-morrow. They will do it with joy."
               "They'll say the old bear's afeared at dying." The man's face took the hue of tawny marble as he spoke. It was the nearest approach to pallor that could be produced upon it.
               "Why should you not fear? You are going into the presence of a just God and holy. But if fear is reasonable, so is trust. You reproach yourself about these women; that gives me something to hope by, for they, I know, forgive you."
               "Mother, come here."
               She came at that call. She had borne the huge sinner on her bosom in his sleek infancy, on her heart in his rough manhood. He took her hand and held it fast in his. At last he pressed it to his lips, and his eyes, which had been closed, opened upon her.
               "Will He do like you?" he said.
               "What was you thinking when you married Ruth?"
               She did well to remind him of those, his best days. He thought of them and did not answer.
               "You believed He gave her to you."
               "Your memory is a first best one, mother!"
               "If I have n't forgotten that, He has n't. If you look to Him now, when you're low down and far gone, as you did when you was young and nothing could stand afore you, son! He is n't deaf. He does n't grow hard of hearing and old like us."
               "Ruth!" he shouted, in a voice that seemed to fill the house; then he turned to Mr. Holcombe, "Tell 'em all, children and all," he said; "they all know Guildersleeve; tell 'em it was devil's pride, and I've been a devil's angel to the church. The Methodists courted me for that; I knew it, but I never shook hands with 'em on 't. Ruthy—"
               While he spoke a woman had entered the room,—a gray-haired, bowed, and wrinkled woman, the kind of creature a man can crush to the dust and no one be the wiser for it, if the knowledge depends on her complaint. Patience and loyalty in their inferior forms were her virtues. She had never expected an hour like this. Out of the lips which had not opened in speech to her for years she never expected to hear words of self-reproach, or pleading for pardon. What words that this dying wretch could say would restore anything like joy to the cowed, frightened thing who had given herself to him to labor in his fields and in his house, to endure privations and hardships, to pass through experiences which the heart can indeed make light of when it discerns love in the eyes of him for whom it endures them!
               It seemed now as if she never could have left the corner into which she had crept, and approached near to his bed, had not Mr. Holcombe taken her hand, and in a gentle manner constrained her.
               "Don't look at me that way, Ruth," said her husband, in his turn apparently alarmed at her presence. "Are you afeared of me? You did n't look that way once. Mother remembers I was glad when you said you 'd have me..... You can tell by a woman's looks what the matter is. She looks as if I had scared her."
               "Don't talk so, Moses. The minister will think you've gone crazy."
               "What's that to me! You can think of it when I'm gone. It was n't right, Ruthy; 't was hellish in me to take what I found, and do what I did with it. But the folks are all going to know I owned it at last."
               Again he closed his eyes and drew his hand from hers, and again it sought his mother's; he held to the hope that between them at least no separation was possible. Her enduring mother love gave him all the hope he had for the dark future towards which he was hurrying.
               His wife sat down on the bedside, and waited there till he looked up again, then she smiled and kissed him. She too had forgiven all. Henceforth she would always believe that a sort of craziness had made her husband what he was so many years, but by the mercy of God he had come out of it before he died.
               Friend Holcombe might now depart. But would he come again to-morrow? Yes, surely. After he had spoken with the congregation and the brethren? Yes.
               He had not passed from the lane to the highway, before he began to think of the argument to faithfulness which he should have to lay before August in this respect and confidence which his conduct had inspired in a man like Guildersleeve. And while he thought of this, lo on the highway August stood before him!
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               WILL THE DEACON SURRENDER?
               WHEN Deacon Ent knocked that evening at the door of Father Trost's house, he was in no enviable state of mind.
               An hour before, when he met Mr. Holcombe on the road, the minister had stopped to acquaint him with Guildersleeve's words and wish concerning him. The words made an impression. The old man's testimony to the deacon's influence, his Christian influence, his influence as a Mennonite, had an importance which, surely, the future of the living man, as well as his past, must justify.
               Instead of proceeding directly to the house of his neighbor, as he had purposed to do when startled by the sudden and unwelcome appearance of Mr. Holcombe, August went back to his own house and walked about in the moonlight, wondering whether he had been hindered from going over to Mr. Trost's house for an hour only that he might meet the minister and receive that message, and be told again that he had the reputation of a saint to sustain before the people. Ought he not then to keep out of the way of temptation? But temptation! That word aroused his indignation, and he arose and looked at the bright moon, and the paler stars, as if he would defy the very heavens to show a better girl than Mary Trost. And she loved him!
               If he would only compel himself to look steadily back on what had happened, he could not help seeing that there was a time when he held all this business in his own hands; and whether he would continue to do so was a matter of choice with him. He must remember that the first time he said anything to Mary that would have made Mr. Holcombe open his eyes with wonder could he have overheard it, she had not understood him. He might have retreated then, and no soul would have been the wiser, but, on the contrary, he had gone far out of his usual course and practice, in the hope of kindling in her heart a little spark of interest in himself.
               At last love had surprised her, and involuntarily she had confessed it. All this was his own work. And he had promised Mary that he would come to her this evening, knowing that she was alone, for her father was away on his circuit.
               But since making that engagement, he had talked with the preacher in the meeting-house, and the preacher had now, as it were, risen out of the ground to talk to him.
               The question simply was, whether he would go over to Trost's or not. He went.
               He was able to meet and to bear his own responsibilities.
               But it is written, "The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord."
               Twice already, since the moon rose, Mary had gone to the door to look for the deacon. When she had assured herself that no figure walked along the road or across the fields, she still stood there and noticed how all things brightened in the moonlight, and listened to the sounds proceeding at intervals from barn and shed where the living creatures were gathered; and while she stood she sang:— 
                     
                        "Once on the raging sea I rode,
                        The storm was loud, the night was dark,
                        The ocean yawned, and rudely blowed
                        The wind that tossed my foundering bark."
                     
                  
               
               But she did not go far in that hymn. She remembered what had taken her to the door, and resumed the work which she would not drop again, she promised herself, till August came. Nothing, she felt persuaded, would prevent his coming.
               When he knocked, she said, "Come in," but without rising from her chair; and when he entered she still sat, quiet, and collected, as if she were not to be disturbed by his coming or his going. Mary was a conspicuously fine-looking girl; it was easy to determine into what kind of flower this pink bud would expand. Besides good looks she had good traits,—candor, good temper, steadfastness. She was what is called "well informed," moreover, for she had been a year at a Wesleyan school, and had made good use of her advantages; her composed face and neat attire made her an attractive beauty to the eyes of August Ent.
               In the perfect order and bright aspect of the kitchen in which she sat, in the polish of the oaken floor, the cleanliness of the walls, the orderly array of tin and delft-ware on the shelves, which each had its ornamental border of paper fringe, Ent had come to take a pride similar to that of ownership. Ever since this establishment was set up, he had been filled with admiration by the perfection of housekeeping which was exhibited therein.
               Some Dutch blood flowed in his Mary's veins. To the honest Hollanders of a far-off town the faces of her ancestors were familiar. There toiled her sturdy progenitors, scrubbing with Dutch ardor the fences round their dwellings, yea, even the very trunks of trees in whose shadows the honest fathers sat and smoked. They gave their lives to scrubbing-brush and sand, and went down to dust at last abhorring it. Mary's love of cleanliness, however, was not exaggerated into sin or slavery. August knew whose steady oversight ruled here, turning all things to the best account, whose patience and content were constant. But out of the combination of the very qualities he prized he might have perceived the difficulties he must meet in attempting to persuade the girl to accept with him his faith. To her mind it would be but a little thing for August to leave the strait-laced sect to which he belonged for that of which her father was so notable a member. She did not, perhaps, wish to convert the deacon out of his religion into hers, but she had still less intention of being drawn out of her own religious body into his.
               The relation between them had not yet assumed the shape in her mind that necessarily one must make a proselyte of the other. She was merely persuaded that she had no call to join herself to a denomination so despised by her people as that in which Deacon Ent had grown up. He must of necessity be a conspicuous member of whatever body he identified himself with, and would it not be a great thing if he would prove himself capable of a more liberal Christianity? Father Trost had been asking the same question.
               Among August's thoughts as he came hither had been this, that he would attempt some treatment of the vexed subject this night. It might be that when it was required, he should find himself furnished with an irresistible argument. But when he had entered the kitchen, argument was the last style of conversation he felt desirous to attempt. Still, in the midst of their talk, he did ask Mary if, provided the day were pleasant, she would walk down with him to the meeting-house, and hear Mr. Holcombe preach in the morning. He wanted her to see with her own eyes the impression made by Guildersleeve's confession.
               Mary considered, and said that she would; she had never heard Mr. Holcombe preach, and she liked his wife, she liked them all. She heard he did n't put out his doctrines very often, and hoped he would let 'em alone to-morrow, for if there was anything she disliked it was to have doctrines put at her the minute she went into a congregation where she did n't belong.
               "It seems to me," said the deacon, thoughtfully, "it gets clearer and clearer, that there's one truth that covers all the others, and takes 'em all in. That's the reason that I wonder more and more at this narrow, persecuting spirit which some good people have. If there was more of the great truth understood, there would n't be so much show of holding by the little ones."
               He spoke with a solemnity and tenderness that made an impression on Mary, so that she asked, with utmost deference: "What do you mean by the great truth, August? Some will have it's one thing, and some another."
               He answered with a single word. It rolled out of him like a cannon-ball,—"Love."
               After a moment's reflection, she responded, "That may be."
               When she answered so, and he saw that they were of one mind on the most important point, August seemed to become possessed of a new power of speech; he forgot the church, his influence, his obligations, Mr. Holcombe, Mr. Guildersleeve. "Let all other questions go," he exclaimed. "I did n't come here to talk about doctrines. It was thinking of you that brought me. I never shall rest, Mary, till I see you in my own house. That is your place. Would n't our house be equal to any meeting-house in the land? Would n't we be worth a good price to each other?"
               He himself broke the silence which followed his question: "Did n't you promise, Mary, that nothing should stand between us?"
               "Yes, August, but—"
               "Yes is yes!" said he, impetuously, taking up her hesitating speech.
               "Yes is yes," she answered in a lower voice, but now not hesitating, equal to the demand of the moment.
               "Give me your hand, then, for a token."
               She gave it to him, and it did not tremble in his strong grasp. "I would like to see the thing, the man, or the church that could separate us," he said, with a short, triumphant laugh. Then he arose and lifted the little table, covered so neatly with its white cloth, and furnished so prettily with the candles of Mary's own making, in their bright brass candlesticks. "That shall be done with whatever interferes," he said, moving it one side. "It shall be put out of the way as so much rubbish; Mary agrees to that?"
               Beyond imagination he had spoken,—inconsequential, impotent seemed all argument that would oppose him. He was to be governed by no authority except the authority of the love he had declared. He did not seem to notice even that Mary did not answer his last question; it was in fact hardly a question, but rather an assertion of fact; and indeed, he did read agreement in her face. Looking around he saw Trost's Bible lying on a shelf. He arose and brought it to the table. "We cannot see the end," he said; "we don't know how it will be brought about; but if we belong to each other, nothing shall interfere between us,—we know that. We don't bind ourselves by oaths as some might. I could live a long time on your promise, Mary, but this word of God is precious to us; lay your hand on the book, and let us promise before God to be true to each other."
               Mary shrunk back a moment, as though this were some unholy rite he were proposing; but she could not withstand the appeal of his solemn yet glowing face; she came forward and laid her hand upon the book; he closed his own broad palms over it, and bowed his head as if in silent benediction, and then aloud called on God to witness that he gave himself to love, protect, and serve her.
               He had hardly ceased speaking, when Father Trost opened the door, and advanced into the room. "Well, well, young people," said he, not unpleasantly, "are you holding Quaker meeting?"
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE RANKLING THORN.
               WHEN Friend Holcombe went home he found a light burning, and his wife waiting for him. She had been looking over one of those books which Edna read so much of late,—a volume Edward Rolfe had given Bishop Rose; the margins were covered with commentary on the text, and the text was William Shakespeare's. When she heard her husband in the porch, she rose and carried the volume to a shelf near the door, and then, as if she had forgotten her purpose, brought it back again. She had not forgotten; she wanted to talk about Edna with Friend, and learn his opinion of the book, and whether it was quite well to allow the girl large liberty among those plays. But when he came, looking so weary, she hastily put the volume aside.
               "You must be very hungry, and how tired you are! I have tea waiting; come take something, dear, before you drop asleep."
               "I shall have to get rid of what I have on my mind by sharing it with you, before I can sleep," said he, following her to the table.
               "How did you find Mr. Guildersleeve? The doctor told me where you had gone." So easily, after all, the question came to her lips! Ever since the doctor left her, Delia had been thinking that question over, fearing it would be difficult to ask how the sick man was. But indeed it was to her a great matter that Guildersleeve should have sent in his extremity to her husband,—a great matter to her, because the fact would redound to the honor of the church when known. And then, his repentance, how significant!
               "He is really dying, Delia, and quite broken down and penitent. I am to present his contrition to-morrow to the brethren, and ask them to receive him back."
               "O Friend, is it possible!"
               "It is a marvel,—if we forget that with God all things are possible."
               "But you did expect it. You said, 'Moses Guildersleeve is n't dead yet!' when you heard that Father Trost had been to see him."
               "There's something that weighs heavier than that on my mind, Delia. Deacon Ent loves Mary Trost." And now he had unburdened himself, had told her all.
               Delia looked at her husband as if she could not comprehend what he had said.
               "It is true," he said, with a heavy sigh. "He came and told me of it himself."
               "Did he do that? Thank God!"
               "August was the last person I ought to have expected such a thing of, and I did not expect it; but I am sure, Delia, I am sure," he said, repeating the words he had spoken that afternoon to the young man, "with the temptation there will also be provided a way of escape."
               "O, do you think so? But he told you,—that seems a hopeful sign; but, Friend, this is terrible."
               So terrible did it evidently seem to his wife, that when Friend heard her voice and saw her face, he regretted that he had cast this heavy burden on any one except the Lord.
               "Yes," he said, unconsciously expressing more hope than he actually felt, "I am sure that with this temptation a way of escape will open."
               "There is one way," said Delia; "just one, Friend, only one."
               "What is it?" he asked with a brightening face and almost eager voice. It was not the first time that Delia had opened a door of deliverance for a tempted and tortured soul.
               "Let him go with Mary. Advise him to go. Advise him, Friend!"
               "Why, Delia! O no, I hope the Lord will show a better way than that."
               She answered, with strange vehemence: "Hailstones and coals of fire are from the Lord, as well as sunshine and dew. Do not trust that he will wait for the Lord's showing, for he will not."
               "Dear wife, I think you do not quite understand August."
               "O Friend! The very fact that our restrictions are what they are convinces me that he will not succeed in persuading the girl that it is best for her to break her old grandfather's heart by joining us. If I had August Ent to advise, I should say, 'Go and marry her before everybody.' I would tell him so to-morrow. It is not so much to lose a member of the church, even when it's August Ent, but we have always thought it a great thing to save a soul. We shall be ruined through Christian men, and in the name of the Lord, Friend Holcombe."
               Mr. Holcombe was silent. He repented that he had spoken to his wife on this subject. She seemed not to notice his silence further than to make use of it.
               "He will never give her up. You know how obstinate he is about other things,—he'll not change his nature in this business. You must advise him to leave us, and to marry her."
               Then said Friend: "I think better of August than that, Delia. I think, as you say, that he will not change his nature. He would be very little better than a thief and a liar, if he could deceive us, and keep up a show of membership when he had proved himself no true son of the church. No, no, he is sorely tempted, but he is an honorable, upright man,—a character to be trusted with the honor of the church, in a worse strait even than that he is in. Dear wife, let us pray for him."
               But while he prayed, Delia was repeating to herself those words he had used,—they pierced her heart,—a "liar," a "thief," "honorable," "upright," "a character to be trusted with the honor of the church." "It is so," she said, "I am all this,—a liar, a thief, trusted with the honor of the church, and, Judas-like, betraying it. O Lord God!"
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               A WOMAN'S MOUNT OF JOY.
               SOMEWHERE in the foregoing pages mention has been made of Mr. Christopher Boyd. The name was of consequence in Swatara and in the world, and the person bearing it worthy of consideration. From Boyd's house you might see the sun set beyond the low line of hills more than thirty miles away. The proprietor seemed to live nearer to the sunrise than any of his men; he had he could n't tell how many hours of sunlight more than the people in the valley. It might do for miners and tradesmen to live down there; but a workman of a different sort from these, a working-man for whom life at the utmost would be short, must get the longest days out of Nature that she would give.
               Perhaps he said that because he had never lived on a mountain-top until he came to Swatara; perhaps he would never have built that gray stone cottage on that rocky west-edge of old Blue, had not the foundations been already laid there, and the walls half built, and trees well cleared from the level when he came. Perhaps Mr. Boyd was indebted to Edward Rolfe considerably more even than he deemed.
               It was poor Rolfe, who perished untimely, that purposed to live on the mountain-top; and Boyd was in his place. How goes the Scripture? "One man soweth and another reapeth." We cannot say, however, if we speak with precision, that Mr. Boyd's sickle was in Mr. Rolfe's field. The work of the two men differed as they themselves did. But we can say truly, no Rolfe in Swatara no Boyd, and no Boyd no Swatara—for us. Swatara for Swatara's self however, in spite of world, flesh, and devil; and thirty miles of hill and valley between the top of old Blue and sunset, though in the wilderness were no man. Mr. Boyd was heard to talk sometimes about that prospect. When he first became a settler he had artists up there early in the spring, late in the fall, and in the midsummer heat, to see what could be done with that great are of red, blue, green, and purple, and the miles and miles of gold and silver mist; for it was not in his nature to let riches run to waste. There was one among these, who came year after year, and not because he found a princely patron in the gray stone house. He had conceived such a love for the region, and such an admiration of Mr. Boyd, that he made the yearly pilgrimage, and always took away with him some of the "strength of the hills," which he transferred to canvas for exhibition walls.
               Mr. Boyd sat on his piazza, smoking, on that evening of the week so momentous in the church history of Swatara. While he smoked he looked over the latest report on the market, which had just been brought to him from the Emerald Station; for he had his daily paper, though he seemed to be out of the world. He was thus occupied when Mr. Elsden came. Mr. Boyd was not very well pleased when he saw this gentleman approaching; yet knowing that the superintendent was of all men not the one to volunteer a visit, unless there were reason good, he rose and stepped forward to receive him. If this gray-haired man, who, under the most abject circumstances, must have made clear his right to be treated as a gentleman, could not be received with cordiality, that lack must be made up by more civility than could have been demanded by any mere business agent. If Boyd was Boyd, still more indisputably Elsden was Elsden.
               The superintendent took the chair placed for him, and then the proprietor expected to be informed in regard to the occasion of this visit. Mr. Elsden had no time to waste, of course.
               It was about the patent to be secured for some important simplification of machinery devised by one of the workmen, John Edgar. Mr. Elsden wanted Mr. Boyd's opinion. That was easily given.
               "Secure it, by all means."
               "Then I shall take the necessary measures?"
               "Certainly; yes. At once."
               "Edgar is making himself very useful, Mr. Boyd. I think if his wages were increased, we should have the benefit."
               "Do you think so? He has thirty dollars a month, has n't he? We raised once. Make it forty, if he really deserves it. I suppose we should all like to be paid for doing our best."
               Was that all Mr. Elsden wanted? It was hardly what he wanted at all, if the fact must be known; though he did want to use John Edgar, and saw that the way it could be done most easily was by conferring a favor upon him. But the thing Mr. Elsden had come at this time expressly to accomplish was the destruction of Hook; in other words, he wished to convince Mr. Boyd that there was no use in going on any longer, as they had been going on now three months, throwing money into Hook Mountain and getting nothing back but labor and vexation. Twice already the superintendent had attempted to show the proprietor that the search was useless, as it had been fruitless, that there was n't any coal there worth mining: Mr. Boyd had conceived a confidence in Hook which it seemed impossible to destroy; so he had insisted that the work should go on, and the work had gone on. He looked a little impatient when Mr. Elsden now touched on the subject again, but the superintendent continued to dwell upon it in spite of that, and ended by making out so clear a case against old Hook, that Mr. Boyd became at last convinced. "Very well," he said, "we leave Hook. Where shall we begin next?"
               Mr. Elsden had determined that the question should be asked, and, now that it was asked, had his answer ready; his advice was to begin at once on that abandoned mine under Chestnut Ridge, there was every indication of a great harvest there. It had been deserted by former proprietors, as he had found, because of inadequate machinery; there was no such want existing now; they were prepared to work any ground, however stubborn or difficult. Boyd knew that very well; he had spent a fortune in machinery already. If Mr. Elsden was prepared to promise success, it was n't any particular field he insisted upon working; what he wanted was a crop.
               When he had said that, Mr. Boyd arose and walked across the piazza. He had hardly patience to think on this subject as long as they had been talking about it. "I forgot to mention to you," he said, returning to his chair, "I am expecting my brother to-night. He is coming to live with me."
               Now this information surprised Mr. Elsden, for it was the first intimation given by Mr. Boyd to Swatara that he had brother or kin in the world.
               Considering the nature of the information, and the manner in which it was communicated, Mr. Elsden received it with remarkable self-possession. A man who lives in one idea, and exerts himself in furtherance of a solitary object, finds it at least difficult to sympathize with the interests and operations of another sphere. If his life is a selfish one, he will not be able to speak the natural language of the affections with the purity and grace of one whose mother tongue it is. Old Guildersleeve would doubtless find it a hard matter, when he should presently attempt the speech of Gabriel.
               Mr. Elsden was not prepared to smile in the face of Christopher Boyd, as Dr. Detwiler would have done, with cordial congratulation that his solitary life was to have some variation. He had neither the heart nor, at that instant, the will. For a moment his eyes were averted. The next, they were turned on Boyd, and he said such things as became him, not worth much, but they pleased the man who received them. Further efforts in this direction were spared the superintendent, for the attention of Boyd was now attracted to the walk leading towards the south piazza; with a quick glance at Mr. Elsden he stepped out on the greensward. Nothing lower than God's heaven should crowd upon the meeting,—for nobody need tell him, that of the two figures approaching one was Max.
               Mr. Elsden was astonished by the emotion Boyd evinced when he received his brother. The young man was evidently surprised at the cordiality of his reception, and embarrassed by it. He had his recollections of Christopher, but they were not of a character that prophesied the embrace he now received, and the tender words he heard; such words as a father might have spoken to a son for whom he had long been waiting. Indeed, there was a difference of twenty years between the brothers.
               However cordially Mr. Elsden must have wished himself out of the way, at the moment when the two walked up the steps, it was quite certain that he would not betray his sense of the inopportune.
               Going or coming, his presence was something to be considered, and so now, when after introduction and a few words he departed, the eyes of the new-comer followed him, and he asked: "Have you a colony of gentlemen up here to equal that one? He looks like a college professor who has plenty of stock."
               "Paying?" asked Christopher, leading the way into the house.
               "Fifty per cent at least."
               "He has taken his turn at being cleaned out,—was president of a bank once, and rode a high horse. But, as you say, he never forgets himself, if that's being a gentleman. Hungry, Max?"
               "As a wolf."
               "That's a thing we manage well up here, if we fail in everything else; your appetite won't run down. Let's see what. Mrs. Wayne can do for us. We waited dinner for you. How did you get here?"
               "A left-handed fellow drove me up. What a capital road you have, Christopher; so good for the eyes, too, winding in and out amongst the green. Not a particle of dust."
               Boyd cast a queer look at his brother while he said that, and nodded.
               
               "You found dust enough on the cars, though, I'll be bound. Come and see your private quarters. There! Can you make yourself comfortable in that room?"
               The door was standing open, and Max, glancing in the direction pointed out by his brother, saw a handsome apartment, which had gray walls, and was carpeted with green. Boyd had commissioned his artist friend to order the furniture, and nobody had as yet occupied the room. It was reserved for Maxwell.
               "I'll try to manage it," said he; "I have been able to get into closer quarters."
               "Well, go in and take possession."
               Mr. Boyd was, in fact, glad to be rid of his brother for a moment. He walked away to the farther end of the piazza, when he found himself alone, and wiped his eyes.
               Dinner was soon served, in Christopher's usual style,—abundant, excellent, well ordered. While the elder served the younger, he took note that he had received under his roof a companion who was neither a glutton nor an epicure.
               When they returned to the piazza, Christopher pointed out the main features of the prospect he commanded, but did not dwell upon them. Something better was in process than that glorious down-going of the sun. Such a talk as now began, it is safe to say, had never before been carried on under that roof. For what memories were revived! What hopes were now to be verified, or—not!
               Maxwell remembered how full of grief and trouble his heart had been when they parted, and how his brother had on that occasion turned toward him the face of a stoic, dry-eyed and uncomplaining. Also he must remember how, on all those stormy occasions of his life which stood out so distinctly in his memory, seasons of chaos and of ruin, Christopher had stood immovable as rock. Max had thought he knew his brother when he ascribed to him merely will and daring. The reception he had now met seemed to indicate other and very different qualities in addition.
               When Boyd placed Maxwell in the institution from which the latter had just come a graduate, he had, indeed, parted from the lad without the most distant intimation of regret; and this silence had urged the young student along through the first months of school life, in a way that drew to him attention which a youth of his character would take pride in sustaining. He could not forget what Christopher had said when he first entertained the project of securing for him a thorough education: "It's too late for me to think of learning what they say every schoolboy knows. I have no education, and I shall suffer on that account as long as I live. But no matter! I have made up my mind to go through as I am. You shall have the learning. Stick at it. It will be almost the same to me as if I had it myself. If I were you,—but of course you can't feel about it as I do! Take my advice, and make the most of yourself. You have the chance; I'll stand by you."
               Remembering these words, and how they were spoken, Maxwell Boyd had studied to some purpose, and had now brought with him, not only his diploma, but also the gold medal for general scholarship, for which he had worked hard.
               And so he had come proudly, prepared to serve stern-hearted Christopher, not knowing but he would prove a hard master. That doubt was swept out of mind in the first hour of reunion.
               The younger brother was a fair copy of the elder. He had the same well-shaped, compact, not lofty figure; the same honest, manly features; the same light brown hair and clear hazel eyes. The expression of the two faces was very different. When twenty years had passed over Maxwell, the same lines would not mark his face as now marked that of Christopher. Maxwell had labored, on the whole, in pleasant paths. He had not been tossed about by circumstances, to make at last the marvellous discovery that there were place and power for him also; he had never advanced alone and self-reliant, to take upon himself responsibilities which, if he failed of an anticipated result, would bury him in ruin, assuming them with the conscience and the purpose of a man who sees his way clear, though the men who stand beside him cannot guess the end.
               Christopher Boyd had passed through dismal experiences,—had borne sharp reverses, suspicious, was not always well understood. But constantly he had pushed on towards success, and finally had triumphed. He too had looked forward to this meeting with anxiety. He had rarely been mistaken in his estimate of men. He would certainly criticise the youth who had come to live with him; and he had almost feared to think what might be the result of his first investigation.
               The result had pleased him. Max was strong, manly, courteous; voice, bearing, and address were all in his favor; his attire became him; he had remembered that Christopher was twenty years his senior.
               When Max understood that whatever he had to tell in regard to college experiences would interest Christopher beyond any other information, he dwelt at length on his past year, and finally produced diploma and medal.
               The diploma certified to the young student's good scholarship, attested his fidelity, integrity, and progress, and declared that he went from his tutors and professors bearing their confidence, respect, and good wishes. The scroll was signed by a dozen names, every one of which conferred special honor on the graduate.
               Christopher Boyd read the document in silence. Long after he had read it, he sat gazing on the parchment and seals, thinking of Boyd professorships, Boyd scholarships and endowments, so grateful was he. At last he exhibited his satisfaction by an act. Without a word of comment, he went to the wall, where his friend Barlow's finest picture hung, and loosened the cord by which it was suspended. He then removed the picture from its frame, and in its stead placed this realization of a great hope; then, stepping on a chair, he made conspicuous on the wall the precious evidence of human love, manly fidelity, and power.
               "You are a good fellow," he said, turning his flushed face towards Max, who stood the image of expostulation and embarrassment before him.
               "You don't actually mean to let that diploma hang there in place of this fine picture."
               "You'll see a finer, maybe, if you step to the door; but a thing like that, Max, is n't to be had every day. I could n't have bought that at any price."
               "O, but to go and stick a fellow up like that, to be read and known of all men!"
               "Good enough reason for it. It does n't lie,—does it? It says you have ability and self-respect,—education too. What more would a man have? There that diploma hangs. You won't be apt to live it down. Now, my boy, time you went to bed."
               Boyd took Richard Barlow's picture as he spoke, and held it at arm's length from the lamp. Having surveyed it, he deposited it in a corner. Max shook his head, and looked ruefully at the diploma, staring at him from the wall with its red eyes.
               "Barlow is n't a fool," said Christopher; "and I can order a cart-load of frames any day I please; but there's only one thing of that kind to be had by us. Breakfast at seven, Sundays included! Good night, Max."
               "Good night, Christopher."
               "I am just across the hall," said Boyd, coming back. "There's a bell-rope at the head of your bed. Call for what you want. Mrs. Wayne and her Molly think I made the mines."
               Look from the heavens, poor mother, who gave the best of your life for these sons! Know at last what you believed possible while you tarried on earth, cramped by poverty and sickness, and thwarted and discouraged whichever way you turned! It was worth your while to sojourn in the miserable shed within sight of the great canal embankment that bounded your horizon,—worth while to bring into being these strong souls, to give of your scant life to make their fulness!
               Rejoice in heavenly places, because this night two stout-hearted men recall your patient suffering, your valiant endurance, your charities which cost so much, and were so freely rendered, in spite of want and labor! They remember well, though they cannot speak of such things even to each other,—they remember well the hope and courage which survived long winters, employment uncertain, uncertain wages; and how you rejoiced in a sunbeam, were quick to smile, and even to sing. Rest, in the splendor of the unclouded heavens!
               Surely, the Angel of the Lord encamped among these mountains.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               AMONG THE BRETHREN.
               WHEN, on Sunday morning, Mr. Holcombe passed up to his desk between the rows of well-filled benches, his aspect indicated to such as knew him best that there was work of unusual solemnity to be performed by him that day.
               The women and girls belonging to the church, according to the Mennonite custom had taken off their bonnets and left them in the room adjoining that in which the people assembled for worship. They sat with bared heads in the congregation, their attire, in style and color, presenting a grave contrast to that of the women, belonging to other denominations, who had come to meeting because they liked Friend Holcombe, or for the reason that they had nowhere else to go.
               The garb of the brethren, also, was such as would have attracted attention to them, by reason of its marked simplicity, among any other than a world-renouncing people. As the preacher looked around him, a glance told him how large a proportion of the little company was composed of the "peculiar people." He was glad to see that the fine morning had brought out so fair a number of poor Guildersleeve's brethren.
               The day was delightful in its early hours. The morning mists had long since passed up the valley and above the mountain-tops; and a breeze was stirring, which made its own music as it blew through the pine groves and along the mountain passages. Birds sang with the Swatara, and glad as the waters in their flowing were the feathered creatures in their flight. All things seemed moving on,—moving on to judgment, thought Delia Holcombe, as, sitting in her usual place, she saw the congregation gather. There was a word about to be delivered, for which she waited as if it were a word of deepest personal concernment.
               The confession of Guildersleeve, the temptation of Ent, the use Mr. Trost might make of these facts when they came to his knowledge, were subjects of thought sufficient to fill her with apprehension. Sore would be the loss if Deacon Ent should leave them, but terrible the victory if he should succeed in the thing he would of course attempt, and make a convert of Mary. More awful yet to think of was the compromise which it was not impossible he might make between the creed of his fathers and the passion of his heart!
               While she sat there in her corner of that quiet house of God, Delia trembled. She shuddered, thinking of Trost, for suddenly she seemed to see his dreadful eyes fixed upon her, in the triumph of the moment when he should give his daughter to Deacon Ent, who, for a woman, could give up his creed. At that moment, looking up, she saw the deacon enter the meeting-house door, and with him Mary. She had come with him! This, then, was to be the result! Would it not be better to see triumph in the eyes of Father Trost than defeat? to hear him say, "You see we don't have any works of darkness going on among us," than to hear what he might say if he found that his own flesh and blood had surrendered to the system against which he was carrying on a crusade?
               August looked towards Delia, evidently seeking a vacant seat; near her there was none, but Edna, rising, beckoned, and Mary sat down beside her, while the deacon went on to his accustomed place. He was full of hope. Mary might perhaps learn that day that it was impossible he should leave the brotherhood, and perhaps would lose her wish that he should do so.
               She had come to meeting with August comforted by the feeling that her grandfather had consented to her coming. He had returned unexpectedly last evening, but this morning had set forth again, to preach four times before he slept again. Whatever he may have thought when he saw Mary and August standing by the table on which his Bible lay, he expressed no dissatisfaction, but made Ent sit down while he ate his supper. It may have been that then, for the first time, he thought it possible that this fine young man and his Mary might find in each other everything desirable in a lifelong companionship. Mary, however, must bring him round. It would not do for Father Trost to begin with obstinacy. And so he had willingly consented that, as he was to hold services at a distance from home, which she could not possibly attend, she should go down with Mr. Ent to Preacher Holcombe's meeting. Thus he would lend his child to the service of the Lord! Let her tempt a good man from his allegiance, if she could!
               And so there Mary sat beside Edna Gell; and Edna Gell, having noticed that she came with Deacon Ent (she must have come with him, for they were neighbors, and he had looked around to secure a seat for her), became presently so much absorbed in her own thoughts, that when Mr. Holcombe's voice broke on the stillness, after the silent prayer with which their service began, she started and blushed, as if her secret mind had been laid bare, and looked towards John Edgar, whose black eyes met hers, as if they had been seeking them.
               The people were gathering in larger numbers than usual that bright morning. They came from far and near. Strong men like Dr. Detwiler felt and acknowledged Mr. Holcombe's influence, and were glad to be guided by a preacher of the gospel who preached of Truth which could conquer the grave, and which lived and walked among the Swatara hills as surely as it had once walked among the hills of Judæa.
               Mr. Christopher Boyd also had the greatest respect for Mr. Holcombe; he was present with Maxwell; and so was Mr. Elsden, who was a judge of men, and careful of what he said about this gospel teacher.
               Never did the minister's commission seem more rightfully and manifestly Friend Holcombe's than it did this day. Never did he seem to be more assured of his calling than on this morning, when he arose in his place and looked around upon the people with a deliberation of survey that seemed numbering and individualizing, that he might know the spirit of the congregation.
               The heavens above, and the earth beneath, inspired him,—love of Him whom the confession of penitent age was about to honor; sympathy with those who had come to receive what he could give them,—tender, patient women with their little ones in their arms, gray-haired men, young men and maidens.
               For a while, in the first quarter of his address, he seemed to be struggling with words; but at last, in a triumphant moment, the spirit mounted strong and free, and clear as a bugle-note rose the preacher's voice.
               He carried the people with him, and must have known that he did so. He saw that all eyes were fixed on him, and that there was an eager waiting for his message. The old men who sat in their shirt-sleeves, with their coats spread on their knees, their bodies bent forward, testifying by significant looks and gestures to the truth of his teaching; the children, whose fascinated gaze was upon him, their attention won by a gentleness and earnestness of utterance that helped to make his words intelligible to them; the women,—he could not have asked for better audience, had he been thinking of himself with the impassioned love he had for truth.
               When he came to speak of Guildersleeve, it was in a way that banished, at least from sight, every feeling in the congregation that might have been acknowledged out of place and cruel among the members of a family. There was a momentary stir, and then the preacher seemed to hold every heart in his hand; nor did the announcement that the alien had returned to them, with confession of sin and prayers of forgiveness, lose any of its force when Mr. Holcombe addressed the old men, Eby and Ahern, reminding them of their often-expressed hope, while at the same time he mildly rebuked the unbelief of others, rehearsing for them the story of that prodigal whom his father went to meet with kisses and a ring.
               Strange if, in the hour of such pleading, anything like ill-will or pride or exasperating memories should have been allowed a place! A softening light seemed to fall on the wondering faces,—mild evidence of the softening influence with which every heart was surrounded; and when he said, "Let us pray for our departing brother, that he may reach our Father's house in safety," there was a movement among the people, so immediate and so reverent that the fervor of the prayer seemed to do no more than express their mood.
               When the congregation had dispersed, the brethren of the church, in compliance with Mr. Holcombe's request, still remained for consultation, the old men and the young; and conspicuous in the observation of all, but surely not because he sought pre-eminence among them that day, was Deacon August Ent.
               The preacher was going immediately to visit Moses Guildersleeve; the sick man expected him. What would they? What message should he carry? What recollection of the household of faith would they let him have to enlighten the dying man's dark hour? What words of brotherly comfort would they give the afflicted and tortured soul, to carry with it from earth?
               Mr. Holcombe addressed them in a manner that told how greatly his own spirit was disturbed; when he had spoken, he sat down in the midst of profound silence. He and his Master ruled that hour, and pity stood in the place of judgment and justice.
               At last Eby, the oldest man among them, who, as was well known, had condemned harshly, albeit with hopeful expectation, the contumacious behavior of Guildersleeve, arose in his place. He began to speak in a low monotone; but as he went on his voice rose higher and higher, till at the conclusion a shrill song was resounding in the ears of the listeners.
               "I believed in my heart, brethren, it must come to this at last, blessed be the Lord!" said he. "Nevertheless, I am amazed at it. The goodness of God is always amazin'. We are beholden now to forget everything,—everything except that Moses has repented and done the first works. He has confessed to God and to the brethren. God be his judge! Brethren, can't we send him word that we're prayin' for him down here? Prayin' not as ef he was the chief of sinners, nuther, but as we should wish to be prayed for if we was in his case,—his dyin' case. He is goin' on the long journey which no man e'er came back from. Will our preacher tell him kindly that some on us have n't never disremembered the days when he used to stand with us, and was a brother amongst us, and how we mourned after him when Bishop Rose told us that Brother Guildersleeve was n't likely to come back no more? But now he has come back firstly, and secondly he is going again, to our beloved bishop as we trust in God, and we can all rejoice together that bymeby we shall meet as friends. For we know, Brother Ahern, that once here amongst us they was such friends that, if the bishop's right hand had been took off, he could n't have felt it no more."
               Deacon Ent's face was covered, and his head bowed, as was that of many another strong man, while venerable Eby, with many tears, delivered this message in behalf of the brethren.
               He had been thinking, while the old man was speaking, of another than Guildersleeve, who Mr. Holcombe had said was as his right hand, and thinking too of all that Guildersleeve had said concerning himself to the minister.
               At last, feeling that men were waiting for his word, he arose and looked around upon the little company. But he saw only three faces. One of these he feared,—Mr. Holcombe's; the others were the faces of Guildersleeve and Mary; all these were bent on him with seriously questioning eyes.
               His bearing was noticeable. No man seemed as much moved as he, by what had taken place. No other could have sent a message more expressive of loving fellowship. By not one word did he refer to the sinner's repentance or to the forgiveness of the brethren. He could hardly have spoken otherwise had the old man always maintained his integrity, and remained in the society, a brother approved and beloved.
               August was not always so lenient, as was well known. He was jealous of the honor of the church. Uprightness, integrity of purpose and of action, the single eye, the open act, were virtues, qualities, powers, which he loved to dwell upon. And there was not a man that heard him now, who would not gladly have trusted him to train all the Mennonite children in the most true faith and doctrine. But now, unflinching readiness in service, obedience at whatever cost, fiery ardor,—nothing of all this was to be discerned in his speech; only human sympathy, and Christian gentleness in view of human frailty.
               He was the last that spoke. It seemed to be the general conviction that he had said all that need be said. The pastor himself had not spoken, could not speak, more to the purpose. The younger brethren would long remember the eloquence of August Ent that day. They might well light their lamps at the light he bore.
               Any one who saw him going up the mountain road, arm in arm with Mr. Holcombe, when the meeting was finally dismissed, might have sung in very joy of heart, "As the trees of lignaloes which the Lord hath planted, and as the cedar-trees beside the waters!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               JOHN EDGAR'S PUPIL.
               JOHN EDGAR had not yet been told that his wages were to be increased ten dollars a month. That was news that "would keep" till Monday morning. So Mr. Elsden thought, sitting in his office and meditating thereupon. It would keep till Monday morning, and even for a longer time. The superintendent had procured the increase, not because he deemed it absolutely necessary in order to secure, for future time, the services of the young workman; but because he could make the favor to Edgar serve a purpose of his own—could use it as a sort of platform on which he might advance and take a survey of the surrounding region. There was Pit Hole abandoned; and here was Hook abandoned. Pit Hole he had bought of a now extinct company, "for nothing" as he deemed, when that company was in the act of expiring. Pit Hole might have been worked till doomsday in search of coal, and the coal would not have been found, because it was not there. But something else was there, which by and by might be developed, when it was discovered,—that was iron. Mr. Elsden was in no haste to have it discovered, he had waited a great many years for successes, and had received failures in the end; he had learned better than to snatch at fortune now. When the time for discovery should come, John Edgar was the man by whom it must be made. "Reckless dare-devil," he had called him once; but now he was "invaluable."
               This John Edgar sat in the machine-shop Sunday afternoon, receiving a visit from Mr. Maxwell Boyd, who stayed long and at length fell asleep. That was not strange; it was so still there; and mountain air is famous for serving the new-comer a trick like that. John was at work over his drawings; and when he saw what had happened, he went on working, whistling, and singing snatches of songs, by turns, in a happier mood than he had been when Maxwell surprised him; for he had not heard that Mr. Boyd's brother had arrived, or had been expected, till Max announced himself. Edgar was in a happier mood,—this young gentleman was so intelligent, so interested in everything he saw, and withal so friendly. It was a hard matter to get much speech out of the elder Boyd. A nod and a word were as much as any workman expected; yet all the men liked Christopher. Their liking, though, was probably a mixture of respect and admiration for the successful man. But it seemed to John that he had found almost a friend in the stranger who had sought him out that afternoon. Now and then he broke off from his work to look at Maxwell; though he had worked diligently, he had not for a moment been unmindful of his presence.
               "I don't envy any fellow living," said he to himself, leaning his elbows on the table and fixing a long, steady glance on Max; "but if I had such a brother to help me along as he has, I—good for me I have n't! Let alone what you can't get! that's my ticket."
               But it happened that, in looking for a pencil, Edgar went around Max Boyd and looked on the table whereon he was leaning his head. The pencil had slipped under the sleeper's hair; Edgar picked it up, but that was not why he started when he did so, as if a bee had stung him; nor why he went off into the middle of the shop, and tossed the pencil two or three times in the air, before he returned to his place and sat down; nor why his aspect was so changed when he resumed his drawing; nor why he now made such bad work of it.
               Half an hour went by, then there was a knock at the door; it wakened Max. He looked up and saw Edgar sitting with his elbows on the table, his head buried in his hands, evidently in deep study. The knock was repeated, but he did not stir.
               "Did you hear that?" asked Max.
               "Yes," he answered, without moving, or even looking up. "I heard it, but I'm my own man Sundays. I know what the fellows would like; but I'll not have them in here making a row, because they have nothing else to do. I have something to do. If they sat and rattled on till morning, what good would that do me?"
               "I am not going to be your janitor in spite of you," said Max, laughing; "but I should think a little recreation might serve you a good turn."
               "Are you going, sir? What's your hurry?" said Edgar, for Max now arose.
               "Well, I don't see that I can assist you in your work."
               "My work won't come to anything to-day. I suppose, sir, if I had studied as many things as you have, I should be saved a great deal of trouble; as it is, I have to grope." There was surely no vaunting in the voice or the mood of the young machinist now.
               "It's not by studying books that men get the constructive faculty," answered Max, gravely. He instantly sympathized with John, recognizing in his words a repetition of the lament, or regret, to which he had already heard Christopher give expression. "That is a sort thing," he went on, "that's put into a body before it can talk or walk. Curious, is n't it? You have it; I have n't. You can get at the books, anybody can; but I cannot get at the invention. Things are dealt about with an even hand, you see. I hope I shall have the pleasure of helping you to what you want badly. Tell me when you need anything to—to get on with your work, I sha' n't be likely to find it out myself, for I am slow at that; besides, not being an inventor, I don't know enough."
               "O you fellow," exclaimed Edgar, jumping up from his chair, his eyes glittering with delight; "you go and tell Mr. Elsden what you have been saying to me and he'll have you shipped for Botany Bay, you or me, one of us, sure. He would think this region not big enough for both of us. It is n't his way of talking to the hands I can tell you."
               "Just hold me to my word, that's all," said Max, in the glow of his generous feeling. "Have you a pipe here, Edgar?"
               "It's against the regulations, sir, to smoke in the building."
               Max turned towards the door, about to go, when another knock arrested him.
               This time John Edgar exhibited a very different degree of interest from that he showed when the first application was made; he evidently recognized the knock, and when it was repeated walked rapidly across the shop, and opened the door.
               "O, you are here," said a girl's voice, "I was just going away. Here are your papers, John; I am much obliged to you."
               "Have you been able to make anything out of them?" he asked, in a voice which had quite another tone from that in which he had been talking with Maxwell Boyd.
               "You may see for yourself." Then there was a rustling of papers.
               "Well enough! did you use a rule, Miss Edna?"
               "Not once."
               Max thought he would like to look at the face of the speaker, but he could not without forcing himself upon the evidently sufficient company of the two.
               "You have a truer eye than mine, Miss Edna. Mr. Barlow said—"
               "Said! has he gone?"
               "Yes; he said you might do excellent things. But study from nature, draw everything you see, try faces. He told me to say that to you."
               "Shall I try your face to begin with, now?"
               Edgar hesitated; if Maxwell Boyd had been without instead of within, he would have said yes; but now he said: "I am afraid not to-day. Begin with a beautiful little face that you can look at and study every hour in the day."
               "You mean Rosa's. I will. You are very kind, John. Good night."
               "Good night, Miss Edna."
               "Were you at the meeting this morning, John?"
               "Yes. You have got old Guilder-sleeve back, it seems."
               "They have. Yes. John, I brought a book with me which I should like to lend you; I covered it because it is not mine. Will you care about reading it?"
               "I shall, certainly, if you have read it, and like it."
               "I want to know whether you like it; I do not quite know what I think; and it is out of their way over there. They don't care about such things."
               "Then I will read it carefully," said John; and he had now evidently forgotten that Max Boyd stood within, or he would have shortened this conversation, brief though it was, in spite of the evident wish of Miss Edna to prolong it.
               "There is a great deal in it. It seems like all the world—so much there is," said Miss Edna; and then she said "Good night" again, and went away.
               "There's plenty of pluck there," said John, going back into the shop, and speaking to Maxwell. He laid the book on a high shelf, and glanced at a bit of looking-glass which was fastened to the wall beneath it.
               "One of your pupils?" asked Max.
               "Not exactly. The doctor took some of my drawings down to the preacher's one day, and she copied them; afterwards she came and asked me to explain what they all meant; since then I have helped her some. Did you see her?"
               "No, but I heard her. And who is Rosa?"
               "She's the preacher's daughter; this one lives with them,—adopted I believe. The girls are about as much alike as the sun and the moon are. Would you like to see the preacher's house?"
               "I dare say I have seen it already, for I have walked all the afternoon; but, yes, I should like to know who's who, and where's where."
               And so the two young men walked about, Edgar as a guide, pointing out one place and another, which he supposed would interest the brother of Mr. Boyd, who had come to live in the neighborhood, and to find his work there.
               By and by Max thought of Christopher, and signified his intention to return. Edgar then made known his preference for the valley road, and so they separated.
               And this was the reason why he determined suddenly to go by himself down the railroad track, rather than up with Max towards the mountain-top.
               Max had taken a glass of wine with Christopher at dinner, according to the Sunday custom of the elder brother. It was a single glass, but the subtle aroma was not yet entirely dissipated when he went into the machine-shop, and the sense that was keenest in Edgar had discerned it as he bent over sleeping Max, looking for his pencil. He wanted to get away by himself where he should have an opportunity of fighting his tempter. He sought the solitude which he should have shunned.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               EDNA ASPIRES TOWARDS THE MARKET-PLACE.
               AT length he perceived that he was going to Emerald, three miles away.
               
               He had gone more than a mile on the road, perhaps, when he became convinced that somebody was following him. It was a winding road, and, looking back, he could see no further than a quarter of a mile. But had he stood and waited long, no one would have appeared, for no one was coming, no one was walking upon the track at that hour except himself. He not only had the impression that some one was following fast, but his imagination acted with remarkable definiteness,—he thought it was Edna who followed; and would he have chosen that she should overtake him? For a long time he looked behind him at every curve; once he stood and seemed waiting, as if he had called to her, or had heard her call to him.
               So conscious was he of the fire raging in his blood, that he believed her steady and far-seeing eyes must have discerned it when she came to the shop. But what if she had discerned it? Whence came this fancy that she was following him? Why should she follow him?
               Poor fellow, with all his bold self-reliance and egotism, it was no new thing for him to be looking about for external proofs which should preserve him from falling. The one fear of his life was that he should stumble into that abyss of ruin into which he had already seen his father fall. To no mortal had he acknowledged this fear. Even Doctor Detwiler had not discerned it, though he had warned him to work because he had seen the danger in which he stood. Edgar, understanding the advice, had followed it; but now and then the volcano gave evidence of internal surging.
               He thought, as he hurried on, that he would go directly to the doctor's office; but in order that he might do so, he must pass the station-house and the inn. Indeed, the doctor's office adjoined the tavern, though not at the end in which the bar was kept. If he could get into the office, he was safe.
               The bar-room was nearly filled with boisterous men as he passed by. He passed almost on a run. The doctor was not in his office. John sat down. What did he want? Why had he forced himself down there, as it were, into the cannon's mouth? He wanted to talk with a human being with whom he could talk in safety. In the midst of the confusion which overwhelmed him, John answered the stern question thus. But when he had made the answer, he turned upon himself with a "No." He knew that he had come there for no such purpose. He had come because the place was Emerald, and the bar-room always stood open inviting drinkers in, and there was never so much fun and joking going on as on Sunday evenings. His flight past was a sham.
               "You came," he said to himself, "because you smelt wine and wanted a drink. You have lied to yourself all the way down, now own it. If you go into that room yonder, own it to yourself, you are going because you want to go. The next thing is to drink with the fellows, and you won't stop when you have begun. You did n't stop the last time till you could n't speak or see, and they carried you to a room and let you lie there like a dog till your drunken fit had passed off. Suppose Miss Edna had looked at you then! Then, as if you could help the matter that way, you worked till you brought on that long fever, and the miners said you would work yourself to death. Elsden understood it, though; so did the doctor; what would Miss Edna think if she saw you here now?"
               So he sat and talked with himself. In the office it was very still. The clock seemed to punctuate and underscore the remarks he was addressing to his conscience, but he could hear voices outside, and could recognize them. By and by they rose in dispute. He went to the windows and listened. The men were quarrelling about something which he knew all about. He could have settled the dispute by a word. He started up, but half-way between the window and the door he said to himself, "That's another blind; don't you put it on." Instead of going out he shut the office windows, though it was a sultry night. Then he went into the doctor's inner room, lighted a lamp, and sat down to read; but one might as well expect to read by starlight while a tempest raged.
               It was late when the doctor came from the pure sweet evening air into his close and lighted room. When he saw John Edgar, his surprise turned into displeasure: "What are you doing here with all these windows shut? the office is like an oven."
               "I had n't any business here, I know that well enough," said John, greatly disconcerted. He had been so occupied with considerations purely personal that the doctor's inhospitable mood surprised him. "I thought if I went out," he added, "the fellows would see me, and—and I did n't want to go in there to-night."
               "What did you come near that mantrap for, then? Open those windows. Have you been sick? Does anybody want anything?" As he spoke the doctor went and looked at the slate and read the names and wants recorded there; he had been absent all day. "H'm—h'm," he said, in his short, abrupt way.
               "I don't want anything, sir," said Edgar; "I guess I shall be able to get by the tavern now without going in, since you're here to see me do it."
               He said this with assumed gayety. There was so perceptible a sadness in his voice, however, that the doctor turned from the slate, went back to the table, and, taking him by the chin, brought his face towards the light. "Do you want to go back for anything tonight?" said he, after a serious glance.
               "I begin work at half past four Monday mornings."
               "So you shall. But you had better stay with me to-night. You can sleep on that lounge. I understand you. You want that fever put out. Here!"—he poured out a wineglassful of mixture—"drink that and go to sleep."
               "I am ashamed," said Edgar, but he took the potion.
               "What are you ashamed of?"
               "To think how I am made up."
               "If you are to be ashamed of anything, it is of what you do with what is made up. That is your business. You were made a present to yourself, and you must accept the gift."
               "Doctor, you know nothing about it."
               "Don't I? You have no more excuse for dying an inebriate than I have. The only thing you have to do, Edgar, is to fight clear of yourself. That's all."
               "I can, can I?"
               "Of course. Take all the help you can get, though, as you go along. For one thing, don't put yourself where you will be likely to be tempted. But if you find yourself in such a place, off with the right hand, out with the right eye, sooner than yield. For in your case yielding is ruin. That body of yours is a sacred thing, John. Let anything profane it at your peril. When you find yourself in danger, get away from yourself; go to the best person you happen to know. Don't stay alone, and don't go amongst drinkers."
               "There's Edna," thought John, and so he fell asleep.
               By four o'clock the next morning he was hurrying up the track. The doctor had called him.
               "Time to be moving," said he; and the youth sprang to his feet.
               "Own to me," said the doctor, "how you happened to be in that plight last night."
               "I don't know, unless it was that I took the scent of liquor."
               "Then you see that you must keep clear of folks that use that kind of perfume. I don't care who they are,—you can't stand it. Deny yourself, John, and take up your cross."
               John did not answer by speech, but he caught up the doctor's hand, shook it hurriedly, and walked off.
               His heart grew lighter as he went towards Swatara. That was surely not his true self with whom he had parted company last night on the doctor's sofa! He had risen up and had come forth a new man, so strong he felt. As he approached the foot-bridge which crossed the creek in front of Mr. Holcombe's garden, he heard a voice singing, and he knew it was Edna's. At first he thought she was on the other side of the stream; but as he walked on, he found that she was among the bushes so burdened with berries, and he went out of his way a few steps to look at her, and possibly to speak to her. She had, of course, no suspicion that he was so near, for she kept on singing; but, yes—she had seen him, and was singing with a smile! When he said "Good morning," she was not in the least startled, and looked up as if it were the most likely thing in the world that he should be walking along that way, at that hour of the morning,
               "How goes the picture-drawing?" he asked.
               "Well, John, I wish you could see it."
               "Then I shall see it, Miss Edna, of course."
               "It—they all knew who it was meant for."
               "Indeed! When shall I sit for my portrait, Miss Edna?"
               "I am going into the blackberry business just now largely. They say there is money to be made by it. I heard the doctor saying yesterday that there would be a great demand this year. I mean to gather all that grow about here."
               "To sell?" asked John, with a satisfaction for which he could not have accounted to himself. It arose from the sense of equality which her determination to go into the market seemed to suggest and to imply.
               "Yes, to sell. I cannot live on other people's bounty. I must do something, you know."
               "Why, how comes that? Bounty! Miss Edna. I don't suppose such a thought would enter Mr. Holcombe's head."
               "It has entered mine, though, and that is enough. It entered it before I ever went there, and it never has gone out. I must feel myself independent wherever I am. But you need not say anything about it. Of course they would not like it: but I feel so, all the same. Do you understand it? I read in the book I lent you something like, 
                     
                        'O, how wretched
                        Is that poor man that hangs on princes' favors!'
                     
                   Well, it need n't be 'princes' favors' to make one 'wretched,' and I am not going to 'hang on' to any such thing."
               "I wish you success in your berrying; but I would try not to feel that way. Everybody is dependent, I guess, if you look into things."
               "Yes, I know it; but not that way. I was dependent on you for help in my drawing: that did n't hurt me."
               "And I am dependent on you for a great deal, and that does n't hurt me," said John; and because he did not choose to hear the answer she might make to that, he walked off with a "Good morning."
               "I want to ask you if you have read my book yet?" she said, as if she had not heard his "Good morning" or perceived his intention to go on.
               "I have not, but I will; and when may I see your picture of Rosa?"
               "I will think about that: very soon, perhaps. John!"
               He came back when she called him, and she showed him the berries she had gathered, and then said:—
               "Do you really think it is so hateful in me to wish to pay my way there? They are not rich."
               "No, not hateful to wish that. But you know what we all think of Mrs. Holcombe about here."
               "Well, what do you think?"
               "Why, we think—there was never another like her."
               "Perhaps there never was, but—we don't seem to understand each other. I don't know why I should tell you of it. She is very kind to me, but if it did n't seem so silly, I should say we were afraid of each other. Do I seem terrible to you? For you think she is an angel."
               "O Miss Edna! you must n't ask me how you seem to me. It is n't six o'clock yet, and it's Monday morning!"
               "I know it," said Edna, laughing; "I ought not to keep you here when your work is waiting. But I do get so tired of myself all the time. But go on,—you might as well first as last."
               "Miss Edna," said John, suddenly, "I have a mind not to go on until I say something that—that—If you get so tired of yourself, would n't you get more tired of me? May I help you always? Will you let me slave for you and not feel that you owe me anything? I could give my life for you. I will live for you, if you will let me."
               "John," said Edna, her eyes opening wide on him in genuine wonder, "what do you mean?"
               "You have made me love you, and I have been fool enough to tell you of it," he answered, confused and stammering.
               "You are not a fool; and if you do love me, I thank you for it," said Edna, promptly enough.
               But John was so surprised himself at what he had said, that he could not believe she had understood him.
               "I mean for all my life," said he.
               "That was what made me so thankful," said she.
               "But, Edna, Miss Edna, will you marry me? could you? would you? Me, Miss Edna,—me! John Edgar!"
               "Not this morning, John. It is Monday morning, you know, and going on six o'clock. I must go back to the house."
               She picked up her basket in a hurry, and was going to run away, when he caught her hand.
               "Is this all true?" he said. "May I go up there to the workshop and feel like a man who has Paradise to work for? You shall have such a home as you deserve, and I—I—O—God bless you!"
               Edna was frightened at the feeling she had stirred. She stood still, thinking. Presently she said,—
               "You may go and work for your Paradise. Any home you would give me would be better than I deserved."
               But though her voice betrayed emotion, it was not akin to that which had stirred John Edgar. He was the lover,—she only a fugitive seeking a covert, and too ignorant to understand rightly the fact. If Mary Trost had happened along that way instead of John, she would, undoubtedly, have received the girl's confidence, and nothing would have followed: but—he had received it; something must follow.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               CONFIDENTIAL TALKS UNDER A VARIETY OF INCITEMENTS.
               GUILDERSLEEVE died, and, as was to be expected, his funeral called out the brethren in a body. The presence of the church members was an indication of the spirit with which the erring man had been received back into their midst. The curiosity was general to hear what the preacher would say about him, now that he was gone.
               The preacher said little, but the Scriptures and the hymns he read, and the prayers he offered, showed no inconsiderable tact.
               Mrs. Holcombe was not beyond the sound of her husband's voice, but her mind was in a strangely wandering mood. She had been looking forward to this funeral day since she had known that Guildersleeve must die. She had come to the house attended by Edna, for Delia had remembered that the day was the anniversary of the death of Annie Gell: last year they had visited her grave on the same day, and this year they would do likewise.
               The day was one to invite the human world out of doors. Little of its glory or its beauty had been lost on Edna as they ascended towards Guildersleeve's. She had noticed all the familiar points as they came up into the highlands: she knew where the wall of green brier flourished, and where the wild briers and the cedars abounded; and when she saw the white daisies and blue harebells, the depths of her heart were stirred. There was an old stone-wall built across the sloping field just back of Annie's house; the red bloom of its wild roses against the blue sky—for often she had lain in the grass under the wall, and looked up at the roses and the blue—she never could forget. She remembered it now as they came up to Guildersleeve's. She remembered, too, that at such seasons of beauty, old Annie used to declare that Edna might as well be a thousand miles off, for all the comfort she had of her society. "You queer creetur," she would say, and shake her head, when she found the girl in some solitary nook, pursuing her investigations or reflections, or whatever it might be that seemed to remove her at such a distance from everything connected with her home life.
               "I'm not lazy, I am working at things," Edna would answer; and the old one would say, "I 'd like to see something to show for it. You are the least like my folks of anything under the sun." But when Edna recalled these words, she could do it without self-reproach, for she knew that no reproach was in them.
               But Mrs. Holcombe, in the house of Guildersleeve, was not thinking of Annie Gell, whose grave they were going to visit, nor of any other mortal under that roof, or beyond it, on earth, or remote from earth, except Mary Trost, who sat beside her.
               The services over, people flocked into the yard to look at the remains of their old neighbor; for the coffin was carried forth with lid unclosed, that all might look upon the dead. Mrs. Holcombe seized the moment to speak to Mary. Perhaps she ought not to hope that she could win her confidence, but it might be that some word she should speak would serve as an arrow in the hand of the Lord: it might be her happy privilege to show that young girl that she stood on dangerous ground.
               "It is a long time," she said, "since you have been to our house. Won't you try to find time to come? Edna is often speaking of you. We would be very glad to see you."
               Her friendly face as she stood looking at Mary, and that voice whose kindness few who had a burden of any sort to bear failed to discern, made an impression. Mary had never thought that Mrs. Holcombe was a handsome woman, but just now she was impressed by her beauty, as well as by her goodness. She seemed inspired with a sudden desire to know better this wife of August's minister, to talk with her, perhaps even to give her her confidence; but it was not quite likely that she would do that just now.
               It was the benignity, the sympathy, the compassion—it seemed like compassion—expressed in Mrs. Holcombe's eye that drew Mary towards her.
               "I am going to stay and bring the house to rights, while they are gone to the grave," said she.
               "Let me stay and help you," said Delia, quickly.
               "Do! If people see you here they will not be apt to hang about so long."
               Mrs. Holcombe's staying did, in fact, seem to have the desired effect. The house was speedily cleared of those who would otherwise have turned the funeral into an occasion of investigation. Most of those who would have remained to explore went out and overtook the funeral train, and the rest left the house.
               The two women, experts in household management, soon restored the rooms to order. The table on which the coffin had rested was put back, the white tablecloth folded and laid away. The edibles spread in the kitchen for the refreshment of such as came from a distance were removed, dishes were washed and put in their places, window-shutters were thrown open, and sunlight came streaming in, even to the little dark bedroom in which Guilder-sleeve had breathed his last; and soon the odors of sweet grass and of clover filled the place.
               Edna had strolled away from the house while this was going on, and stood on the roadside watching the funeral train as it made its slow way towards the burial-place. When all was done, Delia and Mary went into the yard.
               "Somebody will be doing the same for us some day," said Mary. "I hope the neighbors will think as kindly of us then as they do of Mr. Guildersleeve. If he had been a better man he could n't have had a finer funeral. Your people are very forgiving, Mrs. Hulcum. Everybody must see that."
               "It would be a hard heart that stood against a brother who asked to be forgiven," said Delia.
               "Nobody did stand against him that I've heard of," said Mary. "I suppose anybody would have been glad to come here, and do what they have let me do for them. But I would n't have taken half the comfort doing it if things had not come round as they did,—if grandfather had been called in to do what Mr. Hulcum has done, I mean. The thing I like about your people is their charity; and then they are all above-board, as you might say. They all know just how they stand with each other."
               "How could we have the face to ask God to do for a brother what we were not willing to do for him ourselves, as far as we were able?" asked Delia.
               "But it is the spirit of your people," repeated Mary, as if bent on pointing out to the preacher's wife the feature which she found beautiful and praiseworthy, in view of that which she was herself about to attempt in behalf of liberal Christianity. "You have the confidence of all the people in your church, and out of it, Mrs. Hulcum; you have mine, I know, though you have stood by your church just as I have stood by father."
               "It seems to me of little consequence what name we go by, sitting out of doors on an afternoon like this, while the people have all gone to bury an old man. Young or old, that is what we must all come to," said Delia.
               "Yes," answered Mary, thoughtfully, "but it is n't a little thing after all. My grandfather does n't hold that it is, neither does your husband. When we come to the point, we don't think it is, either."
               "But suppose you had only yourself to think of," said Delia, "it would n't seem a great matter, would it, to give up your church for what you should think was more important? I don't mean that anything could be more important than religion and your duty, but your outside church, I am speaking of. One thing might seem sufficient to you to make up for what you lost in church communion; and another to me, if I left mine. Abraham went out from his own country seeking another, and even Moses was persuaded, by what he hoped to find in Judæa, to leave what he had in Egypt."
               "Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abi-ezer?" answered Mary with a thoughtful smile, more moved than she cared to make manifest by Mrs. Holcombe's talk.
               "Yes and no," said Delia, with more spirit. Did not Mary desire to be persuaded? "That is what we all think until we find out the reason why it is so. I knew it must be. There are feelings that can influence us more powerfully than the obligations we own that we are under to people in general, as in a church."
               "If a person has only himself to answer," said Mary, "it would be easy. But that is n't the way with most of us. When it comes to separating from those who cannot go with you, if you go they must see that you choose to, and that there's something you like better than you like them. It is better to give up the thing you would go for, and stay in the place where you were born."
               "It depends upon what calls you, whether you can," said Delia, looking off towards the far horizon, yet speaking with a rapidity which betrayed her nearness.
               "Do you know what has called me, Mrs. Hulcum?" asked Mary, suddenly, turning her frank eyes on the preacher's wife. She had suspected that Delia did know, but whether she knew or not, it was impossible for her to carry on an Indian mode of warfare. Ambush did not suit her.
               After all she was a little surprised and excited by the answer,—"Yes."
               "Is that what you mean by saying it depends?"
               "Yes."
               "It is to give up my religion and take his, that is the thing."
               "No," answered Mrs. Holcombe, now steadily gazing at the girl. "You cannot say it is that quite. You think it will be as well to see what he will do. I would not dare try that."
               She paused. Mary said nothing; she was convicted. She had thought just this.
               "I would not dare," said Delia, "to try what I could do with him."
               Mary's red cheeks crimsoned; but neither did she reply to this further venture of the preacher's wife. All at once, Delia herself found it impossible to proceed; her own face reflected the heightened color of Mary's. Mary's silence might mean embarrassment, but it might also mean scorn of her counsellor. It was quite possible that she was preparing to turn upon her with a suspicion of her own past, equivalent to knowledge. Was she not Trost's grandchild? Was he not everywhere inveighing against Mennonites as a people who lived in violation of their own laws, traitors to their own government, deceivers, and at what point had he stopped short? She was paralyzed by the fear which overtook her in the midst of her endeavor to warn and protect this girl. But presently she felt a hand touching hers, and a voice, half suffocated by emotions, said, "O Mrs. Hulcum, go on, speak to me!"
               Then Delia's spirit rose; and she took up the weapons of the Lord, though it should be to the slaying of herself.
               "I do not think," she said, "that Deacon Ent will leave us. But, Mary, you may become his wife,—forgive me, I dare not leave it unsaid,—you might become his wife, and not seem to be with us. You might secretly marry him."
               "I would scorn such a marriage!"
               Mrs. Holcombe bowed her head; she sat thus considering these words, and all this serious business. At last she looked up, and said still more seriously: "I believe you would. Better, far better, live and die alone, than be deceived by anything that would have an end so different from happiness. You would not consent to it on your own account. I have not meant to say anything against Deacon Ent. There are men as upright as he who would persuade you to do this. I am glad that you are angry. Do you suppose I say this because I think it would be to Mr. Holcombe's credit that you joined our society? I warn you as one woman has a right to warn another. You will not give up August,—he will not give you up."
               "Do you think it would be impossible for you?" said Mary, half angry yet. "You seem so sure of it in my case."
               "When I look into my own heart, I tremble for you."
               "What would you advise, then?"
               "Tell your grandfather exactly how things stand between you."
               "You do not know him, Mrs. Hulcum!" exclaimed Mary, aghast at this counsel.
               "What I say is, do not keep your secret from him. Tell him that he is father and mother to you, and you will be a stronger woman from that moment. And he will be a kinder father."
               "You do not know him, Mrs. Hulcum."
               "No matter if you think so. Be honest. Tell him all. Unless—you find that your church is more to you than your love."
               Mary's eyes overflowed with tears. What had become of her pride and her determination, and that pretty purpose of hers to test her power, and the power of Methodism?
               "I understand these things well enough to know how it will be," Delia continued. "You must give up August, or else see that it is a light thing to leave all and follow him. Why do I say this? Because I am Mr. Holcombe's wife, and know that Deacon Ent is really, as my husband is always saying, the preacher's right-hand man? I say it because I have two girls in my house who may soon be standing where you are. I would not have dared to speak so to you, Mary, had I not feared to keep still."
               Edna now came, and said that the people were returning from the graveyard, and Delia, rising, said, "My girl here will be glad if you come down to our house oftener; she has made you a good many visits. Will you not come soon?" It was easy to promise, and indeed the thing which Mary now desired to do was to keep near to Mrs. Holcombe.
               Delia went down the lane to the well, purposely leaving the girls together a few moments, and Edna half-doubtingly said, following Mary's eyes, which followed Delia's movements, "Is n't she a good woman?"
               "Good!" returned Mary, "she is the shadow of a great rock in a weary land."
               In the graveyard, standing by the low mound which covered the body of poor Annie Gell, Edna said to Mrs. Holcombe, "Do you really think of me as if I was your daughter?"
               "Always!" This was the assurance which Delia had longed so many times to give, and had never found freedom for it. Now the question had been fairly put, she answered from an over-flowing heart. "You are just as dear to me as Rosa. If ever you should doubt it, remember what I say here in this place; it is true. Perhaps you are oftener and more tenderly in my thoughts than even my darling Rose is."
               "How could that be, Mrs. Holcombe?"
               "Ah, you will never understand, Edna, never till you feel that you must call me mother, as Rosa does! But I will tell you. For the very reason that would make it seem unlikely: because you are older than she is, and a great deal older, much more than five years; because your mind is working in so many ways. And—I am so anxious that you should be happy with us, and do that, and be that, which will make you happy. And so, if I should sometimes seem to require a good deal more of you than I do of Rosa, you will understand how it is. Because I am hoping so much for you; because, dear child, I feel so much more responsible for you. It seems even more important to me to do the best I can for you, than to have your love and confidence."
               There was something in the voice which spoke these words that strangely moved Edna. She did not intend to give-her confidence so far as her berrying project was concerned, or in the matter of John Edgar; but nevertheless she brushed a tear from her cheek, and felt conscious of a feeling to master before she could answer, as she did, in a half-despairing way, "I am not worth half the trouble I cost, Mrs. Holcombe. I wish—I wish you were rid of me."
               "But God has given you to us, and his gifts are sacred. So sacred that if you were to go to the ends of the earth I should not feel rid of you."
               These words seemed to have made an impression. Edna did not answer them, but said, looking on the grave at her feet, "I could have loved her better, and served her better, and I wish I had."
               "I am glad that you may think how much you did to make her happy," said Delia. "I was glad when you insisted on paying for the gravestone, and that you wanted one that would have cost a great deal of money, though we thought it would please aunty better if you bought a simpler one."
               "We had only each other," said Edna.
               "Yes, but now she has heaven, and you have earth and memories, and the hope of heaven," answered Delia. "And how many hearts there are which you can make happy. O child, if I could only make you see what it is possible for you to be! Do you not feel in yourself ability to lead a life which would make you a blessing to everybody? I seem to see in you resemblances to the most precious objects that I have ever dreamed of."
               "O Mrs. Holcombe, do not say such things as that to me," said Edna. "You make me feel ashamed."
               "But I shall still look for your increasing likeness to all I have loved best, and all that I do love best. You are not quite what you would like to have me think,—a stranger and a pilgrim. You are our dear child; our house is your home."
               "Mrs. Holcombe," said a voice. By the graveyard gate stood Maxwell Boyd. Driving slowly down the road, he had recognized the preacher's wife, whose acquaintance he had made one day in his wanderings about the neighborhood of the mines. "May I carry you down in my carriage? I am going your way."
               "You will be very tired, if you walk," said Edna, glad to have the conversation, which was becoming so painful to her, interrupted.
               Delia hesitated, but finally took her seat in the carriage, and Max made much of his opportunity of exhibiting skill in the management of ponies along mountain roads.
               He enjoyed his drive so much that, when Mrs. Holcombe invited him into the house,—to the door of which he carried them, in spite of her assurances that it would be much better to let them cross the stream on foot by the bridge,—he accepted the invitation.
               It was his first visit, and he said when he entered the house:—
               "I have n't felt at home before in a dozen years."
               Delia smiled. She was accustomed to assurances that her house was indeed a home.
               "Stay and take tea with us," she said; and so he stayed.
               But he had an unexpected lesson from Mrs. Holcombe before he went away. He had gone out into the little flower-garden in front of the house, to give Rosa a lecture on botany, and it seemed to interest him so much, he laughed so heartily at the work she made pronouncing the names he gave to the simple flower-cups and leaves, that Delia was drawn out of herself and away from her reflections; she felt the cheerful influence of the young gentleman who had won her confidence so easily. He was Mr. Boyd's brother, and his friendly feeling seemed a sort of guaranty of safety to her whom a sense of danger was forever tormenting, so strong and capable he looked. He reminded her of another, who years ago had come to Emerald, as buoyant in spirit and as full of hope and expectation!
               All at once Rosa stood before her, flushed and doubting, and brighter than her bright eyes was the ornament she wore. "Mother, look here!" she said, pointing to the diamond pin which Max had removed from his cravat and fastened in her collar.
               Delia said nothing, but took her daughter by the hand and led her forth. Max expected her, but pretended to be so much absorbed in his examination of a shrub that he did not notice her approach. But when Delia paused beside him it was impossible that he should not look up and perceive. Unfastening the pin from Rosa's collar she laid it on her child's palm, and bade her give it back to Mr. Boyd; and at the same moment Delia's hand rested on his shoulder. The gentleness of her reproof went deep into the young man's heart. "You know these things are not allowed among us," she said. "You are very kind; but you must remember it will not do to show your kindness in such ways."
               Max seemed for an instant vexed; but he received back the ornament.
               "Then I will take it as a present from you," he said, recovering his good-humor. "Must n't I give you anything? To tell the truth, I was pretending that I had just got home after a long absence, and that you were all my family! What if you cannot use it?"
               "Give me your confidence, my son," said Mrs. Holcombe. "You may give me that; and if I see that I cannot trust your discretion, let me say so to you."
               "What do you mean?" asked Max, quite sure that if anybody else had said that to him, he would have resented it as an insult.
               "I mean that you are young, and that these girls are children; and that, though I should like to see you coming hero, I should wish you to remember that there is a great difference between you and them, which you must see. I speak to you very freely, Mr. Boyd, because I think you are to be trusted. I am glad that you feel that you are at home at last."
               Max went out of the house more a man than when he entered it, resolving nobly, and thinking of Mrs. Holcombe as he would have thought and felt had he found a mother.
               But the eyes which had seen Rosa decorated with diamonds would not be likely to lose again the vision.
               Edna said: "I am going to make two pictures of you; one for myself and one for your mother; in one you shall be just as Mennonite as you can be, and that's for Mrs. Holcombe, but mine shall be Sawyerish."
               "If you make me Sawyerish," answered Rosa, quickly, "I'll tear it in pieces."
               "Wait till you get it," returned Edna, with a laugh. "I shall put you in pink, with a sash, and, let me see, with a flower or two in your hair. How pretty that will be! Come now, let me please myself for a moment."
               Rosa hesitated, but finally the girls went up stairs together, and Edna decorated her sister with a pomp of ribbon which Miss Sawyer, who had come to the mountains for her health not so long ago that either had forgotten it, and had lodged for three months in Preacher Holcombe's house, had left behind her.
               "You look like another being; not a bit like a fright. I knew it was the horrid old dress," said Edna, brushing Rosa's hair till it waved above her forehead and rippled over her shoulders. "Now sit there and don't stir till I tell you."
               "You look like another being yourself, Edna, so 't is n't all the dress," said Rosa, sitting very quiet and very conscious, while Edna flew about making preparations to begin her sketch. And indeed she was right. Edna was in her brightest mood.
               "If you make me like Miss Sawyer, I—I shall pout," continued Rosa.
               "Pout, then. Miss Sawyer was a beauty. I admired her."
               "Yes—you cried for grief when she went away, you know."
               "I was glad to have her gone; because it was like a funeral here, before she went, with your mother coming down with that fever."
               "O Edna, think if she—but it could n't be."
               "No; you are right. It just could n't. But suppose you don't look as if you were going to cry,—that's it! I don't want you to look as old as Methuselah in my picture. Well now, tell me, how did those diamonds feel? Mr. Boyd must be very rich to be giving them away like that. Miss Sawyer kept hers under lock and key, and hardly dared look at them herself. I would have liked to throw that box into Pit Hole, just to see if she would have thrown herself in after it.
               "It was an odd thing to do," she continued, after a minute, during which Rosa was probably endeavoring to ascertain how the diamonds did feel. "I have never seen a girl like the one I am making out of you, Rosa. But it will be as if you were his born sister. I must get some colors for it, somehow. You are never to see the picture though, you know."
               "I suppose not; for that's like you."
               "Tut; it is n't like me. I never do what I wish to, or say what I wish to, and you can't find me out."
               Edna spoke with the mystery of an oracle, and Rosa looked at her with profound wonder mixed with admiration.
               "Am I Sawyerish?" she asked, after a while.
               "Just about as much as your mother is," answered Edna, intent on her work.
               "Why don't you say mother, and not 'your mother' all the time?" asked Rosa, looking shyly at Edna, half afraid to utter the question she had wanted to ask so long.
               Edna dropped her pencil, and looked at the child with what she intended should appear overwhelmed amazement.
               "Why should I?" she said. "I have no mother."
               "Because I—O yes, you have! Why, how could anybody be more a mother to you than mother is!"
               "My mother could," said Edna, taking her pencil again, and resuming her work. Since I've lost her,—well and good. You would n't think that you could have more than one."
               "But then it is her," said Rosa, as if she would remind Edna that there never could be but one woman in the world to compare with the woman who gave so freely of her love to Edna.
               "I know it is her; and I know all you can say besides, but you need not say any more about that. You are all too kind to me. I would gladly do anything for you, die for you even; yes, I think that would be the best. Then there would be no more trouble about me or anything."
               Edna was perhaps a particle in earnest, but her chief recompense for so expressing herself was, not the relief she felt, but the surprise and distress of Rosa that she should feel and speak so. She found presently that she must drop her drawing, and give herself heartily to the work of drying the child's tears, and consoling her with assurances that she had only spoken in jest. But this sort of play had been played now to weariness, and Edna felt a little misgiving and shame when she saw how Rosa had taken her words to heart.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               PERPLEXITY.
               "YOU are our dear child," and "our house is your home," were words in themselves so sweet, and they had been so tenderly spoken, that Edna could not forget them. Nevertheless they had not the effect to make her feel at ease with Mrs. Holcombe, nor at home under the preacher's roof. Out of doors she was happy and especially content so long as she could be at work gathering berries, and whatever else she could gather from the hillsides and the woods, that had a market value. One day the doctor found her near the roadside, contemplating a great heap of sarsaparilla root which she had pulled.
               At first he seemed disposed to make light of her labor, until he perceived that it was a serious business with her; then he ceased to treat her as if she were a child, and told her that she was right about it; people had to pay a price for just such things as she intended to sell; she was in the way to make money, if money was what she wanted.
               On the strength of this encouragement she advanced, and asked him if there had been another offer lately from Mr. Faulkner for her land; for, on the doctor's advice, she had decided to let the little farm lie idle until the neighbor who really wanted to add it to his own should be willing to pay the price it was worth. He told her that five hundred was still Faulkner's figure, and asked her if they should stand for the seven hundred, which he had no doubt they should get in time.
               She reflected, and said, yes, if there was a prospect that he would purchase within fifty years.
               But there was something evidently on her mind of which it would be well to relieve her, if he could. What was it? The doctor had many patients besides those whom he prescribed for openly. He had been talking just now with Superintendent Elsden about John Edgar, and felt so encouraged by the report he had heard that he was ready to undertake any other good work that offered. Besides, Delia Holcombe had said to him, not long since, talking about Edna, as if in despair, "That girl meets me at every turn. What shall I say to her? What shall I do with her? What is the matter?"
               He had answered Delia: "She has more strength in her than she knows how to use. That is the matter. I would not be surprised," he had said further, "if you found her intolerable at times. Girls are not often so, I suppose, but boys are. All that headstrong, imperious selfishness which goes rampant in young fellows until they are ashamed of it, in the more enlightened time of manhood, helps to keep the world going. Edna is n't a common drudge, but a born worker. You must control her. Easier said than done, but you can be trusted for that. You won't make the mistake of breaking her down in endeavoring to control her."
               "I am so tired of all this, Michael!" Delia had said that in a way which left no doubt on the doctor's mind that it was a despairing weariness she felt; and he knew that she had made a confession to him which never would have escaped her in Friend Holcombe's hearing.
               "It is very clear to me," he answered, "very clear, that the mother of such a child as Rosa will not make any serious mistake in managing any other girl. The thing is to secure Edna's confidence."
               "She has never given it to me for a single moment!" Delia had exclaimed.
               "She must give it to you though. Command it. It is your right. Why, Delia Holcombe, do you mean to say that you are balked, for the first time in your life, by a chit like that? She is frank and open enough,—too frank, if anything. She won't be reticent everywhere; just make her love you. That's always been an easy thing for you to do."
               But the doctor had not yet forgotten that his words had failed to make an impression. It was with the recollection of Delia's tearful eyes and sighing that he now set himself to discover what could be done by him in behalf of the girl and the woman.
               He stayed there talking with Edna half an hour, and when he mounted Lightfoot and rode away, he had arranged these points in his mind for reflection,—that Edna felt herself adrift and homeless, but that she had resolved on earning a right at least to the food and shelter which Friend Holcombe's house afforded her; that she had read every book that Edward Rolfe had left with Bishop Rose, and most of the volumes again and again; that her mind was filled with the Shakespearian personages and thoughts; that she was ambitious to draw faces well, and had taken to heart the encouragement of Mr. Barlow, conveyed to her by John Edgar; that John Edgar had exercised a distinct and peculiar influence over her, the nature of which he could not quite determine.
               But above all he was questioning the parentage of this girl, and a suspicion had arisen which seemed to him so unjust, so outrageous, that he was glad to account for it by recalling the recent conversation between himself and Mr. Elsden, in which old times had been recalled, and Edward Rolfe so distinctly, that it would hardly have surprised the doctor had he now passed him on the road as he used to do every day.
               But outrageous and unjust though the suspicion was, it was not to be dismissed. It recurred again and again, as the doctor rode his round, and at nightfall he actually found himself hesitating whether he should go over and ask Delia to tell him something more definite than he had heard yet concerning that girl's history. But his hesitation resulted in his return to Emerald the visit unmade.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               MR. ELSDEN PATRONIZES ART.
               MR. ELSDEN—with Rolfe's marriage certificate in his pocket, and half a dozen annual reports of the Insane Asylum known as Rolfe Hall on his shelves, put forth by Dr. Jackson, manager of the same—was considering the case of John Edgar quite seriously that morning, when the doctor called, and incidentally inquired how John was getting on.
               He had already taken steps with reference to John,—important and well-considered steps. He had instructed the machinist how to be a gentleman, indirectly; chiefly by pointing out features and traits in Maxwell Boyd which made him an agreeable companion. These features and traits were all such as could be copied, imitated. In private John had considered these, and had carefully endeavored to shape his conduct by them. Mr. Elsden had also excited his ambition in other ways than by playfully inquiring how long he supposed he would be content to stay delving in the machine-shop. He had praised him on account of the possession of abilities of which John himself was as yet scarcely conscious, and the result had been precisely that on which the superintendent calculated,—the powers he had assumed actually became apparent. Mr. Elsden, in short, had the machinist in training, and in a brief time his urbanity, consideration, and politeness ceased to excite John's surprise.
               Indeed, in the pride of his heart, when Edna showed him the "Sawyerish Rosa" which she had made for herself, his first thought and wish was to let Mr. Elsden see it. So he quietly took possession of the drawing, promising Edna that he would procure paints for her, and on the first opportunity he showed the picture.
               "She is an artist!" said the superintendent, and John told Edna that. But Mr. Elsden said more; he said: "That young lady ought to be supplied with everything that would help her in that work. Do not fail to show her drawings to Mr. Barlow when he comes again; but meantime let me do something for her. What does she want? Has she any materials?"
               John told him what she had, with a light in his eyes by which Mr. Elsden easily read all which he did not tell. And the result was that Mr. Elsden ordered from town a box well filled with artists' materials, which he asked John to give to Miss Edna with his compliments.
               See Miss Edna, then, coming with her lover, to thank Mr. Elsden for his gift! And perceive the Holcombe satisfaction, though mingled with so much surprise!
               And hear Mr. Elsden saying afterwards to John Edgar: "You are a fortunate young man to have been able to serve a young lady like Miss Edna. Tell me something about her. She must have a history."
               That was a subject concerning which it had hardly entered John Edgar's head to inquire,—it was the thought of Edna's self that had occupied him; and so Mr. Elsden said in an off-hand way: "In my opinion, the girl has rights which have never been claimed for her."
               Coming from such a source, the suggestion was startling enough, and John said, "I don't—know what you mean, sir."
               "I don't know that I know myself, but it's between us, Edgar; so if I have made a wrong guess, no harm is done. She is a very pretty girl, and if I were a younger man—You gave her those first drawing-lessons, eh?"
               "Yes. But, Mr. Elsden, what is it you suspect, sir?"
               "I suspect, John, that her father was an old friend of mine, who was killed suddenly. It was not supposed that he left a wife. He had never declared his marriage. But I have reason to think he was married, and anyway this girl looks enough like him to be his daughter. Of course such a thing is n't to be talked of, unless it can be proved. If you care anything for the girl—"
               "Why, she is mine!" exclaimed John, in a tumult; and there he was in his pride, and in his helplessness too, in the hand of Mr. Elsden, who made no more of crushing men with hand and foot, if they chanced to be in the right position for dexterous management, than he would have made of crushing worms.
               "I congratulate you then," he said, with spirit; "she is not only a pretty girl, but an heiress, and we can show it in time."
               That provision "in time" was well suggested. Mr. Elsden, as we have seen already, had no intention of grasping at success in haste now, after so long an experience of failures.
               He was fortunately interrupted in this conversation by the entrance of Maxwell Boyd, and several days passed before Edgar found an opportunity to ask again for explanation of the mystery which was of so much consequence to him. Meantime the fact that Mr. Elsden knew the relation existing between Edna and himself was exalting. It seemed now as if Mr. Elsden must perceive that others had seen that he was not a worthless member of the community, that he had a future before him. But this fact, while it had its satisfactions, was not the only one which occupied him; it was quite possible that he should stand yet on an equality with Maxwell Boyd, and that was constantly becoming more and more his aspiration; almost as if he felt that in time it would be possible to find a rival.
               Suppose Mr. Elsden's suspicions were justified. Suppose Edna was the daughter of a gentleman (it was easy to believe), suppose a fortune did wait her demand, would the relation existing between them be changed? That relation had been established in a moment of the greatest surprise to him. He often found himself questioning the reality of it; it became quite as important to John that he should assure himself of the reality of Edna's love, of its enduring nature, as that he should discover the secret Mr. Elsden had in store for him.
               But how could the truth be discovered? Edna was in such a state of gratitude, on account of the box which Mr. Elsden would never have thought of giving her, she knew, but for John Edgar, that she was ready to fall down and worship him whenever he appeared. Don't blame the poor fellow that he accepted all this gratitude for something else, mistaking it for that in comparison with which gratitude is cold and unlovely.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               AT LAST.
               A WEEK had passed since Dr. Detwiler had entered the preacher's house, and when he went again the aspect of the place had changed to his eyes.
               He found the family together. Mr. Holcombe had returned from a circuit, and the doctor had made sure of that fact before he crossed the stream. Detwiler had been in the habit of saying that another house like this of Preacher Holcombe's was not to be found through the length and breadth of Swatara. Disorder, unrest, discord, falsehood, he could bear the more patiently, because he knew of one house in which purity, truth, and love reigned. He could not overestimate the munitions of courage, strength, and hope he had drawn from this arsenal. But now as he came he felt more like retreating. He was afraid that he should make a discovery; for the suspicion which had flashed upon him a week ago, while he talked with Edna, though many a time rebuked, dismissed, put down, still existed, and it was to convince himself that it had no right to exist that he now came.
               Mr. Holcombe, happy man! was home again after a fortnight of travel, preaching, praying, and exhortation, and now sat under his own vine, playing his flute, the girls on either side of him,—Rosa with her hymn-book, and Edna singing, but at the same time at work with her pencil, making a sketch of him; while opposite sat Delia with a week's mending before her, the picture of content. That box of paints had made Edna so happy that in her inmost heart Mrs. Holcombe was glad.
               There was a commotion when the doctor came,—welcome of looks and words; and after a while the singing was resumed, because he said he had heard nothing but groans and complaints for a year at the very least.
               He was sitting beside Rosa, opposite to Edna; by degrees his eyes wandered from the book, and he closed them to listen; when he opened them again Edna had stopped her work for a moment, and was singing with all her soul. The turn of her head, the expression of her face,—why, he had seen all that in Rolfe a hundred times. Perhaps his surprise, or some other emotion, became visible on his face; glancing towards Delia, he heard, it seemed to him, a voice asking, "What are you thinking of?"
               "Something stranger than was ever thought of before," he answered, as distinctly to her listening sense.
               Delia became absorbed in her sewing, and did not look up again.
               How happy the young folks were, displaying to the doctor the work they had done, and asking his opinion, and singing their songs! They showed him how far they had gone in the geology which he had induced them to take up, on his assurance that the rocks and mountains about them would become as easy to read as any other book, if they would but master the language of the volume. And they showed him the specimens—the slate-stones covered with the impressions of beautiful ferns—they had collected from the materials thrown out of the old mine to which Mr. Boyd had turned his attention anew with such promising results.
               But at length all this was over, and the doctor walked out to the field back of the garden to bring a pitcher of water from the famous spring there.
               It was quite dark, though starlight, and Delia followed him into the porch with a candle. It was a still evening, hardly a breath of air was stirring.
               "Stand just there," he said, "the light falls on the path exactly"; but as if in accordance with a wish, the light of the candle was just then extinguished.
               "No matter," he said, "I know the way; don't fear for the pitcher."
               But Delia drew a match across the floor, lighted the lantern, and followed him through the garden.
               He now waited, though he could not possibly have missed his way. He had walked it hundreds of times, by daylight, moonlight, starlight, and through stormy darkness. But he waited because he felt that Delia wished him to do so. She held the lantern low, and he filled the pitcher; then they both stood still a moment. The doctor spoke first.
               "How is our girl getting on, Delia?"
               "Well now, since she has work to her mind. Mr. Elsden was very kind to get that box for her."
               "Yes," thought the doctor, "but there's something back of that. What induced him to do it? He always has his motive." "Has she sent her stock to market yet?" he asked.
               "The berries? They are not ready yet. But she has told me her intention. She would not let herself feel at home here. Think of that! She must pay her way!"
               
               "I rather like that," said Detwiler; "it shows independence, and a consciousness of ability to make her way. I know nothing about her parentage; she has very little of any Gell that ever I saw in her. She is more like my friend Rolfe, in her character and makeup, and she grows like him. Don't you think so?"
               "I do," said Delia. There she hesitated. Then a sense of the relief it would be to know that Friend Holcombe's dearest friend should understand all came upon her. "She is like him. He was her father," she said.
               "I ought to have known it before! Why did n't you tell me?" exclaimed the doctor, half vexed, and, in spite of his suspicions, astonished beyond measure, at Delia's statement.
               "How could I tell you?"
               "Does Friend know it?"
               "He does not. But I shall tell him yet. It grows more and more likely," said Delia, gloomily.
               "Was the child born in wedlock? I am ashamed to ask it about Rolfe; but so much depends on that,—everything!"
               "What everything? She was. They kept the marriage secret; they had reasons, his were bound up in hers. They did evil and looked for good, but only evil came!"
               "But you know there was a fortune left that went begging for an heir!"
               "I have counted every thread of this web. I have seen that it is I who must add poverty to that child's portion. Homeless and poor for me! How can I bear it, Michael! I shall die under this burden."
               Detwiler stood dumb; he had heard, as it were, a cry for life, for rescue, and was motionless.
               "When I remember what he was to me," said he, after a pause, which seemed long to both of them. He stopped suddenly and looked at Delia, and a strange sense of the loneliness and desolation which he seemed to see enveloping her made him shudder. He resumed with a heavy sigh, "I think I can see what he must have been to this woman, Delia."
               "To me," she said.
               "And I understand," he continued, with difficulty suppressing a sob,—"I understand how this could have happened. Your father was alive; your church obligations bound you."
               "Make no excuse for me! Do not say you understand it! My father was alive; my church obligations did bind me; and I cheated him; I lied to the people! Friend Holcombe and his child are accursed in me. Michael! what is left for me?"
               "Silence, Delia; that is left,—that heroic virtue."
               And thus spoke the expediency of a good man.
               "O, that it were the silence of the grave!"
               "Delia, do not belie all your past by such words. You know that you could never meet more loving judges than you would find in your own house, if it could be shown that it were best they should know. You have earned the love of all these."
               "Earned it! What do you think it has been to live under that man's eyes, and see his holy life, and know that he trusts and loves me?"
               "He loves you no more worthily than you love him. Remember how happy you have been able to make his life, how he leans on you, and how strong he feels for his work, because he has you by his side in it. I do not wonder that you chose as you did, when it came to disturbing the church or letting fortune go. The time to have spoken was—"
               He was uttering his thoughts as they arose. But recalling that morning in the dairy, when he had ventured to plead Friend Holcombe's cause so boldly, and remembering how Delia had hesitated, he felt that it was not kind to remind her that she should have given him her confidence then. She understood his hesitation and said: "I was a coward, and false. There was no going back after I had taken that step, except by owning that I had taken it. I tried to serve where I could not be accepted. My punishment is to love Friend Holcombe and to see myself undeserving of the confidence he gives me, and to hear the man who shares this secret with me persecuting the church because he judges all the brethren by me!"
               "Do you mean that Trost knows this? Did he marry you?" asked the doctor, quickly, almost hopefully.
               "Yes."
               "Then you have a witness!"
               "No."
               "You have a certificate, then?"
               "I want none."
               "You do want one, and must have one," said the doctor. "Get one of him, Delia. Make him write it. It may be of the greatest consequence to you. Don't fail to do this. Circumstances may arise—"
               "I will ask him for it," said Delia quietly, interrupting him. "Let us go back to the house."
               The doctor left Friend Holcombe's garden with a pleasant jest, but as he rode towards Emerald he gave vent to an oath, which was evidence of anything but a happy state of mind. A shower of tears followed that lightning. "She has lived, poor dear, with a sword over her head all these years!" he thought.
               And so the words which had trembled for years on Delia's lips were spoken at last! She felt a calm strength, unknown before even to her, when she could say to herself of her husband's friend, "He knows it." It was as if the honor of her family had now been intrusted to the doctor's hands.
               And that feeling the doctor shared to the uttermost. The honor of that house was in his hands, to be jealously guarded. There was something to be done which seemed to give a new importance to his life. Delia Holcombe must be preserved from the evil that would arise from the discovery of those facts which she had revealed to him. The service to which he felt himself bound would never find him wavering.
               But all these years, while she had been walking in a vain show, Delia had believed that her secret was not hid from Detwiler. When she discovered that no such intelligent gaze had been upon her, that she had walked without human sympathy along that dark waste which to other eyes appeared a smooth, sun-lighted path, she shuddered.
               It was now evident to her that no soul could ever comprehend what the vanished years had given her. She had culled from them, and borne along with her on her bosom, deadly nightshade, and its poisonous fragrance was exhaled only for herself.
               He could never know,—no man, no woman could ever understand the awe with which she had watched Friend Holcombe, or with what bitter self-reproach she had received the evidences of his confiding affection.
               When Duty had spoken to her in her widowhood through Detwiler's voice, she had listened at first with alarm, then with hope, then with indignation. Had she fallen so low that she could not see through this specious temptation? Was it thus that she would seek to retrieve herself? The righteous Lord had taken her husband away. She read that fact at least by the light she had. He had sorely visited her for the compromise she had made between filial love and her love for Edward Rolfe. He had indicated his will that she should not go out from among her father's people. And when in his mercy he had shown her the work he had for her to do in the church, as its pastor's wife, she had not been able to resist what she deemed to be his pleasure. That she should ever know a second love, that she should love Friend Holcombe, was not to be thought of. But behold! Love came, kneeling softly at the door of her poor heart. Long he knocked, and patiently he waited; when at last she opened the door, she dared not look upon the angel, but stood with downcast eyes. And he came blessing her! he bound up her wounds; he poured oil upon them, not knowing what he did. He gave her wine to drink, and bread to eat. Still she was afraid. Shame, to be bound heart and spirit to this guileless life! Misery, to have inspired a confidence, a devotion, which was the finest flowering of his nature! False to the dead, she listened to this living voice, and found in it consolation and despair. And she asked herself, "Was there ever burden so heavy to bear as I have made of life?"
               Two summers ago it had seemed to her that an avenue was opening through which she might pass from her prison of existence. It was when Miss Sawyer was under their roof for summer recreation. It was the first time that Friend Holcombe had come within the sphere of a lady of fashion. Miss Sawyer was a handsome woman, cultivated in mind and manner, and a good talker. She had seen the world and could give a good account of it. The group that gathered around her during her evenings at Swatara was a charmed, a fascinated one. The preacher was not less fascinated than the children. Delia looked on. She compared this being with herself. She considered the manner of her speech, the substance thereof, the charm of her graceful acts, the grace of her slightest motion. Observing all, she felt a direful satisfaction. She could bear to know, she thought, that she had lost the heart which she never should have won. If Friend could think now with longing of a portion which was not for him, henceforth he and she stood upon one level. But how long could a satisfaction like that endure, after she clearly understood it? No! it was not possible that she should rejoice to see the light of heavenly love fading from his eyes, and another fire glowing in them. She began to pray, "Save him, good Lord! from such equality as this."
               One day the doctor came and found her praying thus. She was not in her closet on her knees, she was in her garden at work. He had seen as he came around by the north road to the house that the preacher was sitting on the front steps with Miss Sawyer, and that the lady was either reading or talking with him. And what he had seen was much more than what he heard, for Delia did not disclose her thought to him. He stayed, however, long enough to discover her mood, and before another day had ended he said to Mr. Holcombe: "Delia has a walking fever. Any other woman almost would be in her bed. An excited state of the brain, that's little short of insanity, keeps her out of it. Excuse me, but I think you had better banish Miss Sawyer."
               "Well, yes," said Friend, "if you think Delia is really ill, we must not have her burdened by any unnecessary cares. Carson, or somebody around here, will be willing to take the young woman, if she cares to stay, no doubt."
               "You are a good fellow," said the doctor, with genuine admiration. "I dare say you would never guess, if I did n't tell you, that Delia has been amusing herself by comparing her accomplishments with this young lady's, and has n't been satisfied with the result. And she thinks you are as little satisfied."
               The preacher, on whose mind the doctor's meaning slowly dawned, did not even smile at this statement.
               "I think you must be mistaken," he said; "but my dear wife must have fewer cares; if she is ill, we must persuade her to go to bed, and be nursed."
               "You won't do that while she has half a dozen patients whom she must visit daily; but get rid of Miss Sawyer."
               Mr. Holcombe did that very easily; and Delia would never forget the words of Friend, a few days after Miss Sawyer had left them, spoken as if he had read her inmost thought, and thereto responded:—
               "My wife, do you know what I am often thinking when I think of you? As the church is the bride of Christ, so are you my bride."
               And thus he had replied to that dreariest satisfaction! The cursed equality did not exist between them. And she, on whose account Friend Holcombe would long regard himself with sorrowful condemnation, sat down as it were at his feet, and bathed them with her tears.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE NEW BISHOP AND HIS BISHOPRIC.
               IT was in these days of Delia's troubled thought about Deacon Ent and Father Trost, that Bishop Heunsel died. He was an old man,—her father's successor,—and his death had long been expected.
               It seemed as if there could hardly be a question as to who must fill the place made vacant by his death. Delia had no doubt on whom the lot would fall; for who, of all preaching Mennonites, met the requirements so well: "A bishop must be blameless, vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality, apt to teach; not given to wine, no striker, not greedy of filthy lucre; but patient, not a brawler, not covetous; one that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity; (for if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the church of God?) Not a novice, lest being lifted up with pride he fall into the condemnation of the devil. Moreover, he must have a good report of them which are without; lest he fall into reproach, and the snare of the devil."
               Yet there were other preachers in the district whose names were brought forward, whose qualifications were urged. There were some who had long entertained a secret doubt concerning Friend Holcombe; they considered it very questionable service that he was rendering the church by keeping school in winter time, as had now for several years been his practice; world's wisdom was not the treasure which Mennonites desired for their children. And then, how did it happen that under his ministry such scandal was allowed as Trost was promulgating? It ought long ago to have been known what that old man meant in hurling his charges against their body as a set of hypocrites, whose doings would not bear a moment's investigation.
               But when a meeting had been called, and the people came together, and the books were distributed to the persons considered qualified to perform the duties of a bishop, the lot fell on Mr. Holcombe. In the hymn-book which he held was found the slip of paper which decided that the lot had fallen on him. The Lord's pleasure thus made known, the people were unanimous in the expression of their satisfaction.
               No man could have stood up in the congregation to give the pastoral blessing with fewer misgivings than Mr. Holcombe. No man could have witnessed with gentler smitings of conscience the evidences of satisfaction, which appeared on every side of him. Humbly, as became him, and yet with manly dignity, he received the honor and the burden. The seal was set to his ministry; he was acknowledged a faithful servant.
               Ahern and Eby, the two oldest men of the congregation, went home to dine with the new bishop on that memorable day. The names of these venerable men were associated with the settlement of Swatara and with the planting of the church. The event of the morning had unsealed the fountain of memory, and a stream poured forth. They talked to the bishop's daughter, who was now the bishop's wife, of her father, and were well pleased that the honorable mantle of her godly mother had fallen on her.
               The happy girls garnished the dinner-table with flowers and leaves, for their high festival, and dressed themselves in their Sunday gowns; and Edna put a rose in her hair, and tied a gray ribbon around the head of Rosa, and wished it was bright blue, yet told her that no mistake now she was Sawyerish.
               After dinner, when Ahern and Eby stood in the porch preparing to depart, Ahern said to Mr. Holcombe, in the slow way which became his not undignified presence: "Bishop, you have some dealings, or I should say some acquaintance, with Mr. Trost,—Father Trost, as they call him."
               "O yes, I know him," answered Mr. Holcombe. "He was a friend to Bishop Rose. Delia recollects him very well as he used to be in old times. You do, I suppose."
               "Yes, yes. I was thinking how he did n't like Bishop Heunsel over well; but if he's of your acquaint, perhaps he'll treat us hereafter a little fairer."
               "The way he goes on is outrageous, sir," said Mr. Eby, chewing his words and ejecting them with considerable force.
               "He is a violent speaker by nature," said Ahern, and the increasing gentleness of his voice and manner seemed a rebuke of his more zealous brother. "But now I'm thinking he'll be minded of Miss Dely's feather, and just keep to his own side of the fence."
               "We have certainly nothing to fear," said Mr. Holcombe, looking around in the lofty way of conscious integrity, and answering so for all his people. "We will just hope that he will soon be able to see with more charitable eyes."
               "O, how grand he is," thought Delia, looking at him with wifely pride, "and to think how a word could smite him!"
               "I don't know how you're going to stop him, sir," said Mr. Eby, speaking more mildly than before. "Bein' reviled we must not revile again; but it does 'pear as if somebody oughter just speak out and ask him what he means. Long as I've lived, Friend Hulcum, I've never knowed a preacher to charge such things agin us as he brings. Truce-breakers, deceivers of the very elec',—that's what he said agin us no longer back than last Sunday. He meant us. Everybody knowed it. Pretendin' to hold ourselves up for patterns, and doin' in secret what we would be hooted at for doin' if it was known agin us. I declare, Mr. Hulcum, I thought my old blood had got cooled off considable, but it biled."
               "Did you hear him say it, Mr. Eby? We must not trust too far to hearsay in such a matter." Mr. Holcombe glanced at his wife as he spoke. She would not fail to grieve at the jeopardy in which Deacon Ent had placed himself. Father Trost had no doubt discovered that August had a divided heart, and was taking this rough method to end his courtship, one way or the other.
               Any good woman, he supposed, must have been as much affected as Delia was to hear a charge like this brought against the Zion she loved.
               "I did not hear it myself, sir," Eby answered. "But it's the talk all about. Everybody knows it. Folks have got to runnin' after him, and the more they run the worse he talks. They're always expectin' to hear something worse I reckon. Bein' a friend, Bishop Hulcum, could n't you bring him to reason, and make him explain; for if there is any matter such as he declares afoot, we oughter know it."
               "Just so. I will speak to Father Trost, brethren. I heard a rumor of the kind before, but there was n't anything I could take hold of. I will speak to Father Trost."
               "I must speak to him, I see plainly," he said afterwards to his wife. "I can get nothing from August. He keeps out of my way, and gives me no opportunity to say a word."
               "But if this is August's business," said Delia, and there she stopped.
               "I shall betray no man. But we must understand Mr. Trost. You said we should be ruined when I told you how the deacon was tempted. I do not fear that; but it is a tribulation to be held up to the scorn and the scoffing of the ungodly, as we are held up by him. I tried to think that the mischief was overstated; but Father Eby is right, and I will go directly to Trost, and discover, if I can, what he means."
               And because it was so evident that he would attend to this business at once, Delia deferred the walk she had proposed to herself, and the request which she had told the doctor she would make. Certainly the present was not a favorable time to go to Father Trost for her certificate.
               The fact was unquestionable that ever since the death of Mr. Guildersleeve the preaching of Trost had assumed a more marked denunciatory tone. There was a force in his voice and manner, and a rude strength in his argument, which was felt to be searching as a scorching wind by the undisciplined and the weak of his congregation. The return of Guildersleeve to the Mennonite body, and his reception by the brethren, had excited his surprise. He had looked with confidence for the day when he should himself proclaim that old man as a brand saved by his hands from the burning. Instead, at the last, Friend Holcombe had been sent for to show the reprobate his way out of the world!
               When Mary heard her grandfather preach that sermon which was now being talked about everywhere, she listened with the feeling that every word of it was addressed to herself; and he knew that she listened thus. But no manner or degree of emotion exhibited by her, or by any other, could have stopped him when once launched on that tide.
               "Tempted all round," he had exclaimed on that occasion, "what shall we do to save ourselves?" and having asked the question, he paused till every soul waited for his answer. "Well!" he cried, "there's more than one ship stands with its door wide open and its cap'n ready to pick you up. But don't you believe there's more than one ark bound for the top of Ararat. They'll deceive you, brethren! they'll secure your shipwreck, sisters! I've knowed some,"—again he paused, and leaned against the rude desk, and looked around him till the terror of his searching glance was felt,—"I've knowed some as fair to look on as any one of you, sisters, who've lived a lie for years an' years, and no prospect of a change,—O no, 'cause there's no chance of their being found out? They'll tell you, if anybody goes along with them, that they must live by the laws, or they'll have none of 'em. They don't stand by what they say. I tell you, they break their laws and mend 'em agin, and it's no business of ourn. O no! it's no business of ourn. But, brethren and sisters, we won't put our girls in such tight places that they'll be running from us on the sly, forard and back, keeping up a fair show afore the world when they've lost their membership with us, if there's any meaning in the regulations of the church. We won't have our young men decoying others into what I'll call flat ruin. For, if you get a character to shilly-shallying and calling white black, and round about that way to suit themselves, ain't it all over with that man or woman? Do you want to have dealings with the like of them? I don't call names, though 't would be dreadful easy; but I'll just say, the secrets of all hearts shall be revealed."
               It was this passage of his sermon which was repeated from mouth to mouth with such comments as "That was a hard rap for the Mennonites," "He knows more than he tells," "It'll have to come out of him yet"; and so the people followed him, in increasing numbers; the itching ears were eager to hear what he would say next.
               Mr. Holcombe saw Father Trost coming out of Mr. Elsden's office one afternoon, not long after he had formed this determination to speak with him.
               He stopped his horse, for he was driving Sorrel, and invited the old man to ride.
               Trost looked as if he doubted the propriety of accepting the invitation, and at last answered gruffly that he did his travelling on foot nowadays. "When you git to be as old as I am," he said, "you'll be keerful of such temptations to laziness."
               "I think we shall have rain though, within half an hour," said Friend.
               "Well then, let it come. I'm not as afeared of a drop of water as the whiskey-drinkers are." The old man laughed, and struck his strong staff on the ground with as much vehemence as he was wont to display in bringing down his fist to emphasize the gospel when he preached.
               "It is a great thing to be built after your pattern, Father Trost. There is n't such a promise of vigor in the young plants," said Mr. Holcombe, perhaps not unconsciously approaching him at his weakest point.
               "I've got the start of my rheumatiz at last I think,—left it behind me in Arkansas," returned the old man, well pleased that his iron frame should have this praise, though it did come from a Mennonite. "It was worth going out there to git red of."
               Trost's voice had now such friendliness in it, that Mr. Holcombe felt that he might speak to him out of the fulness of his heart, directly; so he said: "Brother, I wish you would get into this wagon, and let me take you the way you are going. From all I hear, the folks around actually believe that there's enmity between you and me. I think we would be doing our Master good service if we spent the day in driving about the country just to show them how unjust to us and to our cause such a suspicion is.'
               "Now what do you mean?" asked Trost, answering the invitation to ride by leaning against the buggy seat. He was prepared for the bishop, and looked, in spite of his question, as if in no doubt as to his meaning.
               "You and I have n't any difficulty that Christian men should not have, Father Trost?"
               
               "What do you mean by that?" repeated the old man.
               "I mean," said Friend Holcombe, still speaking patiently, though he now perceived the spirit with which Trost had replied to him,—"I mean that people are beginning to take up your preaching and interpret your sharp sayings against the ungodly, as if they were directed against us. They say you call our people covenant-breakers,—I don't know what,—for I have tried to forget it. I thought they had misunderstood you, and made a particular application which you did not intend."
               "I generally try to make myself understood, Hulcum," said Trost, bringing his hand down heavily on the wagon seat, and closing his mouth after the words, as if he had uttered what would not be recalled, and, at the same time, looking at Mr. Holcombe as if he would have him understand that he could not deceive him, and it was best he should endeavor to do so no longer.
               "If they did understand you then, and you have any charge to bring against us, am I not your brother in Christ? am I not at least trying to serve my Master? You know we are not without the means of righting any wrong wrought in our body. We do not hesitate to purge any iniquity."
               "But when it comes to cutting off the right hand, or plucking out the right eye, Hulcum,—that comes hard, does n't it?"
               The question was an insult as Trost proposed it, but Friend answered, quietly: "The right hand has been cut off, sir, before now, and the right eye plucked out. I trust the gracious Lord would not withhold the strength that would enable me to perform this service to him and to our church, as often as it might be required for the maintenance of our integrity as a Christian brotherhood."
               "I am an old man," said Father Trost, speaking with great deliberation, and looking up towards the gray sky from which a fine, cold mist was now falling fast. "But I have n't lost my faculties. I don't talk without knowing what I am saying. I reckoned you'd know as well as I could tell you what I meant. I give you to understand if I can teach my young people better gospil than they'll git out of your people's living, I shall do it."
               "But I tell you plainly that you are speaking in an unknown tongue to me," said Mr. Holcombe.
               "So much the worse, then. I am not set to watch over your sheep, though. Good day, sir"; and with these words, Trost actually put an end to the conversation by walking back to Mr. Elsden's office.
               "Then I must see Ent. He is really bitter against us," said Mr. Holcombe; and through the chilling mist he drove up the mountain road. But he did not succeed in finding the deacon, who had gone away from home to exhibit his stock at a cattle show, and might not return for several days. There was nothing further to be done in that direction, then, at present. But no lack of work elsewhere. To this work Mr. Holcombe directed his attention, thinking, meanwhile, how much more clearly Delia had foreseen the results of the deacon's unfortunate attachment than he had done.
               Going back into Mr. Elsden's office, Father Trost said to the superintendent, "He's in a tight place."
               "Holcombe? was it he you were talking with?"
               "Yes. He thinks I've been a leetle severe on him."
               "Surely you have n't anything against so good a man as he is?" said Mr. Elsden, looking a little amused, and somewhat surprised.
               "No—no; nothing personal. But he don't like to have his folks showed up."
               "His family? I thought there never was so perfect a woman as Mrs. Holcombe. And the girls,—surely you have n't any quarrel with such pretty young things!"
               "I have n't no quarrel, sir, with any man living," said Trost, who no doubt regarded himself as entitled to all the blessings, including those promised to peacemakers.
               "But what do you find against these harmless folks as a body, if that is what you mean?"
               Mr. Elsden, of course, understood perfectly well the preacher's meaning, and was merely curious to learn how well he could keep the secret of which he had himself become accidentally possessed.
               "I find their laws are like a sieve to some of 'em. They run right through 'em, sir!"
               "Is that an exceptional course of conduct? don't you find that most laws are as a sieve to the lawless, who yet have reasons for keeping up a show of obedience?" asked Mr. Elsden.
               "Not in high places. I shall speak my mind. He tried to git me to call names. I don't call names, understand. Them the coat fits may put it on. I jest want 'em to know how they look outside to other folks."
               "But why not tell Holcombe outright,—seems to me that would be fair,—and let him look after his young folks, if they are likely to run wild?"
               "His young folks! good gracious! He 'd have to look nearer home than his young folks!" exclaimed Trost.
               "You don't mean to say that he understands what you have been saying, and would like to have you think he did not!"
               Mr. Trost drummed on the superintendent's desk, nodded his head, looked wise, and said nothing.
               "I should n't suppose there was a soul living could bring a charge against Mrs. Holcombe."
               "Nobody has, sir,—nobody has. Nobody's going to," said Trost, a little startled, and yet enjoying Mr. Elsden's unconscious proximity to the fact.
               "But you—Surely, Mr. Trost, it is n't Mrs. Holcombe who has been playing fast and loose, as you say, with the church regulations! surely you don't mean that!"
               "I call no names, sir, but I'm a preacher of the truth, and I'll not lie by giving the right hand of fellowship to a parcel of deceivers. They've been making Hulcum their bishop—"
               "So I hear, and a right good selection it seemed to me."
               "What would be gall to some, sir, if they was right-minded, is honey to others. Suppose, sir, there was things about this business of yourn which you would n't have come to Mr. Boyd's knowledge nohow; how would you feel to have him a heaping honors on you,—what you and he thought was honors, say, no matter how little other folks might vally 'em?"
               As this was precisely the fact concerning the Elsden and Boyd relationship, Mr. Elsden was rather startled by the question; but he recovered himself so quickly that even the lynx-eyed old man who was interrogating him did not perceive his confusion.
               "I should say, the less of such honors the better all round," said he.
               "So would any decent, honest man. Very well; that's all. This bids fair to be a nasty drizzle, but I'll be going. If you hear that I've been preaching pretty severe, you'll know I had my text with plenty of references handy."
               "Yes, and that you can keep a secret, Mr. Trost," said Mr. Elsden, accompanying the old man to the door.
               The remark pleased him so much that, as he was about to step out, he looked back and said: "P'r'aps you are such good friends with 'em down to Hulcum's you'll be thinking I've said too much about 'em."
               "You have said nothing," answered Mr. Elsden. "As to being such good friends, I know very little about them. One of my young men was showing me a little drawing done by the minister's oldest daughter, and I got a few paints and pencils for her which seemed to please them; I have been down once or twice since then; that is about the extent of my acquaintance with them."
               "What d' ye think o' that girl? Is she like anybody you ever saw before?" asked Trost, leaning against the door, and looking at the superintendent, and speaking in a cautious voice.
               "She looks like her mother," said Mr. Elsden, with the utmost simplicity.
               "Who is her mother?" asked Trost, with a vulgar, quizzical, mysterious smile, not lost on this most upright gentleman who had excited it.
               "Why, Mrs. Holcombe, of course."
               The old man laughed aloud.
               "You had better not say that in these regions," said he. "No, sir! Edny is an adopted daughter. Living with 'em it's going on about three year now, I expect.
               "Do you tell me so?" said Elsden.
               "Do you tell me that you have lived right here and never heerd of that afore?" Mr. Trost now had doubts of Mr. Elsden, very decidedly. Mr. Elsden dismissed the doubts for him speedily by saying: "I assure you I have known almost nothing of those people or their doings until within a few weeks, when, as I said before, one of my young men was speaking of this girl."
               "You made a wonderful hit then if you think she favors Dely Hulcum; I think so myself. Well, good morning."
               "Call again, Father Trost," said Mr. Elsden; and he went back to his desk, saying to himself: "The old slanderer! he has evidently pledged himself to keep that secret, yet it is oozing out of him in a way to make trouble for those people. I shall serve them in a different way from that."
               Taking from a pigeon-hole a roll of papers, he slipped off the red cord which held them together and spread them out before him. While he was thus engaged, John Edgar came in.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE LOVER RECEIVES HIS COMMISSION.
               JOHN EDGAR'S visit was not expected at that hour, though, since his last visit, the superintendent would not have been surprised to see him at any time, night or day. Mr. Elsden had, however, only just now made his rounds, and had seen him busy in the shop; and now he had his coat on, and looked as if he had stopped work. In fact, the terrible thirst which now and then took John to Emerald and hurled him into an excess out of which he came with remorse and self-loathing, was urging him to go down to the station and call on Mr. Max Boyd,—that young gentleman being now at work there, in the bank which his brother had established for his own accommodation in transacting business with his men and with the world beyond Swatara.
               When Mr. Elsden came into the shop, John convicted himself of having attempted self-deception. There was no reason why he should call on Mr. Max Boyd, none why he should go to Emerald. Afraid to remain by himself, he hastily donned his coat and cap, and taking with him the drill upon which he had been secretly expending so much thought and time of late, he hurried away to the superintendent's office. He would find out now what Mr. Elsden had meant when he began to talk about Edna's parentage, and was interrupted.
               "I was thinking of you," said Mr. Elsden, understanding at a glance that John had his sufficient reason for seeking him, and glad that he had inspired him with confidence to come, if, indeed, his errand was other than a business one. "Look here," he continued, "I found these drawings among some old papers. Perhaps Miss Edna would find them of service. They were made by a gentleman whom you never saw—"
               "Rolfe," said John, reading the name pencilled beneath the drawings. "I have heard of him; she lent me a book that belonged to him."
               "Ah! Miss Edna knows about him? She will like these drawings all the more, then. There's a variety, you see, from engines up—or down. That pine-tree looks as if it had stood for its portrait. Take them along with you. Tell her I found them among some old office papers."
               Mr. Elsden tied them up again, and pushed the roll towards John. "Well, what have you there? Something for me?"
               "That's IT," answered John, putting the roll in his pocket, and exhibiting the drill.
               "And you're going to bore through the earth with it, eh? Let me caution you, in the first place, though I believe I have said it before, keep your secret. It will be worth quite as much to you, if it's worth anything, if you say nothing about it, but just experiment for a while. Have you tried it?"
               Edgar answered by producing a circular piece of rock, four inches in diameter, and five or six inches in length.
               "You drilled that out with the engine to back you?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "That is an innocent-looking instrument to do such a thing. And you really think that, with an adequate degree of force, we could get to the bottom of the Pit Hole mystery?"
               "Yes, sir, and of Hook too. There's coal there, sir, by the ton."
               "I have no doubt of it," answered Mr. Elsden; "but, as I told Mr. Boyd, it will cost a fortune to mine it. We have no reason for regretting that we opened that Ridge gulf again."
               "No," said John, "but it always seemed to me we went at Hook wrong end first. There's more than one way of getting through a piece of woods." John said this as though he rather doubted how it would be received; indeed, he had reason to doubt.
               But Mr. Elsden was in the friendliest mood. "I had some of the best judges here prospecting before we went to work," said he, desirous that John should understand. "We proceeded according to advice. That's all I know about it."
               But though Mr. Elsden spoke with perfect naturalness of voice and manner, it had cost him a great deal more than his year's salary was worth to transfer the mining operations from Hook to the Ridge. He had been obliged to direct and compel a somewhat obstinate public opinion.
               "I felt that we were making a vault for Mr. Boyd's money," he said; "it would be safe there, to be sure, for nobody would ever be able to get at it again. Your drill will come into use in Hook, I believe. But take your time about that; for the Ridge, according to all appearance, will keep us busy for twenty years to come."
               "Twenty years is a long time, sir. I shall be getting on towards forty. They say, if a man has n't made his fortune at that age, he may as well give it up."
               "I am past forty," answered Mr. Elsden. "A fortune is a very slippery thing indeed. You may have it before you are forty, but how are you going to make sure of keeping it, unless you are willing to make a Jew of yourself and live in a nutshell, as no gentleman and no generous man could consent to do. I have seen three fortunes of my own washed overboard while I was busy looking after the interests of other people."
               "I hope the next time, sir, you will look out for yourself."
               "It would seem as if I must have learned how to do that by this time." Mr. Elsden's way of saying this emboldened John to make a remark which showed the superintendent how far he had succeeded in his endeavor to make the young man consider him a friend.
               "It never seemed to me, sir, that this was exactly the place for you,—such a rough set of men as we are to live amongst." And much impressed was John by the answer he received:—
               "My business is to pay my debts before I die. If Swatara will help me to do that, I shall be grateful to Swatara."
               Thinking what it was for a fellow like him to have drawn an acknowledgment like that from a gentleman like Mr. Elsden, John exclaimed that it was a cursed thing to be poor.
               "Not at all," said the superintendent. "I have thought of you with a sort of envy since you have bestirred yourself and promised such good things."
               John's eyes flashed. Then he suddenly recollected what his purpose had been an hour ago,—to go to Emerald and drink himself drunk! His face clouded with gloom, his eyes were cast down. "I am a poor stick," said he.
               Mr. Elsden assured him that nothing could be more becoming in youth, nothing more beautiful, than humility.
               "I am honest, I know. I'll do what I can; but you do not know all I have to struggle against, sir," said John, almost crying. Mr. Elsden liked pluck, courage, daring, but he was patient with this tearful, self-depreciating mood. It seemed to show him that Edgar would be a less difficult coadjutor than he had supposed.
               He had a strong tonic for him, and now administered it.
               "I have been thinking a good deal, John, about that young lady we take so much interest in," he said, very cheerfully. "I would not like to go out and say all I think about her to everybody I chanced to meet."
               John looked pleased; he knew that Mr. Elsden referred, for one thing, to the admiration Edna had excited even in him; but then, besides, there was that mystery which he had hinted at, that secret concealed from her to her hurt!
               "You are quite willing, sir, to tell me now all that you have been thinking about her?" said he.
               "Quite; those events which came so unexpectedly to my knowledge made me suspect at once, as I still suspect, that she is actually the heir to a large property."
               "I was going to ask you about that, sir," said John.
               "I admire your self-control, that you have not followed me about like my shadow in order to find an opportunity for asking it. I am sure it would have been justifiable."
               More than he could express, it pleased John to be praised for self-control. He smiled.
               "What was the name, if you please?" said he.
               Mr. Elsden hesitated.
               "I do not know that I am quite wise in telling you. Even dead men's names must not be handled too freely; but I have confidence in you, Edgar; the name was Rolfe."
               "By thunder!" exclaimed John. "That is the name in those books and on those drawings."
               "Exactly."
               "They must know, then, about it at Holcombe's?"
               "It would seem as if they must."
               "Do you suppose, sir, they are a party to—to—keeping her out of her rights?"
               "I hardly know what to suppose about it. Things have a queer look; but there's one thing John, you must make up your mind to be cool about it, if you go into this investigation. It may be more difficult than either of us supposes. But I think you will see that without my suggestion. You certainly ought to be trusted to look after your own affairs." Mr. Elsden was evidently apologizing for having offered his counsel.
               "Miss Edna was brought up from Hollandsburgh to old Annie Gell," said John, reflecting. "She has told me about it. Her mother died at Ancaster, I believe."
               "It is no very difficult thing to carry a child from one place to another," said Mr. Elsden. "There may have been good reasons for her being born there even though it was not her mother's home. Rolfe, certainly, did not live down there."
               John sat silently thinking. Mr. Elsden broke in upon his meditation.
               "If I were you," said he, "I should consider my fortune made."
               "Suppose I go to Mr. Holcombe, and ask him outright for the truth!" exclaimed John, looking up, and waiting encouragement to take that step at once.
               "I really suppose that you would gain nothing by it. I have reason to think he knows as little about this business as he seems to know. I think it not improbable, moreover, that Edna's mother may be living yet. She may have married again. If she belonged to the poor Mennonites, and was persuaded into a secret marriage, it would perhaps have seemed impossible to her to acknowledge the relation after Rolfe's sudden death. It is the most plausible theory I have been able to form from the facts under observation. But, as to your Edna's being related to that old woman who took care of her, I don't believe one word of it. I can say that without having seen her, and merely from observation of facts."
               "What facts?" asked John, stupidly; but Mr. Elsden expected him to ask.
               "Merely those before us,—that Edna is made quite in the fashion of a lady, and the rest."
               Then John was set upon a new consideration of that great fact, and the others were summarily dismissed, because of inferior importance, as "the rest."
               What were they?
               Merely that, on the death of Annie Gell, Edna, at the old woman's request, had been brought by the doctor to Mr. Holcombe's house, and there had been received as a daughter, and promised a home. Doctor Detwiler then might be able to throw some light on this business. John was thinking of the doctor, planning a talk with him, when Mr. Elsden said, briskly, intending to put an end to the interview: "Well, sir, you have your hands full. If you manage rightly with that drill, and all the rest, anybody might venture on a prophecy in regard to your future."
               "I thank you, sir."
               "I did not understand that your drill was so nearly completed," continued the superintendent, in the same animated tone. "I recommend the north side of Pit Hole, just above the gully towards the east, to your observations. I was down there lately, and I think I saw indications of ore. Perhaps I was mistaken, but that is our business,—yours and mine, I mean. We'll not start any extra talk about Pit Hole; it has made enough already."
               "And a regular pit it was, was n't it, sir, for the party you bought it of?"
               "I am afraid so. I took it off their hands, because there was n't another man who would give a bid for it. If there should be iron, why, that is what was never asked for of Pit Hole."
               Mr. Elsden had not promised that it was a thing that never should be asked for, when he came forward to the relief of the ruined company, and took the mine off their hands at a price which would have seemed to decide its worthlessness. They had proved, as he said, that no coal was there; and coal was the thing they wanted, or, at least, the thing they had looked for. If he had chosen to incur ridicule, and run the risk of finding nothing, that was his business. Five years had passed since he made his purchase. It was really a matter of indifference to him whether Edgar ever experimented with his drill among the rocks; but he thought he saw that the time was not far distant when it would be safe to discover iron there, and therefore he invited him to make the discovery.
               "If you should find anything worth while," said he, "I would make you my partner. One of my greatest wants here is a young man I can trust."
               "If there is anything to be found, sir, trust me to find it for you. Or, if there's anything to be done, let me do it," said John, with enthusiasm.
               "Very well," returned the superintendent. "There are two things, though, which, let me tell you, I have always admired in Mr. Boyd,—his confidence in himself, and his reticence. He never boasts; but you see how he usually succeeds in hitting the thing he aims at. He startled people, going up so like a rocket, as they said; they prophesied he would come down like a stick. He has n't done it yet."
               "And never will!" said Edgar; for the man whom of all men he most admired was Christopher Boyd.
               "I will look about among those rocks the first thing to-morrow morning," said he. "Nobody ever goes that way. If I find anything, you are the man I shall report to."
               "If there's anything forthcoming, you shall be my partner; hold me to that," said Mr. Elsden.
               And when an elderly gentleman says anything like that to a young man, a great deal is implied. The superintendent had probably discovered that he stood in need of John Edgar's assistance.
               When John left the office, he remembered his temptation of a few hours past with disgust. He had accepted every thought, every suggestion, that had fallen from the superintendent's lips. Yes! for him he would search out the secrets of nature. The rocks should be laid open, and he would discover Edna's parentage.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               A SPECIAL PROVIDENCE.
               BUT the question which John Edgar would have asked of Edna was delayed, and that by an event which made it probable that a long time must elapse before he could ask it.
               Sore sorrow fell, in an hour when it was least looked for, on Bishop Holcombe's house; and the tidings seemed more evil than any ever carried about before among the miners' wives and children.
               Rosa had gone across the creek one afternoon by the foot-bridge, and had not come back. That bridge was the one which Bishop Rose had laid with his own hands; it was the great trunk of a pine-tree, with a planed upper surface to which a hand-rail had been attached, and by it all foot-passengers crossed to the preacher's house, while drivers and horsemen crossed the creek among the shallows farther up the stream.
               Rain had fallen in the morning, but in the afternoon the clouds had broken, and the sun come forth, and Delia had then sent Rosa to inquire after a neighbor's sick child. Hours passed on; the child did not return, and Delia became anxious. As evening approached she walked down to the bridge, and then across it, and stood on the further side looking up and down, and doubting which path to take. Finally she decided on that which she supposed her child must have taken; but as she was about to go on, she heard a shout, or rather a cry, and looking down the stream, she saw Max Boyd advancing. He carried a bundle in his arms.
               "O, is it you?" he cried, as if his breath at every word would fail him. "I found her—down there—in the cove. She must have fallen—from the bridge!"
               Delia stood still. It seemed for a moment as if she had not comprehended what he had said. Then, with a suddenness which seemed almost fierce, she caught the poor little wilted flower from his arms, and for a moment stood still gazing at her.
               "Madam!" he begged, "let me—carry her for you,—pray, do let me!"
               "The doctor!" she gasped.
               Maxwell's horse was browsing under the trees where he had left it when he leaped down the bank, to discover the body lying among the lilies and the reeds. He rode down to Emerald almost as fast as steam could have carried him, and found the doctor in his office, just come back, after twenty-four hours of hard driving and hard work. It took but one instant to awaken him to a full understanding of the tidings Maxwell brought, and one other to send him on towards Swatara.
               Delia and Edna were bending over the lifeless body as if seeking to reanimate the clay which had forever lost its quickening spirit, when he entered the house.
               "Here is Friend Holcombe's child," said Delia, looking up as he came in.
               From her voice he knew he need not tell her that her labor was in vain.
               The doctor went to the bedside, Edna giving place to him. He stooped down and for a moment bent over little Rosa; then he kissed her face and stood still. When Edna saw that, she went away, and left the doctor and Mrs. Holcombe alone. She understood that all was over, that nothing more was to be done.
               The neighbors came to the house next day, old and young, men and women, little children also. It seemed as if they had all dropped their occupations as soon as the sad news reached them, that they might go down to the bishop's house,—to dear Friend Holcombe's house,—and give their tears, and offer their assistance.
               The mother of Rosa received them all. She showed them her child. She said some things which the poor people would always remember as words spoken by the minister's wife in her great affliction. Until her husband should come she must perform every duty. In their way, they said that it was incredible this lovely life should be torn from existence in an instant,—that it was impossible,—not to be endured.
               Delia said not so. She stood within a cloud before Him who had taken her treasure away, and her secret thought was for the Lord alone.
               Doctor Detwiler went for Friend Holcombe that night, following him who had gone up into the mountain bearing good tidings, with these evil.
               "She has done her work for us, Friend," he said; "she has preached her gospel in its purity. Our darling drew out the best there was from all of us. O brother, I will not insult you by trying to comfort you."
               But Friend Holcombe was to be comforted. He said continually, "Blessed be the Lord who gave us our child."
               People who saw him when he returned to his house never forgot how he not only bore his own sorrow, but strove also to comfort his wife. After he came she seemed to feel that her only safety was in silence, for rebellion was in her heart. Her own grief she could have borne; but to see her husband robbed of the dear child who had been rest to him in weariness, and light in darkness, and an unfailing source of deep content! The hand of the Almighty had been laid where she felt the touch like a sword.
               When Friend said to her: "The Lord was very gracious when he sent Edna to make a place in your heart for herself. You will not feel now that she is taking our little daughter's place, for you loved her before. May God spare her to you!" she answered, "We have lost our child."
               "Yes," he said, "her sweet presence is lost,—it is gone; and if we had the hope of her delightful company in this life only,—we should be miserable. But it is not so;—we shall go to her."
               Vain were his consolations; Delia ceased to weep and lament, but not to mourn. And so heavily was her mourning spirit burdened, that when he was about to leave home again on his pastoral business, Mr. Holcombe went to the doctor's office and said to Detwiler: "Delia does not sleep, she don't eat anything, she don't talk any. Ever since our—loss, she has been in a state that troubles me. You must do something for her, Michael."
               "There will soon be a reaction; I am waiting for it," said the doctor.
               "There must, or she will die," answered Friend. "You must do something for her; she must be brought out of this state."
               "I think," said Detwiler, after a few moments, which appeared to be moments of reflection, but were in fact moments of hesitation,—"I think, Friend, it is more for you than for herself that she grieves."
               "I have suspected that! Tell her then—go to-day and tell her—that in all this affliction there is nothing more painful to me than that she should think so poorly of my Christian hope and faith, as to suppose that I have assumed the composure which it has pleased God to give me. She must not think that I steady myself only by remembering that I am the pastor of this people. Tell her I have tested the truth of the promise that as my day is my strength shall be. She will believe you."
               The doctor went to see Mrs. Holcombe that afternoon. Edna was sitting with Delia, and when she saw that he was coming she rose, took a book from the book-shelf, and as she passed by Delia stroked the hair from her forehead, and kissed her, as she might have kissed old Annie Gell, and then without saying a word went up stairs. There was a word which she would have liked to speak,—a name which Delia had not heard pronounced since the voice of her child had perished; yet perhaps not because it was difficult for her to utter it, but because the sound might be unwelcome—she left it unsaid.
               "Friend is n't at home," said Delia, as if it could only be her husband that the doctor had come to visit. "Mr. Castle has had another turn."
               "Yes," he answered, sitting down beside her; "poor Castle is in a bad way. There is so much trouble in this world, Delia, that the best thing we can do, I find, is to accept the portion given us. Whichever way we turn, there is no escaping sorrow."
               Why should he say these things to her? Delia made a slight gesture of impatience. "Michael, I understand all that," she said.
               "Are you sure, Delia?" he answered. "It is more and more a comfort to me that we had our darling to lose."
               "Do you not see that it is n't for myself that I mourn,—not for one moment?" she replied. "But to see Friend, and know that his heart is torn! To be left here with Edna, and see Rosa lost to him! The bolt of God's wrath has fallen on me. You will never know what those two children were to me,—how I have held them off as lives which I must not love too well or come too near. He has tried to comfort me by saying that God sent this child at a time when it was possible for her and Rosa to love each other like sisters, so that there should always seem to be a link between us two! I cannot bear it."
               "Delia, it is what you must bear."
               She seemed as much startled by these words as if she had not before realized the necessity of the case.
               "I must," she acknowledged; and she bowed her head. "I must. You are right."
               "Then you can."
               "Show me how I can."
               "You know the consequences if you do not."
               "Yes; a bishop and a church disgraced."
               "Do you mean to kill yourself with these reproaches?" exclaimed Detwiler. "The whole country is witness to the value of your good example as a Christian wife and mother, and as a public servant, moreover. Though I was in the dark when I urged the suit of this saint, I—"
               "Be still," cried Delia, and she hid her face. After many moments she looked up again. "If he had been taken away I could have borne it, because—because, Michael, he has become more than my life to me. I can say it without injustice to—to—"
               "Yes, you may," said the doctor. "I acknowledge the step was the worst that a good woman could have taken. But, Delia, you took the step. And God gave you little Rosa. Remember, that dear child made Friend Holcombe's life beautiful to him; so beautiful that it always must be beautiful, for he can never lose her. Remember how her presence consecrated this house,—filled it with sweet thoughts of her. Do not grieve that she was given, or that she was taken. But do that which you are bound to do, maintain the honor of the church and your own honor."
               "Act out my lie to the end,—till the whirlwind has left me desolate!"
               "Be just to yourself, and to the minister of this people; to your children,—to this rare girl, who will be a blessing to you, if you will but let her. Be just to your people; this which you have borne so long,—it would actually seem treason to all the sacred relations you hold, if you should fail to bear it to the end."
               Delia rose and stood. "I have lost my light," she said, despairingly; "are you speaking for the Devil, Michael?"
               "For yourself, and all you love best, Delia. People who have lived as long as you and I have do not need so much hope and faith as simple courage to hold on, to endure. This poor makeshift is all I look for, for myself. Endure."
               The doctor had endeavored to keep her mind steadily on the fact that the time had passed for leaving the church, or for formally returning to it, persuaded that she would sooner recover her self-possession, and once more stand fast, if she saw that there was nothing for her to do but to keep the ground which she had held so long. She was at last as much impressed by this fact, he perceived, as if she had never been convinced of it before.
               In her present state of mind, he thought it best not to ask her whether she had spoken yet to Mr. Trost in reference to the certificate he had advised her to obtain from him. If she had not secured it, she was just now in no condition even to think of it.
               "There was another,"—Delia reflected when she was alone again,—"another who found no place for repentance, though he sought it carefully and with tears. My spirit is overwhelmed within me. My heart within me is desolate. Hear me speedily, O Lord; my spirit faileth; hide not thy face from me, lest I be like them that go down into the pit."
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               AN UNLOOKED-FOR CONSOLER.
               MARY TROST went down to visit afflicted Mrs. Holcombe.
               The trouble that had befallen the bishop's family was still on everybody's mind. The preacher and his wife had so identified themselves with the unfortunate, the suffering, and the afflicted, that now, when they were themselves in trouble, everybody was impressed with the necessity of saying some soothing word, or performing some soothing deed. But memorable was the day on which Mary Trost went to visit Mrs. Holcombe.
               Delia was alone in the house. Doors and windows stood open. A sweet perfume of flowers was on the air. The stir made by the breeze, and the monotonous song of the locusts keeping up a constant accompaniment to whatever lively bird-tone, made the silence which environed the preacher's house still more impressive to Mary as she approached. She had descended from the region of stillness as profound, but it had not impressed her as did this.
               The two women had not met since the funeral of Guildersleeve. When Delia saw Mary coming she was reminded of that funeral, and of the conversation they had then held.
               She answered the knock at the door, agitated at heart, but externally calm. Mary on the contrary was excited, and ready to burst into tears.
               "How dreadful sudden!" she exclaimed; and she fell on Delia's neck and kissed her.
               But Delia received her embrace with so little perceptible emotion, with such apparent tranquillity of mind and body, that the girl recovered her self-possession as by a shock.
               "It was good of you to come down, Mary," she said. "I thought you would come. I am so glad to see you."
               Mary, disconcerted still by this composure, answered with difficulty, that she had not come to the funeral because Father Trost had been suffering from one of his attacks of rheumatism, and would not let her out of his sight.
               "I was so disappointed not to come," she said. "I hoped you would n't think hard of our staying away. Grandpa was bound hand and foot. I expect everybody was here but us. To-day I made up my mind that I could n't stay away any longer. But not that I expected there was anything I could do for you, Mrs. Hulcum, with all Swatara to run and see what was wanted."
               "Nothing is wanted, Mary,—nothing but resignation," said Delia.
               "Father said this morning, laying on his bed, that he believed Friend Hulcum had all the Scripture promises to comfort him."
               "Yes," said Delia, quickly, "he has!"
               "But I know it is hard to lay hold on 'em so as to get the good. We want what we've lost,—we don't want a promise. That was what I felt about my mother."
               "I am afraid you are right. But tell your father from me, that I believe his prayers have been answered already. My husband is wonderfully sustained. Your father has known what it is to lose dear children, Mary. It is something not to be talked about."
               "And that is a reason why I hated to come. Such a wound does n't bear dressing very often..... I heard say there never was such a funeral in Swatara district. It would be strange if people did n't know they never had or could have a kinder friend or teacher than Bishop Hulcum."
               In giving Friend his pastoral title, Mary had performed an act of civility which must never be expected of her grandfather.
               Delia now rose, went to the bureau which stood in one corner of the room, and took from one of the drawers a scrap of paper. "See," she said, showing it to Mary, "this is like our dear child."
               It was one of the drawings Edna had made of Rosa. She had succeeded in making a good likeness,—a wonderful likeness, it seemed to the eyes now bent upon it, examining the features one by one.
               "She has made another in colors," Delia said.
               "You have done everything for that girl. How amazed Annie Gell would be to see her, Mrs. Hulcum! And such a comfort now!"
               "We do think that she was sent to us by Divine Providence."
               "And such a good, kind act of you! Providence will reward it, and make her like a child to you, I'm sure."
               With her eyes on the picture of her child, Delia said: "Mary, I have thought of you a great many times since Mr. Guildersleeve's funeral."
               Mary's face flushed; she had not expected that on this visit of condolence that awkward subject would be introduced. And yet she experienced a certain degree of relief, now that it was.
               "Have you?" she said, gently; and then, after a moment's hesitation, "I have had my trials, Mrs. Hulcum, but I did n't calculate to bring them down to this house of trouble."
               "Your own dear mother could not be more anxious about your welfare, Mary, and that things should come out right with you."
               "They are going to," said Mary, with a firm voice and clear eyes. "I have faith to believe it. But I have taken things into my own hands, for I remembered what you said, Mrs. Hulcum, and got scared of thinking what I might be let to do. One evening when Mr. Ent came over, I just told father all about it."
               "You did? You brave girl!"
               "He did n't expect that I would say anything, neither did I; but O, the Lord must have been in it!"
               Mrs. Holcombe rose from her chair with her arms extended. "The Lord was in it!" she exclaimed. "The Lord be praised! You told your father all!"
               Then the great and strong emotion which had impelled her forsook her again. She sat down and folded her hands, and was once more a calm image of sorrow. But Mary in that moment had felt herself drawn close to the mourning mother. In that moment, too, Delia, had come nearer to joy than she had expected to come in this life.
               "O Mrs. Hulcum, I know you understand it all! It is like coming to my own mother!" Tears hindered Mary's speech. And so she was here to talk about herself! She had thought on her way down of the many consoling words and promises of Scripture which she would recall for Mrs. Holcombe, but here she was receiving instead of giving. And such was the experience of all who came to the preacher's wife. It was even in these days of darkness as in other days,—evermore she was the munificent giver.
               "Dear child," said Delia, "tell me all about it."
               "I was coming last week, when I first heard of your trouble, but not to talk of mine. I—I did n't come here to-day, in your affliction, to talk about myself," said Mary.
               "But tell me all," said Delia. "The merciful Lord has helped you."
               "I could n't—But I must. It is no secret how grandpa has been preaching," said Mary, embarrassed.
               "I know; but go on, dear child."
               "I had n't thought of telling him all, as you advised. When I began to wonder whether I really ought to, after Mr. Guildersleeve's funeral, it frightened me to think of. But then he began to preach in that way, and I was scared both ways. I think he suspected. He came home one night when August was there, and I think after that he suspected. But I felt as if I could n't bear that he should feel he could not trust me, if I did n't deserve it, when I was all he had. And then he began to preach that way, and I almost felt glad to think he did see that we were n't doing the fair thing by him. Only it made me more determined to have everything open. I could n't have consented to anything else after that, if I could have before. And, Mrs. Hulcum, we never know how weak we are till we are tempted."
               "Dear child, how fearfully true that is!"
               "Yes," said Mary, with more spirit, feeling the space for speech enlarged by Mrs. Holcombe's sympathy. "But I did feel so condemned when I thought what people might be saying about your church folks, all because of me! I should have had to tell him, anyway, on that account. I could n't have you all suffering for my sake. And then I had never kept a secret from him. Every time I looked at him I seemed to hear a voice saying, 'You hypocrite! you're cheating the old man who has always been kind to you.' You can't never guess, Mrs. Hulcum, how that made me feel; and I am glad you can't. But I was helped as I did n't expect. O, it's strange how there's always ways we can get out of trouble if we really, really want to get out?"
               "It is always the Lord's hand showing them. And you did not shut your eyes. O Mary, how He did love you! How precious you are in his sight!"
               If there was any need that the heart of Mary should be strengthened for the telling of this tale, she had an answer to her need in hearing Delia speak such words in such a tone.
               "When August came in," she continued, "he looked about the room, and saw poor father sitting there in the corner with his candle and his book; and a look came on his face which I don't believe I should 'a' noticed any other time, but I had the same kind o' feeling in my own mind; and that was the reason I said to myself, 'This is father's house; and if he has n't a right to sit here and read o' nights, who has?' And it has seemed to me since that getting mad at myself so helped me, and was the best thing that could 'a' happened. It put me on my guard against August and myself. You said what was true that day, Mrs. Hulcum, that 't was all in my hands. What I saw in his face I read clear in my own heart. It made me know that if this went on I should side with August, and then where would it all end? 'It's got to end short off just here,' I said to myself. 'I'm not going through the rest of my life thinking I've cheated that old man."'
               "But, Mary, that was an awful struggle."
               "I can't forget how much I owe you for helping me to get the better of my temptation. I seemed to hear you saying all the time, 'Tell him everything,' and that made me feel I could. I'll thank you for it, Mrs. Hulcum, now when I'm sure that I did the right thing."
               "You will be gladder every day that you live," said Delia. "It is better to grieve for loss than for gain."
               "I hope so," said Mary. She was thinking of her possible loss, as yet. "Well," she went on, "when August came in father put down his book and was glad to see him, of course; he has a great respect for Mr. Ent outside of the church. But August did n't have much to say to him at first, and he answered pretty short; and that was what fired me up. Then he seemed to think it was unbecoming himself, for he changed his behavior. I noticed it all, because I was looking on and listening as I never did before to anybody's talking. And I thought it was because August saw that I did n't like the way he talked to father that he changed his tone. Father was asking about getting up a stone wall, and how August managed his'n, and I was listening to what he answered, when it came into my mind that now was the time for me to speak, and I broke right in. 'Father,' I said, 'I ought to let you know that August and I have a question between us which nobody can settle but you: he has asked me to marry him.' I was terrible frightened, for it was a dreadful thing to say, with those two sitting there and looking at me in the way they did. But I looked right at father when I spoke. He is always kind to me. He is n't what you might think, Mrs. Hulcum, if you never heard him speak except when he is preaching. I did n't dare to look at Mr. Ent; but I shall never be afraid to look him in the face again."
               "Glory to God!" cried Delia, "you never will need to fear now."
               "In a minute,—for you must know how greatly he was surprised,—August said, 'And now I ask you, sir, to be as kind as Mary has been to me.' I went and stood by him when he said that, for I seemed to feel I must. You can't think how mazed father was. He did n't say anything for a good while; that is his way, and I never ask him a question a second time; I wait till he answers. He leant his head on his hand awhile. At last he said, 'Why did n't you tell me before?' 'Because I was afraid to,' I said. Then he asked if August had bid me keep quiet, and I could say no to that. But it was well I stood by August then, for he gave such a start, and looked so strange, I felt as if he might almost have knocked father down. Then he wanted to know why I told him now. I said because I was afraid to keep it from him. 'That's reason enough,' said he. 'Ent knows what his obligations are.' 'Yes, sir, I know my obligations very well,' August said. 'Well,' said father, 'do you mean to stand by 'em?' 'What do you mean by that question?' said August. 'I mean what I say,' said father; 'are you going to be honest about this business, and come out and take my girl, supposing I let you have her, or are you going to stay where you are, and—' 'And what, sir?' said August. 'Go on, sir,' said he, but he said it quietly; yet it was terrible to hear. 'Are you going to stay where you are and cheat everybody?' said father. 'That's been done before. Easy enough to do, if you get the girl to consent. She says she's told me of this because she is afeard to keep it. That sounds as if she was afeard of you. 'No, father,' I said, 'it's of myself I'm afraid.'—I'm going to tell you all, Mrs. Hulcum, because it's no more than he's preached, and I know you must have heard of it."
               It was now very evident to Delia that Father Trost had not betrayed her.
               "Be sure you tell me all," she said; "I know he has a good heart, after all."
               "You've got good reason to be afeard,' he said, 'and that's the reason, Ent, why I'm called to fight your doctrine. You know you can't marry my girl if she don't go with you, unless you turn about and go with her.' 'And I won't let him do that,' I said; 'he sha'n't show himself a turncoat for me.' But I felt ashamed when I said that, as if I was the one that hindered him from doing it. I did think once it would be a fine thing to make a convert of August; but I would n't have him turned now, if I could. Then father was angry. 'If you had took her for your wife underhand, that would n't 'a' surprised me,' he said. 'It's a thing has been tried afore now by folks as high up as you are. I have n't nothing against you, Ent,' he said, 'but I can't have this going on any longer.' 'I shall keep on hoping that you will change your mind about that,' said August. 'I get as good gospel of Bishop Hulcum as I want,' he said; 'and the church is my home, if it does n't please God to make another for me. I have n't loved it any the less since you took to preaching so hard against it. I don't know what you mean,' he said, 'throwing out such hints that some of our people have misbehaved as bad as you seem to think I could about Mary. But I think it would be better if you just spoke right out and told their names, and, though we are few in number, we would spare our false brethren."'
               "That was brave too," said Delia. "He deserves our thanks for saying that."
               "Was n't it a good thing to say! I thought I must tell you that. But father said that he did n't bring charges against persons; the system was wrong, and tempted folks to be dishonest. 'Mary's mind is settled about her religion,' he said. Then I told him that it would n't be unsettled even if I joined with Bishop Hulcum's people; and I don't know what he said after that; I think he felt I was lost—to him, anyway. When I stopped speaking, and August took my hand and held it, I could n't help saying that I should go with them some time, because I cared more for August than I did for anything on earth except father. He said that was indecent talk; but it was the truth, Mrs. Hulcum."
               "And you could n't have spoken it except under those circumstances," said Delia. "No girl could. But it was right to say it, on your grandfather's account as well as on August's."
               "I told him I could stand by what I had said twenty years. But O, Mrs. Hulcum, that broke father down. 'Till the old man's dead and gone,' he said, and he cried like a child. But I told him no, only till he changed his mind."
               "You could not have done more wisely than you have, Mary, whatever happens," Delia said.
               "I really think August respects me more than he did," said Mary, with blushing hesitation. "I knew I was right, but—it may be all 's over between us."
               In spite of this doubt, however, Mary had talked all the trouble out of her heart and out of her eyes, and she looked strong enough for the constancy of any number of years. When she went away from Mrs. Holcombe, she looked as happy as if she had altogether forgotten that her visit had been one of condolence at a house of mourning.
               It was then a recollection, not an anticipation, against which Father Trost had launched his bolt. There was but one thing to be done; the old man was ill; Delia would visit him.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               THE SWORD OVER THE GATE.
               AFTER the funeral of Rosa it was as if but a ripple had been made by the casting of a pebble in the stream of Swatara life. Everybody returned to work as if nothing had happened. Yet Max Boyd shed tears in secret when he had rendered the little service he could render the afflicted family. There were flowers ordered by him from the city with which the coffin was garnished without and within; he seemed to himself to have come quite near to Mrs. Holcombe in her sorrow, and the thought did him good. He stood in greater need than Christopher of sustained human relations. He liked to think of Mrs. Holcombe as a mother, and the sympathy he gave her was of special service to himself.
               Mr. Elsden's plans and operations could not, of course, be in the least degree disturbed by an event like Rosa's death. He sat in his office, and made his calculations as though the trumpet would never sound for him, and he did not withdraw from John Edgar the encouragement of his expectation. It was impossible that any person or influence bearing in the least degree on the life of John should be regarded with indifference by him, and he was aware, of course, that the event which had happened might in some unforeseen way affect the future of Miss Edna. He was more mindful therefore of John; his self-confidence was to be sustained, his self-respect increased, his hope encouraged, the evidences of his success multiplied. So it was that the machinist had honor of the superintendent before his fellow-workmen, and was seen by Max Boyd walking arm in arm with Mr. Elsden. Edna's lover, it was to be observed, was worthy of her, and his worthiness must be attested amply, before his aspiration became publicly known. It would then occasion no surprise.
               It was not immediately after the death of Rosa that John felt himself capable of resuming work with the same spirit which had urged him on before. Nevertheless the treatment of Mr. Elsden appeared to have been the best, for it was successful. Edgar began to think of himself, habitually, as an inventor and a gentleman. A change for the better was perceived even in his person. He cared for himself more and more, and as intelligently as it was possible for him to care. But though he was constantly in the workshop, his thoughts were always wandering to the bishop's house, and thence to the house not made with hands which had received the fair child. It was not difficult for him to think of Rosa as living under the conditions of an angel.
               Strange though it may seem, however, it now appeared to him that the work he had assigned to himself could more readily be performed than it could have been while Rosa was living. For he had felt, from the moment when his thoughts were directed in the channel through which they now constantly passed, that there was something like hostility in his heart towards the guardians of Edna. Anything like an endeavor on his part to secure her rights to her, if rights she had, must seem to them the work of an enemy.
               He determined still to speak to Doctor Detwiler, who, at least, knew about her life with Annie Gell, and with this intention went one day to the doctor's office at an hour when he would be most likely to find him there.
               A conversation with John Edgar was the thing which the doctor greatly desired, for he had perceived indications which troubled him, in the workshop and in the parsonage. He had seen John poring over the books which Edna had lent him, studying Rolfe's notes by the way. And Edna had told him, when he asked who was going to be her market-man and dispose for her of the stores she had gathered, that John had promised to do it. When he asked, "Why did you employ him?" she had answered, "There was nobody else to do it"; and on his suggestion that it was strange she should have gone up to the mines in search of an assistant, he had been surprised by the spirit with which she answered that he had proved her friend before now, and that she had no better. These trifles of speech, with the notable fact of the box of materials presented by Mr. Elsden through Edgar, had made the doctor desirous of a quiet talk with the latter, and so he considered it fortunate that he was in his office when John came down.
               The doctor shook him by the hand cordially, and said: "What is the matter with you, my good fellow? You look as hearty as a bear."
               "I am," said John, "only there was n't much doing, so I thought I would loaf."
               "Good. Sit down. Mr. Elsden gives a first-rate report of you, so I suppose you are on the high-road to fortune."
               "That's the road for me to travel, I know it well enough," said John, expanding, in the genial atmosphere of the office, in a noticeable manner.
               "You feel sure of yourself, then. Keep a sharp lookout, and you'll make a good drive, I don't doubt."
               "I don't know about that, sir, but I've got the reins in my own hands, I know."
               "All the better, then, since you're on the up-hill road, and a pretty rough one at that."
               "But I should hate to think I was n't ever coming to a smooth road, Doctor."
               "Nonsense," said Detwiler; "what do you want of smooth roads? Well and good if you happen to strike one, but you're not a girl. You have something to do, I take it, besides looking out for an easy way."
               "I should hope I would n't be so beggarly poor as I am just now, much longer," said John, conscious of uprising antagonism. The doctor, in fact, was treating him as though he were not in Mr. Elsden's confidence, and had not won the heart of Edna Gell,—two circumstances which made him Detwiler's equal any day.
               The doctor, thinking that it was quite too probable that his suspicions in regard to the way in which matters stood between Edna and John were warrantable, answered with the greatest deliberation, intending that his words should convey the utmost meaning possible. "Don't you know, Edgar, that poverty is the very best thing in the world for you?"
               "No, sir," he answered, curtly.
               "I devoutly hope that you will never find a short cut to wealth," said Detwiler.
               "Why?" The doctor had spoken so kindly that John would have felt ashamed to betray the anger he felt. He had learned that he must control himself if he would be the companion of gentlemen.
               "Because you would get lazy. And there would be plenty of harpies around to suck the blood out of you then. You can guess what would follow."
               "You think," said John, reddening, "that I'm never going to conquer that cursed—"
               "I know that you are going to fight like a hero, and that you will be obliged to fight, probably, as long as you live. Is n't that occupation enough for a man? I think you will carry the day, for you are a born fighter."
               "You have as good as taken my head off," said John; "only you have n't!" he added, with a self-assertion that would have been absurd, had it not been pitiful.
               "I have told you the truth, though," returned the doctor, dryly; then he stopped. John should himself direct the conversation, for it was evident that he had come to talk.
               "Have you seen that little picture of Miss Rosa?" he asked, advancing bravely.
               "Yes, and how good it is!" The doctor took a quill from his pen-rack, and dusted his writing-desk therewith.
               "I have been fooling away with my pencil to see if I could do anything like it. I can't; yet I taught Miss Edna all she knows about drawing."
               "You!" The exclamation probed John's vanity, and touched a nerve of pride.
               "She says so," he answered quickly.
               "O, of course she says so! But you do not suppose that she sees the facts as we do,—as I do, I mean, for it seems you do not agree with me."
               "I never thought that I could do much for her, or that I had done much. But she—It makes no difference who taught her, or who did n't; if she chooses to feel grateful to me, I am not going to complain, sir."
               "I don't like the way you talk, John," said the doctor; "it would be insufferable in any young man. It sounds exactly as if you might be capable of making use of the kind feeling she is perhaps generous enough to express to you."
               "I don't think it would be likely, sir, I would be saying anything to you about her that she 'd think insufferable."
               "No matter what she would think about it. I'm old enough to be father to both of you, and that's what I think."
               "It is a great pity that she lost her father so young," said John, quickly, thankful that the doctor had assisted him by introducing that word.
               "On the contrary," said Detwiler, "she has suffered no loss. Better guardianship she could not possibly have had than she has found in Bishop Holcombe and his wife."
               "You think poverty a fine thing, doctor, by the way you talk about fortunes lost."
               The words were spoken with so much significance that, although the doctor abhorred the necessity, he felt himself compelled to ask John what he meant.
               "If a thing is your own you want it, I suppose. If you don't ask for it, most likely you are ignorant that it belongs to you. Your crust, if it's yours, is sweeter to you than another man's loaf, though he says you're welcome."
               The doctor reflected, and dared not ask again to what all this talk might have reference. He determined to ignore for the present the possibility of any hidden meaning in the words.
               "Any one of us," he said, "would be glad to help a woman, especially if she was young and pretty; particularly to a better fortune, if we felt we had the right. But even if we felt that we had it, we might be greatly mistaken. Very few of us really have the right to seek the portion we might choose."
               "I suppose you are correct, sir," John said, stiffly.
               "Yes, for that would imply a divine right, which nothing short of a divine power could confer."
               John was silent.
               "Even she herself could not give it. There are two sides to every such question."
               This subject must not be dropped at its present stage; the doctor was manifestly bent on pushing it.
               "I don't understand you, sir." John looked about uneasily, and wished that Detwiler could know exactly how things stood between himself and Edna; he felt also that he had lost an opportunity of asking at the right moment, "Who was Edna's father? Tell me, if you know."
               "I understand you, though, I'm afraid," the doctor said. "I am afraid that you have the greatest hope in your heart that can enter it. No, I should not say that. There is a greater hope even than that,—one that will make you take hold of life, sir, with nobler determination. I am not blind; I can see all that you see, and a great deal beyond."
               "Has she—told you anything?"
               "No. I wish—I wish she had!"
               "Well, if you know all, sir, what do you think of it?"
               "Badly."
               "You think I am such a poor devil!" said John, breaking out passionately, after a brief silence. "You will not see that I—I am not what I was."
               "I believe you will be an honorable, upright man, sir. But do you know where you are? You are in Eden, and you must go out." There was pity, tenderness, authority, in the voice of Detwiler speaking these words. He added in another tone, as if suddenly he were himself rising to a height he had never attained before, "Poor fellow! you will have plenty of company outside."
               What was the doctor thinking? what was he about to require? Edgar waited, alarmed and awed, to know.
               "You have been thinking that you would marry this dear girl, some day. Speak, 'fore God!"
               "Yes, I have."
               The doctor turned his eyes away from the young face before him. Not often had his strong heart been so troubled; rarely had his face expressed so much as was now visible upon it.
               "I dare say that, for anything like the future before you which you could clearly see, you would be willing to work," he said. "And I know you would n't count dear any labor or pain. I know to what a noble pitch such a prospect might keep you tuned. You had a right to aim high, John; no right to aim low. But what would be right for you to do if your interest were the only thing to be considered, don't you see it would be damnably wrong when somebody else was to be thought of?"
               John looked at the doctor without speaking. He felt as if the life were being crushed out of him. Springing to his feet, he walked across the office with rapid strides. He gasped for breath.
               Detwiler went on, as if heartlessly regardless of all he saw.
               "You thought that you were getting saved yourself," said he, his face paling with emotion and his voice betraying it; "but dare you look forward and face what may arise in another generation, and call you cursed? What have you felt since you were able to understand your feelings but this, that there was a chained devil in you which you must watch, hour by hour, never knowing the moment when he might spring upon you? And there's a young girl,—a child I have always considered her till now,—she sees what your trouble is, and because it is in her to help every weak, suffering thing she sees, she is ready, before she could possibly have what she for her part might need, to give herself to you. And you—you are willing to accept such a gift! Look here! Are you willing that twenty years from now a son of hers should go through what you've gone through, and must go through, for you have n't finished your fight yet, and you know it! Are you such a dastard that you are willing? I tell you plainly, Edgar, you have no more right to marry any girl, I don't care who she is, or how low down you go to find her, than if you had leprosy. A man's fitness for a relation so sacred is n't determined by his desires."
               "Go on, sir," cried John, white with rage.
               "I intend to do so. You have no more right than—I have. I told you you would have company outside of Eden. I went out years ago. If I had dared (listen to me! no man but yourself has ever heard this of me),—if I had dared, there was a lady whom I would have asked to marry me. I do not know what she would have answered; but I should at least have had the satisfaction of letting her know that she was all woman could be to man. That is as much as any girl can be to you; yes, and a thousand times more, for you have many chances and ambitions where I had n't one. I came and buried myself in these hills, as you might say, to save my life. In more ways than one I've saved it. No woman whom I love, I said, shall suffer as my mother suffered, killed outright by anxiety. I tell you, as surely as Jesus conquered his temptations, you may conquer this."
               It was evident that the doctor's words, so rapidly spoken in that low voice of his, which was so powerful in carrying conviction, had produced an effect. But what effect? Edgar did not reply, and he went on.
               "Have I given the death-blow to your hopes, poor fellow? See, then, how unworthy you would have been in this respect to unite her fortune with yours. Be all that you would have been for Edna's sake, and much more for her sake. Show your love for her by forbearing to curse her children's children."
               "I am not going to make a fool of myself," Edgar began.
               "You shall not tell me to-day what you will do. I am not prepared to think you are ready to take all that the Almighty has prepared for those who defy him."
               "I don't see that it's a question between the Almighty and me," replied Edgar, sullenly, preparing to leave the office, for the doctor had risen with the evident intention of going about his business.
               "You must settle it with Him then. He has made his laws; break them if you think you'll gain anything by it. But I'll answer that you find it a losing business in the end. Good by, then. If I have said the cruellest things you ever heard, I am still your best friend, Edgar. I'm no harder on you than I have been on myself. Let's do the best we can with what we have, and thank God if he has taught us anything that will make us better doctors of other poor mortals."
               If John Edgar could go away and forget the voice that spoke those words, and the steady gaze of the doctor's eyes, he was a poorer mortal even than he deemed himself.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               A NEW ART PATRON ON THE STAGE.
               JOHN had gone but two thirds of his way home when he heard himself called; it was a well-known and a well-liked voice that startled him with, "Hallo, there!"
               It was Max Boyd who called. When he saw Edgar hurrying along with that dark look on his face, he thought it a sufficient reason for arresting him. There was an imperious spirit in Max which needed no more than to see a person bent on a mode of action to make him insist on being told the why.
               "What is your hurry? How are things working, Edgar?" he asked.
               "O, fine! Is that you, Mr. Boyd?" and then John walked on all the faster that he had been hindered.
               "But wait a moment, will you? I have something you would like to see. You were telling me about that picture. See! I have one—two."
               He took the drawings from his wallet as he spoke: one was of Rosa Holcombe, the other of himself.
               Edgar's eyes had an ugly, amazed glare. He took the drawings, and his first impulse was to tear them into fragments; but he gave them back, after a moment, unharmed. A glance had sufficed him.
               "How much did you pay for them?" he asked.
               The poor girl had turned in this direction, had she, seeking to make money which should diminish her debt? He would soon put an end to all this. But though he accounted for the work instantly in this manner, he was surprised when Maxwell answered: "Dirt cheap, I think. Ten dollars apiece."
               "Twenty dollars!" said Edgar.
               "She's a deuced proud little girl, though, John."
               "Working for your money is a proof of it," he answered, bitterly.
               "Good as any. If she had n't been so proud she would have insisted on making me a present of the pictures. I knew it when she sat working that way."
               "She is n't rich," said Edgar; "but I would n't have expected her to sell Rosa's picture."
               "I would pay. Else they would have thought that I expected to be remembered because I happened to be mixed up in that dreadful accident. You can't tell what folks will think. I consider such a picture as that cheap at any price."
               "Ah! I am going home this way, sir," said John; "it's a short cut, and I feel too tired for anything. Good night."
               "That's an unsociable trick," Max called after him; but John, without waiting for an answer, had already plunged among the elder-bushes, and was out of sight.
               And now concerning these pictures.
               Maxwell Boyd had preserved some of the flowers which had lain on Rosa's coffin; he had arranged them in a wreath, and placed them under glass, and had brought them thus preserved to Mrs. Holcombe. In other ways he had shown his sympathy, so that he was gratefully remembered in the bishop's house.
               Not many days after the funeral, he was walking in the neighborhood, when he met Edna. She carried a basket and a spade, and had evidently been planting some prized shrub or vine beside Rosa's grave.
               Max asked if he might carry the spade, and then, as he walked along with her, he talked about Rosa. One of the hands, he said, had told him about the excellent likeness she had made of her sister. She was then a real artist, for none but a true artist could have done so much without instruction. He would like very much to see the portrait if Miss Edna would be so kind as to show it to him.
               There were two points presented in these words which made an impression on Edna: first, the manner in which young Mr. Boyd spoke of John Edgar,—"one of the hands"; second, that in speaking of herself he had called her an artist.
               Of course John was one of the hands. And certainly, if any one had a right to speak of him so, it was one of the gentlemen in whose service he was employed. She had heard him spoken of also as an artisan. Mr. Boyd called her an artist; and she felt the difference implied in these words.
               "Who was it told you?" she asked, although she knew so well who must have told him.
               "Edgar," he said. "He ought to be considered a very good judge; don't you think so? He draws well himself."
               "Yes."
               "Things a good deal more complicated than faces, though," he said. "He brought me a very elaborate drawing one day, and I was completely taken in by it. He knows a great deal. It was an engine, and, I supposed, as complete as anything could be; but he told me it would n't go, and could n't be made to go, any more than a wooden horse if it was built. Then he added a line and a curve or two, and said that, made up on that pattern, there was n't anything running that could equal it for power."
               Edna's eyes shone with pleasure to hear this praise. "I can believe it," she said.
               "I wish I could see that drawing of yours," said he.
               "I have one here which I made this afternoon," said Edna. She stopped to take the paper from her pocket. They were standing under the shadow of a great pine-tree. It seemed to Max the perfect hour of a perfect day. He stood there to examine the picture, then he sat down on the mossy bed which covered the old tree's roots. Edna had drawn Rosa as they had so often seen her, running like a fawn across the bridge. The figure was full of life and motion; the breeze was in her hair.
               "O, this is perfect!" exclaimed Max; "but how could you bear to draw her—there?"
               "It is just as I see her all the time," said Edna. "I thought maybe if I put it on paper I—The other one, the one he told you about, was finished from something begun in sport before we—lost her."
               Then—it seemed at first as if to divert her thoughts—Max asked her if she had tested her skill in trying to produce other faces, and ended by saying that he would give a great deal to know what she could do with his. When she seemed surprised at his words, he explained that he had promised to send his classmates photographs of himself, but the negative from which copies were to have been made for them had been destroyed by fire. There had been no artist at Emerald all summer; if she should succeed, he could send the drawing to town, and copies could be made from it.
               Edna reflected, and presently said, "I will try it." She had thought, "He will pay well; the practice will do me good. I shall have all the more to give to Mr. Holcombe when I go away."
               "To-day?" he asked, delighted at his success in obtaining her consent.
               "I don't believe my hand is steady enough to-day," she said. "I have been digging with the spade, and the ground was stony. I will try to-morrow, if you like. You might come to Mrs. Holcombe's."
               But Max thought it unlikely they would want the work going on at the house at this time, and suggested the church. No, Edna said, it could not be there; Mrs. Holcombe would not be as well pleased. But she was thinking less of Delia than of John Edgar when she said this.
               "Very well, at the house then, if Mrs. Holcombe is willing. I will pay you ten dollars for the picture. Shall I pay now?"
               He was very ready indeed, but Edna said not till the work was finished, and thought it was a very high price to pay for a small piece of work like that.
               But Max said he had n't specified the size. Then he added that she might finish it in three lines if she could. "Only be true," he said. "I wish I owned this lovely little picture," he added, studying it line by line.
               "If you would like it you may have it," Edna said, with hesitation, thinking again of John.
               "Thank you; at the same price?"
               "That is dear Rosa's face. But I do not think they would want to see her so. I would be glad to give it to anybody who ever saw and loved her. I think it must do any one good to have it; as I am sure it did everybody good just to look at her."
               "I must pay for it though," Max said, as he laid the leaf in his wallet. "And I will come to-morrow afternoon, if that is convenient to you."
               "Yes." Inaudibly Edna continued, "And so I shall be paid like one of the hands."
               Possibly something like this thought was passing through Maxwell's mind, for he said, awkwardly enough: "Perhaps you don't like to think of my giving you money for the work. I have some grand books which I would like to share with you, if you would accept them."
               It seemed as if Edna had a little surprise to master before she could answer.
               "No, no," she said, "money will be better than anything, just now, for me. I am much obliged to you for wanting a picture, though it will be a poor one." As she spoke she seemed to resolutely put down the confusion she felt, and to ignore it as she looked at Max with a critic's eyes.
               "I dare say it will be a poor one for the reason that it will be a good likeness," he said.
               "I think I may do pretty well, because it is so necessary I should feel sure of my ground," said she.
               "And you do feel sure of it?"
               "I could draw your face, without a sitting."
               "But you will let me come?"
               "You had better come," said she, picking up her basket and spade, and looking homeward.
               "You have capital practice," said he, rising and taking the spade from her hand and swinging it over his shoulder. "There's Edgar himself,—you might draw him a dozen times and get a different likeness each time. He is more like a chameleon than any living animal I have seen. I know him pretty well, but I suppose if I should say what I thought of him, the men who have known him all his life would laugh in my face."
               "Don't they understand him?"
               "No."
               "Could n't they be made to?"
               "Honestly, I should hope not. There are too many things left at loose ends in him. When they're all caught up and secured, he will do to talk about, if that ever happens."
               A crimson glow overspread the face of Edna Gell.
               "He makes fun for you," she said.
               "He does, indeed. But he will come out right one day."
               "I must leave you," said Edna.
               They had approached the bridge when she thus dismissed him. He gave her back the spade. "To-morrow, then?"
               She hesitated a moment, thought of the patron he was like to prove, and said: "Yes, to-morrow."
               But going homewards alone she thought: "Poor John! he has nobody to stand by him but me. Well then, he has me."
               When Maxwell sat down in Mrs. Holcombe's best room on his return from the bank the next afternoon, he had that lady for company, and a very serious artist to perform the stipulated work. If he had engaged Edna's services simply for his own entertainment, because he was curious to learn the extent of her skill and had little to amuse him in those rather dull days, Edna had undertaken the work with the intention to do her best and take the wages stipulated. And if there was any embarrassment to be felt in the progress of the work, she was not the one to feel it. It might have been a block of wood, or any other inanimate object, that she was portraying. Surprised at this, he presently fell into a deeply reflective mood, which made her say, "Talk to—mother."
               Thereupon he did so. He had picked up several odd names in the neighborhood recently, and of these he began to speak, one after another. They were like so many signs in a book, he said, which he did not understand. Delia, who did understand them, explained, and so an hour and a half passed on, and the work was done. Edna had succeeded in making a spirited sketch, and was satisfied that Mr. Boyd should take it with him when he rose to go.
               "You have paid ten times what it is worth," said Mrs. Holcombe, when he presented Edna with the stipulated price.
               "A small sum for so good a picture, and a small sum for the privilege of the hour I have spent here."
               As Max said this, he felt a sudden moisture in his eyes. He had no sweet home memories; his childhood had been bleak, dark, and cold, his remembrance of his mother was full of pain. The kind words, the kind voice, the noble presence of the bishop's wife, the thought of that moment when it had fallen to his lot to make known to her the death of her child, drew him irresistibly towards her. He went away thinking more seriously than he had thought before of the good service it was within his power to render this household, of the means of education he might put within Edna's reach, of the adornments he would like to bring into the little house so fragrant with mignonette, of the pictures he would fain hang upon the walls.
               As he walked homeward, he remembered John Edgar; and, as he told him later, when John was returning from the doctor's office, wanted to show him at once the likeness of himself which Edna had drawn. It would give John a pleasure to see such good work; and he was curious to know the expression that satisfaction would find. He did not show his purchase to Christopher on his return;—Christopher would not care for such a trifle. If it had been his own work, however, he would have been quite sure that his brother would not have considered it a trifle. Maxwell was in fact quite certain, and well might be, that he sufficed for the heart, as business did for the brain, of Christopher.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               A STRAIT BETWIXT TWO.
               THE path which John Edgar took, when he left Max on his way home from Emerald, led him half a mile out of his way, but it brought him near to Mr. Holcombe's.
               There was an evening meeting in the meeting-house, and he thought that he might possibly meet Edna on the road. He hardly knew why he wanted to see her just then. He was thoroughly angry with the doctor, and with Boyd,—and perhaps with Edna also. But for one thing, he would ask her about these drawings she had sold Max. Though he knew she was working for money, it displeased him that she should have been willing to take Maxwell's portrait. She had sat and studied him sufficiently to make his picture lifelike. That was in fact the chief cause of his displeasure. If he should meet her, because of this displeasure he would find it more easy to ask her about that mystery of her parentage, and to place her under a great debt of discovery to him.
               As he walked along thinking of Edna she suddenly stood in the path before him. She had come from the meeting-house before the service was over,—it was so warm there, and her head ached, she said. But the truth was she had become uneasy thinking about John; he might need her, and she had come out on purpose to seek for him. Her sense of the fact that he did need her, that since she had given herself to him things were going well with him, whereas before that they had for the most part gone wrong (he was constantly telling her so, and the evidence of her own eyes corroborated his words), had made her life seem more important, had given it a new significance; and when she saw that he was not in the congregation she was troubled, and so finally walked out to learn where he was, and almost at once came upon him.
               It warmed her heart to see him, for she thought he could not have come in that direction at that hour unless it was to find her. By the dim light she eagerly scanned his face, and saw that, though it looked disturbed, his eyes were not drunken. And so she was doubly glad.
               "Are you going to the meeting?" she asked him.
               "No," he said, "I am going to walk with you, if you will let me."
               "Not down here, then; I don't like to walk by the creek. It makes me sick even to hear the sound of the water."
               "Then we will go up the road. Will you take my arm? it is rough walking. Are you tired?"
               "I could walk all night." So she took his hand, and they walked along together.
               "You must tell me one thing, Edna," said John, after they had gone a short distance, for he had a great deal to say, and no time to lose; "what have you been drawing Maxwell Boyd for?"
               "O, have you seen it? I was going to tell you. For pay, of course; just as you work for him. You are one of the hands; well, so am I."
               "It is n't the same thing at all," said he, "and I wish you had not done it. I wish he had his ten dollars back. You can't ask him for the picture, I suppose, but you can return his money."
               "Why do you wish me to do it, John?"
               "Because I think it is the right thing to do. If you are in need of the money, why should you not ask me for it? I have more than I shall use. And besides, if you do not wish to ask me, though all I have is yours, dear Edna, it would be better for you to ask for your own."
               "Ask for my own, John! what do you mean?"
               "I am going to tell you. But it is not an easy thing to say. Come in here; this is the mouth of Pit Hole; we can sit here and rest, and I will tell you all about it."
               But at the entrance of the old mine Edna hesitated. What was he going to tell her? Something that she did not know about herself?
               "Will you come in?" he said. "I made a seat in here, and was going to tell you if you found yourself tired away from home, up here, you could step in and rest."
               That acknowledgment of his thoughtfulness of her led Edna in.
               "What is it you are going to tell me?" she asked, sitting down beside him. "Is it about myself?"
               "Partly. But first I will tell you of a piece of good fortune I have had myself," said Edgar, finding it difficult to advance on the other line of speech. "I have a prospect of being taken into partnership in business by a gentleman. It depends on myself altogether,—on what I am able to do; so you see I shall be very hard at work now all the time. I can't tell you more about it just now, but I shall be able to pay every debt which you feel has been contracted for you by the kindness of other people."
               "O John, how good you are!"
               "But you know it is all I am living for, Edna, to serve you," he said, recollecting the doctor's words, which had implied that it was Edna's pity for him which had made her willing to live for him.
               A few weeks before Edna would have answered, "And you are all I have to live for"; but since Rosa's death it had been revealed to her that there was a great deal in Mr. Holcombe's house for which she could and must live.
               "If it had been me instead of Rosa, though, John, you would have borne it, and done just as well," said she. "And after a while, when all these good things came to pass which you expect, you would have found somebody else, just as dear and a great deal better than I."
               "Do you really believe that? Don't you know better? Don't you know that you are my angel? that I'm not the same man that I was before—before you promised? Edna, you must stand by me, and I will stand by you. You know what I am; you knew what I was that morning."
               "John, John, do not talk so. I always see you when I look forward. There is nobody else in the world for me but you."
               "Do you love me, Edna?"
               "Yes, John, I do love you."
               "Will—you kiss me, Edna, as a sign that you do love me, and that nothing shall come between us?"
               She bent down and kissed his hard hand.
               "Nothing shall come between us," she said. She was so quiet, so composed, that he in turn became so. "You were going to tell me something about myself, John," she said. "What is it? what have I to ask for that is mine?"
               "You have your father to ask for, Edna, and the property which belongs to you."
               "I do not understand you, John. Whom shall I ask? Do you know? Shall I ask you?"
               "I only know that you would be likely to get what you asked for. Mrs. Holcombe, I should think, would be the one to ask. She would be likely to know more about it than anybody. Annie was her friend,—was n't she?"
               "Yes, her friend. But, John, if there was anything belonging to me, they would have told me. They would have told me long ago."
               "Perhaps not. If they would, why did n't they, or why don't they?"
               "Do you think they would keep back anything from me that was mine?" exclaimed Edna, after a short pause, in which her surprise had been growing into amazement. "Annie would have known, they would all have known, if there was anything. Do you expect me to believe that they have all cheated me and wronged me? I do not, I cannot."
               "I don't know what to think about it, that is the honest fact; ask Mrs. Holcombe, and then perhaps you will know more than I do; but, if you fail, I shall feel bound to go on with the investigation, as the guardian of your rights."
               "Go on where? what with? Tell me all, tell me everything, dear John. You can't think how you have surprised me."
               "I'll tell you that your father was a gentleman," said he.
               "Do you suppose I did not know that?"
               Nothing could have pleased John as did these proud words. How near the girl who was convinced that her father was a gentleman had allowed him to come to her!
               "If you were my wife I should have everything made clear," said he. "I would ask questions of persons I thought most likely would be able to answer them. But you see, my darling, I can't go very far now even for you; people might think I was doing it for myself. But that is not so. I know that if you had your rights, everything would be changed between us. Money changes everything."
               "Not hearts."
               "They say, hearts most."
               "I don't believe it. But if you think there is a danger of that John, I shall never ask any questions. I don't want my heart to be changed about you. I know that nothing but you yourself could ever change it. And if I ask any question, it will be for you. I ought to go home. They will wonder where I am."
               "But, Edna, before you go, promise me that you will ask."
               "About my father?"
               "Yes."
               "Of Mrs. Holcombe?"
               "Yes."
               "But I could not ask for 'rights' which I know nothing about."
               "Well, ask that question and see what comes of it."
               Edna reflected. At last she said, leading the way out of the mine: "John, if I do, it will be the hardest thing I ever did, and for your sake. I never could ask her to tell me what she has not thought best to tell me for my own sake. Perhaps I might have done it once. But things are changed. I think you could not ask me to do anything I ought not to do. If you should be mistaken, and I should let her think that I suspected she had kept back what she ought to have told me, it would be horrible. But I am going to trust you, dear."
               Those last words John did not like to hear; they implied that the trust was an effort on Edna's part.
               "My girl, you may," he said; and as they came out under the starlight he kissed her, not modestly on the hand, but bravely on the cheek, and so saw himself justified, and the day's humiliations atoned for.
               All night Edna was thinking: "He could not have been so much in earnest about it if he had not known enough to make him sure. And he would not have urged me to ask, if he had not seen it was the best thing to do. Poor John—I will do it for his sake."
               And the next morning, while Delia was packing dried fruit in a jar and Edna was arranging the dishes on the kitchen shelves, she asked about her parents, and said that she would like to visit the place where she was born, that she might see the people who remembered her father and mother. Did Mrs. Holcombe ever see them? And did she remember them well? And did she, Edna, favor either of them?
               Yes,—her father, Delia told her. Edna had always felt, she said, that she was more like her father than her mother; and Delia told her she was right, that she did much more resemble him. And he was a gentleman? O yes.
               As Delia answered these questions, she thought, "The child perhaps already knows all that I could tell her!"
               "He must have been a poor man, though," said Edna. "But then," she added, repenting that she had given her doubt even this much expression,—"but then he was a gentleman, and I always believed he was. O, I forgot"; and she walked hastily out of the room, as if she had left some work which must be at once attended to.
               When she came back again, she made no further allusion to this subject; other thoughts had occupied her since she went. The doctor, on the lookout for her, had seen her as he drove past on the opposite bank of the stream, and had called to her, "Get your bonnet and come with me a mile or two," and she had gladly accepted his invitation. After what she had said to Mrs. Holcombe, the one desirable thing seemed to be to get away out of sight, the further the better. If there was nothing to tell, she had wronged her best friends by consenting to adopt the suspicious of others; if there was anything to tell, she did not want to know that the telling cost Mrs. Holcombe anything.
               The doctor was in his usual cheery mood; it was exaltation of desire and purpose to ride by his side in the early morning along the mountain road. They had not gone far when he began to talk about her speculations, —wanted to know how they prospered, and she told him about the drawings. She told him, chiefly because she was a little disturbed by what John had said last night about taking money of Mr. Boyd, and she wished to know how the doctor would look at the transaction. He seemed greatly pleased, and said he should ask Boyd to let him look at the drawing, and was interested to know what she had made out of his handsome face. Then he told her that he had great expectations in regard to Faulkner and the sale of her little farm; he thought the last time he saw him Faulkner seemed inclined to close at seven hundred. That was the highest he would go. "Suppose we just drive round that way and see if he has gone to sleep over it," said the doctor.
               "Do!" exclaimed Edna; and all the rest of the way she was from time to time thinking what she would do supposing Faulkner should pay her seven hundred dollars for her land. But she had other thoughts too, that occupied her during that drive.
               They visited Faulkner, and he haggled with the doctor for an hour, but finally came to terms; for the day had arrived when he must go to work on those fields of Edna's if he intended them to give him a crop the next year. The doctor urged him up to six hundred and ninety-five, and there he stopped, and could be urged no further.
               "Take it," said Edna to the doctor; and so the bargain was sealed, and Faulkner promised to come down for the papers which the doctor, Annie Gell's executor, would have ready for him next day; he would bring the payment with him in full, he said, or else Boyd's bank would cash his note.
               Going home the doctor asked her what she would do with so much money, and she answered, so promptly as to prove to him that the point had been for some time settled in her own mind, "Give it to Mrs. Holcombe."
               "Well, we must see about that. I am your guardian, you know," he said.
               "But you know," she answered, "I owe them everything."
               "Yes, I know that. Well, we'll see about it," he said again.
               
               Edna did not tell him that it seemed to her a small thing to give all she had into Mrs. Holcombe's hands, since she had, urged by a suspicion, asked her those questions in the morning.
               "There's one thing I wanted to ask you," he said; "do you see much of John Edgar nowadays?"
               "I saw him last evening."
               Edna was glad that the doctor had asked the question, and, if he went a great deal further than this, she resolved she would answer him. She would feel easier if he knew all that had passed between John and herself.
               "Is he doing well? I hear he is,—better at least than he was."
               "O yes," said Edna; "he is doing very well."
               "I know he says so; but we cannot always take a person's testimony in such a matter. He has had such a poor record so far, that really it would be almost a miracle if he reformed entirely. I don't know that it is possible for him to reform. Such a fever in the blood as he has is likely to break out at any time."
               "But good nursing and care keep down a fever and break it up, I have heard you say. It is better than medicine and all the doctors."
               "That is true," said the doctor, gravely, "but I don't know what kind of nursing he would be likely to get."
               "He might have a friend who could serve him."
               "No, Edna, it is not likely; he will gang his ain gait, now straight, and now crooked, and all the watching of the best nurse that ever was would n't hinder that fever from getting the upper hand of him now and then."
               It seemed a long time that the doctor drove along in silence; at last he said, "Edna, look in my face."
               His eyes filled with tears as she did so. "Tell me all about it, darling," said he. But she was silent.
               "Well, I cannot pry into your secrets, but he has told me that he means to marry you. I can't believe it, though. I don't see how it could happen. I don't intend to believe it, for he was never very careful about what he said since I knew him. If it is really true, you will tell me when you want me to know; meantime, I shall dismiss a thing so incredible from my mind."
               "Why is it so incredible?" asked Edna.
               "Why? Because you are Edna."
               "But is there any other reason?" She was thinking that, if there was any secret to be told which she had a right to know, the doctor might be able to divulge it."
               "There are more reasons than I can give just now. But you shall know them yet." The doctor gave Lightfoot a cut, and then occupied himself in restraining her. "You must have felt very lonely, and longed for a friend," said he. "But, my child, the thing I do not understand is how you should ever have allowed him to see that he had any right whatever to speak to you as—as a lover, if he has."
               "Can I help it if you do not understand it?" said Edna. "It is not a mystery to me. If he seems worthless to you, he does not seem more so than I have appeared to myself."
               "But your worthlessness is becoming less and less apparent to you. You are a child; you have been in a dream. Think of Mrs. Holcombe the wife of old Larkin! what kind of marriage do you suppose that would be? Well, this one would be about equal to that, according to my way of looking at things. Six months ago John would have told you I was his best friend. I know I am his friend. I know I am yours. I shall keep your secret. But there is one thing you must promise, Edna; you will invite me to your wedding. You will hide nothing from me. Everything shall be aboveboard."
               He repeated that question, and came back to it when he saw that she had not answered it, until she had given him her promise. "Now I can rest," he thought. "Edna will not deceive me."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               SYSTEM.
               THE next day saw Delia Holcombe on the mountain road, going to visit Father Trost.
               The road was shaded all the way by forest trees,—hemlocks, chestnuts, pines, and laurel; the air was laden with balm. But many times Delia felt herself compelled to sit down and rest. It was long since she had climbed this road. The trials which she had passed through had lessened her strength; she was surprised to find how weak she was. "It is because I am on this errand," she said; but that was not the only cause.
               The way she had to go was familiar to her. Every point that commanded a fine prospect she knew. Often had she paused to note the changes which had taken place in the valley since she could remember. Occupied for a while with memories of the old time, with prophecies which the on-looking and far-seeing uttered in her youth, and the fulfilment these had found, and the agents employed in their fulfilling,—her mind was oppressed as she contrasted the eagerness with which she had then listened to the prophets, and the heaviness with which now she gazed on the results of labors that they saw begun. Lost, lost forever, were the enchantments of youth. Forever gone the delight there had been in hoping. And what had she instead?
               How many memories had this young Mr. Boyd revived! If Edna would behold her father, let her look at this youth and she would see what Edward Rolfe was when he first came to Swatara. To the contemplation of this young man's character she had turned with an interest which she had not supposed herself capable of taking in any human life. It was as if she had arraigned herself before a tribunal, and would judge her past by what she found in him,—so full of hope and enterprise, so capable and so happy.
               She recalled the undisturbed self-possession with which Edna had proceeded with her work while young Mr. Boyd sat for his picture. How unconscious she had seemed! When Delia began to think in this vein, she forgot her fatigue, and did not sit down to rest again. She tried to imagine herself in Edna's place, and she said: "The child is stronger than I was. She has in herself what I only saw in her father. She stands on higher ground than I did or do. O God! could I bear the look of her unsealed eyes?"
               Mrs. Holcombe was going to see Father Trost. One of Delia's conspicuous offices was that of a peacemaker, and her husband had assigned to her this duty, suggesting that it might well be performed during the old man's disablement,—for his rheumatism still held him a prisoner.
               The visit would come with double grace at a time when he might suppose she would be absorbed by her own affliction.
               Emerging from the woods, she came to the uplands, and took the road bordered by the fine farms of Guildersleeve, Ahern, and Ent; among these was the little nook owned by Father Trost.
               Two great black-walnut trees shadowed the house and the yard. Their enormous trunks and wide-spreading branches made the house look like a bird's-nest from the road,—a humble ground-bird's nest.
               In the shady corner of his porch sat the old man. Near by on a chair some needle-work was lying, which told that his watcher was not far away, though just now nowhere in sight.
               Delia saw him sitting there, as she turned to secure the gate-latch. She walked up the straight and narrow path worn in the grass with a directness which told Father Trost who this visitor must be. A Mennonite, of course, by the dress of the woman; and no other than Delia could it be, for there was no female presence in Swatara like that of Friend Holcombe's wife.
               "When my husband went away, Monday morning, he said he wished I would call and see how you were getting on; I have been trying to do so every day since,—but here it is Friday," said she, taking the chair to which he pointed when he had shaken hands with her. "You have had a hard time, Father Trost."
               "Yes," he answered; "and it's a bad matter at my time of life, with so much work on my hands, and when I was grudging the old body feeding-time and sleeping-time, to be bound hand and foot, as one might say. And the Lord needing me in his field here, all white for the harvest! Friend Hulcum could cut a long swath for me if he had the right kind of a scythe."
               "But it is n't bad work that he's doing along the highways and hedges," said Delia, in a friendly tone.
               "There's the right way of doing everything," he answered, doggedly. "If you want to put weeds down in your orchard you sow buckwheat, don't you? I tell you, Miss Dely, you've got to meet the Evil One fair and square, and no dodging, if you want him to understand there ain't room around for him and you. He ain't the person to treat softly and take off your hat to perlitely."
               "But, Father Trost," said Delia, glad that the conversation had so soon taken this turn, and determined to show him the construction she had put upon his words, "you don't mean to say that Mr. Holcombe has been in league with—with anything so unholy?"
               "I'll tell you, Dely, what I think. I think he don't understand how the system works, for he won't step outside and take a look. I tell you, the system that don't work to the making of honest Christians, what'll you make of it? If it ain't in league with evil spirits, I don't know what is."
               This was plain speaking.
               "Father Trost," said Delia, meeting the gaze of his pitiless eyes with a look which was not designed to appeal to him, but which could not fail of making itself felt,—"Father Trost, do you know of any one besides Delia Rose it has n't made an honest Christian of? Isn't it Delia you have been preaching about all along?"
               He neither discerned the spirit that looked from her eyes, nor heard that which spoke through her voice, and he was relentless. "It stands to reason," he said, "if she could play fast and loose, others could. She had in her bringing-up, as you might say, peculiar privileges; if you could expect anything except rottenness anywhere, you might there."
               "Well," said Delia, "I know it. But I don't think you have judged right. I don't believe, sir, there's another one of our persuasion in Swatara but has a record you could read over with as little blame as you could read over your own church-people's records. I believe I am the only offender."
               "Yes," he sneered; and then he spoke more kindly, for he felt his power, and that he did not need to wield it with all his might. "But look at Deacon Ent. Where would he be, do you think, if my girl had n't been honest?"
               "Where would he be?"
               "Married to a woman he could n't own before the people!"
               "O, then be thankful for that good girl, and be kind to her, Father Trost."
               "I shall be kind to her," said he, impatiently; "I can 'tend to my own business. But what I want you to notice, Dely, is, it's your system that would have made Ent a deceiver, and it's my system that kept him from it."
               "We shall never agree, except in one thing," said Delia.
               "What's that?"
               "That I did sin."
               "And you don't mean to own it! Ain't that your order? Old Guilder-sleeve had to make a confession. How are you going to get your peace, ma'am?"
               "I don't expect peace, Father Trost. It is something I have n't had for years. I don't look for it."
               "If you believe Scriptur', ma'am, there's the story of Ananias and Sapphira you might profit by."
               Delia considered these words, and looked at Father Trost astonished.
               "Do you suppose Friend Holcombe knows what you and I know?" she asked with an indignation which for the moment mastered her.
               "He don't, eh?"
               "Can't you see, sir, have n't you seen, that this is the only reason why I did not long ago acknowledge all?" It was evident that he still doubted her; and that he should doubt urged her on to say: "But, sir, this is not the reason why I have not left the congregation. Friend Holcombe has made our religion dear to me. I love our covenant and our laws. I love all that you hate and persecute. I honor what you despise. I stand by our regulations. Put yourself where Bishop Holcombe is. Shall I bring contempt on the calling of that man of God? I implore you to say. I implore you, have pity."
               The anguish which Trost saw in Delia as she spoke these words must have made itself perceptible to duller, coarser sense than his. But the thing that he could never do was to place himself, even in imagination, where Friend Holcombe was standing.
               "If your husband hasn't known this all along," said he, "I'm glad of it. I think the better of him."
               "I knew—I knew you never could have wronged him as you have, and grieved him as you have, and crippled him in his work so, but for me."
               He saw her tears, and heard her groans.
               "And if it had n't been for your doctrines," said he, steadying himself on this fact, for he had need to recall the system he hated in order to sustain himself when he saw her so moved, "you never could have been in this situation,—never! It's your system that's to blame, Miss Dely, and that's all I've said. And if the Lord spares me, it's that I'll fight agin till the end. I'll go on doing what I'm called to do,—enlightening, enlightening. Another set of young folks coming on, like your Edny there, won't have your excuse for sowing tares instead of wheat."
               "I had no excuse," said Delia, humbly. "I had been taught. If I had been like your Mary, this would not have happened."
               "System," he repeated. "I told you that afore, systems was made for men. If it's bad it works bad. How can it work any other way? It must be changed."
               There was evidently nothing further to be said on that point.
               After a brief silence Delia said: "Father Trost, I have meant for a long time to ask you for a certificate. You said that I should have one when it was wanted. As I told you before, your letter never came to us. Can you give me one to-day? Perhaps, if I should ever see that the truth must be told, as I do not see now, it would be necessary for me to have it; at least, I wish for it."
               The old man's eyes sparkled. That was an hour of triumph for system. "Look at these hands here," said he. "I have n't held a pen for weeks. I could n't make my mark even. I'll testify for you before witnesses though, any day, Miss Dely; but remember, I can't come out of my grave to do it. What thou doest do quickly. Look ye, Dely Hulcum! What if the Lord has a stiffened them cords, and made me a cripple for your sake! I say, Yea, Lord, pluck 'em! pluck 'em as brands from the burning by me; I can bear it for the gospil's sake."
               Delia arose. "I forgive you," she said,—"I forgive you for laying off your cruelty on to the Lord like that! I can bear my burden. I may come to you some day and ask you to testify before witnesses. The Lord may kindly show me how I may do it for his honor and glory. Till then I can bear my burden. But you! find, if you can, how to answer why you have made use of a poor girl's foolishness and sin to fight a church and a true servant of God. It is a woman you have been seeking to terrify, and not the Devil that you have been fighting. I remind you of the promise you made two foolish young creatures, that you would consider the ceremony you had performed for them their business and not yours! Perhaps you will say you have not broken your promise. How much better have you done, throwing dishonorable charges on a people, which you knew you could not explain! I say, sir, it is a pity that your system has not made an honest Christian man of you."
               The old man did not answer. And Delia did not wait for an answer. She was afraid to trust herself within his hearing longer. There was nothing to be gained by either of them from further talk. He had shown himself malicious in the satisfaction he evinced that he could not give her the certificate when she asked for it.
               By and by Mary came and sat down in the porch beside her grandfather and resumed her work, glad that he slept, for then surely he had not found the time long that she had stayed away.
               After a while he roused himself and said he would go back to his room. He felt it chilly in the porch. So Mary helped him into the house, and did not guess that a whirlwind had passed by, that bright summer afternoon.
               The Boyds were driving along the road from their house to the mines, when Mrs. Holcombe was seen emerging from the pine grove.
               "There's the bishop's wife, a good way from home," said Max, remembering that once before he had found her in that region, and that she had not then refused his offer to ride home in his wagon.
               Christopher turned and bowed, as Maxwell spoke. A tired and sad face was what he could not bear to see in a woman. He reined in his horses and told her that they were going her way, and would she ride? Max sprang from the wagon before she could answer; and as Delia was in fact very weary, she expressed her thankfulness and allowed him to assist her in getting up into the back seat.
               When they had driven as far as the superintendent's office, Mr. Boyd said he must speak to Mr. Elsden, and asked Max to drive down with Mrs. Holcombe, and stop for him on his way back.
               As he turned towards the office, John Edgar came out. A long conference between himself and Mr. Elsden had just ended, and John looked rather excited. But his excitement did not prevent his seeing that Mrs. Holcombe was in Mr. Boyd's carriage, and that Mr. Boyd had just alighted, and that Mr. Max still held the reins. But as his back was turned upon the party almost before they noticed him, he walked away, at a faster pace than was necessary, since nobody thought of following him, and his work as an artisan was about finished for this world.
               Max drove slowly down the road. He derived an almost perfect satisfaction from the simple fact that Mrs. Holcombe was with him in Christopher's carriage. When in their conversation he looked around at her once or twice, he thought how fine a face it was, and that its good looks were not to be damaged in the least by the ugly poke bonnet she wore. How grand and how lovely she seemed to him! He felt that he loved her; and he did with all the enthusiasm and reverence a good and pure young spirit may entertain towards a gracious, kindly woman,—he loved her more tenderly than he loved Christopher, and as warmly.
               "Isn't there something I can do for you?" he asked as he helped her from the wagon.
               "Let us see you at our house as often as you can make it agreeable to come," she said. "You know how glad we always are to have you come."
               "But you must let me know when you have another long walk to take," said he; "I can always have one of the horses, and it is such a pleasure to drive over this beautiful country. You would confer a great boon on me by letting me take you."
               "Thank you, I will remember it," said Delia; and she had so far lost sight of the miserable business which had taken her to Father Trost, that as she walked towards her house she prayed for the preservation of the beautiful youth of Maxwell Boyd.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               BUT EVERYTHING COMES BY TROUBLE.
               JOHN EDGAR had held an important consultation with Mr. Elsden that afternoon. He had been exhibiting the results of his recent investigations in the neighborhood of Pit Hole. In compliance with the superintendent's request he had begun to explore. It was seldom that he felt at liberty to leave the workshop by daylight during working-hours, for the post he filled was an important one, and his services might be required at any moment; but all the time he could command he had expended in investigations and experiments. The result he had been communicating to Mr. Elsden this afternoon was not of experiment, but of observation,—he had been exploring with expectation of discovery.
               The moment he entered, Mr. Elsden arose and locked the door.
               "I hope you can talk as well, John, if you know we are alone," said he. "It makes me nervous, when I have business in hand, to be interrupted every moment."
               John was quite satisfied that there should seem to be a necessity of talking behind bolts with the superintendent. "I may be mistaken, sir," he said, proceeding to business with a promptness that Mr. Elsden liked; "but I think the drill has more than paid for itself, for it has set me on to use my eyes as I never did before I had it. Can you tell what this is, sir?"
               Mr. Elsden glanced from the fragment which John had placed before him to John's face; they both smiled and looked well pleased.
               "I know iron ore when I see it, John," said he.
               "There is plenty of it, then, sir. Is it worth as much as coal?"
               "Pretty nearly!"
               "Then you are the proprietor of an iron mine, sir."
               "Then John Edgar is my partner!" Mr. Elsden laid his hand on John's shoulder at that, with a friendliness that was very evident, and a familiarity which sent a thrill through the young man's frame.
               "But we don't owe it to the drill," said he, "I have broken that. I can't work it without a stronger engine to drive. But I know I am on the right track. After that was done for I set to work with my eyes, and this is what I found."
               "And a very good finding; an admirable finding, I call it. The iron has lain in that mine,—how many thousand years do you think?"
               "Since the flood, for all I know."
               "Quite as long; it can afford to lie there a little longer then; we have n't time to attend to it just now."
               "Wouldn't Mr. Boyd take hold of it?" asked John, somewhat timidly. There was something about this business which was not quite clear to him, and it troubled him a little.
               "I should like to know why he should take hold of it," said Mr. Elsden, apparently surprised, and not very well pleased by the question. "He has nothing to do with it. I purchased the mine before Boyd came here; and as I said before, you and I are the partners in this business."
               "Then you expect something of that drill yet," said John, elated.
               "I expect something of you."
               "Then you will tell me, sir, what you expect, so that I may do it!"
               "Good! But no haste."
               "I should n't think, sir, that you would wait a day."
               "I must. That is a hard word to get round. And there it is. When you are as old as I am, John, you won't have enthusiasm to trouble you, and tempt and blind you. I hope you will still have warmth enough in your blood, though, to enjoy a genuine success. And that reminds me, how are you getting on, my lad, in the other direction? I mean about Miss Edna?"
               Somehow, it seemed to John that this question did not comport well with his notions of what became Mr. Elsden's dignity; still it showed an interest in himself which was certainly flattering.
               "Not very fast. But I mentioned it," said he.
               "That is fast enough. You do not suppose the young lady will forget it again."
               "I almost wish she would; for it troubled her."
               "Of course it would trouble her. But everything comes by trouble. It is your situation,—I cannot believe it is your character,—that makes you vacillate. When you have secured the young lady's rights to her, you will have won your spurs as a gallant knight, and nobody will dispute your right to the society of gentlemen." ("Nor mine to go on mining when you get the money for it," he added to himself.)
               "Excuse me," he said, when he saw how confused and excited he had made Edgar by his last words; "when I talk with a friend, I am likely to say out all I have been thinking about him, and somehow you have managed to occupy my thoughts pretty steadily along back. But, John, you are a shrewd fellow; just tell me how long you think this business of Boyd's is likely to hold on."
               Edgar was too much surprised by what was intimated in Mr. Elsden's manner as he spoke, and by the words he uttered, to feel amazement that they should have been addressed by that gentleman to himself. Approaching the desk, he looked at the superintendent. "Why, sir, as long as Mr. Boyd pleases."
               "In my opinion, it must be his pleasure to wind it up very speedily then. I have been looking over things: we're falling off in the quality of coal. It don't bring the price it did. The best is down, for the market is glutted. Every day or two we hear of a new failure, and everybody distrusts everybody. That iron won't rust. It is safer locked up as it is than it would be elsewhere. If I stood where you do, I would n't change my place, sir, for Christopher Boyd's."
               "Does he know what you think, sir?" asked John, looking away from Mr. Elsden and conscious that his own face had crimsoned during the last few seconds.
               "He knows what he thinks himself,—that we're on the breakers. He believes that he can steer clear of the rocks. He may. He says that he has known worse times; but I never have."
               John seemed to shrink bodily before the prospect which now began to come out clear before him. "It's too bad," said he; "I don't like it."
               "It is ugly."
               "Can't you make Mr. Boyd see it as you do, Mr. Elsden?"
               "You need n't waste your sympathy on him, John. He could n't be made to see any different by anybody. He won't have a fall either. He will land on his feet, and climb up higher than he was before, I have n't a doubt. If there was n't all that in him, I should exceedingly dislike to occupy my present position. By the way, I expect him along this afternoon; we sent down to Emerald for news, and I have despatches," and he placed his hand on a pile of letters lying on his desk. "Is n't he coming now? Yes! there they are. Bear in mind what I have said to you, John. The Holcombes have as much interest as anybody in the success of the mining interests here."
               "Can he mean," thought John, as he walked away,—"can he mean that Edna's fortune is locked up here-abouts? It could n't be that was why he was so ready to say I should be his partner?"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               EDNA A CAPITALIST.
               FAULKNER had said that he would come down next day to have the papers made out, and he kept his word. The doctor expected him, and the two went together over to Swatara,—Faulkner with the doctor's receipt in his pocket, and Detwiler carrying in his note-book the farmer's draft on Boyd's bank for six hundred and ninety-five dollars.
               There was a promise of rain, and when they came to the ford, Faulkner concluded to go on homeward without stopping at Mr. Holcombe's; the doctor accordingly went over alone.
               Arrived at the house, he found only Edna. She was occupied with some household work, but, when she saw him, stopped everything, and ran towards him in a way that showed he had come to a place where there was need of him.
               So satisfied of this was he, that he gave no evidence of his perception, but greeted her with his usual cordial, cheerful "Good morning. All well?" and sat down as if he had the day before him to spend as he pleased.
               "Is Mistress Holcombe within?" he said; and Edna answered, as she went on with her work, "Mother has gone to see somebody that was hurt in the mines yesterday."
               The doctor noticed that word "mother,"—he had never heard Edna use it before.
               "Not a very serious hurt though," he said, "but our mother takes everybody's pain and sorrow to heart. If the world were rich in such mothers, Edna, we should have a race of angels on earth."
               As she did not respond at once, he asked her if she did not agree with him; and then he perceived that she was trying to answer, and to conceal her emotion; in spite of her effort, though, he saw bright tears dropping from her eyes. Suddenly it occurred to Edna, that by taking the doctor into her confidence she might rid herself of the burden John had put upon her when he counselled her to interrogate Mrs. Holcombe in regard to her past; and so she began:—
               "I want to ask you something, doctor."
               "Come then and sit down here by me," he said. "I am growing old and hard of hearing, you know."
               But she continued her work instead, for she was so agitated that she knew if she dropped it and sat quietly down the only thing she could do then would be to give way to the floods of tears which threatened every moment to find their outlet.
               "I want to ask you," she said, "about—my people."
               "Well, then, you must ask," said he; and he wondered if Delia's hour had come.
               But after Edna had gone so far she hesitated. It seemed to her that to question the doctor was to exhibit as great a distrust as when she questioned Mrs. Holcombe; but then she thought of John, and of the satisfaction it would be to be able to say to him that he was mistaken; and after she had distinctly asked the doctor she intended to show him that her question had no meaning. And so she said:—
               "Do you know anything about them? Have I any rights which I have never heard of?"
               "Are you sure that you are wide-awake?" returned the doctor. "Come here and let me feel your pulse. Who has been telling you fairy tales, that you think Mr. Holcombe has a Cinderella in the house who is going to ride off in a coach some fine morning to her house of gold?"
               Edna did not look confused, but glad, to hear this. "You may make all the fun of me you please," she said. "I like to have you; for it would be dreadful to think they could—could do what was n't right."
               "I should think so," said the doctor; "I should think so," he repeated slowly. "And now tell me who has dared to give you a cup of poison, and slander the best people that live."
               "I only wanted to know what you would say," she answered. "You never went down to Hollandsburgh!"
               "A hundred times, at least."
               "O, then, did you ever see my father there?"
               "I have seen him often."
               "Then—then you can tell me all about it, and him, and everything."
               "In the first place, I ought to tell you," said the doctor,—not to gain time, for he had at once decided on the course he would take, but to divert Edna's attention and lessen the excitement with which she prepared to listen to him,—"Faulkner has been down according to agreement, and I had the papers all ready for him. He has given me his note, and you can get the money from the bank any day, or I can get it for you. There it is," he said, producing the note; "you can see his name is good for something written down there: it makes you the owner of a nice little sum of money."
               "Yes, thank you."
               "Well, but take it, it is yours. You see I have indorsed it here."
               Money had come to Edna, as it comes to many others, at a moment when its value was sadly depreciated. What she wanted now was to hear about her father.
               And the doctor did not keep her waiting long. He satisfied her heart. He gave to her a portraiture which she must evermore love and honor. It was impossible after he had spoken that she should ever lose that image, or that she should ask again if he had left her at his death poor as well as orphaned. The doctor had noble material, and he used it nobly. The father of Edna was a gentleman, educated and refined; and but for his early death he would have redeemed every expectation formed of him by those who knew and loved him. He, too, had skill in drawing, and, had he studied art, might have stood in the foremost rank of artists. The doctor said it had rejoiced him when he saw her taking up her pencils and using them so skilfully: that was a part of her inheritance, and but a part of it. Did she know what he was going to propose to Mrs. Holcombe? It was that she should be sent away to school, to a town where his sister lived. His sister had daughters, and he had not a doubt that he could prepare a home for Edna with them; if not that exactly, they would at least be her friends and companions. She had not failed to notice that he had been in earnest when he called her attention to this and that book which he brought her to study. It was because she was beloved for her father's sake; because he knew what her father would have wished to do for his child, had his life been spared; because, having known the father so well, he felt that he could not mistake the spirit of the child.
               In all his talk the doctor did not once allude to John Edgar. He seemed to have forgotten him. He had not forgotten him, but he wished her to see how little such a person had really to do with her life. He wished her own mind to suggest to her the contrast between him and this personage whom he had given to her imagination with liberty to call him father.
               She sat listening to him, her eyes upon him, growing more and more serene till they were filled with the most lovely light. At last, when he had quite finished speaking, she seemed to feel the blissful spell removed, and, with a start, exclaimed, "O, why did n't you tell me all this before?"
               "Because the time had not come. I knew you would ask me some day, and I waited for that. And I will tell you one thing more, Edna; he always wished that you should come to live with Mrs. Holcombe. Of course, that could not be managed very easily while Annie lived, but after that no time was to be lost by those who cared for his wishes. You will bear Mrs. Holcombe witness: was she willing to receive you? it was for your father's sake that she was willing."
               "I know," she said, sadly, "it could not have been for mine."
               "But has she ever made you feel for one moment that you were a burden?"
               Edna's answer was a blushing, confused face.
               "Then, let me tell you, all your endeavor to earn money, that you might pay your way here, was an insult to Mrs. Holcombe."
               "I see it," said Edna. "I have never understood her. But I know now that she loves me, and it makes me so unhappy. I wish I had never come here. I wish—"
               "See!" said the doctor, interrupting her before she should be mastered quite by her excitement, "it is the best thing that could have happened that you came here. Think of this lonely house without Rosa, and no dear one to love! And even if they did not love you, think of their being left without your love!—you are as another child to them. No! no! you are your father's daughter; he would have seen as I do that it was the best thing that could have happened that you came here."
               "Take this, I don't want it. I don't know what to do with it," said Edna, giving Faulkner's note back to the doctor. "I did want it to pay them. But it would give them pain. I have the money for those drawings too. Would it be an insult to ask them to let me help buy the gravestone for Rosa?"
               "I think not. You might speak about it to Mrs. Holcombe. But no more talk, Edna, as if you belonged anywhere else than here, or to anybody else than these best people. And I think I will just leave you to manage Faulkner's note yourself. Your heart will show you what to do with it, I am sure. If Mrs. Holcombe were your own mother, you would ask her advice about it, if you had come into the possession of property in your own right. Well, do the same thing now."
               He talked himself into his best mood finally, and Edna could not listen to him, and look at him, without yielding to the contagion of his buoyant spirit.
               When Mrs. Holcombe came home, Edna found it easy to tell about the doctor's visit, and that he had completed the sale of the little estate, as old Annie's executor, and to give the note to her and say: "It is nothing to me, mother, for everything I have is yours, you know."
               The act, and the name by which Edna had called her, made Delia's heart stand still. It was obvious that a great change had taken place in this girl since the days when she called Delia Mrs. Holcombe, and held herself apart as a stranger, or at least as an alien, under that roof. It was no longer as the recipient of bounties, but as the loving child that she spoke!
               "We must talk with father about this," she said, holding the note loosely in her hand, uncertain for an instant what to do with it; then she arose and laid it in the Bible on the bureau. "He will be safe counsel," she said.
               "Yes," Edna assented; and then she feigned great interest in the wounded man whom Delia had visited, and so gradually made her way beyond the circle of her morning agitations.
               When she saw John again, she had thought of a device by which his well-being might be secured, and at the same time her own. Her heart, disturbed and perplexed, turned, as in all ages the disturbed and the perplexed have turned, to the church, seeking rest and security within its walls. She wished heartily, moreover, to give Delia Holcombe a joy.
               She was not born and had not been bred a Mennonite; she had not been baptized, and therefore had no membership, though she wore the dress and conformed to the customs of the people among whom she dwelt.
               She felt that it was time she thought of baptism and of membership on her own account, and she considered the restraints made necessary by Christian obligations would prove as beneficial to John as to herself. She resolved to speak with him.
               Last year, in one of her wayward moods, she had declared to Rosa her conviction that she should never be able to consent to unite with the Christian body over which Mr. Holcombe presided. Delia had overheard the argument, and had afterwards sought opportunity to say to Edna that she never must unite with them unless she should heartily desire to do so. And now she did heartily wish to be recognized as of that Israel. If she was to be John Edgar's helper, it was necessary that she should herself abide in the fastnesses of the rock.
               When she told John her wish, he would have laughed outright had it not been Edna that spoke. All his thoughts in these days were sweeping down towards the great busy world. He was coveting that world's honors and successes; he was preparing for the arrival of Good Fortune, who should remedy every ill; he smiled at Edna's simplicity, and told her that this was really the last thing he had expected to hear from her, and that a little further on she would change her mind about it.
               But she answered that she should not change her mind, for the reason that in the church all was safe and quiet.
               Then he reminded her that if she, who was good enough already without the church, should join it, he would be obliged to follow her, and he had no wish to do so; but that he should do so, and only on her account, and thus he would be a hypocrite. But he added: "I am fit for the church though, Edna, if I am fit for you. But we shall not be living here very long, and outside of the woods we shall associate with a very different class of folks. We shall go into the world among lively people. My business will carry me about a great deal."
               She just here recalled the doctor's words,—his counsel about the school; and the vision of her father seemed to stand before her, gazing upon her and upon John. "Wherever we go," she said, "we shall want to be quiet in our hearts."
               That rather serious answer he turned off with a laugh. "You are the last one that will be asking for such quiet as you get here, in a few years," said he. "Why, you will hardly know yourself, or me either, five years from now. We are children to what we shall be."
               Edna recognized the truth in this prophecy. "What is it you are thinking of all the time?" she asked. "What fortune do you see before us, John?"
               "I see wealth, reputation for me," he answered. "For you I see more than it would be safe to let you know."
               His words had a pleasant sound. It was clear to Edna that John was satisfied with her. And in spite of what the doctor had said, in spite of the parentage which seemed to ally her to nobles, there was in this poor, struggling John Edgar, who had not only fortune to fight against, but himself also, that which was the best of romances to her. She could not see anything base, dishonorable, vile in him. She saw him, in fact, quite clearly,—the good and the "not so good,"—and knew that he loved her. So pleasant a sound had his words that she dwelt on them in her thoughts, and merely smiled in answer.
               They were walking in the neighborhood of Pit Hole again, and he said: "You see that mountain. My fortune lies in there,—a part of it. But you can't guess what I mean by that, and I am not at liberty to tell you yet. Have you found out, though, what I meant by that other riddle? You must not attempt to discover this one, but the other I give you leave to guess."
               "There's nothing to find out, John."
               "You think so, or somebody told you so. Now which?"
               "We will just drop that subject. I like better to have nothing than—"
               "Yes, than just to speak out and say you want what belongs to you! That is n't a man's way of doing business. Well, never mind," he added, for he was conscious that he had spoken rudely, and there was a mixture of pain and indignation and disgust upon Edna's face which he liked not to see there. "You won't hinder my making a fortune for both of us," he continued. "I am not to be put down. Why, look at the Boyds! they began life as low down as any of these miners,"—he did not say as I did,—"and you see there's nothing to hinder a man's climbing to the top round of the ladder. I was going to ask you, Edna, if you would let me have another of those books. I can't tell you how much I have got from them. They feed me"; and then he began to quote in a softening voice, till Edna heard only music in it, as in the thoughts he uttered,— 
                     
                        "You are my all-the-world, and I must strive
                        To know my shames and praises from your tongue;
                        None else to me, nor I to none alive,
                        That my steeled sense or changes, right or wrong.
                        In so profound abysm I throw all care
                        Of others' voices, that my adder's sense
                        To critic and to flatterer stopped are.
                        
                        You are so strongly in my purpose bred
                        That all the world beside, methinks, are dead."
                     
                  
               
               Sweet words they were, to hear thus spoken! What wonder that Edna, remembering, should exact of herself fidelity, and find it easy to shape her words into praises of the life which she had come to perceive more and more clearly she must guard!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               MANNING THE LIFE-BOAT.
               MR. BOYD read the telegrams awaiting him in Mr. Elsden's office.
               "Squally," he said; and then, with more spirit, "We'll weather it through though, unless Cook and Thomas go down. In that case I don't know but we shall have to 'man the life-boat.'"
               "They are as good as the government," said Mr. Elsden; "I should almost expect a general suspension of business on top of their suspending."
               But on his way to town—for Christopher left home that same day for the capital—he read in the evening edition of a paper picked up on the train, that Cook and Thomas had suspended. He had merely used the name of this firm to signify to the superintendent the confidence he felt in himself in spite of the threatening aspect of things. And Mr. Elsden, understanding his meaning, had silently commented: "If the worst comes to the worst you are in no danger. There are dozens of employments you could turn your hand to." In fact, Mr. Elsden felt remarkably easy about Mr. Boyd.
               The day after Christopher left home, Max went to Mr. Elsden's office and asked him whether his brother was in a tight place.
               No tighter than common, Mr. Elsden told him. Every business man had felt cramped, he said, since things began to slide as they did six weeks ago. Mr. Elsden could not account for the slide, unless it had been occasioned by over-trading. "Your brother is as safe as anybody is," he said.
               "No safer?" asked Max. That Christopher should "go down," that he should even stand in jeopardy, was a thing Max did not like to consider.
               "I have been surprised, I confess, to hear what houses have stopped payment," Mr. Elsden answered. "Your brother has his money scattered about a good deal. That may be favorable, or the reverse, it is hard telling which, yet. There is no reason for being scared, though, for if anybody is likely to weather the storm, Christopher Boyd is."
               The next day Maxwell sought Mr. Elsden again. He was on his way to Emerald, and he had passed through his first sleepless night on account of business.
               "We have all these men's money in the bank," said he. "I have been thinking, if we go down, where is the security."
               "There is n't any," said Mr. Elsden, with, Max could n't help thinking, a strange indifference. "The bank is your brother's individual concern."
               Max knew that before, but he wanted to talk about it, he wanted counsel; and in spite of the evidence that he should not get what he wanted here, he went on.
               "Did my brother speak about it to you, Mr. Elsden?"
               "About what?"
               "The bank business."
               "No, sir. I presume it was quite crowded out of his mind by weightier matters."
               "I wish he had thought of it. You will be paying the men off to-morrow night in our bills."
               "They will want their money, and there are no other bills on hand. They will be glad enough to get them, too. Why, man! haven't you nerve enough to round the cape on a good stout raft? If you intend to do business you must not suppose that every cloud signifies a tornado."
               "I don't believe I like business, if this belongs to it," said Max to himself, as he went his ways. He had expected something very different from what he had received, of Mr. Elsden,—sympathy for the miners at least, and perhaps a little for his brother.
               Mr. Elsden paid off the men at the usual hour in the usual manner. Boyd's bills never looked more attractive than they did while passing from his hands into those of the laborers. The name of Max was written on each one of them as cashier. "If these bills are not redeemable," thought he, as he counted the sum Mr. Elsden had ordered, "I shall never hold my head up again. It staggers me to think of all Christopher has on his mind."
               John Edgar came to the bank to deposit his money after he had received his payment. Max declined taking it, and John was of course offended, for he at once supposed that Mr. Maxwell intended this refusal as a personal affront. He had been more suspicious of Max than he liked to own to himself, ever since Max had employed Edna to draw his likeness. The latter saw that he was not understood, and said,—and much it cost him:—
               "I shall not take a dollar of any man's on deposit, if I can help it, until my brother comes back. That may be a fool's way of doing business, but suppose everybody fails and we are dragged down too, you would beg harder to get your money out of the bank than you do to put it in. I'll not receive it, John. Put it in your pocket-book, and do your own banking."
               "You're a gentleman, anyway," said Edgar, "but it is a fool's way of doing business, and I don't know but it would be better for you if you let us deposit. If the bills ain't worth anything, these fellows who go and spend them far and near will make it all the worse for other folks."
               Max reflected on that. "You are right," said he. "I will take your money if you wish it. The Boyds will be good for every dollar in the long run. Christopher is n't the man I take him for, if he lets a poor fellow lose by him." And after that he felt easier about that note for six hundred and ninety-five dollars which the doctor had told him belonged to Edna Gell. And so, when the miners came to deposit, he wrote down the amounts in their little tle bank-books, and charged the bank, and business went on as usual.
               "We're going to the devil," wrote Christopher to Mr. Elsden. "It looks now like ten cents on a dollar in less than a month's time. But tell Max we shall work our way out, sure as thunder."
               Maxwell himself received a letter by the same mail from Christopher, in which the elder brother made as explicit a statement of the condition of affairs as was possible at the time. He instructed Max how to proceed, and concluded in the most hopeful strain. The spirit of this man had never fallen down and worshipped the work of his own hands.
               Max went at once to the superintendent's office with his letter, and found Mr. Elsden there alone. That gentleman at once laid before him Christopher's communication.
               "I expected it," said Max, when he had read it. "That letter was written after the one which I have just received. I wish Christopher would come home. What will you do, Mr. Elsden?"
               "Just what he has suggested. The business here is but an item, as I have told you before. It can be managed easily. The men have had one strike since I undertook the charge. They lost more time and money then than it is likely they will do now."
               "Poor fellows! they can't afford to lose! I am sure Christopher will be sorry for them. If it was only to be stripped clean of everything, that could be endured, but ten cents on a dollar!"
               "O, your brother may have overstated it a little; but debt is a burden. I have carried a load and know. Still, you must keep up a stiff upper lip, as they say. You are young, and your brother has all in him there ever was."
               "You mean he has in him the makeup of a dozen ordinary men," said Max, brightening a little, at the thought of Christopher.
               "You are right," responded Mr. Elsden. "I have n't the slightest doubt that Christopher Boyd will come out of this difficulty right side up and right foot foremost."
               But when Mr. Elsden saw John Edgar, he was reminded of other interests. He seized his opportunity at once, and said: "If we had the money to operate with, there would be no difficulty about beginning on Pit Hole any day; Mr. Boyd's business is nearly wound up here, and it would make matters easier if the miners—they are no better than a lot of children—could have their attention turned in a new direction."
               Then was John Edgar led up into the mountain to be tempted there.
               Not knowing whither the question might conduct, he asked, "Will all this property be sold out around here?"
               "I don't see any other way," he was answered. "It is a kind of property that is constantly changing hands. Not so wonderful as you seem to think. Mr. Boyd took hold of the mines and gave an impetus to all the interests of all the region by his enterprise, and now it seems as if he had finished his part. Well, that is the way we are retired, when we least expect it, and whether we will or no."
               "Shall we be likely to go through the same experience?"
               "Very likely. Unless we know when we are well off, and go before we are ordered off."
               "What is to be done about Hook, sir?" asked John, who had his suspicions concerning that mine,—suspicions which the present moment seemed favorable for verifying or for dissipating.
               "Hook is a bad bargain for whoever wants coal," said Mr. Elsden, unconcernedly.
               "Do you really think so, sir?"
               "What have I always said?"
               "You have said there was coal enough there, if it was worked the right way."
               "Are you going to dispute it?"
               "No. I believe there is."
               "But it proved a sink for Boyd's money, because we went to work wrong."
               "But, Mr. Elsden," said John, his voice unconsciously taking a lower tone, and apparently not quite certain how the information he conveyed would be received, "Pit Hole is n't to be compared with Hook for iron."
               The superintendent looked quietly at John Edgar as he made this statement. His impassive face betrayed nothing. "When did you find that out?" said he; and then, without waiting for answer, he went on: "If you had the money, John, you might buy Hook yourself. If a miracle happens to hinder, it will not be in the market. Otherwise it will."
               John was as dumb as if he had nothing to say to this proposition.
               "You would n't be required to pay a dollar down within six months," continued Mr. Elsden; "drive business, man, drive! and within a year your fortune will be made. You may sing a lively tune then for the rest of your life; take Edna and go abroad; get a degree of any university before you are thirty; do what you will."
               "But," said John, after a long pause, which Mr. Elsden gave him for reflection,—"but Mr. Boyd sells Hook for coal, if he sells."
               "Hook will be in the hands of his creditors before you see him back here again. Say he throws coal into the market. 'What's in a name?' buy, and find out you have iron. All the better for you. Must you shut your eyes, because the next man can't see? Mr. Boyd's creditors sell what they consider a worthless mine; you buy what you know to be a valuable one. Both parties are satisfied. Hook has about as bad a reputation in the market as a mine can have" ("thanks to me" he did not add). "The Ridge will go high even in these times. Mr. Boyd will be able to do much better, very much better, than ten cents on a dollar. I am speaking to you, John, in business language. A man can know nothing of friendship in business transactions. There's as little romance in business as in mathematics. I am speaking to you as I would to a son. It is a long time since I ceased to think of you as one of the workmen merely."
               That last sentence was well expressed and timely. John felt the force of it. The business aspect of things was different from anything he had supposed; still, should he assume that his hands were whiter than Mr. Elsden's? It was not likely that he would shrink when that gentleman walked forward at his own dignified pace to take the place which was about to be vacated by Mr. Boyd.
               "Business is business," said Mr. Elsden again, when he fancied he saw something like indecision in John's face. "The man who neglects to look out for himself, in his fancied obligation to look after everybody else in the world, is n't a fit person to fill any responsible position. That is all that can be said of him. Self-defence and self-preservation, sir, are among our first duties. A business man has himself to be true to, first of all. He must see to it that society has an efficient man in him. There is no reason why one man should prosper rather than another, except this: he is more efficient. The true philosopher is neither defeated by his failures, nor elated beyond measure by successes. Christopher Boyd cannot really go to the wall, so don't waste sympathy on him, but look out for yourself, and see if this commotion discloses a foothold for you."
               Afterwards, in thinking of all that had been spoken in this interview, John Edgar's mind took note of two hints which Mr. Elsden had thrown out, and he determined to profit by them. First, the present was his opportunity; rightly improved, the path, as the tide, would "lead on to fame and fortune." He resolved to seize the golden moment. And second, it was impossible not to understand the hint that Edna's money, judiciously employed at the present juncture, or in the operations which were presently to be entered upon, would prove the important auxiliary to success.
               His imagination, seizing hold of the ideas suggested, became bold,—foreign travel, university honors, wealth,—what! was he to be hindered by a girl's qualms, or a woman's reported excellence? He actually nerved himself to go down and ask of Mrs. Holcombe the information which he began to see Edna would never require in her own behalf. And he thought as he went that it would be a good thing to drop into Detwiler's office before long, and let him know how his affairs were prospering pering. But no, the community itself would hasten to inform the doctor when prosperity was once secured.
               But when he looked at the bishop's wife, John found it was impossible for him to claim a right of her; the very presence of the honesty he had intended to arraign silenced him. He was ashamed even in the presence of himself. He must proceed in some other way. Perhaps, then, Mr. Elsden could show it him. Doubtless Mr. Elsden could.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               JOHN WOULD DINE OUT AS A GENTLEMAN.
               MAXWELL BOYD found his way to the bishop's house more easily, and still not easily. He had conferred with Mr. Elsden on the state of affairs, and his perplexities and anxieties had found no relief. In the discussion of business between them, there was wanting that which would have sufficed him,—given him, if not confidence in the prosperous issue of events, some ease of mind, and a strength that would have enabled him to look difficulty in the face without flinching. The vision of ruin could not under any circumstances have been agreeable, but it could have been less than terrible, if just now his confidence in Mr. Elsden had not nearly failed him. A simulated friendship will not answer the need of him who is in the fight with foes; the beautiful trumpery in which a selfish spirit may disguise itself is no more than worthless rags to the unsealed eyes of dying hope. Away with it!
               Max felt forsaken, and that feeling alone would have led him to Mrs. Holcombe, but he had also another reason for going. He wished to assure her, if any rumor had reached her ears, that all persons holding any claims against his brother at the bank, or elsewhere, would in the long run not be losers. It would relieve him to say this, not only because of Miss Edna's note, but because he knew that soon the poor miners and farmers round about would be cursing the name of Boyd, and he wanted Mrs. Holcombe to know that Christopher's failure did not compromise his brother's honor; that there was no fraud anywhere; that it had been brought about solely by an enterprise which everybody had extolled,—an enterprise which impelled Christopher to keep his capital afloat, when he might have secured it for his own personal benefit: if Max could make her see that, he would be satisfied.
               He did as he had proposed to himself; he did tell her everything. And he had not been mistaken in Mrs. Holcombe. She knew now, as she had always known, how to sympathize with trouble, perplexity, and sorrow. The impoverished in heart and in fortune found in her always a helper, and a helper Max found her. She felt for the wounded pride, the conscious integrity, which must consent to wear a stain. Christopher Boyd had a pledged friend in Swatara from the moment when Max had told his story, and the bank a creditor in the preacher's house who would be content to wait until just debts could justly be paid.
               "I see," she said, as he went from point to point, and ended by saying that his brother would suffer most of all, thinking of the people, because they might be put to temporary loss, for Christopher had himself known what it was to be poor. She did see and understand. What sorrow or anxiety did she not comprehend?
               "God bless you!" said Max as he left her; and her face brightened as if the benediction had an untold value.
               On his way home from that visit, Max walked with a light step. Now and then he sang a line or two of a gay song. The aspect of affairs had changed to him. The faces of the miners whom he met were no longer dark with threatening frowns.
               Walking past the engine-house, he saw John Edgar in the midst of a group of workmen, talking busily. Max beckoned, and said: "Come and dine with me, I am confoundedly lonesome at the house."
               John looked down. He was not willing that Maxwell or any one should see the pleasure this invitation gave him.
               "Come," said Max, again, "you're not going to decline. I want to talk, and to hear you talk."
               "Thank you, sir," said John.
               "You're welcome." Then they both laughed, and they walked away together.
               "I want to show you some books," Max explained, as they took the road leading to Christopher's house. "The place is as solemn as the grave since my brother went away..... We shall have a splendid sunset." He seemed to be reading a bill of fare to Edgar, seeking to make him see that it was worth his while to go with him.
               "I have been to see Mrs. Holcombe," he continued after a moment, while John was thinking of something to say. "I wanted to tell her how things stood, for she knows everybody, and it's killing to think of what people will say about Christopher." It never seemed to enter Maxwell's head that he was promising perhaps too freely for his brother. His confidence in Christopher's integrity was without a flaw. He was able to speak after this fashion to John, because Mrs. Holcombe had received his communication in so generous a spirit.
               "It's a thing that's happening now every day, I'm told," said John. "They say you can't take up a newspaper but you'll read of a big failure somewhere. And just now there's appearance of a general smash."
               "It does n't happen every day, though, that a man like Christopher is washed high and dry."
               "You're right there. But though failure is ruin for some folks, it is n't for his kind."
               "You are right, John. You always liked Christopher," said Max, well pleased. "Debt will be so much stimulus to him. But I don't like it, I tell you, to see him so bothered."
               "What did Mrs. Holcombe say?"
               "Say! What would she say? I declare I love that woman. I could go through anything to serve her! She shall lose nothing by us,—nor any of them. Everybody must know that my brother is a first-class business man,—none of your speculating rogues. He has always done a legitimate business, honorable, outright. If he fails, he'll not keep a dollar to call his own. I remember, John, when I first came here you told me how much you liked Christopher, and that made me like you first."
               John winced, but he answered heartily: "I never saw a man to equal Mr. Boyd, according to my notions."
               He did not return Maxwell's look though, and so missed the gratitude there was in it.
               He seemed to be observing the western sky; and Maxwell's eyes followed in the same direction.
               "Is n't that great?" he exclaimed.
               A slight mist was rising from the valley; the solemnity of twilight was over the green earth, the purple hills, and the golden sky. "Such a scene as that makes one feel contemptible when one has been worrying all day," said he. "One can't worry very well up here, except when one is alone and it rains, as it did last night. I felt as if I never wanted to come back when I left the house this morning. But come in and look at the books and things. Make yourself at home. You'll find something to amuse you."
               After a moment Max left John alone in the parlor and went to give orders in the stable-yard. John looked around him. He tried to imagine himself at home,—Edna somewhere within call. To secure such a realm, what could he not do and dare!
               As he gazed around, the first thing he perceived with any distinctness was the likeness of Rosa Holcombe lying in a costly frame on the centre-table. When Max came in he was walking about the room.
               "That is one of Barlow's—you know him; and you know the point that was taken from, Edgar, don't you?" said Max, going up to John and taking his arm in a very friendly manner; and so they stood for a moment looking at the picture, and talking about its truthfulness, and the splendor of the coloring.
               Then it came about that the portrait of little Rosa was brought under inspection, and Maxwell said: "You have helped Miss Edna a good deal, John, in her drawing."
               
               To which John answered modestly, "O, not worth mentioning."
               But Max persisted in thinking that it was worth mentioning, and wanted to know how it came about. John didn't know; he had really forgotten.
               "But there must have been a beginning. She must have found out that she wanted to draw."
               "Well, as near as I can recollect," said John, not so awkwardly as ungraciously, for he had not come here to talk about Edna for Mr. Max Boyd's edification, "she was in the shop one day with some folks, and she saw what I was doing, and told me that she had been trying to copy some things from an old book. I had good pencils, too, and she had none, to speak of. And so things went on till"—he hesitated, and decided it was best to go on—"till they came to their present pass between us."
               Max looked around at John quickly, and in great wonder. There was not the least effort to conceal the surprise he felt.
               "It seems as though you must have something more to say after that," said he.
               "I don't know as there's anything more to say, but there's a good deal to do," answered John.
               "Eh? what now?"
               "Marry her, sir, of course. Get ready for it, first."
               "You, Edgar!" But the exclamation had no sooner escaped Max than he added: "Excuse me, but I never thought of that. I am surprised."
               The surprise was in itself enough to excite John's anger.
               "I don't know as it's necessary for you to be thinking about it anyway, surprise or no surprise," said he. "It's my business, you know, not yours."
               "Don't be foolish," said Max. "Of course it's none of my business. I acknowledge it. Only, do you mean when you say that you are going to marry her, that you are engaged, you two?"
               "Yes, I mean that. I suppose a girl's consent is all that is necessary when a man has made up his mind that he must have her."
               "You are a lucky fellow," said Max. "She is the finest girl I've seen. She will make a splendid woman."
               "Is that why you were so surprised?" asked John. He had been looking around for his cap, and now picked it up and put it on.
               "Come to dinner and we will talk about it," said Max; and he stretched out his arm to possess himself of the cap, but he had seriously offended Edgar.
               "I have some business to attend to; I must go. I don't know what I was thinking of to come up," he said; "but I thought you needed me. You don't, I see. So, good evening."
               Max did not laugh at this. He said: "Very well, sir, I am sorry. Good night"; and he neither dined nor slept that night. Troubled and vexed as he was already, his guest had added tenfold to the vexation and the trouble.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               BOYD'S FAREWELL ADDRESS.
               IN a day or two Christopher Boyd came home. Mr. Elsden had told John that before they saw him again the mining property would have been made over to his creditors, and in this he was not mistaken.
               The first time John saw the superintendent after Mr. Boyd's return, that gentleman said to him: "We can buy if we please. I know the men who have Hook. They will turn the property over to me and be glad to get rid of it."
               "But,—" said John; this looked so very much like double-dealing that he did not feel equal to it. And yet it was Mr. Elsden, a genuine gentleman, and a skilful business man, who proposed it. Gentleman and business man he had resolved to be; and so, though he said "but," he seriously considered the proposal, and expected nothing besides a turning over of the property to Mr. Elsden. The superintendent, perceiving what was passing through his mind, concealed his impatience at the necessity of dwelling on the preliminaries, and said with a rather surprised superiority: "There are no buts about it. You talk as if this were not legitimate business. That is because you know so little about it. Boyd had completed his arrangements before he came back. He did not consult me. It's not my business to follow him like a dog and look out that he makes no mistakes. He considers himself abundantly able to transact his own business, and so do I. He is going away from here; and, as I told you, there is no such thing as putting him down. Learn something from his conduct. He is going into new operations at once, and I haven't a doubt that he will pay all his debts within three years. I shall stay here on account of Pit Hole, and for other reasons. Hook must be worked by somebody. The parties who are going to take hold of the Ridge will superintend for themselves. You see, Edgar, the train is moving on; I advise you to jump aboard. We shall hear more about that other business in a day or two at furthest, I think."
               There was vigor in Mr. Elsden's words. His entire aspect seemed to have changed within a few days. His time had come,—that good time which had been so long in coming. All the world was moving on. Would John Edgar move along with it, or would he lag behind? Be somebody's man, or his own man, henceforth and forever?
               With such a guide it was impossible that the young man should hesitate long. In that very hour he made his calling and election sure.
               Yes, Christopher Boyd had come back, and it was plain to see that he had been off on no pleasure trip. The men who saw him when he stepped from the train at the Emerald station, said that he looked fifty years older than when he went away. He had been working day and night since he went. All Swatara, since the day of the first settler, had not computed so many figures, looked into so many interests, examined so many claims, acknowledged so many responsibilities, faced so many risks, as this man since he left the mountains one week ago. He came back sane, sober, equal to himself, more than a match for fortune; having not once felt tempted to blow his brains out, run away, or get himself reported drowned. He esteemed himself, though merely one man, more important than a railroad, or a coal-mine, or a bank, or than all three combined. Still, he was made of flesh and blood, and had felt an honorable pride in his successes, and had valued his good name when it was a power; he told Max when they met that he had been through hell since he went away.
               After all he had experienced it would perhaps seem to him a small matter that these miners should lose the sums of money they had deposited in his bank. But it was not so; when he went down among the men and told them that the mining business would now be carried on by a new company, but that the superintendent would remain there as before, and somebody had the courage to ask if it was true that hard-working chaps like them must lose all their earnings, he cried out, "Say that again!" as if he had been insulted by a friend.
               The man had courage to repeat the question, for he knew when Mr. Boyd spoke that way that he would answer the men as they had a right to expect.
               "Did you think, any of you," said Christopher, "that I was going away without settling all these matters fair and square? There isn't one of you that will lose a dollar by me. You shall have your wages cent for cent, and I'll give you my note on that. I am sorry to put you to inconvenience and make you wait; but you must try to be patient, for you see all this came very sudden on me."
               "Be n't you going to stay here, sir, then?" asked another of the men, with by no means the voice of an angry creditor.
               "No, my boy, I'm going out West; but do you stay here, every soul of you, and you shall have your money. I shall keep Mr. Elsden informed where I am. You understand I'm going to earn the money to pay my honest debts to you, for I'm broke an honest man. I have n't laid up any funds for my own use anywhere. But I've got as much as any of you have. I have my hands and my feet, and the head on my shoulders which God Almighty put there for me."
               
               That was all. Christopher had made his farewell address. The men raised a cheer, and they all honored him. He had come into Swatara in a coach and four, as one might say, and was going out of it on foot; but his flag was flying still, and his trumpet sounding. Mr. Elsden, in the rising scale, might even have envied Mr. Boyd.
               Christopher had accepted the office of superintendent of a Missouri railroad.
               "Will you go with me, Max?" he asked, when they were alone. He dreaded to ask that question; almost feared to hear the answer. He knew that if power had given him success, success had conferred the power upon him which was felt by men in general. For the first time since this storm of fortune his eyes were wet with tears, when Max answered, "To the world's end, Christopher!"
               It was not loss of money that could impoverish this good man. Maxwell's love could enrich him. Everything else might go; Barlow's pictures, even; but he had still his young brother's diploma, and Max himself, to make good all his promises.
               Was Max going into exile though, because going from Swatara and from Mrs. Delia Holcombe?
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               THE BOOKS SHALL BE OPENED.
               THE evening train that brought Mr. Boyd to Emerald brought also the mail from all the country round. One letter was delivered to Dr. Detwiler; he read it in his office at twilight, and after that paced the floor till daybreak.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Dear fellow," it began. He glanced from this familiar address to the signature, and saw a name that made him read as if the contents must be of vital importance. "I have just read your article in the Eclectic, and shake hands with you on it. It has the right ring; and then, and moreover, it tells me of your whereabouts. I am helped out of a difficulty; at least I am greatly relieved. Last week I received a letter from your region, informing me that an heir to the Rolfe estate was living in Swatara. The letter had no signature, and I should have been tempted to throw it aside, and wait what would follow, had I not met with your article, which seems to show a direct way of getting at facts. It seems to me incredible that there should be an heir, and you not know it, and no claim made, till now, to the property which Rolfe's sister bequeathed to me for Asylum purposes. What do you know about it? Nothing, of course, or you would have notified me. But can you find out anything?—where this letter came from, for instance? If I were quite confident that there was no mistake about your address, I should enclose it; but a man exposes himself and others to difficulties, as you will now perceive, when he goes off and buries himself in the wilderness.
                           "The letter was written two weeks since, by an unpractised penman evidently, but legibly enough. As to matter, it is explicit. It claims that the heir is a young lady about seventeen years of age, who can be identified as Rolfe's daughter and legal heir, if I will come to Swatara. Of course, if the claim can be substantiated, I will come at once.
                           "Write me if I shall come up, and where I shall find you.
                           
                              "Yours,
                              "ELK. JOHNSON."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Early in the morning, Lightfoot was carrying the doctor up through the fog towards the mines. Detwiler rode, knowing whither he went; proceeding directly to the machine-shop, he found John Edgar there already at work. "What is all this I hear about Mr. Boyd?" he asked, going to the table, with his usual directness of action and of speech.
               "He's done for," answered John, a little disturbed, evidently, by this visit from the doctor at so unusual an hour.
               "Failed?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Going away?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Is it possible? What becomes of all the hands then?"
               In spite of the interest evinced by his questions, the doctor carried an atmosphere with him which to John seemed as raw and cold as that of the morning.
               "They stay, the most of them," he answered, coloring slightly.
               "You, too?"
               "O yes, certainly. For a while, at least. The works will go on as before, only with other proprietors."
               "That is the fact about a good many other things besides coal-mines. The world will go on just the same after we all stop. What can we do about that, eh?"
               As he talked, the doctor was walking about and looking at everything, in the way he always did when he visited the shop; there was a good deal there to interest a man like him.
               "Do?" said John. "I don't know as anything."
               "We can behave well, at least, as Boyd has done, according to report. Mr. Elsden stays?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "I am sorry about Boyd. Sorry about the young man, too. He is such a clean fellow, and plenty of brain of the best quality..... O, John, do you happen to know anybody in Bath?"
               "Bath?.... no, sir."
               "Not Dr. Johnson?"
               Edgar hesitated, and then saw that there was but one answer for him to make. "I have heard of him," he said.
               "I received a letter from him last night. I want you to go down with me to see the folks at the bishop's, Edgar. This matter must be looked into."
               "I had rather not," said John, and as far as was possible he meant to express a flat refusal to accompany Detwiler. But the doctor took little notice of his reply.
               "It is n't whether you like it or not," said he, an unquestioning right to direct in the matter expressing itself in the tone of his voice and the glance of his eye, as well as in his words. "I don't like it, either. It's a very awkward piece of business, indeed. But that don't help us any way. I must answer Dr. Johnson, and before I do so I must talk with Mrs. Holcombe and Edna."
               "You can do that without me, sir."
               "On the contrary, I cannot go one inch without you. It is your business rather than mine; but this letter compels me to see what is to be done. Do you know who wrote to Dr. Johnson?"
               "I think I can guess."
               "Very well. So do I. Come, then, I can't give much time to the business, but I must attend to it the first thing, as you see, to get it off my mind."
               "The time has come," thought John; and he would have been equal to the moment, could he have conferred but for one instant, were it even in the doctor's presence, with Mr. Elsden. But there was no possibility of that; and it rather pleased the doctor that he should have been able to decide so promptly that it would be best to proceed at once to this interview.
               Detwiler mounted his horse again, and John followed on foot; so through the morning mists they came to Bishop Holcombe's house.
               Before they had crossed the creek the sun shone through the mists; light fell on the bright little garden, on the old cottage guarded on three sides by the hills,—on the wide valley, and on the wooded heights. But neither the man who forded the stream on horseback, nor he who crossed the bridge, noticed the fact. Detwiler only noticed that the minister's family was probably not alone.
               "Is n't that Deacon Ent's horse and wagon?" he asked.
               John stopped to look at the beautiful animal. "Yes, there's no mistaking that Indian pony," he said. He could have talked an hour on the points of the creature; not that he was a horse-fancier, or a judge of any kind of natural beauty,—but time was either of the least or else of the very greatest consequence to him this morning.
               The doctor was conscious of a moment's vacillation when he saw that the church might have its witness in this pending interview. But he reminded himself, "The time has come. Edna shall be saved from this young brute. I can trust Delia Holcombe to manage her own case."
               
               When he entered the house, he found Mrs. Holcombe and Edna in the kitchen, and saw that the bishop was also in the house, and preparing to go away. He and his deacon had apparently been discussing some church business, and the conference had come to an end.
               Ent was now telling Mrs. Holcombe that Father Trost was suffering a good deal, and that last night he had said he was in hopes she would come to see him, that he expected her, indeed, every day; and August was also expressing his own opinion that this was the old man's last sickness, or that, if he recovered, he would never be able to resume preaching.
               He was speaking, Delia listening, when they all saw the doctor coming toward the house, followed by John Edgar. Edna saw more than the two figures,—something in their faces which alarmed her. For a moment she looked as if meditating a flight, but then almost instantly she felt the doctor's hand upon her shoulder, and something in his strong voice reassured her. He addressed himself to Delia, and his words told her that her hour had come.
               "We have come to see you on some business," he said.
               Was it to prove an hour of deliverance? If so, Delia must still meet in it the gaze of the girl who stood there, and be judged by her! Not so much did she fear the sentence of the Lord, before whom she had bowed, a suppliant with ashes on her head, these many years, as that which should proceed from her child's lips.
               The bishop, who had not heard the doctor's words, came now and grasped his hand, with salute and farewell in his cordial "Good morning, brother."
               "You have come at a fortunate moment, doctor," said Delia, a little hurriedly, for it was borne in upon her that an opportunity had come which it would be to her ruin to refuse,—an opportunity to speak for the truth and against herself before Friend Holcombe; "my husband would have been away in two minutes, and you know we cannot transact business of importance without him."
               The doctor had not calculated wrongly: whatever might follow what he had to say, he felt that he might leave the result in Delia's hands.
               "I have a letter here from my old friend, Dr. Johnson of Bath," said he. "John Edgar, or somebody else, has been giving him information that Edward Rolfe left an heir in Swatara. Do you think it's likely? Can you tell us anything about it?"
               He looked from Delia to Friend Holcombe; but they were looking at Edna, and his gaze followed theirs.
               She was standing an image of terror, and of unforgiving reproach, with her eyes fixed upon John.
               "What have you done!" she exclaimed, taking one single step towards him, and pausing then, confused, and rent by her remembrances of love, by her pity, and her wrath.
               "I have been looking out for your rights, since there was nobody else to do it," he answered, not defiant or dogged, for it was to Edna he was speaking, but sufficiently resolute to maintain the ground he held.
               "Perhaps you can tell us what this means, then," said the doctor, turning to him.
               "I can tell you," replied Edgar, facing him, and answering sharply,—"I can tell you that I am pretty certain that Miss Edna is the daughter of Mr. Rolfe, and that there's a large property that belongs to her by right. I am willing to stake most anything on that."
               "Is that all you can tell?" asked Delia.
               Edgar was silent. He looked neither at the questioner nor at Edna; he was facing Detwiler, and accounting him his enemy.
               "I can tell you more than that," continued Delia. "You need not spend any more time searching out the mystery. Edna is mine. She is my child. She is my daughter. Tell Dr. Johnson to go and ask Father Trost for information. He married Edward Rolfe and me. Young man, do you hear?"
               It was a terrible moment in John Edgar's life when the eyes of Delia Holcombe fell upon him. His face became scarlet, and then pale. He trembled in every nerve, and felt as if he were about to fall. At last, he turned quite away from her, as if to break a spell which he felt to be intolerable.
               He looked at Edna, at the doctor, and his last hope fled. If he had felt secure in having won that girl, he had now in himself incontestable evidence that he had lost her forever. But he must speak. He answered Mrs. Holcombe. "No, madam," he said, "I have not heard. Doctor, it was devilish if you brought me for this. I could not suspect—that Mrs. Holcombe—"
               "Go!" said Edna, suddenly; and she said no more, nor was it needful that she should.
               "Your father would have commanded the same thing," said the doctor in a low voice. Then he looked at Delia. She stood with a gaze piercing eternity.
               But something in time touched her. She had for her part said all. She had done with earth. What could command her, of all duties or cares now? Love, springing as it were from the grave, and with the warmth of passion throwing itself on her bosom.
               "O my mother!" said its voice. "Look at me! kiss me! speak to me!"
               Delia's face bent. Her eyes lowered. She had not dared to meet the gaze that sought them; and yet, meeting it, she saw only love and pity.
               Then she turned away from the child. Friend Holcombe was standing there as if he had been struck dumb. Death could not have so utterly removed his wife from him as had the disclosure of these last moments.
               Her glance toward him seemed to unlock his lips. "Delia, why did you keep this to yourself?" said he.
               She shook her head in dumb distress; at last she found voice to say, "I loved you."
               "It is the truth," the doctor silently commented; "she could say nothing better."
               But Friend Holcombe could not receive it. He could not smile and speak tender and soothing words to her, and so make nothing of this offence. He did not open his arms, he stood with them folded on his breast.
               "Could it be love?" he said. "I reckoned your love better than anything else in this world, Delia."
               "I know you did. I could not bear to let you see the truth. I had no right to keep the place I held so long. See how God has driven me from it at last. I say, His will be done. I am no hypocrite now."
               "God open his eyes to see what this woman is!" prayed the doctor.
               "Do not say He has banished you; but I feel as if the world were in ruins," said Mr. Holcombe. He sat down and buried his face in his hands; and he had not used too strong language to express his thought.
               Then came, clear and steady, the voice of Delia to comfort him. "God can make a new world for you, Friend. He will; but first—" then she looked at the doctor, and spoke more rapidly—"I have something to do first. Will you go up to see Father Trost with me? Come, all of you. He will certify that I have spoken truth."
               "Delia, do you think that I need evidence? No, I do not..... Your word is sufficient."
               "But for this child's sake," said Detwiler, now speaking. "Yes, Friend, let us go for that testimony. If we wait, it may be too late. Trost is failing every day."
               He arose as he spoke. He was ready to go at once, or to assist in any preparations that would hasten their departure. Anything to quicken the action of Friend Holcombe's brain.
               "For the child's sake, we will go," said the bishop, at length, and he walked out of the room; then he looked back. "Where is Ent?" he said, surprised that he did not find him waiting.
               The doctor went to the door and called, and the deacon, who had been walking in the garden, came, and they all saw that there was no need of explaining the business before them to him. After a moment's hesitation he went to Mrs. Holcombe and said:—
               "I understand now why you were so kind to us. Mary says she loves you as if you were her mother. I thank you for what you have done for us."
               "Yes," she answered, "the gracious Lord permitted me to save you from an hour like this."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               THE TRIUMPH OF "SYSTEM."
               ABOUT noon this party stood under the roof of Father Trost.
               The old man was not to be disappointed; on this day the expectation of years was to be rewarded.
               "Come," said Delia to Mary, whom she found in the kitchen porch,—"come and hear why I trembled for you, child."
               There is no judgment so searching, so terrible, as that which the righteous will pass upon himself. The weapons of warfare were forever removed from the hands of Father Trost when he heard Delia Holcombe, standing by his bedside, say, before these witnesses:—
               "Father Trost, I have come to ask you to certify to what you could not write for me."
               The old man looked around upon these persons Mary had brought into his room, astonished. From one face to another his eyes wandered, and in the soul of him he felt abashed. But only for a moment. He had expected that Mrs. Holcombe would come; he had looked for her all the week; he had expressed to Ent, who had been so kind during his sickness, a desire to see her, which had in part occasioned his early visit at the bishop's house that morning; but he did not expect to see her come attended by this cloud of witnesses; and there was something so grand in her aspect, the solemnity of her bearing so much impressed him, that he must now think of her as anything but a criminal brought before him for judgment.
               That was a great moment; perhaps the great moment of life for him. But it saw the sword that was in his hand turned against himself. What ailed him? His lips moved, but, when they listened for the words which should come forth, no words came. The lips that had reviled would revile no more. The testimony which he had rejoiced to know must be asked of him in the presence of witnesses was asked of him, and lo! his mouth was shut.
               The doctor stepped towards the bed, after a minute of this ineffectual effort to speak had passed. He bent his ear towards Trost: even one witness would suffice, and he would be that witness; but in an instant he lifted his head again. "Paralysis," he said, turning to Friend Holcombe and the deacon.
               Then the people whom Trost had fought as the enemies of righteousness showed themselves his friends, and the Hall of Judgment became the Court of Charity.
               "He will not recover from that stroke; his hours are numbered," said the doctor, a little later. "Holcombe, you had better go home. Delia insists on staying with Mary over night. Edna can go with you. I shall stay."
               Mr. Holcombe was fortunate in having Detwiler to direct him, and he obeyed. Was it probable that he would ever forget the words of Edna as he closed Trost's gate behind him,—
               "Have I lost a father to-day, Mr. Holcombe, as well as found one?"
               He did not instantly answer; but after a brief pause he said: "The Lord bless you, my child! my daughter from the hand of the Lord." And then he stooped and kissed her.
               Father Trost was living yet, and had before him the possibility of many days of life, when Bishop Holcombe summoned Deacon Ent to attend a church meeting in the Valley meetinghouse.
               The announcement that the meeting would be held had been made on the preceding Sunday, and the bishop explained the nature of the business then to be considered to the deacon when he said: "My wife will expect you. Do not fail us."
               He could say no more, but that sufficed.
               "Father Trost will have no more testimony to bring against us in this world," said August, as if impelled to attempt the rescue of a precious life in peril.
               "Delia will have it so," Friend Holcombe answered. "I abide by her decision."
               This was the simple fact. He had waited to learn the course that Delia would take, and had stood prepared to resign his office if she should decide that the time for a public confession had forever passed.
               "I owe confession to our people, and to my gracious Lord," said she; and she did not add that she owed it to herself,—the self that died so long ago.
               It was but a small company that assembled for that week-day meeting. A few only of the more zealous of the brethren came from farm and workshop to discuss the business the bishop had to lay before them,—attempted to lay before them, I should say. He broke down in the words with which he endeavored to prepare Delia's confession. Then she arose, and underneath her were those everlasting arms which never yet failed a human creature that relied on them in utmost peril and extremest need. The homage of a mortal's faith is justified of The Almighty. So she stood, and saw, as it were, heaven open, and pitying angels waiting for her words.
               The pathos and the power of her voice, as she acknowledged her false discipleship, and thanked Him who had at last brought her to that place and hour, praying man's forgiveness, as she had sought that of Heaven, moved the most stolid heart in the little company. What need to dwell on the astonishment occasioned by her words? It was short-lived, indeed; and when Deacon Ahern arose and said, "Let him that is without sin condemn this woman," the record of her life among them seemed to force itself in between the people and that testimony she had given against herself.
               So they received her back who, while she stood so conspicuously among them, had carried the sense of exile in her heart. The sun shone, the birds sang, the earth and the heavens were glad. Delia was at home once more. When she looked around her no face was turned away. No eyes were averted. They all loved her. They loved and honored her who had so loved and honored them. She was not to be wounded here in the house of friends.
               Indeed it almost seemed, when she stood among that little company after the meeting was dismissed, as if she had come there for congratulation and for homage. But if there were deep-seeing eyes in the congregation that day, they saw that the pitcher was broken at the fountain.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               CROOKED PATHS MADE STRAIGHT.
               WHEN John Edgar left Bishop Holcombe's house it seemed to him that he was retiring from a field on which he had fought with Dr. Detwiler,—and as a vanquished man.
               He considered, and determined that he must get away from Swatara. It appeared to him, as he looked over the past months, that he had permitted himself to be led on, if one could imagine such a thing, to destruction, by Mr. Elsden. Unformed in character, ambitious, destitute of clearly perceived aims, he had been imposed upon where he could most easily be imposed upon, by the name which should, as he believed it did, involve all courtesy, chivalry, generosity, and magnanimity, every power of duty, every possibility of love,—the name of gentleman.
               He sat down in his workshop after the interview in the minister's house, and said to himself: "Mr. Elsden led me wrong. The doctor was right. I am not fit for her." And then he thought of Maxwell Boyd with a fierce spasm of jealousy, as of one who might be worthy of her; and a desire for vengeance leaped within him. But what should he do? He was powerless.
               Nothing could be clearer to him than that he must go away. And he went that night. But before he departed he so far got the better of himself that he penned a note to Maxwell and wished him well, and told him that he had gone to seek his fortune elsewhere; and would he do him the favor to say so to Mr. Elsden? What he had said to him up there at his house about Miss Edna was all folly, as he now saw very plainly. But, though it was very probable that some time he should hear that the young lady was married to a man who was much more worthy of her than he could ever prove, perhaps there was not one living who would love her with more sincerity than he did.
               
               Mr. Elsden was surprised, vexed, and suspicious, when Max told him that John had departed. He had need of him. He could have made the young man greatly useful to himself. Besides, he could have prosecuted Edna's claim with vigor, had it met with obstruction in John's hands. Her money, invested in Pit Hole and in Hook, would have secured a handsome profit. There could be no better investment. He was disappointed and chagrined at the turn affairs had taken, but he was no bungler, and could not in the long run miscalculate.
               It is almost needless to state that he never produced that certificate of which he had accidentally become the holder: there were low-minded persons who might thereupon have misconstrued his friendly relations with Father Trost, and his relations with John Edgar; and so he concluded to destroy the document.
               After the departure of the Boyds he carried out his plans in a manner that justified his expectations. These plans, so carefully laid, failed in no particular. He found parties who became satisfied that there was an abundance of iron-ore in Pit Hole and in Hook, and money was forthcoming for the furtherance of his enterprises. And so he realized at last the dream of years. The debts which had hung like mill-stones around his neck were paid—even those that were outlawed—with the interest accruing.
               Time went on, and he returned to the world, to society, to his books, and to his leisure, leaving behind him Swatara, its mines, and its Mennonites. Honored of the world he lived, and in death accomplished writers of obituaries complimented the successful man. Neither did the gracious grass decline to make beautiful his grave.
               When Father Trost had fought his fight and departed from this life, his granddaughter gave in her testimony that "too far east is west," and joined the people whom the old man had been called to "sift as wheat," and to "try as silver is tried."
               The doctor urged successfully in Mr. Holcombe's house that Edna should be sent away to school. He spoke to Friend and Delia, as he had before spoken to Edna, about his sister and her daughters, and suggested that in justice to Rolfe his daughter should have the best educational advantages that could be secured.
               "Barlow," he said, "is already interested in her progress. He will be more interested, for she has all her father's genius. Her mind craves food. Besides, this business with John has had its influence. If she goes away from here right off, art and nature will cure her; but if she stays, she will be dwelling on what has happened till she gets morbid and miserable. What do you think, Delia?"
               "She must go," said Delia.
               But before she went Detwiler had received a second letter from Dr. Johnson, which contained round figures enough to set the brains of our people to calculating in a way to which they were altogether unaccustomed. The Asylum was now a self-supporting institution, and Dr. Johnson was not disposed to retain the money he happened to hold, when he understood the nature of Edna's claim on Rolfe's estate. In whatever shape Rolfe's money was desired, it should be forthcoming.
               Does anybody consider it a pity that the letter containing this statement was addressed to Dr. Detwiler, instead of John Edgar? John had his work to do, in the world within him and the world without him; and is that man unblessed who has discovered his field, and secured his tools? He might perhaps not have grown away from Edna; but it is not probable that, under the best of circumstances, she would not have grown away from him. She would have been burdened with the care of his life, and have lived for duty long after she had ceased to live for love. In this burden-bearing world some cheerful soul may inquire, "Was she not then the appointed agent of that lad's salvation?" No doubt she was. But the saviours are not all slain for the captives whom they deliver. It was well for John that he had loved Edna,—better for both that he failed in binding her life to his.
               Besides the note addressed to himself, Maxwell found in the shop where John had lived, moved, and had his being, a little package addressed to "Edna Rolfe." The hand of John had been the first to write her name. Max gave the package, containing a book on drawing which John had procured for Edna, and another volume which he had borrowed of her, to Mrs. Holcombe. "Poor fellow!" she said.
               On the day when about to depart with Christopher from Swatara, Maxwell visited the house again, and acknowledged and confided to Delia the great hope that was in his heart, concerning Edna. "If I may ever call you mother," he said, "it will make me as happy almost as it would to call her wife."
               "The Lord bless you," she answered,—" and bless me so much as to give my child to you."
               Christopher had already explained to Mrs. Holcombe, as Max was aware, that foremost among the claims against him he recognized her daughter's.
               The youth left behind him a remembrancer over which Delia spent many a silent hour after he had departed. Half the books he had brought to Swatara he left for Edna; they were books that would help her in her work, books of value to the student.
               Likewise had Edward Rolfe done. And the books and the life were his evidence! Was there evil omen in this?
               The Lord was merciful. Those books were a perpetual reminder to Edna. Had there been in John Edgar that which could have inspired more than pity in the girl's heart, it would be pitiful to record that she put his last gifts out of sight, and gave her mind with all diligence to the books Max left behind him. But John had so rudely torn the ground on which she had stood, that she removed thence, and shuddered to think how in this act he had resembled the blind, awful forces of nature. And Edna could never forget the behavior of Max towards her mother; the reverence, homage, love, which had of him such strong and beautiful expression. He understood Mrs. Holcombe in a way that did honor to himself; and Edna perceived the truth.
               And then he had gone away in trouble, sharing his brother's losses. Yet with such good courage, and so eager to show Christopher that he was worthy of his highest confidence! It was not likely that he would be forgotten in the bishop's house, or that Edna would not carry with her a remembrance of him, pleasant, and more precious than she herself understood, when she went with the doctor from Swatara.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               BEHOLD ALL THINGS ARE MADE NEW.
               ALL winter, letters were carried across the creek to the house in the shadow of the hills. They were carried to and fro. The young man who was working in the distant West, and the girl who gave herself so diligently to her studies in the East, each in the appointed and the chosen sphere, with ardor to good purpose, heard now and then from each other, through the dear guardian of their lives. In the spring they went back again to Bishop Holcombe's house,—Max as his brother's agent, to pay his creditors, Edna and the miners.
               It was a spring of joys to youth. They met at the Emerald Station, and went on to Swatara together. The meeting was not by chance; for Max knew the day appointed for Edna's return, and had accordingly waited through the day for the arrival of the evening train. He thought it would be a happy thing to take her back to her mother; an omen of further good might lurk in such a piece of good fortune. He was the first to welcome Edna home again; but it was evident that the bishop and the doctor could not be far away. So it was that they all went together to the house beyond the river.
               A spring of joys to youth! But while the months had given ever-deepening and enlarged life to these young ones, what had they done for her of whom this tale has been told? Going out of the world! Going down to the grave! They have come, it would seem, to catch the last brightness of her smile, the last glimpse of her departing glory.
               
               Friend Holcombe, who through many a dreary day appeared to see a gulf between himself and Delia, had at last bridged that gulf, as the winter wore away. Man never came so near to woman; life was never more completely merged in life. He had forgiven her, and had said that there was nothing to forgive. She knew there was; but it is gladness to think that, while she knew this, she knew also that she could never lose her husband's love.
               When she saw Edward's daughter coming back with the eager step of happy youth, followed by Maxwell Boyd, strength returned to her soul, and brightness to her dear eyes; she went about the house with the activity of old time; but no new day's gladness could restore the old time's vigor.
               "This can last but a few days. She will spend in a week what she will never get back again," said the doctor to Mr. Holcombe. "But it is her great harvest of joy;—better to die, reaping it."
               But that was a conclusion to which the bishop could not come without tears; and he answered: "You must not leave us again. Stay here; let me feel that we have you, or I cannot bear it."
               But the young eyes were holden. They saw only what a word could explain,—work-weariness,—too constant serving; and Edna said, "I have come to serve in her place, and she shall have rest." So easily would she mend the irreparable breach!
               Maxwell stayed one week in Swatara, and the bishop's house was his home. Before he went away he said to Delia:—
               "I have been speaking to Edna. She has given me—" When he had spoken thus far he took her hand and reverently kissed it. His tears fell fast and hindered his speech.
               "Has God given you to me, Maxwell, for a son?"
               "Mother!"
               Sweeter sound than that could never fall on Delia's ear.
               "Thank God!" she said.
               But the consummation of joy was not for her. It was after she had departed this life that Friend Holcombe pronounced a fatherly and a priestly blessing on the daughter and the son of Delia.
               The doctor was living with him then; and year after year, as the young people came back to set in order the house which was forever sacred to Delia Holcombe's memory, and to make it bright and cheerful through the summer months, they found those two pursuing their labors of love in the patience of hope.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            NEW AND ENTERTAINING WORKS OF FICTION.
            Issued in Octavo Volumes, in Paper Covers.
            
               Foul Play By Charles Reade and Dion Boucicault. Illustrated. Price, 25 cents.
               Griffith Gaunt By Charles Reade. Illustrated. Price, 25 cents.
               The Cloister and the Hearth By Charles Reade. Price, 35 cents.
               Catherine By W. M. Thackeray. Price, 35 cents.
               Edwin Drood and Uncollected Pieces By Charles Dickens. 16 Illustrations. Price, 50 cents.
               Edwin Drood By Charles Dickens. 8 Illustrations. Price, 25 cents.
               American Notes By Charles Dickens. Illustrated. Price, 25 cents.
               Mugby Junction and No Thoroughfare. Two Christmas Stories By Charles Dickens. Price, each, 10 cents.
               Silcote of Silcotes By Henry Kingsley. Price, 75 cents.
               Caleb Williams. Price, 35 cents.
               Too Bright to Last. Price, 35 cents.
            
            
               NEARLY READY.
               Something to Do. 1 vol 8vo. Paper and Cloth.
               The Marquis de Villemer By George Sand. Translated from the French, by Ralph Keeler, 1 vol. 8vo. Paper and cloth.
            
            For sale by all Booksellers. Sent, post-paid, on receipt of price by the Publishers,
            JAMES R. OSGOOD & CO., Publishers, Boston, Late Ticknor & Fields, and Fields, Osgood, & Co.
         
         
            
            CHARLES READE'S NOVELS.
            HOUSEHOLD EDITION COMPLETE.
            UNIFORM, COMPACT, LEGIBLE, HANDSOME, CHEAP.
            The popular Household Edition of Mr. Reade's Complete Novels is comprised in Nine Volumes, as follows:—
            
               Foul Play 1 vol.
               Hard Cash 1 vol.
               White Lies 1 vol.
               Griffith Gaunt 1 vol.
               Love me Little, Love me Long 1 vol.
               Never too Late to Mend 1 vol.
               The Cloister and the Hearth 1 vol.
               Peg Woffington, Christie Johnstone, and Other Stories 1 vol.
               Put Yourself in His Place 1 vol.
            
            Price, $1.00 a volume. The Set in a neat box, $9.00; Half Calf, $20.00.
            "This edition of Charles Reade's novels is somewhat similar in style to the well-known 'Charles Dickens' series, issued by the same firm. The volumes are all neatly bound, well printed, and compact, with the fac-simile signature of Charles Reade prominently displayed on the outside. We are glad to welcome such an acceptable addition to the American library of modern English literature. After Dickens, no English author of the day appeals so directly to all branches of the English-speaking race as Charles Reade. Although most of his works are intensely English in local coloring, his hatred of class injustice, of petty social spites and prejudices, of official wrongs and abuses, and his warm sympathy with all the fresh and true impulses and instincts of humanity, secure for his works appreciative readers wherever the English language is spoken. Charles Reade's works all deserve the widest circle of readers, within whose reach they can be brought, and we are glad to find that the task of placing them before the American public in a tasteful and convenient library form has been undertaken, and so well executed, by those so thoroughly qualified for carrying it out as the publishers of the present series."—New York Times.
            
            "A very pretty edition of Charles Reade's novels, just such a one as has long been desired by his numerous admirers in this country. It can hardly help meeting the success it deserves, from its taste and elegance, no less than from the conspicuous merits of its author."—Liberal Christian.
            
            "The volumes are neatly printed and of convenient size. Mr. Reade is one of the most vigorous of modern writers of fiction. And in all his works he has a high moral aim, as the exposure of some evil that demands correction."—New York Observer.
            
            "The new, uniform, elegant, and cheap edition of Charles Reade is just in time to take the tide of the story-teller's great and deserved popularity."—The Western Bookseller (Chicago).
            
            For sale by all Booksellers. Sent, post-paid, on receipt of price by the Publishers,
            JAMES R. OSGOOD & CO., Boston, Late Ticknor & Field, and Fields, Osgood, & Co.
         
      
   
