
    ----CITATION----
        Cassidy, Patrick Sarsfield, (1852?-). Glenveigh, or, The Victim of Vengeance .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6002 wright2-0475
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               GLENVEIGH,
               OR, THE VICTIMS OF VENGEANCE.
               TALE OF IRISH PEASANT LIFE IN THE PRESENT.
            
            BY PATRICK SARSFIELD CASSIDY.
            
            
               BOSTON:
               PUBLISHED BY PATRICK DONAHOE.
            
            1870.
         
         
            
            PREFACE.
            THE following pages are the result of no stretch of imagination, no creation of
               fancy. The Glenveigh evictions, by which two hundred and forty human beings were cast
               homeless, and, I might add, hopeless, on the waves of the world, must still be fresh
               in the recollection of the most of my readers. Their rents were paid up to the day:
               they committed no crime under heaven to draw such fearful retribution on their heads,
               and its consequent misery was the bitter expiation of no fault, no failing of theirs.
               It was suspected, forsooth, that a few of them were implicated in, and all of them
               aware of, the murder of a Scotch shepherd, to whom the landlord, the infamous John
               George Adair, rented the mountains he took from the tenants; but, as is shown in the
               text, that murder was concocted by Adair himself, and executed by his bastard son and
               his villanous bailiff.
            Adair is the real name of the inhuman ruffian who desolated Glenveigh and
               Derryveigh,—turned them into a howling wilderness, for the gratification of his
               diabolical cruelty. In the text, the name of the landlord is given as Adams, for the
               simple reason that my pen positively refused to write the real one. There is an
               alliterative affinity between Adair, despot and demon,—and, I am persuaded, there is
               a real relations hip between them, also.
            God only knows the subsequent sufferings of those poor people. The pen of the
               recording angel would fail to chronicle them, and the mind of all,
               save that of the all-knowing, would far fail to conceive them.
            I think this an apropos place for a ballad on these
                  wholesale evictions, written by a true Irish gentleman, who,
               though a barrister of the English Bar, has lain in Omagh jail,
               "suspected" of loving his oppressed, impoverished erished, degraded country, and having a strong
               inclination, in common with all Irishmen, to assist in raising his prostrate Erin
               from the slough in which alien oppression has flung and trod her; to wash off the
               slime of slavery, even in the blood of her tyrants, from her fair limbs, and give her
               a new and noble life, enshrined in the Godlike temple of self-government, and basking
               in the invigorating sunshine of a liberty as free in its spirit as the four winds of
               heaven, as broad in its principles, and as deep in its sense of human rights as the
               illimitable ocean.
            The following is the ballad, by Thomas Nielson Underwood, Barrister, Strabane,
               Ireland:—
            
               
                  
                     
                        "GLENVEIGH.
                        
                           I.
                           "Young men and brave of Ireland. I sing this song for you,—
                           There is no land like Ireland, if to yourselves you're true;
                           There is no country like your own, if you would have it so.—
                           Nor crouch like slaves, while there are graves for despots high and
                              low.
                        
                        
                           II.
                           "God never made a man to starve—they preach a lie who say
                           The land was made for thousands, and the millions for
                                 their prey—
                           The millions to endure and die, to perish like the weed.
                           Beneath the curse of alien laws, and brutal, coward greed!
                        
                        
                           III.
                           "Lo! in the wilds of Donegal, where heather-bloom is spread
                           Round lake and cliff, on moor and meen, and to the mountain's
                              head.
                           Our cabin homes, our natal homes, our kindred's homes, were they.
                           Lie ruined by the minions of the spoiler of Glenveigh:
                        
                        
                           IV.
                           "It was a dark and omened hour what time the news was told.
                           The valley of our homesteads was to a stranger sold:
                           
                              A savage-hearted Scotchman, who doomed our race to
                              tears.
                           Though they had dwelt within the glen for twice a thousand years.
                        
                        
                           V.
                           "Upon a bitter morn in March, the ruffian, base Adair.
                           With heart of mingled hate and fear, brought armed hundreds there:
                           Their bayonets drawn, as on they marched, the Sheriff moved
                              before,
                           While crowbar men like hell-bounds yell, around the widow's door.
                        
                        
                           VI.
                           "Before they tore her roof-tree down, and struck her heart with
                              gloom.
                           Three men of God implored Adair to save her from the doom;
                           He spurned them like an adder, and they turned aside to pray.
                           While Christ, from His bright throne of grace, looked down upon
                              Glenveigh.
                        
                        
                           VII.
                           "HE saw the aged widow and her seven maidens pure—
                           The grandsire on his sick-bed stretched, the crippled, blind, and
                              poor;
                           That here to happy, harmless race, the people of the glen.
                           Flung from their homes upon the moor by rude and reckless men!
                        
                        
                           VIII.
                           "The wrecker and the sheriff, and the throng of armed slaves,
                           Moved on in desolation, like wreck-divided waves;
                           From house to house they passed along and rased them to the
                              ground.
                           Till all along the mountains' sides no standing cot was found.
                        
                        
                           IX.
                           "And now the day was ended—a day made dark by hate—
                           Upon the moor beneath the night lie hundreds desolate;
                           Houseless, homeless, comfortless—banned, broken-hearted men.
                           And friends are there who'll never meet upon this earth again!
                        
                        
                           X.
                           "The moon, pale, struggling through the mists, looked sadly from the
                              skies:
                           The homeward falcon swept along—the rocks gate back his cries;
                           But, like the Saviour when on earth, no shelter, home had they—
                           The vanished, broken-hearted serfs—the outcasts of Glenveigh!
                        
                        
                           XI.
                           "Let pen and voice proclaim their wrongs throughout the land,
                              until
                           A sword is seen in every hand, a signal on each hill:
                           And rained the standard of revolt, wet with our blood and tears,
                           And Erin roused up with the wrath of Brian's clans and peers!
                        
                        
                           XII.
                           "'T were nobler far for men to die in freedom's glorious fray.
                           Than crouch in fear and wait the fate that wildernessed Glenveigh!
                           And shall such rate continue, men?—shall things
                              fore'er be so,
                           When you yourselves could end all wrong, by union and a
                                 blow?
                           
                        
                        
                           XIII.
                           "When circled round the hearths at night, and mirth does most
                              abound.
                           When sitting by the table and the cares of life are drown'd.
                           Think, think, the Desolator has his eyes upon your home,—
                           Fix the day for your redemption, or his force and greed will
                                 come!"
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            With the advice of the last stanza, I, for one, fully, agree. Let Irishmen beg no act
               of grace from an alien Senate,—no miserable
               mouthful of liberty flung at them with all the contemptuous indifference with which a
               bone is thrown to a hungry dog. Cultivate self-confidence, my countrymen, which you
               sadly need; blow the brains out of every whining knave who presents himself as a fit
               and proper person to be your representative beggar at the gates of the brutal British
               Parliament; name the day for your redemption, and, with brave hearts, armed hands,
               and fearless souls, leave the rest to the God of Battles.
            On the self-same principle that every man should rule his own family, so every
               nation, which is but a congregation of individuals, bound together for their mutual
               benefit, should govern itself. There are honest idiots, I know, who believe that the
               continuance of the connection with England would not only be better for Ireland, but
               the only salvation of that unfortunate Island. But, such a thought, even, is contrary
               to reason, repugnant to intelligence, and revolting to every instinct of manhood. Let
               me ask, with Ireland completely free and enjoying the blessings of self-government,
               could such a monstrous deed as the Glenveigh evictions occur? Not likely. But then
               Ireland may have a native legislature, and still retain the connection? Permanently,
               the thing is simply impossible. Experience has proved it so.
            What I have written is, certainly, a curious introduction to a story; but mine is as
               much a history as a story, and its nature called for observations of the kind, when
               any at all were made.
            I may remark, in conclusion, that the principal incidents are, to a degree, in
               accordance with truth. I earnestly hope none of my peasant countrymen shall evermore
               suffer the tyranny, or experience the misery of the VICTIMS OF GLENVEIGH.
            
               P. S. CASSIDY.
               Brooklyn, N. Y., Feb., 1870.
            
         
      
      
         
            Glenveigh, or, The victim of vengeance
            GLENVEIGH;
            OR THE VICTIMS OF VENGEANCE.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               THE STATION.
               
                  
                     
                        There stands the cottage by the lake,
                        The dark-browed mountains frowning o'er,—
                        And see, the trodden pathways break
                        A way on all sides from the door;
                        Bright blaze the turf upon the hearth,—
                        And hark! you hear the mellow din
                        Of laughing talk and quiet mirth—
                        They must be happy all within!
                     
                  
               
               THE sharp, piercing blasts of November swept over the drear and desolate-looking
                  tract of mountainous district known as Glenveigh and Derryveigh, in the County
                  Donegal, some ten miles west of the town of Letterkenny. The sky, of a pale watery
                  hue, with immense black masses of broken clouds rolling over it in wild disorder,
                  bore a stormy and threatening aspect, and large drops of rain, betokening an
                  approaching squall, were borne down on the blast with pitiless force and fury. So
                  dismal was the moan of the gale, and so large and comparatively far between were
                  the drops of rain, that one might fancy the spirits of air were crooning a dirge,
                  and weeping for the death or departure of all living things from that lonely-looking region. But no; the
                  genius of desolation does not reign supreme there yet, and so the shadowy beings
                  of the air may restrain their grief for a little while longer, when there will be
                  occasion for its expression—bitter, bitter occasion, indeed! There for centuries
                  lived, loved, married, gave in marriage, died and went to heaven, a race of
                  peasants, affectionately clinging to the old faith amid all the privations of life
                  and temptations of "evangelizers," and wailing their woes, or warbling their joys
                  in the sweet old tongue, as pure of morals and peaceful of life as any on the face
                  of God's great earth. Alas! they live there no longer. A heartless, inhuman
                  Scotchman, who claimed to be the lord and master of those unprotected
                  peasant-serfs, with that rapacity for which his countrymen are proverbial, swept
                  them from the lands of their fathers, to make way for horned sheep and black
                  cattle, which he thought would be more profitable to him than the human animals
                  who encumbered the property; drove them forth, though they had committed no crime,
                  and had their rents paid up to the day—some to gnaw away their hearts in the
                  degradation of the workhouse; some to find relief from their despairing and
                  distracting thoughts in insanity, and its natural consequence, self-destruction:
                  and a few to cultivate and till the virgin soil of great and glorious America
                  whose friendly and protecting arms are ever open to receive and succor the outcast
                  from his native land, the refugee from intolerance or tyranny, no matter under
                  what sun he first saw the light of life, or in what language his doom was
                  spoken.
               But we must not anticipate. And as to be lighthearted and happy when we can, and
                  serious and sorrowful when we must, is our philosophy of life, we will just step
                  over to Peter Bradley's, which you see yonder, with the light streaming from the
                  door and both windows, and the mighty mass of mountain frowning down upon it, and
                  looking as if it were going to life its foot, on which Peter's cottage cosily
                  sits, and kick it into the Gartan Lough, which frets to-night in mimic fury
                  immediately below. There we will throw off the mantle of sad reflection with our
                  overcoats, and, sitting close by Peter's hospitable hearth, we will enjoy a sweet
                  smoke from a fresh clay pipe, and a steaming glass of poteen punch, and join in
                  the general glee and happiness which there abounds, having the most sublime scorn
                  for the spiteful elements outside. You need not dread a rude or cold reception.
                  Hospitality is the great characteristic of the Irish race, and Mrs. Bradley is
                  characteristically hospitable. And, too, if there is one time at which the Irish
                  peasantry feel more inclined to exercise that great virtue than at another, it is
                  when they have the priest on his rounds of Christmas or Easter Stations. Then all
                  the ennobling feelings of their essentially generous and open natures expand
                  beyond their usual bounds, under the genial influence of soul-felt religion. If
                  the beggar-man, that daily and ever kindly received visitor, comes on that day, he
                  is not dismissed with a handful of meal, or dishful of potatoes: he is set down at
                  the kitchen table, and has placed before him a couple of good hearty cuts of sweet
                  mountain mutton, a slice or two off the large roast of beef, the remains of a
                  goose, turkey, or chicken, a plate of cabbage, another of potatoes, with a glass
                  of mountain dew afterwards to assist digestion—though heaven knows we
                  never knew or heard tell of an Irish beggar-man who had not the digestion of an
                  ostrich. They are one class of men who need no Holloway's pills, or
                  stomach-bitters.
               Let us sketch a few members of the little social gathering—as they are destined to
                  perform a part, conspicuous or otherwise, during the varied progress of our
                  checkered tale. There sits at the head of the table the honored guest of the
                  evening—the venerated umpire of the
                  various debates on markets, rural politics, horses, dogs, cocks, poteen-making,
                  and "ould" history: whose decision on all subjects is as immutable as the fixed
                  stars, as final and binding as the laws of the Medes and Persians. Short of
                  stature but well built is he, and dressed in the plain but respectable garb of an
                  Irish priest of the old school: a long, loose black coat, a black silk stock, over
                  which is doubled down around the neck a linen raba of stainless
                  purity, a pair of tight-fitting black cloth breeches, and silk stockings of the
                  same color, with his small, well-shaped feet encased in a pair of light, low
                  shoes. Erect he stood under the weight of four score years; and his face, well
                  calculated to inspire love and confidence, still retained the fair, soft freshness
                  of youth. No wrinkles gathered on or contracted his large, full forehead and brow,
                  though shaded by the venerable white curls of age. See how calmly and contentedly
                  he smokes his cigar, which Peter forgot not to bring from Letterkenny expressly
                  for him: and notice the twinkle of quiet humor that lurks in the corners of his
                  clear, expressive hazel-brown eyes. When occasion called on him to decide some
                  weighty and important point in dispute among the rustic debaters, he delivered his
                  opinion with such an air of mock gravity, mingled with bantering humor and pointed
                  wit, that never failed to create a general burst of merriment among the
                  good-natured and agreeable people, who, indeed, were always predisposed to laugh
                  and be pleased with whatever "his riverence" said on such occasions.
               At the opposite end of the table—in the vice-chair—sat Jamey MacDaid, the
                  schoolmaster, wrapped up in the mantle of his dignity like an oyster in its shell.
                  In ordinary life, Jamey was reticent; and when spoken to on say subject which at
                  the time he did not feel disposed to discuss, he would reply with a tartness
                  natural to a broken temper, which all trainers of the perverse intellect lect of
                  youth have abundant reason to possess; but when under the mellowing influence of a
                  genuine drop of the native, Jamey was as jolly as a god—all
                  openness, good-nature, and conviviality. Condescending and communicative he would
                  be, but ever and always watchful of his dignity, and careful that the barriers of
                  his recognized superiority over the illiterate should not be swept away by the
                  social glass. Jamey was a living representative—a second edition—of the hedge
                  schoolmaster of times now gone. "He was," as he said himself, "an anachronism on
                  the age. From causes which it was unnecessary to mention, and over which he had no
                  control, he crossed the rubicon of nothingness, entered the land of entity, and
                  became a candidate for fame and fortune on an evil time. Disastrous to his present
                  fortune and future fame, he was before and after his time. Now the
                  pseudo-instructors of the plastic intellect of mercurial youth discarded
                  mathematical knowledge, and scoffed at classic lore, while they literally stuffed
                  the mind of the pupil—the puer—with fantastic
                  theories, shallow sophistry, vague impossibilities, and shadowy speculation about
                  geography, globes and grammar, to the utter exclusion of everything useful,
                  accomplishing, substantial, ideal and beautiful. He ardently hoped, he fervently
                  prayed, that the good old time when learning triumphed under the guardianship of
                  that much maligned class of literate gentlemen, vulgarly denominated
                  hedge-schoolmasters, would soon return, and the somnolent dotards, the insane
                  dreamers after the fantastical and visionary, would have to slink away like gnomes
                  or troglodytes to their obfuscated caves before the meridian sun of revived
                  learning. But he feared the happy consummation of his dearest, highest and most
                  cherished hopes would not be while he, Master James MacDaid, Philomath and Classic
                  Conqueror, trod, in shadow and in sorrow, the overcast pathway of this terrestrial
                  life. However, the old times for which he
                  sighed would and must return. The history of humanity from the days of our common
                  mother, Eve—the most beautiful and accomplished lady of her day—down
                  to the present hour, teaches that the human race, like Time. possesses two great
                  attributes or characteristics—variety and eternity. (I use eternity
                  in a metaphorical sense.) Thus, occasionally, in the history of our species, we
                  find the human mind wandering away from the regions of reason, and becoming
                  maniacal over some illusion which they call discovery: and the generality of
                  mankind, as if in sympathetic consort with rampant insanity, act like the most
                  outrageous lunatics. After a time sense returns, and they settle down to tread
                  again the paths pointed out by reason and illuminated by noble and real learning.
                  In one of these periodical fits of lunacy the world is now; but the dark cloud
                  that warps and blinds the reason, and damps and destroys the brain of man, shall
                  soon pass away like morning mist from the valley, and the illuminations of
                  heavenly knowledge shall again radiate the obfuscated regions of the obtuse-angled
                  intellects of the age."
               Such was Jamey, and so would he deliver his opinions and ideas when a cup or two
                  of poteen punch had given balm to his broken temper, openness to his secretive
                  nature, and eloquence, as he considered it, to his tongue. If he was pompous in
                  his language, proud of his little learning, impracticable of conception, and
                  antiquated of idea, there were extenuating circumstances which made all those
                  faults pardonable in poor Jamey, who was, withal, as good of heart and harmless of
                  disposition as ever breathed the breath of life. He lived in a backward, secluded
                  glen, where progress and improvement of every kind were long and late in finding
                  an entrance, and around which the shadowy phantoms of the manners customs modes of
                  thought and expression of life a hundred years ago still clung, like the mists
                  around the sublime summits of the mountains which encircled and sheltered the
                  glen. Ah! little he thought, as he talked of what he called the rampant insanity
                  of the age, of the dismal future that lay so close before him, of the insanity and
                  self-destruction to which he was destined to be driven by the evil machinations of
                  villains, and the most monstrous of despotisms.
               The other members of the group are of minor importance in a social point of view,
                  and equal to those to be found on such occasions in the rural districts of
                  Ireland.—but some of whom are fated to perform a prominent part in the varied
                  history of Glenveigh for one half year. For the present, we will merely point them
                  out and allow the reader to become better acquainted with them as we go along.
               There is Peter Bradley himself, in his new corduroys and blue frieze body-coat,
                  talking so friendly and affectionately to all around him, that you might fancy he
                  was only just after returning to the bosom of his family and friends, after twenty
                  long years of lonely exile in some "furrin' land:" whereas. Peter never slept one
                  night out of the glen during his life. And yonder is Mrs. Bradley, a kind and
                  matronly-looking woman, and cleanly and tidily dressed, busily engaged in seeing
                  that every one is happy and enjoying themselves "to their heart's content," as she
                  would say. There is Billy Curran, a neighbor of Peter's and crony (who is just
                  after coming over on invitation to spend the evening), with a spoon between his
                  finger and thumb, with which he is vigorously stirring his tumbler of toddy, which
                  Peter insists he will "Dhrink off at once, man, to warm ye after comin' in from
                  the cowld and wet." A little in the shade sit Mary Curran and young Frank Bradley,
                  behaving in a most extraordinary manner for sensible young people to do. But who
                  ever saw young lovers acting in any way but the most foolish, or talking anything
                  but the rankest nonsense? And Mary and Frank are lovers! Could you doubt it? See how lovingly
                  she leans her fair, delicately-shaped head on his broad, square shoulder, and see
                  how he, happy mortal! holds her little hand in his big brawny one, and whispers
                  something in her ear that makes her smile sweetly, fondly, and affectionately on
                  him. And see, too, how Mrs. Bradley steals a glance at them occasionally with the
                  corner of her eye, and smiles approvingly. And, ah! ye graces and nymphs of bygone
                  days! see Frank's little sister, pretty, petite Nellie Bradley, the Ægle of the
                  Glen, watching them with a mischievous meaning, tempered with wild delight, in her
                  large gazelle-like eyes. Truly a mischievous little minx is she, and as careless
                  in the matters of the world, buoyant of spirit and swift of foot as her great
                  friend and constant companion, the young doe which she had reared and tamed to a
                  degree, and which, at the sound of her voice, would come bounding towards her with
                  manifest delight.
               By filling in the picture which we have sketched, with the forms of some dozen or
                  so more of both sexes, and of the ages between twenty and fifty, the reader, in
                  his mind's eye, can see the pleasant party who filled Peter Bradley's large and
                  comfortable room (you may call it his parlor, if you choose) on that wild wintry
                  night in November.
               "Charley," said the Priest to a venerable-looking old man, whom Mrs. Bradley was
                  wont to call her father, and who was indulging in a quiet, contemplative smoke
                  beside the fire, "you feel lonely, I suppose, since old Ned Conaghan died?"
               "Ay, Father Denis," said the old man, "I do feel very lonely. Ned and I were
                  comrades, always together, from we were childer. One never went to a fair or
                  market, dance or factory, * unless the other went. We were born on the same
                  day, and were married on the same day, and it's only sorry I am that we did not
                  die on the same day, too. Och, wirra-stru! poor Ned, I never thought I'd be livin'
                  after you,"—and the old man wiped his eyes with the sleeve of his coat, after this
                  burst of deep and genuine feeling.
               
                  *A "factory" is a gathering of
                     the youngsters to assist a neighbor in doing some work,—such as pulling,
                     spreading and steeping flax, which must be done "right away." This is a common
                     and kindly practice among the peasant population of Donegal. The services of
                     some itinerant musician are engaged for the evening, which is pleasantly passed
                     with dance, and song, and melting music.
               
               "However," said Father Denis, in a soothing tone, "'tis a pleasant reflection and
                  a great relief to your sorrow now, to know that there was never any angry
                  difference or misunderstanding between you while he lived. Now that he is gone to
                  where you and I must follow soon, looking back through the long and happy life
                  with which God blessed you and him, and thinking over the various little incidents
                  of younger days, which are as landmarks to the memory of an old man—I am old
                  myself, Charley, and know it—this should be a great source of pleasure to
                  you."
               "So it should. Father Denis, and it is, too. When I am praying for him every night
                  and mornin' I think of that, and I say as if I was talkin to him: 'Ned, you and me
                  were always good neighbors. When we were childer, and had little wit, we sailed
                  boats together in the burn; when we were boys we watched the sheep and heifers
                  together, climbed the crags of Glenveigh for hawks and eaglets, or killed the fine
                  yellow trout and speckled salmon in the lough. We were confirmed the same day, and
                  we always went to Mass and confession together. Ned. When we grew to be men we
                  went to fair and market together; and when I told you I loved Sally MacSwyne—God
                  rest your soul, my poor wife!'" and the old man made the sign of the cross on his
                     breast—"'and intended to make her my
                  wife, when I had a home prepared to bring her to, you said you would love and
                  marry her younger sister, and you did it. Ned, and she made you a good wife.' And
                  after we were married, no Sunday or holiday ever passed that we did not spend the
                  evening together. When we began to get ould and feeble, and wondered which of us
                  was failin' fastest, sure we used to go to the level green beside the lough every
                  Christmas mornin', and wrestle, to see which of us was strongest, and standin' the
                  age the best. And last blessed Christmas mornin' we had to be armed down to the
                  green. Ah, Ned, a wohil! six weeks after that I
                  followed your cowld corpse to the grave; and now when Christmas comes again you
                  won't be here; and I pray to the blessed Maker that I may be dead, and with you on
                  that holy mornin', if it don't be a sin:" and again the sorrowful old man wiped
                  the tears from his eyes.
               "Father Denis," shouted Peter—who was all this time in close consultation with
                  Billy Curran, about the tender relations which existed between the "young people."
                  Mary and Frank, and the advisability of having them married and established for
                  life, before Lent. "as there was nothin' else could be done with the foolish
                  youngsters"—so Peter thought and Billy concurred with him—while Jamey MacDaid, the
                  schoolmaster, who was an old bachelor of forty-five, was paying extravagant
                  ("classic," he would call it) compliments to the pretty and provoking Nellie'
                  Bradley, in his usual pompous style, and the other members of the festive
                  gathering, to their perfect satisfaction, were enjoying themselves under the
                  surveillance of the ubiquitous Mrs. Bradley—"Father Denis!" he shouted, as if
                  angry at the neglect which his poteen, made by himself specially for the occasion,
                  received at the hands of the temperate old priest: "are ye not goin' to taste it
                  at all, after me reeking (rectifying) it for you, and buryin' it in the bog to
                  take the taste of the fire off it for the last two months? By gorra! I'm not
                  plased at all wid you for tratin' my whiskey—the crathur!—that there isn't the
                  bate av in the four baronies av Ireland, that way," said Peter, with an air of
                  offended pride.
               "No, Peter," replied the priest, who was thus rudely wakened from his pleasant
                  reverie over the affecting recital of the unbroken brotherly affection, so strange
                  and so very seldom existing in real life, on account we suppose of the
                  imperfectness of our nature, which those two singular beings cherished during a
                  long lifetime—"No, Peter. I never take more than one glass, and I had that one
                  after dinner."
               "By gonnies! you must have another one," insisted Peter, "seein' the sort av a
                  bastely night it is, an' you havin' so far to ride on the cowld bare road from
                  this to Tarmon. You must, now, yer riverence!" and he pushed the large glass
                  bottle towards the priest.
               "Peter," said Father Denis, with a twinkle of humor in his eye." you are a most
                  unchristian heathen!"
               Peter literally staggered under this grave charge, and, with a shade of anxious
                  inquiry passing over his pleasant face, he asked in a subdued tone: "How is that,
                  yer riverence?"
               "Why," answered the priest, "don't you know that I have to pass Losset, where you
                  saw the ghost the last market night you were returning from Letterkenny, and stood
                  talking to it. I believe, till morning, asking it what troubles prevented it from
                  resting in peace, and protesting your willingness and ability to assist it, if
                  money and means could do it."
               This shot created a wild burst of laughter at poor, shame-faced Peter's expense;
                  for, be it known, that when returning from market the Friday night previous, being
                  somewhat under the influence of whiskey, and in that happy state of existence when
                  men are most inclined clined to let the
                  imagination mislead them, he saw an old oak block standing erect in a ditch side
                  by the way at the place indicated, and immediately metamorphosed it into some
                  troubled spirit of the other world, and remained in friendly converse with it till
                  morning.
               When the laughter had somewhat subsided. Peter, with an effort to retrieve his
                  lost ground by not seeming to feel the ridicule which the priest's charge had
                  excited, persisted: "Well, now, yer riverence, you might take a coadguthur. You
                  know there should always be a bishop and a coadguthur."
               "But not in drinking, Peter. By-the-by, your mention of a bishop, reminds me of a
                  humorous incident which happened our own beloved bishop, the last time he was up
                  in Dublin. He was stopping at a hotel there, and, anxious to be in Letterkenny
                  next evening, at the reception of a nun at the Convent, he told the proprietor to
                  have him up in good time for the five o'clock train in the morning, starting for
                  the North. He went to bed early, and whether from the anxiety lest he should
                  oversleep his time, and not be wakened, or that he had slept enough, it does not
                  matter, but he was lying awake at four o'clock. Just then he heard a voice outside
                  his bedroom door calling: 'Get up. old cock.' get up, old cock!' Annoyed at this
                  rude and disrespectful language, he shouted tartly: 'I am getting up.' A few
                  minutes after he heard the same voice calling: 'Get up. old cock! Are you getting
                  up, old boy?' Highly incensed, he leaped out of bed, and drawing on his trowsers,
                  shouted: 'Didn't I tell you I am getting up?' Again, a few minutes after, the same
                  voice called in a taunting tone: 'Are you getting up, old boy? Up! up. old horse!'
                  Enraged at the reiterated insult, he violently rang the bell, and on half-a-dozen
                  servants making their appearance hurriedly, thinking the house was on fire, or
                  that something dreadful had happened, he demanded the presence of the proprietor
                  immediately. That gentleman hurried out of bed, and hastened up to his lordship's
                  room. When he reached the door, the bishop met him, and in an angry tone demanded:
                  'What sort of rascally servants do you keep in this house? I shall never sleep in
                  this ruffianly den again, and I'll prevent every gentleman I can from stopping
                  with you! I never received such scoundrelly treatment in my life. I have
                  heretofore found this a respectable house: but new I find it turned into a
                  menagerie of chattering gorillas by your ruffianly servants, and totally unfit for
                  a respectable man to stop in!' Stupefied by the angry demeanor of the bishop and
                  the force of his language, the proprietor was unable to speak for a time. When at
                  length he recovered his powers of speech, he humbly replied. 'That he did not
                  think it possible that any of his servants would treat his lordship with the least
                  disrespect: but he would make every inquiry, and if he found any of them had done
                  so, the scoundrel would be instantly and ignominiously dismissed.' Just then the
                  same voice called out, with provokingly distinct utterance, 'Are you up, old cock?
                  Up! up! up! up!!' The proprietor leant back against the door, and burst into an
                  uncontrollable fit of laughter. His lordship stood amazed with indignation. When
                  at length the proprietor of the hotel succeeded in conquering the spasmodic
                  convulsions of his risible faculties, he pointed his finger, in explanation, to a
                  large cage hanging above the door, in which a parrot was proudly stepping from
                  perch to perch. His lordship laughed now, at what he called one of the adventures
                  of his life; but requested that when he should be stopping there in future, the
                  parrot should be put out of earshot of his room."
               "By the power av poteen!" swore Peter, "but his lordship was nicely done! He was
                  as much mistaken as the Yankee who came to Ireland, and seeing a donkey roarin' in
                  a field, remarked that the bird had a fine large ear for music, but his voice
                  wasn't very sweet."
               
               "With all due deference I would beg to remark, Peter," broke in Master MacDaid,
                  "that the intelligent, and, no doubt, learned American had but vague ideas of the
                  divisions, subdivisions, species and families which constitute the animal kingdom,
                  else he would not have denominated that pachydermatus quadruped, donkey, by the
                  name, or, in classic phrase, nomen, bird.
                  However, even some of our great classic naturalists have failed in giving
                  definitions exact and circumscribed enough to admit of and apply to the things
                  intended to be defined, solely. Thus, Plato defines man as a biped without
                  feathers, and to show the vagueness of the definition, I may inform you, my
                  friend, that Diogenes, a cynic and sarcastic mortal, plucked the feathers off a
                  living cock and called the bird 'Plato's Man.' And Pliny calls man the weeping
                  animal.—whereas. I frequently observed a pig which I once had, and on which I used
                  to perform different experiments often weeping most intelligently when under the
                  penance of a protracted fast. Those little anecdotes gentlemen, point out the
                  beauty and necessity of strictly correct language being used among the learned,
                  and the difference there is between words which seemingly mean the same thing to
                  the illiterate. Pardon my remarks. Father MacGee, but I always wish to combine
                  information with pleasure," concluded Jamey.
               "No need for pardon, Jamey," replied the priest. "You are quite right—that is your
                  mission, as you say; and I hope you will find attentive and appreciating pupils
                  for another hour or two. At present, I must go; but do not let my leaving scatter
                  you," he continued, rising and looking affectionately round on the few members of
                  his flock who were gathered there. "You know I always give legitimate license to
                  all to enjoy themselves within the bounds of prudence and reason; but, if they
                  overstep that, I make them feel for their folly."
               The good old clergyman knew there was little, if any, need for his last remark;
                  but, fully understanding the mercurial nature of his purely Celtic parishioners,
                  and the extent to which they might be carried by their convivial inclinations, he
                  never lost an opportunity of impressing them with a salutary fear of his
                  displeasure, believing that to prevent a fault from being done, was infinitely
                  better than to reprove it when done. Prevention saved the person from the sin of
                  the fault, and those who were aware of it, from scandal; while reproof, at the
                  most, only excited remorseful contrition and atonement.
               On Father MacGee expressing his intention of leaving. Peter got to his feet, and
                  vehemently protested that "his riverence couldn't face out such a night as that,
                  if he were a-puttin' out; and, glory be to God! no Christian man could have the
                  heart to put a dog out, if he niver saw the brute's face afore. Anyhow, if he
                  didn't stay all night, he would wait till the moon rose, about twelve."
               But the priest was inexorable, although Peter really "thought and believed he
                  might wait for an hour or so to see if it would get fair at all, at all," and felt
                  sorely disappointed when "his riverence wouldn't take his advice." Mrs. Bradley
                  and the others all joined in the prayer of Peter's petition, but in vain. He had
                  part of his office (vespers) to read after he got home, and had to be up very
                  early the next morning, and ride five or six miles of wild mountain road,
                  regardless of the wind and weather, to a station in another part of his large and
                  scattered parish.
               As Father Denis was engaged buttoning on the large frieze overcoat which he wore
                  in stormy weather, and Mrs. Bradley was rolling an immense comforter, which she
                  had knit to offer him as a present on this occasion, around his neck, till it had
                  covered his cars, mouth, and chin, and Nellie was busily at work buckling on
                     his leggings, Peter, who had gone out
                  to see the servant-boy getting the priest's horse ready, rushed into the room with
                  horror on his face, and astonishment expressed by his uplifted hands. He stood
                  motionless in the middle of the party, who were all standing now out of respect
                  for their beloved pastor and true and only friend. Making a number of vigorous
                  efforts to get a hole for his voice to escape from among the folds of Mrs.
                  Bradley's comforter, the light-hearted old clergyman humorously inquired if the
                  ghost had appeared to him to tell its troubles; whereupon Peter found his voice,
                  and pronounced, with slow deliberation, a short sentence, that fell like a
                  thunderclap on the silent and expectant group—
               "Murray was got murdered on the mountain this evenin'."
               Every one present was paralyzed with astonishment. The old priest looked grave,
                  shook his head, and inwardly prayed that no evil would come by it to his poor
                  people. Amid a silence deep as sudden, he moved to the door, and they all
                  mechanically followed. The first thing that lifted their minds from the astounding
                  news of Murray's murder was the sight of three horses instead of one, standing
                  saddled and bridled on the street. The priest asked Peter for an explanation.
               "Why, yer riverence." began he, still pale with terror, "seein' that you
                     would go. I tould Paddy Callaghan, the boy—'Paddy,' says I. 'run
                  over to Billy Curran's, and take the saddle and bridle you'll get hangin' on a pin
                  in the bern, and put them on Billy's mare, and bring her over. I'll put the saddle
                  on our own horse, and lave him ready along with his riverence's: so whin you come
                  back take the three to the doore and hould them there till we come out.' An'
                  seein' the night was so bastely dark I tould Biddy Doherty, the girl, to put the
                  ends of two long spales of fir in the fire? Are they blazin', Biddy?" he shouted
                  in, and on receiving the reply that they "wur blazin' like Muckish * afire," again cried
                  "that's right, Biddy. An' that's the way of it, yer riverence."
               
                  *A large mountain in the neighborhood.
               
               There was not much of explanation in all this; but the priest saw plainly what
                  Peter was up to. He and the servant boy were going to accompany him home, and the
                  spales of fir were intended as substitutes for "the moon's pale light," thus
                  showing that capricious planet, the beloved of dreamy poets and love-sick swains,
                  that the earth could do wonderfully well without her altogether, as it manages to
                  do when she is laboring under, and lying in bed during, her periodical fits of
                  laziness.
               Soon the three were mounted and rode away, Father Denis in the middle, and Peter
                  and Paddy Callaghan on both sides, each with the blazing faggot in his hand.
               The remainder of the little social gathering returned to the cheerful room, where
                  we will return, too, and learn who this Murray was, and what was thought of him by
                  the inhabitants of the glens.
               But as we need a new pen to begin our new paragraph, it might be as good to begin
                  a fresh chapter; this one is too long already.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               BEING THE "STATION" CONTINUED.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Nor yet the social joys abate,
                           Though featly flies the fleeting hours;
                           Around the board till ten they sate,
                           Then issued out 'mid wind and showers.
                           Their hearts with happiness elate,
                           Towards their homes they wend their way;
                           Nor dream they of the darksome fate
                           That for them in the future lay.
                        
                     
                     OLD SONG.
                  
               
               THE lands of Glenveigh and Derryveigh, the scene of the wholesale evictions of
                  world-wide notoriety, were the property, through long ages, of a race of landlords
                  of the old class, now so few in Ireland. The property descended in undisturbed
                  succession from father to son, from time immemorial. When the young heir became
                  possessor, his feelings towards his tenantry were akin to those with which he
                  regarded the old domestics who had grown grey in the service of the family. There
                  was not only a bond of common interest between them, but a chain of old memories
                  and associations existed, attaching the family to the honest-hearted, peaceable
                  and primitive people of the glens, and vice
                     versa, which each successive heir felt it would be sacrilege to snap
                  asunder. When the landlord or heir came to the glen for a week's grouse shooting
                  in August, or, woodcock in November, he met a genuine cordial Irish welcome from
                  his tenants, who were, every man of them, at his service to carry the guns, grouse
                  bags, lunch baskets, and all the other paraphernalia of the sportsman, while he
                  remained. And when the tenants went to Stranorlar to pay the rent, they were sure
                  of a good dinner and lodgings for the night, at "the big house."
               The Johnsons, the former landlords, were a family of sportsmen, inherently so, as
                  well as by education, better acquainted with the use of the gun, pistol and sword
                  than that of the pen; hence, a cunning, dishonest attorney, who was law-agent of
                  the property, by dexterous manipulation of figures, loans, and calculations of
                  compound interest, accumulated such a heavy mortgage on the property that it had
                  to be put into the Courts, and was sold about twelve years ago. It was purchased
                  by a grasping, grinding Scotchman, and a nocus
                     homo at that. John George Adams, the new landlord, was a man who had
                  got a little education in a charity school in one of the highland shires of
                  Scotland, and left his father's cabin at fourteen years of age with the handsome
                  fortune of thirteen shillings. British money, in his "breeks'" pockets. He made
                  his way to Belfast in a coal sloop, and from there he travelled towards the South,
                  looking for employment. He soon got the important and respectable position of
                  cow-boy in the household of a nobleman and extensive land proprietor in a southern
                  county. After a few years he became one of the bailiffs, and in that position of
                  trust exerted himself so well, and displayed such able talents for grinding,
                  driving, impounding, and tumbling the homes of the unprotected tenants over their
                  heads, that he was advanced to the grade of an under-agent.
               While in this position his creative genius, begot pregnant by idea, conceived and
                  brought forth a plan, combining great cheapness with marvellous expedition, for
                  sweeping the vermin tenantry from the face of the soil, which should have been, if
                  it was not, patented for the exclusive use of Irish landlords. He would not
                  condescend to order the wretched creatures to arise and walk from their homes, to
                  wander on the bare, bleak earth with
                  nowhere to lay their head; or go to the unnecessary expense of paying men for
                  carrying out the goods and chattels of the noxious serfs and levelling their
                  cabins. Not he! A double team of oxen was yoked to each of the four corners of the
                  house, which was thus pulled asunder. allowing the inmates to leave if they
                  wished, or remain to be buried alive in the ruins! He was often heard to say,
                  while the muscles of his face wrought under the influence of the demon cruelty of
                  his heart, that he would rather go to evict and raze the homesteads of a townland
                  of tenants than to a feast or ball. And when famine and its attendant destroyer
                  pestilence, were desolating the land, he was heard to exultantly cry: "This is
                  glorious if it lasts but long enough! We'll soon not have much trouble with the
                  vermin!"
               Great God! such language to come from the mouth of a human being, at a time when
                  strong men were dying in hundreds by the wayside from sheer starvation, and lying
                  there unburied till dogs, wolves and vultures tore them limb from limb, and fought
                  over them like the ghouls of an Eastern graveyard! When the infant, mad with the
                  pangs of hunger, gnawed the suckless breast of the dying, or, perhaps, dead
                  mother; when young fathers and mothers built up the doors and windows of their
                  cabins, and, gathering their little ones about them, lay down on the cold hearth
                  to die!
               Dark and disastrous to the happy and contented, though struggling peasants of
                  these quiet secluded glens, was the day on which the property exchanged hands.
                  They held in common some thousands of acres of mountain, on which they grazed
                  sheep and young cattle in great abundance. The benefits of this commonage was
                  almost 
                     incalulable
                     incalculable
                   to them. John George Adams, the new and benevolent
                  landlord, saw the value it was to them, and for that very reason, if there were no
                  other, would he deprive them of it. His very nature was so infernally constituted
                  stituted, that he could not bear to see any person in his power in any sort of
                  comfortable circumstances. Indeed it is popularly supposed in Donegal that he was
                  begot between the Devil and one of the old Highland witches.
               But there was another object in view besides the gratification of his evil and
                  envious disposition. The mountains would be readily rented by some Scotch
                  shepherd, at a round sum, annually. Thus, the first pledge of his intentions
                  towards them which the tenants—ever liable to be passed from the possession of one
                  lord of the soil to that of another, like the veriest gang of slaves that ever
                  were put up at auction—received, was the loss of the common pasturage on which
                  they so much depended. But his kindness did not end here, unfortunately. He
                  doubled their old rents for the few acres of arable land which he left them, and,
                  in some cases, trebled them. Of course, he could do whatever he liked; he was
                  answerable to no earthly power; there were no laws to restrain him and protect the
                  people, and he was bad enough to do anything.
               But Gladstone and Bright are at last going to do justice to Ireland, we are told.
                     They acknowledge that Ireland has been grievously misgoverned, but
                     they will do it justice, and govern it in a spirit of
                  enlightenment and liberty. They, mighty and God-like men, will
                  staunch the wounds that have bled for ages, and drained away the heart's blood of
                  the country. They will infuse new life and energy into the lifeless
                  corpse, and send it careering along on the up-hill path of prosperity. And, as an
                  instalment of that justice, they keep the Habeas
                     Corpus Act. the foundation of all liberty, suspended over the heads
                  of the people, thus placing their personal freedom at the mercy of the meanest
                  policeman, or the most infamous informer. True, they have "disendowed" the
                  Garrison Church, but how have they disendowed it? By making it richer
                  than it was, by long odds! Out, on such
                  bare-faced hypocrisy! such dishonest jugglery! Gladstone and Bright are as much
                  English at heart as Cromwell and Camden were, and possess fully as much of the
                  Englishman's inherent cruelty and hatred towards our race and country as they did. 
                     "I fear me more their courtly arts than England's hireling swords."
                   To be sure, they have gained the favor and support of a few milk-and-water
                  patriots, who would petition in the outraged and insulted name of Ireland till the
                  trumpet of eternity would sound, and feed their silly souls on promises false as
                  fair? But, taken in general, the Irishman of to-day is quite different from that
                  of even twenty years ago. Like Valentine Vousden, he sees that "the Irish have
                  been living on promises for the last century." and are likely to have to live on
                  them till the end of time, if they continue to flatter their souls with the hope
                  of amelioration from an English parliament; and, with the gentle "Mary" he
                  believes that 
                     
                        "The very subtlest eloquence an injured man can show
                        Is the pathos of a pikehead, and the logic of a blow."
                     
                  
               
               This is gratifying and encouraging.
               We have made this digression purposely to beg those few misguided men to cease
                  their praying and petitioning. Let them drag no more our country as a beggar,
                  covered with ulcers and rags, before the gates of an alien legislature. Let them
                  not make it the Lazarus of nations. Though Ireland has trodden, with bleeding
                  feet, the dreary desert of misery from Dan to Bersheba; though she has sailed,
                  amid the tempests of adversity, between the Scylla and Charybdis of existence and
                  extinction, yet still 
                     
                        "Enough of old glory remains on each sword
                        To light us to victory yet!"
                     
                   None but the most arrant idiots would put faith in the faithless promises of
                  England now. And if we are not able yet to sever the connection altogether, let us
                  take the law into our own hands. The dozen bullets fired at Ballycohey, in
                  Tipperary, last year, did more for tenant-right in Ireland than all the
                  saponaceous eloquence of stump orators for the last half century. Had such a thing
                  happened before the Glenveigh evictions, we would not, in all probability, have to
                  write their sad tale now. There have been no evictions in Ireland since.
               To resume the broken thread of our narrative, the mountain commonage was rented by
                  a Scotch shepherd, who stocked it with the hardy Highland breeds of sheep and
                  cattle, and who resided himself in a romantic cottage on the shore of Glenveigh
                  Lough, called The Lodge. The plundered people could not naturally be
                  expected to look with favor on, and behave friendly toward the man who had taken,
                  to use a common and expressive phrase, the land over their heads. Still they
                  refrained from committing any outrages which might mark their keen sense of the
                  grievous wrong which they had sustained. They allowed him to live and go his way
                  in peace, keeping aloof from, and having no intercourse with him whatever. This
                  was the conclusion to which they came after holding councils and exchanging
                  opinions on the matter. No wonder, then, that the news of the murder of Murray—for
                  he it was who had taken to the mountains and lived in the Lodge—struck the group
                  of assembled peasants in Peter Bradley's room with horror and amaze.
               "He has got at last what he richly deserved from the first, the Scotch skulk,"
                  observed Frank Bradley, after the numerous expressions of astonishment had
                  subsided. "Coming here to take the lands which we and our forefathers for ages
                  rightfully owned. Though I fear some poor fellow will get into trouble about
                  it."
               
               "Yes," broke in Master MacDaid, now a little too serious to be pompous, but not a
                  whit too grave over the matter to attempt the perpetration of a pun, "he has got
                  his dessert, and every man should get his dessert after dinner, though in this
                  instance, I believe, he got his before it."
               "What time do they think he was murdered, if he was murdered?" asked
                  Billy Curran.
               "Why, I believe, he really did receive a direct impetus from some leaden planet,
                  revolving through space on its own axis, coming in contact with his head, which
                  must have carried his disembodied spirit across the Styx into Hades, instanter,"
                  replied Master MacDaid, regaining his old style. "And as for the hour, it is not
                  well known; but it is sufficiently understood that he had not dined. Paddy
                  Callaghan, who brought the news, believes he left home in the morning—I mean,
                  before noon; say eleven, ante-meridian—and informed his lady that he would be back
                  for dinner at four, post-meridian; but failed to fulfil his engagement. His two
                  dogs, covered with blood, returned about three, and their appearance exciting
                  suspicion, a search was instituted, and so Murray was found on the mountain in a
                  recumbent position, his spirit having fled the imprisoning frame of flesh through
                  a circular bullet-hole in the region of the right temple."
               "I know who did it!" exultingly cried Charley Friel, a lithe, vigorous young
                  fellow with an open and intelligent cast of countenance, who was a distant
                  relative of the Bradleys, and an admirer of pretty Nellie's numerous charms; the
                  only one to whom the capricious little Miss was ever known to show the slightest
                  favor.
               "Who?" queried a consort of voices.
               The youth glanced in the direction of Nellie, and, finding her entrancing eyes
                  firmly fixed upon him, blushed crimson; then, collecting the senses which the eyes
                  of his adored one had scattered like leaves before the windy gusts of November, he
                  replied:
               "Twas Bob Adams!"
               "How do you know that? Take care of what you say, Charley," said Mrs. Bradley.
               "Well," resumed Charley, "my reason for saying so is this: last Monday week as I
                  was returning home late in the evening. I saw Murray in an awful rage
                  horsewhipping Bob outside the lodge, and saying, with great vehemence at every
                  lash, that he would keep the young scamp from coming sneaking about his place. He
                  might pay his attentions to the wives and daughters of the mean and vicious Irish,
                  (how I felt like givin' the fellow a good sound trouncing, only that would be
                  helpin' Bob, the young blackguard!) but he would take good care Master Bob would
                  not come there undherminding the virtue of his wife (precious little of that same
                  she has, thought I); and Bob yowled like a young hound at every stroke. When he
                  got away a little bit, I heard Bob vowing vengeance against Murray, swift and
                  sure. I heard him say distinctly: 'Before a fortnight is passed your wife's virtue
                  will be little trouble to you, I'm sure!'"
               "Let no one ever hear you mention that again, Charley, child," counselled Mrs.
                  Bradley. "You don't know what trouble it might bring you into. At least, don't
                  speak of what you saw and heard till the inquest—of course there'll be one—is
                  over."
               Charley deprecated the idea of Mrs. Bradley calling him "child," and glanced at
                  Nellie as much as to say. "Your mother is mistaken, darling: I'm not a child,
                  Nellie, I'm a man!" and he drew up his form erect on his chair in proof of it.
               "A regular scamp that same Master Bob is," said Frank. "I was sorely tempted to
                  kick him the other day. He was talking to widow MacFaddin's Kitty, and holdin' her hand in his. The poor coleen looked like a frightened hare, and wanted to
                  get away from him. When I went up and ordered him to let her go, he said he 'did
                  not mean the girl any harm; that his poor mother was a widow woman's daughter whom
                  his father, when a bailiff for Lord Racken in the South, made believe he would
                  marry her, and on the strength of that promise, seduced her—the old reprobate!'
                  The fellow looked so, that I was inclined to think he was honest in what he said,
                  though I knew he was bad."
               "Don't have hard feelings for anyone, Frank," said his mother, quietly. "The poor
                  young fellow is good enough. And if he isn't as good as he ought to be, sure that
                  is no wonder, seein' the sort of a man his father is. And his poor unfortunate
                  mother had not the consolation of rearin' him and teachin' him to be good, in her
                  sorrow."
               "That's true," broke in Billy Curran. "You all mind the time she came down here
                  last winter in the frost an' snow, with scarcely enough o' clothin' to cover her
                  nakedness, to see her boy, and beg something from the baste that betrayed and
                  ruined her. Well, she stayed two nights and days with us, and she tould Mary
                  there," pointing to his daughter, "how they took the child away from her, and
                  never let her look on him from that day to this. Three rough-lookin' men, she
                  said, with their faces blackened, came to her mother's wan night and took it away,
                  and she cried, and begged, and fainted. One of the ruffians struck her on the face
                  with the back of his open hand, an' she says she was almost sure it was her
                  destroyer—the villain! She went over to the cottage the second day she was with
                  us, an' she threw herself on her knees before him, but he spurned her away, an'
                  raged, an' cursed, an' foamed, an' kicked her, telling the poor deceived creature
                  to leave his sight and never appear in it more—the savage monster! When she went
                  away, he sent Adam Grierson, the bailiff, afther her to watch where she would go
                  to, an' she came to our house again. Sure enough. Adam—the limb of the devil!—came
                  next mornin' an' tould me if I did not send away the sthrange woman that was
                  there. Mr. Adams would soon leave me without a shelther for meself, much less one
                  for every sthrollin' vagabon' iv a woman that came about. Poor Mary then cried,
                  and begged me not to put the helpless, broken hearted creature out on the waves iv
                  the world in such weather an' to be sure myself was anxious enough to give the
                  poor woman the shelter in the corner, an' the bit an' sup, an' the bed to lie on,
                  but she wouldn't hear tell iv it. She said he would desthroy us if she stayed, and
                  she knew too well what misfortune and misery were herself to be the means of
                  bringing them on any other. An' when she was goin' away, Mary put a good warm
                  dhress on her, and filled her little basket with bread an' butter, an' a wee drop
                  o' wine in a bottle to warm her on the way. As you all mind, the next week she was
                  found dead in the Poisoned Glen beyond, with two big eagles tearin' up her cowld
                  corpse!"
               This recital cast a shade of gloom and sorrow over the kind-hearted peasants, who
                  were ever ready to sympathize with suffering, no matter who the victim might be,
                  and deepened the already existing and deep-rooted animosity which they entertained
                  towards Adams, their new landlord.
               Little more was said, and, as the hour was late, the little party prepared to take
                  their departure.
               "You are a provoking little puss. Nellie," whispered Charley Friel, as he held
                  that coy maiden's hand in his, and imprinted a kiss on her fresh fair young cheek,
                  while they stood behind the door half screened from observation. "I have taken
                  only the loan of it, Nell," continued he; "I'll pay you back, with one for
                  interest, the next time."
               
               "What is that you say, Charley?" asked Mrs. Bradley, who was standing near,
                  unobserved.
               "I'm telling Nellie that that escaped convict of the devil, Adams, will get his
                  dues yet," responded the unabashed and ingenious Charley.
               With a low, merry laugh, and a slap on the cheek. Nellie bounded away from him,
                  waving a good-night with her pretty, plump little hand.
               "Good-night—adieu, Mrs. B.," cried Master MacDaid. "The delectable entertainment
                  which you have afforded me to-night shall remain eternally enshrined in the temple
                  of my happiest recollections. By the thunder of Jupiter! but I fear. Mrs. B., the
                  potency of Peter's rectified, or rectifidus (you can make Latin of any word by
                  turning the ending into o or us. Mrs. B.,—the potency
                  of Peter's rectified poteen. I say, will overpower me. I fear; but he was so
                  pressing, and it was so treacherously strong. However. I will wrestle with it," he
                  continued, making a profound obeisance, with his hat in his left hand, and his
                  right pressed on the region of his heart. "Hail thou nocturnal luminary of this
                  nether sphere!" he cried, observing the moon, which was after rising, pale and
                  watery-looking, over the tops of the mountains. "Thy chaste and silvery light
                  shall illumine my way to you mansion of the Muses—yonder citadel of learning,
                  which I, Master James MacDaid. Philomath. Poet, and Classic Conqueror, call my
                  home, and where I dwell like a god on Olympus, dispensing information to
                  mortals!"
               "Mary, you have made me happy to-night," whispered Frank Bradley to the gentle
                  girl who leaned affectionately on his arm, and whom he was accompanying home, her
                  father walking a little in front of them.
               She turned up her fair, sweet face, and, gazing fondly on him with her great dark
                  eyes, murmured: "I hope I may always make you so."
               He bent down and kissed her upturned face in an ecstasy of passionate delight.
               "You will, you will—I know you will, darling," he cried.
               Mary Curran was a fair, affectionate, tender, sensible girl, with a classic
                  contour of face, and perfect regularity of features, save where Nature here and
                  there went a perceptible touch astray from the rigid regularity of its plan, which
                  touch gave attraction, zest, and intelligence to the face, and relieved it from
                  the insipidity of perfectness. These touches cannot be described, but may be
                  noticed frequently by those who mix and mingle in the gatherings of the gay, the
                  young, the fair.
               A world of nut-brown hair clustered round her noble-like brow, and rolled, when
                  let loose, in ringlets rich and rare, adown to her slender waist. In her large
                  dark eye there was a wondrous depth, and was shaded with long silky lashes. Her
                  complexion was almost transparent—transfigured we might say—with purity, and
                  possessed, below and about the eyes, that delicate violet-like tint which is so
                  beautiful, and only to be seen among the daughters of Erin.
               True, she was only the daughter of an Irish peasant, and the flush of exercise
                  often suffused her face, and destroyed for the time the delicate beauty of her
                  complexion. But, as we remember to have read somewhere in Cobbett's Cottage
                  Economy, what if the stamp of labor did occasionally glisten on her brow, where is
                  the man who would not sooner kiss it off than lick the plaster from the cheek of a
                  duchess? That man was not Frank Bradley. He loved her passionately, devotedly, but
                  with all the platonic purity of a brother's affection, and as much for the inward
                  and hidden beauties of her mind and heart, as for the outward and exposed graces
                  of her face on I figure. And she loved him as deeply and devotedly.
               How happy in their loves and hopeful of the future they were, as they traversed,
                  arm-in-arm, the footpath that led between their respective homes!
               
               "My happiness is so great. Mary, that I think it is but a dream from which I will
                  be rudely awakened to meet a stern reality;" and he drew her arm closer within his
                  own, as if afraid some imaginary thing was going to deprive him of her.
               "Don't say that, Frank dear, it would make me sad. Nellie told me when coming away
                  that all was arranged to-night, and we are to be married whatever time I like to
                  fix:" and she blushed for shame in her perfect purity and angel innocence of
                  heart, and hid her face in the folds of the shawl which wrapt her from the
                  cold.
               "Ah! then my happiness would be complete, for then I would find relief from this
                  dread which oppresses me, that something will yet take you from me. How glorious
                  life would be! how bright, how blissful, to love and live with you forever! Never
                  to be parted from you till by the cold hand of death, and even then only in form
                  and not in spirit! But I have a presentiment which I cannot shake off that such a
                  complete, a consummate happiness, will never be mine: or, if it be, not till after
                  many sufferings and sorrows."
               "Frank, darling!" murmured Mary, having recovered her calmness, after the
                  agitation which her delicate sense of shame had caused her, "you must not sink
                  into such a desponding mood, and look so dark and doubtfully on our future."
               "I will not, my own, my precious Mary! I'll do anything you ask me," he
                  passionately replied.
               "And now," she continued. "I was just thinking that we would—we would—but I'll not
                  say it," and again she hid her face in the folds of her shawl.
               "Do, Mary—do, love!" he urged. "You know you need not be under any restraint in
                  saying anything to me," he pleaded.
               "Well, I was thinking that we would not get married till beautiful May would come,
                  and the fields be green and the wild flowers fresh and blooming, and the hedges
                  white with fragrant blossoms, and the lake calm and bright, and the mountains
                  crowned with the pure blue wreaths of mist, and the linnets and thrushes all
                  singing in the warm sunshine. How pleasant, how beautiful it would be," she
                  continued, entranced with the poetry of the scene which she contemplated. "And how
                  well the chapel yard would look, with the wild geraniums growing round the gate,
                  and the laburnums drooping under their load of yellow blossoms, and the trees all
                  green, and the violets and primroses growing along the walls, and the grassy
                  carpet all bespangled with daisies, and the walks lined with sweet-briar all
                  blossom and scent, and the perfume of the mignonette floating out on the calm air
                  through the Sacristy windows, and, inside, the Virgin's Altar dressed with
                  fresh-blown roses, red and pink and white, with the dew of morning on them. How
                  beautiful it will be, Frank darling!"
               "Yes, love, it will be beautiful:—and how happy we will be!"
               "Well, now, is the time fixed? Will we put it off till then?"
               "Yes, my own Mary; since it is your wish, it is my happiness. And now here we are
                  at the door, and I'll bid you good-night, love." He bent down his face and kissed
                  the sweet mouth which she held up to him, and then, highly ashamed of her conduct,
                  she rushed in, and to her own little room, to give vent to the tide of happiness,
                  which surcharged her breast, in a fit of weeping. Such is the capricious nature of
                  woman!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               FATHER AND SON.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Oh man! thou feeble tenant of an hour,
                           Debased by slavery, or corrupt by power,
                           Who knows thee well must quit thee with disgust,
                           Degraded mass of animated dust!
                           Thy life's a lie, thy love is lust—
                           Vile by nature, noble but in name,
                           Each kindred brute might bid thee blush for shame!"
                        
                     
                     BYRON.
                  
               
               THE scenery of Glenveigh is wildly, awfully magnificent in the extreme. The glen
                  itself is eight or ten miles long, and can be entered at both ends. The lower half
                  of it is covered by a sheet of water, dotted over with little islands, crowned
                  with dwarf birch and alders, from which, in times gone by, the curling smoke
                  ascended in wreathy columns, and indicated where the enterprising distiller
                  carried on his legitimate, though "illegal," operations of making poteen; and many
                  a good story is told of "how Paddy was up to the gauger" on numerous occasions.
                  This is called Glenveigh Lough in contradistinction to Loughveigh, which lies on
                  the opposite side of the Derryveigh mountains, and which is connected with Gartan
                  Lough by a small stream. It is a remarkable fact that, though salmon are found in
                  Loughveigh in great abundance, not one has ever been known to exist in Gartan,
                  notwithstanding their connection.
               The other, or upper half of the glen is much narrower, and, save a green strip
                  about ten perches broad along the side of a small river which runs down and flows
                  into the Lough, is covered with holly, hazel, birch, dwarf ash and oak. The
                  mountain range on the west side runs straight the whole length of the gorge or
                  glen, and rises almost completely perpendicular from the bottom to the height of a
                  thousand feet. Down this stupendous barricade of nature, cascades are eternally
                  fretting and foaming at the regular distance of about a furlong apart, and the
                  rush and roar of their angry and agitated waters resound and reverberate through
                  the whole extent of the glen without cessation, like the hoarse murmur of Nature's
                  prayers to the Deity.
               The other side slopes upward gradually, clothed with heather to the length of
                  fifteen or twenty feet in some places, till it terminates in rocky barrenness at
                  the top On the back, or, rather, front side of this range, facing Gartan Lough,
                  the tenants mostly dwelt, and not, properly speaking, in the glen.
               Entering the glen at the upper extremity, one's spirit will instinctively bow in
                  homage and in awe, as if it stood in the very presence of the Almighty Himself.
                  There, on the summit of that stupendous bluff, you will be forced to acknowledge
                  that the genius of sublime and savage grandeur reigns supreme: while yonder sheet
                  of water, cast in gloomy shade by the furrowed and frowning brow of the precipice,
                  mirrors eternity in its dark and silent depths.
               Here, a little above the lough, the Cottage, a cosy little structure, in which
                  Adams lived where he came there for a month or so occasionally, nestled at the
                  base of the mountain range which bounds the eastern side of the glen. The night
                  before the day on which Murray met his sudden and unexpected fate, he sat in his
                  arm-chair beside the fire in the richly-furnished room which he occupied when
                  there, and which was always locked up when he was away.
               Beside him stood a table covered with decanters containing all kinds of drink,
                  save where it was littered over and piled up with rent-rolls, notices to quit, and
                  other documents of a kindred nature. A belt, filled with loaded ed revolvers, lay on a small side-table at his
                  elbow. These he always kept near him—buckled round him when out, and on a table
                  beside his hand, when in: for he feared retributive justice—"the wild justice of
                  revenge"—at the hands of his wronged and oppressed serfs. Even he still had a sort
                  of conscience which told him of his injustice, and taught him to fear the victims
                  of it. Truly, conscience doth make cowards of us all!
               He was after coming out of a back bedroom which led from his sitting apartment,
                  and as he sat down in his chair his flabby face looked flashed and apoplectic, and
                  his low, brutal, receding brow was clammy with the cold dew of perspiration. His
                  eye was mixed, muddy and clouded, and his cheeks hung down in bags of flabby
                  flesh, bleached and bloodless-looking, except when he was excited by passion, and
                  then they grew scarlet and twitched spasmodically. His lips, swollen as if by
                  dropsy, and colorless, wrought nervously as he pressed them together, and his
                  tongue made a smacking sound against his toothless gums.
               Altogether, as he sat there, with a vicious expression on his bloated features, he
                  appeared a man who had long indulged in the basest and most brutalizing
                  debaucheries.
               "Dora," he grunted, addressing a young woman who came out of the bedroom after
                  him, and who seemed to be about twenty-four, and must have possessed a fair and
                  more than common share of personal charms in her day: for, though every feature of
                  her face bore unmistakable traces of unrestrained indulgence of every kind, she
                  yet retained not a few tokens of beauty, which one of New York's Grecian Benders
                  on Broadway might heartily envy, if she could heartily do anything. "Dora," he
                  grunted, filling out a glassful of old, crusted port, "take this glass of wine,
                  and then go tell Bob, if he be in, that I want him."
               The demoiselle drank off the wine at one gulp, with a flush of pleasure on her
                  bold, brazen face, and then, giving a wanton shake to the skirts of her dress,
                  swept out of the room.
               She found Master Bob in his own room, luxuriously reclining on a sofa, with a
                  sealskin rug thrown carelessly over him, whiffing a cigar and twirling the ends of
                  his moustache with great diligence and evident self-complacency.
               "Well, Dora," he observed on her entrance, and spoke in a husky voice, as if he
                  was under the influence of liquor, which, in sooth, he always was, if he
                  could—"Dora, thou naiad of the lake, thou nymph of the woods, thou oread of the
                  mountain, come here, my beautiful, my bright, come and pleasure thyself in the
                  loving embraces of thy lord. You know, fair goddess of the grotto, the true
                  philosophy of nature, which we all should regulate our lives by, is beautifully
                  expressed by wild Will Shakespeare in the couplet occurring in the moral poem of
                     Venus and Adonis. Thus it runs, my delightful Dora— 
                     
                        "Seeds spring from seeds; beauty breedeth beauty;
                        Thou wast begot, to get, too, is thy duty."
                     
                   And thou art so beautiful, my Dora, that the injunction
                  falls with double imperativeness on thy fair head."
               "Bob," she replied, "you will find other business at the present. Your beautiful
                  papa requests your presence immediately; and, if I might judge from the mood of
                  temper which he seems to be in. I would be inclined to think you will find the
                  interview anything but a pleasant one."
               "My soul, Dora, but I'm sorry to learn that the old gentleman isn't in possession
                  of a pleasant temper at the present time; but, by gad, Dora, the adjective you
                  used expressive of the personal appearance of my honored ed parent, had a touch of sarcasm in it, I am
                  inclined to believe. Entre nous, Dora, the old
                  chap is a beautiful boy," he continued, rising, placing his hand on the
                     lady's shoulder, and glancing at her with the leer of the
                  libertine, "and beautifully do you and I wheedle and befool him, the old carcass
                  of corruption."
               Not over respectful words those for a son to use with reference to his father; but
                  they were as good as could be expected, and, indeed, as good as he deserved.
               "I hope you will find the beauty of his temper equal to the beauty of his face
                  to-night, Bob," she said, again giving a wanton shake to her dress, and sweeping
                  from the apartment.
               "I suppose," soliloquized Bob, after the fair Dora was gone. "I suppose I must go
                  and see the old fellow. I wonder what brings the old blackguard to the glen at
                  all. I'm sure we could do without him nicely. Dora and I could manage things
                  first-rate, and play the host and hostess towards the visitors who come to see the
                  scenery. The deuse! but that reminds me that there were a half-dozen first-class
                  wenches—and buxom too—among the party of schoolgirls who came out from Letterkenny
                  last week, where they are confined among the dust and dreariness of an old humdrum
                  convent. I might have got a kiss from one of them only for the officious,
                  impertinent watchfulness of that old eunuch of a priest who was with them. And the
                  grave-faced old nun, too. who would not come into the cottage because—phew!—it was
                  against rules, and she had not got that liberty from his Lordship, the Bishop,
                  coming out. Well, by Jove! if that wasn't good. But all old maids," philosophized
                  Bob, as he staggered along in the direction of his parent's apartment, "all old
                  maids who have failed to meet with some follow to behave kindly and obligingly
                  towards them, seek consolation in religion, and become austere old saints—the
                  stubborn old sinners! By the sword of Damocles! if those sort be the only
                  specimens of their sex who are to go to the upper regions, I would have myself
                  ticketed for the down train by which the fair and frail ones cross the bourne from
                  whence there is no return, as Shakespeare hath it. No. by Jove! there are no
                  return tickets granted on that line. But here I am at the door of old Pluto's
                  chamber. Softly! I'll startle his privacy by my sudden and overpowering presence.
                  But no. I'll rap, and be a gentleman."
               The reader is already aware of Bob's parentage, but is nescient as yet of his
                  antecedents. He was, when a mere child forcibly carried away from the arms of the
                  fair young thing—his mother—whom his villanous father had betrayed, ruined, and
                  then abandoned. He was sent to an old aunt of his father, in the Highlands of
                  Scotland, to be reared and trained. Having picked up some learning there at one of
                  the Government schools, he was sent to the Royal College of Surgeons, London, at
                  the age of twenty. There he spent seven years in riot, drunkenness, and
                  debauchery, and received, at the end of that time, a diploma for midwifery, as a
                  proof of his application and aptitude for medical science. He was as he was went
                  to boast, an accouchent general"
               After his distinguished collegiate career he came to live at Glenveigh. and there
                  he passed a dissolute, drunken life for over a year before we place him opposite
                  the kaleidoscope of our take, to be viewed with edification, and an inclination to
                  imitate him, by the reader.
               "What dishonorable transaction is this with which I find your name mixed up?"
                  Adams demanded, without lifting his eyes from off the rent-roll which he was
                  examining.
               "Let us understand each other at the beginning, and we'll get over the little
                  business the sooner," replied Bob, "flinging himself at full length on a sofa. "In
                  the first place. I don't exactly understand the strict meaning ing you may apply to the word 'dishonorable.' For
                  instance, to illustrate the great difference of meaning which men hold for the
                  same word, and the contradictory terms which men apply to the same thing. I may
                  remark that one man may call a substance food, and use it as such, while another
                  will call it filth, and fling it away;" and he looked triumphant over this display
                  of his talent for what he called "logical disetinction."
               "To dishonorable I add mean and cowardly transaction and you may take the worst
                  meaning they are capable of as the one I wish to convey."
               "I am at a loss to know what transaction you refer to," growled Bob, determined to
                  be angry too, if necessary. "Pray explain."
               "I mean that affair with Murray's wife. I suppose you don't think such things
                  worth remembering."
               "I never give them a second thought," he replied, with perfect nonchalance. "It
                  was only a little bit of laison—an affair de cœur—to while away the time which passes so
                  monotonously dull in the glen. Surely you don't think that mean or cowardly! Why,
                  egad quite the contrary—was the only way I could show my gallantry here you know;"
                  and he leered knowingly at his honored parent.
               "There wasn't much gallantry. I think" and his dropsical lips tried to curl into a
                  sarcastic grin, "in allowing your lady-love's husband to whip you like a craven
                  curdog."
               "Quite right, sir," said Bob, taken aback and his bantering tone gone. "But, you
                  see, for the lady's sake, I wanted to keep the thing quiet. Thus you see, my
                  forbearance on that trying occasion was only proof positive of my chivalrous
                  gallantry," he added, regaining his tone of banter on the strength of his last
                  happy idea.
               "Very prudent. But unfortunately for your chivalrous intentions it is well known
                  among the vulgar vermin of the glen. They have made you the butt of their
                  wit—which we must own they possess—and their laughing-stock."
               "It matters little to me. I am too far above them to notice their wretched
                  remarks," replied Bob, in a tone of affected dignity.
               "But it matters to me. I can't allow myself to be ridiculed, indirectly, through
                  those connected with me, by the wretched serfs."
               "I shall send him a challenge to-morrow morning, by Adam Grierson, the bailiff,
                  appointing time and place for a meeting, with pistols," remarked Bob, laboring
                  under a sudden fit of bravery.
               Tis more than a week now since the occurrence. Your heroism was too long getting
                  screwed up to the point. He would only laugh at you. The idea of his whipping you
                  like a whining spaniel, and you not notice it for a week! It would be too much for
                  the gravity of any man."
               "He lashed me like a spaniel, you say, and I say he
                  shall die the death of a dog. I vowed vengeance on his head when he did it; I have
                  not fulfilled that vow yet, but I will—I will, soon and fully."
               The mist partially cleared away from the landlord's eye, and his foul features
                  bore an infernal expression of malignant delight, at this declaration of intention
                  on the part of Bob.
               "Sit over," he said, "and take a glass of something to brace up your nerves. They
                  must be unstrung by the agitation caused by thinking over such an insult."
               Bob, as may be understood, very readily complied with the request. He drank off a
                  wineglassful of brandy, and filled out another.
               "Bob," began Adams, glancing at his hopeful son. "I have always found you
                  discreet, and worthy of confidence. I have, therefore, sent for you to-night, not
                  to administer reproof for your petty failings and pleasant follies, for these we all have, and should be
                  charitable to one another: but to admit you to my most secret confidence. Murray,
                  as you are aware, has leased the mountains for a term of twenty years, but two of
                  which have elapsed. The last time I was in Scotland. I was offered by a shepherd,
                  from the Shetland Islands, over double the rent which Murray pays for the lands
                  which he holds. As he has got a lease. I cannot, you understand, raise his rent or
                  evict him. Now, it is too bad for me to let him hold on at less than half what I
                  could get, and that for eighteen years. In truth. I can't do it. But how am I to
                  get rid of him? that's the question."
               "Yes," broke in Bob, getting gloriously fuddled, "'that's the question,' as Will
                  Shakespeare says."
               "It can easily be done. Bob. If you fulfil your vow of vengeance, then it's done.
                  You can talk to Adam Grierson of it—he knows all about the whipping—and he is the
                  man to assist you through. He will fancy you only want to revenge the insult you
                  received, while he will be completely ignorant of my interest in the matter. You
                  know it would be playing rather too loose a game for me to appear in any way
                  interested in putting Murray out of the road, as we don't know what moment.
                  Grierson might turn round, for no one can safely place confidence in such men.
                  Should he ever turn on us—and we don't know what moment he might do so—it would be
                  a serious matter, indeed, for me. But you?—why, you could easily escape to some
                  other country, where I would make you comfortable for life."
               "Faith," said Bob, "I don't at all relish the idea of flying the country, a
                  pursued murderer."
               "But that would be only in the event of Grierson's turning informer. We are only
                  talking of what could easily be done in the event of things happening which are
                  nearly impossible, if not altogether, to occur."
               "I see," said Bob, a little relieved by this encouraging view of the question. "I
                  shall see Adam in the morning ing, and that trifling affair shall be settled and
                  past before night, I'm sure. But, by Jove! you have forgotten about
                  the fair and frail Mrs. Murray, my kind and considerate friend, which she is. I
                  assure you, governor."
               "Pshaw!" he replied: "do you think a woman will remain among people who, as she
                  will suppose, murdered her husband? Not likely, I should think. She will run to me
                  at once and give up the place. Then, calling an auction sale on the stock and her
                  little furniture, and disposing of them, she will fly with all speed from this
                  savage and God-forsaken land. And to mark my deep sense of the murderous outrage
                  committed on my property, I shall offer one thousand pounds myself, for the
                  capture and conviction of the murderer or murderers."
               "Well is that all?" queried Bob, becoming hopelessly stupid from the effects of
                  the brandy to which he liberally helped himself.
               "No, not all," cried the exultant Mr. Adams, flushed with the anticipated triumph
                  of his villanous schemes, and pouring out and swilling another glass of old
                  port.
               "No, not all. Bob. To further mark my horror for the barbarous act. I shall sweep
                  the scum of wretched animals, who encumber my property, off it; for they, as it
                  will be believed, and no others, committed the deed out of revenge for the loss of
                  the mountains. I could not think of sweeping them away wholesale without some
                  reason to show for doing it. I would have the greater part of the newspaper
                  scribblers, and all the blatant bellowers who go about the country making
                  seditious speeches and plotting rebellion, at me; and, perhaps, some seditious M.
                  P., such as that Moore* or Maguire, might haul me before the House of Commons about it. I
                  couldn't stand it. But putting it on the grounds of Murray's murder. it will seem a virtuous act in me.
                  No one will dare to question it. Thus will I sweep the low vermin out of my way. I
                  thank Johnson that he didn't give them leases. But, I suppose, they didn't ask
                  him, or he would have been fool enough to give them. They felt sufficiently safe
                  while he was over them, but now they would take them quickly. Ha! ha! I'll give
                  them a touch of what I used to do in the south, Bob. Thus, my boy, have I ever
                  triumphed in life. and thus must every man do who intends to!"

               
                  *Since the above was written, George Henry
                     Moore, the eloquent and fearless advocate of his country's rights, has passed
                     from among men. Peace to the soul of the Patriot!
               
               His brow grew dark as midnight, his eyes glared like a wild beast's through the
                  mist that clouded them. the muscles of his face wrought convulsively. his thick.
                  swollen lips smacked together, and his hand came down with a tremendous crash on
                  the table, jingling all the glasses and decanters on it. and breaking not a few.
                  Even Bob was startled out of his drunken stupefaction by this outbreak of furious
                  and malignant passion.
               "The night grows late; I think I'll go to bed. Good-night. Governor. I'll see
                  Grierson in the morning, and you may look on that little job as accomplished."
               "Good-night, Bob. Tell Dora I want to see her: and, mind don't forget in the
                  morning!"
               "All right, sir," hiccuped Bob, as he staggered out of the door.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               MURDER!—THE ASSASSINS PLOTTING VILLANY.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I find thee apt:
                           And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
                           That rots itself in ease on Lethe's wharf,
                           Wouldst thou not stir in this!"
                        
                     
                     SHAKESPEARE.
                  
               
               MR. Bob Adams was up and stirring early next morning, and looked remarkably fresh.
                  considering the deep debauch in which he indulged, even after we saw him, the
                  previous night.
               He despatched a messenger, "at the gray dawn of morn." to Adam Grierson's.
                  commanding the attendance of that useful individual, at once and without
                  delay.
               Adam was up, and regaling himself with some cold mutton, bread, and a tankard of
                  beer, when the courier arrived, notwithstanding that he, too, had been diving deep
                  in his cups, "till the wee sma' hours ayont the twal'," the night before; for Adam
                  was a convivial character, but after the stolid, gluttonous fashion of the boorish
                  Yorkshire ploughman. He speedily stowed away the cheer that lay before him in his
                  capacious interior, and hastened with all alacrity to obey the summons.
               Grierson was the head bailiff, the confidential and conscienceless scoundrel ready
                  to do anything, even to the extent of imbruing his hands in human blood, at the
                  beck or bidding of Adams or his worthy son Bob. He was bailiff for Lord Racken in
                  the south when Adams was the agent. Thus, his worth was well known to
                  Adams, who availed himself of his services when he came to need
                  one of his class. And Adam was fully as good a villain, and clever, as his
                  master.
               While Murray was losing numbers of sheep every week, Adam was feasting and
                  fattening on some of them, and selling the remainder at fairs in a distant part of
                  the county.
               This, of course, was laid to the charge of the peasantry. The consequence was
                     that a sheep tax was put upon the district by the Grand
                  Jurors at Assizes, at the instance of Murray, and every sheep which strayed away,
                  or was actually stolen by Grierson and a confederate whom he had in the person of
                  one of Murray's subshepherds, an enormous price was levied upon the poor people
                  for it. Three extra stations of police were also established in the glen, with
                  eight men in each. for the sole and special purpose of collecting the tax. And the
                  pay of this police force, because it was extra to the requirements under ordinary
                  circumstances, came exclusively from the pockets of the oppressed and impoverished
                  tenantry. It was collected with the sheep-tax.
               And this was in Ulster, where the peasant population is said to be prosperous and
                  contented, and enjoy the benefits and blessings of tenant right! Ay, and it was at
                  a time, too, when a liberal administration—which, of course, was eager and anxious
                  to do justice to the Irish—ruled the country!
               Bob lounged on a sofa in his private apartment, smoking a cigar, and calmly
                  waiting Grierson's arrival at the Cottage. of which he cave orders to have
                  immediate notice. On a table, an arm's length from him, stood a bottle of brandy
                  and another of soda water.
               "The old fellow is deep and cunning." he soliloquized. lazily recalling the
                  conversation of the previous night with all the vague indistinctness of a dream.
                  "He has got all the wily cunning of a Cassius, but I must ply the dagger of a
                  Brutus. Well, there is one consolation: our Cæsar, Murray, can't turn on me and
                  exclaim, 'et tu, Bob!' No, by Jove! he can't be
                  so much disappointed in me as that; for he and I were never friends, though his
                  wife and I were. It will be only what he might have expected at my hands. However,
                  I heartily wish the petite tragedy was over, for
                  I feel awfully shaky and nervous about it."
               There was a rap at the door. "Come in!" responded he, and presently Miss Dora
                  Raine entered, and chased the cloud from Bob's brow, and the cowardice from his
                  craven heart, by the beaming beauty of her angelic countenance.
               "I hope you feel in good tune this morning, Dora. Take a nip of that brandy and
                  soda to string your nerves after last night."
               "My nerves are always strung, Bob, However, to oblige you I will take a taste.
                  Adam Grierson has just dome, and I came in to tell you," she continued, after
                  swilling her "morning." "That brandy is good, Bob."
               "Yes, Dora. By Jove! 'tis drink for the gods, but not a bit too good for you, fair
                  goddess of Glenveigh!"
               "Shall you come and see Grierson?"
               "No: tell him to come here. By being condescending to such fellows, now and again.
                  Dora, we lose nothing. They will the readier do little things for us
                  occasionally."
               "Very true," concurred the demirep, and, with a suggestive shake to her dress, she
                  sailed majestically away.
               On Grierson's entering, Bob graciously invited him to a seat and a drink, both of
                  which were gratefully accepted.
               "Adam, I presume you are aware of the cowardly insult which I, perforce, received
                  at the hands of that brute Murray, a few nights ago?"
               "I've heard it talked about among the people," replied Adam, and his countenance
                  combined in its expression the grimace of
                  the ape with the gravity of the owl, at the recollection of Bob's
                  discomfiture.
               "You would not think it strange, Adam, that I should revenge myself of such
                  insult?"
               "Scarcely, Why, I'd think you were no man if you didn't."
               "Right, Adam. You know my fiery and gallant disposition too well to think I could
                  be guilty of such a mean, dastardly action as to overlook it. I will not. My very
                  soul would revolt against the thought of such cowardice. It would refuse to give
                  life any longer to this arm, which would fall paralyzed and powerless by my side,
                  like the decayed branch of a tree, in the event of such an unworthy dereliction of
                  the duties I owe my manhood!"
               "How will you meet him, Master Bob? With pistol or poniard?"
               "Phew! Do you really imagine I would demean myself so far, and be so criminally
                  careless of my dignity, as to meet a mere bog-trotting sheepman in honorable
                  combat? Not I! Were he a gentleman, my equal in society, I would gladly accord him
                  that privilege. But he is not, and my honor, which I must sustain on all
                  occasions, and at all sacrifices, forbids me. It would be the greatest pleasure to
                  me. I assure you. Adam. to have a tilt with the foils, or a bit of target practice
                  with the pistols; but I can't sacrifice my dignity to gratify my. I must say,
                  strong, very strong inclination for the tournament."
               "What, then, do you intend doing? How do you expect to have satisfaction?"
               "By shooting him like a dog!"
               "But you say you won't, can't meet him with pistols?"
               "Are there no ways of blowing a man's brains out but by meeting him face to face
                  in honorable combat?"
               "Oh, ay! There are more ways of killing a dog than by choking him with
                  butter."
               "You understand me, then, Adam?"
               "Can't say: but I think I see what you're driving at You'd have him despatched
                  quietly?"
               "Exactly, I may rely on your assistance and secrecy in the matter?"
               "Well—aw—yeas. If you want it done, why, it must be done. But, as this is extra
                  duty. I think it should be an extra item in the pay." Adam remarked, with a low
                  laugh, half serious, half in jest.
               "Twenty pounds shall be yours when it's done. And there's a stamp, good for five
                  at any bank in the kingdom, as earnest."
               "And now for the plans," suggested the wretch, rolling up the note carefully, and
                  putting it in his pocket.
               "Our plans are simple, and easily laid. Of course, Murray will as usual, be on the
                  mountains; and as he generally walks alone, there will be no fear of getting the
                  opportunity to send him the leaden messenger without being observed."
               "But." suggested Adam. beginning to look serious on the subject. "suppose anything
                  should be suspected in this quarter, what proof have I that you will not betray
                  and denounce me?"
               "The supposition is preposterous. But, granting it, I think I am myself deeply
                  enough involved to settle your fears on that head. However, to satisfy your
                  scruples, Adam, I will go with you; and, after you have taken him down, we will
                  both beat him into crickets' feet with the butts of our guns."
               "Yes," cried the ruffian, exultingly, as if struck with a bright idea; "and that
                  will throw all suspicion on the other side. It will be thought then that he was
                  beaten to death with clubs by some of the tenants: whereas, if only a gunshot
                  wound appeared on him. there would, at least, appear a possibility that they did
                  not do it—for, you know, the police take good care that there are no arms among
                  the people."
               
               "Right. Adam, right. Your idea is a good one. So, all is settled now. Our best
                  time will be about one or two o'clock: all the tenants will be in at dinner then.
                  In the meantime, we will enjoy ourselves. Take some of that brandy, and I'll order
                  some cold meat and bread for you."
               The two assassins sat enjoying themselves, and laughing at Bob's coarse, low,
                  ribald jests.
               As they anticipated, they got a favorable opportunity. Murray was on the back side
                  of the mountain, where there were no houses in view, no human ear near enough to
                  hear the report of the deadly discharge.
               They slunk along no ditch-sides on their murderous mission: they hid behind no
                  screening object waiting the approach of their victim. It was not necessary. Half
                  drunk, and wholly reckless in their sense of security, they openly walked along,
                  and approached the doomed man till they were within ten yards of him. Then both
                  fired almost on the same instant, and, walking up to the spot where he fell, they
                  beat him with the butts of their guns till he was mangled about the head beyond
                  recognition.
               Somewhat sobered and shocked by their dark and fearful deed, they hastened away,
                  and made for the cottage by a circuitous route.
               Coming near it, both lay down in a screening shade of close brushwood, as if by
                  instinct. A feeling, which neither of them could understand or account for,
                  prompted both to lie down. Each felt there was something they should think of and
                  advise about, but they knew not what it was. Bob was the first to speak.
               "That job's done, and well, too." he said, after they had lain a considerable
                  time, each communing with himself in death-like silence. "We have nothing to fear.
                  I think, unless that old saying, that 'dead men tell no tales,' turns out to be a
                  confounded lie."
               "Ay, but living men can, and may tell tales."
               "Pshaw! Adam. I didn't think you'd be such a coward, after all. Not even the eye
                  of a falcon saw us."
               "Even so. It is well known to every one in the glen how Murray whipped you, and I
                  heard Charley Friel—that young scamp who is everywhere and knows everything—say
                  that he was looking on, and heard you swearing fearful vengeance against Murray,
                  after you got away a bit."
               "The devil, you did!" gasped Bob. horror-struck.
               "I did. And you may be sure he will be only too glad to come forward at the
                  inquest and swear it."
               "Egad! this looks bad, Adam. That fellow's mouth must be shut—till all is over, at
                  least. What will we do?"
               "Don't know."
               "Adam." said Bob, in a low, sepulchral tone, while his face grew livid and deadly
                  pale in rapid alternation—"hadn't we better fly while there is yet time and
                  opportunity? I have as much money as will bring us out of the country—to America,
                  or anywhere."
               "I don't care for leaving here, particularly in such a way as that. Come Bob,
                  cheer up, and chase away that hang-dog look from your face. Who was talking of
                  cowards a little while ago? Look brave, man, if you can't
                     feel so."
               Poor Bob was in no mood to resent the hail-fellow familiarity of such language,
                  and stand for his dignity; so Grierson continued:
               "Twill be only a dance on the tight rope, at the worst. And, even then, we will
                  have the pleasure of taking our exits behind the curtain as the admired objects of
                  a large and highly respectable concourse of spectators. Why, man, you crouch in
                  there, and look as if the devil was already grasping at you, and you trying to get
                  away. I believe if you had anything sharper than a beetle at the present moment,
                  you would cut your throat with it. Hang
                  it, man! look up, or, rather, don't look so much, or you'll shoot your eyeballs
                  from your head. They look as big and bloodshot as a fresh-shot hare's. Rouse up, I
                  say, Bob: 'tis time enough to bid the 'old boy' good-morrow when you meet
                  him."
               "True, Adam," responded Bob, somewhat roused from his abject terror by Grierson's
                  coarse raillery. "'Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.' It was only a
                  rather severe touch of dyspepsia. I am now better. But jet us determine at once
                  what is to be done with that brat Friel. There is no time to be lost. Can it be
                  accomplished, think you, Adam?"
               "Quite easily. The simplest thing in the world," the ruffian replied, and his
                  small, red, ferret-like eyes peered out from under his brows with an infernal
                  light in them. "As soon as we find the body has been got. I will trot over to the
                  lower barrack: the constable and I are what is called 'pot companions,' and I'll
                  soon have Master Charley in a position where he will have to keep his mouth shut.
                  If I don't, call me Davy."
               "Have we no other one to fear, think you?"
               "Think not. Should any of the tenants come forward to say anything in his defence,
                  they won't be believed; for, you see, they are all supposed to be sworn to stand
                  to each other through thick and thin—murder, perjury, and all the rest."
               "Good!" exclaimed Bob, in the acme of delight. "This will be ten pounds more in
                  your pocket, Adam, my boy!"
               "I think it should, and I'm glad you think so, too. 'Tis only pleasure for a man
                  to work for a generous employer. And he'd be only an idiot who wouldn't do his
                  best for a man who pays liberally. That's my principle, and I've found it always
                  does well for me."
               "Hadn't you better slip home quietly, and not come into the Cottage, Adam? None of
                  the servants saw you coming out, and they think you went away immediately after
                  you came. We can't even trust them, you know."
               "Wait a wee—don't be in a hurry. You'll always spoil things if you do. I have
                  another bit of news to tell you that'll make your heartstrings tingle melodiously
                  with delight. When we were crossing along the side of the mountain you didn't
                  notice the fiery-headed Charley dancing along the top of it with a dog—I know you
                  didn't. But I did, though. Well, you see, even if the coroner were inclined to
                  believe anything in his defence, no one will be able to prove that he wasn't on
                  the hills that day (for, after all, these Irish are very ticklish about telling a
                  lie after they've kissed the book),—while I can swear that I saw him in that
                  direction. And though it was a good two hours before Murray got the 'mandamus'
                  that I saw him, still, that doesn't matter, and I may safely stick to the truth,
                  for it won't be known at what hour the murder was done. What do you say to that,
                  Master Bob?"
               "I say, Adam," cried Bob. in ecstasy, "that you're the cleverest fellow alive. By
                  the shade of the amorous Sappho, but you are!" and he grasped Adam's hand, and
                  wrung it till the blood almost started from the tips of his fingers.
               "There's no need. I should think, for such rude rapture over the matter," said
                  Adam, doggedly, smarting under the pain of his crushed digits. "You shouldn't
                  forget that a man's fingers are flesh and blood as well as bones."
               "I beg your pardon. Adam, I didn't intend to hurt, be assured," pleaded Bob,
                  apologetically.
               "I know you didn't, and that'll do on the head of it. I wish I had a drink of that
                  old brandy. I'm getting dry."
               "Wait a minute," cried Bob, eagerly, anxious to put his villanous confederate in
                  good humor before they parted; "I'll be out with a flask in a jiffy."
               He soon returned, and, together with the promised flask, he brought the news that
                  Murray's dogs had gone home, their
                  muzzles and sides covered with blood-stains, and that Mrs. Murray had sent over to
                  the Cottage for help to go search for her husband.
               "I had better go with them," continued Bob, "and help to look for him. Steal you
                  home quietly, Adam, and when you think the police have heard it, which they soon
                  will, start to the barrack and see your friend, the constable."
               "Ay,ay; that's just the way to do it, or I'm a stupid. By the Lord. Bob, but that
                  'nip' will help my imagination in concocting that bit of romance in which Master
                  Charley Friel is to have the distinguished honor of acting the part of the hero,"
                  and he took another long pull which emptied the flask as dry as a snuff-box.
               The ruffians parted. Bob to assist in finding the horrifying remains of their
                  victim, and express his virtuous indignation at the atrocious deed, and Adam to
                  weave a villanous web to entangle another unsuspecting victim.
               Grierson saw there was no need for delay, so he pushed direct for the barrack.
                  When he arrived there, he found no person in save the constable, who was lying on
                  a form in the day-room, in a state of semi-unconsciousness from the effects of
                  drink and the guard, who was walking back and forward through the hall way.
               "Good-morrow, Adam," said the bobby, * who was a big burley fellow, with a bullet-shaped
                  head, a red, puffy face, and the neck of a bull. "A beastly, big blackguard,"
                  Charley Friel was wont to call him.
               
                  *A popular synonyme for policeman in
                     Ireland.
               
               "Good-morrow, sir," Adam politely responded. "Are you left alone altogether this
                  evening, Mr. Hill?"
               "Not entirely alone, Adam. The constable is in the day-room."
               "And where are the rest of the men? Out still-hunting, are they?" queried Adam,
                  cautiously.
               "No; Mrs. Murray sent over a messenger, about an hour ago, with word that Murray
                  hadn't returned, and she feared something had happened. Women, you know, are such
                  frightened, nervous creatures about their husbands when out—though I believe she
                  was not much of a Penelope when her good man was absent. Bob Adams, I hear, knows
                  that."
               "Ha!" chuckled Adam, "and more than Bob, too. I believe Mr. Hill should know it,
                  too," he added with a grin.
               "Ha! ha!" roared the bull-headed bobby, whose greatest glory was that he should be
                  thought a gallant. "Did you really hear that Mrs. Murray and I were intimate?"
               "Faith, I did. Heard you were more intimate with her than was consistent with the
                  virtue of a woman who had a husband living, You play the deuce among the women.
                  Mr. Hill: they aren't able to resist your gallant appearance, good or bad—the
                  frail fair ones!"
               "Do you seriously think so, Mr. Grierson?"
               "No, but I'm sure of it. Mr. Hill."
               "Well, well, sure I can't help the loving creatures being fond of me. Come into
                  the kitchen, Adam. I should have a taste of something in a bottle about the
                  boot-shelf. Isn't that a knowing place to keep it, Adam?" he continued, taking
                  down a long boot, and pulling a pop-bottle out of the leg of it. "You know we
                  aren't allowed to keep any of this in the barracks."
               "Why, Mr. Hill, you're a real genius: and I don't wonder, after that, why the
                  girls are so fond of you."
               "Come, take a good pull, Adam. 'Tis good, and won't barm you."
               "Should think not," coughed Adam, having taken a draught. "But I must be
                  temperate. I have some business with Constable Fair. By-the-way, you say he's in
                  the day-room, Mr. Hill."
               "He is. Will I tell him you want to see him?"
               "I'd be much obliged to you."
               
               Hill returned in a few minutes, and told Adam he might go down.
               "I'm glad to see you, Adam," said Fair, after the usual salutations.
               "And I am to see you. Constable, and find you in."
               "I felt rather tired to go out with the men when Mrs. Murray sent for us. I
                  suppose you've heard the rumor that he was killed on the mountains," pursued Fair,
                  confusedly.
               "Who? Murray? Yes: and it was that brought me over. I think I know who did
                  it."
               "So you have come on business. But, before we begin, we'd better have something to
                  sharpen us up. Hill!" he shouted.
               "What's that, Constable?"
               "Is Nancy in?"
               "No."
               (Nancy was a poor woman whose husband was in America. She lived in a little but, a
                  mile and more from the barrack, and did the cooking and washing for the
                  police).
               "Well, bring us a jug of cold water yourself, then."
               Hill promptly obeyed.
               "Now, Adam," began Fair, as they sipped their grog, "you say you suspect who
                  committed this murder, for we will suppose it is a murder. Who was it?"
               "Young Charley Friel," said Adam, confidently.
               "A troublesome young scamp that. He has given us more annoyance, and played more
                  tricks on us, than any other rebellious brat in Ireland has ever done. I'll be
                  glad to have him under my thumb."
               "I knew that, and I came to give you the chance. 'Twill be your own fault if you
                  don't rid the country of him now."
               "I long waited for such an opportunity, and I am not likely now to let it slip.
                  But, what grounds have you for suspecting him, Adam? What are the grounds?"
               "Acres of grounds. In the first place, I often heard him swear he'd take Murray's
                  life—that was after Mr. Adams had let the mountains to him. In the next, you
                  remember Murray sent him to jail last summer for two months for pulling a burthen
                  of heather to make a bonfire on Midsummer Eve. I heard him often swear after he
                  came out that the devil would be making a bonfire of Murray's soul before next
                  Midsummer Night. But this is only a confirmation of my first reason. However, the
                  next is enough in itself to have him arrested, and that at once: I saw him
                  slouching over the mountain from the back side, with something in his hand like a
                  gun or club, and a dog at his heels. It was about twelve o'clock, as well as I can
                  judge."
               "That is enough. When the men return, if we find Murray was really murdered. I
                  will bring a couple of the boys, and we will go to the Cottage and have a
                  magistrate's warrant filled up by Mr. Adams for Friel's arrest."
               Soon after, the policemen who were out returned and reported the discovery of the
                  mangled remains of the shepherd.
               Soon Fair and Grierson, with three subs, were on their way to the Cottage. They
                  found Mr. Adams at home. Grierson swore his information, and John George Adams,
                  Justice of the Peace, issued the order for Charles Friel's arrest.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               IN PRISON.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "That which the world miscalls a jail,
                           A private closet is to me.—
                           While a good conscience is my bal'.
                           And innocence my liberty."
                        
                     
                     SIR ROBERT L'ESTRANGE.
                  
               
               WE believe we left Master James MacDaid holding converse with, and wooing the shy
                  and silvery queen of night on his way home from Peter Bradley's, in sublime
                  exaltation of spirits. Jamey was in that happy frame of mind in which Bobby Burns'
                  Tam O'Shanter found himself when leaving the old town of Ayr: 
                     
                        "Kings might be blessed, but he was glorious;
                        O'er a' the ills o' life victorious."
                     
                  
               
               Jamey was a poet, too, and wooed the Muses—if not with much success, with a rare
                  fidelity and devotion, at least. Indeed, he was often heard to say that it was his
                  faithfulness to the Nine, through the various phases of life, that prevented him
                  from marrying. "I have ever remarked," he would say," that as soon as a poet took
                  unto himself a mistress formed of earth's mud he invariably lost the heavenly gift
                  of poesy. And this is right. The Muses are, and ought to be, jealous virgins. And
                  as soon as a man becomes wretch enough to forsake their spiritual and inspiring
                  communion in order to gratify the gross desire of pressing lips with a vile
                  creation of clay, he richly deserves their curse, condemnation, and
                  abandonment."
               Jamey was, withal, like the most of poets, a creature of impulse. Notwithstanding
                  his sublime and sacrificing ing devotion to the Muses, he never failed to pay
                  assiduous attention to a pretty maiden when he met one in society. But, beyond
                  that, he never sinned against his sworn and sacred fidelity.
               Whether it was under the inspiration of Peter's poteen or that of poesy we cannot
                  venture to determine; but, true it is, that once he had gained the broad road he
                  burst out with the following strain, in an air not much unlike the modern one of
                  "Paddle your own Canoe":— 
                     
                        Come, flush to the brim!—our glasses fill:—
                        'Tis the genuine, real poteen,
                        And better ne'er ran from the eye of a still
                        In this whiskey-famed island, I ween.
                     
                     
                        And what though our rulers may call it a fault,
                        And a crime against their Queen;
                        Talk as they will we will brew our malt,
                        And we'll make our own poteen.
                     
                     
                        With taxes and rents we are hard put about,
                        Our pleasures are faint and few;
                        But, ah! it were better to murder us out,
                        Than deny us the mountain dew.
                     
                     
                        And better ne'er drank than the pure poteen,
                        Any king on a throne who has sat;
                        And though by a ganger it never was seen,
                        Sure it's nothing the worse for that!
                     
                     
                        Give sickly youths and the ladies their wine,
                        And the lordling his l'eau de
                              vie:
                        
                        But those foreign drinks shall ne'er be mine—
                        Still our own poteen for me!
                     
                     
                        The prayer-meeting gentry and old maiden shrews
                        (What saints were the dears in their days!
                        Who maidens remained since they'd naught else to choose)
                        Deplore the disgrace of our ways.
                     
                     
                        Right kindly our sins do those saints
                           reprehend—
                        But a curse on the hypocrite lot:—
                        To be fond of the native and true to a friend
                        Are virtues we've specially got.
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           An dhoul! say, what did our forefathers
                           drink?
                        Was it nectar, or wine of bright sheen?
                        Oh, no! nor it wasn't cold water, I think—
                        'Twas the genuine native poteen!
                     
                     
                        With a rousing draught from a goose-egg shell,
                        How they'd rush to the furious fray,
                        And scatter the Sassenach dogs pell-mell,
                        With a thundering, wild "hurray!"
                     
                     
                        Or, kindly at home, while the piper played,
                        As he sat crowned corner-king,
                        They'd dance with the wife, or sweetheart maid,
                        In the gay and the graceful ring.
                     
                     
                        Then again to the brim your glasses fill,
                        And gratefully toast with delight:
                        May the eye of a peeler ne'er look on the stil
                        That gave us this wee drop to-night!
                     
                  
               
               "Ho, ho! what is that you say about the peelers, my brave fellow?" demanded a
                  gruff voice, and in the same instant a rude hand grasped him by the throat.
               When Jamey had sufficiently recovered from the fright which this sudden seizure
                  caused him, he found himself in the firm grasp of Hill, the policeman, while
                  Constable Fair and two other peelers, with their bayonets screwed on their guns,
                  formed a circle around him lest he should attempt to make his escape.
               "By what or whose authority do you arrest a peaceable subject on the highway, for
                  no offence?" demanded Jamey, undauntedly.
               "Ha, ha! you old hoary-headed rebel, and you are bold enough to question officers
                  of the public peace," chuckled Hill.
               "I am!" returned Jamey, stoutly, "and I insist on receiving an answer. 'Tis a
                  pretty pass we are come to, if a man's liberty is at the mercy of every
                  pig-pelting policeman, who was carried about the country on God knows what
                  beggar-woman's back, till he got a coat, at the expense of the country, on his
                  sun-burned back!"
               There is no time people are so much angered by remarks of this kind as when they
                  are true. Whether such was the case with Hill, or not, we can't say; but, anyhow,
                  purple with rage and blind with fury, he flung Jamey to the ground, and gave him
                  three or four savage kicks with his big, heavy-nailed boot. He might have killed
                  him in his brutal frenzy, were it not that one of the other two policemen, who was
                  a stout, vigorous young fellow, here stepped forward, and, grappling the incensed
                  monster by the throat, choked him till he turned blue and black in the face and
                  the bloody foam covered and clotted on his lips.
               The sergeant and the remaining man looked on aghast. They were paralyzed by the
                  wildness—the savageness of the scene. There on the bare mountain road, in that
                  dismal night in November, when the dull gusts of wind and rain swept through the
                  glen and along the bleak sides of the mountains with a sough that was saddening in
                  the extreme, and even there the savage passions of man profaned the sorrowful
                  stillness and solemnity of Nature.
               Jamey MacDaid lay moaning in an agony of pain on the roadside, while the young
                  policeman, whose name was Weir, had his comrade strangled almost to death up
                  against a fence.
               Recovering their self-possession, the sergeant and the other man rushed forward
                  and released Hill's throat from the vise-like grasp, and, as they did so, he fell
                  heavily to the ground and lay as if he were dead. They raised him up and held him
                  on his feet, with his face to the storm. It was a considerable time before they
                  heard a faint gurgling in his throat. They washed the bloody foam from his mouth,
                  and applied water to his temples.
               After some minutes had elapsed he opened his eyes, which were glazed and
                  bloodshot, and heaved a faint sigh of returning vitality.
               
               In the meantime Weir had raised Jamey up, and, applying a flask containing brandy
                  to his lips, heaved over a considerable quantity of the subtle fluid.
               "Weir," cried the constable, in a voice hoarse with rage, "you'll suffer for this!
                  you'll be made an example to the force! you'll—"
               "I despise you and the force," interrupted Weir, bravely; "and I curse myself that
                  I ever wore the livery of slavery, perjury and traitorism to my country. I wish to
                  God I had been transported when I joined your degraded, despised force! I would
                  not then have been compelled, upon oath, to assist in hellish crimes against the
                  poor people, at which my soul revolts. I say to the devil—to hell with you, and
                  every bastard villain like you in the force! There—there!" he exclaimed, flinging
                  his belt and tunic on the road, "keep them till some vagabond is found debased
                  enough to wear them!"
               Here we have an instance of what is a great rarity in Ireland—a true Irish heart
                  beating under a policeman's jacket.
               The gallant constable was stupefied with astonishment at this passionate harangue.
                  He cowered before the force of the language and the threatening demeanor of the
                  speaker.
               The policeman who remained neutral during the wild scene, now exerted himself to
                  pacify the enraged Weir. After a reasonable time he was so much calmed down as to
                  be induced to resume his jacket and belt. The party, with poor Jamey MacDaid as
                  prisoner, moved along the mountain road slowly and silently. Each was too much
                  occupied with his own thoughts to feel the least inclined to conversation.
               They moved in the direction of Phil Friel's, expecting to find Charley at home;
                  and they arrived there in the course of half an hour's walk. They found Charley
                  in, just after returning from Peter Bradley's, and astonished him not a little by
                  declaring him under arrest as the supposed murderer of the shepherd Murray, and
                  showing him the warrant of their authority.
               "Why," inquired the humorous and somewhat eccentric Charley—"do you suppose that I
                  killed the contemptible fellow? If it were for taking the vicious life of the arch
                  villain and beastly blackguard. Adams, there would be some show of reason in the
                  charge. But the idea of me dirtying my hands with the blood of a mean, low-lived
                  sheep-breeding Scotchman!—phew! there is no honor at all in the accusation. I beg
                  to be excused tonight. Sergeant, as I have walked a good deal during the day, and
                  don't feel like taking any exercise just now. I'll be here for you in the
                  morning," concluded Charley, as he composed himself snugly in the corner.
               "We want no light talk of that sort, sir," said the Sergeant, sharply. "If you
                  don't get up and come with us quietly, we will be compelled to use force. We did
                  not come here to be trifled with, sir."
               "Vi et armis, then you will bring me," said
                  Charley—who had been "at classics," and was expected to be a priest by his fond
                  friends: but the wayward youth's fatal, but, we must confess, natural weakness,
                  for admiring—ah. adoring!—the many charms of that provoking little imp, Nellie
                  Bradley, defeated all their efforts, and annihilated all their cherished
                     desires—"Vi et armis, you will bring me,
                  unless I choose to quietly surrender myself to your safe keeping. Is that how the
                  matter stands, Sergeant?" he inquired, with a comical leer in his dark passionate
                  eyes.
               "That's exactly how it stands. So just get up and come along quietly. You have
                  said you walked a great deal to-day, and I think you will find that you walked too
                  much, my gay young buck."
               "'Tis very lucky that it is not of much consequence what you think,
                  Sergeant."
               
               "Maybe you'll find it of consequence enough before all is over, my brave
                  tom-tit."
               "Oh! I know if your authority were equal to your evil inclinations, the county
                  would be put to the expense of a rope, and five pounds to the hangman, on my
                  account. But fortunately it isn't, bad as the laws are: and I don't know whether I
                  should congratulate myself or the county on that head."
               "I'll stand no more of your idle talk, sir. Hill, where are them handcuffs."
               "No necessity for them. I assure you, Sergeant," said Charley, rising. "I wouldn't
                  for the world put you to so much trouble. I didn't, or don't mean to do it. By the
                  powers! who is that you have there?" he cried, his eye falling on the
                  mud-bespattered form of the resigned and despondent Master MacDaid, who was
                  standing, previously unobserved, at the door with Weir. "Why, by all that's good
                  and great, how it is that I find you, Master, in such honorable company?"
               Jamey shook his head sadly, but made no other response. Indeed, none other was
                  needed to explain his presence, so significant was the 
                     caputal
                     capital
                   action.
               "So, Sergeant, you have been considerate enough to find me a companion in my free
                  quarters for the night," resumed the irrepressible Charley. "Really, it is a
                  kindness I didn't at all expect, and overwhelms me with gratitude."
               "Come along, and no more of your nonsense, sir," growled the Sergeant, grasping
                  Charley by the shoulder, and shaking him rudely.
               "Hands off till we're better acquainted. Sergeant—which I hope won't be for a long
                  time to come. I'm ready, and at your service now. Good night, mother," he said,
                  softly and affectionately, turning towards the beloved parent who almost adored
                  him, her only child and brave boy, rich in every quality that ennobles man.
               During the conversation recorded, she had remained silent, in a state of
                  trepidation and alarm difficult to be described. But, now that she saw the only
                  child of her bosom, around whom all the concentrated affections of her heart
                  inseparably clung; the being of her prayerful, incessant solicitude: the pride of
                  her soul, and the promise of her hopes, surrendering himself into the hands of the
                  armed officers of the law, to be dragged from his home and her heart—but no, he
                     never could be dragged from that—in the clouds of midnight, with
                  the foul, and, as she believed in her soul, false accusation of murder hanging
                  over his head: seeing this, and knowing that every evil and damning influence,
                  possible to command, would be plied against him, her breast found relief from its
                  pent-up feelings and crushing fears in hysterical sobs and impassioned
                  beseechings.
               She flung herself on her knees before Fair, and appealed to him with all the
                  energy of her soul, and all the affecting eloquence that springs spontaneous to
                  the lips of an Irish mother on similar occasions—which, Heaven knows, are but too
                  frequent in Ireland—not to take away the child of her heart, her cushla ma chree, her brave, noble-natured boy, who was
                  as innocent of ever injuring man or brute as the child unborn. In the frenzy of
                  her brain she forgot that Fair had not the power, and, as she would have
                  recollected in calmer moments, he was not likely to have the inclination either,
                  of complying with her beseechful request.
               "Get up out of that, woman, and don't bother me with your gibberish," the brute
                  exclaimed, putting the butt of his gun to her breast.
               "Stop!" cried Charley, the wild fire blazing in his eyes, "or, by the merciful
                  heavens, I'll stretch you dead on the floor!"
               Fair drew back with a frightened and ghastly look on his brutal countenance.
               
               Phil Friel, the father, who remained standing in silence all this time, with his
                  arms folded on his breast, now, grasping an oaken club that was standing up in the
                  corner, stepped in front of Fair, and threatened, swore to strike him dead if he
                  dared to lay a hand on mother or son.
               Weir gave Jamey MacDaid his walking stick, a good, tough whin one, and whispered
                  him: "Use that as well as you can. This bayonet will do me. If Charley now but
                  gives the nod, we'll quickly do for the three scoundrels."
               But, fortunately for all. Charley rushed between his father and Fair at this
                  juncture, and prevented bloodshed, which otherwise was inevitable.
               "Father! father! what would you do? I implore you think of the consequences of
                  what your rashness would drive you to. I am only arrested on suspicion, and you
                  know they can have no evidence against me. I will be free to-morrow when the
                  inquest is over. I will, mother," he continued, tenderly, turning towards and
                  embracing her—"I'll embrace you again, a free man, to-morrow night. So, cheer up,
                  and don't make me miserable by seeing you so wretched. It would break my heart,
                  mother, it would, it would!" he exclaimed, passionately caressing her.
               "I will, Charley, acushla. I will cheer up, and
                  not make you sorrowful. You have enough, God knows, to make you sad, awohil, beside your mother doing it. Holy Virgin and
                  angels of heaven! guard and protect my poor boy—his troubles and afflictions are
                  early beginning!"
               "Good-night, mother darling!" he said, tearing himself away from her clinging
                  embrace, and kissing her tenderly.
               "Good-night, father. You will be over at the inquest to-morrow, and I'll be home
                  with you."
               The party, Jamey MacDaid and Charley in the middle, moved out into the angry storm
                  and checkered gloom of the night, and went in the direction of the barrack, which
                  was about two miles distant.
               The father and mother remained at the door till the receding forms became
                  invisible, and the tramp of their feet was lost in solemn and oppressive silence,
                  sending heartfelt, tearful prayers after them for the safety of their only and
                  beloved son.
               They then re-entered the house, but not to rest and sleep. They sat by the fire,
                  communing in sorrow and sympathy with each other, till the blazing turf dwindled
                  into embers, the embers smouldered into ashes, and the ashes became cold on the
                  hearth. And when the gray dawn of morn faintly flushed the troubled eastern sky,
                  and slanted over Nature's desolate demesne its pale and sickly light, still they
                  sat and sorrowed and sympathized.
               When the prisoners found themselves securely locked up in the small dark cell,
                  which is attached to every barrack in Ireland, and called the "black-hole," they
                  began to converse together, thus keeping up their spirits and relieving the tedium
                  of the dull, dark hours.
               "'Tis strange, Master, that they have you here for this murder, knowing, as they
                  well do, your peaceable disposition, and how adverse you've always been to the
                  spilling of blood."
               "'Tis strange, Charley," said Jamey sadly; "but, indeed. I don't know what I am
                  here for. It may as well be for attempting to assassinate her majesty the Queen,
                  as anything else, for aught I know."
               "Why, did they not tell you what you were arrested for?"
               "No. I was nearly at home when I met them, and I was humming a song which I was
                  giving the finishing touch to, being then in the poetic vein. Unfortunately, there
                  was mention of the peeler * in the last stanza, and I was
                  just singing it when they came forward. Hill caught me by the throat and declared
                  me under arrest. I resisted, and demanded to know what I was arrested for. To
                  this, the only reply I got, was a fling down and half a dozen kicks that rendered
                  me unconscious for I don't know how long."
               
                  *Another synonyme for policeman.
               
               "Kicked!" cried Charley. "By Heaven! Hill will pay for that when I net out. I have
                  a reasonable number of little items of this sort on my note-book to settle when I
                  get out of this Tartarian hole: and yours won't be forgotten. Master, you may
                  depend."
               "Ah! Charley, my boy, never draw the blood of mortal man. We will all die in a
                  short time if we are left alone. And where is the use of shortening a man's life
                  by a few short years, at the most. Tis often a distracting thought to me why
                  people and nations go to the trouble of making guns and other deadly weapons,
                  seeing that, by the inevitable laws of nature, they can accomplish nothing that
                  will not be in the course of a span of time. There is one virtue which mankind
                  sadly want, and have wanted since the days of Adam—it is Patience. If men had
                  patience the world would be a paradise."
               "I fear, Master, your doctrine is far from being sound and in unison with
                  experience. In my opinion, if men had the patience you speak of, the world would
                  be a hell. Then every despot, who had authority in his strength, would crush all
                  beneath him, without mercy or remorse. Kings would tyrannize over and grind their
                  subjects into the most abject helots, but for fear patience would revolt and an
                  awful retribution follow. Landlords would be a thousand times worse than we have
                  them here in this happy little Isle of popery, poetry, and poverty, but for the
                  dread that paralyzes them like a nightmare, and stays their arm. They would gladly
                  place the foot on the head of the reptile, but that they fear its sting. The
                  omnipotent God has not one millioneth part the power over them that the lowliest
                  serf on their estate has—they fear their slave, while they scoff at their Maker!
                  One of the "virtues" which leaves our country to-day as it is, is Patience. What
                  has given liberty to every country that enjoys it? The want of
                  patience. What is the only thing that will ensure prosperity to a people? The want
                  of patience under despotic monopoly in trade and landlord oppression. Why, it is a
                  crime against God and man to have any patience at all!" was Charley's conclusion,
                  and he struck the cell door with his clenched fist to emphasize it.
               "Charley, you are young in the world, my boy, and you should curb your fiery
                  temper. When you are as old as I am. you will have learned that the quietest way
                  to get through life is the best."
               "Pshaw! what of you." said the hot-brained youth, unable to curb his contempt at
                  the comparison, in the mood he then was in. Instantly, feeling deeply ashamed of
                  himself, he hurried to say: "I crave your pardon, Master. You know I wouldn't say
                  one word to offend you for the world. I am too hot-headed: and I must cool this
                  rebellious temper down or I'm sure I'll get badly through life," and Charley
                  thought he made a great concession to what he regarded as the antique notions of
                  Jamey—one of his numerous idiosyncracies of thought.
               "I know you didn't, Charley," said Jamey, benignly; "but this is another proof
                  that you should diligently school your fiery spirit and impatient temper in order
                  to get safely through life. I am. Charley, as you have observed, a man of peace
                  and letters. I have ever lived at peace and good-will with all men. I've taught
                  the young idea how to shoot, as the poet saith, for over twenty-five years. I
                  eared little for remuneration. The boys always helped me to till my few acres of
                  ground, and on these I raised crop sufficient to support me for the year. The sale of a heifer, or half a dozen of
                  sheep, procured me the price of a suit of clothes, and kept me in pocket-money. I
                  had no person but myself, and I always had enough for my wants, which were but
                  few, and easily satisfied. Thus have I lived, Charley, and thus I had hoped to
                  die—naturally, and at peace with all men. But it appears Fate had decreed
                  otherwise, for here I am a prisoner—for what crime I know not—and I may be doomed
                  to meet a violent death at the polluted hands of the common hangman for some crime
                  which I may be equally ignorant of. Ah, Fate, thou art a fickle goddess! and who
                  can penetrate the mysterious depths of the future with mortal eye?" and, as he
                  said this, he let himself drop down in a corner of the dark cell, and sobbed like
                  a child.
               Charley said everything he could think of to rouse him from this lethargy of
                  spirit, and excite hope and cheerfulness in his despondent breast.
               After a time he got him cheered into comparatively good spirits again.
               "I believe, Master," said Charley, resuming the conversation, "that you never
                  struck a man in your life but one?"
               "Yes, Charley, just one; and that was in self-defence."
               "Were you not thinking of getting married then, Master?" pursued Charley, trying
                  to rouse him up still more by the mention of that magic word
                  marriage, which pleases and inspirits all.
               "I was: and as we are under the necessity of passing the night here as pleasantly
                  as we can. I will tell you the whole tale: not but I know you have heard it
                  before, for everyone knows all about my adventure, the only one of my life till
                  the one I am passing through now. I was just twenty-two years and three days when
                  what I am going to tell you took place:
               "I was at the fair of Letterkenny, and, as the fire of youth was not yet cooled
                  down by the philosophical training of maturer years. I indulged, to a certain
                  extant, freely in the intoxicating bowl. Like my brother poet. Bobby Burns. 'I was
                  na' fu', but just had plenty.' At that time, Charley, your mother was the finest
                  girl in the parish, and it was no wonder she decoyed my youthful fancy, for poets
                  are the most amorous of mortals in their youth. In short, Charley, I loved your
                  mother, and hoped—ah, when I look back on it now, how I did hope!—to
                  make her my bride. Before I left the town I got two bottles of the best malt to be
                  had, and, sticking one in each sidepocket of my coat, crushed down through the
                  crowd with the intention of proceeding home, and calling, on the way, to see your
                  mother. It was my firm resolve that I should ask her that night from the old
                  people, and I brought the whiskey with me to have a drop over the head of it, as
                  was, and is yet, I believe, the custom on such important occasions.
               "In due time, I reached your mother's, and was kindly received by the old couple,
                  who inquired all about the fair and the rates of market. Your mother, too,
                  received me with manifest tokens of affectionate regard. Whether it was that she
                  loved me for my natural worth, or for my learning. I cannot say. I will honestly
                  confess that it might have been for the latter, as our people have wonderful
                  respect and admiration for all who have learning. But it does not matter now; and
                  suffice it to say that she received me most kindly.
               "I requested your mother to get some hot water, when we had talked at the kitchen
                  fire for half an hour or so, and intimated to the old people that I would like to
                  adjourn to the room for a while, at the same time baring the neck of one of the
                  bottles in my pocket, so that they might see what I meant. They took the hint at
                  once, and we went down to the cosy little room, in which there was a cheerful fire
                  brightly blazing. Your mother soon
                  brought down a jug of hot water, and I produced my bottles, placing them on the
                  table with an air of pride, I must acknowledge.
               "At my request, the old man mixed a glass of punch for the old
                  woman, and then he made his own. I concocted one for your mother to the best of my
                  ability, and then followed suit myself, of course. Your grandfather stood to his
                  feet, and, in a considerable length of speech, proposed my health. I had not much
                  time to respond, for no sooner than he had raised the glass to his lips than he
                  flung its contents straight into my eyes, and became very demonstrative of
                  demeanor.
               "In an angry, threatening tone, he demanded why I came there to insult himself and
                  his daughter? but he would teach me manners, with all the learning I had—and, at
                  the same time, he made a dash across the table at me. I was totally bewildered,
                  which I think was nothing more than natural under the circumstances. Your mother
                  attempted to pacify him, but her well-meant efforts only made him worse. He became
                  furious, and I was compelled to defend myself. It was then that I used physical
                  force against man for the first and only time in my life. Your mother implored me
                  to fly, but I was a little heady at the time, and refused to leave till the old
                  man (who, I began then to think, was insane) would explain his extraordinary and
                  outrageous conduct. Then for the first time I got an inkling of how the matter
                  stood. My cherished bottles were filled with cold water instead of twenty-five
                  over proof malt!
               "I left the house, in what state you can easily imagine. I was crestfallen, and my
                  heart was crushed—I speak metaphorically—into the heels of my boots. I sneaked
                  away like a half-hanged dog, if I may be pardoned for using so vulgar a
                  simile.
               "When I had got a few yards away from the house, your father and Peter Bradley—who
                  were bachelors, then, too—leaped out before me on the road, and congratulated me
                  on the success of my wooing. Your father at the same time produced a bottle and
                  asked me to have a drink. I did not care for it; I found society at that
                  particular moment rather disagreeable. In truth. I longed to hide my head for ever
                  in the gloom of an anchorite's cave, and hold converse and connection no longer
                  with my fellow-men. I expressed myself to that effect, but they insisted I should
                  have a pull. Seeing that I still stoutly resisted, Peter asked me—and he could
                  scarcely speak with laughter—would I not take a taste of my own.
               "All was out now. Your father and Peter observed me getting the spirits, and they
                  concluded that something was up. They procured two bottles exactly the same as
                  those I had and filled them with water, corking them tightly. Before I got through
                  the crowds on the street, they had picked the two I had in my pockets out, and
                  replaced them with the others. To see the joke to the end they followed on at a
                  distance, so as not to be observed, and were lying under the window looking in at
                  the whole scene in the room. They insisted on my returning to the house with them,
                  and making up the fracas. The explanation elicited an ample apology from the old
                  man.
               "Your father was the most favored admirer who was paying court to the young and
                  beautiful Rosa MacGlynn (your mother) at the time, and before we left, he had
                  asked and got her from the old couple.
               "To make the best amends they could for the cruel joke they played upon me, your
                  father made me his best-man, and the wedding was a large and a pleasant one. So,
                  you see." Jamey concluded, attempting one of his poor puns, "if I wasn't the
                  groom, I was the best-man to him there."
               Thus they talked away the night till morning, but never once was the murder referred to! They bad
                  forgotten all about it! Such is the Irish character. Wildly passionate alike in
                  their sorrows and their joys, their troubles and their triumphs, in the short
                  space of an hour they can forget the sufferings or delights of one, in those of
                  the other.
               Charley was charmed with the vein of quiet humor that ran through Jamey's
                  reminiscences, and Jamey felt happy in calling up and recounting the humorous
                  occurences of his early days.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE INQUEST—AN AWFUL THREAT.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           The Judge sat on the bench with all the mimic mien
                           Of sage solemnity; the jury in their box looked grave
                           Beneath the shadow of his countenance severe.
                           The trembling witness gazed with wondrous awe
                           Upon the man, who, sitting like a very god
                           In judgment, decreed, with long and legal face,
                           If that his fellow-man should live or die.
                        
                     
                     From Unfinished Play, by Ulysses S. Grant, Pres., U. S.
                  
               
               THERE was commotion in the glen next morning, and a hurrying to and fro. An extra
                  force of police was drafted in from the neighboring stations.
               Policemen, with their glancing guns slung over their shoulders, and polished and
                  shining belts tightly buckled around their waists, were marching in haste here and
                  there, summoning twelve good men and true to sit in solemn council over the corpse
                  of the murdered man, and discover, if possible, who had committed the deed of
                  blood, against the peace of our Lady, the Queen, her crown and dignity.
               The news of the arrests ran like wildfire over the country, and every peasant felt
                  as if he should be interested in the matter. They all believed that they might as
                  well have been made prisoners for the crime themselves as Charley Friel and Jamey
                  MacDaid, and they regarded their not being as a mere stroke of chance.
               Hence, in Sunday frieze and best hats, they gathered in groups together, and
                  eagerly discussed the particulars of the murder and the probabilities of the
                  prisoners' release. Not a few of the young men, such as Frank Bradley, suggested,
                  and insisted, that Charley and Jamey
                  should be rescued from the clutches of "the murderin' villians" when they were
                  being brought from the barrack to the Lodge, where the inquest was to be held.
               But this imprudent idea met with a determined opposition from the elder and wiser
                  men. To attempt such a thing in broad daylight, when every one who participated in
                  the attempt must unquestionably, be known, and, too, against an armed force of
                  over fifty police, would be rank madness.
               The women, too, were not found wanting on the occasion. Many they were who tripped
                  over the fields to offer kind words of comfort and consolation to Mrs. Friel in
                  her sorrow—we might almost say despair. Nor was Nellie Bradley behindhand. And
                  nothing could be said which would calm and console the poor mother. unless it came
                  from the soft sweet lips of Nellie. She regarded her as Charley's affianced bride,
                  who would have been her own future daughter, but for this severe stroke of evil
                  fortune. She looked on Charley as doomed—lost alike to both—and thus she felt
                  there was a chain of instinctive sympathy binding them together in one common
                  sorrow.
               The Rev. Mr. MacGee had heard of the arrests, and after a long and anxious talk
                  with Father John MacGuire, his curate, both thought it better to be present at the
                  inquest. They believed their very presence would be of service to the prisoners,
                  irrespective of what they could say in their favor, and the testimony they could
                  give with regard to good character.
               John George Adams, the lord and master of Glenveigh, and all living things
                  therein, sat in the comfortable room in which we left him, and luxuriated
                  leisurely over his breakfast. His very cruelty kept him from eating it over with
                  anything like decent haste. And this was why: as he broke the top off an egg, he
                  fancied he was chopping off the head of some tenant; as he sipped his coffee, he
                  fancied he was sucking the heart's blood from the headless body; and as he cut his
                  bread into small mouthfuls, he fancied he was quartering the ten, ant's
                  corpse.
               Adams was lolling over his matutinal meal.
               He rang a small silver handbell, and presently the dashing Dora, "fresh as Venus
                  rising from the sea," all beauty and blushes, or, rather, gin-blossoms, entered
                  the apartment and smiled graciously on her fair Adonis.
               "Tell the boy to have the car at the door at twelve exactly; it is now half past
                  eleven. The Coroner will be at the Lodge at one o'clock, and I want to have a few
                  minutes' private talk with him before he begins. Tell Bob to be ready to go with
                  me. By-the-by, Dora," he continued, glancing up at her for the first time, "you
                  look remarkably well this morning. I believe you are, like the goddesses of old,
                  gifted with a beauty that will never fade, and cannot be destroyed. You are a rare
                  being, Dora," and he patted the cheek which she held down to him with his thick,
                  gouty hand.
               The car was at the door on the minute required, and Adams and his noble son were
                  driven away along the narrow road that ran by the side of the ravine at the base
                  of the mountainrange. In the space of fifteen or twenty minutes they were at the
                  Lodge. They alighted and entered, and the car drove back to return for them in the
                  course of two hours.
               Adams had his private talk, which occupied a good half hour, with the Coroner, who
                  was a medical doctor, and a landlord on a small scale, too.
               What the nature of the confidential conversation was we pretend not to know, nor
                  do we care. Suffice it to say, that whatever that half hour's talk was about, it
                  established a perfect understanding between them, as was made manifest to every
                  one during the progress of the Coroner's inquiry.
               
               Good care was taken that none of the tenants on the Adams estate should act as
                  jurors. The authorities for preserving peace and order, and upholding the majesty
                  of the law, were too clever by far to play into the hands of "the Irish enemy" so
                  simply, stupidly as that.
               The jury was composed of two under-shepherds in the employment of the murdered
                  man, and nine laborers, Scotchmen, belonging to Adams, with the redoubtable Bob as
                  foreman.
               The jury was constituted, and the corpse was examined. There could be no doubt but
                  Murray had been murdered. The question for the jury was to find out, from the
                  evidence which would be given, who the perpetrator or perpetrators, as it runs in
                  legal phrase, was or were, who had committed the awful outrage against the peace
                  of the Queen, her crown and dignity.
               As the quotation with which we have headed this chapter, taken from an unfinished
                  play by President Grant, of which he has given us a peep, and asked our opinion,
                  says: "The judge sat on the bench with all the mimic mein of sage solemnity," but
                  the gallant President hadn't this particular case in his mind's eye when he wrote
                  our quotation, or he would have added that Adams sat beside him and was the
                  actual, while the other was only the nominal, judge.
               Adam Grierson was called, of course. He deposed that he heard Charley Friel, the
                  person here present as a prisoner, swear that he would have Murray's life on many
                  occasions. He also deposed that on the day on which the murder was committed, he
                  saw him near the spot where the corpse was found, at, say, twelve o'clock or
                  thereabouts. He also could swear that he distinctly saw a gun or club in his hand,
                  and he appeared as if anxious to hide it. (Adam said "gun," because the bullets
                  had been found by the doctors who had examined the corpse). Adam himself was going
                  across the mountain then to serve some notices on tenants on the back part of the
                  estate. He was in view of the place where the murder was committed for the greater
                  part of the day, and saw no person in that direction at all but Charley Friel, the
                  prisoner present. He believed the prisoner must have been the murderer.
               There were two other suborned wretches who gave circumstantial evidence
                  confirmatory of Grierson's.
               The clergymen saw that in the face of the evidence given, and considering the
                  attitude Adams assumed, it would be useless to put forward any plea in Charley's
                  behalf.
               Evidence was tendered explanatory of Charley's being on the mountain that day,
                  which was not denied. It was proved that he was only one hour away, and that he
                  did not cross the mountain near the spot where Murray was killed.
               But such testimony could not, would not, be listened to. The witnesses were
                  friends to the prisoner, and not reliable on that account.
               The circumstantial evidence, so strong that it was almost impossible to overthrow
                  it. of three disinterested witnesses, pointed plainly to the prisoner as the
                  guilty party.
               "But," inquired the Coroner, wonderingly, "what evidence have we against this
                  other man?" pointing to the statue-like form of Jamey MacDaid, who had remained
                  standing in the corner of the room, guarded by half-a-dozen bluecoats. His form up
                  to this had been as rigid as a statue, and his face haggard and pale. He looked
                  the image of resignation to some calamitous fate.
               But now when he heard the coroner's query his face flushed, and his heart beat in
                  wild uncertainty. Now, he thought, is the decisive minute. Fate is about to decide
                  whether I shall be thrown to the Furies to be torn to pieces, or be gently borne away in the soft,
                  protecting arms of the Graces.
               "Your worship," said Fair in reply, "we came up to him singing treasonable songs
                  on the road late last night, as we were proceeding to arrest Friel. We thought it
                  well to take him up."
               "But what did you take him here for?"
               "When we arrested him, your worship, we could not let him free without bringing
                  him before a magistrate, and as we knew Mr. Adams would be here we brought him
                  along with the other."
               "So I have nothing to do with him, then," remarked the Coroner, and he seemed
                  greatly relieved by making that discovery.
               "What is that you say he was doing, Fair?" grunted the polished and polite Mr.
                  Adams, Justice of the Peace.
               "He was singing seditious songs, your worship," replied Fair, who always "your
                  worshipped" every one above him in authority.
               "And wasn't he drunk, too?" Adams rather added than asked.
               "He was, your worship."
               "What was the nature of the songs? About landlords?"
               "Yes, your worship. And about the peelers, too, as we are sometimes called by
                  ill-mannered people."
               "This is a serious charge. Do you think we might safely take bail for his
                  appearance at the Petty Sessions, Fair?"
               "I couldn't say, your worship. These sort of fellows aren't to be trusted."
               "I believe," said Father Denis, speaking for the first time, "you may release him
                  till the Petty Sessions day. I have not much money and no property, but I will
                  stake my character, which is dearer to me than the wealth of a thousand worlds,
                  for his appearance to answer whatever charge is brought against him."
               "Mr. MacGee," grunted Adams, who hated as well as feared the old priest, for the
                  opposition which he gave him in behalf of his people, his spiritual children; "Mr.
                  MacGee, you hold your character in high estimation—rather high. I think: however,
                  you can take your friend, here, with you for the present."
               The reader is already aware that Adams was a regular brute, and will not,
                  therefore, think it strange that he should thus meanly insult the simple-hearted,
                  innocent old clergyman.
               "I am sure," retorted Father Denis, who possessed that peculiarly Irish quality, a
                  quick and cutting answer—"I am sure, in your opinion. I think too
                  much of it. I know some men who seem to think character only an encumbrance; they
                  can get on in the world so much better without it."
               Adams leant back in his chair, pale, and unable to speak with rage at this cutting
                  retort, which he did not at all anticipate.
               The old priest walked away, taking Jamey by the arm along with him.
               The jury found a verdict of murder, and added their belief that Charley Friel was
                  the murderer.
               Charley was marched away, handcuffed, and guarded by a force of fully twenty
                  policemen.
               Frank Bradley gave him a significant wink, unobserved, by all save Charley as he
                  was being brought away, and Father MacGuire gave him an encouraging one, too.
               When the police and prisoner were gone, Adams stood to his feet, and, resting his
                  arm on the back of a chair, intimated that he was going to make an important
                  announcement.
               The greater part of those who had been present during the inquest—and they were
                  Adams whole tenants—were outside watching the departure of the prisoner, with whom
                  they sent heartfelt prayers and anxious
                  hopes. But now they all, or as many as could, crushed into the room, and the
                  remainder crowded about the door.
               "This day," began Adams, trying to give his essentially coarse voice a solemn and
                  impressive tone, and vainly affecting an air of dignity—"this day we have had an
                  example of what the headlong, intemperate, and unrestrained passions of man can
                  drive him to. The horrible butchery perpetrated on that mutilated corpse, that
                  sickening, shocking sight, which we have been here to view, as part of our
                  unpleasant duty, is enough to fill every heart, no matter how inhuman its
                  instincts, with horror, and make every man, no matter how brave, shudder at the
                  sight of the monster who could commit such a barbarous and savage deed. And that
                  monster, if it be not the prisoner just led off by the officers of the law, may be
                  in this room at the present moment."—("Very true," thought Bob, who began now to
                  take all the credit of the murder to himself, "here I am, old boy,")—"for I see
                  the most of my tenants are present, and no person outside their ranks has
                  committed or would commit the awful act.
               "And the anxiety displayed by some of them this day to swear everything which they
                  could imagine would tell in favor of the prisoner, shows that they would not
                  scruple to steep their souls in rankest perjury to screen such a monster! This
                  proves that they are all equally demoralized, debased, and brutalized, and
                  absolutely unfit, and should not be allowed, to live in any country where the
                  least traces of Civilization and Christianity remain amid the wreck and ruin
                  wrought by the perverted nature and evil passions of man.
               "Should I allow such savages to find shelter on my estate, I would be worse than
                  they. I could not do it, as my conduct would shock every sentiment of morality,
                  and excite the anathemas of society and civilization against me, throughout the
                  length and breadth of Europe.
               "Hence, I have determined this day to use prompt measures to sweep the wretches
                  from my estate; to scatter them to the four winds of heaven; to level with the
                  earth the dens and huts where they have burrowed; to destroy every vestige of the
                  Godless and abandoned race!
               "In the name of God and of conscience have I spoken, and in their names shall I
                  carry out the good work to completion—the Christian work of condign vengeance for
                  this atrocious butchery'"
               He sat down exhausted. His physical and mental energies were only spasmodical,
                  from the natural consequence of his intemperate indulgences through life, and were
                  soon wasted. Otherwise he might have said much more the in same strain. But he had
                  said enough to assure the poor peasants that their doom was spoken, and spoken
                  beyond recall. They knew that the peal of the Archangel's trumpet to wreck the
                  world was no more certain of doing its execution than his awful threat was of
                  being carried out.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE ESCAPE.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Strong walls do not a prison make,
                           Or iron bars a cage:
                           Let man take courage and he'll break
                           His bonds in every age."
                        
                     
                     OLD POEM.
                  
               
               CHARLEY Friel was marched no farther than Churchill—a miserable little village
                  some four miles from Glenveigh—that evening, on his way to Lifford, where the
                  County jail is situated, and the Assizes are held twice each year.
               There was, and is still, a barrack at Churchill, as there is one wherever there
                  are half-a-dozen houses in Ireland, and in the "black-hole" attached Charley was
                  lodged for the night.
               There was another prisoner there for the night, on his way to Lifford jail also.
                  He was a man of some thirty years, powerful of limb and square and strong of
                  chest. His crime was one that has been common in Donegal, that county which is
                  cursed and damned with the worst class of landlords that ever got leave to live.
                  He had beaten a bailiff and rescued his cattle, which were being distrained and
                  driven for a raise-rent he had refused to pay.
               Charley was glad he had a companion for the night in the wretched solitariness of
                  the dismal cell, and doubly so when he found that the crime of his fellow-jailbird
                  was near akin to the accusation against himself.
               "I hope, my friend," said Charley, cheerily, "that you gave the devil's imp (the
                  bailiff) a good sound trouncing. You should be able to flail half-a-dozen such
                  rascals."
               "I did," replied the half-ragged, big fellow, with a touch of honest pride in his
                  tone. "I gave him a lovin' squeeze that'll remind him of my kindness as long as he
                  lives. But, ah! where was the use of it," he added, sadly; "sure now they will
                  take all when I'm away. And then what'll the poor, helpless wife, with our three
                  little childer dependin' on her for the bit and sup, do when I'm in jail."
               "How long are you to be in." Charley asked, kindly.
               "For two long years. Ah! I was very foolish; but I couldn't bear to see them
                  drivin' away the cattle from the wife and weans—I didn't care for myself. But now
                  see what I've brought on them. God forgive me! Sure I thought it was for the best,
                  and I trust He will pardon me this night. Ah, Sally, Sally!" he cried,
                  apostrophizing his absent wife, "what'll you and the weak, helpless childer do
                  while I'm away from you?"
               "My friend," said Charley, "you know there is One above who never ceases, night or
                  day, to watch over His creatures. To the persecuted and suffering particularly
                  will He vouchsafe protection and assistance. Take courage, my friend. God will be
                  the husband and the father to them while you are absent."
               "He will, He will! It was wrong and sinful of me to speak as I did."
               "And, too, you don't know what fortune might turn up for us. We might both be
                  freemen before twenty-four hours."
               "I fear that would be a foolish hope for us to indulge. It isn't at all likely, or
                  possible."
               "Pshaw! there is nothing impossible. For my part I firmly believe fortune has
                  compounded with fate in my favor, and is determined to triumphantly carry me up
                  the hill of life to the summit of prosperity."
               "It doesn't look like it now."
               "I grant that my present position isn't very encouraging, but rather calculated to
                  dissipate my presentiment, as I might
                  call it. However, this is only the darkness before the dawn of my bright career.
                  And even though my glorious dreams should be shattered on the rocks of reality,
                  and my prophetic instincts prove illusory, why, even then, will I be the gainer,
                  for I'll have cheated fate out of many hours of blissful hope.
               "Nor, should my frail bark of life be tossed on a tempestuous sea of troubles,
                  borne along by the winds of adversity, with the murky clouds of misfortune
                  lowering above my head, would I meekly bow my spirit in worship of the demon of
                  despair? No! I would bravely tread the deck, and, with the more than mortal Byron,
                  sing out— 
                     'Here's a heart for any fate!'
                   Such should it ever be with true men: and such would it be with me," and he
                  gave his companion a slap on the shoulder as he concluded.
               "Ah! you are young and full of bright hope," sadly responded the great, strong
                  man, whose spirit was too much crushed to partake of Charley's enthusiasm; "and
                  though I am myself young in years. I have endured an age of suffering and misery,
                  brought on me by poverty and persecution. I was married when I was only eighteen,
                  and my wife was just two months younger. I had a snug bit of land; and, with the
                  assistance of God. I expected to be able to support us, and keep up the old
                  decency of the family. But there came a couple of seasons of bad crops, and we
                  were reduced to poverty. Lord Leitrim, the landlord, doubled the rents on us, too.
                  I wasn't able to pay it, and he drove the cattle for it. We hadn't a drop of milk
                  for the poor 
                     childre
                     children
                  —we had two, then. We didn't care for ourselves; but they were dry, the
                  creatures!
               "The loss of the cattle left us without any means of making any money, too. It was
                  by the butter that we used to pay the rent, and buy ourselves some duds of
                  clothes. Now we had no means in the world to do either.
               "From that time stark poverty stared at us from the door of our little hut.
               "I went to work for a neighbor at a shilling a day to support us, and the wife
                  would shut the door, and, bringing the childer with her to the fields, would try
                  to raise some little crop.
               "We got along that way for two years, and we soon expected to be middling well off
                  again, for we had bought a cow out of my earnings, and some sheep.
               "One evening—it was Saturday—after I came home from my work. I went out to cut
                  some sods to make a fire for us on Sunday, and the bailiff saw me. I was summoned
                  to the Petty Sessions, and sent six months to jail for destroying the property, as
                  the magistrates said: although it was in a moss field that I intended to break up
                  in spring that I cut them.
               "When I got out we were in greater 
                     povery
                     poverty
                   than ever we were before, bad as we were. And the wife's health, too,
                  had broken down. The neighbors, of course, gave us all the little help they could,
                  but it was of no use—we never got over it. The cattle that they took from us now
                  was two heifers and a cow that my father-in-law brought us last week."
               "By heaven!" cried Charley, after listening to this sad tale. "I don't know what
                  sort of people we are. The laws are all made against us, for the special purpose
                  of destroying and grinding us off the face of the earth, and we will make no laws
                  for ourselves. No: like that stupid fool of an old schoolmaster last night, every
                  one who should know better is preaching 'Patience, patience,' till my very soul is
                  sick of it. To the devil and damnation with their patience! I can't stand it, and
                  I won't!"
               He paced up and down the cell rapidly, and felt sorely tempted to knock down the
                  big man, who gathered himself self into a
                  corner out of the way for fear of the enraged Charley.
               "But why, my friend," he asked, stopping suddenly, and looking angrily at the
                  gathered up figure in the corner. "But why did you dirty your hands on the beastly
                  carcass of a bailiff? Why did you not look out for the arch villain, himself? You
                  could have got many opportunities for giving him his badge and charter as one of
                  the devil's fire-brigade, for I believe he rides about the country on an open
                  side-car."
               "He does. And one time I was thinking of doin' what you say. I went to the Priest
                  to ask his advice about it, and he was going to murder me. He chased me more than
                  a mile with a big stick, and I had to fly for my life."
               "It would have been a charity and a benefit to the country if he had murdered you!
                  Were you mad, or why did you go to ask him about it?"
               "You know I couldn't do anything that the Church wouldn't sanction, and I was
                  doubtful about that."
               "Doubtful about the devil, man! Didn't you know that the Church couldn't sanction
                  murder in any case. But when murder is done in self-defence, as in your case, then
                  the Church is bound to forgive it. Your life, and the lives of your wife and
                  family were at the mercy of the landlord, who showed his determination to starve
                  and grind you to death. If you took his life, it would be only in defence of five
                  lives, your own, your wife's, and your three children's lives, and such would be
                  justifiable by every law, human and divine. Didn't you know that?"
               "No, I did not. If I had, I might have done it."
               "I don't see," said Charley, musingly, "why the Priest should be so careful of
                  Leitrim's life. Did be not evict a tenant for giving the same Priest lodgings for
                  a few nights after he came to the parish?"
               "He did."
               "Sure he won't allow a chapel or a schoolhouse on all his extensive estates?"
               "He will not. He tumbled a little shed we had where the Priest used to say Mass
                  every other Sunday." *
               
               
                  *These are facts. Lord Leitrim will not allow a
                     chapel or schoolhouse on all his extensive estates in Donegal. He evicted a
                     tenant for giving the Priest lodgings, and he tumbled a scalen, or shed, where
                     the Sacrifice of the Mass was offered up every alternate Sunday.
               
               "And yet this very priest would expose his own life to protect that of Leitrim!
                  And all the thanks they get is to be called exciters of sedition and assassination
                  by the brutal landlord and government press of the country. I recollect the
                     London Times, a few years ago, calling Dr. MacHale's expressions
                  of regret for the wholesale depopulation of his diocese, the 'savage growl of the
                  lion over the departure of the monsters of midnight assassination and robbery!'
                  'Tis serving them right, I say. If they would leave the people alone, and cease
                  preaching their cuckoo-cry of patience, patience, we would have another sort of
                  country."
               "I hear a noise, and some persons speaking outside this hole of a window,"
                  interrupted the big man, timidly.
               "Where?—who? By heaven, 'tis Frank Bradley, and Father MacGuire, too! What can
                  they be up to, I wonder? Surely they don't think of releasing me!"
               There was a faint scratching noise, and one of the small panes of glass was
                  quietly lifted out.
               "Charley," said Frank, below his breath, and putting his face to the window-square
                  from which he had noiselessly removed the glass.
               "In the name of heaven, Frank, what do you mean? Escape from here is impossible.
                  The guard who is up for the night is immediately outside in the kitchen. This door
                  opens to it. He opened the door a couple of times at first to see us. He hasn't looked in this hour or more, because he has
                  heard us talking, and knew we were safe."
               "Charley, where is all your courage and cleverness now?" was the only reply Frank
                  made.
               "Here, Frank: but I fear they are not equal to this emergency. However, 'never
                  ventured, never won.' I am prepared for anything."
               "That's like yourself, my brave boy!" whispered Frank, admiringly.
               "But should I get out of this cage, what then? Let us not make the attempt till we
                  mature the plans first."
               "Our plans are perfect, Charley. We have a car below on the road, from
                  Letterkenny. You may trust your life to the driver. He will dash you down to Derry
                  in no time—a fresh horse will be waiting at the Port-bridge when you get that far.
                  He will then only have fifteen miles into Derry, and he'll go that in less than no
                  time. Father MacGuire will give you a note to a friend of his in Derry, who will
                  get you smuggled off to America in a week or so."
               "But the car may have been seen coming out here, and as there seldom comes one to
                  this place, it may have attracted particular attention. I may be traced and
                  discovered in this way," suggested Charley, his heart leaping wildly.
               "No fear of that. We saw that, and took precaution. The car went round by
                  Kilmacrennan and up the back way. No one saw us from the time we left
                  Kilmacrennan; and no one now will be on the road to see till you get to Derry, as
                  the night is fearfully stormy and dark. No one will notice a Letterkenny car
                  coming from Derry to-morrow: there are scores of them running every day."
               "You think there is nothing to fear then?"
               "Nonsense, man! What could there be to fear?"
               "But faith," said Charley, casting his eye on his companion panion, who had again
                  gathered himself up in the corner, "I have a comrade in quod here with me. What of
                  him?"
               "What is he there for?"
               "That's a question! What would he be here for but belaboring a bailiff?"
               "How long is he to be in jail?"
               "Two years."
               "He can go with you, then."
               "Ay," replied Charley, "if he have the heart. I believe that wife of his stole it
                  all from him in their spoony days, and never returned it. The women are awful
                  little thieves—how they do steal men's hearts! Poor Nellie!" he sighed: "but away
                  with Cupid! Mars is the reigning deity! Remember, Frank, the word is, 'War to the
                  knife with every blue-coat who crosses our path!' And now for work. We have lost
                  too much time in talk."
               "Here is a file," said Frank, reaching one in through the hole to him. "Let us
                  set-to to cut these iron bars."
               "I can't help you, I fear."
               "Why?"
               "Because it will take me all the time to make noise enough to drown the grating
                  sound of the file."
               "Can your friend there not do that?"
               "Pshaw! He couldn't make noise enough to annoy an old maid, even if she had the
                  headache."
               "I can help you. Frank," said Father MacGuire, taking the file from his hand.
               "Now you lubberly lump of lumber, you barrow-ful of butcher's offal, if you souse
                  yourself down on me that way again. I'll baste the eyes out of your bullocky head.
                  I will! I'll beat you into a mountain of mummy, you son of an elephant!" shouted
                  and swore Charley, making a furious kick which came on the door and nearly
                  shattered it.
               "What the devil are yous about in there?" growled the guard, startled from a state of semi-sleep. "Are
                  yous goin' to toss the house on our heads, you brutes! It's no wonder yous would
                  murder shepherds and beat bailiffs, when two of you can't agree among yourselves
                  that long."
               "I say, I'll knock the soul and senses out of you!" continued Charley, while his
                  comrade looked at him in stupefied amazement, and began to fear he was locked up
                  with a lunatic. "That is, if you have got any soul or senses in you, you rickle of
                  bones! They were fond of a child that nursed you, you ugly animal of the world!
                  The buttermilk must have been plenty and the bull-calves scarce that season. Any
                  kind of an animal would have been better to rear than you, you bull-headed
                  bosthoon!"
               Charley kept shouting and kicking thus, till the iron bars were cut away and the
                  window-sash removed.
               "All's right. Charley. Stick out your head here, and pull your legs after
                  you."
               "Not so fast. Frank, my friend. Total silence immediately after the noisy ruction
                  I have made would look suspicious. Try and get this big fellow out, while I made a
                  little more noise, and you'll have tough squeezing to haul him through. And who
                  knows but he may yell. "Eh, you beater of bailiffs," he whispered to him; "if you
                  get the chance of escape and a free passage to America, will you manage to drag
                  yourself out through that hole, and not squeal if you find yourself
                  a-crushing?"
               The big man shook himself up, and his eyes gleamed through the darkness of the
                  cell like stars.
               Charley saw he was about to pour out a volume of thanks and gratitude. Putting his
                  hand on his mouth, he whispered. "For God's sake what are you going to do? Don't
                  you know the guard is outside listening? Are you going to destroy all? Don't say a
                  blessed word, but chuck yourself out like a rat going into his hole."
               The big fellow gathered himself into as small a bulk as possible, and thrust his
                  head and one shoulder out. Charley, talking loudly all the time, lifted up his
                  feet and gave him a drive forward. His head and shoulders were now out, but
                  farther he could not get himself. There he was struck, unable alike to get back or
                  forward. Charley again caught him by the legs, and Frank by the shoulders outside.
                  With great pulling and shoving they got him through. The poor fellow suffered like
                  a martyr, and never gave a whimper, with all the crushing he got.
               Charley became quiet gradually, until he lapsed into silence. He strained his ear,
                  but could hear no movements of the guard. He was about making the decisive
                  attempt, when he heard the voice of the guard asking drowsily.
               "Well, are yous quiet in there?"
               "Yes," replied Charley, "this grandson of Fion MacCumbal's has gone to sleep, and
                  I think I'll make him pillow and go my too."
               "Do, and be d—d to yous," was the reply, more pert than polite.
               A few minutes after. Charley could hear the snores of the peeler.
               Now was the time! How wildly his heart beat against his breast—nay, almost leaped
                  up his throat!
               "The die is east! Here's for life in the free lands of America, or a grave amid
                  the ruins of Erin! I'll never be taken alive!"
               And, saying this, he dived clear through the little window, like, and with the
                  ease of, a trout vaulting in a stream.
               He was received by Frank and Father MacGuire, who hurried him down towards the
                  car.
               "I can't leave without seeing my mother and Nellie, and bidding them good-bye," he
                  said, thoughtfully, as they were hurrying down.
               
               Frank was thunderstruck!
               "Why, what madness has come over you, Charley? Don't you know such a course would
                  bring destruction on all our plans and hopes? But you can have the pleasure of
                  bidding Nellie good-bye, as she is down at the car. Indeed it is her you have to
                  thank for your release. It was she laid all the plans."
               "Ah. my brave, noble Nellie!"
               "Hush!" commanded Father MacGuire, "there are some persons coming: but don't be
                  alarmed. Let us lie down."
               Instantly four policemen marched past!
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               OFF AND AWAY!
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Such was our fallen father's fate,—
                           Yet better than mine own;
                           He shared his exile with his mate—
                           I'm banished forth alone."
                        
                     
                     OLD SONG.
                  
               
               IT was a moment of awful suspense; but it soon was over.
               The policemen were from Kilmacrennan, and had been up at the inquest. They had
                  stopped with their brothers in arms in the glen for a jollification, and hence
                  their late return.
               After passing the little party cuddled up in the ditch-side, they struck off on
                  another road, and thus escaped seeing the car.
               "This," said Father MacGuire, as they got up and moved on, "should teach you the
                  great necessity of unceasing precaution and watchfulness. Charley, till you leave
                  'the fair hills of holy Ireland' far behind you."
               "That's just the thought that struck myself, Father MacGuire. I will profit by the
                  fright. And I think it is an omen of success. But here comes my glorious Nellie,
                  just like a fairy tripping over the greensward by moonlight! How can I leave her,
                  for I know she loves me devotedly, although she has ever been coy and capricious
                  with me—the provoking little puss! I am a wretch to think of leaving her behind,
                  to waste away her dear little heart in sorrow and loneliness after me." This he
                  soliloquized to himself, and continued: "I can't think of doing such a cruel act,
                  and I won't, no matter what Frank, or Father MacGuire either, says to the
                  contrary."
               
               "Come, Charley; don't sit down there. Come quickly, and get on. Every moment is
                  precious, you know."
               "I know it is, Frank: but I'm not going unless Nellie goes."
               "Heavenly Father!" cried Frank, "what do you mean, Charley?"
               "I mean I'll not go unless Nellie comes with me."
               "Holy fortune!" cried Frank, almost distracted, "who ever saw such a boy! Here we
                  are after all our trouble, and all the risk we run, having him safely out of their
                  clutches, and a car waiting to whirl him away, and now he won't go unless he has a
                  foolish young thing like himself with him: just as if he hadn't enough to do to
                  mind himself."
               "Trust me, Frank: I'll be able to mind her, too."
               "Charley! will you set me distracted? Do you forget how, and in what manner, you
                  are leaving the country? I tell you. Charley, you can't think of bringing her with
                  you. It would be madness!"
               "Then I tell you, Frank. I won't go."
               "Great God. Charley! is this how you are going to treat us now? What has come over
                  you at all? Get on the car like a good boy. Do. Charley, dear."
               "I don't think I'll go in any case. Frank."
               "'Tis useless to speak to you," gasped Frank, his heart sinking in his breast with
                  despair: "you are determined to ruin yourself and us too."
               "No, I am not. Frank. But I don't see that there is much use in going to America
                  when I must come straight back again."
               "Straight back again!" echoed Frank, in amazement.
               "Yes." pursued Charley, imperturbably. "straight back again, and that even if
                  Nellie were with me."
               "Even if Nellie were with you?"
               "Yes. I believe my mission on earth is to shoot Adams, Leitrim, and all the
                  hell-spawned landlords in Donegal. Some other one may have the honor and credit of
                  nabbing some of them while I am away, and so I'll not have fulfilled my duty, and
                  I'll have lost the honor. You see, Frank. I can't go under the circumstances."
               "I see," said Frank. "that you are an outrageous madman."
               "A dangerous one, you mean. Frank, dear."
               "Both of them. But, here are Nellie and Father MacGuire coming up. I'll leave you
                  in their hands, for I can make nothing of you."
               "Charley, darling," cried Nellie, eagerly, her cheeks glowing and her eyes
                  sparkling with excitement, "what is keeping you? We walked down the hill with the
                  car, thinking you were after us. We waited a good while below for you, and now
                  here we find you setting on the fence as if you were intending to go no
                  farther."
               "Nellie, I am doubtful whether I'll go or not: but if you come with me. I'll
                  go."
               "I go with you! Charley, dear, have you lost your senses?"
               "I don't think I have. Nellie. Surely you would not think me demented because I
                  like to have you with me! Do you think so little of yourself, Nellie, as to
                  believe no man would take you with him unless he had lost his senses? Pshaw! for
                  shame, Nellie!"
               "Charley," said Father MacGuire, in a solemn and impressive voice, "this is no
                  time for trifling. You have been a good boy since I came to the parish, and a
                  dutiful one. I command you now, as your priest, to rise up and get to the car as
                  quick as possible. The driver knows where to stop at in Derry. Here is a letter
                  you will give to the person whose name it bears, and to no other. And here is a
                  purse that will bear the expenses of yourself and this other man to America. You
                  need no more directions. Your fate is now in your own hands, for good or
                  evil."
               
               "Yes," said Charley, rising, "a man is sometimes master of his fate, and I am now.
                  Don't fear for me, Father MacGuire, I'll make out safely across the ocean. 'Tis
                  hard, after all," he continued, as they walked briskly down the hill, "to leave my
                  own country, that needs me so much, to toil in a strange one. And I didn't see my
                  mother or father, either, to bid them good-bye. Nellie, won't you go and spend
                  to-morrow with them for my sake?"
               "I will, Charley dear, do anything for you," and the tears stood in her thrilling
                  eyes.
               "God bless you, my own dear Nellie," he cried, and embraced her passionately.
               "Frank, I have one request to make; shall you grant it?"
               "Anything in my power, Charley, I promise I will do at your request."
               "Well, then, I want you not to let any one, if you can prevent him, shoot Adams
                  till I come back, or don't do it yourself. I believe I was born to take his life,
                  and I hope to do it.
               "'Tis a hard thing, Father MacGuire, to have to leave the country while there are
                  so many landlords sucking the heart's blood of the people allowed to live. And now
                  I have a request to ask of you, too."
               "What is it, Charley?"
               "Don't preach patience to the people in their intolerable sufferings, and
                  obedience to the cruel and crushing laws any more."
               "You know I never did much of that, Charley."
               "I know you don't do it so much as other priests do; but don't do it at all, and
                  that will be better."
               "It might be worse, Charley. But we'll not argue the point now. Here we are at the
                  car. Get up."
               Charley embraced Nellie tenderly, shook hands with Frank and Father MacGuire, and
                  got on. The bailiff-beater was already up.
               With a ringing "Good-bye!" and a wave of his hat, Charley was whirled away at the
                  rate of ten miles an hour.
               They stood and watched after him till sight and sound of the car were lost to eye
                  and ear.
               And many a fervent prayer, many a pious exclamation, they sent after him for his
                  safety out of the Old, and his prosperity in the New World.
               Poor Nellie felt his departure severely, but she bravely suffered on in
                  silence—never made the slightest demonstration of her intense anguish.
               Father MacGuire and Frank talked as they returned slowly into the glen, and to
                  Peter Bradley's, where the priest's horse was left waiting their return.
               But Nellie, walking a little apart, said not one word, nor did they attempt to
                  draw her into conversation. She knew that in silence alone she could preserve her
                  calmness—could restrain the tempest of feelings that surged and seethed in her
                  bosom; and Nellie was too much of a true, noble woman to indulge in a "scene," if
                  she could help it.
               They knew this, too, and thus did they allow her to remain wrapt up in the mantle
                  of her own sad reflections—thus did they allow her troubled spirit to kneel in
                  peace in the sacred temple of her sorrow.
               "Charley is clear—dashing away between here and Derry now, Peter," cried Father
                  MacGuire, as they got to the door.
               "Blessed be God, and His Holy Mother!" Peter exclaimed, prayerfully; "that the
                  poor boy is out of the murdhurous hands of the villains!" Och. Father MacGuire,
                  dear! who can ever repay you for this?"
               "The approbation of my own conscience will amply repay me, Peter I know, as you
                  all know, that Charley was innocent of the murder; and I also knew that no power
                  on earth could save him, if he once entered the gates of Lifford jail. He would never come out a
                  living man. I saw the animus of Adams against
                  him at the inquest to-day. I saw he was fully, fiercely determined to hang him, by
                  every means, fair and foul. This night was the only time he could be saved; this
                  night have we attempted it, and succeeded, for in two hours more, and it is only
                  one o'clock yet, he will be with my friend in Derry, and then there is no
                  fear."
               "I will run over and tell his poor father and mother the brave news. They have
                  heard nothing yet, the sorrow-stricken creatures!" cried Peter, taking down his
                  hat from a peg, where it dangled portentiously.
               "Do," the Priest concurred: "they have not heard anything yet. We didn't tell
                  them, as it would have been cruel to excite their hope while we were not certain
                  of success. Had we told them and then failed in our efforts, it would have added
                  bitter poignancy to their grief."
               What beauty of character, what heavenly considerateness, there was in this!
               But let us follow the fugitives.
               "Well, thou beater of bailiffs!" observed Charley, as they rolled along at a
                  spanking pace, "what do you think of your prospects now? When I told you we might
                  be free before twenty-four hours, you looked like a man who was certain of being
                  hanged in that time. It isn't more than two hours since, and here we are rattling
                  along like the Lord Lieutenant and the Chief Secretary going to a hunt. I told you
                  Dame Fortune was in my favor, and it appears she is going to give you an up-turn
                  on her wheel, too. By the way, I haven't asked you your name yet?"
               "Pat Kennedy, sir."
               "And mine is Charley Friel. I spring from the same stock as Columbkille. Our
                  family is a very old one and was, in times gone by, a great one in gallant all
                  Tyr-Connal. It was always an Abbot belonging to the Friel family who inaugurated
                  The O'Donnell on Doan Rock, at Kilmacrennan, and celebrated the inaugural High
                  Mass in the old abbey near. The Rock stands there still in all its gloomy
                  grandeur, unscathed by storms, and unworn by time. But the abbey—ah! it is a
                  sorrowful heap of ruins, emblematic of our country. As the old ballad has it— 
                     
                        'There was a time when bells were tinkling, clergy preaching peace
                           abroad.
                        Psalms a-singing, music ringing, praises to the mighty God!
                        And beneath the trellised portals there was sure to ever be
                        For the blind, the halt, the leper, alms and hospitality.
                        And upon the seat of welcome, built against the buttress gray,
                        Would the clergy wait and welcome weary travellers on their way.'
                     
                   But that happy time is long since gone. The war-boots of British vandals woke
                  the echoes of its desecrated halls, and the blood of the brothers stained its
                  altar-steps since then. Yes, 
                     
                        'Empty aisle, deserted chancel, tower tottering to its fall,
                        Many a storm since then has beaten on the gray head of its wall!
                        Many a bitter storm and tempest have its rains turned away
                        Since it ceased to be a temple to the Lord of night and day.'
                     
                   But, tempora mutantur, et nos mutamur in
                     illis—'times change, and we change with them.' Pat, my boy. Jamey
                  MacDaid is right in one of his crude sayings: 'The human race and time have two
                  great characteristics—variety and eternity. And in this eternal variety and
                  change, Ireland will soon be lifted again into the invigorating sunshine of
                  freedom and prosperity. It must be!
               "But, Pat, in the name of Hercules, man, what ails you? You seem greatly
                  depressed—most woe-begone."
               "I was thinking of the wife and little one, Mr. Friel."
               
               "Phew! My name's Charley, man. To the deuce with your Mr.! But why should you be
                  depressed now, thinking of them? You know we will soon be in 
                     
                        'The land where manly toil
                        Surely reaps the crop it sows:
                        Glorious woods and teeming soil.
                        Where the broad Missouri flows.'
                     
                   as our own Davis sweetly sings. There are no landlord despots there, my
                  friend."
               "Ay, Charley, that is pleasant to think of. But they'll find it so hard to live
                  without me, and I'll find it so lonely without them."
               "You are only a big goose if you think anything about it. You know you will be
                  able to bring them out to yourself in a year or so. By-the-way, that wife of yours
                  must be a rare creature. It were not all men, at least, who, being so long married
                  as you are, and suffering all the hardships you endured, would retain their early
                  affections so fresh and entire as you do."
               "She was a rare girl, Charley, and the truest, best wife ever God put breath in.
                  All my sufferings were nothing while I had her to assist and sympathize with me.
                  We were rich in our own love and happiness, if we were poor in everything
                  else."
               "And you were partly contended, too, I suppose?"
               "I was almost wholly contented. How could I be otherwise? she was so sweet, and
                  kind, and good, and beautiful."
               "There it is again!" cried Charley, getting into one of his periodical fits of
                  rage, "before God and man. I charge the women of Ireland with being the chief
                  cause of our slavish state! As this fool beside me says, they are so sweet, and so
                  good, and so kind, and so pure, so true, so beautiful, that they enthrall and
                  enervate their husbands in such a state of domestic bliss, that the chains of
                  political slavery press but lightly, if they are felt at all, on their vitals.
                  While the soul is filled and flooded with uxorious bliss, the body forgets the
                  rankling chains that gall it! Would to heaven our Irish women were not so true and
                  noble! They have those angelic virtues which ennoble common women to such an
                  excess that they become vices in them. But here we are at Letterkenny!"
               "Gentlemen," observed the driver, "I believe it would be better for you to get off
                  and walk up the side path. Some of the peelers are likely to be out. There mayn't
                  be any danger, but no matter."
               "Right," Charley agreed. "We should take precaution even where there is no
                  danger."
               And off they leaped and hurried along the side path, keeping close into the sides
                  of the houses.
               Letterkenny consists of one straggling street, about three-quarters of a mile
                  long, and half-a-dozen or so back streets, or alleys. There is a police barrack,
                  of course, at each end of the town, and a glorious plentiness of dandy peelers
                  (the buckles of whose belts are the load-stones of the female hearts there), who
                  strut, like cocks with lofty crests, up and down the dirty and deserted street,
                  with all the proud consciousness of the plenitude of their power. The town boasts
                  the illumination of gas, and a town-clock, the only tokens of the advancement of
                  the age to be seen. The days of its prosperity seem, like those of the generality
                  of Irish country towns, to be buried with the irrevocable past. Commercial life is
                  extinct; trade has fled its boundary lines. Stark poverty and staring policemen
                  usurp the corners and patrol the streets.
               Fifteen minutes' sharp walk brought them to the other end of the town, where they
                  got up again and rolled away.
               At the Port-bridge, a good mile from the town, the fresh horse was waiting. They
                  hitched him to, and in the course of an
                  hour and a half. pulled up at Father MacGuire's friend's, where, on Charley's
                  presenting the note of introduction, they were kindly, nay joyfully received, for
                  that "friend" was as true an Irishman as ever got glorious, and that
                  is saying much. Though, to do him justice, we must say that he is and
                  ever has been strictly temperate.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               ON SEA AND SHORE.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "And so she prayed and fasted, till the sun shone,
                           And the breeze of morn cooled her brow, and I thought
                           she might have risen and floated when I saw her.
                           And when she spoke of him, behold her eyes
                           Beyond my knowing of them, beautiful.
                           Beyond all knowing of them, wonderful,
                           Beautiful in the light of holiness."
                        
                     
                     THE HOLY GRAIL.—Tennyson.
                  
               
               IN the course of a week from their release, joyful as unexpected, from the
                  black-hole of Churchill barrack, Charley and his companion were safely smuggled
                  away, under different names and in clever disguise of dress, on board one of the
                  Glasgow line of emigrant steamers, which call at Moville, at the mouth of Lough
                  Foyle, some twenty miles down from Derry, and were borne away from the land of
                  their birth—persecuted, hunted out of it like wild beasts, by the most monstrous
                  persecution, the most infamous laws, conceived in a spirit of hellish malignancy,
                  and brought forth and executed in that of cruelty and tyranny, that ever disgraced
                  a Christian country.
               As they stood on the quarter-deck and saw 
                     The gray mountains of dark Donegal
                   fade from their sight—wrapt in the rolling haze of the winter evening—their
                  feelings overpowered them, and they sobbed like children. There is nothing in life
                  so overcomes the Irish emigrant, essentially tender and soft-hearted, as the last
                  glimpse of the dear hills and lofty cliffs, hallowed by tradition, of his or her
                     country. Every danger they will
                  fearlessly face; every trouble and trial in life they will encounter with a strong
                  heart, and a firm resolution to conquer or die in the effort. They will face even
                  grim death itself unflinchingly, but the evanishment of their native hills, that
                  they cannot bear!
               We remember, just four months ago, the wild wail, the genuine Irish farewell that
                  burst from the hearts of three hundred Irish emigrants, as the cliffs of Kerry
                  faded, to some for ever, from our sight. And when two sympathetic voices, the
                  writer's and another, cheered from the cabin deck, what an impetus it gave to the
                  multitude's thundering voices on the front decks.' That sight shall never leave
                  our eyes, those sounds shall never cease to echo in our ears. God bless you, and
                  guide your footsteps in the dangerous paths you have to tread in the great land of
                  your adoption, our pure, true and noble countrywomen! And ye, ye hardy sons of
                  toil, may the sun of prosperity never cease to shine on your brows, and may you be
                  a credit to the dear old land from whence you came!
               "Pat." said Charley, sorrowfully, as the two stood together apart, grasping the
                  ropes. "I regret that I consented to leave the old sod. The same prescience which
                  assured me that we would escape from the enemy's dungeon, from which there was no
                  other escape save through the portals of death for me, now tells me that I shall
                  never look on my native land again, or never sun myself in the kind smile of old
                  friends, and bathe my soul in the thrilling glow of love-lit eyes. And then I
                  shall not have fulfilled my mission, either. The landlord leeches shall still be
                  sucking the heart's blood of the people, and stuffing their corrupt carcasses with
                  the garbage gathered from poverty, while the worms are fattening on my bones in a
                  foreign grave."
               "You shouldn't be so down-hearted, Charley. I don't wonder you should be sorrowful
                  leavin' your poor, lone father and mother, who thought so much of you, as you did
                  of them, and leavin' that sweet coleen behind you that I saw you takin so tender a
                  farewell of; but you should not be down-hearted, or look so darkly on the time to
                  come, now that we have got clear. 'Tis myself, Charley, bawn, that should be
                  downcast and not you, leavin' poor Sally, the wife, and the helpless creathurs of
                  childer behind me, with hardly a morsel to eat in the house wid them. But you are
                  young and have the world before you, and aren't distracted wid the thought of dear
                  ones at home famished and starvin' wid hunger."
               "Yes. Pat, my friend, that is one consoling thought. As bad as the people of the
                  Glens are, they can manage to live for another few years in spite of the beast
                  Adams, if he leaves them on the land at all. All, or the greater part of them, had
                  some savings in store when he became their master, and they have, mostly, a little
                  yet."
               It was well for Charley's peace of mind that he had not heard of Adams' awful
                  threat, and, indeed, for his personal safety, also: for, had he heard it, not all
                  the persuasive powers of mankind could induce him to leave the country.
               "Haw! hi says, friends, these ere blasted fellows of this bloody old boat are
                  going to starve us, hi 'spect," vociferated a little man with a prodigious volume
                  of voice, whose dialect and appearance bespoke him an English mechanic, even if no
                  reference to "the wittals" was made, and who bore down, or rather up, from the
                  main deck like a steam-tug, on our friends standing apart from the rest of the
                  passengers. He held a tin saucepan, which he wielded about him like a sceptre, in
                  one hand, and a huge lump of musty and dirty-looking bread in the other. "Hi was
                  as down in that ere blasted houl, and the beggar only gave me this junk of old
                  dough and a pint of beastly stuff he called soup, but I soon souped it into his ere blasted eyes. Hi 'ave been
                  hin Hireland a whole week, seeing ma brother who as works hin Derry, hand hi as
                  has not seen such beastly wittals haven hamong the blasted Hirish. Hi as sent to
                  the hoffice of this ere company before hi hagreed ma paswage, hand got their bill
                  of fare, which hi as 'ave got here in this ere pocket hof ma jacket. Hi as paid
                  them ma money, hand hi 'ave a right to get ma wittals haccording to they's bill of
                  board, hand hi as likes to know why hi shouldn't? Hit happears to me as ve vill
                  'ave to stand for hour rights hon this ere blasted hold boat, hand hi as 'specks
                  we was vise to do hit right himmediate."
               The excited little Englishmen continued thus with all the energy of his vulgar and
                  beastly soul, to harangue Charley and his comrade on the timely enforcement of
                  their right as to good wittals, until he had gathered a considerable crowd around,
                  mostly Dutch and English, with a few Irish to see the fun.
               Charley turned away in disgust and went below, followed by the giant figure of Pat
                  Kennedy, who always now followed him every place he turned like a child, and who,
                  on this occasion, was muttering to himself. "I wish some of these dirty Dutch
                  would only just oblige me by strikin' the boy (Charley) on the face till I would
                  get a chance of showin' the bohil what I could
                  and would do for him, and let him see, besides, how I handled the bailiff—the
                  beast o' perdition!" But no stolid Hollander gave Pat the chance of exercising his
                  muscular powers in his friend Charley's behalf, so he had to husband his energies
                  in that line for some future time and favorable occasion, and, in the meantime,
                  mourn in silence the want of an opportunity to display them.
               "These hare honly mean, blasted Hirish," the eloquent glutton continued, with
                  renewed oratorical force, as the huge figure of Pat Kennedy disappeared below,
                  "who as has lived hon weeds hand dirt, hand has not 'ad the roast beef, hand
                  bread, hand beer, hof han Henglishman, hand who as don't care what blasted stuff
                  they gets. What do you says?" he enquired of a mammoth Dutchman, standing the head
                  over the attentive and admiring crowd.
               The huge Hollander opened his mouth like a gaping earthquake, and bellowed
                  out—"Yah!"
               A burst of laughter succeeded this intelligent answer; and the garrulous Cockney
                  gave a leap over a coil of ropes and a bundle of marline-spikes.
               Another Dutchman, however, stood forward to act as speaker for his 
                     coutrymen
                     countrymen
                  , and said:
               "Vell, du see, me tinks ve should get de vit-als dat de sheep's allows, and ve
                  should 'tand for our vit-als. Me, anyvey, vill do so vid you, for—well, du see—ve
                  should have our vit-als;" and, coming to this sage conclusion, the spunky
                  Hollander retired, puffing, and pulling at his long pipe vigorously.
               "Hi believes hi ham right hin s'posin' we 'ave the Dutch with hus in this 'ere
                  movement," resumed the beef-and-beer Cockney, now recovered from his mortal
                  fright, "hand we wants not the 'elp hof the mean Hirish, who as should 'ave staid
                  hat 'ome, hand starved with the pigs—"
               "Be jabers! I'll starve you, ye dastardly son of a Saxon!" cried an unmistakably
                  Irish voice, from the outside of the crowd, and instantly a coil of rope went
                  flying along, and, striking the bread-and-beer orator fair on the head, sent him
                  heels over head, over the hand-rail of the quarter, and down slap-bang on the
                  main-deck.
               A steward ran forward with a mop-handle in his fist, shouting: "Confound ye! what
                  the devil are ye after, ye lubbers? Clear out of this, or, by Jove! I'll lash
                  every one of ye overboard!" and he laid on with the mop-handle on all sides.
               Soon the decks were cleared—all heaved down below— and the doctor had dressed the wounds of the
                  ill-treated advocate for good rations.
               Verily, advocates for the rights of man do sometimes receive gross usage at the
                  hands of those whom they seek to serve. The hydra-headed multitude is an
                  ungrateful monster!
               We will leave the good vessel careering along on her voyage 
                     "Over the waters of the deep blue sea."
                   and return, in spirit, to the dear girl we left behind us.
               Nellie, after Father MacGuire had left on the night of the release, shut herself
                  up in the silent sanctuary of her own little bed-room, and falling prostrate
                  before a small statue of the Madonna and Child, resting on a corner shelf which
                  served as an Altar, prayed and implored the Holy Mother and her Blessed Son to
                  guide and save the bark that bore her youthful lover over the angry billows of the
                  wintry ocean.
               Her fresh, inspired orison, redolent with the incense of every inherent virtue,
                  issued through her pure lips from the love-lit chambers of her soul. like 
                     "The deep breathings of an ocean's prayer;"
                   while her sweet, sad face was upturned in loving confidence, and her eyes
                  cast imploringly on the statuette of the blessed Mother and the infant
                  Saviour.
               And yet, and yet, when the shadowy hand of dawn drew aside the gloomy curtains
                  from the couch of night. and the early effulgence of a new-born day made radiant
                  the little room, did she kneel and pray.
               "How little did I know my own heart." she sobbed, rising from her knees and
                  burying her face in the pillow of her bed, the faint sunbeams streaming in and
                  dancing on the world of dark-brown hair that clustered round her fair temples, and
                  rolled in luxuriant release adown to her waist.
               No need of borrowed locks had she, cut, perchance, from the head of some fallen
                  female, dying of loathsome diseases in an hospital, or shorn from the head of a
                  murderess, crimson with crime, on her way to the gibbet.
               "How little did I know my own heart," she sobbed, "when he was here, and came to
                  see me every evening; but now when he is gone I feel how dear he is to me. I
                  treated him cruelly. I was cold and indifferent to all his entreaties and
                  attentions, but now—oh, if he were here but one moment till I would get his
                  forgiveness for all my little foolish acts towards him, and tell him by my wars
                  and sobs what my lips would shame to utter."
               She rose, and, like a brave girl, set quietly about the morning household duties,
                  taking considerate care that she woke not her mother till there was a cheerful
                  fire and a warm house.
               Later in the day, when her domestic duties were over till the evening, she went to
                  comply with Charley's parting request. She was received like a daughter, who had
                  been long absent, by Mrs. Friel.
               'Tis with regret we find that time will not permit us to remain with and profit by
                  the conversation of those two sisters in sorrow, and mother and daughter in
                  affection.
               But ruder companionship claims our presence, and wild scenes await on us.
               Murder begins to come fast crowding on our pages, but this time 'tis the engineer
                  hoisted from his own petard.
               Our friend, Constable Fair, falls a victim to his own villanous schemes. Fair was
                  the aim, and fairly was the bullet sped.
               It is altogether a fair murder, this that calls on our attention.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               "THE ENGINEER HOISTED FROM HIS OWN PETARD."
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "And not in vain he listened—hush! what's that?
                           I see—I see—Ah, no!—'tis not—yet 'tis—
                           Ye powers! it is the—the-the—Pooh! the cat!
                           The devil may take that stealthy pace of his,
                           So like a spiritual pit-a-pat.
                           Or tip-toe of an amatory miss.
                           Gliding the first time to a rendezvous.
                           And dreading the chaste echoes of her shoes:"
                        
                     
                     DON JUAN.
                  
               
               CONSTABLE Fair, with his posse of subordinate slaves, had returned from conveying
                  the prisoner to Churchill, leaving him in charge of "the men" there. It was Hill's
                  night to be guard. When the other policemen had retired to bed, the able constable
                  quietly stole down from his room and sought his confidential friend. Hill. He
                  found him stretched at full length on a form by the kitchen fire, and snorting
                  like a porpoise.
               "Hill!" whispered the sergeant, in a sharp but subdued voice, at the same time
                  shaking that dozing monstrosity of nature by the shoulder till he yawned, grunted,
                  and opened his eyes partly.
               "Ay, ay! Constable, all right! I have him here, and by the buck-tooth of my
                  grandmother, but I'll teach the codger not to lead me into a bog-hole again. Look
                  at me, Constable—mud to the eyes! I'm not drunk; we spilled all the whiskey we got
                  in the still-house—only a wee drop. We lay down to rest on the mountain. They
                  stole our guns, fired them off and wakened us. I followed them, but the devil came
                  jumping for them! I fell into a bog-hole. Look at me! mud to the eyes, like a hog
                  coming out of a sink on a hot day!"
               "And a lazy, sleepy hog you are, too. Believe you would lie in a sink-hole on a
                  hot day with a good deal of ease. You would feel like a fish in water."
               "Ay, ay. Constable. We'll get the guns the morrow. We can send them word we'll not
                  heed them more—let them make away at the poteen—if they leave our guns at a
                  certain place. They'll believe us. We'll get them, and the Head" (Head-constable)
                  "will know nothing of it. All right, sir, all right!"
               "All devils!" growled Fair, forgetting his caution with the loss of his
                  patience.
               "Ay, ay. sir—just so. The devil take them, I say, too, for I wish them as well as
                  you do:" and having thus unburthened his mind, he fell to the snorting again with
                  renewed energy.
               Fair, unable to restrain himself any longer, fiercely grasped him by the nose—and
                  a good handful he had—with one hand, and by the ear with the other. He pulled and
                  squeezed these two sensitive members furiously—so furiously that Hill leaped up
                  like a Jack-of-the-box, and bellowed like an enraged bullock. Half sleeping, and
                  wholly enraged by the pain, he rushed on Fair, and tumbled him over the form into
                  the fire, falling on the top of him like any other two hundred and fifty pounds of
                  flesh and bones.
               The position was a warm, but by no means a comfortable one for the gallant Fair.
                  There be lay across the crushed and scattered coals, with no more power to rise
                  than if he were being toasted on the devil's gridiron.
               However he struggled bravely to escape broiling; but every time he put down his
                  hand to assist him in his worthy but fruitless efforts for relief he was forced to
                  quickly draw it back again. His was no bed of roses, though fully as red.
               In accents of despair, he cried, "Hill! are you goin' to roast me? For God's sake
                  let me up!"
               
               Gradually but rapidly wakened from his dozing, drunken slumber. Hill understood
                  the situation at a glance. With all alacrity he relieved his superior officer from
                  the uncomfortableness of his couch of coals.
               A few moments of explanation ensued. Fair was not so angry with his subordinate as
                  he had cause to be. He needed his confidence just then, and could not afford to
                  fall out with him. He also recollected that there were too many dark and damning
                  secrets between them to make angry estrangement safe or desirable.
               After earnest expressions of regret from Hill. and equally earnest assurances of
                  forgiveness and forgetfulness of the mishap from Fair, they were jolly good
                  friends as usual.
               "Hill," began the Sergeant, with a knowing leer in his eye, and a comical
                  expression of countenance. "I am going to experiment a little to-night. Cupid is
                  said to laugh at bolts and bars, but so does cupid-ity. too, and the oftenest of
                  the twain. I think."
               "Very true," remarked Hill. eagerly waiting the denouement of the Sergeant's
                  plot.
               "You recollect," continued Fair, not noticing the interruption. "that Nancy got a
                  letter containing a draft for twenty pounds, from her husband in America last
                  week. She came to me to read the letter for her, and instruct her how to get the
                  money. She got the draft cashed yesterday, and shewed me the stamps this morning.
                  You will also remember that she sold a cow a few days before she got the letter,
                  and got ten pounds for her. She has all this money in an old chest in which she
                  keeps her valuables. Now, she has no need for all this money, and we have. It
                  naturally follows that we should have it, as the coin is made round to go round.
                  It cannot fulfil the use it was made for while it lies in the old chest, therefore
                  it shouldn't. How do you like my reasoning, Hill, is it not sound?"
               "A good sound argument, Constable; but what conclusion does it tend to?"
               "To the conclusion that you and I should have this money, to make it perform the
                  use it was intended for. We should prevent it from rusting in that old box of
                  Nancy's, even for the public good. Our own good is a secondary motive—the primary
                  one being pro bono publico." and he pronounced
                  the last words in a tone of impressive dignity.
               As Artemus Ward would say, "he learned that much Latin from the back of Webster's
                  Dictionary."
               "But how is the good act to be accomplished?" queried Hill, not possessing the
                  penetrative genius of his master in such matters.
               "Quite easily, my friend. I have got an old suit here that will mask me
                  completely. And here is a beautiful little weapon." displaying a revolver to the
                  admiring gaze of Hill. "that will protect me from the dogs, and overcome the
                  worthy Nancy's scruples in allowing me to become her treasurer. Come. help me to
                  don this rig, and see that the disguise is perfect."
               The two scoundrels set to work, and, in a short time, Hill delighted his companion
                  with the assurance that his mother—honest woman—"wouldn't know him if she met him
                  in the stirabout-dish."
               Fully satisfied with this assurance, Fair. telling Hill to watch for his return,
                  went his way on his mission of robbery.
               The very best of a highwayman was spoiled when Fair was made a policeman. He had
                  all the essential qualities for such a character: and they only ran to waste in
                  his stupid, inglorious life as a peeler. No pale-faced fears flitted across his
                  mental vision to alarm him; no silly scruples disturbed the equanimity of his
                  mind, as he briskly paced along towards lone Nancy's secluded mountain cabin.
                  Light of spirits he was, and elated by
                  the certain hope of soon being possessor of Nancy's thirty sovereigns.
               But we have the authority of Robert Burns for the truth of the apothegm—"The best
                  laid schemes o' mice and men gang aft aglee." So did the Sergeant's, as the sequel
                  will show.
               He boldly strode up to the lonely cot, and knocked loudly at the door. Receiving
                  no reply, he beat a rat-tat-tat on it with the butt end of his pistol that almost
                  sent the shaky old defence in through the cabin in shivers.
               Nancy poked her head out from among the blankets and bravely demanded who was
                  there.
               Fair, in a feigned voice, requested admittance.
               "And who may you be who comes to disthurb a lone woman at this onreasonable hour
                  of the night?" questioned she, with a voice like that of a sentinel asking the
                  pass-word.
               "Let me in and then you'll see," replied Fair.
               "Faix, an I'm not just afthur doin' that same. What do I know what sort of body
                  you are? You may be Bob Adams himself—the Lord save us, and keep us from all
                  harm!" and she cut the sign of the cross rapidly through the air, between herself
                  and the door.
               Next to the devil himself, she thought Bob Adams was the most dangerous personage
                  who could make his appearance. Nancy, like the majority of her country-women had a
                  goodly share of personal attractions, which drew the attention of Master Bob to
                  her, and, on one or two occasions lately, caused him to make overtures which were
                  spurned with indignation and disgust. This will account for the idea of the
                  untimely visitor's being Bob suggesting itself to her mind.
               Nancy was married at the age of twenty; and, after five or six years' hard
                  struggle with poverty, the husband and she agreed that it would be better for him
                  to emigrate, which he did. For the couple of years previous to her introduction to
                  the reader she managed to support herself and her two children by her few acres of
                  land, and what she earned at the barrack.
               All the money she got from the absent one she hid securely in a corner at the
                  bottom of a chest, which was always locked. She had no faith in banks: she thought
                  the town gents were too smart for her to have any dealings with them. "They were
                  too sweet to be wholesome," she was wont to observe.
               The treasure in the old chest had accumulated to a considerable sum: and if the
                  honest Fair had got the rifling of it, he would have been very agreeably
                  surprised. His heart would have danced a hornpipe to the tune of the hidden
                  treasure.
               "Open this, or I'll soon clear it out of the road," Fair growled, savagely. The
                  helplessness of the poor woman warranted him, he believed, in disguising his
                  intentions in no way.
               Seeing there was no time for parley, and knowing the intruder meant nothing good,
                  Nancy hurried on her dress and prepared for an emergency.
               In a twinkling the door went crashing in, and after it walked the disguised
                  Constable, in a threatening attitude.
               "Let me have those thirty pounds you have got in that chest," he demanded as soon
                  as he entered.
               "Oh, wirra dear, sure, I've no money. Where
                  would I get thirty pounds?"
               "You have it; and I don't want to talk about it; just hand it here, or if you
                  don't—" He presented a pistol to her breast in explanation of the remainder of the
                  sentence.
               The two children, who had been wakened by the noise at the door, and who had
                  cuddled together in fear, covering their heads with the blankets, now peered out
                  like an Indian reconnoitering an enemy's ambuscade from among the tall prairie grasses. The eldest a
                  brave little fellow of seven years, watched every movement with precocious
                  intelligence. He gathered himself together, to use a homely and expressive phrase,
                  and prepared to make a spring like a young tiger, should an opportunity of his
                  being of any assistance present itself.
               With the pistol at her breast, the poor woman beseeched the robber to spare her
                  life, and she would give him all the money she had.
               "Come, out with it, then. You see there is no use in you refusing. Shove out the
                  stamps. Quick, woman, quick!"
               She unlocked her treasury, and lifted out a bundle of notes, which she handed to
                  the villain, who deliberately began to count them, leaving down his pistol on a
                  table standing near.
               How wildly the eyes of the urchin in the bed danced! How fast his brave little
                  heart beat!
               With a long inspiration of his breath, he noiselessly sprang out of bed, and,
                  lifting the pistol from the table, unobserved, sent the whole round of bullets
                  through the heart of the infamous Fair!
               The shot man rolled on the floor, and groaned in agony, his heart's blood fast
                  gushing out, and life flickering to extinction.
               The poor woman was stupified with horror.
               "Mother!" cried the brave little fellow, in tones of exultation, "didn't I do for
                  him? He came to take the money father sent us from 'Mericy, but I wouldn't let
                  him, mother. Look at him now, the thief! He won't go to rob people any more. See
                  him bleedin', like the bullock they killed down at the Lodge, that time! Won't you
                  tell father how I tricked the thief who came to take away his money, when he comes
                  home? Won't you, mother?" and he caught her by the skirt, and looked pleadingly up
                  into her face.
               "Johnny, dear, what is't you've done?" wailed the distracted mother, looking down
                  on him, half in sorrow and half in pride. "You have spilled the blood of one of
                  God's creatures, no matter how bad he was. And what was the loss of our useless
                  money compared to the takin' of a life, precious in the sight of the Maker, that
                  cannot be restored? Ah, Johnny, Johnny! you have broken my heart!"
               "No, mother, no," sobbed he, crying bitterly to see his mother's distress, "I only
                  wanted to save father's money. I wouldn't break your heart—I wouldn't, mother—I
                  wouldn't." and he became almost choked, so intense was his grief.
               "Will you stay here with Elly. Johnny, till I go to the barrack and tell the
                  police? Your poor mother may be hung for this, and then what'll you do? But why do
                  I talk to a poor child that has no sense?"
               "No, mother, don't go for the p'lice. We can drag him out ourselves and put him in
                  a hole,—no one will know."
               "Oh, no—no—no! God doesn't allow murder to lie. I'll tell all about it: and, if it
                  be God's holy will. they may hang me for it if they like."
               The situation in which poor Nancy found herself was enough to appal the stoutest
                  heart. There in her lonely cabin, two miles from the nearest human habitation,
                  away back on the bleak mountain side, in the gloom of midnight, with her two
                  children clutching by her dress and the dead man lying stiff and stark in his
                  frozen blood on the floor at her feet.
               Drearily moaned the wintry winds outside, and rushed in through the doorway in
                  sudden gusts, lifting the ashes from the hearth, and sending them whirling and
                  eddying through the cabin.
               She took down a cloak that hung on a pin in the side wall, and wrapped it about
                  her.
               
               "Elly, asthore, will you stay here with Johnny
                  till I come back?"
               "Es, mozer. We'll go into bed and cover up our heads, and 'en we'll not see the
                  booky-man."
               With wild haste and whirling brain, she fled over the moor in the direction of the
                  barrack.
               Hill was waiting the Sergeant's return, and wondering what could be keeping him so
                  long.
               He was not a little astonished, when, with haggard look and dress disordered by
                  the storm. Nancy appeared before him.
               She told her tale of horror in broken accents, omitting not the least incident
                  connected with the tragic affair.
               Hill, cautioning her to be quiet and not rouse the other men, prepared to
                  accompany her back.
               He thought it better, after debating the proposition in his mind as they hastened
                  along, to reveal to her who the amateur robber was, and adopt measures to prevent
                  the real circumstances being generally known.
               With this idea in view he addressed his silent companion thus:
               "You are aware. Nancy, that for this murder you are bound to swing from the
                  gibbet—nothing could save you. Now, I am a friend of yours, as you should know. I
                  will get you out of this difficulty if you only have sense enough to let me. All I
                  want you to do is to keep a silent tongue in your head, which. I know, is a hard
                  thing for any woman to do; but when your life is at stake I think you should try.
                  Will you, Nancy?"
               "I will," she moaned; "I'll do anything you tell me; so as any other person will
                  not suffer through my silence."
               "No matter who suffers, you must promise to keep silent. That's what I want you to
                  do, and that you must promise. Think of what would become of your children when
                  you were hung, and the shame you would bring on your husband and friends."
               "I will promise," she faintly faltered, with an agonized heart.
               "That's said like a sensible woman!" cried Hill, exultingly.
               They reached the cabin, and Hill, lifting the stiff form of his Sergeant in his
                  arms, slung it over his shoulder and walked out, telling Nancy to wait up till his
                  return.
               About an hour after he returned. Taking a pail and a large spoon he commenced
                  gathering the clotted blood off the floor.
               "'Tis as clean as a dog could lick a plate," he remarked, looking round on the
                  floor admiringly. Taking the pail under his arm, and walking out, he bade Nancy
                  "Goodnight, and remember."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               IN PRISON.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "The star which rules thy destiny,
                           Was ruled, are earth began, by me;
                           It was a world as fresh and fair
                           As e'er revolved round sun in air;
                           Its course was free and regular—
                           Space bosomed not a lovelier star.
                           The hour arrived—and it became
                           A wandering mass of shapeless flame,
                           A pathless comet, and a curse."
                        
                     
                     Seventh Spirits in "MANFRED."
                  
               
               "'TIS the height of economy to kill two birds with the same stone," observed Hill,
                  as he trudged along with the heart's blood of Fair in the pail under his arm. "I
                  shall preserve the fair name of my friend. Fair—the unfortunate bla'guard!—and, at
                  the same time, have revenge for the choking Master Jamey MacDaid brought upon me
                  last night. Jamey shall march to Lifford jail after his friend Charley, or I'm a
                  fool."
               Hill was not, of course, aware of Charley's escape. Indeed it was only about that
                  same hour and minute that he was being released by Frank Bradley and Father
                  MacGuire.
               "I have a deal to do before morning, yet." continued Hill. "I must go and pay Adam
                  Grierson a visit as quick as possible Adam will. I know, do all he can to assist
                  me in saving the character of our defunct friend, the diseased (deceased) Fair. We
                  must have the learned Jamey arrested before dawn. Heigho! I should have my reward
                  for this disinterested act I am doing for my worthy friend, Mr. Fair, in the land
                  of the Hereafter. Truly I am a minister of charitable Christianity tonight, and
                  that is more than the whole of their reverences are, occasionally. But here I am
                  by the bedside of my master. Ah, old stock. I can't do myself the pleasure of
                  asking you how you feel," he sighed, as he put his too to the side of the corpse
                  and rolled it over.
               He turned the coagulated blood out of the pail, and, scattering it around the
                  corpse, trod it into the mud till they became mingled.
               "Where the corpse of a murdered man is found, blood is generally expected to be
                  there too," he remarked, as he finished that part of his labors. "What a pity I
                  wasn't made a play-actor: I have a splendid genius for tragedy!" and he heaved a
                  sigh of regret.
               "I must now go and pay my respects to Mr. Grierson. He is a very useful member of
                  society, is Adam. We couldn't do without him in any way here. He is a clever
                  fellow, and a credit to the honest woman that reared him. Heigho!"
               "Your plot is a beauty. Mr. Hill." chuckled Grierson, who naturally felt pleasure
                  in any species of deviltry, as they hastened away from the residence of that
                  worthy. "But one thing you seem to have forgotten."
               "What is that?"
               "You should have brought the pistol with you from Nancy's."
               "And didn't I? Leave me alone for minding things, Adam. Here it is, and a beauty
                  it looks. Now, I propose, Adam," he continued, reaching the revolver to his
                  companion, "that you go and hide this in MacDaid's barn—somewhere about the walls
                  where we can easily find it—while I go to the barrack for the Constable's cap and
                  belt. Very lucky, he had his tunic on him inside his disguise. All we want is the
                  belt and cap—you know where the corpse is? It is lying on the roadside at Peter Bradley's lime-kiln. We will
                  meet there; and both, then, can go together to the barrack. Will that do,
                  Adam?"
               "Nicely! You are a clever dog, Hill. No wonder the girls are so fond of you."
               "Ah, Adam, don't touch my heart! But, say, did you hear of that affair of love
                  between myself and Nellie Bradley?"
               "No; you astonish me! Have you really succeeded in breaking in that wild one? I
                  thought that was a feat impossible. Well, Hill. you are a wonderful fellow."
               "You'll soon hear more about it. Adam. In the mean time you may hint it to your
                  acquaintances, if you wish. You know, for my part, I don't care who knows of it.
                  But there is your road, and this is mine. The best of friends must part for a
                  time, so good-bye for the present, Adam."
               "Good-bye, my born beauty, and battering-ram that beats down the barricades of
                  woman's 
                     virture
                     virture
                  ."
               "Ha! ha! ha!" chuckled Hill, and cried after Grierson, "you are eloquent to-night,
                  Adam!"
               "And you are as big a fool as ever you were," soliloquized Adam, as he hurried
                  away in the opposite direction. "A thorough-bred jackass! 'Tis very likely the
                  saucy Nellie Bradley would bill and coo with a big misshapen hulk like you, isn't
                  it? Heaven help you if you only attempted it. You might order your coffin first,
                  and a good cart load of boards it would take to hold your rotten carcass! If that
                  conceited brother of Nellie's got his hands on you. I rather think you would melt
                  between them like butter between two hot irons. Poor Hill! I pity you! And I fear
                  me much that if your soul is as heavy as your body and as stupid as your brain, it
                  will never find its way to Heaven. If you die here, your ghost will remain among
                  the glens, surely, for it won't have sense enough to find its way out of them. And
                  an ugly one it will be—wouldn't like to have to jostle it around a corner. It
                  won't be as silent as the generality of ghosts are, either, if it be as jabbering
                  as yourself, you talking elephant!"
               In a short time he reached his destination, and, having stuck the pistol in a hole
                  in the corner of Jamey MacDaid's barn, which he found unlocked, as such buildings
                  in the rural districts of Donegal commonly are, he retraced his steps and set his
                  face for the lime-kiln.
               He found Hill returned, and mourning, after his own peculiar fashion, over the
                  remains of his dear dead friend.
               "All is square, Adam. Come along. The hour grows late, and business presses."
               "Not at all, my beauty boy. The hour is very early, and we have our lifetime to do
                  our work. Minutes were made for slaves. But let us improve the hour, as we trot
                  along, by arranging the order of procedure, as the sharks of the law say. Little
                  remains now to be done. I know, but let us do that little well. As the angel in
                  the Bible says, trifles done well make perfection, and perfection is no trifle, or
                  something of that sort."
               "Your memory misleads you I fear, friend Adam. I fancy it was Charley Magne
                  (Charlemagne) said it. I saw it in a newspaper, and you know they are always
                  right."
               "Bah! You are as far astray as the man that married his grandmother. It was
                  Michael the Angelo, which is Latin for Michael the Archangel. Wasn't my beloved
                  parent a schoolmaster, and shouldn't I know?"
               " but many a good father reared a bad son, Adam; and many a learned one
                  reared an ignorant son."
               "Do you mean to say I am ignorant? I would give you a tug behind the
                  neck that would cut your throat, if you did," said Adam, menacingly.
               "No offence, Adam. I assure you I didn't mean any," pleaded Hill,
                  apologetically.
               
               "You had better not," growled Adam.
               "Wouldn't we be a nice pair of children to begin and quarrel, now?"
               "I don't care whether we do or not; and I will not take an insult from any man! So
                  just be at it as soon as you wish," cried Grierson, putting himself into a
                  pugilistic attitude, while he chuckled secretly. "I'll frighten him—I'll take off
                  a farce now. 'Tis well to set off the horrors of the tragedy with the humors of
                  the farce."
               "I didn't mane to insult you, Adam. And you know I don't want to right," still
                  pleaded Hill.
               "I know you don't. There is too much cowardice and corruption in your carcass to
                  do anything manly!"
               We will spare the reader the infliction of reading what followed. Let it be enough
                  to say that Adam gained his point—succeeded in angering Hill, and that a
                  rough-and-tumble bear-fight was the result. Hill getting the worst of the battle,
                  and being sadly abused.
               "'Twill do my heart good," thought Adam, as they silently resumed their journey.
                  "giving him that mauling."
               "See here, Hill," he said aloud: "I'm not a proud fellow; I don't keep in spite.
                  And, by the happy soul of our departed friend! but it would be too bad to allow
                  that little spar to be the cause of any dryness between us. Too bad entirely! We
                  have been friends, good, and true, and tried, for a long time; so let us clasp
                  hands like brothers, and the spirit—winged by this time—of our dear friend shall
                  smile down from its new and happy home on our reconciliation."
               Hill grunted a dogged acquiescence to the proposal, and they were a pair of noble
                  brothers as before.
               The scene changes, and the hour is four o'clock in the morning.
               Jamey MacDaid, as was his wont, was up and stirring at that early hour. He usually
                  retired to rest ere night had flapped its raven wings over the land, and shrouded
                  it in nigrescent shadows. If he had to waste the oil in lucubration he preferred
                  doing so in the arms of the infant day than in the cold embraces of the dying one.
                  Like a true son of song he never failed to pipe his matin hymn to the Muses. With
                  sublimely poetic inconsistency, considering his previously proclaimed and
                  well-known principles in this regard, he, drumming with his fingers on the table,
                  hummed the following:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           I MUST HAVE A WIFE.
                           
                              This bachelorhood is so stupid and sere
                              That soon must I end either it or my life;
                              For I feel that I ne'er through a world so drear
                              Could plod my dark way if uncheered by a wife!
                           
                           
                              Oh! life is so sour that it really were bliss
                              Forever to fly from its turmoil and strife—
                              E'en to dwell in the shadow of Hades, I wis,
                              Were better than here, if unbless'd with a wife!
                           
                           
                              All days through the years we must struggle and fight
                              With a world in trouble and treachery rife;
                              And how dismal the home we return to at night,
                              If unlit by the smile of a dear, loving wife!
                           
                           
                              A housekeeper—dowdy, and drunk, perhaps, too,
                              With voice full as harsh as a wind-broken fife—
                              Will shout at your entrance: "Where going, old Blue?"
                              How different the welcome of fond, waiting wife!
                           
                           
                              Or, no fire on the hearth and no food on the board—
                              No tumbler of toddy to cheer and revive—
                              Cold bed and damp blankets small comfort afford:
                              By Socrates' shade! but I must have a wife.
                           
                           
                              Ah, Socrates! that gives a turn to my thoughts—
                              Small happiness he had in his married life;
                              Xantippes fall rarely, howe'er, to men's lots,
                              So here's to thee, Hymen!—I will have a wife!
                           
                           
                              In sooth, all relief, save in two things, has ceased:
                              The fetters of Hymen—the suicide's knife;
                              We're told of two evils to choose still the least;
                              'Tis hard to decide—bat I'll chance on the wife!
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
               "Ha! ha! ha! an so you're going to take unto yourself a wife, Master MacDaid."
                  guffawed a coarse voice at the door. Jamey looked round in wonder, and saw his old
                  acquaintance. Hill, and half-a-dozen other policemen crowding in.
               Expressing astonishment at the untimely visit, he inquired its object.
               "Why." replied Hill, in a tone of malicious delight, "it just occurred to us that
                  we would do you the favor, and ourselves the pleasure, to give you a morning call.
                  We knew you would be up early, as they are said to be so who don't lie down, which
                  we hear you didn't do last night, having weighty work on your hands."
               "Your informant whoever he is, appears to know more of my business than I do
                  myself. Pray, what was this weighty work which you hear I was engaged in last
                  night."
               "Oh, a kindly and a 
                     Christain
                     Christian
                   work—sending a soul from this dark valley of tears to the delicious
                  groves of paradise."
               Jamey was astounded—groaned from the deepest recesses of his soul at this horrible
                  accusation.
               He rose to his feet, trembling in very nerve, and was about to speak when Hill
                  prevented him by hissing in his ear:
               "Have courage, Jamey! You will be honored by a sight that but few see—that is,
                  your own coffin and funeral. You know you have lived all your life between heaven
                  and earth—in the airy regions of poesy—and, on the same principle that as a man
                  lives he dies, so you should die between heaven and earth. I am glad," he
                  continued aloud. "that you take the thing so well, and are going to come with us
                  so quietly. We'll not mind putting the darbies on you, since you are coming with
                  us like a lamb."
               "Ay, like a lamb to the shambles," thought Weir, who was one of the party.
               Jamey was led away without resistance, and soon securely lodged in the black-hole,
                  waiting the inquest on the remains of the Constable.
               Hill having safely placed Jamey in free lodgings, returned with a couple other of
                  "the boys." and, after a short and easy search, found the pistol where Grierson
                  had placed it.
               Everything was fitting nicely—the evidence for conviction was all cut and dry.
                  waiting the coroner's inquiry. The web of villany was successfully woven around
                  the poor master's neck—all it wanted was the usual process of legal tightening to
                  strangle him.
               There was unwonted excitement that morning among the inhabitants of the glens,
                  where the pulse of intelligence usually beat as slow as the dull march of the
                  moments of time to a newly-cribbed prisoner. The news of Charley Friel's escape.
                  Fair's murder, and Jamey MacDaid's arrest, were thrilling items in their journal
                  of gossip.
               Adams soon heard of the murder and arrest, and, as might be expected, was highly
                  delighted. He was not so much gratified at the news of Charley's escape: but he
                  had gained his point, and, consequently, could afford to feel comparatively
                  indifferent.
               The inquest was held that evening. Adam Grierson deposed to hearing six shots (he
                  had made sure of the number of chambers in the pistol, and that they were all
                  loaded when Fair left the barrack) fired in rapid succession, about one o'clock in
                  the night, as he was returning from the fair of Raphoe (where he actually was that
                  day), and that he saw the man falling, and the assassin running off. He followed
                  him, and found the murderer to be Jamey MacLaid, the person in custody, pursuing
                  him into his own house. He then returned to Bradley's limekiln, and discovered the
                  murdered man to be Constable Fair. He next proceeded to the barrack and gave the
                  information.
               
               Hill produced the pistol found in MacDaid's barn, which bore evidence of being
                  lately used; and the bullets extracted from the corpse by the doctor who made the
                  post-mortem examination were found to fit the chambers to a nicety.
               Nothing could save poor Jamey. He was remanded to stand his trial at the next
                  county assizes for the capital crime of wilful murder.
               Good care was taken that he should not slip through their hands as Charley Friel
                  did.
               One prisoner was enough to lose—the executive government of the country would
                  become bankrupt if the second was lost in the same county.
               "The star of my fate seems to be a troubled one," soliloquized Jamey. sadly, after
                  he was locked up for the first night in his cell in Lifford Jail, "and destined to
                  be suddenly overcast and clouded when brightest. Whenever the future is most
                  brilliant and cheering, fate comes with adverse hand and strikes the bitter blow
                  to wring my heart, and drown my spirits and hopes in an ocean of trouble. I fondly
                  flattered myself that I stood on the vestibule of matrimonial bliss, but it has
                  turned out that I was tottering on the threshold or an ignominious grave. The
                  uxorious felicity which I contemplated in honorable marriage gives way to the
                  prison torture antecedent to a death of disgrace. But God's blessed will be done!
                  In a few short years it matters little to a man whether his life was one of bliss
                  or woe, triumph or trouble, so as he has walked in the ways, and under the
                  protection of Him who reigns regnant over all."
               Dark his death was destined to be, but it was not to terminate on the disgraceful
                  gallows.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               AN IRISH LANDLORD'S CHRISTIANITY.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Look on his foul face, his eye's unrest,
                           What thoughts perturbed are aching in his breast!
                           His sable brow is wet and wrung with pain,
                           And his dilated nostrils toil in vein:
                           For short and scant the breath each effort draws,
                           And 'twixt each effort Nature claims a pause,
                           Beyond the loose and sable neckcloth stretched
                           His sinewy throat seems by convulsions twitched,
                           While the tongue falters, as to utterance loth,
                           Sounds of dire import—impious threat and oath."
                        
                     
                     SCOTT.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Consider this—
                           That in the course of justice none of us
                           Should see salvation; we do pray for mercy,
                           And that same prayer doth teach us all to render
                           The deeds of mercy."
                        
                     
                     MERCHANT OF VENICE.
                  
               
               A FEW weeks have passed, during which but little of importance has occurred,
                  though the catastrophe of our story draws near. The excitement incidental to the
                  late murders, arrests and escape has given place to the customary calm which
                  hovered over the glens. No, not to the customary calm, but to one
                  akin to that of death and desolation.
               Notices to quit have been served on all the tenants, and, knowing their landlord's
                  ruthless nature, little hope for mercy at his hands did they entertain. Hence the
                  mournful, brooding silence, undisturbed save by the subdued murmurs of woe for
                  their impending and inevitable doom, that swelled through the glens as sadly as
                  the moan of the midnight gale through the tombs in a graveyard.
               
               Father Denis (as his flock affectionately called him) thought, in the utter 
                     simplicaty
                     simplicity
                   of his heart, that Adams might be dissuaded from his evil intention—his
                  awful determination—of desolating the glens, driving the inhabitants forth, with,
                  worst of all, the brand of Cain upon their brows.
               He had spoken to Father MacGuire, his curate, on the subject, and he more to
                  gratify what he saw was the anxious desire of the simple-hearted, single-minded
                  old clergyman, whom he loved and revered, than with any expectation that their
                  mission would be successful. agreed to accompany him to the Cottage.
               Father Denis was hastily finishing his breakfast, and his curate, a man of
                  powerful frame, broad, bold forehead, deep-set, dark eye, and massive jaw and
                  chin, was standing tapping his boot with his riding-rod, and looking round the
                  plainly-furnished, but comfortable apartment. The bookcase particularly attracted
                  his attention, not, in sooth, for the brilliance of the bindings, for Father Denis
                  had a special objection to rich covers, but on account of an old and extremely
                  rare edition, published some two centuries ago at Reimes, of a theological work in
                  twelve volumes, each page as large as a newspaper. Father Denis, with pardonable
                  pride, often boasted that there was not another copy in the diocese.
               He took great delight in displaying the volumes, bound in substantial calf, the
                  edges as rough and red as a tailor's slipper, before the admiring eyes of the
                  brother-priests who frequently called to see him.
               "I see you have still an eye after that antique of mine. Take care
                  you don't be guilty of the sin of coveteousness," laughed the hale and hearty old
                  priest.
               "Its antiquity is all that makes it attractive, indeed," replied the curate,
                  carelessly. "There are much better theological works than it is."
               "Just so. But after all, every priest in the diocese is looking after it. Even the
                  bishop asked the loan of it at the last conference, but I knew if I gave it I
                  never would get it back. But I am ready now, and we will go."
               They mounted their horses and rode in the direction of the Cottage.
               They had not ridden far when they observed a picturesque individual mounted on a
                  steed that seemed to be afflicted with all the ills that horse-flesh is heir to,
                  jogging along slowly before them. He was humming, whether to himself or to his
                  charger it would be hard to say— 
                     
                        "There's nothing half so sweet in life
                        As love's young dream,"
                     
                   and interpolating the words of Thomas Moore's immortal song with such
                  ejaculations as. "On Brian, my worthy warrior "—" that poor boy will die "—" Fraid
                  my pleading will be useless "—" pulse very weak "—" Fearful weather." and so on.
                     ad infinitum.
               The solitary horseman was the country doctor, and he was going on the same errand
                  as the reverend gentlemen.
               Looking round and observing them he hailed the two clergymen with a "good morning,
                  gentlemen," at the same time taking off his broad-brimmed white hat, and
                  flourishing it above his head with his left hand.
               "Gentlemen." he continued, "pray pardon me for doffing my bonnet with my left
                  hand, which is. I believe, against etiquette; but Mr. Brian Born here has some of
                  his old tricks in his head yet, and it takes my right hand with all its strength
                  to manage him," and the doctor looked as grave and grim as a bronze statue of
                  Abraham Lincoln.
               Neither of the clergymen could refrain from laughing loud and long.
               "I suppose it takes both hands betimes to keep him on his feet, doctor," cried
                  Father Denis.
               
               "Well, no," replied the doctor, with a serious face, and in solemn tones; "Brian
                  very rarely stumbles—not even seven times a day, the number that man is supposed
                  to do, according to St. Paul. Brian is a wonderful old warrior, and still retains
                  his remarkable sagacity, with a good deal of the spirit, dash, and daring of his
                  youth."
               "If there was any gratitude in you for the services he has done, you would give
                  him a rest and time to die, Doctor," said Father MacGuire.
               "No: 'tis a long time now since we made the mutual agreement that nothing but
                  death would us part. It was the morning he saved my life some fifteen years
                  ago."
               "How was that, Doctor?" queried both.
               "It happened," began the Doctor, patting the neck of his steed affectionately,
                  "when I was medical officer of the Dunfanaghy dispensary. There came a man on an
                  urgent sick-call (you get some of those too, gentlemen,) early in the night, but I
                  was from home. When I returned I learned of it. I would have to cross Magherarorty
                  strand, or else ride ten miles round. I knew that the tide would be in when I
                  would get that far, and the creek impassable. Brian and myself being jaded, I
                  determined I would not go round, but let him and I have a rest for two or three
                  hours. I lay down on a sofa and was soon fast asleep. But my sleep soon became a
                  disturbed one. I dreamt, and suddenly started up. I had no way of knowing what
                  time it was, as I never kept a clock in my house, or carried a watch. I always
                  determined the time by general observation, and have never been five minutes in or
                  over, save on the night of which I speak. The clear, mellow moonlight was
                  streaming in through the room when I awoke. My senses were not yet roused. I
                  thought day had dawned. I went hurriedly to the stable, and Brian and I took to
                  the road. He was not long dashing over the road, as he was then in his prime. We
                  soon got to the ford, but found the tide was at the full. To wait would be the
                  loss of an hour and a half, and to go round would be a journey not to be thought
                  of. I grasped the reins tightly and struck the spurs into him. Brian set his ears,
                  snorted, and rushed into the surf like a sea-horse. He swam gallantly and safely
                  till we got to the middle of the estuary, where the waves were rolling in with all
                  their strength from the open Atlantic. With his usual sagacity, he leaned his side
                  against one immense wave that came rolling and foaming in: but when it had passed
                  his equilibrium was lost, and he rolled over on his side in the trough it left
                  behind. I. of course, was pitched off, and sank to the bottom. I could not swim.
                  It was a mile and a half to shore on either side, and the billows were rolling
                  fierce and furious. Death seemed inevitable.
               "I rose to the surface and floundered desperately to keep myself afloat—but in
                  vain! I sank again, and again rose. Coming to the surface a second time I observed
                  Brian, still in the same spot, looking around with eager eye and neighing wildly.
                  He saw me, and, quick as thought, caught me by the collar of the coat, and held
                  me, half dead as I was, clear out of the water down to my waist, till he swam to
                  the other side.
               "There and then we talked together for full half an hour—I in articulate sounds
                  and he by intelligible signs—and promised each other that nothing, mortal or
                  immortal, should part us, save death. Ah, Brian," he apostrophized him, in tones
                  of regret, "you are fast failing. That I can't deny, though I would fainly
                  persuade myself to the contrary."
               "And in what condition did you find the patient, doctor?" Father Denis
                  inquired.
               "Why," replied the doctor, opening his eyes to their utmost extent, and speaking
                  deliberately, "it was an old woman, and she was the only person out of bed in
                     the house when I arrived. She was
                  eating roasted potatoes and butter, sitting in the corner. She remarked on my
                  entrance that I was early afoot, and asked me if I read the newspapers—"
               "Read the newspapers!" echoed both the clergymen.
               "Yes," the doctor assured them, gravely: "and if I heard the Pope was hunted from
                  Rome, and put in prison by wild men."
               "Was your patience provoked, doctor?" Father Denis asked, with a sly look.
                  "Generally you medical men haven't much patience in such cases."
               "Yes. I felt considerably annoyed, but I had patience enough not to vent my anger
                  on her."
               "And, of course, you didn't on any person else?"
               "Strange to say, I did: and in a very peculiar way. I was returning home, and had
                  got to the end of the village when the great Stewart of Ards' carriage came
                  driving along. It appears Stewart observed me, for the carriage was stopped, and,
                  putting his head out of the window, he saluted me very familiarly. He also
                  introduced to me an exceedingly stylish swell, who lounged luxuriously on the
                  velvet cushions inside—the gentleman's name was Hogg. I saw at once, from the
                  character the interview assumed, that it was to show me to his friend as one of
                  the natural curiosities of Donegal, and not through any real respect, that Stewart
                  deigned to notice me.
               "Brian here, too, must have thought so, for he became very restless, and was eager
                  to get away. He appeared altogether angry with the pair of them. Hogg, noticing
                  the prancing of Brian, assured me that he 'wondawed I should aw keep such a spank
                  aw animal as that: some old one, lame and bloind, would suit aw man of my vocation
                  bettaw.' Brian understood the insult thoroughly, and snorted in contempt at the
                  puppy. I replied that the horse was extremely docile, and could be messaged aged
                  by a silk thread; that it was only the strange sight made him restless.
               "'And what—aw—may the strange sight be, doctaw?' he inquired.
               "'Why,' I replied, 'you will acknowledge that it is enough to frighten any horse
                  to see a hog in a carriage.' Brian—he understands every word I
                  say—laughed (for he can laugh most eloquently), shook his head, winked, and bolted
                  away."
               The doctor's gravity relaxed into a smile at this reminiscence. In fact, all three
                  burst into a chorus of cachination.
               "How did Stewart look the next time you saw him?" asked Father MacGuire.
               "I never spoke to him after. At the next meeting of the Board of Guardians, of
                  which he was, and is yet. I believe, chairman, my dismissal was resolved upon. But
                  I deprived him of the pleasure of having me dismissed, by sending in my
                  resignation. This is my way, gentlemen," he continued, pointing with his
                  riding-rod to the little avenue that led to the cottage. "I am going to
                  remonstrate with Adams about the eviction of his tenantry, which he appears
                  determined on."
               "That is just where we are going, and with the same object, too," replied Father
                  Denis. "And I am heartily glad, indeed, to find you with us in the good
                  effort."
               Father MacGuire remained silent, knowing well that all efforts to turn Adams from
                  his awful determination would be useless.
               They dismounted at the door of the Cottage, and pulled the bell, a servant taking
                  their horses round to the stables.
               Dora, fresh and smiling, opened the door, and to their query if Mr. Adams was
                  within, replied in the affirmative.
               Making that gentleman aware of the visitors' desire to see him, she returned and
                  ushered them into the landlord's private apartment.
               
               Adams appeared to be laboring under the natural results of a deep debauch.
               He stood up, clutching the back of his chair nervously, on their entrance, and
                  desired them to be seated.
               "We have come, Mr. Adams," said Father MacGuire, opening the conversation, "to
                  plead with you in behalf of the poor people, your tenants, whom you have served,
                  as we understand, with notices of ejectment. We—"
               "So you have made yourselves the advocates of murderers," interrupted Adams. "As
                  such. I cannot be expected to pay much attention to what you may say, or have much
                  respect for your opinions. Still, proceed; I shall be happy to hear what you have
                  got to say."
               The doctor looked attentively at Adams, and thought to himself:
               "This man is an anomaly of nature. As the poet says— 
                     
                        'Who is this man? By what mistake of Nature
                        Has he thus strayed among mankind?'"
                     
                  
               
               Father Denis looked at Mr. MacGuire in astonishment, but that gentleman did not
                  look the least taken aback; it was just what he anticipated.
               "We did not come here as the advocates of murderers." replied the old
                  priest, considerably spurred by the foul and false epithet applied to his people.
                  "We come here as the advocates of Christian humanity, and, for my part, and I
                  believe I speak for those gentlemen also, I have ever been the suppressor of
                  murder, and every other species of crime. And—"
               "It would be a worthy act. I should think," again interrupted Adams, "to teach the
                  clients, in whose behalf you come, some Christian humanity, before you come to
                  plead for them, in its name. The brutal murder of an inoffensive man displays
                  little humanity, or Christianity either, on their part, I am persuaded."
               "But surely you do not regard all your tenants as equally guilty of what but one
                  or two could have any hand in, even granting that the unfortunate man Murray was
                  really murdered by some of them."
               "That may be: but I am assured they all were aware that the bloody deed was going
                  to be done; for I have learned from reliable sources that my tenants have formed
                  themselves into a secret and sworn combination, with a view to the perpetration of
                  such, and other diabolical outrages. Hence, justice demands that retribution
                  should fall on the heads of the whole of them."
               "I fear, Mr. Adams, you have been deceived with regard to your tenants. Believe
                  me, no such combination as you speak of exists among them. All I will say on the
                  matter is, that those who informed you of such must have had some selfish or
                  malignant motives for doing so. You may rest satisfied that no such society exists
                  now, or ever did exists among your tenantry. It were impossible that it could
                  without my knowing of it, and, my knowing of it, you must be satisfied that it
                  would not have my approval, and without that it could not exist one single
                  day."
               "I am fully aware, sir, that your influence for good or evil over the people is
                  powerful, and I fear that that influence is as often used for the latter as for
                  the former. To such a belief occurrences strongly point. In forty-eight hours'
                  time we have two murders committed, and one of the murderers released from
                  prison—torn from the hands of justice."
               "I am now in the winter of a long life," replied the venerable old priest, with
                  calm dignity: "its snow is on my head, and its frost is in my veins, and never
                  before did mortal man bring such an allegation against me. I may have had
                  enemies—enemies who wished, who were determined to be such—during the course of my
                  life, but even the most bitter of them never conceived, far less expressed, such a
                  charge against me. I care not to
                  repudiate it—every action of my life proves it to be false. According to the
                  course of nature I cannot expect to mix much longer among men, nor do I desire it;
                  and, with earth fading from my sight, and eternity dawning on it, one of my
                  greatest consolations will be, that, while I prevented many a crime from being
                  done, and saved the lives of those who, perhaps, thought hard of me, from the
                  hands of men driven to madness by oppression. I never was the author or instigator
                  of harm to any human being. You may not believe my words; but that matters
                  not."
               Father MacGee only stated the truth when he said he had saved the lives of men who
                  would, like the London Times—"the scarlet whore of the Strand," as
                  that journal has been justly styled—call him a surpliced
                  assassin.
               It was notoriously known that he on two different occasions, saved the life of the
                  Earl of Leitrim, who has been incidentally mentioned in this true tale. But it was
                  not publicly known that he had saved the life of Adams, himself, when he took the
                  mountains from the tenants, and raised the old rents for the remaining patches of
                  land which he left them.
               The doctor saw plainly that reasoning with such a man as Adams was perfectly
                  useless—only a waste of words; hence, with Mr. MacGuire, he remained silent.
               Old Father Denis, whose heart only beat for, and whose every thought was of his
                  poor people, still persisted:
               "I beg, I implore you. Mr. Adams, for your own sake as well as for that of your
                  tenants, to calmly think over what you are going to do. If you persist in carrying
                  out your awful threat, you will regret it afterwards as much as any person."
               "I acknowledge my indebtedness for your kind interest in my future peace of mind,
                  but I cannot listen to your prayer, or adopt your advice. To make an end to this
                  interview, which is disagreeable to me, at least," he continued, growing scarlet
                  with passion, and the muscles of his face twitching convulsively. "I say once for
                  all, that I am fully resolved upon driving the assassins—in heart if not in
                  deed—from off my property. The monsters deserve no mercy, and none shall they get.
                  I would be wanting in my duty to God"—the blasphemous tyrant!—"to civilization, to
                  Christianity, to humanity, to allow them to remain, and remain they shall not.
                  Justice to civilized mankind, and vengeance for heaven and for the murdered,
                  demand their expulsion from my property, and expelled they shall be."
               "But justice and vengeance are never so pleasing in the sight of God as when
                  tempered with mercy," Father Denis interrupted, and it was an exercise of moral
                  courage to do so. "Take care lest the measure of the punishment would exceed that
                  of the crime. As we pray for mercy from the Maker and Master of all, let us give
                  mercy to our fellowmen. Remember what would be our future state if the Creator
                  tempered not His justice and vengeance with mercy; nor is it for you or I to take
                  into our own hands and execute in His name the vengeance that belongs to God
                  alone. The decisions of man are often reversed in heaven, and its vengeance
                  frequently falls on those who attempt to rob the Maker of His right."
               "I care not for the powers of heaven or hell!" cried Adams, fiercely, losing all
                  control of himself, and becoming perfectly demon-like in appearance, his eyes
                  glaring savagely, and every feature of his face working in wild contortions.
                  "Should the land become a howling wilderness, filled with hissing serpents whose
                  every sting was death, and distilling the most poisonous of vapors from every
                  blade of grass and leaf of plant or tree, they shall be swept away—no vestige of
                  them shall remain! Should the lightnings of heaven and the blasts of hell combine to burn, blast, and consume the
                  soil, turn the rocks into cinders, melt the mountains into streams of molten lava,
                  my resolve shall be carried out—my vengeance shall have its way, and they shall be
                  its victims!"
               Both priests and the doctor looked on appalled. There was an evil fascination in
                  the man, as there is said to be in Lucifer himself, that kept their eyes fixed
                  upon him beyond their power of removing them.
               Hearing the excited talk. Bob and Dora rushed into the room. The fascination was
                  broken. The three gentlemen hastily took their hats and left.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE EVICTIONS—THE WAKE ON THE MOOR.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "But what avails her unexhausted stores,
                           Her blooming mountains, and her sunny shores,
                           With all the gifts that heaven and earth impart,
                           The smiles of nature and the charms of art.
                           While proud Oppression in her valleys reigns,
                           And tyranny usurps her plenteous plains?"
                        
                     
                     ADDISON.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        Say, will the roar of brutes ascend
                        In sweeter strains to heaven above,
                        With angels' songs more sweetly blend
                        Than fervent prayers from hearts of love?
                     
                  
               
               SUCH is the thought that occurs to us as, with sad heart, we sit down to write
                  this chapter of evictions. Adams sought,—and succeeded among a certain class in
                  Ireland, who are only too eager to believe anything against the people and in
                  favor of the landlords,—to make it appear that the wholesale ejectment of his
                  tenantry was only the exercise of a just vengeance, which heaven, by right of his
                  authority, tacitly appointed him the executor of; forgetting that Heaven reserves
                  that right to itself, solely; that He alone can mete out the just measure of man's
                  punishment; that the earth was made for the habitation of man and that those who
                  turned it into the exclusive abode of brutes opposed the designs of an all-wise
                  Providence. But falsehood is ever inconsistent.
               Those who cared to scrutinize the representation of his reasons for evicting his
                  tenants, saw plainly that his motives were other than those proclaimed. Still, he
                     had his admirers and applauders—the
                  blind, brutal, unthinking class referred to above.
               A bitter morning in March. Away over the ocean in dear old Ireland, and far north
                  among the gloomy glens of Donegal.
               Yes, a bitter morning it was—bitter in every sense of the word. It seemed the
                  sullen anger of the spiteful elements had conspired with the tyranny of man to
                  make the day doubly dark and bitter to the poor peasants of Glenveigh, and the
                  converging valleys. Or, to use, perhaps, a more correct figure, the dark, leaden
                  sky seemed shrouded in impenetrable gloom, so that the souls of the blessed in
                  heaven might not be wrung with anguish at the sight of the wrong and misery which
                  man was that day to work; and the cold, chilling blast, laden with drifting rain,
                  seemed the breath of an angry yet sorrowful and patient God.
               A long line of policemen, comprising fully five hundred, armed like a regiment
                  marching to battle, moved along the soft, plashy road that leads from Letterkenny
                  to the glens. Some half-dozen constabulary officers were at their head, and the
                  Sheriff rode in a covered car in the rear.
               They were met at the entrance of the glens by Adams, with another (the local)
                  force of police, and a crowbar-brigade of, at least, one hundred men, whom he had
                  brought over from the dockyards of Glasgow, as he could get no men in Donegal, or,
                  we venture to say, in all Ireland, had he searched it, to do his inhuman
                  behests.
               The crowbar-brigade was commanded by Adam Grierson, who felt proud of the
                  appointment, and who, that day, 
                     
                        "Did such infernal deeds before high heaven
                        As made the angels weep."
                     
                  
               
               The first house they arrived at was that of an aged widow named McFaddin. Her only
                  family was three daughters, and, though they could not be supposed to
                  have anything to do with the murder, they were included in the common doom.
               As soon as the armed force of police came in view, the poor widow and her
                  daughters were standing outside their cabin, giving vent to their anguish, their
                  despair, in loud wailings and lamentations in their native tongue. In appeals,
                  painful and heart-rending in their passionate intensity, they implored Adams to
                  spare them. But his only reply was a command to Grierson to have their things
                  flung out, and the house dashed to the ground—no stone to be left on the top of
                  another.
               The command was soon executed, and then the wreckers, frenzied, mad with drink
                  which had been given them at the Cottage, till they left it, turned to the
                  out-house where there were a couple of cows and a few heifers. The dumb brutes, as
                  if they instinctively knew of what was taking place, refused to leave. They beat
                  them savagely with their crowbars, and still the brutes refused to go out.
               With soul harrowed by despair, and brain seething to madness, one of the
                  distracted girls rushed in among the furious men to save their only property now,
                  the rebellious cattle. One of the wretches, a brutal, dissipated ruffian, lifted
                  his iron bar and swearing a fearful oath, struck her with all his drunken might on
                  the skull! She was carried out insensible, and stretched on a patch of moor, soft
                  and saturated with rain.
               The heart-broken mother and sisters gathered round her, and left the wreckers to
                  go on with their work undisturbed.
               The rebellious brutes still stubbornly refused to leave. The roof was tumbled down
                  on them, and the walls that enclosed them levelled with the ground.
               The next house that stood before the living, advancing tide of wreck and ruin was
                  Peter Bradley's.
               
               The reader will remember the old man whom we introduced as Mrs. Bradley's father,
                  on the night of the Station. He was lying on his bed of sickness when Adams and
                  his minions arrived, and every symptom bespoke him near his dissolution.
               "They have come—I hear them outside," he feebly moaned, rather than spoke to
                  Nellie, who was hovering gently about his bed like a ministering angel. "Nellie,
                  my child, tell your father and Frank to come and lift me up. I want to take one
                  last look at the old walls which I built long ago to make a home to bring your
                  grandmother to when we were married. Beneath this roof she entered a bride, and
                  under it your mother and yourself were born. Within these humble walls I have
                  enjoyed many a happy, peaceful day, and here I hoped to die—here, in this old home
                  of me and mine since I was married, some three score years ago, whose every stone
                  and stick is hallowed in my sight by the tenderest recollections of the past. But
                  God's will be done."
               There were many breaks and stoppages in the above, and when the invalid ceased
                  speaking he lay back exhausted.
               With tears in her eyes, and her great, true, affectionate heart bursting with
                  grief, Nellie complied with the old man's request.
               The two strong, rough men lifted him up with all the gentle tenderness of delicate
                  woman. Every corner he explored, every rafter in the roof he counted, every wall
                  and partition he patted affectionately with his feeble hand.
               "Now bring me to the door," he faltered.
               They brought him, and, still supported by their strong arms, he knelt down and
                  kissed the door-posts with all the impassioned tenderness of an Irish emigrant
                  taking farewell of a home which, ten chances to one, he or she would never see
                  again.
               Ah! it was a wondrous sight—that wasted form reverently 
                     keeeling
                     kneeling
                   down, his dim eyes straining to heaven, and his venerable long white
                  locks floating on the rain-laden gale, to take his last farewell of the door that
                  never opened to let him in after his day's toil but a sweet smile and a fond word
                  welcomed him—that never closed after him going out in the morning but loving eyes
                  followed him.
               A wondrous sight indeed! and the Irish are a wondrous race. With souls so
                  sensitive, and feelings so fine, naturally, that they can hold converse and
                  companionship with the most inanimate trifles, and, by such association, entertain
                  an affection for them that is as deep and ever verdant as the valleys of their
                  native land, and as lasting as their lives.
               Of the millions of Ireland's scattered children, we venture to say there are few
                  who would not perform a pilgrimage to the land of their birth, if only to see the
                  old roads, the hedges, the trees, the green fields, the places were they played in
                  happy childhood, even though all friends and early associates were dead or
                  departed.
               The Ninety-eight "rebel," grey with age, and broken down by toil, who journeyed
                  all the way from England's then penal colony. Van Dieman's Land, to Ireland, as
                  soon as he was released replied, when asked why he came back, his friends being
                  all dead and gone, that he "came to see the old hills before he died!" And that
                  "rebel" was the representative of the Irish race.
               Truly a strange race, full of fun and frolic, fighting and affection, ruction and
                  romance, poetry and passion.
               As we have said, a wondrous sight it was to see the old man kneeling there, and
                  one that might melt a heart that had anything human in it. But Adams was either
                  more or less than human.
               "Why stand ye staring there," he cried in rage, seeing even the crowbar brigade
                  standing motionless, and looking on in
                  awe at the strange sight. "Go on! we have no time to waste in staring at
                  hoary-headed assassins. Fling the trumpery out, and down with the hut!"
               Frank and his father gently bore the dying man back, and placed him on his
                  bed.
               The sides of the door were broken down wide enough to allow the bed to get out,
                  and thus was the old man, almost expiring, carried from the home which he himself
                  had built, and where he spent his long and happy, though humble, life.
               The bed was left standing on the street, some distance from the house. A tent was
                  improvised around it, by poles being covered with blankets, sheets, and
                  counterpanes.
               Father Denis, who had just arrived at the scene of desolation, entered the tent,
                  and administered the last rites of the Church to the dying man. The priest being
                  done, the family rushed in and gathered around the bed, leaving all their earthly
                  possessions at the mercy of the reckless wreckers.
               Soon all was demolished, and the heaven-appointed executor of Christian vengeance,
                  with his wretched minions, and the army of armed police which the Government had
                  detailed for his protection, moved on.
               But why should we follow them as they went from house to house, bearing
                  destruction in their front, and leaving desolation in their track? Why should we
                  harrow our souls by listening to heart-rending cries that echoed up from the
                  depths of anguished hearts? Why look on till two hundred and forty fellow
                     creatures
                  * from the infant,
                  perhaps not a week old, to the grand or great-grandfather, extended on his couch
                  of death, are cast on the bleak moor with no shelter from the merciless elements,
                  their homes levelled to the earth, their hearts drowned in the gloomy gulf of
                  desolate misery, their every hope in life plunged in the deepest abyss of blank
                  despair. He who, footsore, trod the thorny path of suffering and anguish from
                  Bethlehem's lowly crib to Calvary's bloody gibbet, understood it, and sorrowed for
                  them.
               
                  *This is the exact number. See newspapers of
                     the time containing accounts of the Glenveigh Evictions.
               
               Sick of heart we turn away.
               
               Charley Brady. Mrs. Bradley's aged parent, gradually grew weaker and weaker, the
                  thread of his life finer and finer, till finally, as the darker shades of night
                  were closing on a dark, dismal day, he quietly heaved his expiring sigh, and,
                  gently as the wafture of a summer zephyr, his soul took wing for that land where
                  the wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest.
               Numbers of peasants from the adjoining estates came there to condole in sincerest
                  sympathy with these victims of "vengeance:" and gladly would they have brought
                  them to their homes, but that they themselves had been threatened with a similar
                  fate by their own landlords should they receive one of the evicted tenants under
                  their roof. So had Adams poisoned the proprietors of the surrounding properties
                  against the persecuted people. Truly his vengeance was complete—his
                  persecution could go no further.
               And there on that desolate moor, over which the irresistible tide of destruction
                  had so lately swept, through the long, leaden hours of that moist and miserable
                  night did the outcasts gather together and hold the wake over the corpse of their
                  friend and neighbor. A sad wake, indeed!
               At length the morning came to the wretched outcasts, and with it came Adam
                  Grierson, guarded by a posse of police, to
                  notify them that if their cattle were not cleared off the estate before evening
                  they would be impounded for trespass.
               
               At noon the corpse was lovingly laid in its lowly grave within the consecrated
                  grounds of Gartan's ruined Abbey, to repose among, and mingle its ashes with those
                  of its kindred who had gone before, all awaiting the Great Day.
               And none among all the homeless, banished peasantry who were there, but had
                  beloved relatives taking their final rest in that old and weird-looking graveyard.
                  As soon as the last sod was smoothed over the narrow home of the departed, all,
                  men, and women, and children, knelt down, as if by magic, on the graves of their
                  kindred, and joined in that musical chant of woe, known in Ireland as the keen. Who has stood in an Irish graveyard on such occasions, looking
                  on and listening, and can ever forget the scene? No other combination of sounds
                  was ever conceived equal to it in effect upon the feelings of the listeners. It
                  must have been composed by the Goddess of Sorrow, herself!
               How kindly they bury their dead in the backward, rural districts in Ireland! The
                  corpse is never placed on any sort of vehicle, going to the graveyard. There is
                  consolation felt in carrying it, and the bereaved think it so much easier on the
                  insensible remains. The idea is absurd, but there is an infinite tenderness in
                  it.
               How different from the style among enlightened communities where they 
                     "Rattle his bones over the stones"
                   as if he were 
                     "Only a pauper that nobody owns;"
                   where 
                     
                        "The funeral makes the attraction,
                        And the black the woe."
                     
                  
               
               When we think of such primitive simplicity, such natural beauty of character, we
                  are almost forced to regret that the rays of modern enlightenment should ever
                  disperse the mists of "ignorance" and "superstition" among the kindly glens of
                  green Erin; for, while they illume the mind and reason, the soul very often loses
                  its pristine purity of brightness, and the keen sensitiveness of affection becomes
                  blunted.
               From a certain sort of enlightenment—that which is the order of the
                  day—may Heaven preserve them! We refer to the enlightenment which
                  makes men sneering, scoffing infidels, and women the brazen-faced, unblushing
                  advocates of that hideous moral abomination—Free-love! That
                     enlightenment which generates out of the filth of foulness such
                  reverend blaspheming "reformers." *
                   as he who, at a Woman's Suffrage Convention held in Boston lately,
                  declared "Christ came into the world and died on the Cross to give woman the
                  ballot!"
               
                  
                  *A Rev. Mr. Jones—see papers—passim—Jan.
                     27.
               
               Such text is preached not from by their spiritual guides. But—pshaw! what are they
                  but ignorant Popish priests, and Irish, too—ministers of superstition and
                  worshippers of idols?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               SCATTERED—EXILE—DEATH.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "All are scattered now and fled,
                           Some are living, some are dead;
                           And when I ask, with throbs of pain,
                           'Ah! when shall they all meet again,
                           As in the days fore'er gone by?'
                           The ancient timepiece makes reply—
                           'Forever!—never!
                           Never—Forever!'"
                        
                     
                     LONGFELLOW.
                  
               
               WITH sad hearts, and wistful tear-filled eyes looking longingly back, the funeral
                  party left the graveyard. With slow step they retraced the narrow mountain road
                  back to the scene of desolation and ruin.
               When they arrived there they found a number of conveyances, sent by the guardians
                  of the Letterkenny Workhouse, waiting to convey all who wished to go to that
                  institution of public charity.
               But none of them would go. That high sense of honor which the Irish peasantry are
                  remarkable for, made them spurn the bare idea of becoming poorhouse paupers—the
                  livers on public alms.
               And, too, they were under the impression that their support would be levied on the
                  tenants on the neighboring estates, in that electoral division of the Union. Well
                  aware that their old friends and neighbors had far more to pay, between rents and
                  taxes, than they were justly able to bear, they nobly determined that, should they
                  starve, they would not place an additional burthen on them—a burthen that would
                  inevitably crush them to earth in one year, or two at the longest.
               Had they known that Adams would have to bear the greater part of the cost of their
                  maintenance, they might, possibly, have degraded themselves in their own eyes by
                  going into the Workhouse in order to punish him. But they knew not that such would
                  be the case.
               They gathered their cattle together, and collected their pieces of furniture,
                  mostly broken by the rude handling which it got from the wreckers, preparatory to
                  their departure.
               As only a few of them had any conveyances, the generality of them allowed their
                  beds, baggage, &c., to be brought as far as Letterkenny, on the carts which
                  the guardians of the poor had sent out. The old and feeble of them, together with
                  the children, rode on them also. The cattle were driven in front, and the carts
                  brought up the rear.
               It was a strange sight. One might fancy they were the pioneers of civilization,
                  journeying to some distant, uncultivated country of which they had heard glowing
                  accounts, instead of a band of outcasts going they knew not whither, flung out on
                  the waves of the world by a feudal despot, with as much indifference as a sailor
                  feels in jerking a bottle over the bulwark of a ship, and with as little regard of
                  what became of them. But our simile falls far short. The sailor acts with
                  indifference and disregard. Adams acted with malice, black as hell, in his
                  heart.
               It was after night when they got to Letterkenny: but when they did, a kind and
                  encouraging reception awaited them. The principal men of the town had formed
                  themselves into a committee, and met them as they came in. Lodgment and support
                  for themselves and their cattle were secured for a week, so as to give the poor
                  people time to look about, and arrange some plans for the future.
               Their gratitude for this little kindness, at a time when all the world seemed clouded and cruel to them, was
                  deep and fervent.
               Before the week had expired, some of them had raised, by selling their stock and
                  chattels, and adding the proceeds to their trifles of ready cash, money enough to
                  procure passages for their families to America. Arriving in New York, they
                  proceeded West, and settled down on a tract of virgin soil, on the banks of a
                  river, where they are well to do now—better, infinitely better, than they ever
                  were before. They possess extensive and fruitful farms, over which 
                     "There rules no lord, saving the Lord on high."
                  
               
               They call the little hamlet which they have formed, "Glenveigh."
               Through the influence of Father MacGee with a landlord whose property lies
                  contiguous to Adams'. Peter Bradley and Billy Curran were permitted to purchase
                  two farms which were then for sale on that estate.
               A few of them, having no means to go farther, went to live in wretched
                  tenement-houses in Letterkenny, where they strive to eke out a miserable
                  existence, by the dint of hard work, and the exercise of the strictest
                  frugality.
               What became of the remainder, and they were the majority, we know not. Probably
                  they may be found in the dockyards and coalpits of England and Scotland, and
                  making railroads, erecting factories, and boring tunnels for these countries.—thus
                  building up their commercial prosperity and greatness, while their own unfortunate
                  land languishes away, her mines unwrought, her natural resources put to no
                  purpose, her towns in ruins, and her valleys fast becoming desolate. Truly, as
                  Gavan Duffy once said. Ireland is like a corpse on the dissecting table.
               The young girl MacFadden, the old widow's daughter, whom, it will be remembered,
                  the brutal ruffian struck with the iron bar, was taken to the Workhouse hospital,
                  there being no other, where, after lingering a week in intense agony, she
                  expired.
               Such was the fate of one of those victims of vengeance. Who knows but it was the
                  happiest that could befall her? If she died in the flush and bloom of ripening
                  womanhood, she also died in a state of purity and innocence, her soul unstained by
                  any crime that would close the gates of heaven against it.
               Of course the murderer escaped. No notice was taken of the death, with a view to
                  punish the monster, by any one. The rural population of Ireland have no faith in
                  the law, simply because they believe it was made expressly against them, and the
                  administration of it by the just-asses of the peace fully warrants
                  the popular belief.
               In the course of a few weeks, Peter Bradley and Billy Curran removed to their new
                  homes.
               The marriage of Frank and Mary was to take place in May, as if nothing had
                  happened.
               As love laughs at bolts and bars, so does it also at misfortune, temporary or
                  eternal.
               But an event was shortly to happen which was destined to defeat their fond
                  expectations—to delay, amid dangers dark and threatening, the happy hour of their
                  union for life.
               
               It was a beautiful evening in the latter end of April—too deliciously mild, too
                  voluptuously sweet for the season. It was the evening of a day which would be
                  called a pet in Donegal.
               Nellie Bradley longed that day to view the old scenes which she had not looked
                  upon since the day of the evictions.
               She dressed herself after dinner, to go and gratify her longing eyes with a sight of the old spots, which
                  were every one of them dear to her on account of their intimate connection with
                  some cherished reminiscence or other of former days.
               "Nellie, darling, don't stay late, or you might feel afraid coming home," said her
                  mother, as she tied the strings of Nellie's little bonnet into a bow, and shook
                  out her dress behind, and arranged her shawl.
               "No, mother: I must be back in time to milk the cows and get ready the supper. You
                  know you are so much failed, mother"—and the fair affectionate girl looked
                  tenderly on her wasted parent—"since we were put out, and dear old grandfather
                  died, that you are not strong enough to do anything. So now promise me you will
                  not do anything till I come back," she said in pleading tones, as if asking some
                  great favor.
               "I will not, Nellie, dear."
               "Mother, you are greatly failed—more than I thought," she continued sadly, looking
                  intently on the wan and wasted face of her beloved parent, as they stood in the
                  bright sunshine at the door.
               "I am, Nellie; but I'll soon get strong and well again."
               Nellie's heart was too full to speak. She kissed her adored mother, and hastily
                  turned down the grassy pathway that led to the road.
               It was within an hour of sunset. The mellowed rays of the sun slanted obliquely
                  along the sides of the hills, and sparkled on lake and stream.
               Nellie was returning home, her heart happy and her step light. The survey of the
                  old scenes and the delicious influence of the evening acted on and elevated her
                  spirits.
               With her bonnet swinging on her arm by the ties, her face blooming like a
                  fresh-blown rose with exercise, her wealth of tresses playing wantonly about her
                  shoulders, tossed in sport now and again by the soft breeze that rose occasionally
                  and rolled along slowly till it sighed itself to quietude, and humming to herself
                  snatches of some old song, she lightly tripped along the side of the
                  mountains.
               She left the road because the other was a "near-cut:" perhaps, too, because she
                  found it much pleasanter. The elastic sod under her foot, and the fragrance of the
                  heath-bloom wafting about her, were much more grateful and enticing than the hard
                  old road, with its deep coating of dust which rose around, and almost smothered
                  the traveller at every step.
               Turning an angle of the mountain, she came in sight of home in the bright
                  distance, and, also, got to the limit of the Adams estate. Climbing up the high,
                  slanting sod fence, she leaped down on the other side with the case and grace of
                  her own doe. A band caught her by the arm as soon as her foot touched the ground,
                  and a voice, in tones meant to be familiar and affectionate, whispered in her
                  ear—
               "Where hast thou been, my pretty wild gipsy?"
               With a sudden start, and cry of affright. Nellie attempted to spring away, but she
                  was firmly held.
               "Why in such haste and trepidation, my beautiful rover of the hills, my blooming
                  mountain maid?"
               She looked round, and, to her terror and disgust, she found herself in the grasp
                  of Bob Adams. And, from his thick guttural tones, she knew he was tipsy.
               "Let go my arm this moment, you infamous wretch!" she cried, her whole soul
                  blazing with indignation in her magnificent eyes.
               He cowered and quailed before her for a moment—but only for a moment. His beastly
                  passion mastered his cowardice, and he clutched her arm harder than before.
               Feeling confident in his power, he said, in tones tantalizing talizing in their coolness, and cowardly to
                  brutality in their feigned familiarity:
               "No need, I should think. for such dramatic attitude, action, and language. Nell.
                  You and I should know each other before now; and if we haven't been particularly
                  acquainted. believe me sweet one, it is not my fault—it is fate's. So just sit
                  down here till I tell you a sweet story—one that maidens delight to hear—of my
                  love and longing, as the poet says. By Jove, but the roses have got ripe on your
                  checks!" he cried admiringly, observing her face flush crimson with anger and
                  utter indignation.
               "No use to struggle, now," he continued, as she made frenzied efforts to release
                  herself from his loathsome grasp. "This is just the way with all the dear ones,
                  the cup-bearers of bliss to man: when they attempt to break away they want you to
                  hold them, and, when they say, 'I won't,' they mean, 'I will.' Come, now, be
                  quiet. This show of resistance would be all very well if there was any one looking
                  on, but there isn't: nor am I a Caliban that thou shouldst spurn me thus, fair
                  Miranda. Thou art fair as Calypso: be as yielding, as willing, too, and thou shalt
                  find me no cold-blooded Telemachus. Thou shalt have no cause to wish that I were
                  more of 
                     a a
                     a
                   man."
               "Release me this instant, you filthy, low-lived dog!" she cried, her well-poised
                  figure drawn up, her face burning with virtuous rage, and her powerful, withering
                  eyes flashing mingled scorn and disgust into his craven soul.
               "Release me!" she cried, and she seemed a very goddess in anger, "or I'll dash
                  your brains out against that rock!"
               "You will? Avaunt with this—"
               As he uttered the last syllable she gave him such a blow on the breast with one of
                  her hands, which she had succeeded in releasing (for he had caught and held her by
                  both arms), that he fell back, stunned, by the side of a large rock. With the iron
                  hold of a vise, however, he still held the other arm, and dragged her down with
                  him.
               He sprang up in an instant. and, acting under the double incentive of rage and
                  beastly passion, with one hand on her breast and the other on her throat, he held
                  her to the earth.
               An instant—the fractional part of an instant, if such could be—and a blow from a
                  heavy oaken club sent him reeling to the earth, his face coming down with fearful
                  force on the ragged granite rock.
               Insensible. Nellie was lifted up by the strong hands and pressed to the beating
                  heart, of her brother.
               Tenderly he carried her to a little stream that murmured near, and bathed her
                  temples with its pellucid water.
               A few minutes elapsed. and she heaved a deep sigh and opened her eyes in
                  affright.
               Seeing Frank leaning over her she smiled sweetly, but faintly.
               "Thank God!" cried Frank, his heart relieved of a crushing load of anxiety.
               Nellie sat up on the soft, green bank of the stream, and, lifting her tear-filled
                  eyes up to her brother's face, she said—
               "Oh. Frank, how was it that you came to my rescue? But why do I ask? It was
                  Providence sent you."
               "It was Providence. Nellie dear. And thank God that I was in time."
               Nellie covered her face with her hands, and murmured between them—
               "Were you coming to meet me. Frank dear?"
               "I was," he replied. "I came home about an hour ago, and hearing you had gone to
                  the glen, somehow I had no peace until I came to meet you. Something told me that
                  danger would come to you, and I started out. It was Providence that sent me this
                  way."
               
               Frank felt too happy, and too grateful to God, to further punish the infamous
                  scoundrel, who still lay, now groaning in an agony of pain, beside the rock.
               Nellie rose up, and leaning on Frank's arm, they walked slowly towards home.
               Bob Adams was observed and brought home by Adam Grierson, who, about an hour after
                  the events recorded took place, chanced to be passing that way.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               DISCOVERY—THREATS—CONSPIRACY—MURDER—ARREST
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "'When rogues fall out. honest people get their own,'
                           Is an old saying that is sometimes true, but just
                           As often false. Nay, honest people often lose.
                           In various ways, by rogues' misunderstandings.
                           As man and wife, that pair of sharpest scissors,
                           Bound together by the rivet matrimonial,
                           Will press against, and sharp, and shave each other,
                           But cut and crush whoever comes between,
                           So often does a brace of rogues, fallen out
                           And parted in roguery's short-lived friendship, crush
                           An honest man between their sundered legs."
                        
                     
                     ANY AUTHOR YOU WISH.
                  
               
               A DELIGHTFUL evening in the beginning of May. Glenveigh. through all its extent,
                  was filled with melody, and bright with sunshine, save the western precipice and a
                  strip along its base, which shrunk in shadow from the rays of the declining sun.
                  The air was redolent with the fragrance of the wild flowers which bloomed in the
                  bottom of the glen, mingled with the perfume of the heather-bloom. which rolled
                  down from the side of the eastern range of mountains.
               Thrush and linnet carolled their lays of love to their mates on every hazel shrub
                  and stunted tree; and the high-soaring lark far up out of sight, loudly sang its
                  vesper hymn at the portals of a cloudless, cerulean heaven.
               The lake, part in sunshine, part in shade, with its myriad little isles, around
                  which the snowy sea-gulls hovered, lay pulsing as tranquilly as the bosom of a
                  sleeping child.
               
               Adams stood at the front window of his own apartment in the Cottage, looking out
                  on the glorious scene.
               But it was in vain for him that nature arrayed herself in robes of beauty, and
                  filled the air with melody and perfume. His soul felt not her divine influence—it
                  was too base for that. Through all his life it had grovelled in mire, and felt in
                  its natural element—never soared above it.
               "Adam Grierson has come," said Dora, sweeping into the room with all the
                  voluptuous grace of Cleopatra, and speaking in as subduing tones, and looking as
                  adoringly on Adams as ever that amorous empress did on Mare Antony.
               "I'll see him out in the office." returned Adams, taking his hat and moving to the
                  door.
               He passed the dashing demirep without noticing her which surprised and annoyed her
                  not a little. With a scornful sneer on her lip she followed him out.
               The office was a shed-like structure attached to the Cottage, but entered from the
                  outside.
               Adams sat down in his leathern office chair at the desk, and Grierson stood up,
                  with his back to the wail. opposite him.
               It would appear as if he were aware of the reasons which made Adams send for him,
                  and anticipated the result of the interview; for there was a sullen scowl on his
                  face, yet a triumphant light in his ferret-like eye.
               "I have learned. Grierson," he began slowly, but with strong emphasis on every
                  word. "that while I have been placing implicit confidence in you, you have been
                  abusing it to the utmost extent of your power all along. I have been hearing, for
                  these last few weeks, that you have long been untrue to the trust which I have
                  ever placed in your in plain language that you have been dishonest, and robbing me
                  since you came about the place, but particularly since the evictions."
               "The lying report of some friend to them you put out," Grierson growled, between
                  his clenched teeth, doggedly.
               "No, it is not," replied Adams.
               "Well, some blood-sucker who wants to curry favor," persisted the bailiff.
               "Neither. I have heard it from those who had no interest whatever in telling me a
                  lie. But even on their report I did not rely. I instituted inquiries, organized a
                  watch on your movements, and what were the results?"
               "To find. I suppose, that I was no honester or better than yourself," replied
                  Grierson to the question not intended, by any means, for him to answer.
               "They were," pursued Adams, not noticing the interruption, "most convincing to my
                  mind that what I heard was but the strict truth. I would have wished other
                  results, but I could not blind myself to the palpable, and to you, damning facts.
                  I have discovered that the cattle which myself and Murray lost during these last
                  two years were stolen and sold by you and a confederate, who—"
               "Very likely you have discovered who murdered Murray, too," broke in Grierson,
                  bitterly.
               But Adams did not notice this interruption either. He proceeded:
               "—who lives at a distance. Your mode of operations I know all about. And no longer
                  ago than the night before last. I saw you and him, myself, drive off three
                  bullocks. They were sold yesterday at the Fair of Raphoe, by your confederate, and
                  I can tell you the sum they realized. I can also tell you that he and you met last
                  night and divided the money, and held your orgies till morning in a shebeen kept
                  by the widow of a revenue policeman, at Drimkeen."
               "There are worse orgies, as you call it, held in decenter looking
                  houses than in shebeens," observed Grierson, pointedly.
               
               But this observation also passed unnoticed.
               "With this, your system of robbery, in view, you cannot wonder that I am
                  determined you and I shall part. Here is your wages," shoving a few notes to the
                  outside of the desk. "up to this evening. I give you one week from now to be
                  cleared off my property, and out of the country. The greatest clemency I can show
                  you is not to prosecute and transport you. Take your money and go. Let me never
                  see you again."
               "You'll see me again, then," cried Grierson, stepping forward and striking the
                  desk a furious blow with his clenched hand. "You'll see me again. I say. If you
                  have been playing the spy on me so have I on you. I know your tricks as well as
                  you know mine—and the world'll know them, too. The night you and your blaguard
                  illegitimate son were plotting the murder of Murray, had I not a spy listening?
                  Yes. Adams. I had. One of your own servants, and my own daughter, was listening to
                  every word, and is ready to swear to it. You are the real assassin—your son and I
                  were only your tools. If I swing for it, so shall you, and so shall he. Thus will
                  I triumph over you even on the gibbet, as I have done through life, though you
                  little knew it. Do you think I care for life? Bah! what is life or death to me? I
                  have lived a reckless life. I have never feared anything. I am ready to die as
                  recklessly, staring the very devil in the face, and plunge into hell in triumph,
                  if only I have your old wretched soul along with me! Faugh! put up your pistol,"
                  he continued observing Adams pull a revolver out of his belt, and grasping him by
                  the wrist. "Such a toy might frighten a woman, but not me!"
               He wrung the pistol from Adams' grasp, and, retreating to the wall and presenting
                  it at him, cried:—"If you want to shoot now, come on! But no, you craven curdog!"
                  seeing Adams resume his seat, "you were never a man—never did an honorable, manly
                  action. There!" And he flung the pistol on the stone floor.
               Bounding from the ground, the pistol went off, the cap against which the hammer
                  pressed exploding.
               The ball grazed the cheek of Adams, and he fell forward out of his chair in a
                  faint.
               Grierson walked out and turned into the Cottage. He met Bob, who had heard the
                  report, rushing out through the hall. He stopped him and explained—
               "The pistol went off accidentally. He's only very slightly scratched on the face;
                  but you had better go and lift him up. He is lying in the corner, shivering like a
                  dog in a wet sack.
               Adams' fainting-fit was but a ruse de guerre, as
                  we might call it; for, though hostilities were not actually going on, the
                  situation had assumed a warlike aspect.
               On Bob's entrance he motioned him close to his sacred person, and whispered:
               "Grierson must be put out of the way. He holds your life and mine in his hands,
                  or, rather, on the tip of his tongue. He knows too much: and if he be allowed to
                  live he will use his knowledge to your and my destruction."
               "What is to be done?" queried Bob, anxiously.
               "Make friends with him—you. Promise to intercede for him with me. Assure him that
                  you will have him retained, and restored to his position of confidence. Go with
                  him: entice him into the Governor's public house; keep him there till night; make
                  him drunk; then follow him; here are a brace of revolvers; you know what to do
                  with them."
               Bob looked pale to ghastliness, and trembled in every fibre of his frame. He had
                  not fully recovered from the effects of the blow which Frank Bradley gave him with
                  the oaken club, two weeks previous. He felt weak and nervous,—altogether out of
                  sorts to engage in the murderous enterprise which Adams' words shadowily, but
                  unmistakably, indicated.
               "Remember," resumed the tempter, "that your life and mine are the forfeit, if Grierson is permitted
                  to escape. Bear that in mind, and then form your resolution!"
               "I suppose it must be done!" gasped Bob.
               "Nobly said!" cried Adams, "and I am confident it shall be bravely done."
               He took a decanter and glass from a drawer of the desk, and invited the worthy son
                  to drink.
               With unsteady hand. Bob filled the glass with the burning brandy, and drank it
                  off. Pouring another libation to courage, he observed:
               "Yes, Governor, I will do the bit of by-play. There isn't much risk in it either.
                  Your arrangement is admirable. Though, by Mars: it is rather infra dig. for me to foul my hands with the base blood
                  of a bailiff. But, as 
                     Berkley
                     Berkeley
                  , or some other sage fool, has proved that everything exists in the 
                     imagimation
                     imagination
                  , I can imagine, for the time, that Adam is an emperor."
               Adams saw that the vivacious Bob was becoming loquaciously inclined, and likely to
                  lose his opportunity, in the liberal flow of bombast and brandy.
               "Time is more precious than gold. Bob," he urged. "See that Grierson is not gone.
                  Take no more now," he counselled, catching Bob by the wrist, as he again lifted
                  the decanter to pour out a third libation.
               "Pshaw! old man," replied Bob, contemptuously. "It takes twelve glasses for a man,
                  and eight for a woman, to put them in any sort of business tune and good
                  spirits."
               "Well, take this one," he conceded: "but let it be the last for the present."
               Bob dashed over the fiery fluid.
               "Now I go!" he nodded, laying down the empty glass.
               "And remember, if the thing is nicely done," Adams promised, "you shall have a
                  thorough-bred hunter and a pack of hounds."
               "Good!" cried Bob. halting suddenly at the door. "I'll petition the Lord
                  Chancellor to revive the old baronetcy of Glenveigh in my interest. Then what a
                  sensation I'll create in society! What a star I'll be among the nobles!"
               Fate was friendly to the Lord of Glenveigh, and the baron that was to be, that
                  evening. Everything happened just as Adams had anticipated, with the addition of a
                  circumstance, fortuitous and most fortunate to them.
               Bob and Grierson were sitting over their cups like two sworn brothers, in a
                  public-house, or gin-mill, as it would be called in this land of presidents and
                  polities, kept by a man who was popularly known by the soubriquet of
                  "Governor."
               The sun had set, and the faint traces of daylight which yet lingered, as if loath
                  to leave the world to darkness, faded fast away.
               The Governor 'tis but fair that we should style him, too, for he was a worthy man,
                  God rest him). rushed in from the door at which he was standing, informing all
                  that—
               "There is young Frank Bradley coming along, and I haven't seen the boy since they
                  went away from hereabouts!"
               This was a delicate way of referring to the evictions, for the good man remembered
                  that he had Bob and Grierson as patrons that evening. He often congratulated
                  himself afterwards on his presence of mind on that important evening.
               "Ask him in, Governor." said Bob, smiling blandly, but looking rather besotted. "I
                  would like to share a drink with him. You know," he continued, turning to
                  Grierson: "that I don't approve of all the old fellow does, and I hope the people
                  don't think my opinions and wishes are identical with his very often—generally, in
                  truth, they are quite antagonistic to his."
               
               The Governor did as desired.
               Frank was ushered into the little room where the pair of revellers sat, before he
                  was well aware of where he was.
               Bob stood to his feet, and stretched out his hand in welcome. It was declined by
                  Frank, who made a motion to retreat.
               Bob stept between him and the door.
               "I have been looking out for an opportunity," he observed, "of explaining to some
                  of the ejected tenants how I felt about that cruel act of my father. I am glad to
                  find you, for you are the man I most wished to meet. I hope by-gones are by-gones,
                  and forgotten between us," he added, suddenly remembering his infamous conduct to
                  Nellie, on the mountain, and its consequence to himself.
               Frank turned on his heel in disgust, and motioned him out of the way.
               But Bob's idea was to detain him as long as possible.
               "Yesterday," he proceeded. "my father signed the legal documents, making over
                  Glenveigh to me. He is going to remove next week to his estate in Meath. I will
                  then be master, and I know what I will do." (This was the story he told Grierson
                  also.)
               "Although I don't wish it to be generally known." he pursued, "for a little time
                  yet. I don't mind telling you that I have fully resolved to restore their farms to
                  every one who was evicted. For those who have gone to America. I will sell theirs
                  and remit the money to them. Every man shall have his own—that I am resolved upon!
                  And, too," looking knowingly at Frank, "I know who shall be mistress of Glenveigh.
                  But as there is no one present but Adam, who is a friend. I may speak plainly.
                  Well, then, I have set my heart on making the fair Nellie, your sister, the lady
                  of the lakes and glens."
               With a look of unutterable scorn, Frank rudely shoved him aside and walked
                  out.
               He was not gone over a quarter of an hour when Bob and Adam rose to depart.
               "I will meet you here to-morrow evening at five o'clock," said Bob, as they walked
                  away from the door, "I will have news for you by that time."
               "I will be here, certainly," responded Adam. "And you won't fail to come?"
               "No fear. All right! Good-by, Adam."
               "Good-by, Master Bob," and Adam went away fully persuaded that Bob was the finest
                  fellow alive.
               Each took his own way, which lay directly opposite.
               Bob, as soon as he got out of sight, doubled round, and, by a circuitous route,
                  aimed his course for Bradley's limekiln, at which, it will be remembered. Hill
                  laid the constable 
                     
                        "—down to rest.
                        With his martial cloak around him."
                     
                  
               
               He walked very fast, as his object was to be there before Grierson reached it, and
                  he was.
               Adam, wrapt in the seventh heaven of bacchanalian bliss by the possession of more
                  spirits than the natural, and vigorously rolling out snatches of drinking songs,
                  jogged along at his ease.
               Bob lay close to the side of the kiln until Grierson came fairly opposite.
               Bang! bang! bang!—bang! bang! bang!
               The leaden contents of the "six-shooter" were emptied into the body of the
                  betrayed wretch!
               Pressing his both hands on his abdomen, he staggered forward, and fell heavily to
                  the earth with a deep groan.
               Bob crawled away for a distance on all fours.
               Twelve or fifteen perches from the scene of the assassination, up a bridle road,
                  or lane, lived another bailiff of Adams, by the name of Campbell. He was one of
                  Grierson's staff of under-bailiffs, or shepherds, as they were called after the
                  evictions, and deeply did he envy Adam his superior position.
               
               He it was who had given the information of Grierson's dishonesty, and set the
                  landlord on the watch.
               In the event of Grierson's dismissal he expected his berth. He was encouraged,
                  too, in his ambitious expectations by his wife, with whom Master Bob was
                  particularly familiar, and to whom he made promises that he would fling his
                  influence with "the old chap" in the scale in Campbell's behalf.
               Bob turned up to Campbell's, knowing full well that he would find himself in
                  congenial quarters, and obtain ready assistance in working out a plot which he had
                  formed against Frank Bradley.
               He found no person in the house save the shepherd's wife—a buxom dame, and
                  handsome, too, of some thirty summers, and as many winters as you wish to thrown
                  in.
               She was a matron of more ambition than virtue; loved money far more than
                  modesty.
               "By Venus: but you look blooming this evening, Eliza," Bob addressed her, sitting
                  down on the chair which she wiped and presented him.
               "The roses are getting riper every day on your sweet, soft cheeks. And your eyes?
                  Ah. me, they are like two lakes of love, with Cupid swimming about in them in
                     dishabille," and Bob heaved a sentimental
                  sigh.
               "Ah now, let us alone with you, Master Bob." responded the matron, ogling Bob,
                  coaxingly. "You are always coming over me with your blarney and sentiment, so you
                  are."
               "Sentiment!" cried Bob. "why, there is no more sentiment in me than in a jackass,"
                  he elegantly assured her.
               The lady laughed heartily, and, placing a chair close to Bob, sat down.
               "But when Assassination stalks, with bloody front, along our roads, and men are
                  murdered at every turning," resumed Bob, "there is no time to make love, and drink
                  of its luxuries."
               "You frighten me, Master Bob," cried the dame. "Who is murdered? Where?"
               "Adam Grierson is the man, and down at the lime-kiln is the place."
               "Adam Grierson!" echoed the lady, abstractedly.
               "Yes!" replied Bob. "But rouse yourself up. Gather your brains. I want you to do a
                  favor for me."
               The lady brightened up: and Bob continued:
               "I have a particular good wish for Frank Bradley. I would like to do him a kindly
                  act for the very hard one my worthy parent did. Of all things. I just fancy the
                  best thing we could do for him is to procure him free quarters at the County Hotel
                  at Lifford, with the immediate prospect of a happy death. In other words, my
                  lovely Eliza. I want you to give the alarm immediately. Say you saw Frank Bradley
                  firing from behind the kiln, and then crawling on his hands and feet away."
               "But if he was at home at the time?" she observed, more through curiosity, or to
                  get information, than any balking of Bob's proposition.
               "But he was not. Eliza dear; he passed this road not more than fifteen minutes
                  ago, and was at the Governor's drinking with myself and Adam. Hist! a foot."
               Bob slipped out of the back door, which the matron quickly opened for and shut
                  after him, and Campbell walked in the front one.
               "Oh, George!" she cried, excitedly, throwing her arms around her husband's neck,
                  and leaning her head on his shoulder. "I'll die! The life is frightened out of me.
                  I have been in a faint!"
               "What in the world alls you, woman?" he asked, in astonishment, trying to release
                  himself from her embrace, in which, he thought, there was an excess of affection.
                  "Sure, I know you'll die. But you're not going to do it yet a while, I think."
               "Feel my heart beating!" she moaned.
               
               "Faith, and if it wasn't beating it would be worse for you, I believe."
               "George, dear! how cruel you are to say that," she groaned. "I'm all
                  through-other!"
               "Ay, and you'll soon be through me if you don't let me go pretty soon. But what in
                  the name of fortune is the matter, woman?"
               "Ah, I was standing outside the door, and I saw a man rising up from behind the
                  limekiln and shooting another man that was walking along the road. Oh, George
                  dear. I'll die!"
               "Did you know any of them?" he exclaimed, eagerly.
               "I am almost certain the man that fired the shots was Frank Bradley: but I did not
                  look after him much. I ran into the house and fainted."
               "And where is the man that was shot?"
               "He must be lying down on the road yet."
               Campbell rushed down, and found Grierson groaning and grovelling in the dust on
                  the road.
               "Ha! ha!" laughed the amorous dame, softly: "what big idiots men are! It wouldn't
                  do to tell him the real way of it—he is such a booby! It would come out on
                  him."
               There is no need for detailing how Grierson was carried home, where he lingered in
                  agony until close on morning: how Bob Adams (who had been made a Justice of the
                  Peace a few weeks before) took down his dying deposition, and wrote down Frank
                  Bradley as recognized by the murdered man as his assassin, notwithstanding that he
                  declared before two policemen that he did not know who shot him; how Frank Bradley
                  was arrested; and how, at the inquest the next day, Grierson's dying declaration,
                  and the confirmatory testimony of Mrs. Campbell, together with the fact of his
                  being about the place late that evening, were damning evidence against Frank, and
                  caused him to be sent to Lifford jail to stand his trial at the next assizes.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "When liberty appeared at last.
                           And all my bonds a side were cast,
                           The heavy walls to me had grown
                           A hermitage—and all my own!
                           And half I felt as they were come
                           To tear me from a sacred home:
                           With spiders I had friendship made,
                           And watched them in their sullen trade;
                           And seen the mice by moonlight play,
                           And why should I feel less than they—
                           We were all inmates of one place,
                           And I the monarch of each race,
                           Had power to kill—yet, strange to tell!
                           In quiet we had learned to dwell—
                           My very chains and I grew friends,
                           So much a long communion tends
                           To make us what we are:—even I
                           Regained my freedom with a sigh!"
                        
                     
                     PRISONER OF CHILLON.
                  
               
               WITH the longest quotation, we begin what is intended to be the shortest chapter
                  of our story, as yet, and we are near the end. But as 
                     "Tales when once begun do often lengthen out,"
                   so may our chapter.
               Two days subsequent to Frank Bradley's arrest he was to have been married.
               The danger which he prophetically dreaded had come—the presentiment was
                  fulfilled.
               It was the latter and of June, and the assizes were fast approaching.
               Although an untried prisoner, and supposed, by a fiction of the law, to be
                  innocent till proved guilty, he was
                  treated with exceptional severity, with a refinement of cruelty.
               But then he was a prisoner charged with the commission of a murderous outrage on
                  the sacred person of a bailiff, and the local landocratic rulers knew how to have
                  such an unpardonable offender treated.
               He was kept in solitary confinement, and permitted to see no friend or sympathetic
                  visitor, except on certain days, and at a certain hour.
               His range of view was oppressively, blindingly bounded by the four dark, dank
                  walls of his cell, save when he stood on tip-toe and peered out through the close,
                  heavy, rusted bars of the small window at the lesser criminals working in the
                  yard; which he did every day till his straining eyes would become sore, and his
                  brain whirl.
               For the free, fresh, invigorating breeze of the mountains, he breathed the
                  choking, fœtid atmosphere of his damp dungeon, till his soul became sick—ay, even
                  unto death.
               He knew all the legal power of the Crown, not to talk of its secret influence,
                  backed up by the local landocracy, would be brought to bear against him. By the
                  way, "the Crown" always shows itself remarkably eager to prosecute agrarian
                  criminals in Ireland—most worthily so!
               To be sure, he was confidant that every effort under heaven would be made by his
                  friends, and indeed the whole people (we mean the liberal middle and lower
                  classes) of Donegal, whose sympathies he felt sure were with him, to save him from
                  an undeserved and ignominious fate.
               But he sighed to think of the little their efforts could do to meet the terrible,
                  over-powering array of legal talent, secret power, and strong prejudice which
                  would stand against him at his coming trial.
               Still, for his own present suffering and impending danger, he cared not. Every
                  thought that flitted through his racked brain, every fear that darkened his soul,
                  and every hope that brightened it, were bound up in, and intertwined with his
                  unbroken thoughts of the dear sweet girl from whose bridal embrace he had been so
                  rudely torn.
               The morning of the trial came—the 23d of June, 1863.
               The prisoner was brought from the dungeon to the dock in the custody of two
                  keepers.
               And here we must pause in astonishment, that he ever trod the earth again a free
                  man.
               The sheriff who empanelled the jury was a landlord, and had bailiffs, and,
                  consequently, was prejudiced against the prisoner.
               The Grand Jurors, before whom the bills were laid, were every man of them
                  landlords and had bailiffs.
               The Judge who heard the case was a landlord, and had a staff of those useful
                  men.
               The Special Jury who sat to hear the case, and at the feet of whose mercy or
                  malice (for justice had nothing to do with the trial) the life of the accused lay,
                  were principally bailiffs and under-agents.
               Add to this the fact that the greatest force of forensic talent the Crown could
                  command was there to prosecute; that Grierson's dying declaration, as written by
                  Robert Adams. J. P., proclaimed Frank the murderer; that the virtuous Mrs.
                  Campbell swore positively she saw the prisoner at the bar shoot Grierson, and then
                  crawl away on hands and knees.
               In accents of incredulity, we well might exclaim. Is it possible he escaped?
               He did. Thanks to the immortal Macdonagh, the first criminal lawyer at the Irish
                  Bar, and the exertion of the accused's friends, who procured the inestimable
                  services of that counsel. And thanks, too, to the interposition of a just
                  Providence.
               
               We do not intend to go into the details of this, or of the three subsequent
                  trials, whose dangers and horrors Frank underwent before he was finally released,
                  the jury failing to agree on any of the four occasions. Full reports can be found
                  in any of the leading Irish papers of '66 and '64.
               Still, with all our haste to draw our history to a close we are constrained to
                  pause and remark, that to Macdonagh is due the infinite credit of bearing down the
                  hitherto impregnable walls of a very bastile of landlord power, persecution,
                  corruption and prejudice, and setting an innocent man free from the merciless
                  fangs of the murderous 
                     Monetaur
                     Minotaur
                  , who, up to then, held court at Lifford, and who never before failed to
                  glut its maw on the carcass of a prisoner accused of agrarian crims.
               At the first trial, speaking of the deposition of the assassinated bailiff, he
                  said:
               "It is well known to those who have made the subject a special study, that when a
                  man is dying all the incidents which have impressed themselves on the page of
                  memory float over the mind of the dying man in wild confusion, and become so much
                  mixed up that the bewildered brain refuses to form an intelligent answer, and the
                  crowded, disordered memory fail to recall a separate incident. Thus the
                  declaration of the dying man is useless. From the evidence for the prosecution we
                  learn that Grierson was shot at from behind Bradley's limekiln, and, too, that
                  Frank Bradley, the prisoner, was with him and young Mr. Adams in the Governor's
                  public house not more than fifteen minutes previous to the shooting. Hence, it
                  naturally follows that the name of Frank Bradley was the most likely to be mixed
                  up with the delirious ravings of the expiring man. For these reasons I call on the
                  jury to reject Grierson's declaration as worthless."
               Thus did he pursue his argument—call it sophistry, if you choose—and thus, to a
                  Lifford jury at least, who were unable to take up even a false proposition and
                  demonstrate its falsity, did he prove that the principal testimony (the dying
                  declaration) was unreliable: and then dared, defied them to bring in a verdict of
                  guilty in the face of the country.
               In short, he showed that Grierson's deposition should be scouted as the ravings of
                  a delirious man, which, he contended, he actually was at the time it was
                  taken—delirious from drink, agony, and the pain of immediate death. He made Mrs.
                  Campbell contradict herself so often, that he threatened to have her prosecuted
                  for perjury; he confounded the opposing counsel; he terrified the Judge; and then
                  defied the jury.
               It was a sublime display—the walls of Lifford Court-house never rang with the
                  like, or perhaps never will.
               Withal, Frank had a narrow escape. The jury disagreed. Eleven were for hanging him
                  and one for releasing him.
               This was the first trial; and it is a noteworthy coincidence that eleven were for
                  setting him at liberty and one for hanging him on the fourth and last trial. An
                  exact reversion:
               There was another prisoner in Lifford jail, and tried at that assize, in whose
                  fate we should feel an interest. We mean Jamey MacDaid.
               The strongest evidence was given against him, and there was none in his favor,
                  save the testimony of Father MacGee and a few others as to good character, which
                  availed him nothing.
               The Judge was making some remarks to the prisoner, prefatory to his passing
                  sentence of death on him, when a woman, foot-sore with travel, and with haggard
                  look and dishevelled hair, entered the Court-house, and, crushing frantically
                  through the crowd that thronged the passage, made for the bench.
               
               A buzz of curiosity ran through the crowd, and soon turned to one of
                  excitement.
               "Don't, Judge, darlin', don't hang him!" she cried, out of breath, and laboring
                  under the most intense excitement—"He's innocent! he's innocent! don't hang him,
                  an' I'll tell all about it."
               It was Nancy Ward, the widow, who lived in the lone mountain hut.
               The reader will remember the wild scene in her cabin, during which Fair, the
                  sergeant, was shot by her little son, and for whose murder Jamey MacDaid was now
                  bowing his head to receive the severest sentence an earthly judge could
                  deliver.
               There was a silence solemn as death throughout the Court-house. Every eye was
                  turned on the frenzied woman, whom at first they regarded as a maniac.
               The Judge dropped the "black-cap."—worn, while passing sentence of death, by the
                  Judges of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.—which he was in the act
                  of putting on, and motioned to the fussy, awkward, big policemen, all belted and
                  shoulder-strapped, and who were very demonstrative in showing their authority, to
                  make way for her.
               She recounted the circumstances of Fair's death fully and fairly, just as the
                  reader is acquainted with them, and ended by delivering herself into the hands of
                  justice, "if his honor would have the kindness to take her instead of the poor
                  child, who had-no sense—the innocent creature."
               The Judge faintly smiled at her simplicity, and in the body of the court there
                  rose a loud and prolonged cheer. There was not a man or a woman there whose heart
                  did not echo the sentence—"The wretch got but what he deserved!" Fair was
                  meant.
               Of course Jamey was released—released with his constitution shattered, his spirits
                  crushed within him by eight long months' imprisonment, and his mind diseased by
                  the morbid thoughts that preyed upon it in his dungeon's solitude.
               Nancy Ward was not a little astonished when the Judge complimented her on her
                  conduct, and dismissed her with a smile.
               "May the angels guard yet honor's glory!" she cried, "and the blessings of heaven
                  fall on you like the dew av a summer's evening!"
               Saint Peter could not convince her ever after but he was "the finest jintleman
                  inside the walls av Ireland."
               Jamey MacDaid returned to his home. To what? No, not to his home. While he lay in
                  his dungeon, the destroying angel, or demon, passed his house, and there were no
                  marks on the door-posts to save it.
               He found what he left a comfortable little cottage, a heap of ruins: his
                  furniture, mostly broken, piled on what once was his street, and his cattle gone.
                  They had been impounded by Adams' order, for trespassing on the estate after the
                  evictions, there being no person to look after them. After lying fourteen days
                  (the required time by the law) in the pound, kept by no other than Adam Grierson
                  himself, they were auctioned, and Adam was auctioneer and purchaser. The sum they
                  drew just covered the expenses of feeding them for the fourteen days.
               Such it was that Jamey MacDaid found things after his liberation.
               By nature sensitive to the utmost limit of the extreme, and never very solid of
                  brain, his fate may be anticipated. Still there was a consequentiality in it, as
                  there is in that of us all. He lived a lonely life; thought much, always looking
                  on the dark side of everything; was subject to many mental illusions; often
                  wandered in his judgment, and was unsettled in his opinions.
               He regarded himself as standing on a rock, the world a roaring ocean around
                  him—one leap, and all was over.
               
               Misfortune, black and bitter, made his soul the dwelling-place of misery. Misery
                  drove him to despair—despair to insanity—and insanity to—
               His body was found in Gartan Lough some days after his release.
               This happened in Ireland, a 
                     beautiul
                     beautiful
                   and productive Island, under the mild, enlightened, and fostering sway
                  of England.
               We mention this, lest the reader should think it occurred in Russia fifty years
                  ago.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               ALL GOES MERRY AS A MARRIAGE BELL.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Oh the marriage, the marriage,
                           With love and mo
                                 bhuachaill for me,
                           The ladies that ride in a carriage
                           Might envy my marriage to me;
                           For Eoghan is straight as a tower,
                           And tender and loving and true;
                           He told me more love in an hour
                           Than the squires of the country could do.
                           His word is as good as an oath,
                           And freely 'twas given to me;
                           Oh, sure, 'twill be happy for both
                           The day of our marriage to see!"
                        
                     
                     THOMAS DAVIS.
                  
               
               Two long years of prison torture and mental torment, vacillating between hope and
                  despair, to Frank Bradley in his dungeon. Two long years of weary waiting, of
                  anguish and anxiety, to the gentle Mary Curran, his betrothed, on the banks of
                  Gartan Lough, where St. Columbkille, the Dove of the Churches, prayed and fasted
                  fifteen hundred years ago.
               But release and relief came at last.
               As we said in the last chapter. Frank was liberated, after lying two years in
                  prison and standing four trials, the jury disagreeing each time.
               The Crown saw its inability—its willingness was well displayed—to convict; hence
                  it did him the neuter favor (if we may so express ourselves) of letting him go
                  when it saw it was useless to hold him any longer.
               There were wild times in Donegal the evening he was released, and the next
                  one.
               
               Scarcely a village in all the county but burned tarbarrels, the youths forming
                  processions and marching through the streets, and the local orators airing their
                  patriotic eloquence to applauding crowds, to commemorate the event.
               Letterkenny especially was in a state of fierce joy—we might say in a state of
                  siege: for solid squares of men, young and old, were formed at every corner, and
                  columns, deep and long, of the juveniles paraded the streets with the bearing and
                  precision of veterans who had often looked death in the eye and roystered in the
                  wild carnival of battle! The watchword was "Who dares say bow to Bradley?"
               Nor were the women—Heaven bless the sunny souls of the dears!—wanting on the
                  occasion. What they lacked in military order and bearing they made up for in
                  enthusiasm and demonstrativeness. They were led on by the game and gallant Susie
                  Friel, the Letterkenny Joan of Are—peace to the soul of the heroine! for she has
                  been gathered to the grave of her fathers.
               There were a few inhabitants of the town who, unfortunately for themselves, had
                  dropped some remarks "about Bradley" not at all in accordance with the popular
                  sentiment, and they might well shiver in their shoes that evening. But, believing
                  prudence to be the better part of valor, they very wisely "shut up shops," and
                  retired for the night at an unusually early hour.
               Frank's friends were all in town to meet him; for, although there are no
                  telegraphs in Donegal, the news flew fully as fast.
               The car by which he came down from Lifford was met at the Port Bridge by a body of
                  the demonstrationers (we use the American word, on the principle that when one is
                  in Rome he should do as Rome does). The horse was unyoked, and, with strong arms
                  and willing hearts, the car was rolled into town, amid the deafening cheers and
                  ear-splitting "hurras" of the multitude.
               Two fiddlers, whom they had brought out and set upon the car, scraped away, as if
                  for life or death, at 
                     "See, the conquering hero comes!"
                  
               
               Thus did Frank ride on his triumphal car as gloriously as ever did world-subduing
                  emperor of Ancient Rome.
               Well might he, if he felt inclined to be dramatic, exclaim that night— 
                     
                        "If I'd shake hands with a king upon his throne,
                        I'd think it honor to his majesty!"
                     
                  
               
               Though Frank left town early next morning with his father and a few others—Billy
                  Curran among them—it was well nigh evening when he got home.
               The women and children rushed out from every house along the way to congratulate,
                  and welcome, and kiss him. The men stuck their spades and dropped their crowbars
                  in the fields and quarries, and ran to the road to have the honor of shaking hands
                  with him—and it was considered a very distinguished one. No man who did not "shake
                  hands with Bradley" was thought anything of afterwards.
               The welcome accorded him by his mother and Nellie, and 
                     "The bosom friend, dearest of all."
                   we will not attempt to describe. We could not do it justice, and we are not
                  sacrilegious enough to travestie it.
               Two years, exactly, have passed since Frank's arrest. Again sweet May, the queen
                  of months, has been borne to earth on the wings of beauty and brightness.
               Fair, tender Mary Curran, is joyous again. Fate failed to rob her of her wish—she
                  will be married in beautiful May. Her bridal robes shall fling their vestal sheen
                  on the sunshine of that fairest daughter of the year.
               A couple of weeks, laden with prayers of gratitude for his almost miraculous
                  escape, and tinged with the golden glow of love, sped swiftly past to Frank and
                  his betrothed.
               
               It was a busy time that with Mary and Nellie. Two fussy little dressmakers
                  (withered sprigs of antique maidenhood, grown diminutive by years and single
                  blessedness, who talked interminably of love, matrimony, the legion of beaux they
                  had in their day, and the number of proposals they refused, were out from
                  Letterkenny stitching, stitching away with the dearest little crickets' feet of
                  fingers conceivable.
               Denis Kelly, too, the country tailor, with his dwarfish and lame apprentice,
                  mischievous as a monkey, a raider on hen-roosts, and robber of orchards, sewed and
                  sang, and sang and sewed, from the rising of the sun till the going down of the
                  same, to replenish Frank's wardrobe.
               And the great day came at last.
               It is quite a common practice with story-writers to microscopically dissect and
                  minutely describe the dress of the blushing bride (and who ever wrote a story in
                  which there was not a bride? and her maids. For this very reason we will not do so
                  here. But we may as well be candid, and confess our deplorable ignorance of the
                  names given to the thousand and one trifles which constitute a lady's dress, and
                  our total want of taste in such matters, to arrange them together, so as to make
                  them blend into a thing of beauty and a joy forever. Unfortunately, we did not
                  spend an apprenticeship to the millinery business, never jumped a counter, or
                  measured a yard of ribbon in our life: we can only sigh for our ignorance, and
                  pray the reader to do the same.
               We might essay a description of Frank's habiliments but people feel no interest in
                  what men wear, even on that day which is the most important in the history of
                  their lives.
               We will pass over all preliminaries, then, and present the bridal party to the
                  reader before the altar.
               Father Denis, though weak and ill of health (the bitter fate of his people, whom
                  he loved so well, crushed him to earth—killed him!) rose from his bed of sickness,
                  notwithstanding the earnest dissuasions of the doctor and his immediate friends,
                  to have the pleasure of uniting, in the mystic marriage union, the only two of the
                  persecuted people of Glenveigh who remained for whom he could perform such sublime
                  ceremony.
               As he stood on the lower step of the altar in his surplice and stole, and held the
                  ritual in his trembling hand, the big tears standing in his sunken eyes, and
                  quivering on his wasted cheek, what were his thoughts we dare not to divine: but
                  they must have been sad,—sad, indeed!
               Though his tongue was silent, his look spoke the sentence which his Master did
                  before him—"My soul is sorrowful even unto death."
               Father MacGuire stood beside, and looked upon him with affectionate anxiety.
               Mary Curran was much agitated by the manifest though silent grief of her own
                     Soggarth Aroon, at whose knee she so often
                  knelt to lay bare the inmost images of her mind, the most secret feelings of her
                  soul, and receive his unerring counsel and paternal blessing. The delicacy of her
                  position, too, added to her visible agitation. Her head was gently bowed, her eyes
                  cast on the floor, and her veil trembled like—well, like a bridal veil.
               It was a moment of solemn, embarrassing silence: but it was soon relieved by
                  Father Denis's proceeding with the ceremony.
               When the rite was over, Frank gallantly saluted the chaste cheek of his bride with
                  a hearty Irish kiss.
               There was a subdued murmur of approbation and applause.
               "By gorra, Andy," observed a humorous-looking individual who stood in the back
                  ranks, to his friend near him, "but that was real manly o' the gorsoon. He kissed her fairly an' openly like a man, not like the
                  dead-an'-alive good for nothing that I wanst saw. It was in the parish o'
                  Glenties; an' the groom was young, but the bride was a widow, fastened enough in
                  the horn. Seeing he wasn't goin' to give the bride her dues his best-man punched
                  him, an' told him to kiss her, but the lifeless crathur replied, an' we all heard
                  him, 'it wasn't for the kiss I married her. It was for the twa or three cows an'
                  the bit o' lan'.' Seein' the poor bride was goin' to be badly treated. I steps up
                  an' kisses her meself, Andy."
               There was, of course, a smothered laugh among the young men, near enough to hear,
                  at this recountment of disinterested gallantry.
               Still in his surplice and stole. Father Denis motioned to the marriage party, who
                  were about to leave, to remain, that he had something to say.
               "My children," he began, in a faltering tone, almost choked with feeling. "I want
                  to say a word to you before you depart. I have been thirty-five years your parish
                  priest, and in that time I have learned to love you deeply and sincerely, and I
                  believe you love me."
               Feeling is wonderfully electrical among the unsophisticated Irish peasantry. The
                  heart of every one present was touched on its tenderest cord, and deep murmurs of
                  "We do! we do!" ran through them.
               "I am aware of your little failings," he continued, "but they are only as the
                  specks on the sun. They have not checked my love for you, but only seasoned it,
                  and kept it from running to excess."
               "Since I came among you, I have never asked one of my flock to do anything that
                  was not done; and now when I stand on this altar for, perhaps, the last time—"
               "Oh! no, no, no!" they sobbed passionately—the strongest, stoutest heart melted to
                  grief, and every eye filled with tears.
               "Yes, I feel this is the last time I shall ever stand on this altar."
               There was a wild, impulsive energy in the loud sobs and exclamations which
                  followed this, and which surged through the chapel, like the deep-breathings of an
                  agitated sea. Father MacGuire also spoke to them, and, after a time, calmed them
                  down.
               "Now, when I stand here for the last time," the old priest went on, barely able to
                  give utterance to his words, "you will not refuse me one request."
               "We won't, we won't!" they cried.
               "Then, in the words of the Creator and Saviour of us all, 'Forgive your enemies.'
                  No matter how much, or what, you suffer, take not vengeance into your own hands.
                  God in his own good time, shall take ample revenge on those who hurt or harm the
                  lowliest of his creatures. The head of the oppressor, however haughty, shall be
                  bowed to the earth, and his power shall become as dust and ashes. Every one of you
                  here is liable to be thrown homeless on the world to-morrow, as some of you have
                  been; the work of your hand and the sweat that fell from your brows, and enriched
                  the lands, confiscated: still, take not a blind revenge on the heads of your
                  oppressors. Leave them to be justly dealt with by a God, who is all-wise, as well
                  as all-powerful. Will you promise me?"
               "We will, we will!" they cried, as one voice.
               "And now receive my last blessing"—every knee was bent to the floor, as if by
                  magic—"and when I am gone I ask you all to pray for me. Farewell! farewell!" he
                  sobbed, and, leaning on the curate's arm, he slowly tottered into the
                  Sacristy.
               The scene was indescribable as the beloved old priest left their
                  sight—forever!
               Arms were stretched out as if to hold him back. The most affectionate
                  ejaculations, in a language that is the richest in such of any ever spoken by man,
                  civilized or savage, rang through the
                  sacred edifice. Tears, those holy tokens of a genuine soul, those gems that adorn
                  the brow of humanity, rained from every eye; and a very tempest of grief, intense
                  as sudden, surged and swept through every bosom.
               Not until Father MacGuire came out of the Sacristy, and spoke to and reasoned with
                  them, did they rise from off their knees and take their departure.
               Though a night at an Irish wedding is a most tempting, enticing enjoyment, we
                  follow not the bridal party. Time and space conspire to rob us of that happiness;
                  which makes us sigh and say. Man finds but little to his mind in this old world of
                  ours.
               A full fortnight of the honeymoon is past, and still the cells are as full, and
                  the honey as sweet as when first tasted.
               Frank could not bear the idea of settling down on a farm convenient to "the old
                  people's." In all conscience, he had got enough of Irish landlordism to put him
                  out of all conceit with such a settlement for the future.
               Hence, he and his young wife agreed that the best thing they could do was to
                  emigrate to America, and Nellie determined to be with them. She had not trained
                  her heart yet to forgetfulness of the wild youth, Charley Friel—indeed, she had
                  not even tried to.
               Seeing this, Peter Bradley and Billy Curran put their heads together, and the
                  upshot of the confabulation was a resolve to sell out and go with "the young
                  people."
               "By gonnies! Billy," observed Peter, as the two sat smoking together, "but it is
                  great courage for you an' me to venthur to Ameriky in the declinin' av our days,
                  'To sail the wide ocean and wild stormy says,' as the song has it, not knowin' but
                  maybe the says would sink with us, an' then what would we do?"
               "True for you, Peter," nodded Billy, the smoke of his pipe weaving about his head
                  like the nimbus around St. Peter's in Paradise, "it is a mighty great venthur, an'
                  they say there is a dhreadful war in Ameriky now. Wee Jimmy O'Donnell wrote home
                  that Columbkille's prophesy was fulfilled—the father was fightin' aginst the son,
                  and the brother aginst the brother. God save poor Charley Friel! he was the
                  hot-headed boy, an' would go to the war in a minute—just as fast as he would go to
                  a fair or market."
               "But his father and mother are out there now, you know, an' they'll keep him out
                  av danger. But, in the name av all the saints in glory! what ails Condy Carre?
                  (Peter's servant boy). See him runnin' as if all the lunatics in the big madhouse
                  at Letthurkenny were after the boy's heels. Halloo! Condy, what's afthur bein' the
                  matthur?"
               "Ough! masthur dear, the vingeance of hiven has fallen on thim at last!" Condy
                  cried, fairly out of breath.
               "On' who, ye witless omadhaun av the world?"
               "On who? An' do you ask me on who?" cried Condy, looking contemptuously on his
                  master, who was so pitiably stupid as not to know whom he meant. "An' who else
                  would it be but on that main pillar av perdition, and that ridge-rafter of hell
                  itself, Adams and his son Bob?"
               "What has happened? what has happened, Condy?" exclaimed both.
               "Bob went out on the Lough in the boat to fish this morning, and he wasn't long
                  out when he tuck the fallin' sickness (epilepsy) an' fell out av the boat an' was
                  drowned. They're dredgin' the Lough for his body now."
               "Well," remarked Peter, solemnly, "we can't say 'God have mercy on him,' for it
                  would be only mockin' the Maker, blessed be His holy name!"
               "Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Condy, in derision, "it would be a likely prayer that! But
                  if his sowl got wet goin' out av this
                  world, it soon got dried and warmed in the next;" and with this remark Condy
                  turned on his heel and hurried back to his work.
               "See how soon Father Denis's words have come thrue," observed Peter, after both
                  had remained silent some minutes," and the vengeance of the Maker was not long
                  delayed, either."
               "Poor Father Denis—may the holy heavens be his bed!—did not last long afthur that
                  blessed day he married Frank and Mary, Peter. He died the next evenin', an' his
                  funeral was the largest that ever was in the parish."
               "It was," sighed Peter, "an' a good right it had to be. There'll never be his
                  likes in the parish again. Och, wirra stru? but
                  it was himself had the feelin' heart for the poor an' the helpless, an' the widow
                  an' the orphan. He gave them every blessed ha'penny he got; an' when he died, all
                  the money they found in his possession was a threepenny bit an' three ha'pence av
                  coppers in the pocket av an ould waistcoat."
               "Ay," remarked Billy, helping his friend to recount the good qualities of the
                  dead, "an' it was he always had the pleasant word an' the friendly smile for every
                  one."
               "Yes." Peter went on. "an' the harmless joke an' the hearty laugh. Many a time he
                  used to play his jokes on me an' laugh at me till the tears ran down his cheeks.
                  But he's gone now, an' may a hundred angels attend him in Paradise for all
                  eternity. Amen!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII
               THE LAST SCENES OF THIS STRANGE HISTORY.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Into a ward of the whitewashed walls,
                           Where the dead and the dying lay—
                           Wounded by bayonets, shells, and balls—
                           Somebody's darling was borne one day.
                           Somebody's darling! so young and so brave,
                           Wearing still on his pale, sweet face,
                           Soon to be hid in the dust of the grave,
                           The lingering lights of his boyhood's grace.
                           God knows best. He was somebody's love;
                           Somebody's heart enshrined him there;
                           Somebody wafted his name above,
                           Morn and night, on the wings of prayer.
                           Back from the beautiful, blue-veined face
                           Brush every wandering silken thread;
                           Cross his hands as a sign of grace—
                           Somebody's darling is still and dead.
                        
                     
                     MISS MARIE LACOSTS.
                  
               
               IN accordance with their resolution and arrangements for the future, Peter Bradley
                  and his friend, Billy Curran, disposed of their farms, crop, stock and furniture,
                  in the latter end of the October (1865) following Frank's marriage, and, with
                  bursting heart and tear-filled eyes, they and Mrs. Bradley, Nellie, Frank, and
                  Mary, bade a long and loving farewell to the gray mountains and verdant glens
                  within whose shelter and shadow they had dwelt from birth.
               The night before their departure for the Land of Promise in the West, the home of
                  the setting sun, Peter cautiously stole out, as if afraid he would be
                     questioned about where he was going.
                  He was soon joined outside by his brother in friendship, Billy, and they both
                  directed their steps for Gartan Lough. Going to drown themselves? Bless your
                  innocent soul, dear reader, not at all!
               There is a flag on the shore of this lough on which, old legends say, St. Columba,
                  or Columbkille, slept the night before he became an exile from his own dear Erin,
                  which he loved as well as mortal ever loved his native land. The legend goes on to
                  say that whoever sleep on that flag the night before they leave Ireland shall
                  never be troubled with home-sickness.
               Montalembert gives this legend in his life of St. Columba.
               "I would never live at all, Peter. unless I slept this night on the blessed
                  saint's bed."
               "Nor me. Billy. I would be dead before I knew anything at all about it. The young
                  people are different an' the old woman (Mrs. Bradley) would get her death av
                  cowld, so she may as well wait to die av thinkin' long," and Peter laughed
                  heartily.
               "'Tis death in any case for her, like the way they used to try the witches in
                  Scotland."
               "How was that. Peter?"
               "Why, man, did you never hear it?"
               "No."
               "Well, then. I'll tell you. There was, and is yet, you see, a great many witches
                  in Scotland (there is no doubt but Adams was begot between the devil—Lord save
                  us—an' one). an' they used to put some of them to death lest they would get too
                  plenty. The way they had for findin' out if an old woman was a witch, was this:
                  They took her out in a boat a great length in the say, an' threw her in. If the
                  old woman attempted to swim, she was surely a witch, an' they brought her to shore
                  an' burned her alive. If she didn't swim, but sank an' was drowned, then she was
                  no witch. But, you see, it was death all the same," and Peter laughed vociferously
                  at the ridiculous stupidity of the affair.
               
               "By the morthial man, Billy, but there's land at last!" cried Peter, standing on
                  the quarter-deck of an emigrant steamer as she ploughed up gallantly into New York
                  harbor, early one morning in November. "An' this is the blissed soil av Ameriky!"
                  he continued, in ecstasy, "where they say there are no landlords or bailiffs! Och,
                  whillaboloo! Billy dear, let me hug you to my heart, for shure I thought we'd
                  niver get off that dull, dirty, beast av an ocean! An' now see, here we are in the
                  holy lands av Ameriky, as I may say," and he hugged and hauled the less
                  enthusiastic Billy about, till, tripping against a coil of rope, they both, locked
                  together, rolled on the deck.
               Mary and Nellie and Mrs. Bradley, standing a little aside, were convulsed with
                  laughter at the ludicrous scene.
               Frank chanced to come on deck just then, and, laughing until the tears stood in
                  his eyes, he rushed to Billy's rescue.
               Peter got to his feet and gravely remarked:
               "I'm blissed, Billy, but you were near rowlin' me into the ocean, an' drownin' me.
                  But look." he continued, gazing around him, "what can all these ships an'
                  steamers, an' boats be about? See them goin' this way, an' that, an' the other. By
                  the sowl of the blissed St. Patrick, but they'll knock each other to bits, so they
                  will. Well, this is a great counthry, to be sure," he concluded, sagely, and went
                  below.
               There was no sickness, or epidemic among the passengers, and so they were allowed
                  to land without delay.
               
               Numbers of them were received on shore by friends who had come to meet them.
               Among those was a poor, but clean and good-looking young woman with three children
                  hanging to her skirts, and cuddling close to her in childish terror of the strange
                  and confused scene around them.
               She was received by a man of giant proportions, who lifted her off her feet, and
                  hugged her to his heart, till it would appear as if his intention was to squeeze
                  her to death. He then took up each of the children in his arms by turn, and
                  embraced them with what we might call the cruelty of affection.
               Peter Bradley was standing near looking on, and his eyes danced with delight, for
                  he knew the big man was a husband and father who was thus embracing the beloved
                  ones whom he was forced by bitter necessity to leave behind, and whom he had not
                  seen for perhaps, many years.
               "Look, Peter," said Billy Curran, coming up, and directing Peter's attention to
                  the lines of masts along the wharves, "see how close the masts are along there,
                  they are almost as thick as the trees in Glenveigh."
               At the mention of Glenveigh, the big man turned round abruptly, and looked at them
                  with an eye of interest. After a moment his look fell on the box against which
                  Peter leant, and on the side of it, in large white letters, he saw the name "Peter
                  Bradley."
               He went forward to them, and eagerly inquired if that box belonged to Peter, and
                  if he knew anything of Glenveigh.
               "It's myself that should," replied Peter, "seein' that I am one of the victims av
                  the monsthur Adams. But I needn't mention his name, for you can't know anything of
                  him. Yes, this box is mine, an' that's my name on it," he concluded.
               "I am very glad to meet and know you," returned the stranger, grasping Peter's
                  hand and squeezing it heartily. "But you are mistaken: I do know something of
                  Adams, and of Glenveigh. I am the man who escaped out of the 'black-hole' at
                  Churchill, with Charley Friel, who was my good angel."
               "Blessed Heaven!" exclaimed Peter, grasping the both hands of our old
                  acquaintance. Pat Kennedy, and shaking them vigorously, "an' are you the man?
                  There was great talk, entirely, about you an' Charley, when you got away. I
                  believe Leitrim—the baste of badness—was in an awful rage when he heard you were
                  away clean out of his clutches. I must run an' tell Nellie. She will be glad to
                  see you, or any one that was such a comrade of Charley's as you were. But how is
                  the wild, witless boy?"
               "You and your friends must come with me for this night, and I'll tell you all our
                  fortunes and adventures when we get home," he returned, evasively. "Get them all
                  together now, till we be going."
               Peter hastened away to impart his happy intelligence to the others, and the big
                  man turned on his foot suddenly. With a smothered sigh, on rather, groan, the
                  words "poor Charley" escaped his lips, and he brushed away the rising tears from
                  his eyes.
               "Now," said Peter, as they all sat in Pat Kennedy's apartment in a private street
                  in New York, "wilt you fulfil your promise, and tell us all your adventures and
                  everything about Charley?"
               "All is easily told," returned Pat, sadly. "We got safe here, and found things
                  just bad enough. The war was raging at its fiercest, and there was little to be
                  got to do. They could not draft us into the army, as we were not citizens, but
                  necessity often pressed us hard to join the ranks. I had close watching on
                  Charley, but he slipped me at last. The fame of the Irish Brigade was echoing
                  through the land. I came into the boarding-house ing-house where we were stopping one evening, after
                  being out the most of the day looking for something to do, and found a note which
                  Charley had left for me. Here it is," and he pulled out a worn slip of paper
                  almost cut across in the folds; "I will read it:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "'PAT, MY DEAR OLD BOY.—I go at last, and my object in going is
                              threefold. First, to help to guard and preserve intact this glorious
                              Republic. Second, to learn to draw a sword in the cause of the dear
                              old land. Third, to win fame for our race.
                           "'You have watched me long, but I have slipped the leash at last on
                              you.
                           "'For liberty, fame, and fortune—a noble triumvirate—hurra!
                           
                              "'Banath Iath! my dear Boy.
                              "'CHARLEY.'
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "He was gone. I never saw him after—or, rather, I have not seen him since," he
                  hastily corrected, observing Nellie turn deadly pale at the significance of his
                  words.
               "I stopped on about New York here," he continued, "and tried to do the best I
                  could: but that was bad: indeed. I could barely support myself. And I was worrying
                  my very life out thinking of Sally here (his wife) and the children, and being
                  able to send them no help.
               "At last, I went into a store one day to see if I could get anything to do at
                  lumbering. I offered to work for any wages, but there was nothing for me. There
                  was a gentleman standing talking to the 'boss,' and he turned to me and asked if I
                  would go to the war as a substitute. He offered me one thousand dollars. I was
                  desperate. I wavered a moment. I thought of the wife here and the childer,"
                  looking at them tenderly, "and I was going to refuse. But then I thought I might
                  as well be dead as living, and able to send them no assistance.
               "I embraced the offer," and it turned out very lucky. The company I belonged to
                  had only got to Washington when the news of Lee's surrender thrilled the soul of
                  the nation with a wild joy such as it never knew before, and chased the war-cloud
                  from its brow.
               "I returned to New York and paid the passages of Sally and the childer. I would
                  have gone home for them, but that I wanted to go out West to find some place to
                  make a home for my family."
               "Faith, an' it was well you didn't." Peter remarked, "for if you had Lord Leitrim
                  would have nailed you!"
               They all laughed heartily.
               "But where should I happen to wander in the West," Pat resumed, "but to a
                  settlement called Glenveigh! They are all your old neighbors and fellow-victims
                  who are in it. It was there I first met Charley Friel's father and mother, and it
                  was they who first told me of Charley's death."
               Pat hastened to again correct himself, but it was too late. Nellie had fainted
                  away, and fallen to the floor, before any of them could catch and support her.
               She was gently borne out of the room by the women, and restoratives applied.
               "Was he killed instantly?" Frank asked in a husky voice, after a painful
                  pause.
               "No. He was badly wounded in battle—got half-a-dozen or more bullets in him, and
                  was almost hacked to pieces by sword and bayonet wounds. He was brought to the
                  hospital, where he lingered in fearful pain for three weeks, and finally
                  died."
               It was arranged that all would go out West with Pat Kennedy and his family, to
                  join the settlement of their old friends and fellow-victims of Adams' infernal
                  cruelty.
               The delicate, even alarming, state of Nellie's health kept them in New York one
                  day after another till a month had expired, and then she detained them no
                  longer.
               She was sleeping her long, last sleep in the very extensive sive and beautiful Greenwood Cemetery, at the
                  outskirt of Brooklyn.
               Little more remains to be told.
               The voyagers arrived safely at the new settlement, and were enthusiastically
                  received. They are all, the new settlers as well as the old settlers, as well off
                  now in 
                     the the
                     the
                   comforts of this world as they could wish.
               Is there anything else you would wish to know?
               Well, we will tell it; for we are not a bit ashamed to let the world
                  know it. Two of the dearest most lovable little toddlers that ever man or woman
                  hugged to his or her heart, play about and pluck the gentle Mary's dress, and lisp
                  "mamma" in such a provoking way that they would make the fiercest female advocate
                  of "Woman's Rights" in the United States kiss them!
               And the good Mrs. Bradley, the grandmother, who doats on those two dear buds,
                  assured us. lately, that there was an immediate prospect of a third. Whereupon
                  Peter winked at us, and grumbled something about being "threatened with trouble
                  number three," but we did not believe he was in earnest.
               Peter is as fond of a joke as ever. It was only the other day he astonished Billy
                  Curran by declaring that the man in the moon was a real live American—in fact, the
                  American Minister at the Court of Heaven!
               "For," said Peter, "you see this almighty republic, the pride av the earth and the
                  peer av the republic av Paradise itself, could not do without a representative at
                  that Court, seein' that so many American citizens put in a sudden—more sudden than
                  respectable—appearance before it, and unless there was some one there to get them
                  their 'rights,' they would all turn back in disgust, and overcrowd the country
                  with their indignant ghost-ships. There was a telegram sent from Washington to St.
                  Peter to have a suburban villa prepared right away for our Minister, and to send
                  down the statement of costs to be laid before the Senate for six weeks' debate on
                  it.
               "St. Peter appointed the moon as the gentleman's residence, and
                  telegraphed down that the costs  nothing, as the Court of Heaven had
                  long been anxious to do some such little act of favor to the
                  only almighty nation upon earth, and hoped the Senate would kindly take it as
                  such.
               "Upon this there was six months' 'orating,' twelve reams of foolscap covered with
                  resolutions, ninety-six dinners eaten, and one hundred and twenty balls given at
                  the White House."
               A few words more, and our history is written.
               The dashing Dora Rane, immediately after Bob's death, ran off with our old
                  acquaintance, Hill, to Dublin, and soon ran off from him again. We heard a rumor,
                  but won't vouch for its accuracy, that she came to America, and is, under an
                  assumed name, one of the brightest stars of the Freelove and Woman's Rights
                  movements.
               Father MacGuire is now a parish priest, and the very soul of the Tenant-Right
                  agitation now going on so earnestly, so manfully, in old historic Donegal.
               The last we heard of Adams is, that he had gone to travel on the Continent, and
                  was, three months ago, lying unable to move at a hotel in Venice, his unwieldy and
                  corrupt body fast becoming literally eaten away by a combination of the most
                  loathsome diseases.
               The Doctor still lives and has good health, and Brian Boru is able to carry him
                  yet. He has changed his favorite song, though, he now hums— 
                     
                        "The days are gone when beauty bright
                        My heart's chain wove;"
                     
                   and he never prolongs it more than the two lines. But, then, it was a rule of
                  his life never to sing more than two lines of any song.
               Nancy Ward is hale and hearty. Her husband has returned from "making his fortune,"
                  and they now live
                  ive arbly. The little fellow who shot the sergeant is
                     the pride of his father's heart, and promises to be a
                     rling man.
               As for the estimable Mrs. Eliza Campbell, the defunct Bob's quondam courtesan, she
                  continued to live in the glen with her husband, who did become the
                  chief man for Adams in Grierson's place, for a year and over. Naturally enough,
                  the people proper of the neighborhood were exasperated almost beyond endurance at
                  her for the atrocious perjury by which, to please her paramour, she did her dead
                  best to consign an innocent man to a murderer's fate. It would be nothing to
                  wonder at if some of them should lay violent hands on her, and she feared such.
                  But as it was in the character of witness for the Crown that she excited the
                  hatred and ill-will of her neighbors, the government would protect her. Two
                  policemen were allowed her as a body-guard, and out of doors she never went
                  without them. However, by the force of public opinion, the government was forced
                  to withdraw such protection. All it then could do for its pet and protege, Eliza,
                  was to offer herself and husband a free transit to Australia, which, as a dernier ressort, was accepted. They went in the
                  ill-fated ship "London," which, it will be remembered, foundered on the voyage,
                  and with which Brooke, the resplendent star of the stage, perished, a couple of
                  years since. Of course Eliza perished too.
               So may it ever be with all of her kind, is our prayer this stormy night which fast
                  approacheth morning, and we think it good—sufficient to ensure us a safe sleep.
                  Good-night!
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
