
    ----CITATION----
        Floyd, Mary Faith.. The Nereid .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6455
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            The Nereid
             
                THE NEREID  BY  MARY FAITH FLOYD.  MACON, GEORGIA: J. W. BURKE & COMPANY, PUBLISHERSE. 1871.     Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1871, by J. W. BURKE & COMPANY, In the office of the Librarian of Congress.   THE NEREID:   BY MARY FAITH FLOYD.   PREFACE. The author of the following pages presents a picture of life on the Atlantic seaboard of the Southern United States as it existed anterior to the late great ' Rebellion." The red mine of War and Bloodshed which recent writers have so thoroughly "developed" has not been entered. The literary taste of the day, in all sections of the Union, is sated with the Scandinavian drafts of horrors already quite lavishly proffered by historians and novelists in the skulls of their enemies. Whosoever expects to find in the following pages elements of political sectionalism, reli- gious dogmatism,irreligious free-thinking, philo- sophic theorizings, or doctrines of woman's rights (so-called), political or otherwise, may proceed at once in its perusal, being sure of obtaining a merited reward. But better pleased, perhaps, will be the reader who contents himself with a. faithful portraiture of that refitied phase of life that ex- isted fifteen years ago, among the highly-p61- ished and educated'inhabitants of the Southern seaboard. That phase has been blotted out forever by the rude hand of War. But the picture acquires more of historic interest the farther the changing present bears us onward from the fixed and immutable Past. One word of explanation and apologyv: For the convenience of the harrator, the yellow- fever scene in the tenth chapter has been lo- cated at Brunswick. The writer was a witness of its ravages, and a sufferer therefrom, at another place on the Georgia seaboard; and at' the time of writing the following pages, she supposed Brunswick, too, had suffered, But she learns that she was mistaken, and that Brunswick has never been visited by this or any other destructive epidemic. 1   CHAPTER I. In London, on a damp, foggy morning a group of sailors stood in Trafalgar Square ex- amining admiringly the elegant Corinthian shaft erected in honor of Lord Nelson. Their earn- est gaze ranged along the lofty fluted column from the colossal figure of the hero in bronze which surmounts it down to its pedestal, animated with numerous figures of life size in alto relievo:; and then their vision mounted aloft again, as' the glory of the noon-day sun broke momentarily through the fog, illuminating the Great Admiral's mute figure with a halo typical of the splendor of his fame. While these tempest-tossed sons of Neptune were ex- patiating on the gallant Nelson, whom they re- garded as peculiarly their own, a man ap- proached them from West Strand. Touching one of the group on the shoulder in a familiar manner, he asked if he or any one of them had observed a; well-dressed man pass, with a dark, scowling face, heavy beard, and fierce, pene- trating eyes. The sailor thus accosted was about to shake him off as an intruder when, looking up, he perceived that the speaker wore also the garb of a seaman. "Glad to see you, my mate, since you are one of our craft. I have no liking for land crabs. I think such a one as you describe walked tup the Mall in company with another fellow." "Thank you.  I will hand any one this doubloon if he will assist me in overtaking the villain." Ready for any adventure, several men volun- teered to go in pursuit, and started in a brisk walk into Pall Mall and proceeded thence up Regent street. ' There! those two men in black are the     persons we saw," and our first speaker darted T forward into a run which brought them to in a c precipitate manner. The sailor seized the taller e gentleman roughly by, the collar, exclaiming, a "At last, villain, I have overtaken you I r Stand!" At this juncture, looking up, he dis- e covered that the gentleman was entirely a dif- s ferent person from the one he sought. "Excuse-really I mistook you for another l person," said the tar in an embarrassed man- ner." I ask a thousand pardons, sir."  s "Take care in future how you give a gentle-  man such an unfriendly grip. My shoulder aches now from the pressure of thy unmannerly c fingers," he added, smiling at the sailor's  abashed face. Throwing him a guinea, the t gentleman said to his conipanion, "Come, l Paul, let us return home," and they continued some distance up Regent street and entered l Portland Place, where they disappeared into a e magnificent brick house.         E Left to himself the pursuing sailor felt rather chagrined at the turn his adventure had taken. Picking up the guinea he turned it mechanically in his fingers, saying, "I will keep this as a memento of this day's folly. Ha! ha! I seem to have cast anchor instead of heaving in sight of the rogue. I have followed him in all quar- ters of the world, as yet without success, but no mortal ever yet escaped the determined and  "Patient search and vigil long Of him who treasures up a wrong." Often have I been within an hoar, yea, a minute of him. I will find him yet, and wreak vengeance as the reward of his villainies. Walking back, he met the sailors who had started to aid his search and whom he had out- stripped in the race. The men declared they were drier than potsherds, proposing to the owner of the doubloon that they should take grog together. He assented, and they set out for somb tap-room, arm in arm, with all the intimacy of old associates. In a magnificently furrished library, with lofty shelves of costly books' artistically arranged in their mahogany- casings, sat two gentlemen. The one had passed the prime of early man- hood; but there was none of the austerity of deportment which maturity often brings. There was an 'elegant polish, a genial suavity, pervad- ing every act, and his enlightened conver- sation betokened (the highest culture of an in- tellect originally bright. The other was a youth just entering manhood; tall, slender, delicate looking,-with a lofty forehead, large, spiritual black eyes, and glossy black curls.   The other features were plain; but the whole combination was good. A slight down dark- ened the short upper lip, and Paul Ravenel at twenty was almost handsome. He ar- rived in London the previous day and was enjoying a short walk on the far-famed Regent street, when he, with his friend and protector, Mr. Howard, had been so unceremoniously halted by the impetuous sailor. " What do you think of London, or, I should say, the atom of it you have seen, Paul," asked Mr. Howard. "It is far beyond every thing I ever imagined or conceived," replied Paul. "When I reached New York, I thought I had been transported to another sphere; but this half of the sphere bewildered me entirely." "We must spend days in visiting our promi- nent places; though I think none more inter- esting than the monument to our gallant Nel- son we saw this morning." "There are many places I have a greater de- sire to see; St. Paul's,' Westminster, the' Tower; in short, I wish to look at every work of art, especially paintings." At the mention, of the last works, Paul's eyes sparkled with a' peculiar brilliancy, showing how deeply inter- ested he was in this glorious profession. Mr. Howard smiled at his companion's enthu- siasm on this subject, for he was generally shy, sensitive and reserved. "Come Paul," he said rising, "I have -a few specimens from the pencils of. the old masters. Would you like to look at these for a begin- ning?" "Yes, sir," he replied, rising also. Mr. Howard led. the way into a long lofty room with delicate peach-colored walls, hung with magnificent paintings, and adorned with X statues Which borrowed a flesh colored tint from the ceilings. "We will examine my collection, and you. shall tell me of your journey across-the Atlan- tic. I should like to hear your history from early childhood to the present time; and I may reciprocate. Is it a fair exchange?" and the - two walked around the gallery. Paul looked f with delight on each painting, and after linger- eing sometime among the statues the gentlemen - returned to the library. "The relation of your life would more than - repay, sir; for mine has been passed in com- a parative obscurity, and there is nothing worthy , of note in it to describe. To relate the last , part first, I will remark that I always had a 3. passion for the sea and the voyage from Char-   leston to New York was most agreeable ;' thence to London delighted me. It surpassed all my expectations." "You were not sea sick then," said Mr. Howard. "I was too good a sailor for that. My ear- liest recollections are connected with this ele- ment; but I will describe my sensations on this subject in a later part of my narrative." "My mother miarried my father when she was quite young against the consent of her friends. He was the only son of fond and wealthy par- ents. His nature was cheerful to gaiety; his person was handsome, and he was a great sportsman. Mother was sedate, and early in life imbibed sentiments of religion. Her rel- atives supposed there would be very little con- geniality between persons differing so widely in characteristics; but the marriage proved very' happy," "My Grandfather portioned his son liberally on his marriage, and with care the property could have been increased to wealth.' "But like all persons brought up in luxury and accustomed to the gratification of every wish, my father had no idea of the value of rhoney, nor could he realize that such princely style did not suit his lessened possessions. Like all Southern gentlemen in the United States, he regarded hospitality as one of the cardinal virtues. There are always myriads of parasites in society ready to fall, vamnpire like, on any generous, liberal man'; and these were not wanting to gather about my father in the garb" of- genuine friends. He was killed by being thrown from his horse on a hunting ex- pedition when I was six years old. When the demands of creditors were satisfied nothing was left us but our cottage house." "Was the place at which I met you always your home?' asked Mr. Howard.' -"No, sir. We first lived in Georgia. My sister and I were both born there. We were the only children of our parents. They re- moved to a place near the St. John's River in Florida when I was an infant. I remember very little of my father except as one who petted me and gave me sweetmeats. My mother, af- ter my father's death, was dependent on my grandfather for everything. She was a woman of great pride of character and the claims of poverty were galling to her proud spirit. My grandfather was liberal; but men are thought- less, and there are many things which we are I deprived of when we are subject to the will of a ,another to grant or Withhold them. Blanche c   ' was beautiful aund gay, and the idol of her grandfather." "I remember her," said Mr. Howard. "She must be handsomer now, developed into wo- manhood." "Yes, sir, Grandfather gave her every advan- tage, and she is now a very fine looking, accom- plished woman, with throngs of admirers. I remember one day discovering in an old trun!. a colored engraving of Washington cross- ing the Delaware. The officers; the men cross- ing the swollen river with its floating ice; the snow falling. and the frightened horses-all de- lighted me. I ran to my mother for an expla- nation. '  "Was that your first awakening to the taste for drawing?" inquired Mr. Howard. "No, sir, I tried to copy the pictures I saw in the spelling books; and to'depict any objects about the house that happened to impress my fancy. But this picture, and my mother's his- tory of it, interested me deeply and was the first spur to ambition. She encouraged me, although I had no materials save a pencil and paper. I thought if I cpuld only make a sketch like this I should be famous; with my childish vision I considered the picture of Washington and his soldiers the perfection of the, art. I wrought industriously and made many failures. I became a great shipbuilder on paper, but to fashion the water puzzled my little fingers. One day I had almost completed a boat in a rough sea much to my mother's satisfaction. AWhile she was complimenting it, and pacifying -my discontent at my inability to depict each wave to my notion, my grandfather came into the room. With a great deal of motherly pride my mother asked his opinion of the sketch and expatiated on my genius. The practical old man told me my picture resembled more a horse trough than a boat, that I was idleing away time, tied to my mother's apron string like a sickly girl; and he read a lecture to her for making such a baby of her only son. Never shall I forget my mortification. I was shy, sensitive, and proud. To be ridiculed, and have my poor efforts at an art which I wor- shiped to a passion so roughly criticized, wounded me deeply. I could scarcely suppress the rebellious tears which rose to overflowing in my eyes, and which, had I not done, would have verified the assertion that I was a weak baby. Gathering up my unfortunate drawings, I rushed out of the house and remained until almost dark, when my mother came in search' of me."'  /     "Was your picture the same which attracted my attention?" inquired Mr. Howard. "'The identical one, I believe. It took all my mother's influence to pursuade me to continue drawing. 'Are you so weak, Paul?' she asked, 'as to yield up a priniciple or an occupation which is founded on right, because you are rid- iculed? Life is a battle, field, and there are many hard fights, and tremendous obstacles for the young soldiers to encounter, before they win the victor's crown. You must wear the armor of endurance, and buckle on the breast plate of firmness, with the shield of patience at your side, if you would conquer. Your grandfather does not mean to wound you. It is common for persons devoid of talent in any particular vein, to be unappreciative of that art or calling.' I felt ashamed of my weakness and promised to resume my work, and I Im- proved the offensive sketch." "Just before I saw you, my grandfather took sister and myself to Charleston, where he went each year to purchase necessary supplies after the sale of his crop." "We had lived in seclusion up to that time. I think our cottage embowered in trees on a gentle ascent, from the river which was some distance off, was one of the most isolated places I ever saw." "It was a beautiful spot. I remember dis- tinctly what a haven of rest it seemed to me on that stormy day," said Mr. Howard. "There was a romantic creek between our place and grandfather's, and beside it an unfin ished two story wooden building, thatched with palmettos for a roof. I delighted to stroll there alone and dream of the sea, and wonder if I ever could make a painter, and leave a name on the roll of honor like the' masters mother read to me about. Mr. Howard laughed. "The germ of ambi- tion, Paul, has it flourished and increased in dimensions since then? Tell me of your grand- father's household too." "I will as I proceed. I am still ambitious; but my opinion of my own powers is much more humble than it was in boyhood. I had an aversion to going to Charleston. I disliked strangers and felt timid amid a throng. And, to my shame be it said, I had no love for my grandfather, a noble old man with a rough ex- terior. I am unforgiving. I treasured up the memory of his remarks on my picture, which still rankled deep and made me avoid him. I would have declined to go but mother insisted on it. Sister, mercurial and fashionable, was   wild with glee at the prospect of seeing the world and enjoying its society, hitherto known only from novel reading." "A very general kind of knowledge among American women, I understand," said Mr. Howard in a laughing way, "though M. De Tocqueville pays them a handsome compliment when he says, if he were asked to what Ameri- ca owed her 'singular prosperity and growing strength,' he would reply, 'to the superiority of her women.' "7 "I regret to admit that your remarks about novel reading is just. It is almost the only in- formation the mass of the female sex in my country ever acquire, although there are many noble exceptions," replied Paul seriously. "I presume it is natural to young persons to relish light reading, and most mothers feel no preju- dice at having their daughters pursue the same road they themselves traveled to the successful haven of matrimony." "Well done, Paul," laughingly said his friend, "I see you are a great moralist at twenty." "I owe all my good ideas on this point,"' said Paul, "to my excellent, discerning mother. Had it not been for her patient training, I should have been more giddy brained than I am at present. We spent a week in prepara- tion, and on the day of departure we went to my grandfather's ]place. There we got aboard one of those handsome boats I had so often watched steam up or down the river. Sister was very talkative, and asked grandfather a thousand questions. I sat silent, looking at the passengers, and the white track of foam which the vessel left behind; growing less and more faint in the distance, and sparkling like fire at night. My untaught mind strove to find a reason for the million water diamonds which flashed and glowed so brightly under the starlit heavens. I fancied it must be a gala night among the fairies and they were skimming the waters with their luminous wings and costly gems,' like sportive sea gulls." "You should have been a poet, Paul," said Mr. Howard, as he listened to the narrative of his young' friend, and looked admiringly on his handsome exterior. "I love poetry, but I cannot write it." "'Have you given much attention to studies connected with Natural History?" inquired Mr. Howard. "No-or, rather, the merest smattering," re- plied Paul. "The luminous glow of wave-crests in your trans-Atlantic Southern seas," said Mr. How- //   ard, is caused by the presence of myriads of minute phosphorescent animals (the feduse Cyanece, and innumerable hosts of infusoria) which emit light on the same principle as the fire-fly, or, at least, on a principle very simi- lar." "Do you speak of our fire-fly in the Southern States of America-or the 'lightning -bug,' as it is not inaptly termed in common parlance? What is its scientific name?" asked Paul. "I believe," replied Mr. Howard, "it is the Elater noctilucus. I have not examined the subject carefully, and I am not very profound in Entomology. Certainly that is the fire-fly so numerous in the tropical regions of South America, where I have seen night's blackness gorgeously adorned with its millions of lucent flashes every moment. I remember, when in South America, to have been impressed with the power of Mrs. Hemans' genius, who, with- out ever having visited South America, gives in the concluding stanzas of her best poem, "The Forest Sanctuary," such a graphic, and faithful picture of that region even to the 'sparkles of the fire-flies' light. I thought of Mrs. Hemans' allusion when I was 'at your mother's house in Florida,' and saw at night the luminous waves flashing with the phospho- resence of one superabounding form of life, and the damp warm night air in continual illu- mination with another." "Your remarks," said Paul, "remind me of a most eloquent passage of Humboldt in his Views of Nature, a copy of which I read with absorbing interest, as I crossed the Atlantic. Says the author, 'In the ocean, gelatinous sea- worms, living and dead, shine like luminous stars, converting-by their phosphorescent light the green surface of the ocean into one vast sheet of fire. 'Indelible is the impression left on my mind by those calm tropical nights of the Pacific, where the constellation of Argo in its zenith and the setting Southern Cross, pour their mild planetary light through .the ethereal azure of the sky, 'while dolphins mark the foaming waves with their luminous furrows.'" "Very beautiful!" exclaimed Mr. Howard, "I think, Paul, you are by nature a poet, not- withstanding your disclaimer. But the trans- lators evidently mistake in styling the light of Argo Navis and The Southern Cross 'plane- tary.' Humboldt's German text scarcely has it thus: such, at least, is my recollection of the original". "Your art is intimately allied to poetry." continued Mr. Howard, after a brief pause,   "Perhaps you never experimented to test your powers in that capacity." "I have scribbled a little ryhme occasionally, but it is meagre in every respect, and I amr con- vinced that my talent, if I have any, is not in that vein. I fear I weary you with my narra-- tive. " "I am deeply interested. We have nothing to do. Continue until dinner, and resume af- terward. To-morrow we will drive out and visit some interesting places." "We reached Charleston safely. Sister was invited to stay with one of grandfather's friends, a very fashionable lady who gave a large party for us. Blanche was magnificently attired, and the centre of attraction. How radiant she looked, with her beautiful face, her luxuriant darks curls, and her jewels sparkling in the gas lights! I was comparatively unnoticed, with my great eyes and plain sallow face. The sights were new, and the music from the harps transported me in imagination to fairy land. The last day of our stay, I accompanied my grandfather and sister in a shopping excursion. The time consumed in selecting the et cetera of a lady's ward-robe was very irksome to me; but finally we went to a bookstore. Upon the shelves, and hung on the wall, were some handsome landscape paintings in oil, many of them rural scenes. I had never before looked on anything half so beautiful. Some time was occupied by grandfather in se- lecting books. Casting my eyes to a shelf I saw several fine boxes. A clerk who had ob- served my absorption in the landscapes, seeing me look to the shelf, took down the cases and ex- hibited to my eager gaze several paint boxes. At this moment grandfather said, 'Paul your sister has been buying finery all the morning, is there nothing you wish? Speak out like a man, my boy; woild you like to have a pres- ent for yourself and one to take to your mother?" I answered timidly, "Yes, Sir, I would like this box of paints, grandfather." The old man's face darkened. 'Fie! Paul,. this is a girl's plaything. Always moping and. scrib- bling!, No, sir! I cannot encourage you by purchasing such a toy. Get a book for your mother, and I will buy yoa a fine knife.'" "I had been carried away, after I was bold enough to begin my request, by the ardent de- sire to possess a paint box; but this repulse before strangers was more than I could bear. All my hopes were crushed and I could scarce- ly repress tears. Fortunately the officious clerk, who smelt with a keen and instructive     scent the odor of wealth around my grand- father, diverted attention from .me by declaring the boxes were -the very best articles, and the young gentleman really ought to have one.' 'Pshaw  show me some books.' The poor clerk put aside his boxes with an air scarce less disappointed than mine, and turned to the ' books. Grandfather would have given me the box, but he really thought he was doing me a kindness in repressing what he considered a most effeminate taste, pernicious to any youth. He bought a handsome book for mother and an elegant knife for me but I was too much of- fended to appreciate either of them, or the kindness which prompted their purchase." "As well try to force water up hill as oblit- erate a predominant talent in a human being," said Mr. Howard. At this juncture the conversation was inter- rupted by a visit from Mr. Howard's' banker with important news. The Government was about to engage in a war with the great Russian Colossus, whose power since the days of Peter the Great, had spread over the earth until it was a terror to the nations. That giant Power had been in deadly grapple with the "sick man" as the enfeebled nationality of the Otto- man was facetiously, and flippantly styled. The heroisni with which the great Moslem leader, Omar Pacha, had withstood the torrent of Muscovite invaders along the line of, the Dan- ube, had almost created the belief among the great Western Powers that the "sick man" was able to help himself; and one eilvironed with difficulties, and competent to ejxtricate himself, is always sure to receive aid from oth- ers in his extrication. The secret information- had been gleaned from the Government by Mr. Howard's confidential banker and friend, that England would certainly join Turkey in the unequal contest, early in the spring of 1854, and probably the French Emperor would join the alliance. The news was important to Mr. Howard. A large portion of his capital was invested in gov- ernment securities; and action incident to the important effect of a gigantic foreign war on government stocks was but the requirement of a common sagacity. Mr. Howard was long closeted with the banker; and for several days afterward was bus- ied with transactions pertaining to his finan- cial interests. He explained to Paul briefly, and not very distinctly, that business affairs of grave moment would demand all of his time for a few days. The young man, thus left to   himself, passed his time pleasantly among the books and paintings of his kind patron; and the evenings were even sweetened by Mr. How- ard's benign presence, if but for a short time, and by the expression of some kind words. So soon as Mr. Howard was relieved from i his pressurle of business, he proposed taking 'Paull'to places of note and 'appointed the fol- lowing day. "Are you excitable Paul? asked Mr. hIoward, "if so, I deem it wise to show you the most interesting objects London affords befogre you aie placed under masters to pursue your studies." "I am  an enthusiast on a few subjects, thouigh this quality may have been latent here- tofore and become developed by seeing the an- tiquities of the city." Mr. Howard took Paul first to St. James' Palace,; then to Buckingham Palace, more modern, but its long gallery of pictures at- tracted Paul greatly. Whitehall, with its Pal- ladian, architecture was magnificent. Its painted ceilings by the celebrated Rubens were wonderful to Paul. Mr. Howard enjoyed his young friend's en- thusiastic delight at witnessing things hereto- fore known to him only from reading. The Tower, with its historic interest clustered all over it, called forth the greatest admiration. Paul found himself traveling back centuries, to the time when kings, queens, statesmen and warriors were incarcerated within its gloomy walls, many of them to be released only by death from the noisome dungeon. , So much time was occupied with comparatively a cursory glance at thsee places that Mr. Howard prom- ised his young friend on future occasions to visit repeatedly the Tower and other places.. Another day they went to look at the magnifi- cent temple of St. Paul, designed by Sir Chris- topher Wren. Among the most interesting monuments there to Paul were those of Dr. Johnson and Sir Joshua Reynolds. Lord Nel- son and the Duke of Wellington sleep beneath the dome of this wounderful cathedral, and Paul felt as if he could wander within its solemn walls for days without weariness. On their return home, Mr. Howard asked Paul to resume his history, "Really, my dear friend, everything relating to self appears so insignificant that I should find the conclusion of my poor narrative very insipid." "But Paul these sights are common to me, I grew up with them constantly in view; and the events of your life are new and interesting. Gratify me by resuming." X     ,   Paul thus pressed could not avoid obliging his kind host, and somewhat reluctantly began. "Soon after our return home from Charles- ton, you came to our house. I shall never for- get this great era in my life. I was a sad child, loving solitude. The day was gloomy, The wind howled mournfully around the house, and the music from an Aollan harp some one had placed in a window sounded like the wail' of a departed spirit. I went up stairs to look at the river, which I knew was tossed into foam-cap ped waves by the wind. I had not been long at the window before I descried your little boat. Oh, with what eagerness did I gaze on the tiny bark, as she breasted the angry waters! I thought you would be lost in the dangerous St. John's. Sister came tip stairs while I was there, and we both watched nervously and anx iously the boat, until you reached the shore. It is a terrible feeling to behold fellow beings almost in,Death's fell grasp without the power to aid them. I felt all this, child as I was; and as you reached the shore, I uttered inwardly an ejaculation of thanks to God for saving you. I love the sea, and drowning is said to be an easy death i but oh, it must be an awful thing without warning to be swallowed up in the dark abyss of waters!" Wfrs this a prophetic shud- der that crept through Paul Ravenel as he sat in Mr. Howard's elegant library, their favorite 1 resort? "We did come-near being engulphed that 1 day; and'I shall never forget your noble moth- E er's hospitality, and her gentle kindness to the I strangers." "I felt very timid," continued Paul, "at V being summoned to the parlor to show yol my i drawings. But you appeared so considerate in s your attentions, that you very soon won my confidence, and I felt as if you were an old it friend." "Do you know, Paul, I had the same sense s of attraction to you? You reminided me of my ft only lost boy; and since 'then, though years have passed, your eyes, with their pensive, ex- g pression, recurred to me frequently. " s"And your visit, sir, was to me a bright beam tn of light which shed its lustre over the dreamy fi moments which would steal around me. Your il promise to send me a paint box, I regarded as m sacred, and my fraith in it never wavered." er "As winter, with her white frosty robes, gave oi place to g'aily dressed spring in her garb of sun- w shine and flowers, and her singing birds and w chattering parrots, I felt an unwonted buoyancy sp of spirit. A new star of hope arose on iby at   ng horizon to guide me, and cheer me. Time n. moved on, and despondency dropped her man- s- 'tie around me when expectation was extended r- infto long months. Midsummer with her fruits 1, and harvests passed-by, and Autumn with her ie blue sky and sadly sighing breezes, came to d glad the eye and whisper of that immortality d and expansion that even children feel and long a for as 'they look into the deep mysterious dome e of heaven, and languish to know all about the - great God who created them." "Did you not lose your trust in your stranger e friend who kept you so long in durance?" asked n   Mr. Howard. ! Never! Mother, fearing my melancholy s would affect my feeble health said promises swere not often kept, especially when made to children. Or perhaps you Were dead." "No," I said, "he has not forgotten; 'nor is 3 he dead. He will send the box." Finally the rpackage came, posted ]Jondon, accompanied by, your letter. My eager, emaciated fingers trembled so-that I could not untie the cords, and mother assisted me. I did not speak for a long time. My heart was full of thankful grat- itude to you. 'Mother wept tears of delight that her boy would at last have an opening to exercise what she called my genius." "Sister was sent to Charleston to complete her education, and a tutor was provided for me. I did not like Mr. Glynn. He was very kind, but between us there was no affinity; and a nameless something inspired in me distrust of him. I studied resolutely and closely, urged on by aan ambitious mother. All my leisure was devoted to painting. My box became a household god to me, as revered'as those zneis so carefully preserved in his flight from Troy." "Mother thought my improvement great, but it did not satisfy me. The specimens fell so very far short of my conceptions that I was subject to constant mortification. My yearning for advantages-for action-increased with years, and seriously affected my health. I grew thin and had a cough." "At this time, sister, who was, enjoying all the gaieties of city life which her indulgent friends permitted to the detriment of mental improvements, became ill. Grandfather took mother to Charleston, and they remained sev- eral weeks there. Grandmother was never fond of inme. She thought me an idle boy; that I would live to disgrace her name; and I heard with reluctance that my tutor and I were to spend our time with her during my mother's absence." r      "Always reserved, I was doubly so in the presence of those whom I felt did not' under- i stand me. While with grandmother, my health \ failed more rapidly, and I was often too much indisposed to leave my room."       1 "My grandfather owned a fine body of land. His residence was an elegant lofty building near the mouth of St. John's River. The house stood on a romantic shore facing the bold i stream and on the right there was an elevated bluff, the base of which was daily laved by the rising tides. I delighted to ramble alone on this beach at low water, and revel in the indul- gence of fancy. One afternoon, being .unusu- ally unwell, I strolled along this walk some distance. Feeling fatigued, I took a seat on a log under the projecting cliff. The cool sea breeze fanned my aching brow, and I fell into a painful revery, indulging in vain longings'to traverse the leaping, laughing waves of the broad Atlantic-to see the great world and carve out a name to outlive my feeble, perish- ing frame." "How long I had been wrapped in contem- plation I was unaware. when a voice startled me. I turned and saw Mr. Glynn coming to- ward me." "Paul,' said he, "I have been seeking you every where. I have wrought out the problem we found so puzzling this morning. Here it is." '%I took the paper and looked abstractedly at it. " "Are you feeling worse to-day?" he asked. "You need rest and recreation." "Rest for the mind, yes; exertion for the energies," I answered sadly. "I have too much ease for the physical. I mean by rest, a mind satisfied with a field for the exercise of those talents God lends us. This is what every one ought to have." "True in the abstract; but in your case false philosophy. Why not give up seclusion and be more sociable with your friends? You should be happy without a care." "Why should I be happy?"I asked. "Those around me I lovei but they differ from me by nature. Even when a child, I felt it, and sought solitude. I am poor, and I chafe at not being able to go forth and battle with fate to win a name." "All in your imagination, Paul. Your name is good enough; you are young and will soon have a fortune," he replied with a significant look. "What do you mean?"I asked. "The old cannot live always," said Mr.   Glynn. "Very soon you will forget your boy- ish discontent in the adulation of a host of flattering admirers." "Never!"I exclai-med indignantly. "I scorn the man as base who would look over the grave of a fellow being for preferment, especially when that being is allied by consanguinity. I care not for wealth. I intend to struggle on alone and unaided, if life be given me, and be- come famous. I felt a contempt for my teach- er's sordid views, and he saw he had said too much." "He continued. 'I admire your noble aspi- rations; but you will change and take a com- mon sense view of things when you know the world as I do.' "Then I do not desire to know it. I would rather vegetate here, and listen always to the sounding sea. 'I feel-as if the seeds of death are already here, I said, as a violent paroxysm of coughing shook me." "I trust not," said the man in a symphthetic tone. ';What is there in the sea that you love it so dearly? To me it sounds as the rumbling of an old wagon, disturbing thought." "Its distant booming heard at this hour, has a- melancholy soothing to my soul. I love to listen, and fancy the ocean sighing an everlast- ing requiem over the countless millions held in its inexorable depths.", "Romantic, but too unreal for utility. It grows late. It promised your mother to be watchful over you," he said. "I rose reluctantly and we retraced our steps homeward. My eyes had been opened to a new and disagreeable phase of /human life. The selfishness and utter want of disinterested ac- tions among the worldly-wise call up unpleas- ing reflections. My distaste for my teacher increased from that conversation, and I avoided him." "Grandfather's house had an observatory.. One of my pleasures was to steal away thither with my drawings. To look at the ocean in a storm from this elevation was magnificent. I have been much struck with a passage from Pacuvius onle of Rome's dramatic poets, de- scriptive of the tempest tossed sea. Do you remember? It begins thus: 'The sea begins to shudder Darkness isr doubled; and the black of night And of the tempest thicken; fire gleams vivid Amid the clouds.' "It is beautiful, and suggestive to me." "I agree with you and remember the ex- tract," replied Mr. Howard. Was your sister's illness severe?"   "Yes, grandfather %nd mother were fearful her disease would be fatal; but her constitu- tion triumphed over the fever and she returned home with them to recruit her health. Mother was startled at the ravages a few weeks had wrought in me. Without my knowledge she sought an interview with grandfather and pleaded with him to send me to Europe. She urged that my art was my life, and exhibited to his vision one of my sketches." "What was the subject?" asked Mr. How- ard. "A ship goiig to pieces on the rocks near an island with the light house in the distance. The clouds were black and lowering, while the foaming sea dashed over the deck of the wrecked ship. Pieces of spar floated around, and a terrified, horror-struck group of human beings stood upon the deck. The concep- tion was good to my eye, the execution most faulty." "Mother told me that grandfather was sur- prised; that the picture affected him to tears. In early life he had been a sailor and was wrecked. A11 his own sensations at that time, as he struggled with (he devouring waters for life, recurred vividly to him. He consented to mother's request, I learned all these particu- lars at the time mother came to announce my good fortune to me." "I was lying on a lounge when she came in almost breathless with excitement." "You shall go, Paul! she exclaimed, throw- ing her arms around me." "Where?"I said in amazement." "To Europe, and you will recover. O! I know you will not die!' "I begged her to sit down, and after a time she told nie what I have just related to you. Grandfather did nothing by halves. Your treas- ured letter was brought fromn its hiding place and he wrote to you. Your reply brought joy and sorrow to our household. I was to leave them ; but it was for my own advantage. My happiness knew no bounds, I grew better rap- idly. I was sociable and gay. Grandfather said he was a stupid old sailor not to have dis- covered my merit before. He came with me to New York. Noble, generous-hearted man! I Howr much injustice I have done him I But I hope to atone-if life be spared." "You, my dear friend," continued Paul, "have been the presiding genius of my exis- tence since I was twelve years old." "'I thank you sincerely," replied M-r"How- ard. "Your narrative has been most interest- 2   ing to me, and your good opinion flattering ;" and they retired. Mr. Howard was very wealthy, and some- what eccentric, but possessed a large heart ca- pable of strong affections. In early life he had been bereft of a young and beloved wife, and an only son, from which affliction he had never entirely recovered. From that date he lived in seclusion, devoting himself to study, travel, and the collection of books and paintings. During a tour through America some years before, he had been driven by a storm to claim the hospi- tality of Mrs. Ravenel. Here he met Paul. There was somebhing in the pale, sensitive boy which reminded Mr. Howard of his lost son, and sounded into vibration chords of memory which filled his lonely heart full of melancholy music. It was this attraction which caused Mr. How- ard to send the paint box, 'And which prepared him to receive Paul as a relative. Paul Ravenel remained a year under his friend's hospitable roof, and the very best mas- ters were employed to give instructions in paint- ing, and to perfect his general education. Mr. Howard became as a beloved father, and looked with interest upon the development of the talent ' of his protege. Every arrangement was made for sending Paul to Rome at the end of the year, to perfect his advancement as an artist, when Mr. Howard was suddenly stricken by paralysis. The stroke was severe, and Paul was much alarmed. Of a gentle disposition, he hung over his patron with a woman's ten- derness, anticipating every desire during his illness. The journey to Rome was postponed. Mr. Howard had intended accompanying Paul, had not illness prevented. It was now arranged for Paul to go alone, and Mr. Howard would visit Rome after his health became better. The night'preceding the journey, Mr. How- ard brought two cases into the library where Paul was. "Paul," he said, "to-morrow you leave for Rome. It would be my delight to go with you, but I am too feeble." "Let me delay still, until you grow strong. My pleasure will cease at the thought of leav- ing you ill." "It would be selfish in me to detain you. You have been as a beloved son to me; caus- ing me the only happiness that I have known for years. My heart desires you near, al- ways." "Dear friend," said Paul, "you are the first     benefactor I ever had, and I have done nothing to requite your affectionate kindness, except to bestow all the love I am capable of feeling." "I have lived anew my youth in your com- pany. It was all I desired. My life has been a sad one, and I feel that my days are num- bered," replied Mr. Howard. "Do not dwell on so painful a theme. I trust you will live many years to bless me.' "I cannot hope it. I once before had a slight stroke of 'this disease; another must come, and then the end. My son, he said, rising and putting his hand solemnly on Paul's now bowed head, take these boxes as a me- mento of one who has loved you and whom you have made happy." He strained the youth to his bosom and was gone. Paul sat long, giving way to uncon- trolled grief. Early, the next morning, he left London. As he was starting a servant handed him an affectionate note from Mr. Howard, say- ing he could not bear to speak another fare- well. When he grew better he would go to Rome. The. boxes contained a costly watch with Paul's name and the inscription in the in- side, "Wear itfor my sake, W.-H.," and a min- iature of Mr. Howard set in gold. Paul treas- ured these gifts above all his possessions. His journey to Rome was saddened by the painting from his beloved friend; but on his arrival, he set determinedly to work, hoping to drive'away gloom by labor and the expectation of soon meeting his friend. Human hopes, alas! more perishable than the vapor which rises undef the glow of the morning sun!  CHAPTER II. "Oh, dear " said a young girl placing her hands languidly over her head and yawning while a book fell from her lap, "how unhappy I feel this afternoon! Yet why? The sun shines brightly; this room is snug with its comfortable fire; I have enough to eat and wear; all that God promises us in his Sacred Word. There ought to be a reason ' but men say women are unreasonable creatures. Very flatteringl But I cannot avail myself of this compliment. We have much to be thankful for; but it is human nature that if there be one drop of gall in our cup of happiness, it embitters the whole. We have our drop, and the cross of alway' seeming cheerful is wearing and wearisome. Must I cast aside the veil? Surely I could enduie bet-   ter if there was one heart that shared this grief." "And do I not! divide with you, Florence?" said a young lady entering the room at that moment, and smiling sweetly on the speaker. "Yes. dear Leda; but we both bear the load like good yoke fellows, and faint alike under the burden. I meant that it would lessen the affliction to share it with one who was not a party .to it. The chains of hypocrisy to a nature like mine are more galling than those of servitude." "But then, dear sister," said Leda; "think how much less we have to suffer than our mother. I often think her a saint. If she can be calm, we shouldfeel, as well as seem, cheer- ful." 'There are some sorrows which must ever remain hidden from the prying eyes of the world. Such are ours. You are impulsive and sometimes indiscreet, Florence, and I trem- ble lest in some unguarded moment you will disclose that which would excite pity, but at the same time contempt in the listener, and fear that you could not keep family secrets. Promise me that you will not divulge what our honor demands we should keep buried." 'I will, Leda, set a watch on my tongue and endeavor to imitate your patience and virtue. , I am very weak and find it difficult to do right '" and the girl heaved a deep sigh. "Persevere; you know the source from which to receive strength for all wants." - The last speaker was a girl of seventeen,;of medium height, a broad, open forehead, light \brows,- .ark, expressive grey eyes, a ndse slightly-acquiline and perhaps a little large for the other features; but the nostrils atone4 for this defect. They were thin and delicately shaped, and expressed all that firmness and  pride of character which gives strength inlstf- r fering, and incites us to the accomplishment'of r great deeds. But the crowning glory of that ; face was Lhe mouth. Small, ruddy, beautiful. The upper lip thin and slightly bowed, while t the inether one was ripe, full, and somewhat pointing over white teeth. Brown hair and a rounded figure tending to embonp)int com- t pleted the appearance of Leda Elson. Florence, two years younger, was tall and slender, well made, with dark eyes and hair, r with plain features, at times under excitement - rising to handsome. The sisters were alike in , looks and more so in character.  \ I  Some people are born in the spring timne of -, life and gather only the roses of riches, pleas-   ure and happiness, while others make their en- trance in autumn and reap the wintry thorns of poverty, slavery and wretchedness. Their lives seem one long artic winter of afflictions. Of this latter class was Leda Elson. Young in years her heart had known no spring time of joy. She was firm, quiet, amiable ; yet pos- sessed of a courageous soul, and had learned Christian fortitude, and to feel as did the Lace- demonians of old-"that the best method of blunting the edge of misfortune is to brave it." Even in her intercourse with her young com- panions there was a subdued mnelaneholy that blended with all her mirth. Her manners were irresistible. Her very pensiveness was a charm. Too proud to disclose her inner thoughts, and endeavoring always to hide from view that she was a prey to sorrow, it was impossible to ap- proach her without feeling that there was a something too sacred for confidence; and each one yielded her respect and sympathy-they knew not why or wherefore. Flrenece, it was true, as she said, bore the same cross. But she was younger; and to the" young grief usually lifts its pressure like a fog, often leaving the spirit gay and brilliant. Her nature was enthusiastic-joyous to wildness, carrying everything in its impetuosity like the resistless current of a turgid stream, in her hap- py moments. But she was subject to fits of melancholy when the clouds of sorrow were walled up so high that it was impossible to strain her vision to the-embrace of any hopeful hori- zon beyond. The Holy Spirit with His beau- teous pinions had not folded her heart in His embrace, mellowing its every thought with His glorious light as He had done her sister. She had not read or thought as much, and the world's allurements had for her a greater charm. Yet she was not frivolous, and she tried consci- entiously to do right. Though differing in looks and characteristics, the sisters were congenial, attached by cords stronger than steel to each other; and this affection was the antidote to the subtle poison of their lives. "Leda," said Florence. arousing from the revery she seemed to have fallen into-'it grows late, and I promised this afternoon to g: to see old Polydora. She wishes me to take her some, No. 6; for rheumatism, and she in- tends telling my fortune; and you may Ije sure I am alleagWrness to hear it. Will you go?" "No, she is an old impostor, and I cannot believe she can look into futurity. It has been wisely veiled from 's." "She has predicted\many curious things that   have come to pass. I have no great faith in her, but for amusement I mean to go and will not go without you as I do not think it proper to go alone." Leda's was an obliging nature, and after a few moments reflection she said, "I do not believe that were it possible to predict events, I such power would be entrusted alone to the ignorant and vicious; but I will go and look on, - and act as your chaperone on the occasion. Be in haste for mother may need us before dark." The girls were soon ready, and proceeded to the hovel of the negress, which was a 'low, smoky little shanty in the outskirts of the vil- lage. The road leading thither was skirted by oaks and pines and innumerable jasmine vines, which in spring time presented a verdant can- opy dotted over with starry shaped golden blos- sonms perfuming the air with delicious odor. - Now, all waved brown and tangled on the tree tops,'through which the wintry blasts moaned in low and deep tones keeping time to the shril- ler music of its motion as it sighed through the long-leaf pine trees. The girls walked rapidly and were not long in reaching the abode of this humble successor of the Delphic oracle. The door was slightly ajar, fastened by a piece of chain' passed through a hole cut for the purpose, a link of which was caught over a nail to keep the door closed. Smoke issued from the crevice and a mixed smell of smoke and vaporised grease greeted the olfactories of the girls as they kpnocked for admittance. After waiting some moments, the noise of a crutch and footsteps approached from the opposite end of the edi- fice,- where a mud chimney of indescribable architecture reared its lowly head., A stick black with age protruded from the opening lifting the chain, and a voice shaky with age invited Florence in. "This is my sister, mom Polydora," said she. "We came to bring the liniment I prom- ised." "Come in and welcome to the fire," said she as she preceded them to the hearth. "It isn't often the rich come to see the poor." She here pushed toward them two soiled benches,Jook- ing as if they had hung in the smoke for ages- and squatting down on a third, she placed her crutch beside her, leaned her elbows on her knees, and resting her chin on her palms, she gszed into the fire. The cabin was dark, but the fire threw a glare over the face of this person; and Leda, who had merely seen her at a distance before, had time to scrutinize     closely. Unlike most of her race her features had that Caucasian prominence indicating as- tute mental capacity. Her eyes glittered like a snake's. The mouth was large and promi- nent, forehead low, and crowned with a heavy suit of iron grey hair, above which stuck up from all points spiral wiry looking twists which gave the owner a weird and singular appear- ance. Turning abruptly from the fire and accosting Leda, whose gaze was riveted upon her, she said in a sharp, cracked voice. 'You have looked long-what do you think about me?"And before Leda could reply, she con- tinued. "You came from curiosity and think I'm a quack; but I can tell your fortin' true." "Never mind telling mine, Florence wishes hers told. I can wait to see mine." "No, you can't wait. I see by your face that you wish to know, though you think it foolish to give way to that feeliAg. Girl! you live a wwretched life at home.. There are some who are cruel to you. You feel it-and it cuts you to the heart. But pride-yes pride, that must have its fall--keeps you up. Pride keeps you from believing me; but I will make you have faith. Before the stars come out to twinkle their pure light on the just and the unjust this night, you will meet the great-them that have a high place in this country-and before a week goes by, you will meet your future husband. You will marry him; but soon he will be snatched away. Years of trouble will be yours; then you will meet one good and rich. He will carry you across the seas. You will keep all your heart for him. I have said my say." "Florence," she continued bluntly, for she never gave any adjunct to the name when ad- dressing the girls. "You came willing to hear. Cross my hand with silver and I will read the fates for you." Florence approached and thrust a dime into her withered hand. The old woman took the girl's hand and gazed sometime in it mutter- ing to herself a few words in a low tone. "I can judge you best another way," she said, "hand me that cup of coffee grounds on the corner shelf." Florence got, as she was requested, an anti- quated cup of coarse stone ware. '"Now," said the witch, "look in the cup; turn it round three times, and think of your sweet-heart." "I have none," said Florence, smiling. "Well, wish for one, and he will come." Florence twisted the cup as she was bidden and handed it back. Polydora peered into it by the-fire light. "Not so much pride or sor-   row as the other. You are gay and kind and ought to have a long life; but those clouds to the west show that your sun will set 'early. Beaux you will have, but a husband-you will be hard to please." "Now, mom Polydora," said Florence, "you must describe my lover. You have told Leda she will marry twice and shall I not have one chance?" The old woman's face assumed q sad expres- sion as she again looked into the cup: "I can't tell yet. You are young; come in a year and I can see better"-and she muttered in an un- der tone: "Tender plants wither soon, more's the pity. The pestilence shall overrun the land worse than Pharaoh's plagues. I have said all I can for both-it grows late-when the night owl screams, all gentle folk should be at home. Good night!" and' the crone motioned the sis- ters to the door with her crutch. Florence placed the vial from her pocket on the table, and the sisters, telling Polydora good bye, which salutation the crone took no notice of, left the hut and hastened in the gath- ering twilight to their home. As they emerged from the road an owl set up a shrill wail caus- ing Florence to grasp Leda's arm. "Dear Leda," she said, "I feel sorry I went to that old witch. My nerves are unstrung.  Do you think there is any truth in what- she said?" "Not in the least," replied Leda. "Yet I confess her words have impressed me more than I dreamed they would. I wish I had not gone. I believe it is wicked to encourage such charlatans. by any notice. But we must hasten home," and they quickened their footsteps. On reaching their dwelling it was nearly dark, and they found the household in much commotion. Mrs. Elson was busy arranging a very hasty impromptu supper. "Why Leda," she said. "Where could you and Florence have been thus late? I sent over to Miss Bab's for you and have been in the greatest perturbation." "'What about, mother?" inquired Leda. "Your father came in about an hour ago saying that his old friend the Hon. Arthur Kent was in town, and he would bring him here to tea. What shall we do, thus late, to get a suitable meal for a public man accus- tomed to all the luxuries of life?" Florence touched Leda and whispered. "The crone's prediction about meeting the great is coming to pass-believe and tremble." "The with had heard Mr. Kent was in town   and knew him to be xfather's friend," said Leda. "This is a huimbug." "I feel much trepidation myself, mother. I remember Mr. Kent and admired and loved him as a child; but we must make the best of a bad situation. Can we help you?" "No. Go and arrange your toilet and be ready in the parlor. You know how particu- lar your father is about ladies' attire. At best I can only offer a very plain tea." Away went the girls and were soon in the parlor; nor had they to exercise patience, that heaven born quality, long, ere the door opened and their father entered accompanied by Mr. Kent. While greetings were exchanged, let us pause and give some description of that distin- guished man, whom we loved, honored, and admired from childhood to maturity. And since'we have reflected and read. as well as ob- served the acts of the various competitors for fame that the chronicles of our country enroll we believe none have been actuated by more patriotism, or have worked more faithfully for the advancement and improvement of the coun- try's resources than Mr. Kent. Success, the world's authoritative fiat pronounces greatness, and certainly Mr. Kent deserves to be consid- ered great, even by those who meanly wish to steal his justly won honors from him. Mr. Kent had a long and honorable public career, and was not behind any of Georgia's far-seeing statesmen in the soundness and sa- gacity of his views. From his entrance into public life in 1832, his career had been one of continued and useful public service up to the present. He had repeatedly held posts of honor in the councils of his State, and of the National Confederation. As chairman of an important Congressional Committee during. the Mexican War, much of the wise legislation relating to the public service was born in his own fertile brain. His residence, romantically situated at the southern extremity of Ossabaw Island, commanded at all times a magnificent view of the wide Atlantic whose surf broke musically and ceaselessly on the beach, aiid never failed to inspire the cultivated soul with the sublime reflections on the ocean so well described in Madame de Stael's Corinne and Byron's Childe Harold. It was not strange that he should be able in the statesmanship that pertained to naval in- terests. But his practical wisdom was equally efficient in respect to the interests of the shore. In 1836, at the Macon Railroad Convention, he pressed on the public attention his project of.   I pushing the State railway to its present termi- nus on the Tennessee river-an important anid I initiating link in the railway system of Tennes- 1 see and of North Alabama. He had served f also in various other honorable capacities, and was the moving spirit in several railroad and canal companies. His was in short one of those restless and energetic intellects, sent especially by divine Providence to spy out the pathway to pub!c prosperity, and gifted with perseverance to overcome the opposition of the dull clods'of clay whose stupidity builds walls of opposition of the "earth earthy" to every effort at pro- gress. ' In height, Mr. Kent was five feet six inches; square, well knit and muscular. A clear lofty forehead surmounted by black curls; search- ing grey eyes under projecting brows; a straight nose, and a mouth whose .lips were firm and somewhat compressed, impressed the beholder. His neatly shaven face displayed a handsome pair of side whiskers; and the general expres- sion of his physiognomy comprised everything that was noble, good, and true. A few lines of thought plowed their furrows visibly on the brow. And his manners, ah, how different from those prete\ntious heroes, inflated with imaginary glory, whose greatness consists in haughty arrogance, and in thrusting their own disagreeable self-importance as much as possi- ble upon our notice! Courteous and unassum- ing, no one would suppose from his deport- ment he had sat in the high councils of the nation, find lived in intimate companionship with the master spirits of the land. All Mrs. EIson's fear, and the girls' trepida- tion were put to flight, and they found them- selves listening and sometimes joining in the conversation with perfect composure. Mr. Elson's person was abovne the medium height. He had stern features, a beetling brow, corrugated with lines traced by premature age and by reflection. His conversation and man- ners could be agreeable if he willed, but formed 'a striking contrast to his distinguished guest. The usual compliments between friends meet- ing after a long separation were exchanged, and the conversation most naturally turned upon' public affairs, to which Mr. Kent had been a witness, or in which he had been a par- ticipant. The time to which we allude there was no startling question agitating the Nation; but the commerce of the country and its in- ternal improvement -were always topics of in- terest to' every man. "Not long since," said Mr. Elsorn "business     led me to Northern Georgia, and I was im- pressed with the wonderful thrift and improve- ment apparent there. What a depth of grati- tude each Georgian owes to you, Mr. Kent, as the great pioneer in the railway improvements which have opened Georgia's resources to the world.' "At the time to which you refer," said Mr. Kent, "I was considered by many a dreamy visionary. All sorts of sneers were levelled at Electors of Bristol, "I was not to look to the h of the day or the present opinions of my onisttuents, but to their interests five or ten years ence." "Yes, s r" replied Mr. Elson, "the result has shown y r sagacity.' Envy ever directs her shafts against the most conspicuous objects. A statesman musi  be deaf, if by no other means, she must fill his ears with cotton, as did Parizade, in the Arabian Nights, when striving to, free her brothers from the enchantment which had metamorphosed them into stones." "And," said Leda.' "'You remember the story of Aristides and the shell. Not alone in ancient times has merit been considered crimi- nal by persons who cannot excel." "I know," said Mr. Kent, "that I am far behind many of America's statesmen in 'the race for prominence, and in the bestowal of great benefits to my country; but I have felt that I had a mission, and must labor for the greatest good to4the greatest number to the full extent of my poor ability. How little we ac- complish of what we project! Doubtless were I to visit the vale of Lost Treasure, the great Paladin's experience could apply with equal force to me- "He saw some of his own lost time and deeds, And yet he knew them not to be his own." Mr. 'Kent now turned to Mrs. Elson asking if she still felt her old love for flowers, and if roses bloomed in her garden as luxuriantly as they did in Florence's cheeks.,  "I still feel a fondness for flowers, but pay no attention to them," replied the lady, with embarrassment, while a flush passed over her usually pale face. Leda, too, looked annoyed and an awkward silence of a few moments en- sued. Mr, Kent wondered what there could be in the mention of flowers to excite emotion; but too polite to appear to notice it, he told Flor- ence he would send her some seeds on his re- turn to the North. Florence thanked him for his kindness in a /'   low voice, raising for -a moment her brilliant eyes which expressed a volume of gratitude, but her mariner was indicative of some singu- lar restraint which again puzzled their kind visitor. Had he looked at Mr. Elson' s face as a frown momentarily rested upon it, perhaps some clue 'to the mystery could have been found. "I think women always have some idol upon which to expend their superfluous time, other- wise they would die of ennui," said Mr. Elson to Mr. Kent. This remark was made in his usual decided manner, which to Mr. KICent had no other significance than a jest. There are many expressions of seeming badinage which frequently possess a covert, meaning the poison of wPhich enters the hearts of those. against whom they are directed; and such was this. Soon afterward Mr. Kent took his leave, and the ladies never had the pleasure of seeing him again. The day following Mr. Kent's'visit, as the girls were busy arranging the parlor and deco- rating it with holly boughs, the door opened without ceremony and Miss Bab Snubb entered unannounced. "Good morning young ladies," said she  and in the same breath she exclaimed: "'Good gracious! How can you stand this horrid dust?" and she threw open the window. 'I presume we are quite accustomed to its inhalation," said Florence Smiling; for she saw no dust to complain of. "I called to see your mother, and both of you to get some aid for our church. I am one of a committee of four appointed to organize a sewing society to aid in painting the church then for charity, after we get funds for the first purpose." And Miss Bab drew up her long form to its full height and assumed the impor- tance of a commancfer-in-chief on the an- ' nouncement of a great victory. "What are your plans?" inquired Leda. "'I think the church is neat enough as it is for our little town." "Yes, very neat," said Miss Bab, "with its rusty front and dingy pews. No wonder we cannot get a minister here that has any educa-  tion,. No man likes to preach from that tall, old fashioned pulpit." "I should think it would be a matter of in- difference," said Florence with a mischievous  twinkle of the eye. "You know, Miss Bab, a  clergyman cares only for the salvation of his flo k and serving God in the beauty of holi- a ness.'   "Ministers are like other people in their wish for neatness," replied Miss Bab, her face col- oring with vexition ;, "and if you do not care to help our society, Florence, why stay away," giving her head a toss of disdain. "I think it high time you would feel some christian charity for the exaltation of God's church. Where is your mother? I know she will join our so- ciety." Leda called to her mother and she entered in a few minutes. Mrs. Elson, was a small del- icate woman with sad black eyes and a pallid complexion, indicating feeble health. Her fea- tures were good-had been handsome in youth ; but at middle age they wore a gentle, subdued expression which told of a heart that "had been strained through the alembic of affliction," to borrow the phrase Pope Adrian IV uttered in reference to his own heart. She had been the victim of a long life of conjugal tyranny, and her sworn protector was her never ceasing oppressor. She was a meek christian. Her trials had purified and relieved her nature from all its dross; and she elevated herself in her walk on earth as nearly to the Divine example of our blessed Saviour as poor humanity can ever attain. "Bab," she said, "I am glad to see you. Can I serve you' "'Yes, Catherine. I came to get the girls and yourself to join bur society. We shall meet every Friday at three o'clock at Mrs. Darnley's and sew. Any thing which will sell well we wish made. Of course, at first we must furnish materials ourselves until the so- ciety makes some profit; and then we shall be more independent. We wish to repair the church from our earnings." "Yes, mnamma," said Florence, "'Miss Bab is going to pull down the pulpit and erect a new one in the Gothic style and paint the pews brown and imake a fine bible cushion. Dear, me'; I shall be absorbed in admiring the deco- rations instead of listening to the preacher." "Miss Bab, do have the windows stained rose color, it is very becoming to my complexion.'" "How can you be so frivolous?" said Miss Bab. "You should not jest on sacred things." And Miss Bab looked very solemn. "I must mend my character," replied Flor- ence, looking very demure, and Leda could not refrain from smiling. Miss Barbara Snubb was 'one of those ap- pendages necessary to the existence of every village-an old maid. She wavs the champion of all pious societies. She was the propagator   and disseminator of all the news of a religious character that concerned the town, and by a' liberal construction of the word religious that embraced all the news of the place. She gen- erally chronicled the ages of all the inhabitants, and knew to a day the age of each one but her- self. She was an old friend of Mrs. Elson, was a good woman enough in her way; but her way was rough and ill natured. She was the terror of all the girls; and a nuisance to Leda and Florence. Their mentor when it suited her mood, and their rival when any charming gallant came on the tapis. She knew instinct- ively when they had company, or were going any where, and always made it convenient to step in and be going to the same place. Leda bore her presence on the principle that endurance was a virtue of the highest order under inevitable ills. Florence was always teasing her and reaping amusement from her easily aroused anger, which came ever as sparks from the attrition of flint and steel. She had been well educated but knew little. She had even been fortunate enough to have been betrothed. No o-e knew what her history was, but Leda suspected her mother was Miss Bab's confidante. At any rate, there was a bond be- tween them which never relaxed its hold under any circumstances. Miss Bab at forty, was goold looking, with iron grey hair and black eyes that had a hard expression. Had she been amiable, she would have been loved; for she possessed many estimable virtues.' Even virtue needs to have some side ornaments, and to be put up in a handsome casket, to be prized by mankind. While the ladies were talking Mr. Elson came in. Miss Bab wfh'o feared nothing, in- stantly assailed him thus: "'Good morning, sir; you are just in time. I must have your name on this subscription for our church. The ladies are to do needle work, meening every Friday afternoon, and the gentle- men must subscribe something. Your name must head the list; it will be an example." Mr. Elson would have beat a retreat, for lihe had a horror of the lady; but it was too late. 'Hlow much is required from me?" "Just as much as you can give. The needs of the church are-great, and it is lending to the Lord." "Can you afford five dollars?" asked Mrs. Elson, in a low tone. Mr. Elson vouchsafed no reply to this re- mark, though a slight contraction of the brow indicated that he heard his wife's request.     "Put my name down for one dollar, Miss Snubb, and that is liberal enough when the fund is to 'cultivate a desire for show. Why cannot the church remain as it iS?"' "Appearances are a great deal," said Miss -Bab. "But I must hasten on or I shall not com- plete my list. I would have been more grati- fied, Mr. Elson, if you had been more gener- ous. Good day." As the door closed Mr. Elson exclaimed. "Execrable. old maid I She had better set about paying the pastor's salary and let the ornamen- tal alone. A fine church does not put bread into the hungry mouths of the preacher's fam- ily. Vanity, frivolity and show are all that absorb the attention of her sex. Why do you encourage Miss Snubb's visits here, Mrs. El. son, when you know my opinion of her?" , "She comes when inclination prompts,"7 the lady replied. "I have no influence to keep her away." And Mrs. Elson rose and left the room. Leda andci Florence completed their domestic work while the gentleman sat silent beside the fire absorbed in his own reflections. CHAPTER III. More potent than the Amphictyonic council in its civilizing and socializing effects was the society of feminine philanthropists which met at Mrs. Darnley's parlor on the ensuing Friday, The morning had been raining and threatenin, to postpone the important assembly. Now, at 3 o'clock, some clouds hung their grey curtains on the western horizon. Rain drops clung pendent on every tree twig through which the sun peeped brightly and humidly like the light from the tear-bedewed eyes of a sorrowfut child. Small pools of water nestled here and there in slight depression on the side walk; but Leda and her sister were not to be kept away from so important a meeting by slight obstacles. They reached th\eir destination af- ter most of the company had congregated. The usual compliments passed as they entered, and after all parties had paid the necessary respect due to the elements by those trite remarks on the weather essential to the polished breeding of all society, Miss Bab took the chair and called the meeting to order. Mrs. Darnley was nominated and elected President. Mrs. Brown, a sad, staid-little widow, vice President, Miss Bab treasurer and collector, and Mrs. Prim, another widow of a still more sanctified   order, secretary. She was to cut out all work which the members might need to sew. The members were to furnish all the mate- rials they could obtain, always bearing in mind that it was for charitable prrposes, therefore lending to the Lord!; and to take, in all sewing they could 'get; they. were also to be punc- tual in attendance and energetic in their efforts to increase the profits of the business. After the organization was complete, each lady be- gan the work assigned to her, and as no em- bargo was laid on the tongue, that industrious laborer, it also fell, energetically to work. Its efforts were cosmopolitan, generally, and' it speedily trimmed its sails for a swift voyage on the boundless see of Gossip. Mrs. Prim said she heard there were/several weddings soon to take place, and Miss Bab, if she played her cards .well, could prepare the trousseaux. "Sue Smith is to be married soon to Mr. White," said Miss Bab; "but her airs are so great she will doubtless order her finery direct from Paris." "Paris, indeed!" exclaimed Mrs. Brown. Where is the money to come from? Old Smith is not worth a dime." "But her cousin, Mr. Whte, is very rich," chimed in Mrs. Darnley, "and will have to foot the bills." "Her cousin forsooth!" said little Mrs. Stew- art. "Miss Black who knows all about the affair told me John White was no more Sue's': cousin than hers. Once on a time John's grandfather's cat went mousing in one of Miss Smith's remote ancestor's barns; and since, then, they have been cousins." ]"True, Mrs. Stewart," said Miss Bab, "now I think of it John White made his money spec- ulating, and the Smith's are related to him only. HiR poor old mother is not of kin." Leda, who had been a quiet listener as her fingers quickly wove lace from. a tiny needle and spool of cotton, now said  "Doubtless Miss Sue is of the opinion of an ancient author, 'Every thing in nature, virtue, fame, glory, di- vine and human affairs are subservient to the attraction of riches.'" "They are very attractive to some grovelling minds," said Mrs. Prim, drawing down her 'long nose to a more emphatic point; "but give me love in a cottage with the man I love." 1 "I do not doubt Sue loves Mr. White." said Florence. "Why should we judge? But he must be many years her senior."   "Sue Smith is as old as I am," said-Mrs. Brown. "We went to school together. But because I married I bear the penalty of age. I hope she will invite us to the wedding. It will be a grand affair. But who are the other aspi- rants for .mlatrimiony, Mrs. Prim?" "I hear Miss Bab is to leave us very soon." "Now, Mrs. Prim," said Miss Bab, trying to look bashful, "did you really hear such a thing'? Who is the lucky fellow?" "Professor Porter," was the reply. Miss Bab looked very smiling, and said: "He is a friend of mine, but I thought hhe was Leda's beau. He writes poetry to her." "You know, Miss Bab," said Leda, smiling, "he is 'endeavoring by compliments to gain me as an ally; but you are the real point of at- tack. He knows you are a poetess and wishes to show his congeniality on that score, but was too wary a general to approach you in a very direct manner." "And I saw him look at you every time your attention was given to tihe minister last Sun- fday," said Florence. ' "He uniderstands the art of those ancient Scythian Cavaliers, who were sent out 'to capture the affections 'of the fierce Amazonian maidens and all the adroit mance- vres which form so potent an 'open Sesame' to the secret passages leading to the citadel of the female heart." Miss Snubb looked and felt delighted, but averred that Leda knew very well that she was the Professor's flame. The ladies' fingers flew in concert with their tongues; but finding it wearisome to keep up in the race, the former often rested by the wayside, letting this lively little member win the goal, as easily as the tortoise in the fable had done, if he had pos- sessed the fleetness of the dozing hare. Leda and Florence Nwere the first to leave, pleading an engagement as the reason. Scarce had they left, when a council of war was held over their merits, and, it was decided that they were not pretty, but af'ected muchi erudition, which was all borrowed from encyclopedias or some obsolete books, that were not known or read in fiashionable first-class society. Ks Leda and Florence proceeded homeward they saw a gentleman walking towards them, and before they had leisure to decide who he was, a clear manly voice exclaimed, at the same time extending his hand. "Miss Leda, how are you? Miss Florence, I am very glad to see you. I have just called at your father's, and "not meeting you, I came in search of you."  3   "When did you arrive, Mr. de Coy?" asked Florence, "I had no more idea of seeing you than the Czar of Russia. But surprise gives double pleasure to the meeting." "And have you no word of welcome on the waniiderer's return, Miss Leda?" inquired Mr. de Coy, looking at Leda's placid countenance. "Certainly, sir, I am pleased at thus unex- pectedly meeting an old acquaintance. Unfor- tunately I am not so ready of wit as my sister, and surprise is always apt to silence me. You have not answered Florence's questions." "I came this morning. Give me credit for warmth of heart, as I could not wait until after tea to call on you. I thought you would be at home after the rain." "No," said Florence; "we promised to go to a new society which-was organized this after- noon. I confess curiosity had more to do with my attendance than charity. I have a lauda- ble ambition to observe all the improvements of the day. Going to sewing societies, buri- ishes up one's lingual and communicative wea- pons very much." "I should like to become a, member," said Mr. de Coy. "I am inclined to diffidence. Three years spent in conning the truths in dusty Greek and Latin lexicons and solving problems from Euclid, do not help a man's conversational powers,'"' "I will introduce you to our society if you en- list under my colors, Mr. de Coy," replied Flor- ence. "You can aid Miss Snubb in her de- partment as collector of revenues and trea- surer." "Does that antiquated genius still reign in the village?" inquired the gentleman. "I see Miss Florence, that you are as mischievous as ever." "Oh, I am a model of propriety. But tell inme about yourself," said Florence, laughing. "I have completed my college course, and I think I shall read medicine the ensuing sum- mer, and next fall take a course of lectures, in Philadelphia; then select a place of residence and --." "Be an old bachelor, with a spiteful spin- ster house-keeper to keep the kettle boiling and aid the sick, when you come in weary from your errands of mercy." "What a picture you present! I shall do no such thing, but select some charming little fairy who will double all my joys and divide all my sorrows. Tully remarks that such is the office of friendship; and what friendship can eiual the connubial ,species?"     "Miss Leda," said Mr. de Coy, "how silent you are I I declare your abstraction denotes that you have lost your heart." "Oh, no, Mr. de Coy," replied Leda, smil- ing. "I was listening with profound interest to your conversation. And you know, to be a good listener, is the fundamental principle of agreeability." "The rule may apply to some persons; but when a fair lady is in question, I doubt the truth of the dogma. Here comes our old friend, Professor Porter -"-and as he spoke, a gentleman of thirty-five, tall, athletic, with fair hair and blue eyes, advanced, greeting the la- dies and Mr. de Coy warmly. The Professor joined Leda, and the two couples walked to Mr. Elson's residence. Before departing, Mr. de Coy told Florence if she and her sister were disengaged, he would call on them and the whole family after tea. Ralph de Coy was an orphan. His parents had died when he was very young, leaving him to the fostering care of 'that tenderest of all relations, a grandmother. Mrs. Hume was a sensible, well informed, polished lady of the old school; and while lavishing all the fondness of a genial nature on the only child of a be- loved daughter, she had not lost sight 'of the essentials of a good education and ennobling heart-training. Ralph was a most passionate boy; When any one thwarted him, a storm of rage would be the result. Like a match applied to gunpowder, his anger would flash forth, threatening to crush every thing with its ex- plosive force; but like it, his temper would expend itself in a moment, leaving only a trace of its existence in a flushed face and bright- ened eye. He was susceptible to kindness in a remarkable degree, and possessed most of the qualities admirable in the human breast. Mrs. Hume had many fears that her grandson's tem- per would lead to much sorrow, but she be- lieved that as the constant attrition of drops of water in time would wear away stone, so judi- cious advice would smooth and soften the sharp edge of Ralph's temper. And nightly, her prayers ascended to the pearly throne of the Son of God, that this beloved child would be brought to control his wicked nature. Ralph -had known Leda and Florence Elson from their childhood and had been their school- fellow anid play-mate. He admired them both, though, if any preference 'had been shown, it was to Florence, whose gay spirit assimilated more to his-own. He had a great taste for mu- sic; played handsomely on the violin and often   devoted time, which-was needed for study, to the creation of sweet sounds. He had been sent to college three years anterior to this time, and had graduated with much honor. He was now twenty-three years old, of medium height, and possessing a fine formwith a handsome face. The delight and pride of his fond grandmother, reason had shown him the folly of indulging in these volcanic eruptions of temper; and he felt within himself, that to hold in check this failing, had been 4as great a self-conquest as the victory of Miltiades over the Persian host. "Mrs. Elson, I am rejoiced to see you," said Ralph, as he entered that lady's'parlor. "Thank you, Ralph, I feel equally glad to welcome you for your own and your grand- mother's sake. How well you look!" Mr. Elson greeted Mr. 'de Coy with more show of ardor than he usually bestowed on any one-asking of his intentions for the future. "I look forward to a summer devoted to study, sir; and then I must work at my pro- fession and accumulate funds as a basis of sup- port. I must not burthen grandmother withl any expense. Educating me was more than I deserved." "You are right,.young man. I like to see a proud spirit that chafes at being under obliga- tions to any one. In this degenerate age indus- try ,and independence are qualities scarcely known." "I hope not, sir," said Ralph. "I see many struggling manfully in their exertionms to bene- fit their conditions, and even that of their race. "You are blinded by the gloss of pretention. Wait until you live to my age. Then you will view man as he is, and realize that all is not gold that glitters." "I cannot agree with you, Mr. Elson," said Ralph. "There is much false coin, I grant,  which passes as currency. But I can tell the counterfeit, and am glad to say I see much that is genuine." "Pshaw I all gammon!" and Mr. Elson frowned while his face wore almost a scowl. "Look around," continued he, "in our good little city and tell me where is the genuine gold? Show me one young man who has a higher ambition than to smoke cigars, and air himself in the cool breeze on the wharf on the long summer days, lying up in a state of tor- por during the winter months." "You are severe, papa," said Leda. "Mr. de Coy will think you include him as he is a native of our town."   "Fiddlesticks! Mr. de Coy is scarcely out of swaddling clothes and it remains for him to prove what he can do." "You must be very energetic Ralph," said Mrs. Elson, "to gain Mr. Elson as a friend. I should regret to think Brunswick turned out only drones from her little hive of human workers." "You aire no judge, Madam," said the gen- tleman. "Confine yourself to what you under- stand. Women really know nothing outside of domestic affairs and should busy themselves with the economy of home." "Oh, papa!" exclaimed Florence, "do ex- cept me. I have no love for darning and patch- ing, and I mean to be a very learned woman." "You should teach your daughters more re- spect for their elders, madam," said Mr. Elson. "In, my day the young felt and showed some deference for the opinions of their superiors. I feel ashamed when I think howV the manners of mankind have deteriorated," and Mr. Elson relapsed into sullen silence which acted like an extinguisher to the hilarity of the party. Ralph, too polite to notice the manifest asperity of this cynic, discussed many topics with the young ladies. But there was such evident re- straint upon them,that he left earlier than he at first intended. No sooner had he gone than Mr. Elson broke out in a perfect volly of invectives on his wife for her short comings in the rearing of her children. '"I see nothing to be ashamed of in my child- ren.'" mildly interposed the lady. "No, madam, a vain glorious reveling in your own imaginary perfections is your sole occu- pation ; and for that reason your daughters are ignorant of the common civilities of life. You are not ashamed of them because your own perceptions are blunted." "I have endeavored to train them according to the directions of the Holy Book, feeling that to God I should render an account. If I have failed," and her sad eyes suffused with tears, and her voice trembled, "it has been the weak- ness of fallen human nature. I have essayed to fulfill my duty. - "All cant and hypocrisy. I cannot perceive the faintest streak of the light of religion in you, Mrs. Elson; and I have been living with you now for nineteen years. Blind whom you may, by setting your light on a hill, you cannot impose on me, for I know the flame is but false glare!" "Dear father," said Leda, watching the   f pained face of her gentle mother, "how can you speak in this way? Surely you jest to test mother's amiability." she continued, laying I her small hand timidly on his arm. He shook her rudely off, and slamming his fist t on the table near him, declared that all he at- i tered was more than true. "Your mother has taught you, girl, all her duplicity, and blinded you in the belief that she is a saint. But I tell you, I am a better judge. There are many wolves in sheep's clothing, and I assert that I ; shall never be imposed upon by their meek bleating." Leda saw that no remonstrance of hers could stemrn the tide of uncalled for censure i but she could not help saying as she gazed with her earnest and now flashing grey eyes, "Father, I have always yielded you obedience and re- spect ; but this night as I see my down-trodden mother in tears caused by unjust abuse, I will say you go too far. Forbear! Even Holy Writ says 'Ye fathers provoke not your children to wrath,'" and taking her mother by the 'hand she drew her from the room. As the door closed on thie forms of his wife and daughter, Mr. Elson's face expressed all the scorn and contemt't the human countenance was capable of. Indignation thrilled every fibre of his frame. To think that hejhad been defied by his child, and as the feeling that she was right iii her premises crossed his mind in spite of his determination that he could do no wrong in his home government, his irritation -increased. Ite was of a stern, unyielding na- ture, possessing a heart of iron - that felt little sympathy for any thing. His eyes were too wide open to the, failings of his fellows to see any of his own errors or defects. Brought 'up among the early'settlers and acquiring a com- mon educati6n, his mental powers only served to harden his naturally strong character. With- out knowing it he held the opinion of the Cy- nics, that "virtue consisted in renouncing all the conveniences and comforts of life." Penurious, he was consistent in his strict endeavors to ex- pend as little as possible for the maintenance of his family. In short, he was one of those people whose happiness seems to spring from the pain and discomfiture of those subjected to his authority. he had married his wife when she was quife young and pretty, for a fortune. This hhe had squandered unintentionally; and the feeling that he had injured her gave a keener edge to his dislike. Indifferent to religion himself, he could not believe that her piety was real. Her     Christian fortitude and forbearance, under nine- teen years of unkindness, were a continued irri- tant and frequently made him more harsh. '"The spirit of encroachment is never allayed by concession,"' says a great, writer; but Mrs. Elson was too pure and meek to practice against him the law of retaliation. Generally she received his rude remarks with silence, and, while her heart was blighted in its earliest bloom of affection, she prayed con- stantly for sustaining grace from on high ; and she found that peace which passeth all under- standing, 'to cheer her weary walk in life. Connubial love withered by its want of sym- pathy, maternal affection constituted. "'The ocean to the river of her thoughts." In her children she saw her surest source of earthly joys. Leda aided her by unwavering devotion, and Ehe consequently came under the ban of her father's displeasure. Florence was Mr. Elson's favorite, though his stern character seldom unbent to allow a preference to appear. Her sprightly nature and exuberance of youthful buoyancy charmed him, though the promptings of a cold, sneer- ing heart, prevented any visible, signs of affec- tion. His sons he considered troublesome in- cnmbrances-a tax on purse and patience. They held him in too much awe to oppose his will, and kept carefully out of 'his way when- ever possible. Leda bade her mother'good night and hast- ened to her own roomi. Florence had already retired, and after extinguishing t,he light, Leda placed a chair near the window, and strove, as she sat theie, to compose her thoughts. All was conflict and chaos in her bosom. Never in her whole life before had she ventured to expostulate with her father in his tyranny to her mother. She had witnessed many such scenes and had been sorely tempted, to speak, but sustained her self-control. This night she had spoken-but h9w? In an indignant tone unfitting a daughter in her deportment to a parent! Conscience rose up, and with a re- proachful frown urged the way to repair her error. Though instinct intuitively taught her that her father cared littl for her, this fact in the eye of God did not exonerate her from blame.- She had always been a comtemplative and imaginative child; and her love for read- ing, coupled with a deep abiding religious faith in the wisdom and goodness of God, early im- bibed from her mother's beautiful' character, had upheld her under the sirocco blast of a wretched home. The teaching of her little   brothers, Edward and James, had been another avenue of'escape from painful reflections, and she found much comfort in the constant and vigorous discharge of duty. But where is the erring child of earth that can always put forth its hand and thrust. aside thie black curtain of melancholy which falls thickly around the best of us, enveloping us in its sombre folds? To- night as she looked out on the calm, clear face of a full moon riding through the blue arch of heaven, followed by one timid star twinkling and trembling in its haste to keep pace with the brighter luminary-as her eyes fell on the rest- less waters glittering with innumerable gems, caught in its bosom from the moon's splintered scintillations, she felt, not that "Life is but the shadow of a cloud ; the dream of a sleeper," but a stern, startling reality, where the Jugger- naut wheels of oppression crush the heart to dust, and leave-little but the ashles of despair. In vain she essayed to call up the blessed prom- ises of the Saviour to those in afflictiob. Her spirit was shrouded in darkness which no light could penetrate or illumine. As thought swept over the. whole range of her life, the past showed nothing but an arid desert, with here and there an oasis, where the panting soul had paused to rest and refresh itself, and to quaff briefly, sparkling waters from the, soothing fountain of hope, to sustain it ih its onward chase after that ignis fatuuiis, happiness. The future spanned like a rainbow,' but like thi bow of promise, its colors at the zenith were less bright, dimmed by, the 'shadow of the present. As she looked falteringly into the uncertain future, hope spread its rosy pinions and tinted the bow as it touched the horizon with more vivid colors. AhI would they too prove delu- sive? Might not her life set amid "'gorgeous palaces" of happiness as she had seen the God of day sink to rest in gold and amber-rimmed vapor, after a day of murky gloom? The words of Polydora came to her in this train of reflec- tion. This afternr oon she had met two friends; one an avowed admirer. There are times when superstition holds momentary'.sway over the most enlightened minds, and' the girl asked herself, if her fate were linked, to either of these men, would she find more happiness than she now did in her childhood's home? No answer came. Her suitor was gifted anid su- perior ; her friend Ralph, noble and good; but he yas nothing to her. With a sigh, she pressed her hand over her achinghrow; and she wres-. tled, as long as Jacob of old did, with the angel of God, to quiet the tumultuous thoughts in her   bosom, and regain her wonted peace. How long she sat there wrapped in revery she knew not, until recalled by the clock striking one. Rising with a chilled sensation, the moon beams fell on her beautiful, classic features, lending them a holy light, which found its way at last into her throbbing breast. Closing the window and seeking her couch, she fell into sleep, dreaming of a home beyond the sea, where she reigned queen over the heart of one, who knew no joy, savetliat found in her own smile. CHAPTER IV. One bright spring morning, when the birds sent forth theirjoyous carol in thankfulness to Him who watches even their fall to the ground, for the return of earth's fructifying season, as Mr. Elson was leaving thie dining room hie took a package from his pocket and handed it to Florence saying, "Here is someihing'for you, Florence. I have carried it in my pocket for several days."' "Thank you, papa; I know what it is; the seeds Mr. Kent promised me. I am very much obliged. 'Who would have thought he would remember his premise? Where can I plant them?" and she looked appealingly at her father, her face radiant with pleasure. "'Anywhere," hhe said, and a sinister cx- pression swept for a moment over his face, as hie left the room mnutteriig, "Silly elf, more opening for idle follies!"  Florence did not observe her father. She was too intent upon opening the envelope, which enclosed a number of tiny cases of flower seeds, both annual and perennial. Florence was an enthusiast in her love for flowers, and had nursed many a geranium plant to death, by kind attentions, when she was a child. Experi- ence taught her that klndness could be perni- cious even to plants, unless tempered with judg- ment; and she was quite a floriculturist in a limited way. But the pleasure she reaped from this pursuit was 6ften mixed with alloy, from what she thought at first purely adventitious circumstance's. Her flowers grew' and flour- ished finely but oftentimes a luxuriant rose or shrub, without cause, would wilt rand die, pro- ducing'a flood of tears from her, as she looked on the withered wreck of her leafy favorite. Her suspicions had been aroused when these premature. deaths occurred frequently, and without any visible disease or accident. Now,    as she turned the papers of seed over and read- ing their names, she determined to plant them with care in the front yard, and to watch them with ceaseless vigilance to trace, if possible, the fatal' cause to the right source. "What are you studying so carefully, sister?" asked Edward, peeping over her shoulder. "I watched you through the window from the yard, arid here I have come quite to you, and you did not hear me. Letters from her sweet heart, I declare," he continued, as he stood on tip- toe, to get a nearer glance at the envelopes. "Paper must be scarce, and hie must love you hard." Florence laughed as she turned round. "No such good lick as my having a sweet heart. But why do you say he must love me, Eddy?" "Because," said the boy, with a mischievous twinkle of his laughing eye. "I never saw a fellow send so many .billets at one time and on mere scraps of paper. He goes on the princi- ple that valuable articles are put up in small parcels." "True; but these are only flower seeds, and I hope they will be rare plants to verify your adage." "You cannot quiz me. I know they are love notes. Did I not hear Terence Stanton the other day say you were the prettiest girl in Brunswielk, and he believed in the whole world?"7 A bright blush mantled uP to her temples, and Florence leaned forward and kissed her roguish brother saying, "You cannot tease me, Eddy. It is nine o'clock1 and Leda is calling you. I am going to work in the flower beds." She left the room, tied on her hat, and tak- ing a tiny hoe she spent 'the morning makng small drills and sowing the seeds, carefully ty- ing the name of each row to a stake and thrust- ing it securely into the earth. Her thoughts as she hummed snatches of song were all golden tinted. Her brother's teasing words rung in her ear, sending the roses to her brunette cheek and lighting up her fine eyes. Florence was full of life and elasticity of spirit. Impulsive to a fault, homen sorrows only darkened her path, now and then, as a grey cloud sweeps over the sun on a clear day, casting a momentary shadow which passes quickly, leaving the blue sky more blue-more radiant of joy. Terence Staunton was two years older than herself. - They were school-mates, and his sister Julia was her intimate friend. Florence had studied with them at school, and Terence had been her constant admirer and     friend through childhood's devious way. She knew he was a favorite, but she never analyzed her feelings to discover what sentiments ex- isted in her heart. Praise from him she felt gave her pleasure, and coldness or censure would have caused her acute pain; but above this she never reflected. Of late she had seen little of her friends. She no longer went to school, and Terence, whose father was wealthy, was kept, with his sister, closely at study. As she industriously plied her hoe in weeding and planting her flowers, she determined she would call soon to see Julia. She-did not like to visit Mrs. Staunton's often. Terence was growing rapidly into manhood, and the gossiping world might impeach her motives for calling there; semi-consciousness of partiality for Terence caused her to shrink from the observation of it by others. Miss Snubb, dear soul, always at leisure, could chaperon her. The lady in question was ever ready' for a social chat or romp with the girls, or better still, an innocent flirtation with their beaux 5 and though possessed of a slight- ly hasty temper, the girls found her a useful escort in the absence of matronly protection. The spring came with its fogs and its flowers, and the Gelseminunm sempervirens spread its golden blossoms over every shrub and tree, pro- claiming itself queen of the forest. Very many parties for gathering these fragrant flowers were formed among the young people, and both Leda and Florence enjoyed the recreation. One Saturday there was to be a flower pic- nic in the neighboring forest. ' Much time dur- ing the week was consumed in preparing a re- past suited to the occasion. Miss Snubb insisted that the girls should make up a basket of viands jointly with herself, and that Edward and James should take it to the grounds. She, as usual, was on the committee of ar- rangements. Professor Porter boarded in the same house with Miss Babb, and commissioned her to offer his services as escort to Leda and Florence. They were disengaged and his prof- fer was accepted. The day dawned serene and lovely. The sky was blue with here and there a thin white crapy film of vapor floating lazily near the horizon. The freshening breeze made the ripple of the river more rapid, which, clia- meleon like, borrowed its blue tint from the cerulean heaven. Skirting the stream was the wavy marsh grass nodding before the sea breeze, while far away in the distance rose a snow- white sail speeding its way on the mighty deep. A s far as the eye could scan, peach trees wore their blushing robes of clustering flowers. The   plum, more modest, stood- adorned in snowy white. Busy bees hummed ceaselessly in their search for honey, while butterflies, those apt emblems of folly and fashion, flitted hither and thither in pursuit of pleasure. Group after group of young people took the road leading near Polydora's cabin, chattering gaily as they walked to the place of rendez- vous. Miss Bab called early with the Professor under her patronizing wing for Leda and Flor- ence. Leda handed the basket to her little brothers, enjoining them to be careful and attentive in regard to their deportment during the day. The boys promised obedience, for her wish was potent with them at all times. "-Miss Bab directed them to walk ahead and she with the girls would follow. "Let us be your escort, Miss Bab," said Jamie, "Edward and I wish to play gallants too. Sister Leda can take care of Professor Porter and Florence." I "Gallants, indeed!" exclaimed the indign'ant spinster, "I had as soon be escorted by puss in boots as such babes-I promised your mother to go with the girls." And Miss Bab squared herself beside Leda with a pertinacious strut of importance." "Confound her officiousness!" inwardly said Professor Porter, who desired to monopolize Leda, and caught at this auspicious opening "Dear Miss Babb," said Edward, with mock disappoinitment. "I am very sorry you will not walk with us. You are right to keep your promise to mamma. Jamie and I will seek another sweet heart. We will walk on and if we get hungry, which all boys do, we will get into the baskets" and away they ran as fast as they could. Miss Bab, was completely out-generaled by the juveniles, and shrieked at the top of her voice for the boys to come back and bring the basket. They heeded inot her commands, but sped on disappearing behind a curve in the road. The girls and Mr. Porter, could not refrain from laughing heartily, while the lady consoled herself that she would be near the gentleman- at the sametime vowing vengeance on the cul- prits. The walk was pleasant. Mr. Porter, who was very intelligent, discussed with Leda va- rious books they had read, throwing more light upon them, and opening new avenues of thought and information to both of them. /   Passing Polydora's cabin, Mr. Porter asked Leda if she gave any credence to the art of di- vination;- at the same time expressing some playful wonderment whether the prophetess was a descendant of Polydorus. ' "I presume she is," said Leda, laughing. "Every body's ancestors are distinguished. Polydora exercises what Lord Bacon calls 'ar- tificial divination.' I have little faith in for- tune telling. Were it possible to read the book of futurity, such license would have been given to wise and enlarged minds, whose scope of in- tellect could devise plans for averting pain and promoting pleasure to the human race in general. I think it absolutely a sin to wish to penetrate into that which God wisely hides from us." "Perhaps you are right, though I never re- garded it in that light. It is human nature to yearn after that which is prohibited. I would give worlds to see just a short distance into my future!" And the gentleman bent on Leda an eager, pleading gaze; but her classic face showed no emotion, other than the heightened beauty of a cheek flushed by exercise. Again as Leda felt the gaze of the earnest face near her, Polydora's words rung in her ear, and she wondered if her fate would be linked with his. On arriving at the place of destination, compliments were exchanged among friends. The baskets were put under the charge of Miss Bab and the sewing society managers, while the young people paired off to gather jasmines, and amuse themselves. Te-" rence and Julia Stanton monopolized Florence, leaving Leda talking to Mr. Porter. Since the night that Ralph de Coy had called on her, Leda had not met him. She had been closely occupied with her school, which with some at- tention to the household cares dnd se ing to relieve her mother, kept her busy. To-day she saw him and he bowed very politely to her, but did not approach. He was in company with some other girls who were conversing 'gaily. Leda proposed gathering flowers, inviting Miss Bab to accompany her. Miss Snubb delegated her- authority as commissary-guard to Mrs. Brown during her absence, and 'they followed others in search of jasmines. The. time passed rapidly until near one i o'clock, when Miss Bab asserted she must re- ] turn to her post to arrange the table. They approached the spot where the cloths were E spread and every luxury which could tempt the { taste was laid on the impromptu table. The I ladies sat about in groups while the gentlemen handed the savory viands, which met a hearty   welcome from appetites sharpened by exercise and mirth. Songs and jests and joybus laughter from merry young hearts, light as dew on the morning grass, made the welkin ring. After- ward the young people formed sets for a quad- rille, leaving the fragments of the feast to the thoughtless, happy negroes. "Miss Leda, have you learned to dance yet?" asked Ralph, approaching her; "if so, allow me the pleasure of your hand for this cotillion," bowing gracefully before her. "No," she replied, "I have less taste for dancing than formerly." C"Then I must seek Miss Florence ;" and again bowing he went away. "There are some beautiful specimens of fit- chella repens, Miss leeda, near the brook;" said Professor Porter, "suppose we walk thither while the dancegoes on, and Miss Bab is engaged." 4"Very well," said Leda, rising; and they walked down the cool, shady road where a' se- cluded streamlet babbled noislessly under spreading umbrageous trees, and tangled vines. Mr. Porter gathered some specimens of the tiny twin flowers nestled so snugly under the brown leaves fallen from the forest trees, and sitting down on the mossy bank, Leda -dipped some of them in the streamlet and wove them in her hair. Botany was a science she loved, though she did not profess to be profoundly learned in it. As Mr. Porter expatiated on the subject and his eye wandered over the form of the fair young being beside him, her hand dripping with water-drops, more beautiful did she seem to his partial eyes than the virgin cup bearers in the palace of Valhalla. Could he have seen how symbolic was that Scandinavian Paradise, where love never entered, of the state of her heart, it had saved him a mighty pain. But the impenetrable vail, guarding the future, hung alike around his fate and hers; and he fancied as he explained the analysis of the flowers that her gaiety had its origin in the happiness of his presence. "Why have you been so secluded recently, Miss Leda? I have seen-nothing of you. Take care that much learning doth not make thee mad. You will lose the roses from your cheek if you study too much. I think youi look thin," he continued, quizzingly. "You are a critical observer, sir," she said, smiling. "I always find occupation. My school and aiding my mother, leave me less time than I could wish for reading, and little for going abroad." "For what end do you read?"     "For pleasure and instruction. I have never carved out any career for myself. A woman's sphere is confined within the narrow limits of home life, and she wields little or no influence beyond it. Any step outside of the prescribed bounds proscribes her as trespassing on mascu- line territory. Even adverse circumstances compelling her to leave domestic oblivion do not render her conduct excusable in the eye of the world. Your sex is merciless in the ava- lanche of invective hurled against women yclept independent." "I differ from you. History shows that wo- men have exerted a tremendous influence out- side of home. To women, Rome owed three of its greatest political changes, and they, helped to raise the storm which afterwards car- ried away many of their devoted heads in the French Revolution. No man possessed of a mind would attempt to crush and scoff at a woman's struggles for bread. The very fact of misfortune taking her out of her sphere, ought to enlist sympathy. Very many of your sex lay aside, under these surroundings, that mod- est trusting timidity which loves to hide its weakness in the cheering warmth of home re- tiremen;, and which forms their greatest at- traction. On such the world showers its anl- madversions unsparingly. Often the true wo- men who retain the genuine modesty of their natures, but whom the Fates thrust forward into more prominent action, suffer for the sins of the preceding class." 'But it is unjust; and the world holds few such thinking men. Contact with sordid, sneer- ing humanity must wear off the coating of timid trustfulness you so much admire. Were it always there, it would be a source of misery and unfit the shrinking soul for gaining a livelihood. I am not an advocate for women leaving the screen of domestic life; but when misfortune compels it, man should aid her efforts. God help the poor creature exposed to the biting blast of public opinion!"And the girl's earnest search- ing eyes dilated with indignation, while her beautiful mouth, and proud delicate nostrils wore an expression of scorn. All her meek uncomplaining mother's wrongs swept over her at that moment. How lovely she looked in her 'brown dress anid snowy collar, with the white Mitchella gleaming in her bark brown hair, the avowed champion of her sex. "Ah! Miss Leda, if you are ever-thrown on the world, I see the germ of a glorious career for you. No scorn-nothing but admiration could follow you."   "From a few, perhaps; but from the mass of my own, as well as your sex, I should find no mercy. It is i painful, theme and I trust God may never call me to bear such a cross; but if so, I shall endure it unflinchingly, ren- dering my account to Him regardless of the world's abthemas." "Miss L'eda, I received a letter recently urging me to continue my lectures on chemis- try and botany already commenced, and my friends are anxious I should accede to their wishes. I have been here longer than I in-' tended, and it depends on you whether I go or stay. You must have seen that for some time you lhave been an object of admiration to me. That regard has long since deepened into love, and now you reign supreme over my hleart. Oh tell me, Miss Leda," he said, taking her hand, and his voice trembled with emotion, "is / there no response to my love? Can you not trust me? And may we not walk life's devious journey 'happy in each others affections, rest- ing finally in the twilight eve of existence in the bosom of God forever? Speak beloved girl, and relieve my bursting heart from sus- pense!" A pained expression flitted over Leda's face as she said mournfully. "Would that I could -grant what you ask. But no love enters my heart for you. We can never be other than friends.    " "If your heart is not preoccupied, I can hope in time to win your regard. Do not refuse let me strive to gain your affections." "It is useless. You possess all the requisites to render- one of my sex happy; but love springs spontaneous from unfathomable depths. For you I feel nothing but friendship. Let us remain friends, and forget this scene painful to both."' He pressed her hand and they walked in si- lence toward the revellers. It has been said that no woman yet refused a man's proffered addresses without making him an implacable enemy. This is doubtless the case among that class of fashion-worshipers who think it the highest aim of life to encourage and trifle with man's love. But never does this occur where true friendship and common sense constitute a neutral ground of safe retreat. As Mr. Porter walked beside the lady of his love, no bitter- ness found a resting place in his heart. Deeply pained and disappointed, he yet attached no blame to the beauteous, spotless being beside him; and through life he retained a friendship for Leda Elson.   Miss Bab twitted them with some asperity on their long absence. Leda busied herself in assisting to put away the plates in the baskets- and gathering up the bunches of odorous blos- soms. The different groups of pleasure seek- ers sought their homes. Ralph. de Coy joined Miss Bab's party on their return home, offering to carry Leda's flowers, and she was very glad of his presence as it diverted observation from herself. Mr. Porter, with admiral self-possession, jest- ed with Miss Bab and defeated all her attempts at discovering if. as she suspected, he had a seri- ous attachment for Leda. How often does a smiling brow and laughing tongue cover an aching heart! The Professor felt this acutely' as he bandied words of badinage with the loqua- cious old maid. The spring months passed away with -no change in Leda's existence. She pursued her studies with greater energy as a diverson from an unhappy home. Reading all the standard authors and making a written analysis of her reading, she endeavored to digest all. she read, enlarging the 'mental vision and gathering a golden harvest of beauties for her pains, by understanding all the classic allusions, that she found in literature and deducing conclusions which she garnered in her heart's chambers for future use. Reaping wisdom from the ex- perience of others, she strenuously avoided those quicksands of error into which so many' of earth's gifted children have sunk; while she emulated the virtues of those great and noble souls whose praises are still wafted down the shores of time to us. Mr. Porter had gone on his pilgrimage for dispensing useful knowledge among his fel- lows. Ralph de Coy came often during the pleasant summer evenings and accompanied Leda and Florence with his violin. They both played on the piano, taught by a loving mother who was an accomplished performer. Leda enjoyed Ralph's company very much, for his atten- tions were exclusive to neither her sister nor herself. She found many congenial sentiments in his enlightened mind and delighted to listen to his music. Melody of all descriptions had a powerful and varied effect on Leda. She could spend hours at her piano, as music was a passion; but she loved above all else, melan- choly music. Its pathos awakened holy inde- scribable yearnings- "Through every pulse the music stole, And held sublime communion with the soul;" 4   which longed to divest itself, at such moments of the narrow limits of humanity and bound away to the immeasurable depths of eternity. Tears would sometimes fill her eyes which she vainly strove to hide as evidences of weakness. Who that has gazed on a being so beautifully 'attuned to harmony would chide it as weak? Is it not an evidence that strong, and gentle, and loving attributes are blended in that bosom? So Ralph de Coy thought as he watched Leda's expressive face on those pleas- ant summer evenings in the cottage by the river side. Many weeks subsequent to the pic-nic, one afternoon Florence had been walking. On her return she stopped a moment to look at and gather a few flowers. They had grown luxuri- antly, and some of them had been in bloom. Now, to her surprise and mortification, scarce- ly a flower-could be seen. "Oh, who could have destroyed them?" she exclaimed, and burst into tears. How natural it is for the human heart to seek some idol on which to expend its exuberance of affection! Like the Count Charnay, Florence had watched over her Picciolas from their first escape from the enveloping seed. Each day's expansion and development, as they put forth tiny leaves in their completion of an emerald garment of foliage, called forth new delight in her; and when the delicate buds began to form, her cup of pleasure Was full. Now, as she stood there, a flushed Niobe, looking over the wreck of her treasures tended with so much agreeable toil, the indignant tears fell faster. All her watch- fulness had failed to detect the culprit. How long she stood there revolving various plans for circumventing the enemy, she was unaware, until the voice of her mother recalled her. "In tears, Florence! what is the matter my child?" "Oh, mamma, my pretty- flowers I have watched and loved so long ar6 all gone." Her emotion choked further utterance. Mrs. El- soi's face assumed an expression of absolute ag6ny which Florence did not see; and after a few seconds spent in endeavoring to calm her- self, Mrs. Elson said: "This is trying; but here are many left, dear child, and I would compose myself. Have you never reflected, Florence, that the goodness of God iscapparent even in the vexations of life, and we should bear our crosses meekly? A modern writer of the stoical school of philoso- phy well remarks, 'Murmur at nothing; if our ills are reparable it is ungrateful; if remediless     it is vain.' Then, my dear, should you not en- endeavor to quiet your repinings? You cannot restore your flowers; but here are others. They will bloom, and console you. Let us walk around the garden." "Dear mother," said Florence, "if I were a Christian in thought and deed, like you, I could compose myself; but alas I I am, more frail than the fragile reed bent by the passing breeze, and at this moment my heart is full of vengeance for the recreant hand that destroyed nay flow- ers. ' "Oh, cease, my daughter I You know not what you say." "Vengeance is mine," saith the Lord I and once again the black shadow swept slowly over Mrs. Elson's otherwise pale, placid face. "Promise to be patient, Florence, remember- ing 'that all things work together for good to them that love the Lord.' ' "Mother," said Florence, as they walked confidingly around the walks, "I wish I pos- sessed more piety for your sake and my own but I fear I am too much of the earth. and nay nature too volcanic to bear wrongs. I can but try to improve ;" and she sighed painfully. "Then you will grow better. There is a soul-sickness as well as that which afflicts the body i and Christ is the healer who brings convalescence. Go to himn and he will surely restore you." Mrs. Elson kissed her child and pressed her to her heart, murmuring all inward prayer that the Good Shepherd would bring her into his fold; and she walked slowly back to the house. Florence sat down on a border which sur- rounded the garden to compose herself before going into the house. She had not been there very long when Jamie came in at the gate bear, ing a large bunch of flowers in his hands., "Oh, Florence, I have been looking for you, I found all these weeds you take so much care of, over the fence.' Why did you pull them up?" "I did not pull them up, Jamie; but help me to replant them. They may possibly grow. " And Florence examined the roots. Some of them were moist, others were dry and trampled. Sending Jamie for some water, and the flower pot, Florence arose, got her hoe, and with Ja- mie's assistance, had her plants all set out be- fore dark. Her industry was repaid by some of them which took root and grew; but there were no more flowers that season for the puz- zled and chagrined Florence.   CHAPTER V. "Leda Elson. Oh, Leda Elson! you will give me the sore throat screaming for you! Are you all deaf?"And Miss Bab's shrill voice rang clarion-like through the house of Mr. El- son, as she entered, as usual, unannounced. Miss Bab opened the parlor door, then seized the knob on the other side of the entryway with some vigor; but no living figure rewarded her search. Happy was it for those chairs that they were inanimate, and that she hadnlot the fatal eye of Caliph Vathek, else in the lady's rapidly increasing irritation, her fiery glances might have exterminated thenm. On she darted through the house, like a comet in her course into the kitchen. There she found Mrs. Elson inspecting some culinary matters. "Well, I am glad I met you!"Miss Bab ex- claimed, panting with vexation. "Screeching for some one has made me hoarse ; and she gave several affected and forced coughs. "Where are Leda and Florence?" she contin- ued. Mrs. Elson inwardly smiled at the maiden's ruffled mood, and by her own calmness endeav- ored to restore Miss Bab's equilibrium. But some natures are subject to paroxysms of irri- tation that the placidity of others serves only to aggravate. MissBab was more vexed by Mrs. Elson's quiet manner. She proceeded without noticing this to answer the lady's ques- tion. "Leda is at school, and Florence has gone to spend the day with Mrs. Hume. Ralph was absent and the old lady, I presume, was lonely. Has any thing happened unusual in town? "Yes, Kate; you heard that the minister we wrote to had accepted the call and will be here in two weeks. We are to have two meetings of the society each week, and a supper. Our funds are not enough to repair the church and arrange the house for the, minister also. These ends must be accomplished in some way, and I wish the girls' assistance. You, of course, will lend your aid." "Certainly. I will help you all I can. But who is the pastor whose advent is creating so much village disturbance? Tell me all about him." "His name is Snowden. Mr. Darnley had a letter from him to-day. He has a wife and one or two children. I am afraid we cannot keep him long. The salary we offer is very small." "If he is a good preacher I hope we can.   His services in other churches will yield him something." "True; but I am in a hurry. Tell Leda she and Florence must meet us on Wednesday and Friday, punctually at three o,clock. Good bye 1"  And this meteoric specimen of human. ity darted off in her flight to other domestic constellations'. On Wednesday the members of the sewing society met and discussed the merits of the coming preacher. The widows regretted that poor Mr. Snowden was encumbered with a wife and family. In those hard times he really was an object of commiseration, and they held up their hands with pious ejaculations of pity. All the arrangements for a supper were made, and it was to take place on Tliursday of the ensuing week. Miss Bab undertook collecting from the gen- ,tlemen who yielded up their spare coins with becoming benevolence just to get rid of her. But she with woman's native self-esteem, at- tributed their generosity to her eloquence and their desire for the spread of the gospel. Among Mr Elson's peculiarities was a strict weekly investigation of home expenditures; and when the consumption of food was greater than he thought prudent, he bestowed much abuse against his wife's wilful extravagance. Mrs. Elson asked him if she could contribute any thing toward the supper, and her lord growled a surly response that 'she might send a ham. Like all persons very penurious at home, he affected great liberality abroad. Leda and Florence furnished some jellies and aided in arranging the table. A large room in Oglethorpe hotel was se- lected for the supper. This was a spacious,  handsome building of many stories, each story  surrounded by a piazza and the house termYni-  nated in an observatory. The place was ad- : mirably suited to festivals. Leda and Florence  walked to the hotel on the designated Thursday, taking a servant with them to carry their con- n tributions. On  entering a large room they 1 found the coops of society officials arrayed in their full panoply of powers. There was a  1 brisk skirmish of tontgues going on, at which m each feminine general brought up and deployed c her forces with admirable military precision. Evidently they understood all the strategic ma- nceuvres necessary for conquest. The combat t was so animated that-the girls stood silent, and unobserved observers for some time. At length I little Mrs. Brown espied them. "Leda, do come and take my  part. I wish t   n your suggestions on a matter, of vital impor- tance to our success. I have proposed a grab e bag. at ten cents a grab, and a fortune teller at I twenty-five cents for reading the destiny of each I dupe." "I am for the Post-office," said Mrs. Prim. c "Who ever heard of not having one?" "Dear me," squalled Miss Bab to be heard over the storm of voices, "I think we will have enough to do to sell at the tables." t  "No, indeed ;" put in Mrs. Darnley, "'tick t ets can be bought at the door, and unless we raffle off some things we shall make nothing." "I think we had better-let some of the girls F sell bouquets. They can play flower girls and the boys will buy a great many," said Mrs. F Stewart. "Oh, yes I do let us sell flowers, Mrs. Stew- artt," said Sulia Staunton ; and turning to Flor- ence, she whispered. "We shall have such fun! Terence will buy all of yours, Flora dear." Florence blushed and laughingly assented. "What in the world are you girls whispering about?" sung out Miss Bab. "Here I have been working all day. It is near twelve o'clock and you are all idling." "Indeed, Bab, you are always scolding," said Mrs. Prim. 44What must we begin at?" "Oh, there is plenty to do!" said Mrs. Brown, in her lisping tones. "Any thing you choose." Leda had been a lookler on amid this con- fused scene. Cedar boughs lay around the room in careless disorder. In one corner were piles of plates ; on a side table were cakes, Jellies, custards, meats, pickles, pellmell in a more mixed state than would suit a Japanese palate. These lay waiting the touch of some fairy fingers to bring order out of chaos. In the centre of the room stood slender-legged pine tables awaiting their snowy linen vest- ments. She now asked what had been decided upon as the programme for the night. "Oh, nothing definite has yet been deter- mined. upon,"' exclaimed several voices in a breath.  "Can you not suggest something?" "I will help execute," said Leda, "but older heads than mine must plan. This suggestion I will make, however, that it grows late and we ought to be at work." ( "That is a fact," exclaimed several ladies. "The first thing to be done," said Leda, "is to spread the cloths. Where are they?" "I forgot to bring them! Here, Bina," said Mrs. Darnley, "run round to my  house and look in the chest in the dining room, and get three cloths."     Bina, a sable belle of African extraction, re- ceived the order with a grin and slowly left to execute it. This caused further delay. But Leda, who had come to work, began arranging fruit in the baskets, with leaves filling gracefully the inter- stices left by the rotundity of the oranges and apples. About three o'clock Ralph de Coy, Terence Staunton and several other gentlemen, came to arrange the cedar ornaments around the ceilings and window casings. Ralph de- voted himself to Leda, executing all her sug- gestions about the adornments with celerity, while the society leaders discussed the feasi- bility of their respective plans. . Florence, Te- rence and Julia, left the workers to go into the observatory where a fine view could be had of St. Andrew's Sound, and to amuse themselves conning over the names of the various visitants recorded on the walls of the little tower. Leda labored until near sunset arranging the table with skill and taste; for which she re-' ceived some flattering compliments from Ralph, who walked home with her offering to be her escort for the evening. "Thank you," said Leda; "call at half past seven o'clock and I shall be ready," and they parted. Mr. de Coy was punctual to his engagement; and on entering Mr. Elson's door found Leda and Florence quite ready, and the pertinacious Miss Bab a self-installed duenna. Ralph inwardly bestowed a few expletives on the intrusive propensities of single ladies, whose charms being invisible, fail to attract at- tention, and, uninvited, force their presence on others. There was no alternative but to act as escort to the party; so taking Leda he walked on, Miss Bab with Florence following near. Florence did not lose this opportunity of teas- ing Miss Bab and developing her excitable temper, which Ralph enjoyed very much. On reaching the hotel their ears were assailed by sounds of mirth which arose from a merry party of young people around the inner door of the reception room. This apartment was filled with guests, and was handsomely lighted; and every body looked gay and happy. Julia Staunton took Florence into the supper room and gave her a basket containing several hand- some bouquets of exotics from her father' s green house. Julia had also a basket, and they were to vend their flowers ; and if successful; to be stow the proceeds on the church. "Florence, dear, you must leave your basket here for the present, and we will go to the door   where Sue Smith has the grab bag with Mrs. Brown, else we shall lose all the sport." -"I am ready, Julia ;" and they elbowed their way through the crowd which was more' dense n'ear the door they sought than any where else. The aspirants for the honor of diving into the bag came up, one by one, paid their dimes, and through the crevice of the door could put in a hand and take out one article. This rule was often disregarded, when a scuffle ensued between the grabbers, and the guards of the seeming exhaustless bag behind the door. The articles taken out were generally unsuited to the possessors. Gentlemen drew as prizes, dolls, needle cases, thimbles, etc., while the ladies often got cigar cases, pipes and the like. All these inequalities were very amusing to the mirth-seeking crowd. In another part of the room the fortune tell- ing went on vigorously at a window behind which the seers were located. This also caused much hilarity. Miss Bab was told she would marry a very scientific -man before many months, at which the lady looked very know- ing and tried to raise a blush. The effort was. the source of much laughter. At eleven o'clock supper was announced. Cakes were raffled for after supper. The, raffling was consented to only after many discussions of the propriety of gaming at a church supper. Florence Elson and Julia Staunton in white dresses, their brows encircled with chaplets of the same spotless hue, mingled among the assemblage with their little, baskets of flowers. Only gold coins were current in their market. Ralph de, Coy pur- chased the most beautiful nosegay in Julia's basket, handing her a shining half eagle. "Miss Julia," said he, "I intend these flow- ers for my lady-love!" "Do tell me iWho she is, Mr. de Coy. I thought you werOtoo devoted to study to think a moment on Any girl's bright eyes." 4I can dlo both, because I bestow more pains on my reading when I think that some day, if I succeed, I shall offer all to the fair one. Her 3 image cheers me on." "You had better confide in me," said Julia, laughing. "I will espouse your cause and aid t you; and I am one woman who can keep a secret But I must hasten on or I shall not sell my flow- ers ," and she disappeared among the throng. Terence Staunton came up to Florence after - a time. "Florence," said he, "I have been seeking t you, but you are such a mirage that you vanish r as I pursue."   "Here I am, sir, at your service, genuine flesh'and blood," said she laughing and bow- ing. "How can I serve you?" "In several ways; sell me all your flowers. I wish no one else to have the pleasure of buy- ing but myself." " No, indeed! Here is one bouquet; my price is one gold dollar." Terence took the flowers and put into her palm a ten dollar gold piece. "I cannot make the change," she said. "I do not need it," he replied. "You are a poor salesman at a fair. I thought you gave no change." - "I do, always," said Florence. "I dislike unfair dealing even in fun; but I will credit you with nine dollars." "Very well,.I shall call on you when I need it. Here is a bouquet for you. Pray keep it for my sake ;" and he handed her a beautiful cluster of camelias and geraniums. Florence took the flowers and thanked him blushingly, and passed on. She and Julia were most successful in'their floral speculations, mak- ing fifty or sixty dollars each. The night wore away, and at last the guests sought their houses. M'ss Bab went in coin- pany 'with Julia and. Terence who escorted Florence; thus leaving Ralph to enjoy Leda's society alone. The night was clear and the the stars looked down vigilantly as' they had done for ages, from the ramparts of heaven in their ceaseless senti- nelship over the destinies of the sorrow strick, -en children of earth. "Miss Leda, did you enjoy the evening?" "Oh, yes, Mr. de Coy, very much. Though I think while we enjoy festive scenes, they call forth melancholy reflections. Every thing is frivolous and vapid; there is no solid pleasure in them." "I agree with you," rejoined the gentleman. "There must come a sober reaction after any exuberance of spirits. I presume all who are not the merest votaries of fashon and folly, feel as you do. My nature is gay; but I am dissatisfied with my lot." "I regard discontent as a sin," said Leda. "We must, as Horace says, 'set a certain limit 'to our wishes ;' and Bacon advises 'an artificial nourishing of hopes as an antidote to the poison of discontent.' " "But," replied Ralph, "Bacon is obsolete, and Horace too. There have been improve- ments in the limit custom sets to our desires since their day. It takes much more to render /   a man or woman happy in the 19th century; and the aphorisms of ancient poets and philos- ophers may be well considered absurd." "I hope you do not subscribe to the like, opinions," said Leda, laughing. "I am afraid I do in some things; but, Miss Leda, I mean to propound a riddle to you, and I will offer a reward to you if you solve it. To recur again to a moral doctrine of one of the earliest philosophers: I possess 'health of body, a moderate fortune, and a cultivated mind,' which, he says, 'are the chief ingredients of hap- piness.' Now tell me why I am not happy?" "Because you do not wish to be. These possessions are in my opinion the sumimnum bo- num of life, and you ought to have added in your catalogue of blessings, a fond grandmoth- er's devotions. No man under the dominion of reason ought to desire more." "I may be very unreasonable, but I do desire much more. Some day if you cannot solve the enigma which I desire you should, I may tell you. If you read it, the reward shall be yours." "I am a poor hand to keep secrets. I gen- erally keep Punic faith." "Excuse me for doubting the last assertion, Miss Leda. I know no young lady whose face expresses more reticence. Here we are at your door, and here is a bouquet for you." "Thank you. I love flowers very much. Good night," and as she entered the house Ralph said to himself, "I wish she loved the donor too!" and hastened home to dream of a land blooming with roses and garlands of myr- tle through which Leda's charming face was seen. The sewing society supper was a complete success. Several hundred dollars were realized. This was exceedingly gratifying to the commu- nity in general, as all were interested in having a minister. The church was repaired. A few days before the arrival of the incumbent, the ladies had the delight of another excitement, by preparing the residence for the inmates. Various articles of furniture of the cheapest and most useful kind were purchased and placed therein. Each pious sister sent a basket of edibles. The president and her able counsel- lors received Mr. Snowden with his wife and two children and conducted them to their new home. A few weeks subsequent to the supper, Julia Staunton called on her friend Florence, and told her that Mrs. Staunton intended giving a large party before Terence left for college.     "Every body is to be invited," said Julia, 'and mamma told me to tell Leda and your- self sometime previous, so you would be pre- pared. Now, Florence, I am determined," she continued, "that we shall dress alike at this :farewell party, I call it. It is given particular- ly for Terence before he leaves home for col- lege. Here is a package for you. Tell me you will wear the contents." Florence opened it and saw a beautiful pink challis and trimmings. "Oh, Julia, how could you be so extravagant as to bring me this? My dear friend, I ought not to accept it." "Yes, you must, Flora, I will be positively offended if you refuse. You shall dress just like I do. My dress is of the same piece, and we must wear white flowers. Please be a dear girl!" and Julia caught'Florence around the waist and whirled her about the room. "Thank you, Julia I I feel so much indebted for your kind thoughtfulness, and I will coni- ply with your desire; but I prefer, just a little, that you had not brought it." "Only wear it, Flora, and I know you will look charming and will believe you love me. Good bye! I must go. Tell Leda all about the party for me. I regret I did not see her ;" and Julia kissed Florence and left. Julia was a most generous hearted girl, and noble in many respects. She had often maide Florence Elson handsome presents, and in such a way that it was impossible to refuse without giving offense. After Julia left, Florence took her gift into her mother's room and asked her advice about it. Mrs. Elson said she saw noth- ing indelicate in Florence's wearing it under the circumstances, and offered aid ,in cutting the dress out. Very handsome cards of invi- tation were issued' for Mrs. Staunton's party, which was the mostrecherche affair that had ever been seen in that neighborhood. Mr. Staunton was very wealthy and everything was bought from abroad which could gratify the taste, with the addition of a band of music from Savannah. Mrn. Santon resided a mile or two from t n. His elegant residence exhibited all the appur ences of wealth. It was built in the form of a Greek cross and painted a delicate pearl color. Massive steps, with white balustrades, led into a wide peristyle which displayed elab- orate pedestals bearing lofty Ionic pillars ter- minating in volute capitals. These supported a white entablature ending in an imposing ped- iment. The delicate tinted facade was embel-   ishbed with colorless pilasters, and great windows traversing from floor to ceiling. The sceno- graphic perspective of the mansion was en- chanting. 'The grounds in front were ample and laid off by hedges of wild olive, forming cool sequestered walks leading to fairy bowers, overrun by roses and jasmine vines. In the centre of the circular plat, immediately before the building, a small fountain threw its dool- ing waters ceaselessly over the encircling beds of violets and other fragrant flowers. Mrs. Staunton sent her carriage for Mr. Ei- son's family. The night was beautiful and cloudless. The gibbous moon hung high in the heavens, adorning every tree and shrub with, her silvery light, and flecking the quivering fountain with glittering gems. Colored lights hung from the tree boughs, and the band ac- companied by the soft music of the harp dis- coursed most harmoniously. As the carriage drove up the circular avenue leading to the house, Leda and Florence looked from the win- dows with deep admiration feeling as if sud- denly transported to some fairy palace. Ter- ence Staunton met then at the door and con- ducted them to the reception room where Julia received them. "Mrs. Elson, I am very glad to see you. I feared you would not favor us with your pres- ence which always enhances my happiness. Florence how lovely you and Leda look," she continued, kissing them both. Leda was ar- rayed in white, her pure brow encircled by a wreath of tiny flowers which added grace to her finely chiseled lineaments overspread with the rose tint of youth and health. Florence's features were larger and more ir- regular than her sister's. Generally she was fine looking only; but at times she was regal- ly handsome. To-night, her black eyes and hair heightened by the effect of the deep car- nation of her cheeks and the rose hue of her dress, she might truthfully be called a magnifi- cent' woman. Even ugliness clothed in the garb of youth is charming, nay, paradoxical as it may seem, often beautiful. Mrs. Elson gazed on the fair young faces around her with just admiration, feeling elate at the possession of two such noble daughters. As soon as those necessary preliminaries of a young damsel's toilet were completed, the four descended the broad carpeted' stairway where Mr. Elson and Terence Staunton awaited them. The first escorted Julia Staunton and his wife, while the latter walked between Leda and Floience, to where Mr. and Mrs. Staunton   were receiving the compliments of the assemb- ling guests. The room was already quite full but as they were near the door, a' few words were ex- changed and the throng passed on. A massive sliding door entered from the right a room with a lofty ceiling.' The chimney was in a diagonal direction from the door, and on either side of it a beautiful arch led into another parlor of the same size. Opposite the entrance door was a room formed by one end of the cross of simi- lar dimensions, at the extreme end of which was an ornamented oriel window. The ceilings were embellished with snowy mouldings, and from the -centre of each room hung costly chandeliers with prismatic pendants, which to- -night glittered under the light of numberless wax candles. Tapestry carpets adorned the floors over which gorgeous flowers spread their brilliant hues. Damask, silk and fleecy lace curtains fell from gilded cornices over the win- dews and were looped aside with heavy tassels, and holders of crimson glass representing fus- chias. Chairs, tables, etag&es, ottomans, divans and sofas of rose wood were placed carelessly around, while pier glasses- lent their magic re- flective powers to amplify and beautify the fes- tive scene. The crowd was too dense in the first room during the early part of the evening for many to seat themselves, and the conversa- tion went on with a noisy hum like the swarm- ing of bees. After a time the throng dispersed through the rooms, and conversation became more agreeable because more particular be- tween groups of three or four. Some of the young people promenaded the piazza and gar- den, while others played on the grand piano unitil dancing begun, which, for some cause, was deferred to rather a laet hour. Near the oriel window was congregated a small coterie of those more grave in their thoughts, and one or two young people. Mr. and Mrs. Snowden were the centre of attraction to this group. Mr. Snowden was a man of very plain features'. In- fact, the connoisseur' in physiognomy would have pronounced each one taken separately very ugly yet the combi- nation of the whole was good, expressing be- nevoleace and benignity. He was of the me- dium height with rather an awkward carriageL His manners were genial and unobtrusive. On the whole he was - prepossessing. One felt in his presence that he was all, and more than he professed, and that under that quite exterior their was a firmness of character which corn- bated successfully the wiles of the world and   made him a victorious soldier of the cross. Mrs. Snowden was a small woman very soft, very sweet, and lisped out her words with a pious modulation of voice which might dupe the credulous, but reminded the discerning of the insincere purring of the feline creation. Miss Bab had installed herself a sort of female majordomo to the Snowden family, and intro- duced them to every one who came within range of her sharp voice. Mr. Elson and. Mr. Staunton were standing conversing with Mr. Snowden, giving some ac- count of Brunswick and its environs, when Mrs. Elson, Leda and Mrs. Staunton came up where Miss Bab and her charge were sitting with several other ladies. Mrs. Elson and her daughter were presented and they welcomed warmly the pastor's lady. "Brunswick is a very quiet place, Mrs. Snow- den," said Mrs. Elson, "but I hope you will find it an agreeable home. We shall do all we can to render your sojourn here happy." "I do not doubt I shall be so," purred the gentle little dame from behind an ermine topped fan, which she used with all the dexteri- ty of one of the academy drilled ladies of the Spectator. "Mr. Snowden and myself left a delightful home and numerous friends at R -, but he thought this field needed more laborers, and you know a pastor's wife has to use self- denial," and a faint sigh escaped her. "I feel much rejoiced that your husband came," said Mrs. Staunton. t'I consider church privileges a most essential blessing, especially to the young people." "So do I," said Leda, "we are almostheath- ens in this community." "Oh, how horrid! Do not say that, Miss Elsoni," said Mrs. Snowden. "I shall almost regret I came, though that would be impossible among so many charming acquaintances." Ralph de Coy and Julia Staunton joined the circle at this moment, and were presented to the minister and his "gude" dame. Mr. Elson, who was always agreeable beyond the precincts of home, and who was a well informed man, bant- ered Julia for a walk, which she accepted. "I know the young gallants will be breaking their hearts at seeing an old man like me bear off so lovely a prize," he said as he offered his arm. "Where shall we walk?" "It is a beautiful night; suppose we take a turn down the avenue-papa says we can dance directly, and 'then I must run away," and the gay girl skipped a step or two. ';Suppose I offer myself as a partner for the     evening, Miss Julia. Would it go very hard for you to devote yourself to an old man just one night?" "No," she replied, laughing; "but some of my beaux might expire from the pangs of the green-eyed monster. I must admit that you are more agreeable, but charity forbids that I should disregard their claims to continued existence." Julia went on leading Mr. Elson round the walks she thought handsomest, and showing him some of her pet plants, all of which he admired very much. His mood was almost gay, and she wondered if he was the same man, so morose and taciturn at home, and as report said, even cruel. As they stood for a moment beside the foun- tain, Railph de Coy and Leda passed them strolling in the pearly moonlight. "Oh, Mr. Elson," said Julia, "look at Leda! Is she not beautiful? And her piety exceeds -her beauty. And did you notice Florence, how magnificent she is to-night? If I were only a gentleman I would rob you of one of your daughters." A sinister expression instantly played over his face, taking the place of the agreeable smile which had illumined it a moment before. , "Doubtless they are pretty; but I think beauty is to be deprecated in women. It culti- vates vanity; and this frothy material covers up all the solid qualities which ought to adorn their hearts." "But," said Julia, "that may be so in the abstract. I am sure the cases in question pos- sess all that is admirable in heart and mind as well as in person. They are goodness itself." "TutI tutI I am afraid, as the old Italian proverb has it, 'They are so good, they are good-for-nothing.' I would give you the Ital- ian original, but I have forgotten it." "No matter, I do not speak Italian," said Julia and willing to provoke this cynic, she said, "you know, Mr. Elson, you would not let any one else say these things. I know you jest. My opinion of your daughters rests on the intercourse and observation of years. How, though, could they help being good when they have such a mother? You are blessed with an angel wife." "Miss Julia, I will reply in the words of a great author: 'Marriage in particular is a kind of counter apotheosis, or deification in- verted. When a man becomes familiar with his goddess or angel, as you term her, she quickly sinks into a woman.' Yes!" he hissed through his closed teeth, "often into more than a woman-a demon 1"   "If your flattering words are true, I trust I shall never marry,", said Julia, more se- riously. "I do but jest you know; so be not discour- aged. Hear the music," and, as he spoke, the band pealed forth its melody. "Come! our volant1 feet must keep time," and she hurried him to the house. Mr. Elson was not a bad man. He was up- right, strict, and honest in his dealings with others. Never frivolous; and dignified to aus- terity; but he possessed what Sidney Smith calls "hardness." That "want of minute at- tention to the feelings of others," and hence, marrying without love, he became a tyrant at home. "Miss Leda," said Ralph de Coy, as they walked and listened to the soul-inspiring music, "I do wish you would dance. Can I not per- suade you to favor me with your hand in a quadrille? Why is it that you do not dance and are unlike other people?" "You puzzle me with a multiplicity of ques- tions. I must begin chronologically to respond. First, then, I regret I cannot accept your invi- tation to dance. Ignorance must plead my ex- cuse." "Excuse me," he interrupted i "one so graceful as yourself must be a perfect sylph in the mazy dance. You have no conscientious scruples, I hope, against so healthful an exer- cise?" ," Not holding the office of censor, I have none for those who prefer dancing. I like to look at it a short while; but I cannot regard it as other than a frivolous waste of time. And are we not answerable to God for the wrong use of each moment?" "I suppose so; but I never reflected seri- ously about it, and yet I am your senior. How came you so grave?" Leda laughed in her own peculiar, musical way. "I never thought I was grave. It is natural you'should be thoughtless, the pamp- ered child of a doating grandmother. But, Mr. de Coy," she said more seriously, "there is so much that is sad in life if God gives us length of years-that each person should early , set about his work." "And what is that work?" he asked. "First, the salvation of their souls," she re-  plied in a sad, low tone; "Next, the assump- tion of those duties that surround each individ- I ual in their journey through the world. In short, to te a vigorous, energetic worker in the , great hive of life."   "Life would be a wearisome waste if there were no pleasures and all labor, as you say. Cannot these things be put off until youth be enjoyed'?" "Like Lotharius you would be a votary of amusement until the close of existence, when you would don the cowl as a sure passport to heaven. I think that the most perfect happi- ness is found in retirement. It is antagonistic to frivolity and 'an enemy to pomp and noise.' To be useful is enjoyment to me." "You are the queerest anomaly I ever saw," said Ralph, in a soliloquizing tone; "and yet I would not have you like other people. I wish I were more congenial with you-Miss Leda have, you solved my riddle?" "What riddle? I have no recollection of is." "Flattering certainly!" he said. "Why am I not happy?" "I do not know, Mr. de Coy. We like to imagine ourselves miserable, and are often self-made martyrs when possessing every rea- sohable blessing. Select some avocation and set about it industriously; dispense all the good you can, and above all have a conscious void of offense to God and man, and all the happi- ness this world can yield will be yours, 1 am sure." "I doubt it. You have not yet solved my riddle; but I thank you for your little sermon on ethics. I never before liked preaching; but this dissertation from you sounds well-I thank you, and mean to profit by it. Had I only beef{ blessed with a sister like you as a mentor, I would have made a better man ;" and Ralph bent on Leda a look of ufndisguised admuira- tion. "After all one who is disposed to do right needs not earthly aid: and mentors are tire- some creatures. Shall we go in? Mother will be wondering at my long absence." They proceeded to the house, and near the entrance encountered Terence and Florence. "  Leda,"' said the latter, "I am glad I met you: Mamma has been asking for you-I have been dancing and I am much fatigued. Mrs. Staunton says it will not be long before supper is announced." "Take care, Florence, you do not take cold. i The air is cool, and after dancing you will get ' chilled." "I will take charge of her," said Terence  "Iet us take a peep at the fountain ;" and they E continued their walk, leaving Mr. De Coy to 1 conduct Leda to her mother. 5   Terence turned into a sidewalk leading to a pretty little summer bower covered with vines, with rustic benches temptingly nestled within. "Sit down, Florence. I wish to talk to you. I shall not be here much longer. Father says I must go to college very soon. Are you very sorry I am going?" he continued, handing her to a seat and placing him self beside her. Yes, I am. How can you ask such a sim- ple question?" "I do not believe it, Florence," said he, looking in her face with his large, deep blue eyes. "You are too merry to feel sorrow for anything; but your sorrow would be a source of happiness to me." "Why? Terence you must have a cruel na-' ture to enjoy another's misery." "Oh, no! but, dear Flora," said he, taking her soft little hand, "I would be happy in your grief because I love yon ; and, darling, your sor- row would be a proof that you returned my love. Tell me, is it so?" and his arm stole around the girl's waist, and he drew her near his throb- bing heart. Florence's beautiful eyes 'were full of tears, looking like the " cloud dimmed stars of night," as she murmured an assent to her youthful lover's proffered love. "Dearest," he said, "you do not think it wrong for lovers to kiss?"And Terence pressed his lips to those of the girl beside him in one long, fond kiss. "We are very young, Flora," he continued, "but you know I have long loved you; and now when I am going awVay I could not leave before telling you and knowing if you love me. Life is before us, and father and mother both approve. Had I waited, my darling might have found some other lover." "NoT I would not,Z' she said, almost in a whisper. "But what shall I do when you are gone?" "I will write you every week, and you must write me long letters, my sweet Flora. I will not be gone very long, and when I come back we will be happy again-oh, so very happy! We shall never part again." "But, Terence, while you are absent, my sun will have set, and I shall endure one long night until your return." ' "God bless you, Flora you must cheer up, sweet one, I shall be so melancholy I cannot study. As it is, your bright eyes will come be- tween me and my lessons. Let us return to the house." And pressing one more kiss on her     ruby lips, Terence and his ladylove walked slowly back to the mansion. The betrothal of these two young people was but the culmination in words of what their. ac- tions and their eyes had uttered for years. Their love was like the melodious murmur of some meandering brooklet, over whose crystal bosom only the gentle ripple of exuberant fullness ap- peared. No rude storm-wave marred its beauty. Their natures were trusting and genial, and Florence sprightly, but never frivolous, deemed it no want of coyness to admit at once a love long sheltered in her heart. Ah I who, as they watched those two radiant faces-exponents of hearts bounding with unalloyed happiness- would augur anything but joy for them. The supper ended, the music again pealed forth its harmonious notes in time with the hurrying feet of the revelers. Good wishes and adieus at last were spoken. The throng of light pleasure-votaries dispersed for their homes with scarce a serious thought. The lights were extinguished, and all was still and solemn in the mansion so lately pul- sating with vitality, as it stood bathed in moon- light, with its magnificent proportions, its snowy columns, so many monuments of man's tasteful ingenuity; its dusky avenues, its dripping fountain, in the centre of which a grim Triton held a lonely vigil. But, two among the depart- ing guests had entered upon a new existence. Each carried an intensified, vivid consqious- ness, which hallowed every thought, sweetened every hope, mellowed every act. Henceforth there was something to live for. Youth, health, wealth, everything was set out before them. What more could they ask? Ah, Time! inexorable ocean, with thy Pro- tean phases I Who that launches his tiny bark, freighted with hope and piloted by youth on thy glassy bosom, augurs other than a success- ful voyage to the verdant shores of noontide existence? Thy mariners list not to thy mtir- muring whispers, nor to thy sullen moans, until thy treacherous,. angry waves surge over their frail craft, dashing it asunder, and leaving only the fragments of the wreck to show new voy- agers that others before have plowed thy track- less waters-and perished I CHAPTER VI. In an old field where the yellow broom sedge 'bent before the quickening, autumn breeze, stood a low-roofed cottage, with a rustic portico   upon which a weather-beaten rosebush hung its almost leafless arms. Two very small windows, without shutters, adorned the front of the house, which had once been white wash- ed; but time, who lays his dusty fingers on all created things, had left his defacing print upon it, and its appearance now was grey and som- bre. The cottage comprised three rooms. Let us enter the parlor, a small apartment with a large chimney and high, narrow mantel, upon which a clock 'ticked unceasingly its busy strokes. A cheerful fire blazed upon the' hearth, before which lay a brinded cat enjoying a cozy nap. A few chairs and a table with pa- pers and a few religious books completed the furniture of the room. Beside the fire, in one corner, sat a lady past the middle age. She, too, was dozing; for her knitting lay upon her lap with her hands languidly clasped upon it, while the ball of yarn had rolled near the cen- tre of the floor. "Bless me!" she exclaimed, starting and industriously plying the knitting needles, as if in haste to compensate for lost time. "Have I been nodding, Bessie?" "It would seem so, aunt Charlptte," replied :a shabbily dressed woman about thirty years of 'age. "My coming in appenavid to startle you." "I get sleepy of an afternoon, when I sit still," slhe said, yrwnigi  "Where is Tom 7"'  "I guess be went oBxt to meeBlanche. He promised to wilk witlh her to get some nuts to- day,", said Bessie.' "What 'airs that- family used to put on, and Mrs. REenel still carrids her head high." , "They will not snub their equals long. Peo- ple say, old Ravenel's sudden death was a great blow to their prospects. They won't have much when the estate is settled." - "It may not be much for them, but I would like to be as well off," said Bessie. "I 6am so I tired of this working life I Aunt Charlotte, did r it never strike your mind that Blanche Ravenel is a vain, weak girl, and her fondness for us - might be turned to our advantage?" I-"How?" inquired Mrs. Slugg, taking out her snuff-box and making a vigorous dip into it, she placed the brush in her mouth with an attentive air. "By making a match between her, and Tom."      ' "Why, Bessie I Tom is only eighteeni and , Blanche is near your age. It could never be." 'I think it can be, though, aunt Charlotte.   Blanche gets on bad enough with her stuck-up mother. Old Mrs- Ravenel is- in her dotage, and does anything we -say. Now, I think; we could pet Blanche, and flatter her, and -estrange her from her mother still more than she'now is. Tom is handsome, which goes a great way with women. Just think, if we can bring it about we will be well enough off to live with- out working, and then we can hail from the higher circles." "Dear Bessie, you always were a smart girl before you married Bob Talbot, God rest him I I am growing old, I never think of anything I ought these days. How shall we begin? I like your plan the more as I think about it. People. say Blanche has a very rich brother across the water, and he will be in the way." "Leave it all to me, aunt. I do not think the brother will trouble us. Blanche says they have not heard from him for a long time. I suppose he is dead; and as to his wealth, I have little belief. Such things are always ex- aggerated. We will hurry things to a crisis." About six months previous to the foregoing conversation, Mr. Ravenel, who had been somewhat infirm, had died from apoplexy. His death was felt as keenly by Blanche as a person of her vain and volatile nature was cap- able of. Mr. Ravenel had always bestowed such injudicious indulgence on her that she missed him the more from  her selfishness. His wealth had diminished during the last years of his life. He had intrusted his business much to overseers who flattered his self-love and squan- dered his money, Blanche's greatest regret at lier grandfather's decease was the curtailment of her lavish expenditure; and 'her disappoint- ment was intense when she learned she was not the heiress she supposed. Mr. Ravenel had taken her each winter to a city where she enjoyed all the pleasures and gaities of life. Her ap- petite for them was sated; still. the solitude of country life was intensely disagreeable. In the absence of other employment, she had become very sociable with Mrs. Slugg and her son, and Mrs. Talbot. This intimacy was enjoyed rather clandestinely, because Blanche felt instinctively that her mother would disapprove of any inter- cotirse6 beyond that of polite exchange of occa- sional visits. Blaniche spent much of her time with her grandmother, whose increasing years and decreptitude formed a very good excuse for her devotion. Through Blanche's nature there ran a certain vein of hypocrisy which caused her to appear better to others than she really was. The perfect antithesis, of her mother in   most things, she yet valued her mother's good opinion, and frequently practiced little decep- tions to gain her approbation. Her visits to her grandmother afforded opportune occasion for enjoying the company of the bluggs; but she was very careful to mention them only incident- ally to her parent. Not very long after Paul Ravenel's departure for Europe, Mr. Slugg, a very respectable, hard working mechanic of the middle class, had purchased a small piece of land of Mr. Ravenel, not very far from his residence. Mr Slugg'shealth was not good, and with the hoarded savings of years he purchased this little homestead, think- ing a farmer's life would renew his failing cot- stitution. His wife was a kind, plain woman, but of a coarse, masculine nature, which, like the oak of the forest, stands sturdy and alone,' needing not exterior aid or fostering compan- ionship from its mates to promote its growth or luxuriance. Mr. Slugg did not long enjoy his new. home. He gradually languished fionom a slow disease until death happily released him from his earthily bondage. Mr. Ravenel and his daughter-in-law had been very kind to this family, and where neighbors were not numerous there was a kindly intercourse of occasional visits, though not on a basis of perfect equality. Mrs. Ravenel heard regularly from Paul dur- ing the first years of his absence, though his letters came seldom. For the past eighteen months not a line had been received, and she endured all the torturing anxieties attendant on a state pf suspense, heightened by a mother's ardent affection for an only son. Mr. Ravenel's desire to see his grandson had become more in- tense toward the close of his life, and his inten- tion was to visit Europe -the ensuing summer with Blanche, his idol; but death cut short his plans. This was another disappointment to Blanche, whose romantic notions of European life had culminated in colossal proportions as she neared the time when her day dreams would become real. She wished to see Paul; but she wished to see the great world with its fascinating allurements with a far more eager desire. To pacify her present discontent, Blanche concluded, in the absence of larger' game, to bag the lesser and enjoy a sly flirtation with Tom Shlgg. Tom Was a handsome youth, frail and rather soft, with a fair forehead, blue eyes and light colored hair. In person he was tall and well made. His intellectual capacities were moderately good, but only slightly developed by a common education. He was the male     counterpart of the fashionable, novel reading miss, so numerous in modern times, and was exactly the element from which an acute ro- mance writer could form a brilliant hero. Arithmetically speaking, this would be setting him down as a cipher. Blanche considered her charms potent enough to form something out of this nothing; at least she would test their efficacy, and this would afford occupation. There was no parity between them except in the feeling of levity and its concomitant novel reading. Tom's intercourse with Blanche was characterized by a punctilious deference to her wishes and opinion, at once flattering and gra- tifying to her volatile mind. "Mother, here is Miss Blanche," said Tom entering the front room of the cottage some weeks after Bessie and Mrs. Slugg had discuss- ed the preliminaries of a matrimonial alliance between the two. "t Glad to see you, always, Miss Blanche I Do sit down andtwarm your feet. Tom mend the fire." "I am quite comfortable," said Blanche. "Walking fast kept off the cold. How are you this afternoon, ma'am, and where is Mrs. Tal- bot?" "I feel very well. Tom go and hunt Bessie," and the youth left the room in search of his cousin. "I hope you had a pleasant walk. Where did you meet my boy?" "He came to grandma's for me. I get tired sitting all day nursing grandma and find a walk pleasant. I suspect you consider me trouble- some, Mrs. Slugg, taking up your son's time: but he is very kind." "Lal no. He has nothing to do, and is al- ways at your service. I hope you will make him useful whenever he can serve you. We are under many obligations to your family." "Scarcely. I see nothing to render you so," said Blanche. At this moment Bessie came in and greeted the young lady warmly "How glad I am you came over I Aunt Charlotte and I were speak- ing of you and wishing you would come often. It is very lonely in the country." "Yes, I detest country life, obt grandma is old and would never be content to live in a city." "Miss Blanche, what a charge she must be to you I Do let me help you nurse her. I can go over every afternoon and then you can go to walk. Tom here will feel honored to go along with you. Your health will suffer if you are onfined all the time to a sick room."   "I have not been feeling well, and I mean sometime to accept your kind offer, Mrs. Tal- bot. But every-afternoon would be trespassing too much on your time."     "Oh, no I I shall be delighted to serve you. You are too formal. Do call me Bessie. I, am sure we have known each other long enough to be sociable." "Very well, Bessie," said Blanche; "come over to-morrow and sit with grandma. Tom says he knows a beautiful walk which leads to the highest part of the bluff and I wish to see it. If mamma should come to grandma's I will send you word, for then I would not like to leave." "Of course," replied Bessie, and' she gave Blanche a look which said I understand. Blanche rose to go, and Tom followed her out. Bessie walked to the gate.  "Miss Blanche, I am sorry you go so soon, but take care of Tom. I wish you would take him in charge. A young lady like you can do so much to polish a rough youth." "I. do not think he needs burnishing," Blanche said, laughing, as she left the gate. "Thanks for the compliment, Miss Blanlche, I will treasure it among my valuables," said Tom. ,Blanche walked rapidly as it was growing late. . Before parting she had arranged with Tom that he was to read aloud to her during the long winter evenings. He had offered to do this for her amusement and his improvement. Bessie Talbot frequently went with Tom to Mrs. Ravenel's, and by assiduous attentions had completely won the old lady heart. Mrs. Ravenel, junior, was left much alone, at nights especially. When she remarked to Blanche how little of her time was spent at home, Blanche urged her grandmother's infir- mities and promised to be more with her mother. Mrs. Ravenel would have given up house. keeping and lived with the old lady, but there was an antagonism between their natures. Old Mrs. Ravenel had never liked her daughter-in- law. The temperament of the elder lady was too volatile to permit her to endure passively. the infliction of any person whose course of conduct was regulated by the compass of duty. She got tired of seeing the needle point always to the north pole of religion. The slight, na- tural variation of the magnet was not sufficient to act as spice to her life. She never invited Eliza Ravenel to live with her, years ago, and was obliged to conceal much of her dislike; but   now her growing years rendered her less politic, and her aversion for Mrs. Ravenel showed it- self by petulent querulousness. Blanche did not altogether elude her mother's watchful eye, or dupe her regarding her inti- macy with the Sluggs. Mrs. Ravenel felt satis- fied that all was not as she desired, but of the extent of the intercourse she had no idea. Several Atimes when her-mother remonstrated, Blanche had retorted in terms not very respectful, that she was old enough to judge of her companions. That Tom Slugg was a fine boy, very bright and naturally refined, and in, the monotony of -country existence he was a kind, interesting companion. At first Blanche's encouragement to Tom was purely to gratify self-love. She would have felt angered at the suggestion of his being her beau. But gradually she became accustomed to antici- pate with pleasure their readings and walks. The walls which aristocracy rears to keep off plebian foes were levelled by degrees. Sophistical reason hinted that this was a democratic nation. There was nothing in blood; everybody could rise by proper efforts, and make a Dame to grace posterity. Bessie's artful attentions aided in pacifying Blanche's pride until she looked up- on Mrs. Slugg as a rough gem, whose misfor- tune deprived of a skillful lapidary to polish in- to a sparkling jewel. She was scarcely aware how much friendship she felt for Tom until her mother's opposition sanctified him in her es- teem to an exaltation as great and as unreason- able as that of those Stylites or Pillar Saints who, in the earlier days of Christianity, testified their devotion to God by standing during their useless lives as living capitals on marble columns of folly. In the latter part of the winter, Tom, who possessed a very delicate constitution, suffered severely from the effects of cold. Blanche was miserable. Our natural tendency to nurture to excess what is dependent upon us, hed her to express the extent of her feelings for her pro- tege under his affliction, which otherwise she might have concealed. Bessie, ever on the alert, watched with joy the exhibition of Blanche's insane affection for this boy nearly young enough for her son. Bessie was to diplomatic to permit Blanche to see that she probed her heart and touched her  'secret, but she played upon her feelings, con- y stantly leading Blanche to a still greater display i of her mania. Tom felt greatly flattered by the attentions v bestowed on him by one whom he considered ]   , elevated above him in station, and was willing clay in the hands of the ingenious Bessie who fashioned his actions to her notions of existing emergencies. During his convalescence she had urged him to propose a matrimonial - alliance to Blanche; but he declared that it would be absurd  presumption in him l to do so; that Miss  Blanche's atten- tions arose from a heart abounding in philan- thropy, not from any particular affection for him. He loved her, but his love could only meet with disappointment. Bessie, surprised Fand provoked at this rebellion, determined to take the matter in her own hands, asking mere- ly acquiescence in her plans from Tom. She represented to Blanche that Tom's health was irrevocably ruinded, assuring her positively that she believed he would linger but a few months. There was but one hope of lengthen- ing his life and that rested in her hands. "Oh, Blanche, think how wretchedly desolate and poor aunt Charlotte will be if Tom is taken I I feel assured she cannot survive-and I shall be left alone in the world!" and Bessie's tears flowed fast over her imaginary isolation. "How can I avert it, Bessie? I am sure I am willing to aid you in any thing reasonable." "That's a dear girl," she replied as soon as she could command composure. "You know, Blanche, Tom adores you; and unless you con- sent to be his, he must die. Do you not love him? I sometimes have thought so, as you hung over him in his illness. Do say yes." "What will mamma say?" exclaimed Blanche and she covered her face with her hands. "It cannot be, Bessie. I love your cousin, but our stations in life are too widely severed. Ask no more." "Ask no morel You are cruel, Blanche Ravenel. 'Why did you come here and bestow so much care and attention on my cousin? Was it for no other purpose than to hurl him down to destruction, thereby robbing a widowed mother of her only child? You refuse him, know that the tidings will be his death warrant. Your hands will deal the fatal blow. I shall go now," said Bessie rising, "and tell him you scorn his love. Poor boy Il" and again Bessie burst into tears. Blanche clutched her dress, anmd said, "No, Bessie I Let me reflect for a day or two before you mention our conversation. Good bye, I must go." Blanche hurried away, fearing to trust her weak resolution to resist evil so near its source. During her walk home, the contending com-     batants, love and duty, battled hard for con- quest over her will. Love would have been victor over tottering duty had not the latter brought as auxiliaries worldly station, pride of birth, education and refinement. Each of these held momentary sway, representing their claims with the most irrefragable precision, and show- ing that the adoption of love would be subver- sive of happiness, if linked with an object so far her inferior. Then love pleaded hard, com- ing in the guise of a fragile, youthful boy, a tender plant, having, no vigor apart from the genial strength of her superiority. On Blanche walked, more and more rapidly, as if fleeing from pursuing enemies, and hoping to leave them behind; but still they struggled until she reached her mo/ther's gate and sought her own room. There 'the conflict was unbearable, and she sought various employments to drive thought away. To her mother's inquiries about her ab- straction she gave indisposition as an excuse. Mrs. Ravenel had heard of Mr. Slugg's illness, and paid them many attentions. She had gone herself to offer her services, if needed, and her remarks about the family and Tom's condition. were torturing to Blanche's lacerated nerves. After a few days, daring which time she had studied every phase of the question before her, she concluded she would adopt the right and refuse an alliance she was convinced would be repugnant to her family and irreconcilable with the prejudices of her training. Accordingly she  wrote Bessie a kind but deliberate and deter- mined letter denying her request. For a short time after this epistle was dispatched Blanche felt relieved; a pressure lifted from the heart  and she resumed some of her cheerfulness and elasticity of feeling. Hearing no tindings of Tom she began to wonder how her letter affect- ed him; if he were oblivious of the blow she had dealt his affections, or was he prostrate and pining for her presence. Again in fancy she saw him stretched on the languishing couch, wan and pale, almost in death's embrace, need- ing nothing but her outstretched hand to snatch him from the opening tomb. As this vision rose, her heart froze with horror; an icy chill crept through her veins, and she felt tempted to send an assent to pour its healing balm on the poor sufferer's heart. A week passed slowly, during which time Blanche heard only incidental tidings of Thm. She was wretched, but pride forbade her seeking these people whom she could not dignify into other than good, well meaning, middle class persons, how-   ever much her heart had gone astray in its blind flight after the boy-god, not more blind than the mass of his votaries. At length, one day, when she had taken, a walk over to her grandma's, whose claims on her time she seemed wholly to have ignored, a little negro thrust a crumpled note into her hand as she was entering the house. It was from Bessie Talbot, stating that she would es- teem it a great favor if Blanche would go over and see her. There was something of impor- tance to relate, and no refusal would be taken. Blanche felt that she ought not to go; but the vain desire to see for herself how much power she wielded over this youth, who held, in defiance of the remonstrance of icy reason, complete possession of her affectiOns, urged her on; and soothing her grandmother's complaints at her neglect, she put on her bonnet and left, promising the old lady to return anon. A rapid walk brought her through the fields to Mrs. Slugg's cottage, where she soon gained admit- tance. Mrs. Slugg was in the parlor. She greeted Blanche with. frigid solemnity. This was irri- tating to Blanche; but she suppressed her feel- ing and asked for Bessie who she stated had sent for her. "She will be in. directly; sit down, Miss Blanche." Before Blanche could comply, Bessie came in and throwing her arms around Blanche, she kissed her, saying in a low tone, "How kind of you to come!" and she added in a whisper, "Tom is much worse, and wished to see you once more." Then aloud she said, "Let us walk in the garden. I have been shut up so long." They left the room and went in- to the garden. "Blanche, I knew you would come. I know you have a noble heart and would not refuse to see my cousin. I think he cannot last long, and it would be a gratification to him to look at you once more." Bessie's tears choked her voice, and Blanche felt her own eyes fill at the cheerless prospect. "Come," said Bessie, "let us go in. Aunt Charlotte does not know I intend to take you to see Tom, but he expects you." Blanche followed Bessie into a small shed room, scrupulously tidy. Upon a low white couch half reclined the sick' Tom. The room was somewhat darkened, but Blanche was startled at the visible ravages illness, had wrought upon him in a few weeks. His face was pale to transparency; dark circles 'sur-   rounded his sunken eyes, and his thin hand looked white and shrivelled as it rested on the coverlet. "Tom, I have brought Blanche to see you," said Bessie. A faint glow overspread his face and there was an irradiation of his eye as he placed his hand in that of Blanche. Her voice seemed to forsake her, and after a few common place re- marks Bessie invented some ready excuse to leave the room. In a quiet suburb of Rome, a little removed from the roar and turmoil of the Eternal City, was a large and lofty room whose architecture carried the imagination back to the days of the Middle Ages. This room was adorned with all the costly and elegant luxuries that wealth could bestow. Its walls were embellished by magnificent paintings, copies from many of the notable specimens left by the old masters. Several easels were visible holding half finished paintings. A stand bearing, all the appurte- nances needed by an artist was near, while statues shone in spotless white from niches in the walls. Before one of the easels stood a young man in the prime of early manhood. Tall, slender and well made, he had a face ex- pressing self-reliance and decision, crowned by a broad, open forehead, around which clustered masses of soft, glossy, raven curls. A jetty beard shaded the lower part of his face, while a pair of large, thrilling, pensive black eyes look- ed from under regularly traced brows. He held a'book in his left hand which he had been read- ing apparently; but at this moment his eye wan- dered vacantly over the figures on the canvas be- fore him. A slight frown flitted across his brow. Soon he resumed reading a late number of Black. wood's Magazine. The door of the studio open-  ed and a servant ushered in a gentleman. t "  Hr. Howard," said the stranger, handing t his card. "Wishing to spend a few weeks in c Rome, Mr. Carlyle was kind enough to give me A this letter of introduction to you."   t Mr. Howard invited Mr. Edsall to be seated, c and read the letter which bespoke his kind at- I tentions to the bearer,          t "I had heard so much of your studio, Mr. e Howard, that I felt a great desire to call and C look at your paintings." Mr. Howard bowed, and with a peculiar X smile said, "I thank you for the interest ex- d pressed in me. I shall take great pleasure in a showing you my pgintings. Only a few of them  tl are my own work." -The two sauntered slowly a]   d along discussing the merits of the works of art e which met their view. Mr. Edsall was a highly cultivated gentleman with a catholic taste for beauty wherever seen, either in nature or- art, and with a passionate e love for travel and adventure. He had pro- s jected a visit to the Crimea, the scene of the O Russian war. Mr. Howard mentioned a desire - he had long cherished of going to the Caucasian O regions, if it were found practicable. "Can you extend your travels with me?" asked Mr. Howard, in reply to Mr. Edsall's I proposal that they should travel together. "I , desire studying the perfection of female beauty 3 in its native fastnesses." "Fortunately," said Mr. Edsall, "at this 1 time, I am a gentleman of leisure. I presume the chieftain Schamyl would give us a hospit- able reception," he added, laughing. "What is the subject in contemplation?" he, asked, as they came before the easel he had found Mr. Howard standing near when he first entered. "When completed, it will represent the storming of the heights of the Alma by the allied forces, on the 20th of September, 1854- tl e first scene in the tremenduous drama of the Crimean war." In the foreground of the picture, lay the ghastly forms of two Britons killed by horrible and peculiar wounds, described with life-like fidelity by the gallant Major E. Bruce Hamley, in his graphic "Story of the Campaign "--the corporal of the 55th and the soldier near by, with the calm smiling features of men who die instantly from cannon balls in the high flush of hope and excitement.  By these stiffened corpses pressed Major Hamley with Wade- house's battery, the village and the little river before them ; and beyond rose the formidable heights, oni which were planted the strong bat- teries, and stood the embattled phalanxes of the mighty Muscovite-the ruler of an empire of gigantic dimensions and vast military power. White puffs of musketry marked the advance of the allied skirmishers; and the incomplete canvas revealed, in sublime touches of Mr. Howard's skillful pencil, the stern struggle be- tween three of the most powerful nations of the earth over the fate of the waning crescent of Constantinople.  I   ; The morning passed rapidly away, and Mr. Edsall took leave of Mr. Howard with the un- derstanding that they would begin their travels at the expiration of three weeks-which interim they consumed in exploring the celebrities of ancient and modern Rome.     CHAPTER VII. Terence Staunton and Florence Elson had en- joyed all the happiness attendant on younglove in the morning of life, during the brief space inter- venting between its avowal and his departure for college. Terence had informed his parents of his engagement; and while they loved Florence and rejoiced in the prospect of her being their daughter, they regretted that it could not have been postponed until his education was com- pleted. Florence confided her love to her mother and Leda. The announcement to her father could be made at some future time. She part- ed from Terence with the promise of alfrequent interchange of letters, which passed through Julia Staunton's hands to avoid gossip. Ralph de Coy had gone northward also, ob- taining Leda's consent to a friendly correspon- dence. The winter had been one of unusual dreariness and cold. Leda was much and often indisposed, and she felt the loss of Mr. de Coy's society more than she cared to admit. His letters were always a pleasant change in her monotonous existence 5 but there was in the correspondence a certain restraint and for- mality which detracted somewhat from its in- terest. The discussion of various books perused by both afforded a topic upon which there was always congeniality and freedom from reserve; but Leda had suffered more, and from that suf- fering sprung grave reflection, There were sorrows daily endured, too, which cast their shadow around her heart, upon which silence set its seal. 5Mr. de Coy was mentally her in- ferior. Prosperity of the affections and disem- bariassment in pecuniary matters left undevel- oped his capacities and gave him an elasticity and fullness of spirits which could little rnder- stand the gravity in Leda's character, and which appeared to him perfectly unnatural. She was beautiful; she was elevated far above every other woman he had ever seen, and be- cause unique he loved her with all the devo- tion of a nature possessed of most of the noble virtues inherent in man. His letters, which in the main uttered only friendly sentiments, often hinted at deeper feeling. This Leda never appeared to notice. She liked Mr. de Coy the best of all the gentlemen she had ever met; but if her sensations were those of love, they, as yet, were of the passive   order, and she was too conscientious to give encouragement to a lover merely to gratify that idle vanity which unfortunately pervades the hearts Qf so many women. In the latter part of the winter Ralph -had re- ceived his diploma as a practitioner of medi- cine. Gladly he welcomed the hour which brought him home. His grandmother was feeble and confined much to the house; but Leda who had promised Ralph to see her oftener, had enlivened many an hour otherwise tedious to her. Mrs. Hume's attachment for her young -friend rivalled that of her partial grandson, and she had often inquired of himn how he could re- main insensible to the merits af so charming a girl. Ralph would playfully reply, that he could not afford to take a wife. "And then, grand- mother, I cannot leave you." "No; but, my dear boy, my house is large and my heart is larger. I have room enough for you and a granddaughter, too." Ralph laughed at this sally; and gaily whistling a tune, he left the house for his office. One day Florence stood dreamily looking out of the window. It was a cloudy day, and her spirit seemed to partake somewhat of the hue of the dull, leaden sky. Her accustomed letter from Terence had got come. The curtain was partially over the window, concealing her form from any one without. Leda was at school with the little boys, and her mother was attending to some domestic employment. A slight noise in the garden caused the musing maiden to look to the spot whence it proceeded. There stooped a man, his head bowed, while his iron gray hair waived in the wind, and in his hand was a rose 5 bush, the moist earth clinging to its roots. Her beautiful pet moss rose-and the man-was her father He rose; glanced around, walked ra- pidly to the fence and threw the rose bush over after trampling upon its roots. Florence look- ed on with a stare of surprise and horror de- picted in every lineament of her countenance. She covered her face with her hands, and burst into a shuddering fit of tears. Was this then the solution of the mysterious death of her flowers? Could it be possible that her own father was the cruel foe to all her innocent. floricultural pleasures I What cause prompted such persecution? The contemplation of such unnatural conduct was wretchedness itself. As her feelings calmed down, she could understand why her mother was so shocked at the remarks made, some months before, against the destroyer of her plants.   Florence was generous; she was impulsive; she was quick tempered, prone to resent a wrongi but, in this instance, she determined to take no notice of her loss. Her mother's reticence should beheld inviolable, and the respect due to her father should restrain any manifestation of anger at a wrong her whole nature revolted at. "' Yes, I, too, can suffer like mother ; and I can learn to be strong." Leda began at first teaching her two brothers only, but had been induced gradually to enlarge her school; and this enabled her to supply her own wants, and aid her. mother. Her father grew more cross and rigid in his narrow minded economy as years increased upon him. Her labors gave very little time for rest or recrea- tion. The constant tension upon her nerves affected her health, and she often felt a fainting weariness of flesh and spirit. But there always is a fountain whose ever gushing waters cool and slake the thirst of the labor-burdened soul. This she sought and found, and its healing principle sustained her through all things. It was one of those beautiful, clear, balmy days in February, when- "Life flows afresh; and young-eyed Health exalts The whole creation round." Her pupils had been unusually troublesome; and Leda felt ill and fatigued, as she left the school on her walk home, turning a corner she encountered Ralph de Coy. "I am glad I met you. How ill you look, Miss Leda!" exclaimed he. "I am suffering from a headache this after- noon. I often have it but soon it passes away, and I feel as well as ever." "Let us take a walk. The delightful spring air may benefit you." Leda acquiesced, and they turned down a slope in the direction of one of the shady country roads. ;'Miss Leda you are killing yourself. Let me prescribe for you. You need rest, and must take it to bring back the bloom of health to your cheeks." "I sometimes feel wearied when my pupils are not studious. Teaching is grating on one's nerves; but I like it, and I would not be with- out employment for any consideration. I should de miserable." "But, Miss Leda, youth is the season for pleasure. It comes but once. Why not enjoy it, and abandon the school-room and the en- deavor to beat knowledge into the heads of stupid school boys? You have no need of such exertion, and can find enough to do at (I   home if you are determined to have occupa- tion."  1"Perhaps so, Doctor. But I never could endure the thought of being a drone. My am- bition has ever been to be of some utility-to benefit my fellow beings in some way." "And by so doing destroy yourself, and fill an early grave. Recently I have seen you but seldom, Miss Leda, and you do not even come to see grandmother now. Why is it?" "Because she does not need me. Your presence is sufficient for her happiness." "Will you take a seat on this log, Miss Le- da? I feel in a romantic humor, and we can watch the sun set." Leda sat down and Ralph placed himself near her. - "You have not asked me any of my plans since I came home. You have not even en- quired if I intend residing in this place. Ah, Miss Leda, I thought you were a friend and felt an interest in me!" "And so I am. But I am not given to catechizing friends. I await their pleasure to speak of their plans." i Shall I tell you mine?" asked the gentle- man. "Yes, if you feel like it. I will be all at- tention. I presume you will settle where there is less health than this town exhibits." "Certainly, or I shall starve for want of pa- tients. Then I must seek a less enlightened locality where I can play off my empiricism with less lieklihood of discovery. Miss Leda, do you remember that twice I asked you to solve for me the mystery why I was not happy? The time has arrived when I will tell you; and then I will discuss my plans. Has your heart neier whispered to you that I never could pos- sess happiness unless as the recipient of your love? Ah't Leda, with all this world could be- stow, I should still be alone and wretched un- less you love me, and promise to be mine I Your image has reigned supreme over me for years. Your influence*, your beautiful exam- ple, felt even when you were not seen, have checked me in many an act of folly. Is this doing nothing for your fellow beings?" "Dr. de Coy," said Leda, "I never trifled with any gentleman's affections by false en- couragement. I prize your friendship, and have felt a deep interest-a great regard-for you; but I have never loved. You who em- body so many attributes to enlist woman's heart, have elicited from me only friendship; and I cannot marry without love." "Dear Leda, if you feel a deep interest in     me, a great regard, that is all I desire. Love will come afterward; and I can make you happy. Do not refuse. I shall be lost without you.  , You think so now," she said; "but were I to go to. the altar without love, that very fact would be the basis of wretchedness to both. You would never cease to censure a weakness which assented to your forming a union with- out love; and I should be a miserable wife." A slight shiver shook her frame. She, poor girl, had daily evidence at home of the agony endured/from an ill assorted marriage. Man may fly from an unhappy home. But woman I It is her bastile, and its torture is not less than that felt in the Inquisitorial dungeons. "Leda," said Ralph, as they rose. "Would that the-acts of all women were measured like yours, by the great principle of truth. Per- haps you are right ; but henceforth let me seek your society, share your thoughts, and hope your regard may ripen into love. I cannot give you up I A devotion to you for years deserves some reward. Will you grant this boon?" '"Yes; but should I see some other who wins my love, for you know we cannot compel the course of such sentiment, will you aquit me of trifling?" .    - "Yes ; and I will be noble enough to sacri- fice my own heart to see you happy." How handsome he looked, as he urged his cause and expressed a consent to self-immola- tion. ," One more boon, hhe said, "' and I will ask no more; Call me Ralph. Dr. de Coy sounds well from others, but from your lips it freezes my-blood." "Very well," said Leda, in a quiet tone; and the two walked home. There was no co- quetry, no vanity in Leda's heart. She was a true woman; and in all good faith she left Ralph's claim an open question, feeling that she could make no better selection for a part- ner. Love only was wanting. Will that come and set its kindling seal onthose two glorious young souls, binding them in one indivisible whole? Much'of Ralph's time, when not profession- ally engaged,' was passed in Leda's society. They walked and rode together. Ralph with true delicacy of perception refrained from pressing his suit to the lady of his love, pre: ferring, rather, that her affection should owe its growth to the observation of whatever- ex- cellencies of character he possessed, than to pertinacious importunity. He was an astute reasoner and selected the most direct path to a   woman's heart. How many coxcombs draw down defeat on their own' hopes of happi- ness by unfurling the flag of amatory persecu- tion? In one of the long monotonous roads pecu- liar to the seaboard region, bordered on either side with tall, slender, erect, longleafed pines, and remarkable for nothing but the loose white sand, which makes travel tedious and difficult, were two equestrians. The gentleman was young and handsome, land his face expressed profound pleasure as he bent forward talking eagerly to his compan- ion. The fair creature beside him was mounted upon a spirted white horse which curvetted and champed the bit in a restive manner, as if im- patient of the rider's control. The lady wore a dark green habit ornamented with black trim- mings, which fitted her rounded form to per- fection. Her hair swept back from a clear in- tellectual forehead, showing the face, flushed from the glow of exercise, to better advantage; while a plumed hat of velvet rendered her 'beauty complete. "Miss Leda, how well you look I Exercise agrees with you better than the noisy buzz of a village school-room. Would that I could at- tribute your improvement to another cause!" Leda laughed, while the tint on her cheek deepzeed slightly at this delicate allusion to the engrossing subject of contemplation between them. - Willing to escape the theme she asked how he prospered professionally. "My field, is not very extensive, either for displaying my MEsculapian powers, or for gath- ering a golden harvest. It is a question in my mind which phase is most agreeable; the love of the art, or the love of the gain." i"Of course, the philanthropic side is more alluring.. What higher delight could we reap than that which springs. from the feeling of being a healer of the maladies of mankind?" said the lady. 1; Very charming, certainly; but however much ailment benevolence gives the soul, it yields nothing to the physical," said Ralph, in the same laughing tone. "But seriously speak- ing, I wish we resided in a more populous re- gion. A man's energies oxydize unless burn- ished by the attrition of constant, useful employ- ment. It is really lamentable to see a location like Brunswick actually decaying for want of en- terprising inhabitants. Think of it: The soil is fertile, producing most of the fruits, many grains, and yielding in abundance two of the great staples, 'cotton and rice. Lumber and   turpentine can be had in plenty; and there lies," said he, pointing in the direction of the river, " one of the most magnificent harbors in the United States for the commercial needs of dense population and overflowing trade." "But the surrounding country is, in many parts, too barren except for gardening on spots artificially fertilized, and' agriculture on a small scale among the poor. A large population could be fed only from foreign supplies." "That would all be thought of at the right time. If our people had the energy of their Northern brethren to build railroads, all con- verging to this point, we could have a city and send our exports direct to Europe, instead of shipping them on a small scale to New York. By so doing we swell her already mammoth proportions, and have our cotton pass through the hands of so many dealers that the income is tolled into a very 'moiety before it reaches our hands." "Still," said Leda, "while I would rejoice in seeing our town transform its slender envi- rons into the proportions of an immense city, I feel a pride in the growth of New York. We are one great nation, and as such should enrich each other. We, of the South are an agricul- tural people, they are commercial. We furnish the crude material; they supply our wants in manufactories; what more ought we to de- sire." "Nothing, I suppose; yet I am not content. Did you know Brunswick was rich also in fos- sil remains? I have examined some with inter- est. Are you fond of such antediluvian relics? And are you fond of conchology and all the other ologies which have served to distract the investigating mind of man since the days of Adam?" "I am in general, but not in particular," said Leda, "because I am ignorant of their excellencies. I believe I am too much of a utilitarian to be a lover of abstract theories." "Our town rises above mere theory, it pre- sents some very curious specimens of fossils of the genus homnoof the feminine species. Your friend Miss Bab Snuhbb is one of them. She is always, as was said of one of the Presidents of the United States, in the wrong place at the wrong time.' She reminds me of the saying of one of our modern Philosophers who compared human life to a table pierced with holes, each of which has a pin made exactly 'to fit it, but which pins being stuck in hastily, and without selection, chance leads inevitably to the most awkard mistakes. How often do we see the   round man stuck in the three-cornered hole? Miss Bab is always whereone does not wish her." "How wicked you are, Ralph!" said Leda, laugh'ng heartily. "Miss Bab is a most exem- plary woman." "She is an inverted Dead Sea apple, ashes without, beauty within. It tempts a man to be wicked to have so fair a monitor," and Ralph gazed on Leda with a face beaming with admi- ration and love. How musical his name sound- ed from her sweet lips, and his yearning heart whispered, she must care something for him, or she would not be so gracious. Reaching an abrupt curve. in the road they came suddenly upon a man riding a spirited black horse, which sprung quickly aside. Le- da's horse took fright, and wheeling round she was thrown. Dr. de Coy in attempting to seize the bridle and avert her fall, spurred his horse which reared and fell backward without his being able to extricate his feet from the stirrups. The force of the, fall, and the weight of the fright- ened horse crushed his arm, and he lay as if dead. Leda was unhurt, while the stranger, who was the author of the mischief, after aiding her to rise, went to the assistance of the wound- ed man. With much difficulty he disentangled the furious animal, and sought to find the extent of the rider's injury. Leda was horror stricken. She stood with' pallid face; and her palsied lips refused utterance. The man after some examination of the limbs, saw that the arm was fractured. Placing his ear to the heart, he said to Leda. "He is not dead. Lady, sit here, I will get some water." Taking a cup from a flask in his pocket, he stepped aside and filled it with water from a ditch, common on the road-sides of Southeast- ern Georgia. Leda had walked to and fro like one in a dream beside Ralph. u Sit down, young lady," said a full manly voice. "I must pillow this gentleman's head on your knee for the present." Leda sat as directed, and the stranger placed Ralph's head gently upon her lap. Taking a 'kerchief from his pocket, he proceeded to bathe the sufferer's face. "Are you afraid to be left alone? I must seek aid." "No," said Leda, slowly. "Then bathe his brow, and if he shows signs of life, give him some brandy from this bottle," placing the flask near her. He refilled the cup of water and saturated the 'kerchief anew.     ' -I shall not be long away." "Will. he die?" gasped Leda, lifting her eyes to the face of the stranger. An expres- sion of pity softened the harsh ,features of this man's dark face, as he looked at the pleading pale face of the beautiful girl transformed into statuesque rigidity by the spectacle of the life- less form stretched before her. "I cannot tell. I hope not. I think the pain and concussion have made him insensible. He may revive." Touching his hat and again cautioning Leda to be courageous and follow his directions, he caught his horse as if no accident had hap- pened, and rode rapidly away. Left alone, Leda chafed the, pallid brow with her cold, white, tremulous fingers, praying mutely that God would restore to animation the form before her, that once more his deep expressive eyes would open and beam one glance on her. Sympathy is a large Component of every wo- man's nature. It smites the stony heart with its magic rod, and the fountain which has been frozen in the inner cells of abstract speculation gushes forth in living water of love. As Leda sat there holding the head of Ralph de Coy, and her mind took in fully all the probabilities of losing him forever, and that his life was sac- rificed in the effort to save her, she felt for the first time that she loved him. Again she prayed for his restoration; but if that was impossible, that he might be spared long enough to be re- generated.' Ralph was noble, generous, brave; but he was worldly and she shuddered at the idea of his passing away without religion's surety to the bar of the righteous God. How long she sat on that lonely road side with the gathering evening shadows lending a deeper gloom to the darkened chambers of her tor- tured soul, when the moments seemed leaden- wheeled, she knew not.  She continued to moisten the face with the damp 'kerchief, when a slight sigh shook the prostrate form. Then a low moan escaped the blue lips. Leda bent her head forward to catch the grateful sound, when Ralph opened his eyes. "Thank God, he revives!" was her glad exclamation. A momentary joy played over his face, and the eyes closed again. Leda poured some brandy into the cup and placing it to his lips, she gently raised his head and induced him to swallow some. The girl drooped her head and pressed her lips ofn the forehead of the man she loved, in holy thankfulness that God had answered her. Again Ralph opened his eyes   saying faintly: "Have I been very ill? I am better now, darling. It were worth a thousand deaths to awaken that much interest in you. Only say you love me and I shall die content." Again Leda bent her head low and gave a whispered assent, saying: "God forbid, dear Ralph, that you should die, I cannot give you up!" and she clutched her hands in agony at the thought that death would claim her new found treasure. Ralph lay quite still. Occa- sionally a slight moan passed his lips and Leda knew how much he suffered by the contraction of his forehead. She kept silent, and after waiting long, the sound of an approaching ve- hicle was heard. Mr. Staunton with his carriage and a physi- cian arrived, accompanied by the stranger on the black horse. Ralph was carefully lifted into the large carriage, which was arranged so as to be comfortable, after the surgeon had set his arm, Leda had leisure to examine the in- cognito. He was handsome in face and form; but there was a furtive, restless glance of the deep-set eye, which avoided a direct look in the face of the beholder, ad gave him a sinis- ter expression. There was something familiar in his features to her. Where had she seen him, or who was he like? She could not re- call even a distinct shadow, or fix the resem- blance to any one. She was handed into the carriage and driven slowly away. The black horse bore his rider in an opposite direction, and although her time was occupied in telling Mr. Staunton the particulars of the catastrophe and caring for Ralph, she could not drive the mysterious person from her thoughts. Dr. de Coy's injuries were far more severe than a cursory examination led his physician to believe. The arm was badly fractured and an inflammatory fever was superinduced from the suffering. For weeks life held an equivo- cal tenure upon his fever-parched frame. Friends were not wanting. He was popular from his curteous manners and intrinsic virtues; and kind ministrations, had they possessed such power, would have changed the pillow of ago- ny to one of down. In this trying hour Leda felt that her religion. the sweet knowledge that she could cast her cross upon the meek and lowly Saviour, was her only sustaining conso- lation. . She neglected no duty, left no self-im- posed task undone, hoping by constant occu- pation to give no room for useless repinings. She was busy one morning after a sleepless night arranging the parlor, when her father en- tered and stood some time silently observing her.   "Leda," he said, "you have doubtless con- sidered me a harsh man. I have watched you closely, and you are unlike other women. I am about to put your common sense, your courage and your obedience to a test. Can yon trust me?" "Yes, sir," she replied, looking wonderingly in his face. "' Very well, I am a man of few words. Get your bonnet and come with me, I will await you here." Leda left the room and ere long returned equipped for a walk. Mr. Elson took his hat and they left the house together.- A few turns brought them to Mrs. Hume's dwelling. On entering the parlor Mr. Elson said, Dr. de Coy is in a critical condition; but he is better to- day. You are betrothed to him. Ease of mind and careful nursing from loving, hands, may restore him. Are you willing to lay 'aside the conventionalities of fools, and give up the idea of a trousseau and wedding cards, and a string of bridemaids longer than Penelope's web, and like a sensible woman go in now and become the wife of the man you love!" Leda looked up, and there was no hesitation as she said: "Father, I will do as you desire." Mb. Elson stooped and kissed his daughter's brow. "Be a brave girl, and all will go well. Come; all things are waiting ;" and taking her hand he led her-into the chamber where Ralph, pale and emaciated, was reclining on a lounge. Mrs. Hume, Mrs.. Elson, Florence and Mr. Snowden were present. Mr. Elson took Leda to the couch and placing her hand in Ralph's, he stood beside her and nodded to Mr. Snow- don that all was arranged. The company rose, and the minister, in a short impressive cere. mony, pronounced Ralph de Coy and Leda El- son husband and wife. No costly jewels encircled her brow on that impromptu bridal morn ; but the dove of peace had set his holy signet there, and her face- shone with a greater lustre than all the orient gems of the famed princess of Oude could have yielded. As each friend offered congratulations to that gifted young pair, a secret prayer went up to the throne of heavenly grace that Ralph would be spared to his sweet fair bride, and that their lives might be happy. CHAPTER VIII. Blanche Ravenel possessed all the refined selfishness of Ismene. in the ZEdipus Coloneus.   of Sophocles. Having yielded to the puerile pleadings of her boy beau on the afternoon she granted Bessie's request, and had the interview with him, she no longer regarded the dictates of the waning voice of conscience, whose ex- piring throbs beat faint indeed in her bosom. Her love, like the stream walled up in its banks, no sooner broke out of bounds than it gushed on with a force that swept away every impediment in its impetuosity. She deter- mined to brave her mother's displeasure, to disregard public opinion, to close her eyes to the ill-effects of uncongeniality, to turn a deaf ear to the experience of thousands, which ever declares that great differences of station is a poison to the peace of matrimony for which reciprocity of love is no antidote. Mrs. Slugg, as she promised, had left all the manceuvering of the match making to her neice; but she was by no means an indifferent specta- tor. Like Blucher at Waterloo, after execut- ing a set of masterly movements in the distance, she appeared on the scene of action at the crit- ical moment and decided the contest. She was a strong minded woman, and no sooner had the engagement between Blanche and her son been effected, than she determined to place no confidence in the promises of so vacillating a nature as she read Blanche's to be. She feared Mrs. Ravenel's influence, and she knew that lady would surely leave no method untried to prevent her daughter's mesalliance. Both she and Bessie laid seige to poor Blanche, and with flattering and cajoling, persuasion, and a little scolding, they prevailed on her to marry Tom Slugg secretly. Very quietly a justice of the peace (an office so prolific under the august title of Judge, in the State of Georgia, that at every turn we stumble on them,) was induced to perform the ceremony. A judicious fee, of more than common proportion, closing his lips in sapient silence. "Dear Bessie," said Blanche, " how shall I ever tell mamma that her only daughter has made a runaway match-and with Tom Slugg?" "Hal" exclaimed Mrs. Slugg, drawing lup her stalwart form, "I should like to know why my family is not as respectable as any body's. Tell nothing, Blanche. Trust to chance to re- veal the fact. I am sure I think the girl fortu- nate who could get as amiable a boy as Tom." Blanche said nothing, feeling that she had aroused a lion in her path, but wept silently, when too late, over her folly. Tom coming in, in the midst of the scene, endeavored by ca- resses to console his senior bride; but she took     no notice of him. In truth she felt much in- clined to send him away. We seldom tolerate with patience the presence of the author of our real or fancied woes; and at this moment pu- sillanimous fear was mightier than love in the bosom of Blanche Slugg. Rumor is ever slow in springing the mine upon those whom she most effectually blows up. Mrs. Ravenel disapproved of her daugh- ter's visits to- the Slugg family; but she was not aware of the extent of the intercourse. Possessing great probity and integrity of char- acter herself, she was not on the qui five for duplicity in others. Her mother-in-law's grow- ing infirmities required increased attentions; and if she thought Blanche remiss in home du- ties, she willingly excused her on the score of devotion to her grandmother, instead of attri- buting her frequent absence to any want of re- gard for her mother.   - Things went on in this way for sometime, Blanche occupying anything but a pleasant po- sition. Constantly called upon to practice some fresh deception, and finding her new rela- tives exacting and troublesome, instead of flat- tering and deferential, she became peevish and listless. She was cross and caressing by turns to her juvenile husband. Love is only blind before marriage. In ill-assorted unionsi both husband and wife are transformed into arguses by the metamorphosis of matrimony; and un- less toleration can be brought in with its pacify- ing influenee, happiness " flies out of the win- dow." Some officious neighbors, calling on Mrs. Ravenel, told her that a very current report ex- isted that her daughter was very soon to marry. "' Who is the fortunategentleman, who is to' take captive my daughter's heart-?" inquired the unsuspecting mother. "Dear me I Mrs. Ravenel; don't you know all about it? I heard you were getting ready for the wedding, and I called to offer my ser- vices to assist in the preparations," said Mrs. Grenfell. "I am Very grateful for your kind attentions; but really, in your superior knowledge of my own family affairs, you remind me of the 'learn- ed commentators,' Dean Swift alludes to, who 'View , In Homer more than Homer knew. ' My neighbors are better acquainted with my family arrangements -than I am myself. I did not know my daughter had any prospect of marrying until you now mention it. How did you hear it?"   "I went to spend a day with Mrs. Pearson, and she told me that a friend of hers knew all about the affair, and had told her in confidence, and asked' me not to tell it. Of course I would not mention it for the world. You being one of the parties concerned, my dear Mrs. Rav- enel, makes it no harm to talk about it to you, especially as I wish to assist you." "I am still in the dark, and would be much obliged for a statement of the ' affair ' which seemed so interesting to the neighborhood. Do enlighten me," said Mrs. Ravenel, with more anxiety than she cared to manifest. 4"'Oh I there may be nothing in it, as you. are so ignorant, I thought it could not be possible, and said so at the time. I dare say Miss Blanche is carrying on a little fitation for her own amusement," "I think Blanche has been too well reared to occupy herself with such frivolous amusements. Besides, I do not know who there is in the neighborhood at all a suitable subject, were she so inclined." "Girls will be girls, you know; and they think differently from persons of our years. But, I. declare, I am sorry I troubled you with idle rumors. Do you visit Mrs. Slugg? I think she'is such a kind soul." "Sometimes I do," said Mrs. Ravenel, pro- voked at the indefinite loquacity of her gossiping neighbor. "I go out so very seldom that my visits are vary rare." Mrs. Ravenel was too proud to ask any other questions about the re- ports of her daughter's marriage; but Mrs. Grenfell's ambiguous remarks left a very un- pleasant impression upon her. Various doubts arose in- her mind regarding Blanche. Why -was she so shy and so much at her grandma's. Mrs. Ravenel would observe her more narrowly * in future to see what cause there was for re- mark in her deportment. After Mrs. Grenfell left, Mrs. Ravenel, in vain, endeavored to re- sume her accustomed equanimity, and to con- sider the subject of her conversation as idle gossip. This she could not do. Her motherly anxiety for her daughter's welfare was thor- oughly aroused, and she passed a restless night - her repose disturbed by troubled dreams. The next day she went to her mother-in- law's, apd remained the day. Nothing was done. How could she mention her uneasiness to Blanche? What had she heard? Nothing tangible; only a few dim hints. If Blanche was innocent, and she told her of the gossip about her, might it not give her ideas of coquetry   hitherto unthought of? Blanche looked very placid, and was employed in caring' for her grandma's wants. On the whole, it was best to let matters alone; and Mrs. Ravenel re- turned to her home no wiser than she left it, but'still in the same disquieted state of mind and nerves. Days passed, but with no power to clear away the fog of doubt and anxiety which surrounded and perplexed her. Every effort was made to recover her wonted mental equanimity, and, in some slight degree, she succeeded; but she felt that distaste to any regular occupation which alway accom- panies agitation or suspense. Mrs. Ravenel determined that she would giv e herself some recreation by vising her neighbors. She would either hear something definite, or have her fears put to rest. Ordering her carriage, she passed a day or two in returning visits. At almost every house, she was questioned about her daughter's intended marriage in such a way as convinced her that there were other rumors purposely kept from her. On her return, she stopped to see Blanche at her grandmother's; but the young lady had gone to walk, and after sometime, Mrs. Ravenel went home thoroughly disheartened and uncertain what to do. To tell Blanche her fears would be to precipitate matters if the rumors had any foundation. To remain silent might involve a dangerous de- lay. On the following morning she went again to the residence of the elder Mrs. Ravenel's. Blanche was out. Mrs. Ravenel determined to go to Mrs. Slugg's. That lady received her very blandly, and in reply to her question if Blanche was there, said that Bessie, Blanche and Tom had gone on a walk. Mrs. Ravenel ventured th) sound Mrs. Slugg by remarking that Blanche appeared very fond of Mrs. Tal- bot. "Yes," said Mrs. Slugg, "Bessie is sprightly, and always did make friends. The 1 country is so lonely, I wish Miss Blanche would t come oftener. We are very glad to see her at ] any time."   I ' "* I fear Blanche bestows more leisure on her I friends than she ought. tHer grandma needs - all of' her attention.;"  "Yes, Miss Blanche looks pale. It is too I much for a young person to be kept in a sick I room all the time. I wonder you do not take 1 your mother to live with you, Mrs. Ravenel. a Then Miss Blanche would not be so constantly c confined." Mrs. Ravenel felt the implied censure; but without noticing it, she remarked that her if   y mother-in-law was old and peculiar, and pre- 1r ferred living in her own home. "Otherwise I at would long since have persuaded her to stay 3 with me. It is a great cross to be so little with t, my child; but I must not be selfish and am di consequently much alone," rejoined Mrs. Rav- r enel.  '  y  "Do you never hear from your son?" asked Mrs. Slugg. "d No, I have not heard in a long time, and I cannot conjecture why he does not write." "Oh, that is distressing!" said Mrs. Slugg * in a sympathetic tone. "People say ' no news I is good news ;' but I do not always believe it. 3 If I were in your place I should be miserable." "Has your son recovered his health?" in- r quired Mrs. Ravenel, willing to parry the at- tack by " carrying the war into Africa." "Oh, yes he is very well again. I have to thank you, Mrs. Ravenel, for your attentions in our affliction; 5and Miss Blanche, too, was very kind to my poor boy. I thought at one time he must die." "I am glad he was spared to you. I can sym- pathize in your anxiety for an only son." While the ladies were talking, Bessie, Blanche and Tom came in. The three looked quite embar- rassed on seeing Mrs. Ravenel; and soon after. ward, the visitor rose to go, taking Blanche with her. They walked on in silence for some distance. At length Mrs. Ravenel said, "Blanche, I am sorry to see such a growing intimacy between you and Mrs. Slugg's family. I had hoped that a knowledge of my disapproval would have been a sufficient restraint upon your actions." "But, Mamma, I think you are unreasona- ble. You forget how young people feel. I see no use in being over-particular in the country," said Blanche, rather sulkily. "I-do," replied Mrs. Ravenel. "A young lady can never be too particular in the selec- tion of her intimates. Would you be willing, Blanche, to recognize Mrs. Talbot as your equal, and her cousin Tom your avowed ad- mirer, among your city friends?" ' Blanche frowned and bit her lips. "I do not know. I think them very kind people. They are kind to me, and I cannot insult them. I believe, mainma, I am old enough to be al- lowed to use voluntary discretion. Are you always going to have me in leading strings? I can see no harm in being sociable with these people." "Allow me to be the judge. A young lady, if ever so old, is the slave to the rules of so-     ciety, which, though narrow, are meant as her v safe-guards. There is always harm in our ac-  tions when they bring our names before the a public as food, for detracting gossip." "There are, mother, people in every com- munity who live by slander. Some lynx-eyes are ever malicious.- We should be slaves, in- deed, if we expected to cope with them, or hoped to escape. I like a certain amount of independence which bids defiance to calum- ny." "So do I ; but as a precedent, we must be very careful to shape our conduct in such a way as to give no just ground of complaint. Then, and then only, may we defy public opin- ion," said Mrs. Ravenel. "Even the innocent do not escape," urged Blanche. "One would need to lead the life of a recluse to avoid remark." "I regret, Blanche," said Mrs. Ravenel, "to see you so argumentative. It does not exhibit much filial respect; and that is distress- ing to a mother. But laying aside all this, I now request once more that you will discon- tinue your intimacy with Mrs. Slugg's family ; and I ex-pect obedience. You can be kind, but gradually withdraw from them until finally they can be dropped altogether." Blanche remarked that she did not. see how she could avoid their attentions without insult- ing them; and Mrs. Ravenel and her daughter entered their dwelling in silence. Lord Bacon quaintly remarks that, " dissim- ulation is-but a faint kind of policy or wisdom; for it asketh a strong wit and a strong heart to know when to tell truth, and to do it." Mrs, Ravenel's conversation was like a barbed arrow to poor Blanche's cowardly nature. She felt, too late, the full weight of the want of knowl- edge when and how to tell the truth. Yet well she knew it had to be told some- time. She could not dissemble always; and to obey her mother's injunction, and give up the Slugg family was impossible. Then their exactions upon her time were intolerable. She was in perfect dispair, in whatever aspect .of the case she place'd herself; and she felt, too late, the force of the adage. "Marry in haste and repent at leisure." As all these disagree- able reflections held possession of her, her love for Tom paled into a thin shadow, and she would have given all she possessed to have re- called the-hour when she weakly consented to so ill-assorted a union. This world would be filled with saints if each -one had the power of recalling his unwise and / t   wicked actions; and vice would soon assume colossal dimensions if sin brought no suffering along with her. Other weeks dropped in to the ocean of the Past and were swallowed up in its restless tides. Blanche was a prey to constant fear, and to the urgings of her new relatives to boldly avow her marriage. Old Mrs. Ravenel was found speechless in her bed on the morning after Blenche had been induced to remain all night at her husband's home. The servants hastened to Mrs. Ravenel s and informed her of the sad news. "Where is Blanche," asked the lady. "We do' no, mam," said a smiling African maid. "She went to walk "esterday, and we no see her since." Mrs. Ravenel hastened to her mother-in-law's house, and found the old lady quite insensible. She had been in usual health the day before. A physician was summoned, but gave no hope of recovery. A stroke of palsy had left her in this condition, and her constitution was too enfeebled by age to resist the effect. "A trifling bend of the scale sends aged. frames to rest," exclaims the great tragic poet of antiquity ; and before night, with her span- gled raven garments, came, the weary spirit of old Mrs. Ravenel had reached the!haven of eternal rest. Blanche was horrified tj'it such a solemn circumstance should have 6fappened during her absence; and fear adeA4its, goad- ings to the pangs of conscience. Shelfdt that, now, no lodger could she conceal her conduct from her mother. Her resolution was taken to reveal all; yet she dreaded the interview and deferred it as long as she could. The funeral rites were performed, and the assembled quests returned to their homes, when Blanche sought her mother. She was found in the room of the deceased, while the consciousness that the indulgent grandmother had gone thence forever, smote sorely on the girl's guilty heart. "Dear mother," she asked, "have you no reproaches to utter against my disobedience and neglect?" "None, Blanche. Conscience is a severe monitor; and I trust, my child, this solemn lesson may not be thrown away. May it- give you wisdom, and unite us more cliosely as a loving mother and daughter. Henceforth we have nothing to separate us."' "How you torture me I Would that your words were true. If you knew all you would scorn me ," and Blanche burst into tears.   "Knew all? What do you mean? Can it be possible, Blanche-Ravenel, that you have brought disgrace on the proud escutcheon of your family, hitherto unblemished? Answer me and put an end to suspense." "God forbid , mother, that I should bring disgrace on our family. I may- have acted clandestinely, but never impurely. I have only married Tom Slugg secretly," and falling on her knees Blanche implored her mother to for- give her, and receive her with her husbanid. Mrs. Ravenel's face faddd instantly to a mar- ble hue, and she seemed as one turned to stone. So long was she silent that Blanche was alarmed and again besought an answer.' "' And is this then the end of all my teach- ings, all my endeavors, all my prayers to my God that you would make a glorious specimen of your sex and comfort my declining years? "Hear me, my God!" she continued, and her voice sounded solemn and sepulchral, and she lifted her voice aloft, "' When I say that never, while life lasts, will I see you more, Blanche Slugg, unless you need me on your death bed. Then I will come atyour bidding." She turned and left the room; but before she reached the parlor she fell in a deep swoon. Blanche's V shrieks summoned the negroes, and when she B saw signs of returning life in her mother, she hastened to her new home with remorse, like n a vultureagnawing at her heart.      b CHAPTER IX.         B In a large room with lofty ceilings, embel- o lished with handsome furniture, and wearing an air of indescribable comfort, sat a young man' s in an easy chair. The white fringed curtains a were looped aside from the windows to admit the air, and the chair was near one of them. t He leaned languidly back, and his hand had a on transparent, -delicate appearance as it toyed m with some roses and jasmines on a small table re beside him. The face wore the same waxy  m: hue, and looked whiter, from the contrast of me the dark hair on the forehead. The features were good, and the whole physiognomy hand- ing some. Contentment and weariness were both ca expressed on the countenence. These were no put to flight by a look of gladness as a quick gla energetic step hurried along the entry and en- she tered the room.               9 "Darling, how  could you stay away so ing   be long?" asked the young man of the girl as she ve threw aside her bonnet and approached his of chair. er  "I could not help it," she replied, in a low, sweet voice. "' I was detained; but here is a ig peace offering," handing a little basket of figs d tastefully arranged with leaves. "I will sit ly beside you all day and be very circumspect and n obedient." r-  The speaker wore a morning dress of pink lawn, and her fair, young face looked beautiful - as she stooped and kissed her husband. "Dear Ralph, are you not sitting up too L long?" "I do not feel fatigued now that you are - here, but I thought the time interminable while y you were absent." na   Grandmother promised to stay with you," ? she said, as she drew a stool and sat near him, r placing her hand in his; 'and her society I hoped, would keep you cheerful while I was , absent." "She did come in," said Ralph, "but who can take your place'? I am under eclipse I when you are absent. All light goes and comes with you, my sweet Leda. Now tell me, who was the good fairy who sent me these fine figs?" "They are the very first of the season, and no other sprite could have been so thoughtful but your friend, Miss Bab." "I thought you were going to say some beautiful girl remembered the sick man in his desolation, such as Julia Staunton, or Flor- ence Elson," replied Dr. de Coy. "That would have enhanced their flavor. But Miss Bab is very kind, and I shall not be unmindful of her favors." "You do not class her among the Osher species now, I hope, Ralph?" said Leda, with a mischievous twinkle of her eye. "I will retract all I said about Miss Bab on that memorable afternoon, the happiest, except one, of my life. Dearest, what a tenacious memory you have to treasure up all my light remarks I I shall grow more sedate under your management, and become, I trust, a better man." Florence Elson came in at this moment, say. ing, "Leda, Mr. Staunton intends sending his ,carriage for you and Ralph to drive this after- noon at three o'clock. Brother Ralph, I am glad to see you. Leda will nurse you to death," she said, kissing him on the forehead. "I fear she will," replied Dr. de Coy, look- ing admiringly on his wife. "I shall be sorry     to regain my liberty," and he sighed. "But, Florence, why do you look so happy this morn- ing? Is it joy at my recovery, or is your sweet- heart coming?" he added, in a whisper. "Both. I received this to-day," and she held up a letter before him. "He is coming  in two weeks."  "Do let me read it," said Ralph. "I will never divulge any thing in it, even to Leda." "Oh, you do not care to see love letters now. A married gentleman takes no interest in such things." "I do, Leda, and I had such a short court- ship I never wrote any love letters. Now I think of it, I never penned one in my life. I Wish to learn how." "I do not believe a word of it. Leda, teach your husband to speak the truth. I must go." and telling good-bye, Florence left. Dr. de Coy's recovery was rapid after he be- gan to go out. Love is said to be a great beau- tifier; and it certainly is a great healer of dis- ease. For weeks after his marriage, Ralph was ill and his fate was extremely doubtful. The arm was badly managed and his sufferings were agonizing. Both day and night Leda flit- ted like an angel around his bed anticipating every want, soothing every pain. How could he do otherwise than bear his ills with forti- tude, as he watched that fair uncomplaining girl, in her unselfish devotion? And how could he help being happy when he felt that she was all his own? The only pang the expectation ,of death brought was the 'thought of leaving her-his lovely bride. As he daily saw new exhibitions of her pure, unassuming, unobtru- sive piety, which tempered her every thought and action, he despised his own worldly char- acter, and prayed God to change his heart and make him, too, a true living child of Christ. How incalculable is the influence that genuine, unpretending piety wields in this life I Truly, it is like a city set on a hill and cannot be hid. Even the wicked feel a desire to pause and pay passing respect to undefiled religion. And how impossible is it for the counterfeit to impose for any great length of time even on the credulous I As the summer advanced Ralpn became able to attend to his professional duties again. Leda wished to resume her school; but her husband would not consent. Her two little brothers he said she might teach each morning. 4"I wish all the rest of your, time, darling. You must ride with me, or walk -each after- noon. I am still invalid enough to claim that much of your attention."   Leda laughingly assented. If she felt alny regrets, there was full compensation in the knowledge of being so necessary to her hus- band's happiness. So she devoted her morn- ings to her beloved little brothers. Daily ex- panding their intellects and developing their hearts by her teachings and example, and feel- ing that she lightened, thereby, that much of her mother's burden. Mrs. Elson had been suffering a severe head- ache from early morning. The window blinds were closed to exclude the glare of the light of day. Mr. Elson was out and she had insisted that Florence should take a walk, feeling that quiet would do more to restore her than any medicine. She had fallen into a slight slum- ber, when she was startled by a voice deep and penetrating, saying, "Catherine, I need you! I am here for your aid!" The speeker was a stern, dark, handsome man, but the lines of sin and dissipation had set their mark upon his brow, as indelibly as that which characterized Cain. Mrs. Elson started up. "And to what new disaster do I owe this intrusion? You come like a bird of evil to presage more sor- row." "No reproaches, Catherine; forbear,"' he said i and a scowl settled on his features. "I need money. Give it to me and I am gone, like the lightning, I leave no trace behind." "But the thunder breaks over my devoted head," and she shuddered. "I have no money. Leave me, I beseech you. Great God," she continueds pressing her throbbing temples be- tween her hands, "am I always to be thus cursed? "And is that your reply,"' he asked, grasp- ing her hand. "Then before the sun goes down, I will give myself up to the blood hounds of justice.'"He uttered this with ineffable scorn. "4 And the proud Catherine Elson will know when the hangman claims me that her niggardly soul sealed my death warrant." Every drop of blood forsook Mrs. Elson's usually pale face. Her eyes started as this man uttered these words, and her imagination took in their force. At length she said slowly. - "Money I own not. I know but one person of whom I could borrow, and that depends on the amount. Tell me the sum you need, and say how long you can wait for it." "Five hundred dollars. I must have it by to-morrow night. Seal it up securely and leave it at Polydora's cabin. Take it there  yourself. Say these words, 'The fire burns   low, I have snatched the burning brand ;' and she will understand. I will get it." "Upon one condition I will obtain this money, and it must be that you swear no more to intrude upon me. I can get the sum only by applying to Miss Barbara Snubb. Are you willing to receive it from her?" -A shudder passed visibly over this man's stalwart form; but he said: "A man will do any thing for life. Get the sum, I care not from what source; and as for oaths, I will swear twenty score if you like." "Beware, said Mrs. Elson; "I mean no jest; 'for I, too, hold a rod which can scourge you." A scoffing laugh startled her. "Do you  threaten me, poor weak worm, as you are? Away with such mockings I I fear you not. I swear to you that I will never more thrust my self in your presence. But when the night owl screams in jubilee over the departure of my sin-stained soul, I want you there. Will you come at my bidding, Catherine?" "Yes, I will go. God pity him, and have mercy on his soul I Leave me!" she gasped, and covering her face with her hands, she fell back in her bed. When she again opened her eyes the man was gone. Ringing a little bell, she summoned her son James. "Jamie," she said, "I am very sick. Go quickly to Miss Bab, and tell her mamma begs her to come at once. And be careful not to let any one hear you; and do Fyou return with her." Jamie left, and Mrs. Elson endeavored to compose her nerves. Rising, she took a large dose of lavender, and sat beside the fire. , The recent scene in her room appeared like a wild, horrible night-mare. What would her husband say if he knew that she had held converse with one who had boldly avowed himself, to her, a villian? Secretiveness was perfectly foreign to her nature; and yet her judgment approved of her silence on this subject. But--was she not culpable in furnishing so large a sum for criminal purposes, it might be? Or, at all events, to shield crime? All these thoughts pressed heavily upon her during the space be- tween Jamie's going and Miss Snubb's appear- ance. "Sit down, Bab. I have been ill all day, and I sent for you this afternoon to cheer me. Jamie, you may go to Leda's and see how she and the Doctor are; or play on the street be- fore, the door, if you like." Jamie left the room, and Mrs. Elson said:   "I am in great trouble, Bab, and sent for you, my earliest friend, to aid in extricating me." "I will if I can, Kate. Has he been here?" And the same paleness of face which the real presence had forced upon Mrs. Elson, the mere mention of the name brought to the complex- ion of Miss Bab. "Yes, I shudder now to think of it. He is a fugitive from justice. Some new crime stains his already burdened soul. Oh, my God I have mercy on him ;" and again Mrs. Elson shivered ,and buried her face in her bands. She raised her face after some moments antr continued: "He demands money. I have it not; but un- less he gets it he must die." "And the sum?" muttered Miss Bab, talk- ing as if she were in a dream. "Five hundred dollars. And I must have it before to-morrow night." "You shall have it, Kate. I have for years been saving a few dollars at a time until I could get enough to invest for a support. Fortunately it amounts to a little more than you need. Take it, and may the good God sanctify it, and make it the means of saving soul as well as body." "But, Bab, you lend this with no hope of a return. I own nothing. I cannot. go to Mr. Elson, and he-ah  there is no trust to be placed in him!" "No matter!" replied that frozen woman whom the world laughed at. "You shall have it cheerfully. 'He who hath mercy on the poor lendeth to the Lord I'" and tears coursed silently down Miss Bab's faded cheeks. Mem- ory opened her flood gates and the waters of youth welled up in her heart to overflow- ing. "Poor Bab," said Mrs. Elson.  "Yours has been a sad fate; but 'all things work to- gether for good to them that love the Lord.' Life is but a span ; and, thank God, you and I, both sorrow-stricken with a living grief, will soon be gathered to the tomb where, I trust, we shall meet that peace which has been denied us in this life." The next morning, Miss Bab brought the mon- ey to Mrs. Elson. It was put up in an old fash- ioned bead bag, and was in gold pieces of va- rious value. It had been the hoarding of years, much of it made by toil; and there was some- thing sublime in a generosity which could hope no return. Miss Bab promised to call for Mrs. Elson after dinner to avoid suspicion. It was nothing unusual for them to go on a visit to the sick, or to relieve some poor persons in     distress. Miss Bab would go to the suburbs of the town, and call on a friend, while Mrs. El- son could prosecute her errand to the fortune- teller's hut alone. About noon the sky was overcast, but the clouds looked too high. to prognosticate rain. The case was too urgent for delay; and at three o'clock they set out, notwithstanding the. heat of the day. Polydora's cabin was some distance from .Mrs. Elson's dwelling; and as the two ladies proceeded on their walk the clouds walled up thicker, and more threatning in the west. The air became oppressive- 1"Deep swelling gusts And sultry stillness take the rule by turn, Whilst o'er their heads-the black and heavy clouds Roll slowly on." Distant angry mutterings of thunder sounded hoarse and ominous, as the women hurried on, while a few large drops of rain fell in their path. Miss Bab was near her destination, and entreated her companion to delay with her un- til the fury of the storm swept by. But Mrs. Elson feared she might be prevented altogether from executing her purpose; so begging Miss Bab to make some excuse if she was noticed by any one, and promising to return soon, she went on. Before she had gone very far, the raini fell fast, and the lightning streaked the western sky with luminous lines, grand and aw- ' ful, to behold. Mrs. Elson reached the negro's hut almost in a ruin, with her clothing much dampened; and after several knocks, the door opened, and the croaking voice of the prophetess asked her to enter. And now the rain fell in torrents. Heaven's artillery, till then delayed to gather its mustering forces, sent forth its grandest dis- sonance. Peal upon peal of terrific thunder followed fast the flashes of forked lightning. The whole- sky blazed with coruscations of daz- zling light. The cabin shook like the aspen before the stiffening gale; and Mrs. Elson almost wished she had remained at home. The old crone crouched beside a few embers on the hearth of the smoke-begrimed cabin, and pointed with her staff to a low bench for Mrs. -Eltsoto sit down. The lady took the stool as directed, and glanced around at the contents of the room. There Was nothing inviting in the aspect, A few rags on a raised shelf of smoked planks served for a bed in one corner. A table with some broken crockery; a water bucket and two or three benches, formed the' comple- ment of furniture. Mrs. Elson felt at a loss how to proceed in the accomplishment of her business. While she sat there conjecturing   what was the best method of opening the con- versation, a flash, of lurid glare lighted up the whole hovel, followed almost instantaneously by a terrific clap of thunder. Then a crash of some heavy body falling near, made the rude house tremble to its foundation. The old wo- man began rocking to and fro, muttering some- thing in a sort of monotone; while her eyes acquired, it would seem from the lightning, something of its own wild, lustre. "Are you not afraid to stay in this house in such storms, Mom Polydora?" asked Mrs. Elson in a half timid tone. "What should I fear?" retorted the hag, turning her fierce eyes on the lady. "At such a time, the evil one with his imps goes abroad. I love to see his fire works and smell his sul- phur!" and she chuckled with satisfaction. "4 How awful! If that be true, so much the more ought you to dread the hurricane." "If that be true? 'Tis true. I don't fear my Own. I love the lightning,: it tells men's secrets. It showed me just now what you came here for when it blazed round the pile of gold in your lap. It won't save the soul from the wicked one. He and I serve one master; and at last we will join him and help send the thunder bolt in the sky. Lady, tell your errand. The time draws near. You must leave!" and again she rocked to and fro, singing, "I Woe I woe Il woe!l to the rich when the pestilence comes by!" Mrs. Elson felt her blood mount up with a sudden leap to the roots of her hair, and in- stantaneously sweep back like a wave on the sea shore, leaving an icy numbness that petri- fied every fibre in her frame, as this beldame uttered her wicked, wierd, mysterious chant and prophecy. For a few moments superstition held sway over her, deadening every limb. What if the hag in her frenzy should kill her for the treasure she carried? How did the witch learn that she had gold? She had not mentioned to any one in what form the money would be furnished. Might it not be a plot be- tween the old woman and the outlaw to mur- der her? As the fury of the storm increased, and the lightning, which had already struck some object in the immediate vicinity, contin- ued to play frightfully around the cabin, she imagined how her family would feel if she should perish there with, the negress, and her corpse be found with its shining treasure clutched in its stiffened fingers. As all this surged through her mind, she felt that the gold Was, burning lava in her hands, that she would   put it away and brave the elements to escape so foul an atmosphere of vice and crime. She rose by a' powerful effort of will, and ap- proaching the witch, she handed the bead bag to her, saying, "The fire burns low. I have snatched the burning brand."' 'The woman clutched it eagerly and chanted in low tone, "Aye! I see the flames rising high I They blaze around your head, proud dame, and I hear the chains. Woe woe! woe! to the rich when the pestilence comes byl" Mrs. Elson's feelings were indescribable during the time she watched the woman with her tangled hair, her rolling eyes, and her bent form swaying in the vivid light, which ever and anon illumined the room. She-felt her strength fast declining; but nerving her courage to its utmost capacity, she approached the door, and undoing the latch with her trembling fingers, she fled as from the gates of Pandemonium. The noise of the tempest drowned the voice of the seer within as she sped on, heeding n'ot the rain in her haste' to escape from unholy ground. By the time she reached the dwelling where Miss Bab awaited her, she was perfectly drenched 'with rain. Rapping hastily, she gained admittance, and throwing herself in a chair, she panted with. exhaustion and lfain, from the rapid pulsations of the heart, after violent exertion and terror. Rendering some excuse for her plight to the friend at whose house they were, she was induced to change her garments and drink a glass of wine. In 'replyr to the inquiries engendered by curiosity, Mrs. Elson said she had been on an errand of business to a servant, and fearing the storm would not abate, she left with her clothing al- ready damp, knowing she could procure dry garments there. Before sun set the clouds ,cleared away, leaving nature smiling gladly with its tear-bedewed face, serene and quiet as if no dread convulsion had but a few moments before distorted her aspect. Mrs. Elson and Miss Snubb returned to their honme, the first recounting her adventure as they walked along. The result of the affair was a violent cold and cough to Mrs. Elson, which left her lungs in a very precarious state. Terence Staunton came the- last of July, as. lie intended, to his home. He was to remain with his parents until autumn, when he would attend a law school, hoping to be admitted to the bar in the ensuing spring. Florence's measure of joy was full to overflowing. Mr. Elson interposed no objection to so brilliant a .   match, when Terence asked his consent to his union with his daughter. The wedding was deferred until he should acquire his profession. Every auspice was propitious. "How blind is man to futurity!" The excitement and terror through which Mrs. Elson had passed, combined with her ex- posure to the storm, so shattered her nervous system, naturally delicate, that all efforts to keep disease at bay, with iron resolution, was ineffectual. Her cold increased so as to pro-' duce fever, and on the third day she had to re- main in bed. She knew very well that her ill- ness would be the touch stone to investigation as to its cause, and she dreaded any inquiries from her husband. Her conscience acquitted her of wrong. She had gone oh an errand of mercy to her fellow-being. In this she was free from blame. But although no commands had come from Mr. Elson not to see or speak with the personage she was aiding, reason told her he would disapprove of her action. Her -clan- destine cause brought condemnation, but how could she disclose anything to her' hnsband? The secret was another's. In its sacred keep- ing rested that other's life, and most unfortu- nately, or most unwillingly, had she become e coadjutor. Her son-in-law being a physician, her illness caused no doctor's bills, and that prevented a great source of complaint. Mr. Elson was always incensed at any additional expense, and pride prevented its exhibition to the public. The smothered volcano'must find vent, and so burst forth its scorching eruptions on the heads of his family. "Catherine," said Mr. Elson, after the lapse of several days, during which time the lady was unable to leave her ,bed, "I am sorry to see you ill. How did you contract such a cold?" "I got wet," she replied, "and although I changed my clothing, it did not prevent sick- ness, as I hoped it would." "I cannot imagine how any one of common sense could get wet. Did you go out in the rain?" ' "I was walking with Miss Bab the afternoon of the storm and got caught in it." "Why did not Miss Bab get drenched, too? I wish the storm had drowned her," he mut- tered in an under tone between his set teeth. "' Because she stopped to see a neighbor, and I had another call to make, and in returning got the full benefit of the tempest." Mr. Elson frowned, "'Yes, I remember, one of my friends mentioned that he saw you     coming from the witch's hut., It must have been something urgent and unusual, which took you that far, and in such an afternoon." "Yes, I had a little business, and when I left home I did rot think it would rain." "And may I ask what that business was?" "It concerned another exclusively, and I am not at liberty to tell." "' Madam," said Mr. EBison, his face flashing with his mounted anger, "a wife has no busi- ness which she ought to withhold from her hus- band. I demand an explanation as a, right." Mrs. Elson closed her eyes and remained si- lent. She could not explain the truth. She would not sully her lips with a falsehood. Her dilemma was distressing. "Catherine, I am waiting for a reply. Again I demand an account of your suspicious con- duct," he exclaimed in an angry tone. "Mr. Elson," said the lady, "I never told you an untruth in a life of twenty years spent with you. I cannot explain my course. Trust me for a season and I may then be able to in- form you why I went out on the afternoon of the storm. This much I can say, that I assure you I went on the errand to serve another. I was not concerned in it. My conduct is in no way culpable, except so far as I am compelled to withhold my confidence from my husband for a time. Do have faith in the mother of your children," she said in a persuasive tone, "and you shall never regret it.' "Faith in woman? As soon Seek roses in December-ice in June, Hope, constancy in wind, or corn in chaffl" Mr. Elson quoted this famed passage in the most sneering tone. "Who could put confi- dence in one who is false to every trust, and acts in such a covert manner that she has to conceal her doings from her husband?" Mrs. Elson said nothing to these criminating remarks. Silence is a grand safeguard to mod- eration. She did not desire a renewal of hos- tility such as she had often had with her lord. Her calmness was a fresh irritant to Mr. Elson's already exasperated temper. Again he said in a loud and furious tone, approaching her: 'Mrs. Elson, I shall be trifled with no longer. Tell me quickly why you went to Polydora's house in the hurricane." "I dare not yet awhile. It does not concern me. After a season you shall know all," pleaded his wife. "'Tis false I believe you went there to meet some lover! I can prove more than you imagine of your short comings. I have the   means of extorting the truth, and have it I will," said he, turning livid with rage. Seizing his wife, he shook her violently, swearing to be revenged upon his victim. A glow of shame and horror swept slowly over Mrs. Elson's pale face as her husband made such an accusation against her fair name. "My reputation is unimpeachable, and, It know you believe not your qqel wordy. Oh I why can yoa not be kind? My, God'! am I ever to live thus wretched and unloved? Help me to bear my cross, for I am weary and heavy laden!" "Hypocritical cant! Youm ni&y impose such lamb-like prayers on 'others, '1laut I cannot be blinded," he said in a loud, sprhring tone. At this moment Leda opened the door, say- ing, "Mamma, may I bring Ralph in?" and the two entered. MA -.E'In bit his lips, frowned, and walked to the fireplace. His wrath was bottled up. for a season; but, like new wine, it threatened to burst the vessel. Leda sawtin a moment that some scene had been enacted. Kissing her mother, she stood beside her, holding her hand and stroking it soothingly. She hoped to divert her husband's attention from the sorrows of her home. Dr. de Coy was really a favorite with Mr. Elson; but he was gruff and uucommunicative to any sally of conversation. Soon afterward, he left the room abruptly. v The Doctor found Mrs. Elson in a very nervous state, and after prescribing some rem- ] edies he said, "Leda, I have several calls to make. I thought it would be pleasant for you to ride with me, but I must not be selfish. I will leave my little darling here until I return ;" he added in an undertone . "Be prompt, and do not keep me waiting as. I stop for you." And kissing her he left. "Dear mother," said Leda, "I regret to see you so much worse. Can I not serve you? Tell me all your troubles." "Nothing new, my child. I shall overcome this as I have all other trials of a similar kind. Though it is hard to endure unmerited blame 1" And the remembrance of the cruel violence ,she had experienced caused the tears to course down her cheeks. "Oh, Leda my daughter! I thank God that you have a devoted husband. Love him, and-cherish him as you would a priceless gem; for no curse can equal that of an ill-assorted marriage. God bless you!" She lay quite still with her fevered hand clasped in her daughter's. Leda also was si- ,lent. Her heart was thrilled by painful emo-   tions. She knew some unusual severity must have produced such agitation in her mother; but she could not probe, the wound without condemning -her father. This she considered wrong. If he were an unnatural husband and parent, she had no right to be an undutiful daughter. Justice and punishment were in the hands of God alone. Her mother's situation was one in which nothing could be done. As she looked down on the delicate suffering form beside her, and took a retrospect of her moth- er's life-its torturing trials-her meek resigna- tion and pious forbearance under daily wrongs- Leda felt that she gazed upon an angel, and her spirit in its anguish cried out to the GreatIn- visible, "How long-how long, Oh, Lord I shall these things be? Let the cup pass from her." After some time Mrs. Elson opened her eyes and told Leda she felt better. Wishing to di- vert her mother, Leda spoke about domestic affairs and her plans for the future in as cheer- ful a manner as she could assume, until her husband called for her. "Good bye, dear mother I I will come to- morrow with Ralph, and stay awhile, for I do not believe he will spare me a whole day un- less your illness makes it necessary." As Leda closed the door Mrs. Elson burst into tears. All joy, all hope seemed shut out from her. Night with its sable wings brooded over her. heart, their "ebon shadow closing out every luminous ray. The lone woman lay there with the heavy agony until Florence's lithesome step came tripping along the passage leading to her room, and in looking at the happy face of her child, she endeavored to forget her own grief. CHAPTER X. The latter part of August the weather be- came' intensely warm. Vegetation drooped languidly beneath the scorching rays of the sun. The atmospheric refraction appeared as a thin film of quivering glassjbefore the eyes, and nature panted under the influence of the blazing heat. Vast clouds of the variety that science denominates the cumulus, in grotesque and ever-varying forms, stood day by day al- most motionless on the horizon, in ghastly whiteness-gigantic portents of evil, myste- rious and "gorgeous palaces.'" of the aerial worlds where (in the language the bard of   Avon ascribes to Prince Henry,) "the spirits of the wise sit and mock at us." Not a sound disturbed the awful stillness that seemed to pervade every living creature, save the monoto- nous dirge of the Gryllus which alone enjoyed the arid glare of day. The air appeared to possess an accumulative calorific power that culminated at night, preventing sleep almost entirely, and reminding one strongly of the hot atmosphere which is said to have tempered the rage and rendered harmless the lions turn- ed upon the gladiators in the amphitheatre of Pompeii, on the day of its destruction by the volcanic eruption of Mount Vesuvius, in the first century of the Christian Era. Terrific hurricanes occasionally swept over the country, but brought no cooling aid to the arid fields. Heaven's artillery waged deafening war, in these fierce battles of the wild spirits of the storm. They seemed midway between earth and -sky, as if embattled hosts were testing their strength by a contest of clanging weapons. Aged inhabitants had their superstition aroused by such extraordinary phenomena, and from them prognosticated dire calamities. Yellow fever held regal sway over Savannah, and a quarantine had been ordered upon all communidation with Brunswick.  Not very long before the non-intercourse regulations, a family had removed to Brunswick from Savan- nah. No fear of the pestilence was felt, al- though there had been an unusual amount of fever in town, until one of the members of the recently arrived family became ill. The case was treated by the best medical advice, but baffled all remedies, and proved mortal. A rumor became prevalent that the corpse had a very suspicious tinge, and some were bold enough to assert that the disease was yellow fever;. A dread, a fearful horror, thrilled every pulse at so alarming a statement. The board of physicians met and announced that there was no yellow fever in the town. The case, so the learned doctors agreed to say, had been one of well developed pneumonia, in their opinion. As a matter of caution, the sanitary regulations of the city were rigidly enforced, and precautions against the epidemic taken. When the results of this profound consultation were given to the public, the wave of fear re- ceded for a season, but only to gather more strength from its momentary ebb, and soon-to burst over the heads of the terror stricken in- habitants. Other deaths speedily followed the one which had caused so much disquiet, and those who     had seen the dead affirmed that a lemon hue overcast each corpse as the spirit fled. Fright, like a devouring element, spread its torturing flames equally around the rich, the poor, the great, the small, levelling all to an equality-a panic stricken mass. Business was suspended. People shut themselves up in their houses, fearing to breathe the pestilential atmosphere, at once the source and destruction of life.* Windows were closed, gates gaped wide on their fast rusting hinges, and everything wore a neglected aspect. What was to be done? Where could they fly to escape the monster death? was the general cry. Again the physi- cians held consultation, and gave the opinion that the yellow fever existed in their midst. Too late came the advice that all who could, should leave the city, unless they had been ex- posed to the infection. Some went. Others remained, too timid to go beyond the reach of medical attention. A few blindly doubted the existence of an epi. demic in their healthful location. Neither Dr. de Coy nor his brother practi tioners had any other knowledge of the yellow fever than that gained from reading; but they had more experience than he had in the treat- ment of local fevers of mild type often seen on the sea-coast of Georgia. Ralph's nature was not prone to shun, duty, even when performed in the midst of danger; but he was most unwilling to expose his grand- mother and wife to the epidemic. He used every persuasion to induce them to go in the country. Mrs.- Hume said she was too old to leave home. She felt no fear, as aged persons were not liable to infection. "If I die, my son, I have cambered the earth long enough; I shall find that rest I have for years been pre- pared for." "Ask no more, Ralph," said Leda, "I am no coward, and I would be a recreant wife to leave you exposed to the jaws of death, while I enjoyed a safe retreat. No, I will stay with you and grandmother. If God calls us we shall die together." Dr. de Coy was in anguish. He clasped Leda to his bosom and again besought her to go p- her presence would only kepe him from giving his whole attention to the suffer- ers. "Dear Ralph, I will go with you. I will help you in all your errands of mercy," and * In the. closing paragraph in the preface of this volume. -In point of fact, the yellow fever never did prevail in Brunswick.   her face irradiated with an enthusiastic deter- mination to be beside every couch of pain. "Let me stay I I should die with anxiety away from you and those I love." Dr. de Coy pressed her hand and left the room. Day by day the angel of desolation flitted through every house, leaving his touch on the forms of the inmates, many of whom went no more in the glowing light of the sun, except on their journey to the last resting place-the foul charnel house. There was not a dwelling exempt from the pestilence, and in many in- stances every inmate was ill at one time. Some dead-some dying, with no kind hand to soothe their last moments before the fatal plunge into the icy river that leads to a boundless eternity. Often a whole family perished in a few days, having none butmen to perform the sad offices to deceased females, even, preparatory to burial. Nothing could be seen on the streets but a few negroes scattering lime as a disin- fectant, the physician's buggy, and the black plumed hearse, hurrying its inmate to the place of interment. Dr. de Coy went day and night in his pro- fessional duties, to benefit some, to speak words of comfort to others, and to prepare many for the narrow coffin. -Yellow fever, near kinsman to death, selects the most shining marks for its attacks. The young, the beautiful, it loves to clasp in its relentless grasp. Mr. Staunton had been among those who doubted the possibility of the deathful epi- demic in so healthful a locality as Brunswick. He rested not long in his fancied but fatal A- curity. He was stricken by the fever. Of what avail then was his wealth, his fine house, his elegant grounds? They could not save him, and ere many days she slept the sleep that knows no waking. One day Dr. de Coy received a summons to attend Mrs. Snowden's 'child as speedily as possible. She was much' worse. "' Leda," said he, "come with me." And they hastened to the home of their beloved pastor. In a. darkened room lay little Mittie, her blue eyes looking wild and glassy, while the flush of fever rested. on her cheek. The child tossed uneasily, and moaned now and then. Mrs. Snowden sat by her, chafing her parched forehead, while the agonized father reclined beside her, now and then putting bits of ice on her tongue. How beautiful seemed that death-stricken child, with her fair curls in wild confusion straying over the snowy pil- low.   Leda went in and stood quietly at the foot of the bed, while her husband examined the little girl's pulse. It was greatly oppressed, and other fatal symptoms were visible. "Mittie," said the doctor, stooping down, "Are you better? Tell me where is the pain?" The child turned her eyes to him, and staring, as if to collect her ideas, she put her clammy hands on her chest, saying,. i Fire-fire burns Mibtie heire!"And again she moaned, and after a few moments she begged for water. "Oh doctor!" said Mrs. Snowden, "Tell me, will my child die?" "She is very ill. I will do all I can to re- store her." "Die," said Mittie, turning her sad eyes again to the doctor, ." Iittie is not afraid to die. Papa says I will go where pretty angels live, and I will have no more fear." "Yes, my daughter," said Mr. Snowden, in as composed a voice as he could command, "You will dwell with the good Saviour who says 'Suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the king. dom of Heaven, and mamma and I shall meet you there." "Come, and go now. I do not wish to leave you. I want you there. Don't cry, mamma," she said, "God will love you when Mittie is gone," and she lay still, a low moan only' escaping liher. Mr. Snowden followed Dr. de Coy out of the room, and in a quivering voice asked if there was no hope. "None," said Ralph," and he wrung the hand of this sorrow-stricken man. "';I would give all I am worth to save her for you." "Mr. Snowden's face assumed an ash color, and he bowed his head in his hands. His pow- erful ftame quivered as a reed. He wrestled hard to kiss the rod of his Maker, and He that never dispises the broken and contrite heart, heard his prayer and gave him strength. Oh, it is hard to give her up, but God's will be done. He loveth whom he chasteneth." "I will call again," said Ralph. "Leda will help you;" and he turned away with a heart warm with sympathy. ' Ali day and all night Leda sat with the af- flicted parents, alleviating the c'ild's agony.'  The fatal vomito came on about midnight, and 1 before' day the panting soul rested in the bosom c of the loving Saviour. Leda, with her own hands, prepared the child for her coffin. She cut off several of her golden s curls, and put them aside for the poor mother. 1 8   Beautiful-in the serene repose of death-did little Mittie Snowden lay with her tiny hands folded across her breast. A peaceful smile was stereotyped by Asrael as he layed his destroy- ing hand upon this beautiful bud in its early bloom, and she looked like a chiseled statue resting in her snowy shroud. Florence Elson had aided in nursing Mr. Staunton'in his last illness. She watched his fleeting breath. She had looked on the form of the dead as it lay in its sublime immobility, awaiting its removal to its narrow house. She put forth her hand and touched the clasped hands, so like Parian marble, in their statuesque repose. Something of the icy, chill penetrated her being, its horror stopping for a second the pulsations of her heart. Who has not felt the barbed arrow of Death thrill his own being with icy and never-ending numbness of heart, as the outstretched hand of affection rested for the first time on the frozen brow of the beloved dead? It is a fore- taste of the frost of death that clings to us through long years from that first hour to the tomb. Florence left Mr. Staunton's house a changed being. Her gay exuberant spirit had fled for-' ever, and in its place reigned the sombre genius of gloom and desolation. Life, which to her had been one broad field of gorgeous flowers, to be culled at leisure, now looked as an arid desert barren of vitality, and filled with heaps of dead men's bones. She felt a nervous hesi- tation at being left alone, and experienced a great mental and physical depression. Have we not a prescience of coming afflictions? Does not God-in-mercy warn us of the wrath to come? All her worst fears were realized when the intelligence came that Terence, in the morning of manly beauty, lay stretched on the bed of pain. Julia and Florence hovered around him, feeling that if good nursing, as was said, often effected a cure, this loved one should soon be restored. Julia was not many hours with her brother before she, too, was stricken. Mrs. Staunton, indifferent to all surroundings since her husband's decease, was awakened to her full misery as she saw both her children laid low. God gave Florence and herself strength- to watch to the end; but as they closed the eyes of the two, in their last sleep, Florence, with a piteous moan, sunk into a swoon, and was taken home to die. In her wild deliriumt she called constantly for Terence and Julia, and, besought God to take her also to Himself.     Mrs. Staunton, as she looked'for the last time on her dead darlings, exclaimed "What have I to live for? . Let me die!"And her desire was gratified. Ere one week elapsed, she rest- ed with her two children. Five graves were clustered together. Florence beside Terence, and, Julia with her father and mother. Devoted in life, they were unsevered in death. The ele- gant mansion of Mr. Staunton descended to a a distant and unappreciative relative who al- lowed it gradually to fall to decay. In a small room, ,with the windows closed and curtains dropped to exclude the light, was a low narrow lounge placed near the centre of the apartment. A worn, carpet covered the floor, and beside the lounge was a table with vials, a wine glass, a pitcher and a lamp. Upon the nicely swept hearth lay the remnant of a fire, and near it were several covered vessels of gruel, tea, etc., and a chair. On the lounge lay the cold, the harsh, the stern and cynical Mr. Elson. The fever-de- mon had marked him for its own. As is often the case, his sufferings were not agonizing, and he lay comparatively free from pain. Seldom having been ill in a long life, he felt the re- straint of a sick room press heavily upon his short stock of patience, and knowing the dan- gerous character of his malady, he was very doubtful of a favorable termination. Fever gave a preternatural quickness to the workings of the brain. As he lay there alone, naturally he was led to a retrospect of his life. Every act came before him in all its kaleidoscopic changes, with the utmost precision-his early manhood, his marriage and the subsequent events. The fair Catherine Courcy, with her 4broad hands, and a vivid picture of her young, Sweet face and symmetrical form, decked in her bridal robes as he led her to the altar, appeared to his excited imagination. And the care-worn wife of to-day, with her placid brow and never- varying kindness as she flitted with fairy steps around the room, supplying his every want. What was there in the contrast which made that unbending hard man writhe in his bed? Con- science pointed at him her condemning finger, and remorse was at work preying on his soul. When he analyzed his feelings, he could not but admit that the matrimonial incentive of his heart had been mercenary, and that his wife's reputed wealth had been the great magnet of attraction. His expectations of a large fortune were disappointed, and the corroding influence of frustrated hopes soon eat away the delicate -coating of fancied love with which he had de-   ceived himself, not less than the lady of his choice. Hence, all the darker side of his na- ture had been turned to her, while his brighter qualities were exhibited to the world. And his children I Thoughts of them brought no healing balm to his tortured mind. He had been an unloving father-thwarting their little pleasures, repelling their childish affections. Florence, handsome, gay-like a bright meteor, she had flashed for a moment with a luminous lustre in the zenith of young womanhood, and disappeared, leaving a deeper gloom, a striking contrast to the momentary light. To her he could never make reparation. To his wife and Leda he could, and he determined to speak while there was yet time. A tight step fell on the carpet, and Mrs. Elson entered the room with a cup in her hand. She aplroached the bed. "I have brought you some broth. Will you take some? I can raise your head." She lifted his head and he tasted a little. "Thank you," he said. "I have had enough. Has the doctor been here?" "Not since early this morning." "Does he think my situation precarious? "He thinks you very ill, said the wife, but we all hope that with care you wilJ soon re- cover."            ,t '4 Hope is delusive. I believe that I have only a few days to live. Catherine, my whole life has been a mistake. Could I retrace my career, your lot would be different. I took you from a pleasant home, surrounded with luxu- reis, and hove led you a cruel life of poverty and ill treatment. "Dot not speak of what is past. I have no regrets. We all have our faults, and often let them govern us under provocation." "' You have no regrets, because your acts have been consistent with the teachings of the Bible; but mine, alas I they emaniated from a heart full of cruelty, and were carried out to gratify the promptings of a vindictive temper. Catherine, I married you without much affec- tion, urged by the sordid desire for gain. I found you not so wealthy as I supposed. I was angry with you, although I knew very well it was not your fault that I had been disappointed. I showed my resentment by rude conduct, and a domineering spirit. Your meek piety, under daily wrongs, irritated me because it showed you my superior, and put my wickedness to shame, incapable of disguise from myself." -". Do not talk so much. You will injure your- self," urged Mrs. Elson, seeing the flush of ex-   citement deepen on his face. "I never treas- ured any ill-feelings toward you." "The knowledge of your forbearance but adds to my contrition. I would give the wealth of the world" At this juncture a gentle rap was heard at the door, and Leda asked admittance. Mrs. Elson, knowing her husband's reserve and dis- like of any exhibition of sentiment before oth- ers, begged her daughter to retire to the parlor for a short timne. "No, let her come in,'Catherine. Of what use is repentance, if it shuns publicity? It is due to yoi, as well as to your daughter, that I should express my, compunction at my harsh treatment of both of you." Leda approached her father, kindly inquiring how he felt. "I suffer no bodily pain, 2but remorse has its' piercing talons clutched firmly around my heart.! I would give all of this world's goods,' did I own them, for a few years of life, that I might' show by deeds. as I now do by faint words, how deeply, how sorrowfully I regret my brutal treat- ment to my wife and my children. Alas I! that we awake from the wild delirium of sin too late, too late to do good-too late to make our peace with an offended God!" "Dear father, you talk too much I Do not reproach yourself. God never turns from a contrite spirit, and he will bless you and for- give whatever of sin you may have committed. All of us are sinners." Mr. Elson was seized with violent vomiting, and fell back quite exhausted. Mrs. Elson begged Leda to send for the doctor. While they anxiously watched the patient, and await- ed the doctor's advent, a servant entered and handed Mrs. Elson a note, which read thus: "Catherine, I am dying. Remember your. promise, and respect my summons. At Poly- dora's cabin.           R." Mrs. Elson read the note, and the hue of death overspread her face, giving her the ap pearance of a corpse. Dear mother, what can be the matter?" ex- claimed Leda. Mrs. Elson shook her head, and then said in a hollow whisper, "I have been sent for. I must go. Child, watch beside your father until my return." She left the room, threw on her bonnet and went out of the house. At the gate she nmet Ralph. She described her husband's symptoms, and asked if he was in immediate danger. Dr. de Coy' said he thought not. Making an incoherent excuse, the agitated wo- man hurried on, sometimes in a fast walk, then,   in a run. She reached her destination quite out of breath, rapped and without waiting, pushed the door open and entered. On a soiled mattress lay a powerful man, tossing from side to side, as if no position could bring ease, aud uttering impatient groans. The witch sat in the chimney corner, stirring the ingredients of some nostrum in a worn cup. As Mrs. Elson approached the bed, the wo- man's eyes shot forth a savage gleam, and rock- ing to and fro, she began her low chant, swell- ing gradually her croaking voice as she pro- nounced, "' Woe, woe, woe to the rich as the pestilence comes by"I "Cease thy ravings, vile hag " exclaimed the man, t" and tremble lest the pestilence take yoi1,where you will reap your reward. I would have silence." MA shudder crept through Mrs. Elson's ex- tited nerves, and she said in a low tremulous to ne, "I have come at your command; speak your behest quickly. I have left the dying to aid you." "I thank you," said the man. Polydora had taken no heed to the commands of the outlaw, and continued her chant. ' Stop your howlings, foul witch, or you shall rue your disobedience " exclaimed the man, with several blasphemous oaths. "Ha I ha! we don't fear the viper after its fangs are drawn. Base man! know that I dread you no more." And again the crone sung her dirge, and stirred her cup. "Oh, inr mercy heed her not!" . exclaimed Mrs. Elson. "Tell me how I can serve you. I must be gone." She stooped down beside the stranger. "I sent for you to say that I did not use all the money you furnished. In a parcel which shall be conveyed to you after my death is twice the original sum. Take the package and hand it to the person from whom you-got the gold. It is all the reparation I can make. The bag is inclosed. What a hell of remorse did not a sight of that bag bring to me!"And the man called down the most impious imprecations on his own head!l "Oh, forbear!" said Mrs. Elson. "Try to pray. There is yet time for repentence. God is merciful; he can save you." "Too late-for me there is no hope. Like Altamont, 'I turn and turn, and find no ray.' Leave me alone in my misery. The sight of you adds more torture to my polluted soul. You have sons. Remember my death bed and rear them in the way they should go."     "Aye!" said the crone with a chuckle, " the devil puts on priestly robes when he works most evil. Death don't want you. Satan has plenty more work for you to do on earth." The man showered many oaths on the witch, saying, 4 If I do live, I shall repay you for this day's work." "I dread you not, man of blood." Mrs. Elson stood horror-struck. Again she asked if she could afford assistance. "No, leave me I You have fulfilled your mission." Dropping on her knees, Mrs. Elson prayed aloud " that God, in mercy, would bring peace to the sin-sick soul of him now lying on the bed of pain, or restore him and work out his salva- tion through the mercy of Christ, whose blood could atone for all crime." As that meek wo- man prostrate beside the bed, her pale face up- turned and glowing with religious fervor, plead- ed for mercy for the outlaw in the house of vice and misery, a hush fell on the blasphemous oaths of the man and the fiendish chants of the woman. The touching scene wpuld have melt- ed hearts of adamant. For a few moments the presiding demon of that cabin was exorcised. Mrs. Elson rose, and nodding a farewell-a solemn adieu, she left the cabin and hastened to her own home. Now she could tell all to her husband where she had been on the day of the tempest, and why she was absent on the pres- ent occasion. It was late. The air was smoky, and the fast sinking sun hung suspended in the heavens, a great crimson globe set out saliently from the leaden colored cloud-curtain in the back ground. It was a gorgeous sight, but it filled Mrs. Elson, by its magnificent sublimity, with an awful dread of coming ill, and her in- finite littleness in comparison with the im- mensity of the carnation ball swinging so omi- nously in the dreadful sky, was oppressive. She entered her house feeling much fatigued. There was perfect stillness reigning there, and her foot-falls sounded hollow as she traversed the entry and gained her husband's doors It was ajar. She walked in with a sentence framed on her lips, but before her lay the dead. Uttering a wild shriek, she fell on the floor, and was removed to another room. When she re- covered consciousness, she asked Dr. de Coy to go to the hut of Polydora and see a man needing aid. She expressed a desire that Mr. Snowden should go too. Ralph took the pas- tor there, and together they alleviated the mis- ery of the sufferer as much as lay in their power. Ralph felt a greater interest in this being, on    recognizing him as the innocent author of the painful accident, and his subsequent happiness felt in his alliance with Leda Elson. Leda returned from her father's funeral so much indisposed as to be unable to leave her chamber. Like Antigone, she had " dared to do the deed of piety in the teeth of the pestil- ence ;" and fatigue, anxiety and distress caused fever to supervene, For many days her life was dispaired of; but at length her agonized husband had his prayer answered, and she was free from danger. During her illness, her brother James and Mrs. Hume both died, and Leda had their loss to mourn when her health permitted her husband to unfold the sad tidings to her. The thirst of yellow fever is insatiable, and each day saw new victims swell the num- ber who had already perished. Not until the middle of November did the delayed frost drive back this devastating foe. Long will its rav- ages be remembered, for each houselfold had to mourn links rudely broken from the family chain. When business was resumed, and Brunswick began once more to assume its oldlook of be- ing inhabited, Dr. de Coy and his wife per- suaded Mrs. Elson to remove with Edward to their home, and let her house. This she will- ingly agreed to. Her health was wrecked, and her home teemed with distressing memories of other days and departed friends. A day of thanksgiving and prayer was set apart by the authorities for those who had been spared in the recent epidemic. It was a solemn occasion. Of the members of the congrega- tion almost all were shrouded in blacK as they lifted their hearts in adoration in the simple vil- lage church. Nearly a third of the population had been swept away. Mr. Snowden had tasted of the bitter waters of affliction, and could mingle his tears and his sighs with those of his sorrowing flock. He selected as a text the first clause of verse 12, of the 5th chapter of Ezekiel, "A third of thee shall die with the pestilence." This prophecy was spoken of the wicked inhabitants of Jerusalem by the Lord, who addressed himself to the prophet Ezekiel. The minister, while he believed that the recent destroyer which had been amongst them was sent as a reproof for their sins, led his audience to feel that it was meet they should acknowl- edge their sins in all humility, and lift their hearts in adoration to God, when he had spared so many; and that they should beseech Him to sanctify their sorrows to them. As a skillful stone-mason places one block of ,          ,    ,   granite upon another, fitting them securely to- gether with cement, until the whole rises a com- pact, regular wall of beautiful, orderly propor- tion, so Mr. Snowden selected words clear and energetic. connecting them together with the utmost nicety. Each glowing sentence was vivified with earnestness and pathos, the whole forming a torrent of argument perspicacious and powerful in its influence to purify the sel- fishness and sin of each individual. None, ex-' cept those wholly given over to the pernicious canker of worldliness, could listen to his ser- mons without feeling acutely that he was a sinner, and experiencing a desire to become better. There was none of the anchoretic austerity pervading Mr. Snowden's mainners. Gently, lovingly, he made each hearer feel that he was a sinner. He led them to experience contrition for sin. There, by his simple, un- affected, child-like piety, he pointed to the glorious light of the Gospel of Christ as" a: panacea for all woes. The sweet promise ofa  blessed reunion hereafter with the, loved and lost, which was secured to each and all by the maintenance of a pure heart in this life, was urged as a blessed reward for all the mniseries of this sin-darkened world. He closed with a touching prayer that the beloved assembly, clothed in mourning before him, s,hould have -lght ono above poured upon their sorrowing hearts. "Weeping may endure for a night, but joy comneth in the mo(rning." The whole congregation were melted to tears, and as Leda left the sanctuary she was filled with gratitude to the great Creator that her husband ard her mother were still spared to her. The veil' which hides the future from our sight is indeed a a a veil woven by the hand of mercy." Leda was one of those persons who regard incessant repinings inimical to the true essence of religion; hence, she set about bringing order out of the confusion which reigned in her house consequent upon the 'ravages of the yellow fever. Labor is a powerful panoply against the subversive encroachments of sorrow. True, there were moments when she was overwhelm ed with gloom, and a vague fear that her morn- ing pf joy was not near yet; but she battled, against the foe with unremitting vigilance, and her real or assumed cheerfulness didl much to- ward buoying her mother and Ralph out of the "Slough of Despond." One morning Dr. de Coy received a very ur- gent call to go to see a very ill person ten miles away. A boat was sent for him, and the journey led across St.'Andrew's Sound.   He was very unwell. His recent superhu- man exertions to relieve the afflicted had left its ravages on both his health and spirits. Leda urged him not to go. It was a cold, boisterous day, and some other physician might be in- duced to obey the summons. "The call is imperative; the disease a dan- gerous one, requiring immediate attention. I had better go, Leda. It is weak to yield to a a reluctance when not founded upon good causes." "But, Ralph, your poor state of health is a sufficient reason for you remaining. Please stay. I shall be so lonely, so anxious about you until you return." "A physician is servant to the public, and though you hold out cogent inducements, dar ling, I had better go and do my duty. Do not be ineasy about me. I shall take the best of eare, and unless sormething unusual prevents, it shall- )e here about ten to-night, when the tide suits." "The time will be so long, dear Ralph. How shall I spend a whole day without you?" "I feel sorely tempted to stay; but I ought to go. My dearest, best little wife, good bye I Be cheerful until my return. Think how I shall feel away from you, and the thought will moderate your loneliness," and kissing her several times, le left. All day Leda employed herself in putting her room in thorough order, and arranging a new set of curtains. In the afternoon she felt' more cheerful. The time was fast nearing when her husband would return, and he would ad- mire, with her, the improved appearance of everything in their apartment. As night ap- proached, the wind freshened, and blew very hard, while dark clouds hovered black and threatening in the northeastern sky. The weath- er was chilly, and Leda had a large fire lighted in her room, some coffee made, and clothing hung over a chair that it might be warm when Ralph came, damp and cold. She drew a chair and tried to read, but every blast of wind, as it moaned a requiem round the house, seemed to pierce her and recall recollections burdened with agony. Was she nervous, or what was the matter? She walked to the window and .look- ed out; nothing met her gaze but darkness. She looked at her watch. The hands pointed to 9. "He will soon be here," she said aloud, with a glad smile illumining her face, looking white by contrast with her sombre dress. Again the wind-spirit howled, shaking the trees which rattled against the house top. She resumed her     book, but her thoughts went straying away to a young, handsome form as he was rocked on the bosom of the wavy deep in his journey to his love. Ten o'clock came-Leda's expectation became so intense that she no longer tried to read, but paced the floor, now and then gazing from the windows. Once she fancied she heard the' well known footstep of her husband on the piazza, but the sound died away, and still her hopes were deferred. She sat until twelve, but Ralph appeared not. She became very anxious, all the time trying to reason away her fears. Dr. de Coy often was unpunctual from necessi- ty. He had said his patient was dangerously ill, and no doubt he was delayed from that cause. She retired, but not to sleep. All night she tossed wearily, restlessly, on her pillow; and against all her logic, a terror seemed to have taken possession of her. The morning rose clear and cold with a fresh- ening wind, and Leda awaked from an uneasy nap full of troubled dreams. Her perturba- tion had scarce abated, though she hoped each moment to have her mind set at ease by the appearance of the loved cause. She did not mention her disappointment at her husband's failure to come the previous night to her moth- er, because she did not wish to annoy her. She endeavored to persuade herself that her dis- quiet was the result of physical disturbance. Thus the morning wore away. After dinner Mr. Snowden called to see Ralph. Leda men- tioned her fears concerning his delay since the previous night ; and the gentleman, promising to set on foot some investigations, left. He walked directly to the wharf, hoping, if not to meet Dr. de Coy, to hear some tidings of him. On approaching the river, Mr. Snowden saw a group of men talking, and going up to them, he inquired if there was any news. "Yes," said one, "a negro has just been picked up on a capsized boat, almost ex- hausted from cold and fatigue. He was one of the rowers in the boat bringing Dr. de Coy home last night. The boat was upset by the rough wind and waves, and fears are entertain- ed that the doctor and two others are drowned." "I hope not," replied Mr. Snowden. "Has the negro been interrogated?" "Yes; he says a sudden squall struck the boat, which filled with water and upset, throw- ing them all out. The night was dark; the wind and waves high; and he never could have survived had he not got hold of the boat." "Could not the doctor and the others swim?" asked Mr. Snowden.   "Yes," replied several of the crowd; " but who could make headway, or keep above water, on such a night? I do not entertain a doubt of the doctor's fate." "Oh I I hope your fears are groundless, and he may soon appear to relieve our alarm. Mean- time, a search must be made, quickly. There is no time to be lost," said the good minister, now thoroughly frightened and horrified. "Peter Sterne, the fisherman, has already started in search. He can find the missing men if any one can. He knows all the inlets and every wave in the sound." "Another boat must be dispatched also," said Mr Snowden promptly. "A liberal re- ward shall be paid." Two men offered their services, which were engaged. "Be energetic, boys," said Mr. Snowden. "Remember Mrs. de Coy must soon hear these distressing tidings, and think what she will suf- ffer. While you are getting ready, I will seek the negro and get all information I can from him for you. He may have some definite idea where the catastrophe occurred." The men went to pre- pare, and Mr. Snowden sought the negro, who said he thought, as nearly as he could judge, that they were opposite St. Simon's Island when the boat upset. The minister reported the in- formation to the proper parties, saw them start in search of Dr. de Coy, and went to relieve Leda's doubts, but confirm her fears. He would gladly have withheld all rumors from Mrs. de Coy, but knowing they would reach her, he thought he could unfold them to her best him- self. Mr. Snowden possessed a heart over- flowing with sympathetic kindness, and it har- rowed him to give pain to others. He, too, justly merited the exalted epithet bestowed so deservedly on the great emperor Titus, "Delicice hurmani generis." For he was universally beloved by all who knew him. Cautiously, gently, he told Leda the alarming rumors, urging her to be calm and await with what patience she could the return of the boats. He hoped a favorable result; but if God willed otherwise, she must trust to him for strength to wear the additional painful cross sent upon her. And Leda was calm. She looked in her immovable whiteness as if suddenly touched by the finger of Medusa. She replied not; her very utterance was petrified.   CHAPTER XI. Dr. de Coy, always popular, had made him- self universally beloved by his noble sacrifices and constant labors in mitigating the horrors of the recent pestilence, especially among the poor. His fate, weighing in the balances, was watched with intense interest by all. At night the boats returned with no tidings. All the neighboring shores had been visited but nothing was seen of the missing. Day by day for a week, parties went forth on the search, each day doomed to fresh disappointment. As the hours moved on with funeral pace to Leda's tortured brain, each moment seemed to assume the length of a year. The certainty of the most overwhelming grief is a trifle in comparison with the frightful hor- rors of .quspense. Leda was like one in a trance. She wandered, silent and restless, spirit-like, around the house, sometimes mut- tering to herself. Despair filled her soul, paint- ing panoramic scrolls of terrific pictures which moved slowly before her overstrained imagina- tion, scorching themselves indelibly upon her memory with ever-during vividness. Occasion- ally hope, argent-winged, like an angel, flapped his pinions across these :ceues for a moment, brightening them, but to leave her in worse agony by the contrast of recurrent despair. On the sixth day the bodies of Dr. de Coy and a negro were found on St. Simon's beach, amid the breakers, "As shaken on his restless pillow, His head heaves with the heaving billow." Even the rude fisherman dashed away a tear as they saw his manly form locked in the em- ; brace of death, and remembered how recently v his hand had been outstreched in their behalf. e His corpse was taken to Brunswick and sol- emnly borne to his dwelling.   - Leda put her hand lovingly on the cold fore- c head and smoothed the damp locks clinging I to it. No sound, no tears escaped her. Her ^ grief was too deep for them. Her friends feared I her reason was obscured.  Mrs. Snowden s begged Mrs. Elson to let Leda be taken to the a parsonage until the funeral was over. Mrs. n Elson assented, and a physician being called in, sleep was induced by powerful anodynes. c Leda remained with the good people for a n week. She evinced no interest in anyone, but e was docile and yielding, to all. At last Mrs. Snowden brought little Ellen, her remaining 1   child, in Leda's room. Something in her fair curls and chubby baby hands reminded Leda of little Mittie as she last saw her dressed for her coffin. She burst into tears. She could i- weep for others' woes, but not for her own. s Beautiful comment on her unselfish nature I s  Gradually Leda awoke to the full extent of e her loneliness. Her future held out nothing s cheering. Her mother's health seemed fast yielding to the mighty hosts of sorrows which  besieged her. Possessing, like the mother of , the Gracchi, a superior mind, enlightened by education, Leda rose sublimely above the cal- amities of life. Misfortune might oppress, butit could " not deprive her of that serenity and reso- lution which never forsakes virtue in, the day of - adversity." With a subdued self-possession, she thanked the kind pastor and his wife Ifor their hospitality to her, and returned to her desolated honie. She resumed her school, and endeavored to forget her own griefs, in bestowing good upon others. She seldom spoke of Ralph. Their wedded life of a few months had been very happy, notwithstanding the manifold afflictions which encircled it. Some people thought Mrs. de Coy apathetic. They little understood her nature. There were times when it took all of her religion to suppress the murmurings which would arise against the justice of the Almighty in bereaving her of nearly all her beloved ones, while others were joyfully surrounded by theirs. The very sunshine, the flowers, the sweet carol of the birds in their daily matins, the sound of mirth or cheerfulness, all fell as a mockery on her bleeding heart, and she wished to die. Hourly she resolutely struggled against these feelings; and as a year rolled by, bringing the anniversary of her loss, she was aware that she was more resigned, although grief preyed pow- erfully upon her still. Ralph de Coy had not lived long enough to accumulate a fortune. Very soon after his death, the bank in which Mrs. Hume's princi- pal possessions were invested failed, and there was very little left[ beside the dwelling house for Leda. Her wants were moderate, and by in- structing her brother Edward herself, there was a sufficiency of means left to supply her own needs, and those of Mrs. Elson and her son. About two years after her affliction, Leda re- ceived letters relative to some unfinished busi- ness in Savannah pertaining to Mrs. Hume's estate. / This could have been arranged probably by letter; but Leda's friends persuaded her to go     in person. They hoped change of scene would prove a diversion from the melancholy sur- roundings of her native village. It was evident that Leda's sorrows, silently borne, were affect-, ing her health as they manifestly did her spirits. Very 'reluctantly Mrs. de Coy agreed to this proposition, after urgent persuasion by her friends. The world was of no interest to her, and as a great writer remarked to himself, she felt alone in a crowd. However, she made the necessary preparations and began her journey in the company of some acquaintances, who promised Mrs. Elson to take special charge of her daughter, and dd all they could to enliven the trip. Mrs. de Coy had a very pleasant time going to Savannah. Everything she saw was disconnected from herself, and led her thoughts away from that painful theme. Her business was finished in a very satisfactory manner, and she started on her return home with new de- terminations a.,d-renewed energies, on the Sea Gull, .a fine steam packet, recently built for the inland route. The weather was very mild and fine, and everything promised a prosperous and speedy passage. The tide not suiting in some of the shallow inlets on the route through which this voyage was usually pursued, the ves- sel ran out at sea a part of the way. The wind blew freshly, and the sea heaved in long undu- lating swells, rocking gently the handsome little steamer, which sat on its bosom with the grace of a swan. The ladies, some of them, having never been on the ocean, all went upon deck to enjoy the scene and prevent sea sickness by keeping in the open air. Leda was delighted at the prospect. The greenish world of waters around her, with its white foam-crested waves, leaping playfully in the far distance, seemed to the eye to stretch away boundless as eternity. The fast receding land; the blue sky, with its thin floating clouds hugging the horizon ; the sea breeze; the sooth- ing roll of the vessel as she ploughed her way through the briny deep, leaving her pbath of foam behind as transitory as human joys, all in- spired her imaginations with illimitable soarings toward the throne of the Eternal. She was filled with an indescribable sublimityfrom these contemplations, and felt the rapture of being alone in the lofty flight of our own thoughts, though in the midst of numbers of fellow-be- ings,*  Among the passengers were two men a little apart from a group of gentlemen. One, young, handsome, with large pensive black eyes and raven curls, with his beard trimmed in a pecu--   liar manner; the other was of middle age, dark visaged, also handsome, but of that order of manly beauty which made the beholder turn away with the feeling that the elegant casket contained only imitations of jewels. The elder party had evidently a flow of language at once instructive and interesting, to which the young man gave undivided attention. "What an air of desolation pervades every- thingin the sunny South?" he remarked. "The touch of decay is everywhere visible; and yet this country, with its great agricultural, manu- facturing find mineral resources, ought to be the garden spot of the world." "To what cause is it attributable?" asked the elder, with an ironic smile on his lips. v "To the one plague-spot which is a blot on the nation. Since the day when the noble Wil- berforce set in motion the ball of indignation, against the giant slavery, it has rolled on through the whole civilized world, and in. creased in momentum. I predict that not many years will sweep over America ere it is crushed forever. Then and not till then will the South bloom as a garden." "Perhaps your prediction may be verified. The subject of emancipation has given food for the exercise of combativeness among our Con- gressmen for more than a half century. But any great social revolution, such as you men- tion, would shake the nation to its very foun- dation. And years must elapse ere such a tremendous upheaval as it would cause could be quieted. -Things are well' enough as they are." "I have had bitter prejudices instilled in me by intercourse with Europeans," said the young gentleman., "My travels did not produce that effect on me. Torender oretology effective, practice and precept"-y ust inseparable. Why does not Britain enta'icipate her Irish and her Indians, more degraded into abject slavery than any ne- gro in America?" "Poverty ever brings a species of slavery. Such is felt by the Irish and Hindoostanees, but they are neither bought nor sold," replied the younger, as he bit his lip, and changed the con- versation. Leda observed these two people, and she felt convinced that she had seen the dark face of the elder stranger somewhere, Painful memo- ries were awakened, and she became lost in con- templation from which she was startled by a sudden deep hollow sound as from a simultane- - ous discharge of a battery of cannon. . This   was followed by a concussion of the air-a tremor of the' boat, and a general crash, as if the decks and cabins had been crushed togeth- er. The steam boiler had exploded, tearing away a part of one side of the ship. Terror was depicted on every countenance, and each person stood chained by a spell from the unexpected catastrophe. Fragments of glass were scattered all over the deck, and the vessel careened to one side. She was so shattered that it was 'evidelk she must sink in a short timne. A scene of wild confusion and horror pre- vailed throughout the rapidly sinking vessel, which was filling with water by every re- curring wave. Ladies, children and men, were huddled together near the cabin. Fright and despair was painted on eveiy face; and yet not a word escaped the lips, too profoundedly sealed by panic to utter sounds. As yet noth- ing definite was known. Each one felt that some undefined, awful calamity had occur- red, and that the grim King of Terrors was at hand. At length some of the men seemed slowly to collect their senses to devise means of safety. The yawls were lowered from the side of the wrecked ship. Chairs, tables and settees were thrown into the water. Leda, never a very excitable person, and rendered more stoical under dangers from those so recently passed through, stood a silent ob- server. Her life had few charms, and she felt a strange awe that she should mAet death from the same element so fatal to Ralph. As she looked over the shattered fragments upon which rested her slender tenure life, and down into the deep, dark abyss of raging waters, she closed her eyes for a moment in a prayer for strength. Her hands involuntarily closed in a rigid clutch, which left the impression of the nails in her palms. "O God!" she thought, "receive my spirit!" At this moment she felt something' push her f violently, and, a. sensible fall of several feet followed immediately. She opened her-eyes to find herself in a small boat, the strange young man she had observed some hours before pull- ing a cloak around her. "Are you hvi-t ,' he asked a low voice. f "No," she said, and he set about receiving E other ladies, who either jumped or were thrown c into the little bark.           a ' A hoarse voice cried out, while this was go- c ing on, "i Keep out of the wake of the ship, or a we shall be sunk," while these from the deck, n   a seeing the yawl shove off, pleaded in agony not f to be left to perish. This was no time for weak - regrets. To keep a long side but insured the g doom of the boat, while it could not aid the wretched passengers so soon to sink. The boat rowed off some distance. .Leda n was filled with intense ,horror as she beheld men, women and children, shrieking and wring- r ing their hands in anguish on the deck of the  settling steamer. Many of the men jumped out and clung to floating chairs in the roaring sea. At this moment a cry of fire pierced the air, and Iiried flames leaped, hissed and darted amid the smoke, adding more terrific grandeur and confusion to the fearful picture. It called to mind descriptions of autos dafe Leda had read of, and she closed again her eyes to shut out the .sickening sight. Just then a long murky wave swept over the Sea Gull and sev- ered her into two parts with a heavy crash, and cracking of timbers. Wild, agonized, prolonged, dismal shrieks from the dying and the doomed rent the air, while the rush, the surge of the agitated waters lent its voice to swell that choir of music, chanting a last sublime requiem over the fated as they fell into the engulphing waves which served theni both for winding sheet and sepul- chre. Suddenly the fragments of the steamer sunk with their burden of human creatures to rise no more, and nothing but eddies of foam and bubbles of air remained to mark transiently the spot so recently occupied by the fated ship and the doomed human beings who went down with her forever. Two other yawls awaited at some distance the finale to the horrible tragedy just enacted, and to render what assistance they could. To !remain longer near the scene was but to endan- ger their own safety and to agonize the sur- vivors anew by witnessing the struggles of per- ishing fellow-beings, without the ability of af- fording the slightest aid. The boats leaked badly, and it was afternoon. They were ten or twelve miles from land. The ocean every moment grew more rough under the increased wind. It was cold, and the suf- ferers were wet from the spray which came freely over them from the breaking waves. The boat Leda found herself in was provided with only two oars. The men rowed by turns. Awe and silence pervaded the party. "The noise of many waters" mingling with the groans and agonizing cries of the drowning for help grew more faint as the little barks receded farther     and farther from the spot where the struggling human beings wrestled vainly with the elements for life. After some hours of labor, the sufferers were cheered by the'approach to lanid; but between the boats and the shore were the breakers roar- ing and dashing with awful significance, threat- ening destruction to all who should attempt to reach it. Behind them lay the broad ocean -with its fearful memories. Before them seemed destruction scarcely less certain. The men were fatigued; night was approaching, and the gale was increasing in force every moment. The frail barks must be speedily beeched. It was agreed that one of the boats should at- tempt the landing first. The one that bore Leda having the most experienced seamen, was selected for that purpose. It was a moment of intense anxiety to the occupants of all the boats, as the frail craft rose on the summit of the first wave, and tried to ride on the crest of the next. For a few seconds nothing but the angry foam, roaring like a vast malstrom of wrath, could be seen. The boat had capsized, and all her crew were struggling to gain a foot- ing in the boiling surf. After some time sev- eral persons were seen walking on the beach. These rested briefly, and then rushing into the water, dragged out four other apparently lice- less forms. Two I more were soon afterward taken ashore, and the party threw themselves on the sand to thank God for deliverance, and to rest for a few seconds. Leda, although out of danger, lay on the shore in almost an insensible condition. Again she owed her life to the same peculiar looking man whose face had interested her only an hour prior to the catastrophe. One of the seamen went in search of aid, and after a time returned from the hospitable Island- ers with food, warm coffee, blankets and ve- hicles. The other boats were assisted in getting to a good landing. The ladies and gentlemen were taken to a comfortable house, and cared for. Their plight was pitiable; their clothing saturated with sea water, their bodies exhausted with fatigue, and their minds appalled with the horrible scenes they had just witnessed. Leda's constitution, already impaired by yellow fever, felt the shock of the catastrophe very severely, and she was too ill to be removed soon from the kind refuge she bad found. A steamer from Savannah soon supplied the place of the lost boat, and con- veyed the escaped passengers to their respec- tive homes.   Upon a sloping shore of the broad river, St. John's, in Florida, a gentleman was landed by a passing steamer. He sauntered slowly along, looking affectionately at every tree and flower which met his eager glance. His heart bound- ed with mingled emotions as he walked down the avenue and caught a view of the residence he was approaching. Each shrub and tree was an old friend, and time had wrought but few changes on the aspect of nature since he last saw the spot. He, wondered if his mother would recognize in him her little melancholy delicate Paul; if his sister would now prove a more congenial companion than formerly. How would grand-mother receive him? And he sighed heavily as he remembered that the rough, generous-hearted old sailor slept under the moss-draped oaks in the silent city of the dead. Paul walked on, entered the house where silence reigned, and found his mother sitting abstractedly in her own room with a book on her knee. She looked up inquiringly and somewhat sternly at this unannounced intrusion, as the neatly 'dressed gentleman went up to her. * Mother, you no longer recognize your little Paul?" Mrs. Ravenel uttered a cry of gladness, lnd threw herself into her son's arms, almost smoth- ering him with caresses. Holding his hand, she stood off and surveyed him. "The blood of the Ravenels predominates," she said, "in the outward form; and," she continued more to herself, "I trust the heart is right-is exempt from levity. I knew your voice,; that is unchanged. O, my son I I shall die content, now these eyes have seen you once more;" and again she .pressed Paul to her heart. ", Where is sister? Has she no welcome for the prodigal's return?" A sorrowful cloud swept over Mrs. Rave- nel's face.             ' "Is she, too, dead?"Paul inquired in a low tone, and tremulously. "Yes, dead to me I Better physical death than to outlive principle." "What do you mean, dear mother?" ex- claimed Paul; all his proud European prejudice flying to arms at this allusion to family shame. "She married far beneath her station, and thenceforth became dead to me ;" and she pro- ceeded to explain at length the sad chain of events connected with Blanche.   Paul spent hours of each day recounting his adventures and actions during the years of ab- sence, and in listening to his mother's expe- riences. She was not difficult to persuade to accompany him home to Europe. There was nothing to keep her longer in America; and to live near her beloved son would complete Her measure of happiness. Paul occupied him- self in arranging his mother's affairs, and was never at a loss for amusement at his early home.    , St. Angustine! quaint old city with its trees of the date, the orange, and the lemon, and its narrow streets and secluded verandas, all breathing of three hundred years ago, when bright-eyed Spanish senoritas smiled approv- ingly on high-born hidalgos, and the chivalry of Old Spain trod the pavements of the oldest city in the United States. Alas, that dilapida- tion should be visible upon so many buildings, still full of interest to the beholder, who now gazes only on the wreck of the past Such thoughts filled the mind of Mr. Howard as he walked upon the sea wall toward the castle of St. Marks, now called Fort Marion. As he entered the gateway of the Fort, he met most unexpectedly the stranger he had con- versed with so pleasantly on the Sea Gull, and mutually they narrated their escape. The sight of this person reminded Mr. Howard of a desire he felt to know who the beautiful pale girl was whose life he had twice the good fortune to save. He inquired her nanie and place of residence, and if her life had been spared from the illness she labored under when he had left her. The gentleman knew nothing of her since the loss of the steamer. Her name was Leda de Coy, and her hom'e Brunswick. "A romantic name, and almost as pretty as she is. How beautiful she looked as I rescued her from the water-a pale dripping sea nymph. Fit model for a sculptor's chisel or a painter's brush." "  Young man, you indulge deeply in youth- . ful folly. Wait until you attain my years, and X you will laugh at romance as an idle dream,  especially when. connected with, anything so i false and fickle as woman." "What," inquired Mr. Howard, " do you  v know of the mermaid's frivolity? Tell me E about her."                E '  Oh I I know nothing of her in particular. 1 The sex is filled with levity and vanity."? "I do not believe such a universal aspersion. i I know my sea-nymph must be perfection," f replied Mr. Howard, laughing, and he saun-   tered along to examine the fort, while the stranger returned to the city proper. Leda recovered slowly from the prolonged sea bath she had so unexpectedly and un- willingly taken, and as soon as she was conva- lescent, returned home. Words are faint to de- rscribe the joy with which -she was greeted by her fond friends after her imminent peril. Mrs. I Elson declared she should never trust her be- t loved child on the treacherous ocean again; and if Leda's character had not been too well 3balanced by her religion, the adulation bestow- 3 ed upon her might have made her vain. Some weeks after her return home, as she was teach- ing Edward in her own room, one day a servant entered, handing her a card, upon which was engraved in old English letters, "Mr. Howard." Making some slight improve- ment in her toilet, she entered the parlor, and beheld her preserver. Very pretty looked her delicate classic face and sylph-like form, ar- rayed in her widow's weeds; and Mr. Howard thought he had never listened to a more sweetly modulated voice as she thanked him for saving her life. "I did nothing, madam, worthy of remark. I should have been devoid of the common at- tributes of' a human being had I not rescued some of the sufferers." "It does not change my feeling of thankful- ness, however," said Leda,and she led the conversation to other topics. Mr. Howard told Leda he had been induced to call, having learn- ed her name fromAan acquaintance, to inquire if she had recovered from her illness, after twice escaping from the sea. "Were I to believe the statement of friends, I should regard myself as an invalid still. Not fancying the useless state of valetudinarianism, I think myself in good health." Mr. Howard laughed, and, observing a fine piano, liheasked Leda to play. She had seldom touched the instrument since Ralph's death, but how could she deny so slight a favor to one who had preserved her life? She acquiesced, and Mr. Howard opened theinstru- ment. Leda was an elegant performer, and her voice was fine. Every note of the music was associated with her lost friends. She sung a touching piece from Norma. As her voice swelled to its full volume, there was a tremu- lous pathos in its tones at once mournful and thrilling, which almost caused a tear to well up in Mr. Howard's eyqs. Soon after she rose from the piano, Mr. Howard left, and Leda re- sumed her occupations. They were less inter-     eating than usual to-day. Confused thoughts, more puzzling than the confusion of tongues, wrought suddenly upon the arrogant artisans at the building of the tower of Babel, held possession of her, mingling strangely the past with the present. Mr. Howard found Brunswick so interesting a place that his intended stay of a few hours was lengthened to several weeks. His business in Charleston was arranged by letter, and there was no longer any necessity calling him thither. :He took todgings in the same house with Miss Snubb, and she became his warm friend. He imparted to her the knowledge that he was an artist, and meant to arrange a studio, if she would get him the patronag e of her friends. This she promised to do. He procured a room antd the suitable furniture for his work, and be- gan his labors ag a poor painter. Mr. Snowden had a life-sized portrait taken of little Mittie from an ambrotype. It was. a beautiful specimen of art, and. a truthful like- ness. Leda got Miss Bab to have a painting made of Ralph from a daguerreotype, and when nearly finished, Mr. Howard told Miss Bab he must have some description and criticism from a friend intimately acquainted with the person, to perfect the portrait. "I will bring his wife," said Miss Snubb. l She canvbest tell the expression." And so she brought Leda. The artist was startled. Hitherto he had reflected on the sea- nymph with all the ardor of an artist viewing a a handsome painting. Her name struck his fancy. He had made no inquiries, but her ap- pearance was very youthful. Her beauty haunt- ed him, and her voice rung into his ear always. Her thought her a maiden, whose heart he might take captive; and now his romantic no- tions were put to flight by the knowledge that his nereid was a widow, and he was painting her lost husband. Horrible reality 1 There was something mysterious connected with many of Mr. Howard's actions. He paint- ed constantly all work given to him with a mas- terly skill; but he never sent in bills, even when- importuned to do so, always intending, but ever postponing a settlement. There was one easel, too, in his studio, which always remained jeal- ously shrouded from view. Miss Bab often begged to take a look, but Mr. Howard assured her that the result to her curiosity would be more startling than that produced by the opening of Pandora's box, and so she bided her time, determining to see the incognito at all risks. The artist finished Dr.   de 'Coy's portrait under Leda's directionr, per-, fectly to her notion, and sent it home. He dis- liked to look at it, and determined no longer to waste a thought on a woman absorbed' in griev- ing over buried hopes. The mind and its work- ings is quite as unruly and difficult to govern as the tongue, and Mr. Howard found his reso- lution hard-to keep. His art, heretofore, had been his absorbing passion. His had been ever a contemplative, reserved, 'sensitive nature, shuntning society almost entirely. He had viewed scores of beautiful European women with an eye single to their merits as models for painting. Their companionship had never caused a quickening pulsation of his heart, or sent an electric thrill through his frame. He was cold and indifferent alike to all. What was it which produced the charm he could not re- sist in this widow? She was irresistible in her pure, holy character to all. No wonder that the proud, elegant, gifted, Mr. Howard, could not put her image away from his reflections. Fre- quently he called with Miss Bab on Mrs. dle Coy; and each time her enlightened conver- sation and her unassuming dignity of demeanor produced greater fascination. All this time Leda could not but admit to herself that she thought more frequently of Mr. Howard's black eyes and jetty curls, and suavity of manner, thar was seemly. She was wanting in fealty to the dead,; why was it she permitted her thoughts to dwell on an obscure artist? She determined to ignore all cogitations over him. Then gratitude reproached her as an ingrate for forgetting, for a moment, him who had saved her life. One day Miss Bab went into Mr. Howard's studio, when he was absent for a few moments. Looking around furtively, and seeing nothing to intimidate her, she darted at the shrouded picture and raised the veil. There was a wild expanse of foaming water dashing in broken waves upon .a lonely beach; a capsized boat tossed on the breakers; while a man held a beautiful pale maiden lifeless, her garments and long dark hair dripping with brine as he drew her from the water. The face was unmistakable; the scene was familiar to her imagination. She let the curtain fall, and left, fearing Mr. How- ard might detect her knowledge of his treasure from her agitation. ' "And so he loves Leda!" exclaimed the old maid to herself. "It shall be a match. Although he is a poor painter, he can make a living by his art;" and Miss Bab went to see Mrs. .Flison, now a confirmed in- valid.   A fc, .J. Genius is generally found enshrined in indo- lent matures fond-of abstract:ion. Mr. Howard was a dreamer. He often called to mind a fa- vorite passage from the eloquent Buffon, as an excuse for giving rein to his imagination: t Invention depends on patience; contemplate your subject long; it will gradually unfold, till a sort of electric spark convulses the brain, and spreads down to the very heart a glow of irritation." And many of Mr. Howard's best conceptions in painting arose from this pro- cess, though oftentimes the fancy born in a mo- ment and traced rapidly on the canvas pos- sessed a life-like richness, full of attraction. He had not given up his boyish fondness for solitary ,walks, and almost daily took long strolls about Brunswick. He had never intend- ed to marry, thinking justly that the absorb- ing cares of a family would necessarily take much of his thought and time firom his work. His ambition was to go down to Posteri y as a distinguished painter. He had a prejudice against widows, especially, and since his dis- covery that Leda de Coy was of that despised a class, he had avoided her society. But her im- l age held possession of the citadel of his heart, 1 and reigned an autocrat there. ' Her beautiful 1 features, with their proud, noble expression, 1 haunted him. 'He painted an elegant ivory f miniature. I will write the "Little Widow " t under it. This epithet' will as effectually close s up every valve of the heart to shut up affection s and crush it, as the absence of a current of air 19 must extinguish fire. Vain deception! Love is of spontaneous growth, generating its own r life-supporting oxygen. It springs and flour- t ishes, defying the power of man to suppress it. re Some time had passed without his seeing Leda,  when sauntering in the cemetery one day, ne k met her with Edward, near their own inclosure. Despite all effort, his heart beat rapidly-exult- dE ingly, and he joined her. She looked more beau- ki tiful than ever' with her crepe veil, almost envel- ur oping her slender figure. There was some hand- p' some monuments, and Edward read many of the inscriptions as they walked slowly along, ar and some conversation passed on the ravages he of the recent epidemic. Mr. Howard said he had seen something of thekind, but had never had yellow fever, and he had lost no friends from it.       fr "I have experienced both,' said Leda. B "' We live sometimes through centuries in a few short weeks. I trust you never may be called de to live that long, unless under joyful circum- th stances.                 net   o- our life must have been a sad one. I rd wish you considered our acquaintance sufficient fa- to induce you to tell me your history." an  "I fear it would not interest you, Mr. Howard, n: and its detail would be tedious." te  "To listen to anything relating to Mrs. de ill Coy is a theme I could never weary of," said i, he, with a look of unqualified tenderness and of admiration. "I am of a sympathetic nature. st Tell me your life, and test whetherl feel deeply -) all that distresses you, and rejoice in all that )' gladdens you." i-  Mr. Hoivard's beautiful, pensive eyes, ex- i. 'pressed a melting tenderness as he looked on r the uncomplaining young girl, so early marked g with the withering hand of sorrow. -  At this undisguised admiration, a bluslh rose in Leda's white face, which heightened her e beauty and painfully confused her. She turned  the conversation, frori herself by asking how i Mr. Howard liked Brunswick, and if he in- tended to make it his permanent home. "I doubt my capacity for contentment in i one spot. I came here to remain a few days, but circumstances beyond my control chain me here still. I intend to go to the,far west ere long. Reading Irving's Astoria inspired me long since with a desire to participate in buf- falo-hunting, and I anticipate- real pleasure in transforming my wish into reality very soon. I shall regret to leave Brunswick. But who will shed a tear over my departure?" he said, laughingly. "I suppose I shall be called upon to do so," replied Leda, smiling, " inasmuch as I owe a twice insured life to you. There are very many recipes for promoting unwilling tears. I can - resort to them in case of failure in the real kind." "None but the genuine will answer, Mrs. de Coy," said Mr. Howard. "I would give a kingdom to see a pretty woman drop one nat- ural dew drop from beautiful eyes, over my de- parture!" Before parting with Mris. de Coy, Mr. How- ard told her he felt an irresistible desire to hear her sing again. "  Your song haunts me still, an'd I wish the phantom exorcised by a reality." "very well," said Leda; and she entered her dwelling, encountering Miss Bab. "Your friend, Mr. Howard, is going away soon, Miss Bab. Are you not sorry?" "  Yes, but not half so sorry as I know Mrs. de Coy will be. Have you no tears to weep at the prospect of your preserver going perma- nently?"     "No. What is he to me? I feel a great debt of gratitude, and regret to part: but I am not so unreasonable as to hope that he would always be near me." "Well, he thinks of having you always with him, if not in person, in semblance. What do you think I saw, Leda, in his studio? Your own sweet self, as you lay insensible in his arms on the sea beach, with the angry waves dash. ing around you I Is it not flattering to have fascinated so handsome and so talented a young man?" "I had not thought of it," said Leda. "Leda de Coy, answer me truly. Does not your heart leap wildly at the mention of Mr. Howard's name?" "I do not think it does." "Then it is a pity that you let so good an op- portunity escape." "I never have thought about a second mar- riage. I am prejudiced against them, and I could not select a traveling artist." "He is no traveling artist. Take my word for it, and make up your mind to marry. He is more than he seems, and a woman of twenty- two is too young to remain a widow." "It would be presumption in me to suppose I was an object of admiration, even to Mr. Howard. Dear Miss Bab, if you love me, cease talking in this strain.' "I know he does love you," said Miss Bab; "and you are a fortunate woman." And she bade Leda good night. Mr. Howard left Leda, with his prejudice against her sadly on the wane. Her blush un- der his vivid gaze was at once flattering and en- couraging. "I will ask my friend, Miss Bab, something more of my beautiful sea-nymph, who has cast a spell around me too potent to be easily broken!" Miss Bab most gladly told all the particulars of Leda's life, dwelling on the fact of her mar- rying Dr. de Coy more to please her parents than her own inclination. Mr. Howard's en- chantment became more firm from that time, and he ordered, weekly, rare boquets of ex- otics from Savannah, which graced Leda's toilet vases. The night of the last interview with Mr. Howard had been one of wretchedness to Leda. The pretentious film of indifference had been rent from her heart by Miss Bab s inquisitorial catechising; and to her intense mortification, she found the handsome face of the young painter enshrined there, holding regal sway. She despised her own weakness for allowing a   new love, Phoenix-like, to spring from the ashes of the old. She determined, if Miss Snubb's words were true, and the artist did love her, that she would trample alike upon her own feel- ings and his, and refuse him. She prayed for strength to keep this resolution. Ere long its tenacity was tested. Mr. Howard came, as he promised, one night after tea, bringing with him a beautiful boquet. Leda was agitated as she prepared to enter the parlor, fearing that her inner thoughts might become visible to Mr. Howard's searching eyes. Mr. Howard was affable, and unembarrassed; and she soon recovered her self-possession. They conversed on various topics. Mr. Howard asked Leda if she had made up her mind to tell him her history. / "I cannot," she answered, "It is too pain; ful a theme,'and its every day sorrows and dis- appointments would not interest a stranger." "But I do not feel as if I were a stranger, and I do not wish to be considered one by you, Place me in the category of your warm friends, and now redeem your promise and sing for me." He took her slightly tremulous hand, and led her to the piano. Was Leda mistaken in the feeling of a tender pressure of his hand, as those strong, manly fingers clasped hers? ,Her agitation returned, and her voice quiv- ered so much that she could scarcely finish the song. "Mrs. de Coy," said Mr. Howard, who stood beside her as she sung, and delightedly ob- served her want of composure. "I hold in my hand something of yours; no matter how it came into my possession. Will you give it to me without reservation? It is of no value to you, but would be to me. You have said you owed me something for the paltry favor of saving your life. May I have it?" he asked in a ten- der, winning tone, looking at her with his thrill- ing black eyes. "I will not abuse your con- fidence. It is nothing you may not grant. Answer in the affirmative, and I will show it t6 youl." "You can have it," said Leda, in a quiet tone. "It is a great mark of my confidence in you to acquiesce in a mysterious gift." Instantly he touched a spring, and a case opened, showing Leda her own pure face, set in gold, with the words in enameled letters, [  "The Little Widow," under the picture. A crimson blush flushed painfully Leda's ; face, which she hid in her hands. "Give me, too, the original, beloved X Leda!" exclaimed Mr. Howard, sinking on his   knee, beside her, and encircling her waist with his, arm. Did I not save you from the briny deep for myself. my own sea-nymph? Do not torture me longer by silence, but grant a re- ward for my devotion 1" A choking sob convulsed Leda's frame. At length she answered, slowly: "Take the pic- ture. It Is yours already. The original must remain as she is. Forget that you ever met so unfortunate a being." "I will take you where your life shall be one long scene of happiness. Do not refuse my love. Why give up to useless repinings? For- get the past in loving me!" i Again a sob choked Leda. "Ask no morel I can never be yours." "Leda," asked Mr. Howard, "is your re- fusal based upon dislike? If so, I will leave you at this moment. But if you feel a distaste to me, why those blushes? Why this painful agitation? Dearest, tell me you love me! Ldok at me, and let me read your love, and make me happy!" and again he pressed her to his heart. "I cannot answer your questions. They are cruel. Leave me in my wretchedness. I can- not marry you. Forget me!" IShe, bowed her head on the piano, and when again she lifted it, Mr. Howard was gone, -and the miniature too. In its place was one of himself. The inanimate representation be- fore her, so life-like, seemed to chide her as she looked at it. Leda closed the case and sought her chamber. CHAPTER XIL         t When Blanche Slugg returned to her hus- a band's home, on the day she disclosed her c marriage to her mother, she was in no very a agreeable frame of mind. Always disposed to p excuse her faults, she was compelled to admit f that her conduct had been reprehensible in I this instance. She had never for a moment sup- I{ posed her disobedience would affect her mother n so seriously and even yet she hoped forgive. f- ness would soon overtake her. Mrs. Slugg and Bessie did all they could to foster this hope in' i Blanche. They felt certain that Mrs. Ravenel m could have no genuine cause for objecting to her daughter's alliance with Tom. It was the ' mode of action, more than the act itself, which   hwas so offensive; and they little knew that it y were as easy to remove mountains as to uproot t prejudice in some -natures, and that pride of - birth is the most difficult of a'l pride to sub- due. During the early period of her marriage, t everything was done to coax Blanche into a ^ state of cheerfulness, and many adroit ma- noeuvres were resorted to by Mrs. Slugg and Bessie Talbot to wean her from any lingering regrets she might entertain at her estrangement  from her mother. Both iadies were devoted and deferential. Tom was loving, and Blanche appeared satisfied. But her contentment did not last long. Like Fulvia, in the Spectator, she was a " votary of the world." She did not believe that true happiness is of a " retired na- ture," but that it consisted in the fashionable enjoyments of the pomps and vanities of ex- istence. She could not always simulate what she did not feel, and she was often irritable and perverse. Blanche, accustomed to have every caprice gratified by doating grandma and parents, and having .never any occasion for self- denial, was the impersonation of selfishness and indolence. When time brought no mitigation of Mrs. Ravenel's anger, and showed a great diminu- tion of the wealth Mrs. Slugg hoped to acquire through Blanche, her failings became intolera- ble, and Bessie and her aunt took no pains to conceal their sentiments. Blanche was re- minded that city airs did not become a poor man's wife, and that it was quite time for her to learn to work. Tom was caressing and neg- lectful by turns. A great Roman poet has aptly said: *"'In love these things are in- herent; war one while, then peace again i" but every dispute between this couple widened the first breach, and in a year or two Tom grew tired of his selection. He sought companions of his own age, keeping away from home as much as was possible. cursing his folly that his choice of a wife had not fallen upon one nearer his own age. Forsaken by her husband, despised and persecuted by Mrs. Slugg and Bessie, estranged from her mother, with nothing to fall back on; Blanche led a wretched life; and when too late, she deplored her disobedience to her mother, and the' folly of contracting a marriage far beneath her station. As time sped on, Tom Slugg developed phys- ically into a fine specimen of manhood. His mental capacities were ordinary, and Blanche's * "In amore harc sunt mala: bellum Pax rursum." [Q. Hor. Flac. Sat. L. 11. Sat. IlI 267.     mind was of too light an order to improve them. Her refinement had polished off some of the roughness engendered by a course education and surroundings. Unfortunately, Blanche was not of that mould of lofty character, calculated to elevate those who came within the sphere of her influence. Her beauty, her social station, and greater than all, her reputed fortune, had been the loadstone of attraction to Bessie Talbot, Mrs. Slugg and Tom. Her imaginary wealth shrunk into too small a reality to ap- pease the cupidity of this trio. Cast off by her justly incensed mother, her position sunk to their level; but when persecution and vain regrets had withered her much prized beauty, Blanche found herself an unloved wife, old in sorrows, older in feelings, and no longer youth ful in her personal appearance. Tom became a great gallant among the ladies of his own age, and oftentim es came home excited with wine. Blanche's small income was generally spent by him in the pursuit of pleasure. When she ventured to remonstrate, she received noth- ing but reproaches. Mrs. Slugg and Bessie, who could see no fault in thie only male scion of their race, always espoused his cause, telling Blanche she could not expect her husband to work when she, being older, set such a constant example of indolenceliefore him. Poor Blanche I her degradation was complete. Day by day she lost self-respect, and her once light, joyous spirit, became utterly broken. Many times she was tempted to go to her mother and implore forgiveness, but the idea of making public matrimonial broils was per- fectly repugnant; and she feared, too, that her mother might spurn her importunities to be re- ceived again as a daughter. What a comment on ill-assorted marriages could be drawn from a parallel between the po- sitions of Blanche Slugg and her brother Paul I The latter, grand, elevated, possessing all those virtues capable of making him admired and beloved, received in the most elegant circles of European society, was a magnificent specimen of man, guided by principle, adorned by genius, and happy from doing right. Cicero justly remarked, Nil est tam populare quam bonitas; and Paul Ravenel was beloved wherever he went. Blanche, born of a proud lineage, beautiful in person, of good intellectual qualifications, cultivated highly by educational advantages, refined by gentle training, with everything to promote happiness, yet, by one fatal step, de- based in her own estimatioi, contemptible in   that of others, was uncared for and miserable. No wonder the wise and witty Sydny Smith was led to say: "An office for marriage would be a very good thing. Young people are so ab- surd, and accept or refuse for such foolish reasons." "Blanche, said Tom, coming home one day much more excited by liquor than was custom- ary, "I have a debt which has been harrassing me for some time. To-day I received a most urgent dun, and I must have funds to liquidate it. Let me have a hundred dollars." "; I have not the tenth part of that sum, Tom." "Then you must get it, for the debt can be fought off no longer," said he, with a course jest at her inexhaustible wealth. "I have no means of procuring money; and I think it unkind in you, Tom, to demand it of mne." "You can get. Write to your mother toad- vance it to you. Her dower partly comes to you at her death. Why not oblige the husband you love so dearly, and ask a remittance?" "I cannot. It would be indelicate, situated as I am, to apply to mother. You must get the money from some other source." Her refusal made her husband angry, and he declared in furious tones that she should apply to Mrs. Ravenel " else my mother's house will be sold over her head for my debts." "And why should it not be sold? WIave you not more claim upon her than;I have upon mine, discarded as I am by an injured mother? I am not bound by any claims, moral, or legal, Tom, to furnish you money, and especially when it is to be used to pay for your dissipa- tion. I declare to you, now, that I shall not ask my mother for money; and in future I shall not furnish my income to aid you in a downward course to ruin." "Do you dare to threaten me, Blanche? Your income the law gives me control of, and I shall use it as I see fit. A wife should obey and re- spect her husband." "Yes, when he acts in a way to command and inspire such feelings; not before." "HaI ha! Blanche turning moralist! I might have read the riddle long since. An undutiful daughter makes ever a recreant wife. "And you, sir," said Blanche, drawing her person up to its full height, "should be the lhst to remind me of such a fact. But I shall prove my repentance of my folly, though late, by seeking a reconciliation with my mother.   This life is killing me. I cannot endure it and live much longer." "Blanche," said Tom, whg had no idea of giving his wife any such powerful lever against his ill-treatment as an amicable understanding with her mother, "I am determined if ever you ask your mother's forgiveness, it shall be at the expense of losing me. You cannot be her daughter and my wife. You can reflect about it and select between us; but mark nmy words, 'that arrogant woman will never receive you again, no matter how abjectly you sue.' He slammed the door as he left theyroom, and Blanche threw herself on a lounge, in a helpless , state of anguish, too deep for tears. His bit. ter words impressed her with the fearful force of truth .. Leda de Coy's refusal of Mr. Howard had given a wound to his self love, which rankled deeply in his proud, sensitive nature. He, the gifted, high-born, wealthy, much-sought, to be 1 rejected, and by an American I/ .He cursed the  folly which led him to a declaration, and came too late to the conclusion uttered by Napoleon:  "No one can surrender himself to the passion t of love without fortfeiting some palms of  glory." nIt is better thus. I will forget the d little widow, and retrace my steps to the path y of ambition I had mapped out for myself; and if I cannot, as the same great Emperor said of  Galileo, 'leave the memory of beautiful dis- t coveries,' I will at least form imitations of beau a- tiful realities to make my name famous." f "Mr. Howard left Mrs. de Coy's mansion, o and sought Miss Bab Snubb. He told her that m he had been called suddenly away, and must beg  of her to have several portraits in his posses- s sion returned to the proper owners. "I have one favor to ask of you, Miss cl Snubb, and it must remain an inviolable secret st until you meet me again, or I write you per- 0] mission to disclose it. Will you promise to aid me and remain reticent?"  "Yes, I will serve you; but Mr. Howard are th you not coming back soon? We cannot give  i you 'up." ' "I shall return some day, probably. I can pa set no time-now. You remember the curtained wa picture in my room"?" "Yes," replied Miss Snubb.  t When I leave, take it, keep it, and watch sai your opportunity and have it conveyed to Mrs. wa de Coy's room at some time when she knows to nothing of it. Can you do this?"     a "I thinkI can," said Miss Bab. "At any an rates, I will undertake it."  9                 er   nd  "If Mrs. de Coy questions you how the pic- ture found its way to her chamber, can you baffle of successfully all her inquiries?" asked Mr. st Howard. "I hope so. I shall endeavor to be very er ignorant if I am questioned. But Leda is too )e reserved to be inquisitive where her feelings are )e enlisted."            ct  "What do you know of her feelings? She y is too near adamant to have any. It is said e man is a sentient bDeing. It would be a satire upon your sex to include them in such a cata- d logue." "s   I know nothing of Leda's sentiments ex- - cept from observation. There are some things e so plain one can see them with their eyes shut. We know that the sun shines, and that the d warmth of his rayp promotes growth in the I vegetable kingdom, when we behold him not." "Certainly," said Mr. Howard, in an irritated e tone, "I never could endure riddles. Speak - plainly." "i There are other suns besides that suspend- ed in the heavens. What is more natural than to suppose the sunshine of a handsome young ' man's admiration should warm into growth the dormant affections in the heart of a beautiful young woman." "I see nothing natural in the supposition. But, Miss Snubb, I have no time for discussing things which do not exist. My time is short, and I have much to do. If younwfll execute my fancy about the picture, I will be under much obligation to you; and at some future day will most gladly reciprocate favors. Good night! My waiting-man will hand you the key of my studio." Mr. Howard sought his room, arranged his clothing, and left that night on a Charleston steamer. He took shipping thence for New Orleans. Leda de Coy had gained a great victory over herself by her refusal of Mr. Howard, but at the expense of happiness. Her affection for him, always combatted, and never admitted, had been the first full awaking to the grand passion she had ever experienced. Dr. de Coy's was a noble character, capable of inspiring love, and his wife had felt for him a strong re- gard, but not all that she could feel. As before' said, she was his inferior mentally, and hers was a nature needing a superior in all things to enlist her every thought. There was an affinity in all the sentiments of Mr. Howard and herself. He was of a proud, sensitive, re- served order, and these three attributes are     ever powerful to win a woman's love. He had f genius, he was handsome, and he had saved w her life. All these were in his favor. and she fi could not help being surprised into love. But fidelity to the dead demanded she should cast this idol from her, and she' had done it, and a would adhere to her resolve not to marry M again. The miniature of Mr. Howard was very is life-like. She gazed long at it, aid an agony took possession of her when she felt that he I might have been hers.           n 4 I cannot retain this picture, It will destroy a my peace of mind 1"            t Resolutely she closed the case, and deter- mined to send it to the original the next day. n Morning came, but Mr. Howard had gone, no one knew whither. Leda was forced to retain e what she would not look at, awaiting an oppor-  tunity to return it to its proper owner. In the spring Mrs. Elson's health, never I very strong, grew more feeble. So often was E she confined to her room that her daughter and her friends entertained many fears for her. This new source of disquiet distracted Leda's thoughts from herself. There were moments of what she considered weakness when she yearned with a torturing desire to see Mr. Howard once more; and then came the tempt- ation to look at the miniature in her keeping. But, as yet, she had not yielded, and the con- stant tension upon her shattered nerves became visible in the more etherial appearance of her face. In Tom Slugg's pursuit after pleasure for employment he had accidentally become ac- quainted with a country family. One of the daughters interested him very much. She was pretty in the exuberance of fresh womanhood, artless, confiding and facile. It was not very {long before the vacillating heart of Tom fell ,captive to graceful Antionette Demming, and the woed and won her consent to their union. She knew nothing of the claims of an elder Apouse at home, and joyed in the knowledge ;that a country girl, like herself, could fascinate , so fine a gentleman as he appeared to her. Mr. Slugg felt on a very insecure footing. As Lamartine said of Napoleon, whom he saw reviewing his troops on the Place de Carrousal on his return from Elba, "It was apparent the ground was not solid under his feet." He therefore matured his plans with rapidity and precision, which he hoped to perfect before Antionette heard any rumors of his connubial obligations at home. Telling her he had wealthy relatives in Kentucky who held out inducements   for his removal thither, he proposed that she would join him, and when out of reach of friends, their marriage could be solemnized by the proper authorities. "Why not marry me here before we go?" asked the unsuspecting Antionette. "I always wished a wedding supper, and mamma prom- ised-me one." "If you love me, Antionette, you will do as I say. My mother would never hear of my marrying a country girl like you. She is old, and her senses are all blunted. She wishes me to marry for money." "I do not like to go in a family where I am not wanted." "Pshaw  Be a sensible girl," said Tom, caressing her. "After you are my wife, she will be proud of her pretty daughter. In two days I will have everything ready. Meet me a mile hence, and we will take the steamer, and soon be out of reach. I shall be at the forks of the road, at sunrise, on Thursday." Antionette was 'easily duped, and promised that every command should be obeyed. Flat- tering herself that she would bring honor on her family by so brilliant a match, she hoped, on her return, to appease any anger which might arise from her flight. After these arrangements were complete, the next question was to procure money. An ex- pedient was not slow in presenting itself to Tom Slugg's fertile invention. "I will make Blanche get it. She owes me something for r rescuing her from the fate of an old maid." This coarse soliloquy called forth a loud laugh as-he spurred his horse up to a quicker trot. s  Arriving at horne about midnight, Tom , stabled his steed, and sought his wife's cham- Y ber. She was asleep. Her small hand, un- 1 used to any hard labor, lay carelessly upon the d coverlet, while one arm was thrown above her  head. A care worn expression rested upon the r handsome face, somewhat faded from disap- e pointed hopes and the rude blasts of an un- e congenial, social atmosphere. As Tom Slugg gazed upon the ruin of his unkindness had be- ;. gan, and his villainy was about to perfect, some- v thing like a faint regret seized upon him. He il was almost tempted to forego his design and e return from the devious road of vice into the e narrow path of rectitude. He lifted his hand d to smooth the loose curls of his wife which re hung in graceful abandon about thy pillow. The al. chiding face, fresh and rubicund, of Antionette iy rose before him, with her yielding, love and ts steeled his repentant heart. The caress from   his outstretched hand changed into a rude shake. "Blanche, have you no welcome for me when I come home tired?" "Do you deserve any, Tom? I sat up long, hoping you would come; but you are so often absent," she said with a sigh, "I never know when to expect you." "I have no time for chidings. God knows I have listened to enough from you. These everlasting curtain lectures would drive any man mad." "If you acted as you ought, Tom, there ould be no room for complaint from me. I am always rehdy to do everything I can Tor you. My marrying you, as I did, was a con- clusive evidence of my love." "I rejoice to meet you in such a frame. I will test your obedience and your love at once," he said, taking a paper from his breast pocket. "You have often twitted me with your family's unwillingness to see you form an alliance with one they choose to consider beneath them. I mean to show them that in pride I am at least their equal. Your claim upon the Ravenel estate is trifling. I can support you without it. Here is is an agreement which I desire you to sign, re- nouncing all interest in the property." "Why should I do this?" demanded Blanche. "There seems to be no common sense, no reason in such a proceeding. My income is small, but it is enough for me. Let me see the paper." "That implies a doubt that of my integrity. The paper is what I represent it to be. I intend to try your faith in your husband." "  My faith needs no trial except what it has i already endured, Tom. Show me the paper." f "I will not. Your request shows that you i want faith in my veracity.' Sign it at once, and - your condition will be greatly improved. I as- sure you this upon oath if you wish."  1 "  I need no oaths. Heaven knows I havetoo E many-more than I need or like. Your desire E is only for the gratification of a mere caprice which you will regret sooner than I will. I s cannot put my name to any paper unless I read tl it."  There was something in this strange proceed- s ing which aroused, even in Blanche's unsus- o picious nature, the idea that there were ulterior st reasons for such action, at once singular and al ridiculous, if not still worse.     R "Blanche," said Tom, walking up to her, "I camne here with the intention of having obe- la dience from you. Sign this paper quietly." ," I cannot."               h   le  "Then, by Heaven, you shall!" he exclaim- )r ed in an angry tone, grasping her hand and pulling her rudely out of bed. a,  Keeping Ofrm hold on her, he drew a pistol n from his pocket, and placed it on the table near w by. Seizing a pen, he thrust it into the wife's hand, and holding it with a vice-like grip, (for s he was a powerful man in physical, strength,) e he forced her to an unwilling signature to the y paper, the writing of which was carefully folded down so as to be shielded from view. e  Throwing her hand violently from him, he I laughed derisively. "A bird which can sing r and won't must be made to sing," he 'ex- claimed. Blanche's fingers ached from the rough grasp, I more violent than that by which (it is said) the Lord of Lindesay employed to induce Queen Mary Stuart to sign away her crown. "For shames Tom Slugg I that any one bear- ing the name of man could be so brutal. The paper shall do you no good, for I will declare it a forgery, and no one will recognize my signa- ture in that illegible scratch." "I care not. It will serve my purpose and gratify my pride. To bed, my little bird. Night vigils may injure your health," he said sneer- ingly. And, whistling, Tom left the room. Bianch's cup of humiliation was full. She re- turned to her couch, and burying her head in her pillow, he gave way to uncontrolled grief. The chastening was severe, but she felt its jus- tice'in those long, lonely hours of the waning night. Leaving Blanche's room, Tom threw him- self on the parlor sofa, and fell into an uneasy slumber. He feared his paper might be wrested from his possession if he remained with his in- censed wife. Early in the morning he arose, saddled his his horse, and telling his mother that he would be absent some hours, he proceeded to Mrs. Ravenel's dwelling. He had never been in the lady's presence since his marriage, and felt naturally some lit- tle embarrassment at the coming interview. Stopping his horse at a noisy streamlet which sung its babbling music by the wayside, he took out his flask, and drank half the contents. This stimulus nerved him with becoming resolutions, and he walked boldly in, on his arrival at Mrs. Ravenel's house. "Good morning, madam," said he to the lady, whom he met in the entry way. With a lofty wave of the hand, Mrs. Ravenel showed her son-in-law into her parlor. Mo-     tioning him to a seat, she said slowly, distinct- ly, ' To what am I indebted for this intrusion, sir?" Mr. Slugg was embarrassed in spite of his intentions and his potation. Awkwardly he -thrust the following paper into her hand, and sat tapping his boot with his' riding whip as she read; "Mrs. Ravenel ;-I need five hundred dol- lars, and must have it, or be ruined. You must send it to me at once, if you would save me. If you leave me to be lost, you will be filled with remorse. Send it, and for it I relinquish all further interest in the Ravenel estate.. Once your daughter, B BLANCHE SLUGG." - And has she who was once my daughter sunk so low?" she uttered sadly, as if talking in a dream.. :Rousing herself, and looking straight into Tom's face, she said, "Young man, you can have this money but upon condition. Write and sign a paper to me, declaring that never will other applications for any funds be sent or presented to me. This does not look like Blanche Ravenel's signature." "Give me the paper, and I will do it. Blanche is ill, and her hand is tremulous. Besides, it goes hard to beg money of those who ought to furnish it-" ' Your effrontery is great. In marrying you Miss Ravenel relinquished all claims upon' her family.' She left the room, and returning soon, brought writing materials, which she placed upon a table near Mr. Slpgg. At her dictation, he wrote, a promise that neither Blanche nor himself should ever apply again for remittances from her or the Ravenel estate. This being signed, Mrs. Ravenel wrote a check on a bank in Savannah, for $500, to be paid to Blanche or her order, and handed it to Tom." ' You had as well make it payable to me, for I am going to Savannah on other business, and must draw the money." "Blanche can endorse it if she desires it paid. Good morning, sir," and she left the room.            / Tom rose also, sought his horse and left. He was out-generaled, and how to obviate the dif- ficulty he did not know. After some cogitation, "Ah I I have it; no one knows Blanche in Sa- ,vannah, . Antio nette can collect this money by signing her name on the check for me." Mrs. Ravenel felt indignant at Mr. Slugg's thrusting himself into her presence. Her vex- iation was mingled with contempt. Was Blanche indeed ,so changed by her contact with the   muddy stream of low company as to be devoid of all delicacy and self-respect? The more she reflected, the more she was convinced that something was wrong. But it was little to her. She had discarded her daughter ever since her marriage, and she suffered no one to mention her or Mr. Slugg in her hearing. Had she not wrapped herself in this impenetrable reserve she might have heard long since that Blanche was reaping the reward of all undutiful chil- dren, and that Tom Slugg was a worthless, dis- sipated, unprincipled knave. Mr. Howard reached the Crescent City after a delightful sea-voyage. His determination to forget the little widow was much easier to make than to keep. She would intrude upon his thoughts at all times, and his temporary "' home on the rolling deep " recalled most forcibly his first introduction to this siren. He continued his voyage to Galveston, and thence to Port Lavaca, in the State of Texas. Joining a party of hunters, he proceeded to the Old Spanish City of San Antonio de Bexar. Here they re- mained a few days to complete their outfit for the wild prairies of North Western Texas. In the solidity of the time-defying structures of this far-western little city, Mr. Howard was surprised to be strongly reminded of European architecture. The ruins of the massive stone fortresses, each including a church in the by- gone ages, and constituting the early mission- ary establishments of this historic region, im- pressed his imagination powerfully, by their close resemblance to the feudal castles of the Old World. They seemed far better adapted to the uses of the warring sons of men who de- light in destroying each other, than to those- champions of the peaceful kingdom of Christ who wage only a spiritual warfare against the Prince of Evil and the champions of eternal perdition. The five stone bridges spanning with masses of masonry the two streams on which San An- tonio is situated, carried him in fancy back to the palmy days of Old Spain, when that power was the possessor of the richest and most ex- tensive colonial possessions of all the Empires of the Globe. In that monarchy's example of melancholy decay there was something that , touched soothingly, yet mournfully, his own desolate spirit. For it is one of the peculiari- ties of that desolation of soul which a disap- 3 pointment in the master passion imposes, that - it finds in everything throughout the universe ) something to feed on by similitude, by analogy,- ) or by contrast.   The history of the city, too, interested him. Its true growth began about the time that the amiable philanthropist, Oglethorpe, in ernula- tion of William Penn, founded with a popula- tion largely composed of unfortunate debtors, the prosperous "Empire State of the South," wherein dwelt our tourist's lady-love; and it had been vouchsafed a history far more roman- tic than that State. .Its territory had been successively the property of four different na- tionalities-Spain, France, the Independent Republic of Texas, and lastly of the United States. As he strolled through the streets, he heard alternately among its inhabitants the Spanish, German, French and Italian lan- guages, and also the English distinguished by the variations of pronunciation of the South- erner, the Yankee, the Englishman, and the "rich Irish brogue," as a candidate for the Pres- idency of the United States once styled it with the view of enlisting the support of the gallant sons of the Emerald Isle. It was on this lo- cality that the attempted revolution of 1812 fell with heavy force; here the adventurous Milam triumphed in 1835, and opened the way to Texan Independence; and here the gallant Travis and his heroic band sacrificed their lives on the altar of freedom. Here, at the massa- cre of the Alamo, the eccentric Tennessee Con- gressman, David Crockett, fell, after giving to the great American nation the expression which is the key-note to their character, "Go ahead." At length they set out for the prairie lands. s This almost boundless region, the ocean-waving  ] prairiewith its dwarfish mesquite shrubs, was t a strange and new sight to Mr. Howard. There X was something exhilarating in riding through l the rich mesquite grass and gathering sponta- t neous ground fruits and vegetables. It was T exciting to be tantalized by the sight of the dis-  tant herds of buffaloes, deer and mustangs, f bounding with life and spirit away over the, s hills. Our adventurers traveled many days b across these utndulatinggrassy oceans. Some- a times they were upon the war grounds of hos- d tile tribes of Indians, who tested their respec- c tive skill in the use of the rifle and tomahawk o on this field of mutual rencounter. All firing Il of guns was then forbidden, as great vigilance se was necessary to guard against surprise. As ri night, with her dusky but star splangled robes, an enveloped them, the luxurious pipe regaled and p lulled their senses as they reposed their weary cl limbs, stretched by the cheerful camp-fires. " Then the guides would while away time by re us    counting those trappers' legends which, among e these daring hunt'ers, rival the yarns told by - the ocean-tossed tars when they return from - their sea-voyages. This wild life Mr. Howard , enjoyed with all that keen relish which accom- ' panies youth only. His life had been as yet tlike a long bright summer's day, with but lately - one little cloud mounting to its zenith and ob- ' scuring its splendor. As he reclined languidly - in his hunter's dress, around the camp-fires, twith the stars of night the canopy, and the damp I earth the couch, listening to the weather-beaten ; hunters relate their exploits anid escapes among the Indians, could he forget the cloud? No. Its shadow often swept over him; and the last words of Leda rung in his ears. "I cannot answer your questions. They are cruel. Leave me in my wretchedness." Did they make him ,miserable? No. They produced a pleasing melancholy. Self-love whispered again and again, "She loves you. Seek her and she will be yours." And he pressed her miniature, now worn near his heart, fondly, and a sweet smile, gentle as a maiden's, gathered around his mous- tached lips. Thus they crossed barren wastes, flower-spangled prairies, and rocky ridges, for weeks, through remains of Indian stockades, scattered among the thickets, and reached the hunting grounds Several buffaloes were killed, and portions taken to enrich the camp tables. Early one morning a large herd of buffaloes was visible. One of'the most expert guides was soon in the saddle, and concealing himself behind some hills, he reached the summit of one, unseen by the wary animals. The sharp sound of the rifle soon told that the work of devastation was begun. Keeping carefully behind the rocks, the hunter brought down several monsters. Then showing himself, the fleet band "tum- bled ahead" (as the hunters expressed it,) as fast as they could. The party all rode to the scene .to witness the process of cutting up a buffalo. The skinning operation begins with an incision along the centre of the back-bone, downwards, to get more expeditiously at the choice pieces of flesh. The hump on the back of the neck called the"' bass," is the most se- lect. It is the size of a human head, and re- sembles marrow. The "hump," the, hump- ribs," the fleece and thetongue, were taken, and the rest left to feast the voracious birds of prey. The cows are the most delicate, and are cut up after the foregoing method, called "mountain fashion." The bulls are seldom used for food, and yet but few mountaineers     can resist the temptation of bringing one to the ground when a fair shot, offers. Weeks passed away in the enjoyment of hunters' life before the party began to retrace their steps towards home. ' On returning to San Antonio, Mr. Howard intended to'go southward to Mexico; but let- ters,. awaited 'him which changed his plans. When he reached New Orleans he went-up the Mississippi to the lakes; thence to Canada and the New England States. He passed some time in New York, the Great City of the Republic. During the summer, Mrs. Elson's ill health developed into a confirmed consumption. This disease was hereditary in her family, and was one of which she always had felt a peculiar horror. Perhaps there was something in her fears which propelled the malady to a more speedy culmination. She. declined by slow but sure degrees to the fatal ending, and was now confined to her room all the while. Anxiety for her mother, and the constant torture of a suppressed love, made fearful inroads' upon Leda de 'Coy's health. Most of her time was devoted to cheering and soothing her mother. Her step lost its elasticity; her voice never rung out in joyous laughter. The beautiful face wore a constant expression of sadness. Edward, now a large boy, was consigned to Mr. Snow- den's care, to prepare him for college. There was one recreation Leda had, and this was in- structing Ellen Snowden in music. She was a joyous, winning child, and her affection for Leda was gratifying, and diverted the current of mel- ancholy musing her thoughts inclined to, con- stantly. Miss Bab, still sharp in her temper,' and brusque in her ways, was a friend, unde. viating in her attentions. Mrs. Elson and Leda seemed all that were left her to love, and she did everything in her power to bring sunshine into Mrs. Elson's sick chamber. Towards the close of the summer, the young people projected a picnic to St. Simon's Island. Mrs. Elson and Miss Babb were determined that Leda should go. Leda protested that she would not enjoy herself, and greatly preferred the quiet of home. "You must go, Leda," said Miss Bab. , I intend to stay with your mother; and Mr. and Mrs. Snowden are of the party. They will take no refusal." Leda was about to insist on remaining where she was, but her mother urged her acceptance of the invitation. "Go withl Mrs. Snowden, my child. It will oblige me, and your, account of your enjoyment   will amuse me. I wish I felt strong enough to go, too." "I wish you could go I exclaimed Leda in a low tremulous voice, as she stood beside her mother's bed and stroked the glossy hair on the brow of the emaciated invalid. Her heart was full as she thought how very soon the be- loved form would pass away. Stooping down, she said softly, "I will go, mother, if it will oblige you,' and left the room. The picnic was arranged for the following Thursday. On Wednesday afternoon Leda had gone out on some business,'and returned late. Going to her room to lay aside her shawl, she was almost startled into a scream as she turned with a candle and beheld-what? A beautiful painting hung in a conspicuous part of the room. It was unmistakably the veiled picture Miss Bab had described. The scene was vivid, the features of the lost Mr. Howard exact, the semblance of herself dripping with water fault- less. A wild tumult of emotion took posses- sion of her. How came that picture in her room? Had he returned? Her heart beat quickly at the thought, and a crimson flush swept over her face, leaving it of an almost death-like hue. She steadied herself by hold- ing to a table, and struggled against a host of mysterious hopes and imaginings for com- posure. After some moments she took the light and went up to the painting. Underneath was written The Nereid. As she viewed the boiling breakers dashing their white foam caps wantonly against the outstretched beach, and thought of the past peril she had so singularly escaped, and looked on the imitation of the glorious being who had rescued her and loved her, and felt that duty impelled her to refuse that love; and the void unfilled left in her heart; she cried out in her agony, "' Oh God I would that in mercy I had slept in a briny se- pulchre, those everlasting waves ever moaning above me, over my early doom I Better to perish in the morning of existence than to live in a wretched life, and at last go to the tomb, ' Unwept, unhonored and unsung!'" Turning away and bathing her face, she left her chamber, determining on her return from St. Simon's, to have this new cause of agita- tion removed from her view. By some means Miss Snubb had never executed Mr. Howard's request until the present, Perhaps she felt that its effect upon Leda would be more pow- erful after the lapse of time. This old maid had never lost hope that Mr. Howard would re- turn, and she determined, if he did, he should   not escape without being caught in the net. Leda must marry him. "Poor thing I she will be desolate when her mother is gone; and H oh, I shall be lost!" and freely the tears trickled down Miss Bab's faded face. Thursday came balmy and bright, and the maroon party were up and ready for starting by sunrise. Leda felt but illy composed as she rose from her couch and prepared to go to Frederica. The sight by day of the picture again unnerved her. She hastened her toilet, and went into her mother's room. Miss Bab had passed the night with Mrs. Elson, who as- sured Leda that she felt very well, and intended to sit up all day. "Forget me, dear Leda, for one day, and be joyous and happy. Miss Bab will take excel- lent care of me." Leda kissed her mother, and promised to be as cheerful as she could. Edward was waiting, and joining him, they went to Mr. Snowdenri's Two large boats were in waiting, and the par- ties had a delightful row to Frederica. This novelty, an American town in ruins, was found- ed in 1739, by Gen. Oglethorpe, and was named for Frederick Prince of Wales, only son of George the second. It was beautifully and reg- ularly laid out, with wide, streets, and adorned with rows of orange trees. Oglethorpe made it his residence, and figured extensively in its history. The town retains very little of its former beauty. Everything is in decay. The remains of an old fort, and a few plain dwell- ings, being all that are left as memontoes of Gern. Oglethorpe's enterprise and philanthropy. The ruins of Old Fort Frederica Are a monu- s ment to the memory of a brave man who-per- ished therein as a prisoner-not of war, for Y peace existed between Britain and France, but x as a victim of arbitrary power and cruel preju-  dice. In 1786 there appeared among the f Cherokee Indians at their capital, Tellico, sit- V uated in the midst of a fertile plain, surround- I ed by the mountains of East Tennessee, a w French Jesuit, named Priber. Learned, brave, ingenious and enterprising, he was sent as the y agent of the French Government to aid in n building up French influence, political and commercial, among the aboriginal tribes of that s region now known as the Great West. He I adopted the costume of the Cherokees, mar- u ried .among them, and acquired unbounded in- te fluence over them. The jealous English sent tl from Charleston an embassy to the Cherokees, 6 ,demanding the surrender of Priber. The " red, Emperor "-so Adair, the quaint old writer and   Et. Indian "trader" of that day, styles him-re- ill fused the demand in lofty phraseology that - would have done honor to European diplomacy. d But after a residence of several years in the Cherokee Nation, Priber had occasion to visit e Mobile. Passing through 'the Creek Nation, g he was seized by some of the agents of Gen. e Oglethorpe, and brought through to Frederica, o where, in the old fort, he was detained for life e a prisoner. There he died, leaving behind him :, many valuable manuscripts touching the In- b dian affairs of that day, and a complete Dic- tionary of the -Cherokee language. By the I most culpable neglect, even these curious con- tributions to human knowledge were allowed e to perish. The accounts of that day show that - he bore his long and unjust imprisonment with- out a murmur, and died bravely. As Leda gazed on this old ruin, and sat beside its crumbling walls, the image of this adventurer, and his romantic history, came vividly before her imagination. The tide of human affairs in a century has swept away alike the founder of Frederica and the Fortress, and the victim of unjust imprisonment within its dungeon. "Another century will sweep away myself," she murmured, "and all I love." Of what con- sequence will it then be whether we live a few more or less years, or whether we love, or are beloved, or not?" The picnic was unusually pleasant. Those who felt inclined, danced. Others fished and sailed on the river, while the more grave stroll- ed about and enjoyed the interchange of ideas. Leda, with Ellen Snowden, and several others, started on a walk near the ruins of the old fort. A grim wall of tabby-work, which alone has withstood the crushing hand of time, is all that remains. After some time Leda and Ellen got separated from their companions, and feeling fatigued, Leda sat down. She had not rested very long when Ellen exclaimed, "Look, Miss Leda, there are some pretty flowers yonder I I wish I had them." "I will get some for you, directly, Ellen, if you will be patient enough to let me recover my breath." "I can wait," said the child, "but I see some I can reach," and she started forward. Leda rose and followed Ellen, who ran ahead until she came to a deep ditch, filled with wa- ter. The ground was damp and low, and over the ditch were some beautiful specimens of the Gerardia puparea. "I wish I could get them," said Ellen, "' they are so pretty and bright."     Willing to gratify the child, Leda proposed they should look for some pieces of wood or board. The ditch was not very wide, and if she could step on the crossing she could reach the coveted flowers. Ellen began the search, and soon found an old piece of rail, which Leda assisted her to carry to the spot near the Gerardias. The im- promptu pontoon was soon thrown across, and Leda stood steadying her insecure footing by holding to a projecting bush. Reaching across, she got a few flowers and handed them to the waiting Ellen. "OhI Miss Leda, do gather me that pretty bunch over there," said the eager child. "They are finer than any." Leda leaned forward, and found she could not get the de- sired bunch without getting over the ditch. Looking up, she was about seeking another mode of accomplishing her wish, when she be- held a gentleman before her. With an excla- mation of surprise and pleasure her foot slipped into the water, and she would have fallen had she not been rescued by the strong arm of Mr. Howard. A deep carnation glow tinged her face. "You are venturesome, Mrs. de Coy," said Mr. Howard. "I am glad to meet you. It is a most unexpected happiness." "I was as much startled," said Leda, laugh- ing, " as if I had seen a ghost. How did you get here?" "' I was returning from my rambles in the Western wilds, and a whim seized me to stop here and look at this old town. I came on a steamer. By what good fortune did I meet you?" "There was a picnic here, and most unwill. ingly I left mother to come. She thought I needed some recreation from a sick-room." "Is your mother ill?" asked Mr. Howard. - Yes. I fear her recovery is impossible. She has been confined to her room for two months." "And you," said Mr. Howard, $' are changed since last we met. Shall we walk and look at the remains of the fort?" Calling Ellen Snowden, Leda assented, and they started for a walk among the ruins, and down a pretty road leading to the church. Just then, Ellen Snowden, spying some of her companions, ran to join them, telling Leda she would come back very soon. "Let us sit on the church steps and wait for your charge, Mrs. de Coy, and you can tell me what occupied your time and your thoughts during the months of my absence." "My time has been taken up, I suppose, in those occupations followed by all ladies, until   the past two months, when I have been watch- ing an invalid mother." "And your thoughts?" i"What woman ever kept any account-of 'her reflections? They are never profound enough to be' worthy of note." I "It is not wisdom that I would care about, but the affectionate remembrance of friends I would prize," said Mr. Howard. "Tell me, in the long months, since I left you, have you bestowed no thoughts on the wandering artist?" "Of course," said Leda, "I sometimes have thought of you. I consider gratitude one of the cardinal virtues.. I should be a base ingrate to forget my preserver." Looking up, she en- countered Mr. Howard's eyes riveted upon her, and her eyes fell before their admiring gaze, She felt and looked embarrassed. Happily, Ellen Snowden came in view and relieved her. "Miss Leda, mamma says dinner is waiting, and I am very hungry.;' Taking Leda's hand, she said, "I told mamma you had found Mr. Howard, and she hopes you will take him with us to dine." "You will accept Mrs. Snowden's ihvitation, Mr. Howard? After dinner we are to ride to the beech to meet the boats which were sent round in advance." "Certainly I will join you," replied Mr. Howard. "I am afortunate man to have fallen in with good company. Will you let me take passage for Brunswick in your boat?" "Doubtless Mr. Snowden will be happy to see you," and they walked on. Passing near the old fort, Mr. Howard said, "How melan- ch6ly to look at the devastation time, brings upon the works of man! - It would require a vivid imagination to shape that fragment of wall before us into quadrangular barracks. to smoot he these tangled weeds into a fine parade ground, to erect buildings, intersect handsome streets, and people them with busy soldiers and citizens, throbbing -with life, and hurrying to their respective avocations. To look at all this desolation, one can scarcely believe that a cen- tury ago this place almost rivaled Charleston in business." "Gen. Oglethorpe has justly been called 'The first of chiefs;' and it has been aptly said, although his 'sepulchre is in England, his- monument is in Georgia. " "He deserves all and more praise than you have bestowed, Mrs. de Coy. His benevolence of character was great, and the estrangement and reconciliation between Charles Wesley and j himself is a most touching little episode in his-   tory, affording to the eyes of posterity a beau- tiful insight into the character of each." The dinner spread under the Robimna trees fancifully decked in brilliant garb of autumn, was fine, and the assembled guests did ample justice to its excellence. Mr. and Mrs. Snow- den greeted Mr. Howard warmly. "I felt really provoked at your running away so unceremoniously from us, Mr. Howard," said tlithe latter, "I feel much inclined to scold unless you make amends by a longer stay this time." "You must persuade our fair friend, Mrs. de Coy, to stand my security for good conduct," said the young gentleman. Mrs. de Coy af- fected not to hear the remark, and engaged Mr. Snowden in a historic discussion on the former grandeur of i"Old Town." After din- ner, the party started in wagons and-rode along the smooth, level shell roads to the eastern side of the Island as far as the Light House. Many of the ladies and gentlemen went up the spiral stairway to the top, and the beautiful view from this elevation repaid the labor of climbing. The boats were a mile -distant from the Light House, but the walk on the beach was delight- ful, along a road better paved by the cunning hand of Neptune, than any the ingenuity of Macadam ever conceived, decorated by the many-hued conchological treasures of the deep. "Mrs. de Coy," said Mr. Howard, "allow the gratification of walking with you. I am so unused to crowds that I grow very diffident. among many.                l Leda assented, and they started. It was a clear, beautiful afternoon. The western sun's rays were mellowed by delicate, silver-rimmed.  ambient clouds. The' sea-breeze blew fresh, and the crested waves on the Sound leaped up t ever and anon.  Here and there a dark  s spheroidal buoy could-be seen pointing out the s shoal waters to the mariners.       t Leda felt wrapped in melancholy memories. This beach recalled Ralph and his untimely fate forcibly to her, and she was unusually t taciturn. Mr. Howard spoke on many subjects without interesting her. "' I  never look at the ocean that it does not h cause a favorite passage from AEschylus to recur to me. Do you remember in the Prome- theus, the passage somewhat freely rendered by our De Quincy: '0 multitudinous laughter of the ocean billows?'" "Yes," said Leda, "it is very forcible." "And to my imagination most suggestive.  l As the sea waves roll up and break in spray bu over this fretted beach this afternoon, it is. a   u- Joyous Laughter. Again, as the low dismal moan of the distant breakers floats booming s, upon the ear, it is Sorrowful Laughter. Then, n, as the sea lies still in a calm, like a vast sheet Ie of glass, it is as an infant's smile. But for aw- - ful, sublime grandeur, give me the deriding, Angry Laughter, when the surging inky billows y run mountain high with their 'foam-bell' d summits, threatening destruction such as we 3s have seen them, Miss Leda." "This last you mention is terrific mirth," e said Mrs. de Coy with a shudder. "I like to ' listen to and look on the ocean at a distance. TIt is magnificent, but filled with mournfulness d to me. Its laughter to your ear is wailing and e lamentation to mine." "I regard that scene as the most felicitous , of my life," said Mr. Howard, gazing on the e limitless expanse of waters too earnestly to feel yLeda's last remark. They neared the boats, I and as he was handing Leda into one, he said, laughing, "Mrs. de Coy, had you not better place yourself under my special care?" "This does not happen to be a steamboat, and we will not be liable to any catastrophe from bursting boilers." "But we may capsize," replied Mr. Howard, and he took a seat beside Leda and near Mrs. Snowden, who sustained nearly the whole con- versation. The whole journey, a part of which was by moonlight, awoke such painful recollec- tions to Leda that she only forced herself to utter an occasional monosyllable, Arriving at Brunswick, Mr. Howard escorted her home, and inquired rather playfully if she had cast her cheerful spirit into the sea. "O no, I am addicted to melancholy some- times. To-night 'My soul is dark,' as Byron says, and in vain I strive to emerge from the shadow. I regret, Mr. Howard, I was not able to conceal my feelings." "I shall call soon," said the gentleman. "I hope I shall have recovered my mirth then." said Leda. "  HeIe is Edward ;" and bidding adieu, Mr. Howari left her with a gentle pressure of the hand. CHAPTER XIII. On reaching home, after his interview with Mrs. Ravenel, Tom informed his mother that business called him to Savannah for a few days, and he would thank her to arrange some cloth-     ing for him to take along. He quieted all in- vestigations on her part by pretending that his journey would be greatly to his advantage, and its purport should be disclosed at a future time not very distant. He was unusually kind to Blanche. Perhaps some shadow of remorse filled his bosom at the base course he was about to take, the perpetra- tion of which would leave his wife to the mercy of his mother and cousin, who, he well knew, were not kindly disposed. His absences no long- er affected Blanche. Their frequency had accus- tomed her to them, and they relieved her from a tyranny at once unmerited and distressing. Thursday came; and as the first dawn dap- pled the east with its delicate tints, prepara- tory to the copning of the King of Day, Tom rose from an uneasy slumber. Blanche lay locked in calm repose. Her breathing was as regular and gentle as an infant's. Very deli- cate and beautiful she looked in her night robes, her luxuriant curls clustered around her face. Tom completed his toilet noiselessly, and approached the door. Looking back, his glance for a moment fell on the form of his sleeping wife. Regret swept over him. He was almost tempted to give up his nefarious plans, and strive to become a virtuous man. He walked on tip-toe to the bed, and, stoop- ing, pressed a light kiss on Blanche's brow. The touch caused her to slightly contract her forehead. "She hates me even in her sleep," he said, inwardly. "Antoinette loves me. I can be happy with her. " Softly he left the room, bade his mother good-bye, left adieus for, his cousin, and sought the rendezvous. 'Tom, I am glad to see you I' exclaimed Antoinette. "I have waited long, and thought you had given up our trip." "The sun is just rising. I am true to the appointment," he said, glancing at the bril- liant luminary. "B'tter be too soon than too late," replied this buxom lass, as she got into the wagon. A ride 4 some miles brought them- to the river, wherd? the steamer was visible. The negro driver was paid some hush money, and prom- ised profound secrecy. The youthful pair were soon aboard the vessel, steaming away to Sa- vannah, where they arrived safely after a most propitious voyage. Tom had no difficulty in persuading artless Antoinette to endorse the check with the name of Blanche; and, going to the bank, he cashed it readily, and returned to the hotel where he had procured a room.  ,   "Put on your bonnet, Antoinette," said he, "and let us go to the shops and get some fine dress articles for you." Antoinette assented. The elegance of the hotel confounded her simple ideas, and she was not loth to look on greater splendors. Ar- raying her voluptuous form in her holiday garb, she left the house witlhTom. The wonders revealed by Aladdin's lamp were not more bewildering than the city nov- elties to untutored, unsophisticated Antoinette. She gazed with astonishmentand childish de- light at each new sight, as she walked along the pavement. Often a gleeful exclamation escaped her lips, and sometimes she stood still to take a longer look at the most captivating objects. "Hurry on,' Antoinette, or we shall not get to the stores," said Tom; and reluc- tantly she quickened her steps. In the shops, she could not decide on the merits of the gay calicos, silks, and other materials for ladies' wear. Finally she forced herself to select a fine foulard silk, with bright bunches of flow- ers sprinkled all over it. While she was ad- miring it and other things, and Tom held his roll of bank bills in his hand, some one tapped- him on the shoulder. "Hallo, Tom I You in Savannah, old boy? I'm glad to meet you," shaking him by the hand warmly. "Dick, how are you?" exclaimed Tom, with all the delight felt by a stranger at meet- ing an acquaintance in a strange place. "Where did you spring from, Tom? I thought yotu were in Florida, where I left you.'  "I came here last night." At this moment Antoinette received her package, and ap- proached Tom. "Is this your wife?" said Dick Larkin. "I congratulate you. I heard you had made a runaway match. Introduce me to her." Tom looked rather embarrassed, but gave the desired presentation, rather awkwardly. "Don't blush, man I' said Dick. "A good wife is a powerful thing ;" and,- lowering his voice, he added, "better still if she have money. I must take you under my wing, and show you round," he continued aloud. Pay- ing the bill, the trio left the store, and Larkin took them up Bull street to the new Pulaski monument. "I would not mind dying," said Antoinette, -"if I could have a pretty, tall pillar like that put over me." Tom and Larkin laughed, 'and said they   would rather live longer, and look at the' mon- ument over some one else. They visited the Park. Here Antoinette's delight knew no bounds. The great Triton, with the water-jets springing up through the shells in the fountain, was a miracle to her siniple understanding. She returned to the hotel reluctantly. Difck Larkin was an acquaintance Tom had made on the St. John's river, where he went occasionally. Dick was often engaged in boat- ing and fishing, in the spring and fall, when catching the mullet and preparing them for market is very profitable. At present, Dick was an agent for a gambling saloon. His busi- ness was to hunt strangers and entice them to this den of iniquity. He was delighted to meet Tom., He saw that Slugg was very "green," and a nice one to pluck. On parting, he said, "Tom, I will call after tea. Mrs. Slugg can spare you, and we will walk around. Y6u seem to have plenty of money, and must treat." Tom promised, and was ready when Larkin came; and they left the house. Five hundred dollars was to Tom inexhaustible riches. He had never before seen that much in his life; and the knowledge that it was all his inflated him with conceit. Dick carried himn to a drink- ing saloon, where he called for several drinks, cigars, and then more liquor. By this time Tom was completely reckless. "Come, Tom; your purse is full; let us go and try our luck at winning, and you can dou- ble your money." Tom was fond of play, and followed Dick, who led him into an elegant gambling saloon. The fine furniture, the brilliant gas-jets, ap- peared as a fairy palace to Tom's whirling brain. He was led in the centre of the room, where men were playing, Wvith large piles of. gold heaped on the table. Tom joined in the game with zest, and at first was remarkably  lucky. This made him reckless and adventu-  rous. He won largely. But, after a time, the t tide turned, and he played, still hoping to re- c trieve his losses. Each time, nervously, he would put up a stake, thinking he would gain; t but alas I no more luck was his. He rose X from the table without a dollar in the world. Excited with liquor, and frantic at the thought . of all his fortune being swept away, he be- came suspicious of foul play.       d "Look here, Larlin; I believe you are swindlers, and that I have been cheated!" h Larkin laughed, and endeavored to pacify his victim; bnt Tom turned angrily aw ay, and, a with oaths, accused a savage-looking profes- .    - sional gamester, near him at the table, of un- e fair play. v   The man scowled and, muttering an oath, said, s "Young man, you lost your money fairly. Go home, and do not molest me." Tom swore loudly that his opponent was a liar, and drew his revolver. Dick, seeing I things look serious, was about interposing to t get Tom away, when Tom sprung at the gam- * bler, swearing he would kill him if he did not restore the money. Just then, a loud report of a pistol was heard, and Tom fell as Dick got near enough to receive his tottering form. "He has won his deserts!" said the black- leg, with savage scowl, and he disappeared. A scene of confusion ensued, and Tom was con- veyed to a room where his wound could be ex- amined. It was pronounced mortal and, in a few hours, this victim of parental indulgence and ungovernable passions passed away to the judgment bar of an outraged Father in Hea- ven-one more bloody comment on the wick- edness of cursing, drinking, and gaming. Let 'those who love to tread the devious ways of vice remember that "the wages of sin is death." -Let it be engraven as the motto on the escut- cheon of every young soldier entering on the great battle fieldof life. "Bab, do throw aside that curtain, and hoist the window," said a voice so low as to be al- most a whisper. "The sunshiie is warm, and I think the fresh air will revive me. Well does England'& finest rural poet style the sunshine a 'glorious birth.'" Miss Bab adjusted the curtain and window as directed, and returned near the bedsjde of Mrs. Elson. She had changed in the past few weeks. Her brightened eye, the transparent complex- ion; with its deep carnation spots resting on the cheeks, the attenuated features, all told of the ravages of that most relentless of all dis- eases-con sumption. "' Sit down, Bab. I Wvish to say a few things to you. I may not again have an opportu- nity." Miss Bab took her seat, saying, "I fear you will tire yourself. Wait until you feel stronger." "That will never be. I grow weaker every day, and I shall not trouble any one long." "Do not speak so de;spondingly, Kate. I hope to see you well again." "Bab, my earthly course is well nigh run. I asked Dr. Kelton seriously to tell me if there Iwas hope. I desired a candid reply. He said     there was none. I might, with care, linger long, or at any moment I might be taken away. I have been prepared for many years, and have little to live for." "Your children, dear Kate; are they no- thing?" -' AhI that is one cause of disquiet to me. Leda is young, and will be alone in thfe world when I am gone. Edward is too small to be a protector. If I could only see her well mar- ried, I could die with no regrets." "1 believe-in truth, I know-that Mr. How- ard loves Leda," said Miss Bab. "He is a noble young man, and, in my opinion, he is something more than a wandering artist." t"And, my child-does she love Mr. How- ard?" "I think so," answerel Miss Bab; "but Mr. Howard is shy and reserved, and keeps aloof from ladies. Early on his return, he called here often, and I thought he would ad- dress Leda;- but he has not been here in a long time." A violent paroxysm of coughing prevented Mrs. Elson's reply, and she was too much ex- hausted to resume the theme during Miss Bab's stay. One afternoon, soon after the conversation between Mrs. Elson and Miss Bab, Leda was combing her mother's hair. "Leda," she said, "Dr. Kelton says there is no hope of my recovery, and I feel my strength grow less every day. Poor child I what will you do when I am gone?" "I have always put away such thoughts as they arose, dear mother. They are too tortur- ing. I -hope God will spare your life; for my situation will be truly isolated." "The thought," said the invalid, "of leav- ing you alone makes me unwilling to die. If you only had a -protector, I would be better satisfied. Leda," she resumed, after a silence of some minutes, "have you seen no one since Ralph's death who could supply his place in your heart? Have you never felt a tenderer sentiment than that of mere gratitude for the man who so heroically saved your life?" Leda was silent; but a painful blush covered her face; and, raising her eyes, those of her mother were fixed upon her. "I intend never to marry again. Mr. How- ard is nothing to me." " But he might be, dear child. If he is wor- thy, cultivate the affection I see rests in your heart for him. It is right,that you should form new ties in this world. It is wicked to repine   at the decrees of God. It injures you, and does the lost Ralph no good. Promise me, Leda, if Mr. Howard addresses you, and you  love him, that you will marry him. It will lift aweight of care from me." Mrs. Elson placed her wan hand -on Leda's bowed head caress- ingly. "Mother," said Leda, after a long silence, "it is not difficult to assent to your wish. I have struggled long against what I considered a sinful weakness. Once I had the power to have fulfilled your desire; but I refused Mr. Howard, from a sense of duty. I have every reason to believe that he has ceased to care for me." ' The interview was interrupted by the en- trance of others, and Leda left the room. "Leda, I wish you to go with me to Mrs. Brown's, this afternoon," said Miss Bab, as she came with Mrs. Snowden, some days after Leda's conversation with her mother, to sit with Mrs. Elson. "Yes, Leda, the walk will benefit you," chimed in Mrs. Snowden. "I will amuse your mother; and I feel convinced she will enjoy my society more than yours." "Very well-I will go. I am often a gloomy companion, and mamma needs cheerful com- pany." Mr. Howard, after his first renewal of ac- quaintance with Mrs. de Coy, had visited her several times. He was courteous and agreea- ble; but there was nothing in his manner which led Leda to suppose he remembered the tender scene which had passed between them. Sud- denly his visits had ceased altogether; and as her time was spent with her mother, she had not met him. Despite her efforts to control her thoughts, they would cluster around him, and the total absence of all intercourse be- tween them distressed her secretly. Mr. Howard was fond of solitude, and one of his favorite amusements was fishing. Not very long after his return to Brunswick, while en- gaged in this indolent sport, and dreaming of his lady-love, he was startled by a voice accost- ing him. "* Good day, Mr. Howard. I was not cogni- zant of your return." The speaker was Mr. Howard's steamboat acquaintance, who held a fishing-rod in his hand. Mr. Howard greeted him kindly, and the gentleman proposed their joining company for the morning. He sat down and dropped his line, as Mr. Howard assented.   "Are you fond of fishing? It is poor sport at this season.-" i It is an unresolved debate whether the hap- piness of man in this world consists more in contemplation or action. I am of the opinion that it is the combination of both which brings  the most perfect beatitude. But I am addicted to the exercise of these principles separately. When I am a dreamer, I like fishing. Are you partial to the sport?" inquired Mr. Howard. "Yes; but it is the action I desire. I never fish when I get no nibbles. I wish to escape from reflection. You take, as the corner -stone of your faith, the motto of Des Cartes-'Cog- ito erqo sum. " "Yes; fLut you surprise me. By avoiding reflection, we yield up half, at least -of the pleasures of life," said the artist. "At your age, perhaps, one does. Thought to me involves what Bacon denominates being 'a cannibal of one's own heart.' When you have, like me, through many disastrous years, battled against the 'waves and weathers of time,' you will think as . do. What subjects * of meditation engage you when fishing?" Mr. Howard laughed, saying, "' They are too- . numerous to mention. I often design scenes I wish to depict ip my efforts as an artist. Then I delve into the past, and fancy how fishing was carried on by anglers prior to Deucalion's flood; dream of the musical river Elusina, Ar- istotle mentions; the devout one, which runs only six days, and rests each Sabbath, which the learned Jew, Josephus, describes; and the enormous fishes and eels caught in the Indian Sea and the river Ganges, spoken of by the philosopher,' Pliny." "And,'-' replied the elder man, " do you contemplate importing some of these marvel- ouls fish bones to erect your dwelling of, as did  the inhabitants of the Island of Cadara, near s the river Ganges, which the last mentioned pro-  found author tells of?" "I had not dwelt on that. Being a bach- X elor, I had no need of any such practical re- g fleetions. Thank you for the suggestion," re- plied Mr. Howard, laughing. "Why continue a bachelor? Did not the bright eyes and seductive manners of the lady E you so gallantly rescued from the sea captivate you?"  "Assuredly; I should be a false-hearted I knight did I not swear eternal fealty to so 1 charming a lady."             b "Then, why," asked his companion, "has not Mr. Howard been persuaded to foreswear i   celibacy, and enlist under the oriflamme of matrimony?" "Perhaps because the fair one will not ac- cept me," said the artist, Slightly embarrassed, but in a laughing tone. "Never fear, man. You know the adage about faint hearts. If this widow is coy, it is a trap to lead you on. Womren are all alike. Thorough diplomats. They understand all the arts of successfully casting their nets. Believe me, they excel -us in angling. I have known hundreds, and they are all alike-deceivers." "Your assertion is comprehensive. You are a resident of Brunswick. I am a stranger. I will test your good will. Tell me, what do you know of. Mr. de Coy?"Mr. Howard's question was abrupt, and he looked directly at the gentleman-beside him. ,His gjance was returned by a pair of keen, falcon-like eyes, which actually glitiered with a cold, steely expression, proclaiming that their owner hleld no, faith in God or man. He answered carelessly, with a shrug of his shoul- ders. "Of her, nothing in particular; but she-is a woman. Why should she not possess the attributes inherent in her sex?" The answer caused a disagreeable sensation in Mr. Howard. He felt as if the glance of those glittering, basilisk eyes had penetrated his heart and turned it to steel. Placing his hand on the man's shoulder, he said, again looking directly at him, "Suppose I really have serious intentions of making her my wife, is she not suitable-good and true? Tell me. I ask as a stranger seeking important informa- tioIn."' With a sardonic smile, the man replied, "I have already told you I knew nothing of Mrs. de Coy. I presume she is as 'good and true' as any of her sex. I am almost as much a stranger here as you ;" and he changed the conversation. Mr. Howard was annoyed; and, before long, meeting with no piscatory success, he rose to go. "Will you walk?".  - "No; I will persevere longer. I may ctch fish; we ,have been too talkative." As Mr. Howard disappeared from view, the scoffer laughed aloud: "The bait has taken. Young man, you are green, although you have, from your own account, traveled in Europe. I have tripped up the trap laid by proud Mrs. Elson to catch another husband for her daugh- ter ;" and again his bitter laugh rang out. Mr. Howard in vain reasoned against the ar- rows of insinuated slander which the manner     'more than the words of the strange gentleman had poisoned. He reflected on all his inter- course with Leda, and every trait she' had ex- hibited to his limited view. All was right and fascinating. But there must be something wrong lurking. behind, of which the mocking demon knew, or he would not have spoken of her as he did. In this state of distrust, Mr. Howard resolved to keep away from Mrs. El- son's house. Distance only serves to enhance the magnitude of suspicion. There is but one way to dispel it, and that is by investigation. But, to the sensitive artist, a husband-seeking, diplomatic woman was eminently distasteful, and he kept aloof, hoping to overcome his doubts, or that some circumstance would arise to dispel them-or, to be able to conquer his passion. Leda, at Miss Bab's bidding, had prepared for her walk to Mrs. Brown's, and the two la- dies sallied forth. Their visit was paid, and they left the house, near which they encoun- tered Mr. Howard. He bowed, and was about passing, when Miss Bab invited him to join them. "I shall take no refusal, Mr. Howard. You are a gentleman of leisure, and I wish to hear an account of yourself all this long while. I have been so engaged in a sick room that I have seen nothing of you." There was no escape, and be walked beside them, Miss Bab taking the direction to Poly- dora's cabin. "To reply to your question, I will plead a bad memory as an excuse for not knowing how I have employed myself all the time." "I fear you are given to idleness," said Miss Bab. "You must mend your ways, or I shall have to cut your acquaintance." a I shopld deprecate the execution of such a sentence," replied Mr. Howard, laughing; "and the dire threat restores my recollection. I have been angling." "What for?" asked Miss Snubb. "Genuine fish. I met a singular man-one of the most fascinating and singular men I ever saw-and he is sometimes my companion. Do either of you ladies happen to be acquainted with him?" "What is his name?" asked Miss Snubb. "I do not know. I never thought of asking, stupid But I can describe him. Mrs. de Coy, I saw him first on the Sea Gull. Per- haps you observed him. He is large, square, well-formed, with 4 dark, sneering face. I   met him again in St. Augustine. He had es- caped the wreck; and some weeks since I saw him here. Are you acquainted with him?" Mr. Howard looked directly at Leda, as he asked this question. Her complexion height- ened its tint, as she returned his glance; but she said, without embarrassment- . "I am not; nor do I know his name. r was riding, one afternoon, and met him on horseback. I saw him talking to you on the steamer." "I would like," Mr. Howard remarked, " to know his history. He reminds me of Goethe's Mephistopheles." Had he observed Miss Bab-her paloer, at the mention of this mysterious person, would have convinced him that she knew something of the desired history. Being near the house of a friend, Miss Bab said, "Leda, I have an engagement here which will detain me some time. Mr. Howard, I place Mrs. de Coy under your care. She needs exercise. Take her on a walk, and escort her home. I will probably be compelled to re- main here all night, as my friend is ill." Mr. Howard promised to obey all instruc- tions; and, bowing, Miss Bab went into the residence in front of which they stood. "I' am under orders for the afternoon, Mrs. de Coy. Where shall we walk?" "You must select the course," said Leda, smiling. "I think Miss Bab promoted you to the position 'of' commander-in-chief. 'Tis I that must yield obedience." "Then, let us walk up this road. The trees are handsome, and the path picturesque. I like to look at the long moss swaying in the breeze." "I think it gracefulf; but it brings up mel- ancholy reflections. Its sombre color has some- thing funereal to me." "Yes; but that fact adds to its beauty. I think Bonaventure, near Savannah, one of the most solemn, yet lovely, natural spots I ever saw. I should like to be buried under the centre of those grand old oaks, with their con- verging, moss-draped arches above and around me. I like to reflect on the sorrowful, some- times." "It makes the heart better," said Leda; "but I have had such a sad life that my thoughts are ever of that nature. Cheerful things are a relief. We like contrast." There was a slight faltering in her voice, as she alluded to her sorrows; and as Mr. How- ard looked at the fair, young face, transparent W   and frail, with the long crepe veil, like a pall around the slender form, some of his reserve melted, and a little of the old warmth returned to his bosom. \ "How little I1 have seen of you, Mrs. de Coy, since my return. My stay here must now be very limited. I had hoped to have met you often. But I must return to my mother." "You have a mother, then. You are fortu- nate. Is she well?" and a sigh escaped Leda as she thought how very soon slh should be without one. "Yes. We are similarly situated in this re- spect. Is your mother not getting better?" - "No; sh grows worse daily. Mr. How- ard," she said, lifting her eyes humid with tears, and with a quivering voice, " thank God hourly that you have not the certainty, as I have, of soon following your beloved parent to the tomb I Let us change the subject. I would put away the painful thought as long as I can." They passed Polydora's cabin. "Who lives in that antiquated hut?" inquired Mr. How- ard. "A negro woman--a wild, savage-looking person, who tells fortunes."  "Shall we enter and read the fates?" he asked. "Does she foretell events truly?"'  "No, I think not; yet, many believe in her. I She told my fortune long ago." "Shall we sit down under this beautiful t tree, and will you tell me what she prediscted?" t Leda sat down on a gentle elevation on the v spot designated, and Mr. Howard sat near. "Though never very gay, I was a light- hearted girl, when a companion insisted I should accompany her. I did so, and the witch, against my consent, told me I should A meet my intended in a week; that I would I marry, and become a widow, and cross the t Atlantic."                y "She 'was a true prophetess, then, in all but I one thing."! ' "Yes; she divined all correctly. We forget ti the false, and remember that only which is ver- h ified," replied Leda. "I did not know you had visited Europe," a said Mr. Howard. "I never did. But I was on the Atlantic si when the SeatGull was lost. Doubtless that pi circumstance verified the vaticination." at "Perhaps not. Have you never desired to H visit Europe, Mrs. de Coy, and tread on the tu classic ground of Greece and Italy, the birth- th place of the arts and sciences?"     ar   "Once I did feel an ardent wish to see the e great world; but my heart seems to have been I melted in the crucible of affliction." "Time is the great alchymist. There is no pain whose anguish he cannot heal. It be- comes a duty to forget our griefs, for our own sake and that of others," said Mr. Howard. "That is true; but how frequently does weak humanity diverge from the narrow path of dutyl I think Hinda's lament in Lalla Rookh most applicable to me-I shall soon have nothing left." "I trust your fears are magnified by appre- hension, and that your mother may be restored to you." After a short pause, he continued, "You told me, on the day I met you at Fred- erica, that you had sometimes thought of me during my absence. Do -you never regret the course you took the night you last sang for me? In all the long months I was away, your concluding words rang mournfully in my ears; but they cheered me, because I thought you did care for me. Leda, I came back to Bruns- wick especially to ask you. to change your deci- sion. Again I say, accept my love, and let me be everything to you. Dear Leda! tell me, can you love the obscure- painter?" Leda placed her soft hand in that of the gentleman; their eyes met; and in her glance Mr. Howard read all he wished to know. "And now, my own beautiful sea-nymph, the old fortune teller's prophecy must come true. Shall we not cross the Atlantic together, where I can follow my art, once so beloved, now obscured by a far dearer love? 'Oh., how sweet! Divinely sweet it is to feel our being Reflected in another's beauteous soul.' We shall feel all this, and more, my gentle Leda; and I will take you to a land more beau- tiful than this, and, in being happy with me, you shall forget the sorrows of the past." Mr. Howard modulated a naturally musical voice to its softest tones, as he repeated the quota- tion to his lady-love; and Leda. in listening to him, forgot her griefs for a season. "It grows late-shall we return home?'" and he assisted Leda to rise. As they walked down the road, nearly oppo- site Polydora's house, they saw a man ap- proaching, and, as 'he came nearer, Mr. How- ard recognized his fishing acquaintance. Mr. Howard bowed, and as his salutation was re- turned, he encountered again the glitter of those frozen eyes, while a satiric smile played around the lip.     "That is my unknown friend," said Mr. Howard. "Did you observe him? His pres- ence chills me always." "No," answered Leda; "I did not look at him carefully. He has the same effect on me. As I mentioned, I met him once, and, his horse taking fright, caused me to be thrown, and a friend who was with me to be very seri- ously injured. He is like a bird of evil omen. I trust his presence bodes no evil; for each time I have seen him, some catastrophe fol- lowed." "Are you superstitious?" asked Mr. How- ard. "Not very. But some things confound me by their mystery. Mr. Howard," and Leda raised her loving, earnest eyes to his hand- some face, "how did your veiled picture come ill my room the night before I met you at St. Simon's?" "That is a secret," he replied, laughing, "I must not disclose. Tell me what you did with my miniature. If your report is flattering, I may give the desired information." "I put it away among my valuables," she said. "' And did you not look at it? I imagined that you kept it near, and thought kindly of the original."           i "I did the latter; but I gazed but once at the picture. I intended to return it when I met you." "And take the original?" he asked, smil- ing; and, taking her hand, "Promise me, dearest, to take care of both." Leda laughed and blushed, and they parted at her dwelling. Mr. Howard promised to call after tea, and at some tfuture time to tell about the shrouded painting. Leda found Miss Bab with her mother, and the latter better, and quite cheerful.  "I thought you had i sick friend to detain you all night," said Leda, "when you issued your peremptory orders for Mr. Howard to es- cort me."  "And so I have; and, you see, mygood nursing makes her better. Are you sorry I gave him charge of you? Your walk has im- proved you, Leda. Some of your lost beauty has returned. I hope he proposed to continue his walk with you through life, and that you assented." Leda blushed and kissed her mother, whis- pering something to her. A low "God bless you" greeted her, and Leda ran up stairs to adjust her hair.   "It is all arranged, Bab," said the invalid. "Tell her to set an early day for the wedding. When the Heavenly Master calls, I shall be ready to go. I asked Mr. Snowden something of Mr. Howard, when you first told me about his attachment to my daughter. Mr. Snowden assured methat Mr. Howard was of high stand- ing-that his credentials were indisputable. From some whim, he desired tobe known sim- ply as an artist. Leda, however, knows noth- ing of my consultation with Mr. Snowden." Mr: Howard was true' to his engagement. "Can' you sing for me? I am in a domineer- ing humor, and wish to be charmed into amia- bility by your dulcet tones." "Yes; I am of an accommodating disposi- tion," she replied, as he led her to the piano. "I wish the same song," Mr. Howard said, "that you sang that cruel night which drove me to the far west." She sang it, with scarcely less emotion; but to-night it was the agitation of happiness; and Mr. Howard joined her, the two voices accord- ing into beautiful harmony. "Leda," said the lover, "how confiding you' are!l You have never asked a word of my antecedent history." "Why should I? I have full confidence in your integrity." "Whence did it arise?" "I have never analyzed my feelings; but everything about you inspires trust." "'And betokens the wandering painter?" "No; I never think of your profession. It is a beautiful art; but the man dignifies the calling. Thlen, my mother approved of you, and her opinions always are well founded on solid principles. I have ever found her a sure guide; and my faith in her demands no reason beyond her opinion." "Did she plead for me, and she has never met me?" "She discovered her child's weakness," said Leda, casting down her eyes, "and de- sired her happiness." "And, darling, neither she nor you shall ever regret your trust. My life shall be de- voted to your pleasure. Set an early day for our nuptials. I will bring my mother, and we will take a tour to Cuba. The climate there will do much to restore your mother." Mr. Howard spent several weeks, after his engagement, in Brunswick, during which time he visited- Mrs. de Coy almost daily, and was much with Mrs. Elson. Miss Snubb spent all of her time with her friend. Mr. Howard had   a fine voice, and sometimes read aloud to the invalid, who appeared much improved. She could sit up almost all of each day. Leda, happy in her love, and deceived into the belief that her mother would recover, resumed her old cheerful spirit, and her face assumed its former beauty, dimmed only for a season. Their future plans were all perfected. Mr Howard and Leda were to be married early in October, and Mrs. Elson, Miss Bab, and Ed- ward, with Mr. Howard's mother, were to start for Havana for the winter. Mrs. Elson acqui- esced. in all these details, and was cheerful surrounded by those she loved. But she felt that her life was ebbing fast, and that she would never more leave her room. Each week Mr. Howard brought her beautiful flowers, and tempting delicacies which he ordered from Sa- vannah. He proposed t'hat he should go for his mother some time before his marriage. He had written her of his betrothal to Mrs. de Coy, with all the ardor of a lover's partial pen, and his mother felt anxious to meet her future daughter. The last night of his stay in Brunswick, Mr. Ho:oard called on Mrs. de Coy. Naturally they felt gloomy at their first parting "I shall be  wretched without my little nymph," said Mr[. Howard: "My art no longer attracts me."  "And we shall have no one to read to us;  and I must listen to my own songs, as there  will be no one to sing to me."  "Will you miss me, sweet Leda? You a must wear this for my sake ;" and he placed  a glittering diamond on her tapering finger. v Reluctantly he rose to leave. "Darling," he said, while holding her hand, " may I tell you h adieu as my heart prompts?" and, putting his arm around her, he pressed a tender, loving  kiss on her lips, and was gone.  so m CHAPTER XIV.  "Welcome, my son 1" exclaimed Mrs. Ray-  enel, as Paul entered his mother's dwelling, li unannounced. "How well you look I Love up is a great beautifier."  "When the object is exalted. But, mother,  I cannot compliment you in like manner. Your we illness has Heft its trace. I reproach myself for by not coming immediately home; but your letter at New Orleans reassured me. I was in a rest- as] 10   he less state of .mind, and traveled for diver- he sion."   - ' la,  Ilam glad you did so. Had you been at ief home, only sorrow would have greeted you." er  "What I Has any misfortune occurred? I its shall never forgive myself for not returning." n.  "'It was beyond your control. Sit down, r. and I will tell you all my trouble. Very soon in after you left, the man your unfortunate sister d- married came Here with a note from her, de- rt manding five I undred dollars." iz The villain! I hope you did not send it." 1,  "Yes. I wes nettled at his presence, and It I was disgusted at my daughter's want of deli- e cacy. The note expressed the most urgent k need for that amount, with a promise of re- d nouncing all further claims on the estate. You - have well designated that man a villain. I can r scarce believe, even now, that one so young could be so deeply versed in vice, and so lost to shame. He fled with a low paramour to Sa- , vannah, en route for Kentucky, and was killed in a brawl in a gambling saloon." "A good thing, and Blanche-what of her? Unfortunate girl!" said Paul. "I seldom, as you know, leave home, and ever since my daughter's marriage, I have suf- fered no one to mention her or her relatives in my presence. Near two months passed by and I knew nothing until I overheard one of my servants tell another that 'ever since Mas Tom's death Miss Slugg treated Miss Blanche awful bad.' I asked the girl if Mr. Slugg was at home, and was told that he had been killed very soon after he ran away. I did not like to question her about Blanche, and was at a loss how to act. "While revolving many plans to extricate my unfortunate child from her difficulties, and a prey to torturing accusations from my con- science, I was one morning standing near the glass,- arranging my hair, when a voice, child- ish and sweet, said: ' I have come to see you, mother I' andTa hysterical laugh followed the words. I turned, and saw the lost Blanche-but how changed! Beautiful still, dressed in a loose white morning robe; her hair, in wild curls, falling around her, and an unnatural, strange light, in her eye. As the conviction dawned upon me that my child was a maniac, had be- come so from cruel persecution within a stone's throw of my own door, I gasped for breath, and would have fallen had I not supported myself by holding to the bureau." "Oh! why did you not summon me home?" asked Paul. "I shall never forgive myself."     "I did not wish to pain you. Mustering all  the self-command I was mistress of, I said, : smiling: 'I am glad you came, Blanche 1' and stooping, I kissed her. I then saw that she 1 was without shoes, and her delicate feet were scratched, bleeding and swollen. My heart bled, too. Oh what a hell the thirst for r e- venge upon the intriguing authors of my child's i ruin made in my bosom at that moment I I  forgot I was a Christian-that I was a professed follower of the meek and lowly Jesus. 'My child,' I said, ' it is early in the morning. You look very tired. Lie down, and I will bathe your feet, and bring your breakfast.' i"She laughed, and in a docile, child-like way, said, I am weary, mother. Have I any moth- er?' and again the wild laugh echoed through the room. "Yes, dear Blanche, and you shall always be with me." "'I will go, then,' she said, and I, with a bursting heart and a smiling brow, undressed the sufferer, put on fresh clothing and placed her in my own bed. I bathed her lacerated feet and smoothed her tangled hair, and watched her until she slept." "I prepared her breakfast, and returned to my post, to look in agony on the poor wreck of the gay, the pampered daughter of our house. She slept some hours; but even in slumber, the brain was busy, and words deprecating the tyr- anny of her unnatural husband and his rela- tives escaped her lips. When she awoke, it was with a bewildered stare, and as I passed my hand caressingly on the pale brow, and asked herto take her food, a sweet smile played around her lips.. She was too feeble to leave her bed for days, and I learned as I sat beside her, from her talk while in dream-land, that Mrs. Slugg had driven her-off, accusing her of being the cause of Tom's death. Oh, Paul I think of your sister wandering abroad house- less, as a common vagrant, while her own mother lived by in affluence I Verily, God pun- ishes in this world for wrong deeds. His ways are inscrutable. My daughter reaps lunacy for' disobedience, and I sorrow over her lost intel- lect as a reward for my unforgiving spirit." "And where is Blanche?" asked Paul in a faltering tone. "I endured so much anguish as I sought, day by day, to divert her, and of necessity com- pelled to keep a smiling face, that I nearly lost my qwn reason. Blanche was tractable and affectionate. There was nothing strange in her appearance but the unsettled glance of hqr   eye. Often she spoke, connectedly for hours; and nothing but the wild laugh indicated a wavering intellect. -Thus several weeks glided by, when one day she mentioned Tom. 'He promised me a new dress and did not send it. He did not give me money, or 1 could get it.' 1 imprudently asked her if she got the money I sent her when her husband came for it. She did not remember it. ' Yes,'"I said, ' you wrote the note asking for five hundred dollars.' 0 Paul I may I never again witness the horrors I beheld that day I I cannot enter into the details. I gathered from the ravings which your sister fell into, tearing out her hair, and foam- ing at the mouth, that Mr. Slugg had forced her signature to a paper with a loaded pistol beside him. To her, the application for money was unknown. I procured a physician, and, by his advice, sent your sister to an asylum for the insane. He was kind enough to take her there. It was all this affliction, my dear boy, 'which brought on my illness, of which I wroto you." "And do you hear from her? Is there hope of restoration?" inquired Paul. "' I have letters occasionally, and am led to believe she will recover. I have often sent her boxes of delicacies, and funds to defray ex- penses. I felt satisfied that all was being done, until a short while ago a lady, coming near here, forwarded me a letter from Blanche her- self. In it she complains, of enduring every privation in food and clothing. This I would have attributed to an insane fancy, but I wrote the lady, inquiring if she knew whether the ar- ticles I sent ever reached my child. She replied, she presumed not, as the employees of the in- stitution often appropriate every delicacy sent the poor unfortunates, to their own use. They do not fear exposure. There is never any in- vestigation into such practices, and if the luna- tics complain, it is laughed at as an insane fancy. Thus the State is fleeced, the public blinded, and the patients robbed and defrauded out of their just dues." "Mother," said Paul, after a silence of some time, "your experience has been horri- ble, and I regret you-did not send for me. I should have beJn here to have lent my aid. But do not grieve. I will take sister with us to Europe, and she shall be restored, if human means can do it." "Tell me of yourself and your plans." Paul gave an account of his journey to Northwest and Texas, and its cause, and of his return. Of his meeting Mrs. de 'Coy at St.   Simon's, and his delay in Brunswick. "The rest you know,'except that I came to take you with me, on my return, when I shall receive my beauteous bride." "How singular that you should remain ob- livious to tie charms' of the courtly ladies of Europe, and seek a wife in democratic America! I thought you were prejudiced, my son, espe- cially against widows." 4"I was; but I am also inconsistent. In Europe I was married to my art. Am I not an American after all? When you see my lit- tle widow you will not wonder that she took your pensive Paul captive. Here is a faint re- semblance of her ;" and he placed in Mrs. Ravenel's hand the miniature of Leda. Mrs. Ravenel looked long at it. "Is she not beautiful?" asked the impatient lover, "and she is far more lovely in character than in face." "She is charming, and there is a striking re- semblance in her features to your own," said the mother, looking admiringly at her hand- some son. Paul was three weeks at home, during which time all plans were perfected. The remaining family servants of the Ravenel estate were emancipated, and allowed to cultivate and take care of the homestead, which was retained in - the family. This was left in charge of an hon- I est and worthy neighb r.  Both Mrs. Ravenel a d her son bade a long adieu to thier home with regrets. There were v tender memories and sad recollections clus- 1 tering around the spot for them; and in the t uncertainty of the future they might never be- t hold it again. They reached Brunswick one morning several i hours before day light, after a pleasant voyage, y and took lodgings at the Oglethorpe Hotel. Af- ter breakfast, Paul, impatient for a suitable h hour to arrive for his visit to Leda, proposed M taking Mrs. Ravenel into the cupola. The a view from this observatory was extensive and picturesque. Paul experienced an almost child- g ish delight in looking at the foam-crested waves c] of the wild Atlantic. * "Look at the glorious scene, 'mother " u" he exclaimed. "'It was there I first found her."  "Found her? Who did you find?" asked  r Mrs. Ravenel, quite bewildered at such enthu al siasm. "My lady-love I rescued her from the waves as for myself. Do you feel surprised at my ad- miration for the sea now?"        gr 40   le  "No; but you must enlighten me on the sub- ,u ject of the implied catastrophe." re  "Paul began, but looking at his watch, he saw it was half-past nine, and promising to con- a- elude at some future time, he attended his f mother down stairs and left, saying, "I will bring Leda to see you this morning." Paul found Leda in the garden, gathering some chrysanthemums. Her face was turned n from him, and lhe approached very near to her t before she discovered him. ;- "I did not expect you," she said with a : beautiful smile on her ruby lips. '"I wrote you I would be here to-day." "I did not get your letter," was her reply. "And where are those my love promised to write me to cheer me in my desolation?" "Did you not receive them?"Leda asked in a disappointed tone. Paul laughed, and they went into the parlor. "You must give me a peace offering," he said, kissing her; " and now will you get your bonnet and call with me to see my mother?" "We expected her to come to us, and are fully prepared." "Leda, how is your own dear mother?" "Much the same. Sometimes better, and again worse," and the old settled look of mel- ancholy swept over her face, before illumined by the surprise and pleasure of meeting Mr. How- ard. Leda left the room and informed her mother and Miss Bab that Mr. Howard had come, and his mother was at the hotel. "I am going now to call. Shall I bring her with me on my re- turn?" "Certainly, " said Miss Bab. Her chamber is prepared. Your mother is too ill to call, and you must represent her." Leda returned to Paul, and they went to the hotel, where he presented her to Mrs. Ravenel, who greeted her most warmly and. affection- ately. "I am afraid mother will rival me in your good opinion, Mrs. de Coy," said Paul, mis- chievously. "She likes to spoil young peo- ple, and it is natural to love those best who pet us most." "I was never aware that you were a tease, Paul,'.' said Mrs. Ravenel. "I thought you a reserved, dignified gentleman, who inspired awe in every one." "And are these attributes incompatible?" asked the son, laughing. Leda delivered her mother's request, and re- grets that her health did not permit her to urge     it in person. "Of course you will remain with us." "Until you are mine, sweet Leda," Mr. Howard whispered., "She colored, and Mrs. Ravenel left the room to prepare for the walk. In a short time they reached Mrs. Elson's res- idence, and after a brief delay they were ush- ered into her sick room. As Mrs. Ravenel approached the invalid, and took her hand, she exclaimed, "Cousin Eliza Ravenel! you Mr. Howard's mother? How delighted I am to meet you, after the lapse of so many years." Mrs. Ravenel embraced the lady, saying, (Cousin Catherine, I never would have recog- nized you. Why did you not inform me that it was in our own family Paul had found a wife?" "And would you know me?" inquired Miss Snubb. "Yes, Bab. I am rejoiced to see you, and remember you perfectly. We will live over our youth again." While the ladies were hearing explanations, and enjoying a reunion, Paul and Leda had made their escape. "How queer that we should be cousins I I do not understand it. But that accounts for my intuitive confidence in you, Mr. Howard." "I wish I had known many months ago that we were relatives. Mother declared we were strikingly alike when she saw your portrait." "Mr. Howard, Miss Bab noticed aresem- blance between us two, but I thought it was affectation." ' Darling, you must lay aside so much form- ality and call me by my name." "Or cousin," said Leda. ", Once I would have been overjoyed to have held such privilege; now I hope soon to call you by a dearer name. Come and sing the same cruel song I love so well,'"and they went to the piano. Leda sang several songs, and again recurred to the degree of consanquinity which bound them. "We cannot be first cousins, Leda, but if you have any scruples about marrying a cousin, I will set out on a pilgrimage to Rome, and ob- tain a special dispensation to pacify you. Our dear mammas are doubtless enjoying an ex- planatory story more lengthy than Pliny's de- scription of his Laurentinum." ' "I will exercise patience, and would like an indulgence from His holiness, but I am afraid to trust you alone on the Atlantic. You might   get lost, and I would like to be with you in that event," she replied. The halcyon days of courtship closed, and the bridal eve arrived. -Owing to Mrs. Elson's illness, the wedding was private, and no one not of the household was present ex- cept Mr. Snowden, his wife, and little Ellen. Leda wore a white silk, with an enveloping misty vail and a snowy orange 'wreath. She was pure and beautiful in her bridal vestments. He heart had been tried by affliction, by time and by absence, and the gold of affection given to Paul was genuine. As Mr. Howard met his spotless bride at the door, just before going to the ceremony, he clasped an elegant diamond necklace and bracelets around her throat and wrists, "May I not say farewell to Mrs. de Coy as well as, her other friends?" and putting his arm around her, he kissed her rosy lips, and they entered the parlor. Mr. Snowden pro- nounced the magic words which bound Leda to the man who evoked the full fruition of her love, and every heart present inwardly prayed that her life might be one long spring time of joy. On the morning after this happy event, as the dawn began to redden the east, the weekly steamer arrived at its moorings, and discharged its freight and its passengers. Among the latter was a weather-worn sailor, evidently a stranger. He neither spoke to any one nor sought lodgings, but sat idly upon his trunk, watching the sparse crowd disperse. One by one they departed, and the seamen was left in solitude with no sound save that which came from the ceaseless ripple of the restless tide dashing against the wharf. Long the man sat, his face bowed in his palms. Suddenly looking up, he glanced around, saying, "Time has made few changes. Twenty years ago, (ah I hopes were bright as a summer's day then 1) I left this quay looking much the same as now. In this time I have felt the breezes of every clime-from the sultry air of the perfumed Spice Islands to the icy blasts from the frozen regions of the Arctic Ocean-in search of whom? The foul fiend who ruined my own and my sister's happiness. Fruitless effort I Ever in pursuit-often almost within reach- yet, like the ignis fatuus, he always escaped, and my just vengeance was baffled. Weary- tired of roving-I shall seek Bab, and end my days in cheering her." "Hallo there!" said a fisherman, darting round from under the wharf, in a graceful canoe. "Talking to yourself man, before   daylight? Why, you must have lost your wits!" "I believe I well nigh have," replied the tar, " but I am a stranger in these parts, and keep my own company. Is there a lady re- siding here called Barbara Snubb i" "Yes," said the fisher. "She is living and well." "Tell me where her dwelling is. , would seek her." "She lives with Mrs. Elson, awidow lady. If you go straight up this street,a rJ: turn to the left at the .hird corner from here, you will see at some 4 istance a, white house 'of larger size than those near it. That is the place," "Thank you!" said the sailor; and the fish- -erman shoved out his shallop with a slender oar into deeper water, merrily singing as he dipped the propeller into the water. 'The stranger rose, stretched himself with a hearty yawn, and walked -about the deserted wharf. "Too soon to call at any house and arouse the inmates. In getting to be a land- lubber, I must resume manners which I thought I had long ago thrown into the sea. Tiresome business, waiting here, to be eaten up by sand flies!" * Going back to the trunk, he curled his short square form upon it, and taking his arm for a pillow, he endeavored to sleep, but thought was too busy, and the gnats too troublesome. After fighting them for some time, he bethought him of the expedient of lighting his pipe to i make a smoke which drove away the flies. Near nine o'clock, he shouldered his trunk, and i calling at a store, placed it there for safety, then walked forward in the direction given by the fisherman. Reaching the crossing, he turned, and was within one house of Mrs. Elson's. when a man v was seen sauntering along with a fishing rod on c his shoulder.        f   r As he approached almost to the sailor, a sav- v age gleam shot across the face of the latter. b Instantly drawing a revolver, the sailor ex- t; claimed:                 v Ha i villain-destroyer of my sister's peace a and my own happiness I I have sought you for twenty years over the world. At last vengeance d is mine. Draw, base coward, and defend your- self!" The fisherman's face blanched. He drew his pistol, and threw both hands down beside g him, skaying, "fire!" Scarcely had the words w escaped him when the sharp report of a shot sounded loudly, and the tall man fell, the crim- er   lr son blood from his breast reddening his cloth- ing. e  "Her wrongs are cruelly avenged, Jeremy d Snubb," said the wounded man. '"She is pure A- ail unsullied. I only trifled with her affec- tions. Take me to the witch's hut." d  The report of the pistol had caused parties to collect, and the disabled man Was borne to the i house of Polydora. Leda and her husband were walking on the piazza when their atten- tion were attracted by the sound of fire-arms. ) Seaing the crowd gather, Paul said, "I fear I some accident has occurred. Go in, darling, rand I will investigate it." Leda entered the house and awaited Paul's ^ return with impatience. She went into her r mother's room, where she found Miss Bab and Mrs. Ravenel, who inquired what was the cause of the shooting. L 'I do not know. Mr. Howard went to in- quire about-it. He has been absent for some- time, and I hope he will be here soon." Paul returned ere long, and knocking, enter- ed Mrs. Elson's room. "What is the matter, Paul," asked his mother. "Leda said you had gone to investi- gate the cause of the shooting." "I did go, and a man named Reginald Courcy has been shot, I fear mortally." "Great God!" exclaimed Mrs. Elson. "My poor brother!" while Miss Bab uttered a piercing shriek, and Mrs. Ravenel's face blanched white as cotton. Leda looked from one to the other, and see- ing no light, she put her hand in Paul's, saying, "Tell me, who is he?" And Paul replied, "Our mysterious friend, or evil genius rather." Again Leda turned to her mother with a be- wildered look, to ask an explanation, when she observed the blood flowing from her mouth. With a frightened exclamation, she sprang for- ward and raised her up. While remedies were being applied to stop the hemorrhage which the sudden and awful news had caused, a ser- vant brought a note. Paul took it and read aloud as follows. "Again, Catherine, I summon you to my death-bed. Come: my life is fast ebbing. REGINALD COURCY." The invalid spoke in feeble tones, saying, "Bab, you and Eliza, and the children, must go. Tell h1im I am on my own death-bed. We will meet on the other side of the icy Jordon." Leda declared she could not leave her moth- er, and Dr. Kelton having been summoned,     she continued to apply remedies to stop the flow of blood." "Go, some of you, for God's sake!" again pleaded Mrs. Elson, solemnly. "I cannot last long, and I would have you smooth his dying pillow." Miss Bab and Mrs. Ravenel left with Paul, while Leda remained near her mother in an agony of alarm at the doctor's long delay. Polydora's cabin was some distance away, but the agitated party walked rapidly, and en- tered where nothing but poverty and wretched- ness greeted them. Upon a low bed lay Reginald Courcy, his garments all brightly crimsoned in blood, his face pale to a bluish transparency. The clammy, waxy fingers were clenched together over the breast, but the countenance wore its wonted, fierce, harsh ex- pression, rendered more apparent by pain and the horrors of a consciousness of approaching dissolution. 4 Ah, Catherine, at last- you have come!" he said, as Mrs. Ravenel neared the bed." "Your sister sent me and Bab Snubb to serve you. She is dying, also."' "Eliza Ravenel, do you and Barbara come as qccusing spirits to goad me on to the dark hour? Leave me. You I have injured! But- Catherine -she ever had lenience for my faults!" "We come to speak words of comfort to you," said Miss' Bab; "to aid'you in her stead." "For me there can be no peace. Right here the fires of Eblis burn more fiercely than those of the red hot tombs in the city of Dis," he said, feebly, pressing his hands on his bleeding breast. "Oh cousin Reginald!" said Mrs. Ravenel, "do not speak thus! There may be yet time to turn to the Comforter, and he will ease you of all sin." "No; too late. My wretched soul must pay  the penalty of damnable deeds done in the body. Already I see the sightless gulf,' and hear the terrible groans of the lost souls, and their hoarse wails of despair." "Oh horrible " exclaimed Mrs. Ravenel, "God is merciful and powerful to save." "No. Cease thy cantings. My breath is going fast. I would say one thing while I have time. Bab, in a life of villainy I regret noth- ing but my falsehood to you. You have been deeply avenged. It was this contrition, and a weariness at the burden of life, which kept me from defending myself when your brother shot. \   When I am gone, if you forgive the wretch who poisoned your existence, take care of Poly- -dora." He ceased speaking, for a time almost breath- less, the working of the muscles of the face alone showing suffering. The ladies and Paul stood motionless in the awfulness of a hopeless desire to save a wretched being, and the uncer- tainty what course to take. Again the sufferer spoke, but only to utter curses and impreca- tions at his agony, mingled with a desire for speedy death.. Then came ravings at the ex- pected tortures awaiting the damned. Polydora, who bad crouched a silent specta- tor during this scene, now began a low chant, her roving eyes gleaming fiercely as she rocked to and fro in. her unearthly song. Suddenly the sufferer glared intently as if at some object over him, and asked, "Has night come so soon? Light the lamp, Polydora." Polydora sprang forward and bent her glaring eye-balls over the expiring man, and Miss Bab covered her eyes in horror, knowing from his loss of vision that the moment of dissolution was at hand. The flowing autumnal sunlight streamed through a crevice of the cabin on the pallid face of the out-cast as, in the tnidst of an imprecation, with one gasp he yielded up his sin-stained spirit. Paul led Miss Bab and his mother from the sickening sight, and returned to bave prepara- tions made for the interment of the body, which was done quietly the next day. Reginald and Catherine Courcy were the off- spring of wealthy parents, and had been brought up with every refinement and all the cultivation wealth could yield. Reginald being the eldest, and ah only son, was humoredin all things. He possessed grent versatility of mind, but was intractable, naturally, and accustomed to noJself-restraint, his passions took control. Virtue struggles with vice in the breast of man like sunshine with clouds after days of storm and rain. Sometimes, like the god of day, it conquers and shines resplendent, tinting every act with golden glory, but more often is it en- veloped in black clouds of doubt and gloom. So was it lost to the heart of Reginald Courcy. Handsome and fascinating, he became the spoiled darling of all his female acquaintances. Mr. Snubb, the father of Miss Barbara, was very wealthy, and a near neighbor to the Courcy family. Out of a large number of children only two survived infancy. Miss Bab was good looking, and Reginald, attracted by her money, won her heart, without losing his own, and be-   come engaged to her. He had carried on a flirtation, and had been a devoted admirer of his cousin, Eliza 'Brewsey, whose affections he had gained. She, disappointed in her hopes, bestowed her hand on Mr. Ravenel, a dissi- pated, dashing young man, who died not many years after the marriage, leaving two children, Blanche and Paul. By some unfortunate spec- ulation, Mr. Snubb lost the bulk of his fortune, which Reginald discovered, while preparations were in progress for his. union with Barbara. Unwilling to marry a poor girl, he absconded with a pretty little school-mate of his sister, whom he erroneously supposed owned a for- tune. This young lady' was the affianced of Jeremy Snubb, but the superior grace and ele- gance of Reginald took captive her fickle heart, and she, forgot her vows of constancy to her absent betrothed. Her faithlessness was fully repaid by her false husband, who neglected and ill-treated her until she died of a broken heart soon afterward. Mrs. Courcy, always a delicate person, was so deeply distressed by her son's career that it caused hemorrhage of the )ungs, of which she died In a few weeks. He, depraved as he wasp not yet wholly deaf to every feeling of virtue, felt so much remorse for causing his mother'  death, that he plunged deeper into vice, and i in a delirious search for relief, he drank to I satiety of all the waters of dissipation. When E heated with wine at the gaming table, he had ( stabbed his opponent to the heart. A fugitive.  from justice, he traveled in Europe for years, and returned to lurk around Brunswick in the obscure hut of the wicked Polydora. Jeremy. Snubb, a reckless desperado, with no partiality for Reginald Courcy, returned r home to find his sister deserted and his expect- s ed wife gone. He swore eternal vengeance, 1 which some of Reginald's enemies took care r to fan into a continued flame by hinting that I Miss Bab's fair name had been injured by Mr. s Courcy. Reginald could not be found, and Jeremy Snubb became a sailor, with the deter- g mination to traverse the world in pursuit of the s betrayer. Often had the two been in proximi-  ty, but by some means they never met until the c fatal morning which brought death to the M wretched Reginald.            a Mrs. Ravenel never spoke to her children of a her cousins. The subject brought up a mortify- a ing episode in her life that she wished to forget. Leda remained anxiously beside her mother E until the doctor came and prescribed remedies i for her. The shock of Mr. Courcy's death pre- s.   L cipitated her into the hemorrhage that presaged f speedy dissolution. On the return of Mrs. L Ravenel and Miss Bab from the frightful death scene they had witnessed, they wished to re- lieve Leda from her vigils, but she remained where she was, insisting that they should take some repose. This they consented to do, if they were allowed to aid in sitting up during the night. After tea, Miss Bab took her post as nurse, promising to notify the family if any change occurred in, the invalid. The terrors of the day, and the anxiety for her friend drove sleep from her eyes. Time wore on until the hands of the clock pointed to one. All was silent ex- cept the monotonous ticking of the time-piece. Mrs. Elson lay in a slumber induced by opiates, and Miss Bab sat near the dying embers of a fire on the hearth. The terrors of the day, the sorrow for her fast expiring friend, the remem- brance that the wounded man had accused her brother of being his slayer, and uncertainty re- garding his fate, all wrought her nerves and imagination to the highest tension, and intensi- fying the acuteness of all her senses, she could hear distinctly the painful throbbings of her heart keeping pace with the clicking clock. Just then she fancied the noise of a light tap on the window. Miss' Bab was at all times a little superstitious, and some of the same sen- sations held sway over her as those felt by Poe on that " midnight dreary " of the "bleak De- cember," when "Each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor." She listened attentively. The busy clock hurried its ceaseless beat. Each swing of the noisy pendulum 'sounded like a destroying stroke of the scythe of Time cutting down the harvest field of idols in our hearts, whether ripened and ready for the Destroyer or not. The dead minutes fell rapidly, and lay like slain soldiers to rise no more. Again a low rap sounded, and the old maid glanced timidly around. Nothing was visible, save the white bed with its attenuated inmate, whose shrouded form looked as if already clothed in the habiliments of the tomb. The windows were closed, and no one could gain admittance. Striving to compose herself, and arouse her courage, she turned back to the fire and took a book from the table near her. This time a most decided rap came. Miss Bab rose and walked to the window. Muster- ing all the resolution she was mistress of, she said to herself-     "I must see what this is, or Kate will be awakened. There are no robbers in iBruns- wiek, and if there were, they would not rap. It may be some servant, with some important message from a neighbor, who does not wish to disturb the sufferer." Softly she raised the window, and asked in a low tone who was there. ";I wish to see Miss Snubb," said a voice; at the same time the form of a man emerged from the shadow into the dim light of a cloud- obscured, waning moon. "Who are you? I am the person you wish to meet." "I am your brother. Let me in quickly. I am a fugitive from what the world falsely calls justice." Miss Bab closed the window, and opened noiselessly the door, which she again bolted after admitting her brother. Showing him in- to the parlor, she procured a candle and re- turned to him. "I have come, Bab. I had hoped to end my days with you; but circumstances render it imperative that I should bestow greetings and adieus together." As she recalled the words of the dying Regi- nald, that her brother's hand had taken his life, she recoiled a few steps in horror, say- ing "Alas! that I should live to know that my brother is a murderer." "Say, the avenger of thy wrongs, woman I It is the nature of your sex to sympathize with the wrong and condemn the right." "'Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord,'" uttered Miss Babf solemnly and distinctly. "I have pursued my victim for twenty long years, because I was told that he had fixed a blot on your fair name. In his last moments, he assured me your honor was unsullied. The basest speak truth with grim death staring them in the face." ' It is awful to send a sin-stained soul unre- deemed to the bar of God I Why did you not seek me first, and learn the truth, rash man, ere your hands were reddened with the blood of a fellow-being?" "Ayel say two; for I have this night sent another to his long home for attempting to arrest me for the execution of this righteous judgment." "Let not vain man take upon himself the province of the Creator. Thou canst not give life, and thou shouldst not take it." "Cease, Bab. I am not fond of sermons,   and like, least of all, women preachers. I would speak of things practical. My time is brief. Have no fears. Though I see you for the-last time upon earth, I will be safe. I. shall again seek my home on the restless deep, now my favorite element. I left my trunk at a store near the wharf. Get it. There are some presents for you, and some money. Use the latter. The clothing of mine lay away. If I should need it; I will write you; or, I may, in the changing future, come back, as years roll on. Adieul and may God bless you, my sister!" He took her hand, wrung it hastily, dashed something like a tear'from his eye, and left. Miss Bab went back to the sick room. The hour was three. Mrs. Elson still slumbered. Miss Bab almost noiselessly stirred the fire, added more fuel, adjusted the light, and took her seat. Events were weaving around her new net-work of fate with unwonted rapidity, and her spirit shrank appalled and trembling from each future minute as it came from the dread abyss of the Future. Sitting still brought, after a time, a reaction, and she fell into a doze, from which she was awaked by Mrs. El- son's faint voice. "Bab, do you hear music? Oh, how sweet- ly it sounds!" "No, Kate; I hear nothing. All is still to oppressiveness. It must be the effect of opi- um, or a pleasant dream." "Perhaps so; but I thought I heard a harp, and its gentle tones soothed my pain. Is it late?" "It is almost morning-near four o'clock," said Miss Bab, going to the mantel-piece ; and, returning, she passed her hand over the soft brow of her friend. Mrs. Elson closed her eyes, and Miss Bab thought she rested for some time. After awhile, she opened them and said-- "Hear it I Oh, it is beautiful I Bab, I am going home! I It is a foretaste of heaven!" And a brilliant light gleamed in her radiant eyes. "I see the white-robed saints with their palm branches, around the Throne, and the angel choristers sound their everlasting harps in melody to the praises of the Most High. Oh, Bab, pray that I shall be accounted one of them! 'The Lord is my Shepherd: I shall not want!'" And she clasped her thin fingers in raptures. "Bab, call my children! I shall die as the sun sheds his lustre once more on this sorrow- ful world. I would see Mr. Snowden again.   He promised to be with me in this joyous hour when I shall go to dwell forever with my Mas- ter.  Miss Bab left the room, and, caLing a ser- vant in the next chamber, she summoned Mrs. Ravenel, Paul,. Leda, and Edward. Ere long they entered, and gathered around the dying saint. - "Oh, I am so happy! There is anl efful- gence of glory luring me on. Children, friends, meet me in that haven whose pilot is Christ, where there is no more parting! Eliza, Leda, you are professed Christians: keep your lanps burning! 'And Paul, to you and Edward I say, enlist under the Banner of the Cross-it is a sure defense against all troubles. Poor Bab I "-giving her hand to her weeping, life- long friend-" when I am gone, you will be all alone; but I will expect you ere long to join me and be at rest." Her breath growing short, she ceased speak- ing. Seeing Leda weep, she said- t Jesus wept at the tomb of Lazarus 5 but think not of this parting. Dwell on the glo)- ries of the resurrection I Paul, 'chlerish my children as you would great treasures! It is my last trust to you." I Mr. Snowden came   about daylight, and, 'kneeling beside the bed in the midst of this sorrowing family, he prayed for the departing soul, and for the bereaved friends, that at last t they might' all reunite inl the Paradise prepared : for the blessed.  At Mrs. Elson's request, hle  repeated suitable passages of Scripture, and ] they sang "I would not live alway."  As the  sun rose, she closed her eyes for a moment;  then, opening them, she said feebly, "Even so, Father, thy will be done," and expired. t Miss Bab closed the eyes of the dead, and t Paul lifted his fainting bride and bore hler to her own apartment.              1 The funeral was largely attended. 'Mrs. El- son had been a   charitable Christian through I life, and there were many to rise up and call her blessed in this hour when tine knew her y no more. Leda was too much crushed by the i' aggreagation of afflictions to leave her room c for many days; and sleep was produced only a by the administration of powerful anodynes. t] Paul, naturally of an anxious temperament, d felt agonized for-fear that he would lose his fra in gile flower.' He  determined to remove her g speedily from a locality so overfraught with  mournful memories.   le purchased the fine re residence formerly owned by Mr. Staunton, p and had a   deed drawn bestowing it on Mr. tc   r Snowden. On Miss Bab he settled an annuity, s- which, added to the money found in her bro- thler's trunk, and the bag of gold left her by - Reginald Courcyi which Polydora sent her, s. made a little fortune to her. Paul was desir- g ous of taking Miss Bab to Europe with his S family, but she refused, saying she still had a mission to attempt the conversion of the witch, - and to watch the graves of the beloved dead, w here she hoped soon to place her weary ; form. 7  Blanche would join her brother in Charles- s ton, and accompany him to Europe. I  "Leda," said Paul, as he sat beside her, t toying with her hand, "you must forget your grief, or I shall sodn have no beautiful wife to - love me. Darling, have you nothingto live for?" "Yes," she said, putting her arm around his neck. "My beloved husband, I will re- sume my cheerfulness for your sake. Here everything speaks of the dead amid of the past. Take me hence." "I will, my precious wife," he replied, kiss- ing her fondly.  "We must leave Brunswick in a week. Here are some little gifts for you to present your friends." And he handed her a large wax doll, ind its trunk full of clothing, for Ellen Snowden. Two brooches, -with Mrs. Elson's hair set in them, were for Miss Bab and Mrs. Snowden; and an elegant Family Bible, with the name engraved on its golden clasp, for the beloved pastor, one of the few shining lights who take Christ as a prototype in their earthly pilgrim- age. "Thank you; dear Paul. How kind!" and the wife's eyes filled with tears at this delicate thoughtfulness. "Have you no wish to learn how 4I came to bear the name of Howard, Leda?" "It is unimportant. I suppose your mother had been twice married.'" "No.  My   grandfather sent me, when ;a youthl, to Europe, to indulge my taste for paint- inlg, antd perfect myself in the art. I had ac- cidentally met an Englishman, named How- ard, some years before, who was traveling in e this country for pleasure. Stress of weather drove himn to seek shelter at our house. Dur- ing his stay, hle saw my poor drawings, and gave me   the only encouragement I had ever had beyond that of a  no6ble mother. On his return to his native land, hle sent me an elegant paint-box. I  was sent to his care when I went to England.  He was a glorious specimen of a     man-more than a father to me I He had been married, and lost his wife, and an only son whom he said I resembled. Dearest, 1 never could appreciate his life-long sorrow for his loved and lost until I have watched your pale face, and listened to your rapid breath- ing while qill, all these dreary days. I visited Rome to remain a considerable time and learn my profession. While there, Mr. Howard died, bequeathing me his immense fortune of several millionsaand his name. My Leda, how could you marry a poor painter?" "Because I loved him." "And I shall spend my days in endeavor- ing to reward you for your disinterested love." Bessie Talbot met Dick Larkin, who dressed well, made manyfgentlemanly pretensions, and affected great wealth. Her widowed heart was not slow to bloom again under the genial warmth of so many attractions, and she ran away with Larkin. Mrs. Slugg was left alone   in her old age, in utter poverty, and died not long afterward, from wretchedness and want. The day before Mr. Howard left Brunswick, he walked with Leda to the cemetery, to take a farewell of the dead. Leda's heart was full. She spoke not; but inwardly she prayed that her end might be like her mother's. They called on Mr. Snowden. Paul handed him some papers, to examine at a future time, after they had sailed for England. Leda be- stowed her little keepsakes, which were re- ceived with moistened eyes by all. Even, lit- tle Ellen wept to know that " dear Miss Leda" was going far away across the wide ocean. The day of departure at length dawned; and Paul, with his wife, his mother, and Edward Elson, bade -adieu to their friends and to the land of their nativity. The tearful gaze of friends, and heartfelt blessings and prayers, fol- lowed the swift steamer, as it rapidly ploughed its way down the foamy waters of the broad bay, and disappeared from sight.   FINIS.     
         
      
   
