
    ----CITATION----
        Herrington, William D., (b. ca. 1841). The Deserter's Daughter .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6713
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The deserter's daughter 
            
               THE
DESERTER'S DAULGIITER.

BY

S

W. D.. HERRINGTON, 3i N C. CAv.,
ATJTIJOR 03.
"The Captain's Bride,"  The Refugee's liece," eto.
Southern Field and Fireside Novelette, No. 3,
NJ3k VY SERLi

*

RALEIGH :

WM. B.

SMITH &amp;'00.
1865.

e

.F

.  ,. .. . +

I

e

ti'  --         ,
? '                  _


s-

. Entered: according to act of Co  ress in the year 1864, by
,   WM. B. SMITH       &amp; CO.,       .
in the lerk's Office of the District Court of the Confederate
States for the Dist iot of Pamlice of Nerth Carolina..

9'

AI

'
_  - -
ti
s          s .

0
THE
DESERTER'S DAUGHTER.
CHAPTER I.
« This has been a day of events to me and I shall not
soon forget it."
Thus spoke. Captain Forrester, alighting from his horse
in front of his tent, and addressing his first.Lieutenant,
who, in company with several of the men, were seated
around a camp fire passingoff the evening in jovial con-
versation.
" Any thing new on the picket lines, Captain," asked
the Lieutenant anxiously.
"No excitement there, I believe but"-
'.'Why then will you remember to-day so especially ?
Another adventure I guess ?"
"No not an adventure ; but an escape."
"From the widow's bewitching eyes," answered the
r Lieutenant jestingly. .
".Don't be jealous, Lieutenant," said the Captain fore.
ing a smile.
But the want of life evinced by Capt. Forrester, in thus
turning what he knew to be a. very important matter into
a joke, was instantly made quite evident to. Lieutenant
Hart.
"Have a non-commissioned officer and twelve men de..
tailed immediately, Lieutenant, aid order them to am-
bush tkemselres at the secondmile post beyond the vidette
at the fork of the road. There they will find a blind foot
path leading off to the right exactly at the Wle-.post That

r
.  f
'  {
_.
-a
T
d
f}
t -
,

r'


,4

path I desire to have strictly watched. Instruct them to
keep well concealed to'arrest every one that endeavors to
pass and bring them to me, and to continue there until
further orders." Finishing these instr.uctiQns he turned
away and ordered his cook . to " prepare dinner in five
minutes."
"The Qaptain's excited," said one of the men at the
fire. '
" There's something wrong as sure as twice one make
four," answered Charlie M.
This lapsus lingua, or the wrong answer to the, wrong
". sum, caused, a general outburst of laughter, and Charlie
in ridicule was ordered'by all present, to go imnniiediately
and call on the widow that she might teach him mathe-
datics.
"-Hur:y off the cletail, Lieutenant," ordered the Cap-
tain as he seated himself at his mess-chest to eat his has-
tily prepared meal.
"Saddle up !" s outed the non-coinnissioned officer,
and in a few minutes the detail was making its way to
the place designated.
It was now growing dark and the sombre clouds boiling
up from the noi'theast and spreading over the horizen
gave ominous signs of a snow storm, while' a boisterous
wind shrieked and howled amid the towering forest pine
tops. The camp-fires of Captain Forrester's squadTon
blazing brightly, and the men that were not immediately
on duty were quietly seated around them, waiting for
their "turns" to go.
At headquarters things were exceedingly quiet.' Alone
Capt. Forrester ind Lieutenant Hart might be seen by
the light of their fires seated in dreamy silence-the Lieu-
- '    tenant in wonder, while the Captain was evidently en-
gaged in deep thought ; and from the oftei voluntary
contracting of his' dark brow the path of duty'over which
these thoughts were then meandering were beset with

many unpleasant obstacles. But 'at last, as though to
break the suspense that he knew must be passing through
the 'Lieutenant's mind, he said, "to-day, Lieutenant., I
have ome in possession of positive information that there
is in our -midst a secret league, composed of our own fel-
low-citizens, (but I am glad to say that the league is
small) whose avowed intention it is to thwart our designs,
who have a regular means of communication that conveys
information to the enemy with the greatest dispatch, whio
carry on a nefarious contraband traffic, 'and who are en-
deavoring to induce our fellow soldiers to desert their
country's flag. If this .disaffection is not crushed in its
infancy it bids fair to weaken, if not destroy, the cause in
North Carolina. This is perfectly reliable information,
from a responsible source ; but, 'by the wxay, came near
costing me my life to-day ;" and opening the breast of
his coat he displayed the trace of'a rifle' bullet that just
missed his body at the heigth of his heart.
"This, too, was the work of what was once a lady
but '-hesitating he buried his forehead in his hands.
"Is it possible !" asked the Lieutenant in surprise.
"But before to-inorrows's sun Heaven may favor us
with some cue to this dark plot, and if so I shall go im-
mediately to work heart and. hand to bring those black
hearted villians to summary justice, and rid our mother
State of the stigma that their conduct is already bringing
upon her fair name."
" You will need assistance, Captain, in this matter,
and remember that I am anxious t' be your abettor."
"Yes, I am aware that it will be a hazardous under-
taking, and to be successful will require nerve, energy
and perseverance' I know of no one on whom I can more
confidently rely than yourself in this matter, and I shallr
expect your assistance." Rising from his seat he extend-
ed his hand to the Lieuten'ant, who grasping it said,
w      ' I

t
r

.,
, .
. _'
.   .  ', -  : s


"Here I suppose, Captain Forrester, we mutualy resolve
to succeed or perish."
"That's the determination," was the response.

*HAPTER II.
"Nothing has been heard from. the detail I suppose,
Lieutenant?'.' asked the Captain early on The next morn-
ing.                                         4
" Nothing except what has just been brought in by the
relieved picl~ts.. They report that firing was heard be-
low about day-break."
"Order a man to saddle his horse and report to me,"
said the Captain. "But hold," I see a man riding in.
camp now.
"It's one of the detail," answered the Lieutenant9
"and, strange to say, 'he has a little girl on the horse
with him."
"A little girl! ha, thus Heaven has crowned this enter-
prise with success.
Captain Forrester, followed by Lieutenant Hart, walked
in the tent as the horseman rode up in front.
"Captain," said he, lifting the little girl from his
horse, "I have come to bring this little girl whom we
caught this morning, acompanied by some one, endeav-

7

oring to pass through our ambuscade. Her escort made
his escape, after we had fired on him several times. She
will give us no information."
"Come here tome," said the Captain, putting on an
austere frown and addressing the little miss who had as-
sumed a look of perfect resignation. This abrupt order
caused a little agitation, however, in her features, but,
placing the nail of her left fore finger between her teeth,
she promptly obeyed the order as the Captain turned
away to complete his toilet, which he had not quite fin-
ished.
"Take a seat on the bed here, sissy. Ain't you cold ?"
asked the Lieutenant.
"No sir !" answered a low voice.
The Captain, somewhat attracted by the soft musical
voice, turned his eyes upon the beautiful- features of the
blue-eyed neat little maiden and asked,
"Whose little girl are you?"
She hesitated in perplexity.
"I am nobody's little girl."
"What is your name
"Lula.
"Lula-what else ?" asked the Captain.
"Nothing else ?"
"What is your father's name ?"
She refused to answer.
"Where is your home?"
"I hav'nt got any home."
"Where is your mother ?"
"I have no mother now," she answered3 while the
tears chased each other down her plump cheeks.
"You are a singular little being," said the Captain..-
"You belong to nobody. You have no home nor mother
and named nothing but Lula."
"Where is your father?. Come, you must answer rae.'
eI don't know sir.'

a
"kt,

s

"


8
"tHave you no brothers and sisters ?"
"Yes sir, I have two brothers and one sister. '
"Where are they ?"
"I don't Jno.w sir."
"A4nd what's your sister's name
"Julia."
"Nothing but Julia of course," said the Captain iron-
ically.
"Is she grown?"
"Yes sir."'.
"What is your age?"
"Ten," she answered.
"Ten," said the Captain.
"You know a great deal more than you have told."-
He made a feint as though to draw this sabre from its
scabbard, hoping thereby to intimidate her. She caught
the movemeint, and, throwing herself into Lieutenant
Hart's arms, she shrieked, "oh, Lieutenant, don't let'
him kill me." "
" He will not hurt you if you will tell us why you were
passing our men this morning, and who was with you.",
"I was sent," she said, "and couldn't help it. Oh !
if you please don't makeine tell any more."
"Don't be rash-with her, Captain."-*
"She must be sent to the General," said the Captain,
"I'll swear, by Eternoal Heaven, to wreak vengeance
upon the heads of those villians yet." -
Captain Forrester was a young Confederate officer of
much promise   No one yaw him but to love him. His
manly form, his frank, open countenance, his fierce black
eyes, his generous heart, and inflexible determinatioU won
the admiration even of his enemies. ''
An enemy to him, however, was an enemy, and he hated
him with all the bitterness and venom that the depths of
his soul could foster, while he loved his friends with' that
interesting .devotion that ever characterises the faithful

"
i

heart. The cause of his country was dearer to him thai
even life itself; and hae respected no one that did not
cherish a. like devotion.                         .
When Captain Forrester was convinced thata plan was
really set on foot in his native state to break down the
eause in which he himself was. struggling, and in which
he had seen so many of his comrades and even a cherish-
ed brother sacrifice,-their .lives, it aroused every nerve in
his form to energy. Then the rews through )ris picket
lines to the enemy awakened him to a vigilant seuse of
his duty;
In Lieutenant Hart he found'a genial companion. One
whose motto was ever to do or die, One who loved ad-
- venture with a veteran hunter's devotion. One who never
shrank from any duty except where his finer sentiments
were compromised. Never,'therefore, could the disaffect-
. ed mob of North Carolinians havd had two more deter-
mined foemen watching them than'these two who before
a camp-fire "mutually resolved to crush them or die."
"Lieutenant," said he after musing for a few moments,
"we are now fairly on the track of those traitorous rene-
gades whose headquarters, (if we may honor their den by
this appellation,) I have every reason to believe, is-not far
distant from this place in the wilds of Dover Swamp.' To
detect and defeat them now only requires a little cunning
courage and energetic action."
"What course ought we now to pursue? or what are
your plans ?"
"We must first find out their base of operations. This
movement must be definitely -understood.; they must be
betrayed by strategy, and then we must crush them at
orle blow. Of course we cannot commence au open cam-
paign against them in their dens in Dover Swamp. So
secrecy on our part.willbe the ground work of success."
"I am well acquainted with all of this country, Cap-
tain, and I offer you my services as a scout."

9

'  i, .    +tl
"a
i


10

"I suggest, then, that you. take with you three day's
cooked rations and set out this evening. I am sure that
the foot path at which our gnen are now ambushed is a
cominunication to their headquarters. Take that path,
and find to what mystical rendezvous or hover it leads,
and what dark deeds of treachery it witnesses. Cauion
must be your watchword ; and let me advise you to keep
your eyes open and have no confidants. Order your de-
tail to camp."
This plan was adopted and Lieutenant Hart was dis-
patched as a seout and IJetective.

f   1

CHAPTER III..
" The widow gives us another ball to-night," said.-
Charlie M---as he walked hurriedly in camp and ad-
dressed a number of his comrades who had seated them--
selves upon the pine straw and were very diligently watch-
ing two of their number who were deeply interested in a
contest at che'cks,-                    -
"Not to us," answered one of the men, "Charlie, bit
to you."

"0 he !: the invitation is extended to as many of the
squadron as are disposed to go. You must go, boys. We
shall have splendid mnsie. 'Furthermore, there is to be
some new ladies there. The widow, says they are beau-
tiful."
"Where are they to come from ?" was asked.
"They are to run the blockade of our pickets to-night
after dark, accompanied by Edgar and Austin. But this
must not be made knbwn to Captain Forrester !"
. "It will be a hazardous undertaking; and, further-
more, it is acting in bad faith to the service. How are
they to return ?"
"I reckon the Captain will grant them a pass in the
morning to return," answered Charlie.
"You are mistaken, Charlie ; orders have just been is-
sued that no one shall pass the lines without written per-
mission from the General."
"Never mind, boys, the matter is all fixed with the
Captain, and-will all tirn out right," and Charlie turned
away and walked to another portion of the encampment.,
"That boy deserves sympathy," said one of his friends
eyeing him closely as he left.
"Why ?" . sked another.
"Because by subtility that woman has completely en-
trapped him, and is fast leading him astray. I for one
have but little confidence in her."
"I am sure that she has always treated us very kindly,
and, for all I know, she is a perfect lady."
"Very true, but'I do not like the cut of her eye. Fur-
thermore, her husband died in the Yankee service, and
some even doubt his, being dead at all-nevertheless,sI
suppose she is called widow."
"She could not help what her husband did.
" Probablp not."
Three hours afterwards and the merriment at the wid.-
~ow's ball was at its acme.

-

11.

t
r
i

Y                     .44                4"       f  .T.lf 4r      ..f r    fi          -,.
'-"J ^ '.. .4, ..     ^   ~  4y.;e }+t, n.      b+o-i.. ,aa.+e a. ?{.a''           - y'I                                                                           t
. j,,1t,'f-     ,                  "      ';   .


. 12
"The boys were successful," said Charlie to one of his
comirades.
"Not as successful as you right suppose," was the re-
ply.   .
"Why?"
"They evaded the picket and patrol, but were met by
the relief, who have reported it-to the Captain. The
Captain says that he intends to arrest the ladies early in
the morning, aid he has doubled the picket lines to pre-
vent their escape. The Captain has offered a reward to
know the boys that piloted them tl.rough.' The relief
could not recognize them in the dark. Edgar is strongly
+     suspected."
"I know that none of the boys who are knowing to all
the circumstances will betray Edgar and Austin, end I
will make all of these facts known to them immediatelyl"
saying this Charlie called his two friends to one side
and related the circumstances to. them.
"This is very strange conduct on the part of the Cap-
rain, or else 1 have been deceived in the matter," said
Austin, "for-"
" Never mind, boys," interrupted Charlie, '" it will all
be right."
Yes, but if Captain Forrester made this threat he will
carry it into execution unless the ladies are carried back
through the lines before day. And this must be done.
Go,Edgar, and tell them what has.happened. Tell them
that we will take them back at four o'clock, and be ready"
then to start. Tell them, also, that it will be impossible
to.take them back on horse-back, and that they will have
:to walk."-                        .
Edgar did as he was advised and soon returned with
the report that the ladies were very much excited, and
ready to start immediately."
" No," says Austin, "at four o'clock the fifth relief will
take post. We will pass the lines at patrol number one.

x
s
t  F
"  i
p                  ,
i
7
i
4
--
f M° 2  ' t 4'  1ti

'I'

13

At four the patrol' will be expecting the, relief and' will
be standing on post with the picket, and under the cover
of night we can cross his beat."
"And then how ?" asked Edgar.
"We will get into the field at the gate, from whence
there is a smdll path leading into the main read beyond
the last vidette post."
'How.near the pickets do we have to pass ?'
"In rifle shot ; but if we are cautious we shall pass un-
observed.'"
At the hour set apart this plan was put in execution.
As they passed out o.f the field, at which place they were
safely across the picket lines, Austin~exclaimed:
" And now I feel relieved. All danger is now over.,
" Was'nt that the tramp of horses' hoofs'on the road ?"
asked Edgar.
" Be still."
" The enemy ! the enemy !" whispered one of the young
ladies. You had better return to y our command. We
are not afraid now to return home by ourselves."
"We are sorry'that we cannot see you safely home, but '
it is bes-t for us to return," and, extending their hands to
the young ladies, they bid them in- haste good-bye.
" Tell Captain Forrester," whispered oe of the young
ladies, but before she could complete the sentence she was
abruptly interrupted by her companion ; and the two
young men hastened back in the direction of their camps.
When they were passing their picket post they were,
as they had'done before, using great precaution for fear
of being discovered. Edgar halted suddenly and laid his
hand on the shoulder of his companion.
"Hark !" he whispered, " an.advancing footstep ahead.
Lie down."
The form of a man passed them. "He is alone," whis-
pered Austin. As prompted by one common impulse

.
:
k
4


a  14
they sprang to their feet and presented their pistols to the
'truder's head..
The man scared out ef his wits fell upon his knees and,
stammering, said :
"~ I-I-n a aeteezn
"!Not a word from you, sir."                 -
"&amp;Let us search him," said Austin.
"What are you doing here at this hour ?" demanded
Edgar of the affrighted stranger.
"Hun--t-t-t-ing-"
"Around our pickets, I guess. So are we."
"What kind of a dispatch is this you have here ?" said
Austin, extracting a neatly folded paper from the back
lining of the prisoner's coat, which, when it became light,
read as follows:                                  

To        GLIESMO. TUNWT.
The prisoner and his unintelligible
sent to department headquarters.

22d, 186-.
di c  w
dispatch were both

.

CHAPTER IV.
If three days previous had made a lasting impression
upon the mind of Captain Forrester, indeed this was a
day of memorable events to the entire command. The
most important information had been communicated to
the General commandingby this'nerveusspy and his dis-
patch, while the minor deeds of treachery that had been
going on even within the bounds of, Captain Forrester's
camps began to unfold themselves before his eyes.
The day commenced~with a demonstration by the enemy
upon the picket lines. The pickets were everywhere
driven back upon the reserve, when, to maintain their
position, a most desperate skirmish took place, which,
though it resulted in completely routing the insolent foe,
yet many of our bravest boys had fallen. Among those
were Edgar'and Austin, who, while feeling the trength
i the enemy's.line of battle in the first part of the en-
gagernent, were shot dead, and at a point, too, where no
nemy was suspected.
Hardly had the enemy;disappeared, the line of battle
been broken and the excitement . of the morning passed
away, when LieutenantHartireturned to camp from his
epedition.
This was a new case of excitement, for every one could
see in his tell-tale countenance that~he had brought infor-
matiou of importance.
" What's the news!f what's the news I Lieutenant ?"
asked voice after voice.

i


'0

"I suppose you thrashed the Yankees this morning,"
would be his evasive answer.
He sought Captain Forrester in1 private interview. The
camp was in breathless suspense until broken by-an order
issued by the Captain : "For all of the men to be ready
to march at four o'clock, on foot."
When the men were marched to the field of operation.,
nut one knew where he was, nor what he was to do. They
had marched through the wild woods -for an hour and a
half, and were now halted in the thickest place they had
-   seen. The Captain andLieutenant, who had lead their
horses in the-rear a few moments before halting the men,
had fastened them to trees   .
"The Captain wants to hide us good," said one of the +
men in mimic ridicule.
Ordering the squadron to count off the strength of the
line in an under tone, he divided it into two equal parts.
With the first he formed a parallel line of battle, and,
placing it in charge of Lieutenant Hart, he marched the,
second forty paces, filed it to the right, halted, brought it
to a front in a line corresponding witly the first.
"Now make ready with your pieces, men, lie down and,
await order 4"
In the greatest suspense and anxiety they all prostrated
themselves upon the earth, with their pieces cocked, and
in a position to be discharged -at the command*AFire.
How indiscribable is that ,feeling of impatience that at-
tends the anticipation of a final issue. Every stroke of
the heart seems to say "wait," while it apparently makes
but four vibrations per hour.
"What is to be done ?" would be asked by one of an.
other all the way down the line.
The suspense was one of novelty with the men. . Every
thought would seem to ask its successor, "what's the is-
sue ?"  With Captain Forrester it was different. His sus-

pense was half doubt, intermingled with hopeful antiOi.
pation. He and Lieutenant Hart alone in the-two line'
then'confronting each other, knew that between them16y
a small iut well beaten foot-path. As the last lingering
sun beam took its departure from the tallest forest pine
top,'the man on the left of the first line touched his nea-
est comrade with his elbow. "Look," he whispered, and
nodding his head to the left, he drew his attention to a
detachment-say a hundred'--armed men marching ii
single file, close order. On they marched unsuspecting.
some wore the insignia of the soldier, both blue and gray,
while by far the greeter portion were garbed in the habit
ef the plebeian citizen.
As the head of the ntarehing column passed the riglt
ef the ambuscade, Captain Forrester rose coolly and or-
dered his men " upon their feet."   The men sprang
from their cover, like mad lanther, their guns sprung
and levelled.
" Surrender," he d.emanded in a firm yet animates
voice.
This fell upon their unsuspecting reverie like a thunder
bolt. Some attempted to run, some. threw down their
arms and shouted, "don't shoot."
"Shoot out the brains of the first scoundrel that ak
temptsto escape," ordered Captain Forrester.
"We'll give up," and other tokens of surrender'rang
out all the way down the line.
Arrangements were made for their safe 'escort to the
anmp, when the Captain shouted, "to our horses, Lieu-
tenant, to our horses," and, mounting their restless
chargers, they set off with almost lightning speed down
the foot-path through the dense gloomy forest.  -
The path brought them suddenly to ,n opening at thi
Riouth of a lane. The Captain reined up.
That is it," said the Lieutenant,,pointing to a cottag.-
built farm-house two or three hundred yards in the d-
nze.

I

.

0


18

They drew their pistols from the holsters and, pressing
their rowels to their horses' sides, they made them redou-
ble their exertions. As they neared the gate leading to
the yard, two armed men stepped from behind the gate
posts, and, levelling their guns, fired. Lieutentant Hart
reeled.in his saddle and finally fell from his horse, while
Captain Forrester's horse fell dead in a few paces of the
gate. He caught on his feet, however, and recovered
from the shock of the fall, only to find himself confronted
by the two men, who, with fixed bayonets, had thrown
themselves in the'gate-way to dispute his farther advance.
Raising his pistol he shot one of them dead in his tracks.
The other, seeing the fate of his companion, endeavored
to save himself by flight ; but, ere he made but few steps,
he met a like fate. The Captain.now caught his pistol im
his left, and, drawing 1 lissabre with his right hand, rushed
en still to the house. As he placed his foot upon the door
steps the smoke from a musket almost stifled him, but the
hall missed its mark. .Raising his sabre at a "teirce
point" he thrust it into the bosom of his antagonist, and
bore him struggling .to the floor. Like a tiger roused
from his lair, with the scent of blood, he leaped over the
prostrated body of the eying man and into the passage of
the house. To the left he spied a shut door. With an
elastic bound he threw himself against it and hoisted it
from its hinges. As his ey es met its interior, now shaded
by the soft evening twilight, a woman, with hands ex-
tended towards Heaven and speechless with fear, met him
and knelt at his feet.
Are you," he demanded,    one of the fiends of this
den, to?"         .     '-
She fixed her dark' blue eyes upon the blade crimsoned
with a father's gore, and now raised over her own de-
fenceless head, and in a faint, tremulous voice implored
'him to spare her life.
For a minute he stopped-" arrested in his mad career"

4

-4o view the rounded symmetrical form the beauifii a:
geiic features of the being who now knelt before
ask mercy at his blood-stained hands. When  be hi to
round rising bosom convulbed with Wfear, hehburningtears
streaming over- those now pallid cheks sillfuhe  wtea
maiden lpurty, the dark dishevelled ringlets hansewt
her ivory brow and falling  n       g Qs on hver
snowy neck, his rage was swallowed u in pity,e i th
letic nerves were unstrung and th blupinpity, hsath
fell harmless by his Sidee         OOd-ris     steel
"b Who is this ?" he asked in a i
"Julia," breathed a trembling 1 aisubudtone.
"Who else is concealed in this ho
"No other living soul," sai  h   -       a'
leer hands.,                           m       a   i
"Why such an angel in thi da of ruffians   a
Soothingly and at the same timre len ko  b ,y" said he
laid his hand upon h&amp;r shouhldet.
A feeling of despair seizedua
ever nere inher rameupon her very soul.anad shook
ev    ne. Her heart almost ceased to
beat,                                            dt
" Captain Forresteri '" she  i
He caught the sound of his name upon her quiveerin
breath and it sank to the depths    p of his heart and e
he fountain~ to all that was -pe and hl iearnd sopel.
" I am afreni, Julia, /'   .'d   l    hs
This word seemed a talisman, andiike}   a    -
mercury at zero, itraisedher    tike eat appied to
li    a                       rpag spit to a new
life.
He interrupted hc -   ear not, 'ha,    ouar
'I have been w atched---Ja, yyou are sa
I hae ben wacheda prisoner in this house-.by
my father, my two brother  and their colleagues, dring
which time havee  heard  I     erclegedrg
whic tie, hae hardplans which if executed would
make perdition itself tremble. hily have I prayed would
ight escape and expose it all to you, but the oporti  .
4p                           r 1   +

I,

*1


24

was not offeregl but once and then my plans were all f -s
rated. Had I the opportunity I could tell you more and
slow you in this house some of their plans ; but it is not
safe for you to be here. This night they have plotted,
my father at their head, to'surprise your carnp and mm-.
der you.".
"Thank heaven," answered the Captain, "their daa-
sable plots have all been exploded."
" The enemy, too, often visit this house and may be.
kere to-night."
I cannot leave you here, Julia."
"I will ge to Mr. R-'s if you will permit me, onky
a mile or tyWo distant, and continue there until
"I will accompany you."
At the dbor of Mr. R- he took her hand and bid her
" good-bye !"  Perhaps foreverS

CHAPTER T
The next morning following these tiagieal events was
ese of those calm mornings when winter-is just emerging
into spring, when a placid smile hay be said to be dawn-
ing upon the lips of nature-when each little songster dares
to speak forth an anxious carol in unison with the notes
of the gladdened insects that have been awakened by a
stealing sunbeam. A morning that brings gloom over
dhe despondent and makes the grave;, light-hearted, mirth-
ful-when joy and despair seem to linge; together upon
ihe air:.-
As the sun lifted his sparkling face rbove the low wall
of smoke that belted the surrounding horizon,. all the
gloom in the neighboring atmosphere seemed to concen-
trate and hover over Captain Forrester's camp. It was
indeed a picture of a calm after a storm to a ship-wrecked
crew, who had been rescued from  immediate death, but
doorped to perish by degrees upon a barren and solitary
sock in the immense bosom of the briny deep. Here and
there might be seen one gloomy face, seated undisturbed.
and alone, his mind wandering apparently in the fathom-
less depths of despoudeney: At sone other point: groups,
were assembled as though to mingle and share each others
ennui. The death of a comrade, a mess-mate or afriend
dad tb be commemorated in mutual sympathy.
At headquarters things had been quite astir at an early
hour. During the night couriei-s had been dispatched t®
and returned from  the General Commandiag, with in-'
structions. At sunrise Captain Forrester was walking
back and forth ip front of his tent, his eyes fixed intently
upn the earth and grasping 'tightly his right arma with

V

}
_
t
-
i.
a
1
,
1'


a

s

i

i


22

his left, both.of'which were drawn tightly across hip bo-
som. something haunted him ; and what was it?
Charlije entered the camp hurriedly and sought him. ~
".Captain--," his voice faltered.
"Have you-obeyed my orders, Charlie ?'
' We found it impossible, Captain.''
"Impossible !'' retorted the Captain.
"We found her a corpse.''
A crpse, indeed".-.
"She has Coinntted suicide,'' said Charlie, handing
the Caitain a note                                 -
" She held this note in her han  which is addressed io
you."
The Captain read the note aloud as follows
"I-know, Captain i orrester; before this yiu have been
apprised of m'y Wickedness. I know that es cape is im-
possible, and I have preferred death to-disgrace.
So, Charlie, this widow, wih hw i:om we have all as-
sociated and recognized as a friend, has beei one of the
chief accomplices in getting information to the enemy.--
She has been a spy e en vhwithin the bounds of our camp .
Charlie icoked horrornstricken ; for this widked woman
by her cunning devices, had exerted an influence over
his youthful heart that was fast developing itself in a
deep-seated affection. His ftr lhve was blighted at a
blow. In this note he saw her history at a glnce. How
he had been duped I For a moment lie was moved ; but
how easily can the heart forgive a fatl, even in a worth-
less object of affection?
When Captain E'or." ete had obstarined satisfactory e vi-
deuce of the guilt Oh this woman he knew not of the inti-
- *macy that existed between Oharlie and herselF, and, as
Charlie was one oi his favorites, he was charged with the
execution of the order for her arrest. Charlie could not,
would not, shrink from the duty, but resolved in his heart
to rescue her frQm imprisonment. But with her own

hands she had snow shut herself within the walls of a
prison-house, from which the most desperate lover hae
never attempted to extricate the ideal of his heart. And.
now Charlie retires from the further thread of this story,
if not a better at least a mueh wiser-boy.
But this did not ease the heart and; calm the troubled.
bosom of Captain Forrester. He had been the hero in'
noble enterprise. His whole actions must come before the
eyes of the world for approval or disapproval; but
" Let th e  -it}!d  '='-:t tUa'  mer knew
One tender Iog te geruts nature tru "
condemn him.
Lieutenant Tart, whom we left fallen from his, horse in
the lane near the deserter's house, not killed but severely
wounded in the head, as soon as he recovered from the
shock was placed upon his faithful steed that did pot do-.
sert him; by Captain Forrester, and succeeded in return-
ing to camp, from whence he was sent to the hospital at
Kinston. Little Lula, who had borne herself out nobly
before the General by telling all she knew and probably
a great deal more,-when she heard that Lieutenant Hart
was at the hospital wounded, volunteered her services to
nurse him ; and when a day or two afterwards he was
granted  permission  to be sent home by his regnest
she accompanied him.     Mrs. Hart, the Lieutenant's
mother, is very much interested in her history as related
by herself, and will not consent for her to leave. Little
Lula is very happy now and says the Lieutenant is her
sweet healtt.
The "Cit-t-e-ezin,'' with his vile abetters, have met a
very merited end, that is the end of a rope.
Now let uns return and follow Captain Forrester through
the sequel of his noble project:
Captain Forrester of himself had undertaken a worthy
- purpose, that of bringing a treasonable league of his fel'
low-.ountrymen to the ba'r of justice. How far he had

4

23


Y
F
t
7
(t
I
t .
t
f
f}j
f
}i([
i
a
.-
.
g

eneceeded let results tell. Yes, he had traced it to its
Headquarters and had given it a death-blow. But hadhe
net conte short-of his duty #t .,        .         .
At that headquarters he found a woman, a daughter of
the ring leader.' He, as a military chieftain. was acting
for the cause of his country, regardless of selfish conside-
ration. He ought to have arrested her, but the sympathy
de had elicited .in her behalf had caused him to forego
mat unpleasant ordeal. She was a woman-like hit
mother--like his sister. She might be an enemy-an ac-.
eemplice in the hell-born band that be had crushed. Such
a train of thoughts as these were wrangling in his bosom
this morning. But he saw her still in his mind as he had
seen her in reality-the pure; innocent, blue-eyed Julia-
te "angel in the den of ruffians "-a lily that had
sprung up unfortunately among brambles-the aromatic.
Ettle flower-that seemed destined
-   .     '    *    *   " To blush unseen
And waste its swetuess on the desert air'.':
In these operations he had been General, commander-
in-chief, as well as the war making power.- Might he not
be allowed to exercise his judgment in the entire plan,
regardless of what th'e world night -say in detail; and
hope to be justified by the final results?-
"Surely," he thought, "there can be no treachery in
a heart to which those eyes are the index."-       '
. But the idea haunted him in the farther discharge of
lis duty. ' At the very consummation of his plan he risk-
ed his judgment in an important matter, and might it
mot have beeii modified by tears in the eyes of a beautiful
woman. He stopped in his walk ; some solid henclusion
iad passed through his mind. He said aloud :
"Human nature is deceitful, and woman is an unsolved
mystery. If she las deceived me-if she is an accomplice
of the enemy, now she has neither home nor friends, she
Xll seek his protection.°

1ya
As sooi as a respite from duty wonid permit hire'he r-
safed to satisfy himself by seeing her again. So, iount-
lg his horse, he rede to the house where he had left her.
.he met him at the gate the same warm-hearted Julia ;
nevertheless wearing an expression of sadness in her sym-
pathy-inspirin-g eyes. But she did not meet him as one
who had been the means of throwing her upon the old
. world without a friend to sympathize ora home te shelter
her head, but as her deliverer. 'When he grasped her ex-
tended hand, its warm palm sent a pang of sorrow to his"
keai-t that nothing save restoration to her could ease and
caused a tear to concentrate in his fierce eyes.
" Julia," said he, " I came this  orning that yoi
might tell me of and show me those pans of which you
spoke yesterday
"Come in, Captain."
"Thank you I would be glad to do so, but I must soon
return."
She flitted back into the house and soon returned ready
to accompany him to the house where but the evenifig
previous he had been the hero in so bloody a tragedy.-
They walked on in silence ; for what could he say. She
broke the suspense:
"Captain, Itold you last evening that-I had been hell
- as a prisoner-I told you that I had one opportunity of
communicating to you tl* treason that was going on in
he neighborhood of your commnd. On the night of the
widow's ball my father consented for me, accompanied by
a wicked woman, one of his accomplices, to go with me in
your lines, (she went with the purpose of obtaining infor-
mation.) 1 intended to go to you and expose the whole
affair ; but your threat to arrest us, coupled with, the
knowledge that I'was in bad company, and would be un-
able to exculpate myself' intimidated me, and my planu
were all frustrated."
-" Where is that wonian now ?" asked the Captain.

4

a
a     -
i
f
3
r
i
i '
5
5
t
t
y1'
f
{
T


s ~26Y
"She has escaped to the enemy and will go to New
York, where she has relatives ; and she is, therefore,
gone forever beyond your readh."
Just at-this moment they emerged into a large neigh-
borhood road, one end of which led to a Confederate pick-
et stand and the other through Dover Swamp into the
"lower Neuse road."  Julia stopped suddenly and burst-
ed into tears.
" Captain,'' said she, ' here, a few days 'age, my poor
misguided mother sufferect herself to be placed as a senti-
nel while my father endeavored to surprise and capture
your pickets, was encountered by some one, on whom she
frTed. In the contest she was shot and killed. My father
suspected some of your men and, to retaliate, he tookmy
poor little sister that night and started in your lines with
a phial of arsenic, which she was to deposit in the well
from which you obtained water. Onhis way be was met
by a number of soldiers,. who captured her and fired on
him. I have not heard from him since.'' Overcome by
these thoughts she seated herself upon a fallen tree and
burst into a most violent paroxysm of grief.
Captain Forrester watched her in wonder. and agitation
until his heart grew sick within his bosom. He seated
himself by her side and threw his arm gently around her'
shoulders and drew' her to his bosom.
"CJulia,'' said he, "'will you--''
"Captain Forrester," she'exclaimed, endeavoring to
free herself from his grasp, "would y ou insult a poor girl.
whose heart'is already borne to the earth with sorrow--
whom a father's conduct has (Jisgraced."
"Hear me, Julia-if you can ever love me, hear me.
Since I have deprived you of all that you must have held
.dear on earth-since I have deprived you of friends and
"home-I here offer you my love as remuneration and my
hands to protect you. Say, Julia, that you will be n y
'wife."

a

How could she believe him otherwise than true?  One
look at his face was sufficient to convince har of the purdy
of his heart.
"You do not love me, ai!d if you do I am unworty of
your love."
"If I thought so, Julia, I should surely be unworthy
of yours,"
Leaning with complacent confidence upon the arm that
had slain mother, father and brother, she sighed--- and
a few days afterwards General Picket signed Captain For-
rester's leave of absence for thirty 'days, and he led t
the altar his beautiful- Julia; TuE DESERTER's DAUGUT] a

0

Y
n

t
I
,
F'
t
,

I

f
i

x
s
_5t}
f
f
I.
i   i
4   i
I   5
3   {

,


A. I. eassoI.  .J.- J. JTo$YO1U.
CREECH &amp; LITCHFORD,
SEVERAL COMMISSION IERCHIANTh
A;N,D
RALEIGH, N C,,
LL ATTEND FAITHFULLY AND PUNCTUALLY
TO Ai. BUSINESS
C0MMITT-ED TO THIER CARE.
JRMITTANCES MADE            PROMPTLY.
ONSIGNMENTS OF MERCHANDISE RESPECTFULLY SOLICTf .
BY THE HAT MANUFACTURERS AT STATES-
v4e, . C., 100,000 Fur Skins, such as
RABBITS,    -  -. -    -   - 2 ,004
COON,    -   -   -   -   -   20,000
FOX,       -   -   -   -   - 30,00
MUSK RAT,    -   -. -    -   10,000  .
MINK, .    -       -   -   - 10,000
OTTER-   -  -    -   -   -    4,000.
BEAVER,     -  -   -   -"-    1,000
fr which we will pay the highest prices either in our-
'eyor specie, or exchange for Hats.
WITTKOWBKY . SALTZBERY.
February 2, 865.

PAYETTEVILJAI STEET,

RALEIGH,, N. C .,
KEEPS CONSTAN'1LY.ON HAND A LARGE A]
varied selection of ENGLISH   and CONFEDERAJ
GEOODS, and, having in his.eiployment  ,
Two of the.Best Cutters in the South,
prepared to furnish  OFFICERS' and CITIZEN'
9LOTHING at the shortest possible notice.
He keeps on hand the beet articles of Trimmings, an
latest styles of Buttons, &amp;c., and flatters himself that fr
;OOD FITS AND SUPERIOR WORKMANSHIP
his establishment cannot be surpassed in the Confederas.
is prices will be as moderate as the times will afford.
C f A ftL E $ M .  8~j ft $$..R A .J .
S R'oT A RY P UB 1IC A ND GENERA L A OENT,
RALELIH, N. C.
ALL BUSINESS ENTRUSTED           TO  HIS CHAR      .
will be carefully attended to,
Ralei gh, N. 0., Uec. 15, 1864.

I                                      0

0

9

I

M

s

p'

-

*.

ei'cJi n* ai1o,


Catalogue of Bookr
*        PUBLISHED BY
Raleigh, N. C.

OUR OWN PUBLICATIONS.

First Dixie Primer, 3d Edition, dedicated especially to the Dixie
Children, (by a Southron Matron, Mrs. 31. B. Moore, N(. C.) .
Price, (per hundred $50.)                                  $1",
Wirst Dixie Reader, comprising easy reading lessors, to succeed the
Primer. By Mrs: M. B. Moore. Price,       '1                   g
hbe Dixie Elementary Spelling Book, most carefully arranged and
adapted for Southern Schools. By Mirs. 31. B1 Moore. Price,  8 04
The Primary Geography, with Maps, entirely new and popular.
By Mrs. M. B. Moore. Price,               .8 0
Johnson's Common So hool Arithmetic, just from the press and in      .
great demand. By Prof L. Johnson, of Trinity College. Price,. 4 50
Jirst Book in Composition, to precede English Grammar, contain-
ing a variety of pleasant writing exercir s for the student. By
L. Branson, A. Al. Price,
'York's English Grammar, 3d Edition, illustrated by diagrams, en-
tirely a Southern work, and one of the best in use. By a devo-
ted Teacher. Price,1                                       4 5o
sill's Poems, pronounced by the best critics t be " true and gen-
uine poetry."  By Thee . 111Hil. Price,                    g 0
Morveriand Lind, a tale of a soldier's faithful love. By A. W.
Mangum. Price,                                                5o
Myrtle Leavcs, a book for the times, by Rev. A. W. Mangnrn, is
full of fine thought, s t. in beautiful prose and poetry. Price,  8 00
historical Soripture Questions, for Sabbath Schools and the Camp.
Price, (per hundred $50,)-             -  .1 00
it  is d.cX 4!dly the best w rk I hav' k'own on the e etj'CC. It
gives the student a fire knowledge of Bible History."-W. 'J. W.
Crowded, Tract Agent.
songs of Love anrd Liberty, compiled by a North Carolina Lady for
Southern patriots. Price, ($50 per hundred,)                1 00
Jack Morgan Songster, choice selections, by Capt. T. A. Branson,
late of Gen. Lee's army. Price, ($50 per hundred,)          1 00
iThe usual discount to the Trade.h

$

D. C. MURRAY.&amp; 'CO.
enieral 4&amp;.i1.201c .

.AND
ammassa n                        e         nts
FA YETTE VILLE STREET, RALEIKH N. c.,
HAVING  REGULAR.             OQMMENCE D BUSINESS,
solicit consignments. They will attend promptly to the
purchase and sale of goods, stocks, &amp;c., &amp;c.
RtEFEUEjCES2
Chas Dewey, Cashier. and W. H. Jones, Oashier, taleigh.
Harris &amp; Howell, Wilmuington.
J. H. Lindsay, Cashier, Greensboro'.
D. A. Davis, Cashier, Salisbury.
T. W. Dawey, Cashier,.Charlotte.
A. McLean, Cashier, Fayetteville.
Branab, Mortou &amp; On., Richmond, Va.
Jas. E. Cuthbert, Cashie:, Petersburg, Va.

NERO AUCTION

AND
S~iOD          O'Oie,
FA YETTEi 'vLE STREET, RALEIGH, N. C.
SAFE AND COMFORTABLE QUARTERS, AND
charges rfr Board, &amp;c., as moderate as tihe times will per-
mit.*
They have an experience of twenty years in the Trade,
and flatter themselves that they thoroughl understand
the business.

January 1st, 1865.

it

t3

If

71

JAS. A. MOORE.

r

JNO. W. lIARliISQL~

" C. FLUItRA         e

.._    .....___...,.,,._.-._. ...Y._          ------------_-- - --- --     ...-...
___._.r     __...           .... _...,. ,.,,..._,,, ..,..
-.r.-. ... .,, .

33g .t G
zx sF
'   rY

W. F. ASKEW &amp; CO.


1a W. R. RIQHARDSON           &amp; CO.,,
BROKERS AND STOCK AUCTIONEERS,'
FAY ETTEVILLESTREET, RALEIGH, N. C.,
-(THREE DOORS LBOVE THE POST OFI"iCE.)
ONSIGNMENTS OF STATE, RAIL ROAD AND ALL KINDS @@
Stock solicited. It being our peculiar business to deal in Stocks it is bt
fair to presumed e give them  mre auiention than general Auctioneers.
We deal i all kind of Exchange, Stuck, Coin, Bullion; Bank Notes,
Governmer1, State and tod!oraion B iads, and do a general Brolerage
1'usiness.
-f."WAN TED,
GOLD AND SILVER, BANK NOTES
AND
NORTH CAROLINA TREASURY NOTES.
4     *                      .FOR SALE,
NORTH CAROLINA 6 PER CENT. BONDS, OLD ISSUE.
ALSO NEW NORTH CAROLINA 6 PER CENT. BONDS.
NORTH CAROLINA COUPONS OF OLD 6 PER CENT. BONI4.
BULLION AND COIN. CONFEDERATE BONDS.
3                   :~MA18TNM      IN
4
BOOK AND N2WS DEPOT,
KIN6 STREET, OPPOSITE ANN STREET/,
CHARLESTON, S. C.
BACK NOS. OF THE FIELD AND'FIRESIDE AN
PACIFICATOR ent to any address on receipt of fifty tent
per copy.
January 5th, 1865.
-


                                  
             
         
       
   
