
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). The Man-o'-war's-man's Grudge .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6971
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The man-o'-war's-man's grudge 
            A ROMANCE OF THE REVOLUTION.

BY NED

BIN'TL NE,
1F $

NEW YORK:
E R I C    A. B R A D~Y,
NO. 24 ANN STREET.

F R E D

i

4'


THE
MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S &amp;RUDGEO
(                                I
OIAPTEf I.
SINRoDUCTIoN.
Let me introduce you, my friend, to one' of expected discharge of a pistol in the hands of
the bravest heroes that ever drew a sword in  a younger brother. He then made a voyage
defonee of American liberty-JoHnA BARsEY.- to Cadiz an-I Genoa, and in 1775 sailed for
I am about to weave a portion of his life into  Italy  On this trip the mate was disehargred,
the web of romance; and if, spider-like. I can  and Barney promoted in his place  The cap-
inveigle you tato the web, I'll strive to keep tamn beingtaken sick, thenavig4tion and whole
vonrthere until you acknowledge that Amen- charge of the vessel devolved upon Barney,
can history and romance can be so blendid as  who was then oot quite sixteen years"of age.
to keep alive the fire of patriotemn in the  In July, 1775 he went to Alicant where his
i          breasts of all true Americans.            vessel was engaged by the Spaniards in the
And before I hailthe romance tacks ahoari, transport service, they neing engaged in an
I will say a word in regard ti) the birth and  expedition against Algiers  But the expedi-
early prestiges of my hero. He was born in tion failed and he returned hoie. On his
Baltimore, in 1759  His father was a farmer, arrival at the mouthi of the Cnesapeake bay, iis
and lived near that city  He received a plain  vessel was boarded by an officer frsin the lirit-
English education. and at the early age of ish corvette King Fisher, and there. for roe
"             eleven was placed in a retail store in Alexan- first time, he heard of tie Battle of Bunker
dria, but he was "like a fish out of water" in  Hill, though he was boarded on the first of
such an employment. Uoline some of our    October, 1775. Tue ship was searched, her
modern counter-jumpers, he bad a soul above  arms and letters taken from her, and Barney
ribbons and shoe-laces  In 1771 he returned  was grossly insulted by the Englian officer,
to Baltimore, and insisted upon going to sea  who called him n a, brat of a Yankee"  From
For several months he cruised in a pilot boat, that tinte he bore a grudze against John Boll
sailed iy a friend of his father, and learned a  which he never forgot  Immediately on laud-
good deal of the coast, especially around the  ing, he sought a berth on hoard the sloop ior-
Chesapeake and Capes of the Delaware, gain- net, Captain Stone, and having received a
ing a knowledge which was of immense benefit flag from  Commodore Hopkins. the first
to him  afterward. His father, finding teat ever raised in Maryland, he beat up for r.-
nothing would break his inclination for toe  ern its, and in one day got a full crew tr the
sea, apprenticed him in a brig to a Captain  vessel
Drysdale, woo rade a voyage from Ba'timore - No er, having given you a star-ing point so
to Cork- Their passage was rough, but they  far as my hero is- conerned. I am re.y to
ari-ived sare, and soon after the vessel was I make sai on-the course of my 'story. And
sold. Btrney returned to Baltimore, where, having got my hearingsgs" taken " distancee
soon after, he had the misfortune to lose his and departure' " I11 open a fresh chapter by
father, who was accidentally killed by the un- way of an anchorage

/


1)

ruAn"_uAP'S-~MAN'S GRUDGE

TILE M AN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

CHAPTER IL
THE CHASE.

It was October, 177 .. A heavy gale was
blowing from the northward. Two vessels-
one was a ship, the other a rakish fore-topsail
schooner, both armed-were standing off the
coast, leaving the Capes of the Delaware. Both
were under reefed sails. Tue ship contained
Benjamin Franklin, then boundon his mission
t Fran ;e -the schooner was the gallant little
Wasp to which Barney had been transferred
from the Hornet. It was singular that his first
experieiee in armed vessels was in these sting-
inz 1irds. as Paddy called the bees.
The Wasp convoyed Franklin's ship until
slei nas well beyond the line of cruisers
w hieh infested our coast at that time, and then
her Captain, Charley Alexander, put about to
return to the Delaware.
It was a clear morning when they re-sight-
ed Cage lenlopen,and at the same time made
out seven 'r sail lay ng in the roads on that side
of th-'  i.
"Oiita kind of craft do you think they are,
Mr lh r ue y * 'isked the captain, as the former,
i   'is perched on the foretopsail yard,
l-e id at them through a spy glass.
-  'ii  inin o'-war, sir. Blast 'em, I owe
te h- m  "  irt kirvi of a grudge !" replied
- are- tiy heavy vessels ?"
-  ar-I 'in sure one of them is a large
fri: i'r and the other is a frigate or a large
3509 t   ar "
" T    heavy for us--I'll stand off. and then
try th+ ('ape May channel," said the captain.
The breeze was pretty fresh, and hauling
more to the eastward now. But the gallant
little Wasp staggered along under a whole
topsail, mainsail, foresiil and jib, and soon
was up abreast of tie Cape May channel.
11cr head was now laid for the entrance of the
bay.
But she was not to slip in without notice, or
an attempt being made to bring her to. Tne
British vessels bad evidently, from her rake
and rig, discovered her character, and were
under a press of canvas standing across to cut
her off.
'She must bear the topgallant sail," mut-
tered the captain, as he saw that his clanc to
slip by the enemy's cruisers was slim
SShe'll stand it, and the squ-resail, too,
sir," said Barney-" the wind is well on our
quartr'r
The aiditionui sail was added, and with the
bows fairly huied in foam, the little schooner

stood bravely on her course. The British
ships, covered from the deck almost to their
trucks with canvas, were coming up. After
about two hours run, the leading vessel luffed
up, and a cloud oi smoke was seen to puff out
from her bow. Then the spray from a shot,
as it struck the water nearly a quarter of a
mile short of the schooner, rose in the air.
"Too weak winded," muttered Barney.
Then turning to the captain of the Wasp, he
said : "If you please, sir, I think our Long
Tom could measure the distance a little better
than that."
"Try it, Mr Barney, if you like," said the
captain.
"Thank you, sir," replied the youthful offi-
cer, "I owe the beef-eating rascals a grudge."
Carefully sighting the gun, which threw a
thirty-two pound shot, Barney applied the
match. Although the leading ship was full
two miles off, the effect of Barney's shot was
to knock her foreyard in two close to the
slings, and to deorive her of the use of both
the foresail and foretopsail for a time.
"Splendid, Mr. Barney, splendid! 'cried the
captain, in delight
"Shall I give her another, just by way of
compliment, sir:?"
"No, sir-not until we get further up the
bay. Every shot we fire will deaden our
headway-they are too heavy for us, and I
see there is a brig larger than us standing out
too. If the wind should die away, their boats,
with so many men, might give us a deal of
trouble."
Toe three British vessels, new finding itim-
possible to cut off the schooner before she
would place a middle-ground between them
ove: which they could not pass, for they were
provided with tory pilots, now stood up the
ilInlopen channel, pressing every stitch, of
canvas which they could set, determined to
overhaul her before she could reach a point of
the river protected by the American batteries.
But a stern chase is ever a long one. The
schooner had a little the advantage in distance,
but they had greatly the advantage in canvas,
for all three carried studding-sails, and the
schooner had none On-on dashed the Wasp,
like a deer before the hounds, still keeping
just out of gun shot until nearly night. Then,
as the breeze began to die away, the enemy
began to gain.
"It would be accursed luck if we were
taken at last," muttered the captain.

5

I

4

1" L1  '-'' - "  ~ ~  ~~
We will not be," said Barney, calmly.  side on ; and if they want to come in with their
"How can we help it if they close with us? boats, we'll tale the old grudge out of them
Ty have one forty-four gun frigate, one of with a little grape and canister."
twenty-eight, and that brig has eighteen.   "Your ideai good,Mr Barney-wilf-
There is but one way-we can run the schoon- low it.dsir,"continuedBarney, after we
er ashore, escape in  ,bget in we can send word up the river by ex-
"There is another way, sir," said Barney, press to the galleys, and they can comenthey
"I'd thank you to point it out, sir," re- lay at anchor till daylight."
plied the captain, less assured than his young  "True again, Mr. Barney," said Ca~ptain
p officer.Alexander.
We are within three miles of Wilmington  In a short time, inder histskillful paoag
creek, sir; I know the way into it, and there Barney had the Wasp insi  t a
is plenty of water for us, but not enough for a posture for defence. The British vessels, as
them. We will be protected, in a great mena- he had predicted, anchored outside.  An
sure, from their guns by the trees growing at express was also sent immediately to Corn-
the mouth, and after running up a little way, modore Hopkins, who was further up the
we can takein sail and lay the schooner broad- Delaware. .

S

4

1


.
i
a
r
f
I;
i

G3

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S.MAN'S GRUDGE.

CHAPTER    III                           .     '
THE FIGHT.
All that night the crew of the Wasp lay on j  Acting under Barney's advice, aad by his
t'eir arms on deck, ready for and expecting a assistance, Alexander now had the schooner
boa. attack  Neither Barney or the comman- warped to the mouth of the creek.
der closed an eye. They knew that if not at-  The officers and crew of the brig were oc.
tacked at night. they would be, most probably, cupied in returning the fire of the galleys, and
in the morning,                           watching their attack upon the larger vessels,
But the night passed without an alarm, and and were not aware of the proxicaity of the
before the gray cf the coming dawn, thewind, schooner, until a thirty-two pound shot crash-
whieh had been so strong, died away into a ed throughtheir bulwarks, dismounting one of
breeze so gentle that it hardly lifted the short their carronades, and killing and wounding
night pennan t at the masthead.           nearly a dozen men. It is about as comfort-
Suddenly the boomof asinglegun, evidently  able to be caught between two fires as it is for
of very heavy calibre, came thundering over amarried man to be caught by his wife kiss-
the water. In a few moments it was repeated, ing a girl whom he has been courting under
and shortly gun aftergun opened loudlyinthe the pretence of being single. If he isn't under
morning air-                              two fires, who is?
"The Commodore is down withthegalleys,    In less than half a minute, another shot
I expect sir, 'said Barney. "With your per- from the saucy little Wasp crashed into the
mission, l'il take a boat and pull to the mouth  brig, hitting her just above wind and water,
of the creek. and see what is up"         and knocking a hole in her large enough to
"Do so, Mr Barney, but hurry back." said  have shoved a man through. At that moment
the captain; "if there is a chance, I wish to a gentle land breeze began to ruffle the leaves
improve it"                               in the tree tops.  The commander of the
" Not worse than I do-my old grudge never schooner saw it.
will be satisfied," said Barney, as he ordered ' Aloft, men, and loose the top sail !" he
a boat lowered, that he might proceed to re- cried-" loose the topgallant-sail, too. Mr.
connoitre. He was not gone long, for ere the Barney, clap the canvas on her--we'll board
first gleam of the rising sun had reddened the that fellow."
eastern sky, he returned and reported that the  "Good! That's the tune I like, sir. One
galleys, in full force, had attacked the vessels, more chance to take out my grudge for John-
which were anchored in the river a short dis- ny Bull, and show him what 'a Yankee brat'
tance below the mouth of the creek. The two can do," shouted Barney, himself springing
larger vessels were some ways out in the river, aloft to hurry the men in their work.
but the brig lay close in shore, having follow-  Before the commander of the brig knew
ed the schooner the night previous much   that a breeze was springing up, the Wasp was
nearer in than the rest.                  cnder canvas, and standing down upon him in
Tnere was not breeze enough to enable the a course which enabled her to rake him fore
veasels to get under way, and the galleys and and aft, without his having hardly a chaneeto
gun boats, propelled by oars and sweeps. were return the fire. The gun-boats, seeing the
enabled to chose their own position, and to do schooner come out, now centered their fire on
considerable execution. The British vessels the larger vessels, and left the brig to be han-
got springs on their cables, and prepared to died by the Wasp.
make the best defence they could, but their  "Stand by to let everything go by the run,
chances were precarious without a breeze.  and grapple as I lay her aboard !' shouted
"Can't we bring the schooner into action, Alexander, as he bore down. "Mr. Barney,
Mr. Barney ?" asked Alexander, fuming with you will head the boarders."
impatience, as the rapid discharge of cannon- "Ay, ay, sir," was the cheerful response.
ry and rising clouds of smoke told him how  "Strip to the waist, men-we've got work to
busy they were outside.                   do," he added, as he threw off his coat and
"Easily, sir-by warping," replied the bared his right arm, with which he sustained
young master's mate, who was acting as first a keen and heavy cutlas.
officer under the commander; "and it we     Tne next moment, amid the rattling of pis-
could only lay the brig alongside we could tols and musketry, and'the yells of maddened
take her. Stauding off, she is too heavy metal foemen, the hulls of the two vessels crashed
for us."                                  together. In an instant, sheets and halliards

I

3
,
I
1
K

7

were let fly on board the Wasp, her sails came leader the British eased to resist, and hauled
down, her grapnels were east, and, like two  down their colors.
huge giants, clasped in a deadly embrace, with The breeze had now freshened, and the ene-
hundreds of struggling pigmies above them, my's other vessels were under way, and stand-
lay the long, dark and shattered hulls.  ing down the river. When they saw that the
Barney, followed by his men, yelling and  brig had surrendered, they opened fire on her
fighting like so many demons, sprang upon and the schooner for a short time, but.dared
the brig's deck, parrying the points of board- not try to retake her under the fire of the gun-
ing pikes, and cutting down a foe at every  boats, which, in smooth water, with their long
sweep of his blood-stained blade. The ene- pivot guns, were more dangerous than large
my, who had met them on the forecastle, be- vessels, for they exposed so little surface that
gan to fall back toward the quarter-deck. At it was next to impossible to damage them,
this moment, Barney recognized an old ac- while every shot from them told iii the. hulls
quaintance in the commander of the brig. It or rigging of the Englishmen. But the breeze
was the officer who had so grossly insulted  soon carried the latter out of fire.
him at the mouth of the Chesapeake.         Barney was busy in getting the prize in or-
"Stand out, you beef-eating scoundrel-- der to go up the river, when a barge rowed
stand out, and see what 'a Yankee brat' can  alongside, and the gallant Commodore Hop-
do now !" cried the young officer. "I owp  kins sprung on board.
you an old grudge, Johnny-give me aehance  " I congratulate you, Captain Alexander, on
to take it out !"                        taking so valuable a prize. I have been a wit-
The   recognition  was mutual, and the ness of your gallantry," he cried, grasping the
British officer, who was, fighting desperate- hand of the commander of the Wasp.
ly at the head of his men, did not avoid    "Mr. Barney deserves all the credit, sir,"
the chance which Barney sought. He was said the gallant and generous officer; "he ad-
a large and powerful man, and a thorough vised the attack, and led on the boarders."
swordsman, wherein he has the advantage     "Ah! I met you in Baltimore, did I not,
of Barney, who, as yet, had had but little sir?" asked the commodore, recognizing Bar-
opportunity to improve himself in the science ney,~who was spotted with blood and black-
of arms. But he did not lack strength or ened with smoke.
courage, and so impetuous was hi attack    "Yes,, sir - I had the ho- r of being ap-
that the Englishman at firsa fell back under  pointed a master's mate by you, on board the
the rapidity of his blows, contenting himself Hornet."
with parrying and not returning them.. But  "Yes, I remember. You drummed up a
he was only "feeling his man'" A moment crew for-her in one day. You are an honor
more and Barney's entlas flew from his hand. to the service. You shall rank as lieutenant
He never would have struck another blow had  from this day. Call on me, to-morrow, at
not his foot slipped in a puddle of blood, which Philadelphia, and you shall have your eom-
brought him on his knees, and his adversary's mission and a command--you are worthy of
sweeping blade passed over his head. Quick  it. The sloop Sachem is fitting out, and will
as thought he drew a pistol from his belt, but suit a dare-devil like you to a notch."
before he could use it, an old seaman-a quar-  The young officer blushed at the unexpeet-
ter gunner from the Wasp-sprung before ed, yet gratifying, compliments,, and did not
him  and drove his eutlas up to the very hilt hesitate, when invited by the captain, to join
in the Englishman's breast.  ,           the commodore below in something "warm to
"Blast your eyes, you infernal scoundrel, take."
what did you do that for!" yelled Barney,  The next day Joshua Barney received, from
rising to his feet, and shaking his clenched the hands of that noble patriot, Robert Mor-
hand in the seamen's face.   "That man   ris, the President of the Marine Committee, the
was my property. Towed him a grudge, promised commission of lieutenant, although
and your cursed interference has spoiled my  only about seventeen years of age. But,
chance !"                                thrown so early in a position of command,
"I reckon he'd have spoiled your chances obliged to depend upoh his energies, he seem-
for all time to come if i'd let him had another ed much older than he was. But youth's fol-
lick at you," growled the grim old seaman, lies were not entirely dead in him, as the next
resting on his cutlas, for with the fall of their chapter will prove.

THE MAN-O'-WAR S-MAN S GRUDGE.


THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

CHAPTER IV.

THE  BAFFLED  SUITOR.

There was a jolly party, on the second
evening after Barney had received his commis-
sion, at the sign of the "Spread Eagle," on
Market street, Philadelphia Reeves, the bur-
ly landlord, assisted by his son Clem, had
their hands full to attend to the numerous
calls made for Jamaica rum slings and Hol-
land schnapps, the two most fashionable bev-
erages in those days.
In the large, old-fashioned parlor, some fif-
teen or twenty perons, mostly officers in our
young navy, were gathered, and many a patri-
otic toast was given, many a song sung not at
all complimentary to King George or his loyal
subjects. Young Barney was the hero of
the evening, not only in consequence of his
recent good conduct, but also because he was
"wetting his commission," or, in other words,
giving tae entertainment.
While these light-hearted and gallant gen-
tlemen are enjoying themselves, reader, we
will avail ourselves of a mantle of invisibility,
and visit another scene which was occurring
only a half square or so distant from the tavern.
A very lovely young lady was sitting in a
handsomely-furntshed room-a parlor, appa-
rently. She was rather above the middle
height-her figure noble and full, her features
classically regular. Her complexion, though
clear as the thin rind of a pomegranate, was
of a brunettish hue, the rich blood often mant-
ling up to her very brow at the slightest ex-
citement. Her eyes were large and dark, as
if they had been condensed from a night-cloud,
with a tiny diamond of blazing light put in
the centre of each. These were fringed by
long ebon lashes, which hid that light if they
were but cast down. At the time which I
take for her introduction, she was sitting calm-
ly on a chair by a centre.table, one of her
hands toying with one of the glossy ringlets
which fell upon her white shoulders, the other
resting on marble less white than it was. A
look of cool contempt was expressed in her
face, which well became her haughty, queenly
appearance, as she gazed upon the other occu-
pant of the room.
He was a young man, very richly dressed
in the extreme of the then prevailing fashion.
But be bore the marks of dissipation, and his
face, though it would have been called hand-
some by some, had not an expression which
would impress a stranger. His figure was
elegant, but God had written villain on his
brow!t

He was striding to and fro in the room,
his face red and convulsed with passion, his
hands clenched, and his form quivering with
rage.
At last he paused before the lady, and, in a
voice low and husky, said, as he bent his.
gleaming eyes upon her:
"So, Miss Cora Bedford, you refuse my
hand-refuse it with scorn and contempt?"
"I do, Mr. Elliott 1" replied the lady, neither
blanching before his angry look, nor avoiding
the glance of his almost bloodshot eyes.
"Am I not wealthy ?" he continued.
"The world thinks you are," she replied,
with indifference.
"Am I not young; as good-looking as any
of your admirers?"
"You think so!" she responded, in the same
tone.
"Is not my family, am not I, respectable?
Stand we not at the topmost round of aristo-
cracy?"
"No!" responded the beautiful girl-" no!
not of the American aristocracy ! Your father
is a detestable tory, and you are a contempti-
ble puppy !"
As she spoke she rose, her queenly form
towering, and her face flushing with indig-
nation.
"Were you not a woman !" he muttered,
between his grating teeth.
"Were I a man, I'd scourge you from my
presence, you dastardly coward !" she said.
" As it is, Mr. Elliott, all that I can say is,
that the atmosphere in this apartment would
be much more agreeable to me if it was re-
lieved from the pollution of your presence. I
hope you will understand that hint, sir, and
not oblige me to ring for a servant to expel
you !"
"By the God who made me, you shall
suffer for this, proud girl !" he muttered
"Swear by the devil ; God never had any-
thing to do with such a wretch as you are!"
was her scornful reply.
"You shall sue on your bended knees for a
favor from me yet!" he cried. "From this
hour on, Cora Bedford, I devote myself to
your ruin 1"
"I defy 'on, you pitiful reptile-and mark
me ! the next time you dare to address me,
I'll make my father's negro servant scourge
you from the door, or horsewhip S ou in the
street, if there you speak to me!"
"You will?"

I

THE MAN O'-WAR'S-MAN S GRUDGE.

r^k
"td
1
1 i

9

" I will, Henry Elliott, as sure as I live l"
"Then hear my threat, Miss Bedford, since
threats are the order of the day-and I will
keep mine. I will kiss you the first time I'
meet you in public !"
" Make your will before you try' it !" re-
sponded the spirited girl, opening the door
and pointing to it.
With a curse upon his lips, the baffled suit-
or departed.
We wi 1 now return to the jolly party at
the "Spread Eagle," then the most fashion.
able hotel in town. It was getting late, and
their imbihations had made them pretty warm,
Barney had just finished a rousing sea song,
when an addition was made to the numbers in
the room by the entrance of several young
men in citizen's dress, but fashionably appa.
reled. They took a table near where the offi-
eers were seated in a circle, and, although they
seemed by their actions to have already taken
aboard a pretty heavy cargo, called for a bowl
of punch.   .
The officers evidently considered this as
rather an intrusion, but, as they were in the
public parlor, and not in private room, made
no remark
The punch was brought by the attentive
landlord, and the gasses of the new-eomurs
were filled.
"Here's that you may win your bet, El-
liott." said one of the party, draining off :."
bumper.
"What was the bet. Tom ?" asked another ;
"it was made before I came in."
"Why," responded the other. "Elliott there
made a wager with Sam Wilkins that he d
kiss Miss Cora Berlford in the public street be-
fore a week has passed'
"Whatt the lovely daughter of Alderman
Bedford-the belle of the city?'
"Yes-an1 I'll bet a guinea that he wins
it !" replied the other.
Another voice-not from the party-joined
in the conversation. It was that of young
Barney, whose eyes flashed like sparks of fire
as he heard the young fops speak thus lightly
of an insult to he premeditatedly offered to a
respectable lady.
"The man who would make such a bet is a
scoundrel, and the fellow who would take it is
a fool !" he cried. "The first ought to win a
broken head, and the second to be ducked in
a horse-pond !"
"Do you mean me, sir ?" shouted Elliott,
the same whom we recently saw dismissed by
the lady. "I made the bet!"

8

" Then I mean you !" replied Barney, coolly.
"You are a scoundrel, sir-I will have sat
isfaction-you wear a sword !" shouted El-
liott, rising from his seat.
"Yes, but I only use my sword on enemies
worthy of my steel-on the foes of my coun-
try. In regard to the term you applied to me
I have but one response-what do you think of
my bootmaker ?"
As he said this, Barney most unexpectedly
applied the square toe of a heavy sea-boot to
that portion of Elliott's person which had last
been in contact with the chair. The latter,
backed by his friends, made a blow at Barney,
which the latter parried, and then with a tre-
mendous right-hander he visited Mr. Elliott's
frontispiece on the equinoctial line between
his eyes, causing him to take a celestial ob-
servation from a reclining posture. The fight
now became general. fcr all hands had plenty
of combative fluid aboard, and the ears of the
staid Quakers of the vicinity were shocked by
the shouts, yells and curses of the parties.
The noise awoke several watchmen from their
slumbers, who rushed to the scene, and after
the parties had got through the fight-te
citizens having knocked under to, or rather
been knocked under by, the officers--made a
general arrest of all those who were well
whipped, taking the words of honor c f the
others that they would appear at ten o'clock
the next morning before his worship the Alder-
man of the district.
Elliott and the most of his companions were
ingloriously lugged off to the watch-house,
havi' g had very little self inotive left in them,
though they were "fast boys."
Barney called for the bill, to which, at his
request, the landlord added the damages of
both parties, and promptly settled it,
"What made you pitch into that fellow  o
quick, Josh?" asked one of his compaonlud,
as the party were departing for their rooms.
"I felt a grudge against him the moment t
saw his face, that I couldn't exactly account
for; but when I heard him speak ofinsulting
a respectable woman, then I remembered that
I had a mother and a sister, and I boarded
him! I couldn't help it-I only wish he was
an Eoglishman !"
"He's worse--his father is a blasted old
tory   I only wonder that he is permitted to
live in the city," responded the other. "But
good night, Josh-I'il see you at the Alder-
man's ' in the mornit g. You'll be all right
there-it was his daughter that the puppy bet
he would kiss."

s
r
z
i

i


THE MAN-O'-WAR S-MANS GRUDGE,b

TUE MAN 0 W ARS-MAN'S GRUDGE.

CH APTER V.
AN ALDERMAN OF THE OLDEN TIME.

It is almost impossible to find a fair repre-
sentative of 'an Alderman all of the olden
iume" now-a-days   One whose head is filled
with wise saws, grave morals, much law, and
t et not incapable at times of uttering an offi-
ei.l jest, or stiking a culprit into a sense of
iter nothingness by his frown. One with
t'e as radian'r as the sun seen through morn's
sil' ery mist-" round belly with fat capon
mel - and eyes capable of looking over the
,flicial spectacles rather than through them-
'yes capable of telling at a glance an honest
tm in from a rogue. Such a man, for instance,
my octogenarian friend Binna, the patriarch
tat her of the aldermanie tribe in this section.
On one occasion, when he demanded bail for
the' appearance of a man at court, an indi-
'imlual aepped forward and volunteered to be-
come surety for the accused.
I can t take you, sir," said the Alderman,
the mo =ment he looked at him.
" \Vh% "''asked the would-be surety, indig.
-      I in Fma freeholder."
- t don't care.' said the Alderman-"you'd
seal it you had a chance "
The 'tian went away in high dudgeon, but,
etngula t"- say. on the very next morning be
wa. arrested in the very azt of larceny, and
hr ug ht h-fore Alderman Binns. ' Didn't I say
tou'd eat if you had an opportunity V" said
the AIderman. as he made out a corumitment
for him     ut I'i yawing wildly off the
course of my story  pardon me, reader, and
l'll haul my tacts aboard and come by the
wind again.
On the next morning after the battle des-
cribed in the last chapter as occurring at the
-- Spread Eagle," a visitor to the office of his
worship. Alderman Bedford, would have seen
that gentleman, attended by his clerk, who
was none other than his lovely daughter, enter
the room from an inner apartment of his
house, for his office was in his dwelling, with
a satisfied air of importance on his counten-
ance and a huge volume of statutes under his
arm The hour was exactly fifty-five min-
utes after nins, by the huge old-fashioned gold
watch which, with a pound, more or less, of
seals attached, rested in a fob over over his
truly aldermanic paunch. I need not describe
him-in fact, I did so in the commencement of
this chapter.
It took him about five minutes to seat him-
self in the well.cushioned armchair behind his

desk, arrange his spectacles, etc.; then care-
fully brushing the shiny summit of his bald
head with a silk bandanna, and addressing
the beautiful girl who, pen in hand, had seat-
ed herself by his side, he was ready for bnsi
ness. But not an officer entered the door un-
til precisely ten o'clock, his hour for opening
court.
At the moment when that hour arrived, Mr.
Elliott and his companions were ushered in by
the guardians of the city's peace, all of them
looking much the worse for wear. A look of
malicious satisfaction crossed the beautiful
face of Cora, as, in the battered and bruised
face and tattered and bloody garments of El-
liott, she recognized her discarded suitor
Maddened and humiliated, he cast his eyes
down, biting his lips till the red hlood tric-
kled from them. In a few moments, Barney,
in his neat uniform.,cleanly appareled, an
looking as clear and fresh as a son of temper-
ance and half as handsome as an Apollo ap-
p~eared, attended by his companions, who, bay-
ing had a night's rest and the advantages of
lavation, looked as different from Elliott and
his woe-begone crew as daylight from dark-
ness.
" Who have we here? What is the charge?
have those dirty-looking rIffians been caught
in some nefarious action ?" asked the Alder-
man. Then turning to his daughter 'and
pointing to Elliott whom he did not recog-
nise, he said: "Mark that fellow, he has the
vwry look of a thief. Cora 1"
- Yes, father-be looks as if he'd been rob-
bing a hen-roostI" she replied, speaking loud
enough for him to hear her.
Tue captain of the watch now advanced to'
make his charge.
"Your honor," said he. ' last night, about
the hour of twelve, while these gallant young
officers were having a quiet little time all by
themselves at the 'Spread Eagle,' these here
chaps with the battered mugs-and ugly
mugs they have, as your worship might see
without even looking through your worship's
worshipful spectacles-these here fellows went
into their room and called for rum punch, of
which they'd had more than a full allowance
already. Then one of 'em said something
that offended this gallant young officer, who
had just got his commission for fighting so
well the other day down the river, and taking
a brig from the d-d Britishers--.-"

I

I

"Stop the-e!" said the Alderman to tne e ep-
tain, in a tone of offended dignity  - You
said d--d Britisbe'es, Mr. Crabstick. I hate
the British as bad as you do, sir-hut, mark
me, they mustn't be d'-d in this court. Anoth-
er oath, sir, and I fine you! Now go on with
your c rarge !"
you ebeg pardon, your honor," said the
abashed official. "As I was saying. that 'ere
bang-dog looking fellow (pointing to Elliott.)
wrathy, and so he up fist and darkened his
peepers.  Then a general srlmmage com-
meeced, and we went in and ' pulled' the
worst of these fellows, and here they are.
The officers acted so like gentlemen that we
took their words of honor for their appear-
anc , and they ar' here to a man."
Woat did you strike that fellow for, sir ?"
asled the Alderman, addressing Barney.
1    astruc  him hecause he struck at me, sir
---hut had just kicked him. I commenced
the affray, and if your honor would let him
off I an willing to pay the fine.  I ve dark-
.ned lie top-lights and stove in Ike ivory
fe cwork about his head-rail, and he's been
pretty badly punished I''
I'm to be the judge of that. sir!' said the
ma'iat.rate, with a tone of dignity "Why
didvou kick him, sir?"
B-cause he spoke disrespectfully of a vir-
t'mou' hdy, sir-an! in my presence made, a
wrager that within a week he would kiss her
inibh-street; cad, sir, though I did not know
it then, and never had seen her-it' I had. I
you'd have knocked his head clear off his
shoulders-I am much mistaken if it was not
the lovely lady who sits by your side.  The
name which he bandied a'out amOng his dis-
'      solute and drunken companions was that of
Miss Cora Bedford !"
"D-n him! did he?     I'd have knocked
him down myself !" cried the excited Alder-
man. "Kiss my daughter in the street-my
Cora-the d-d villain '
"Father, father, you are.swearing !" said
the fair girl by his side, smi'ing, though her
face was suffused with blushes, for Barney's
eyes were fixed admiringly upon her.
"True, my child-true-the court is in

err'r. Tie court fines itself ! How many
times din I d-n him?'
"T"Twice, father," replied the fair clerk
"That's four shillings-d-n him again!
Now make it six, and charge it uainat me on
the docket!"
This act of justice disposed of, the Alder-
man turned to Elliott and addressed him :
"What is yonr name, where do you be-
long, and how do you make your living?
Speak up, you vagabond !"
My name is Henry Elliott, and you know
very well that I'm a gentleman, Mr. Alder-
man BedfordeI" said the fellow, looking as
fierce as he could through his half-closed
eyes.
eysnry Elliott-what, a son of old Elliot,
of Mulberry street ?"
"Yes, sir-and a visitor at your house!"
"Until I ordered him out of it for ,isult-
ing. re!" added Covet
i You are a pretty looking gentleman-you
and your companions there. If I meted out
fult justice to you, I would commit you to
prison, and cause you to travel'a few days on
the treadmill. It is a pity that whipping and
ducking are abolished! Ae it is, I fine you,
Mr. Gentleman Elliott, five pounds and costs,
and each of your companions one pound and
costs ! You can pay it now, or stand com-
mitted until you do !"
Tne mortified villain paid his fine and hur-
ried away, amid the sneers of those who were
present.
"pave 'we any fiues to pay, air?" asketi
Barney.
"No fines, but you are not to get off with-
out punishment, lieutenant! The court sen-
tences you to dins with it at three o'clock to-
day. Cora, you need not eater the sentence,
but don't forget it!"
"I'm sure I shall not, sir " ,said Barney,
again glancing at the beautiful girl. As their
eyes met, both blushed. What could be the
cause of that?
There being no other business before the
court, it adjourned, and the Alderman, at the
urgent request of Barney, visited the Sachem,
the new vessel which was being fitted out for
him.

10


THE MAN.O'-WAR'S.MAN S GRUDGE.
CHAPTER VI.
THE TORY AND iS SOS.

A large, pompous-looking, red-faced gern-
tleman was pacing to and fr9 in a room which,
from its pictures and welIfided book shelves.
seemed to be his library. He held an ooen
letter in his hand, which he had jest been
reading.
A servant entered and asked :
"])id you ring for me, sir?"
"Yes, Francis ; where is my son? I wisht
to see him."
"He did not come home, sir. last night. '
said the servant, rather confusediy.
"Not come home, Eht? 1) 'you ku.W where
he is ?"
"Not exactly, sir-but I heard-or th it is
--the butler told me that he heard when he
went to market, that-"
The servant stammered and paused.
Well. go on, you fool-what are you hesi-
tating fort What did the butler hear?'
lie heard, sir, that Master Henry had been
in a fight last night. and got put in the watch-
house"
In the watch-house '-mnijsonin the watch-
honse   By the blood of the Plantagenets I'll
hay- atistaction for that!-I'd see my friend
Bedford! '
You may save yourself that trouble, sir
your friend Bedfoi d has just fined me five
ponnis for getting beaten by a naval officer,
who made a quarrel with me," said the son,
who was no other than Mr. Henry Elliott,
who that moment entered the room, and heard
the latter part of his father's remarks.
Heavens, Henry ! is it possible that that
is you, my eon?"
It don't feel much like me, but I believe it
is all that is left of me, sir!"
"How in Heaven's name did you get beaten
so? who did it? and what for?"
"It was done by a young officer, who got
offended about something that I said aboutold
Bedford's daughter. She did me the honor to
refuse ag  offer of marriage, yesterday, and it
made me mad."
"Refused you 7  She, the daughter of a fat
Alderman, who hardly kno*s who his grand-
fkther was?  She refused the son of Plantag-
enet Elliott, who can trace his pedigree back
to the Norman conquest, and has an income
of ten thousand pounds a year? Impossible ?"

"Nor im possible--but actually true '" said
the son
"I'm glad of it. Tne balance would have
been far her-eath you. And no he fied you!
I sup"' se he imprisoned the brute who beat
yon so "
'N', cir--he invited him to dinner I"
'B y ihe blood of the Plantagenets, this is
i rue'w  u rale ! I'll go and curse him to his
face
' Do--he'll fine you for very oath you
utier
"then I won't. He shall not have that
mech satisfaction out of me. But I'll be re
venged upon him and every cursed rebel that
I can. 1 have a letter here from Lord Howe,
my son ; he offers me protection to myself and
property, and a commission for you, if I will
go to New York. I have been thinking of it
for some time, and have converted the greater
part of my property into ready money."
"1'il accept the commission," muttered the
young man, "on condition that I'm not at-
tached to any permanent corps, which will
keep me away from one object. I am bound
to have revenge, both on the officer who beat
me, and on old Bedford and his daughter,
I've sworn to humble her pride, and I will.
She scorned to be my bride, but she yet shall
be my mistress ! And the sooner we leave
here, the better. I will not go into the street
to be sneered at after this disgrace!"
"It will take some time to remove those
marks so as to enable you to be fit to appear."
remarked the father. "Francis, go and tell
Dr. Minturn to come hereinstantly. You had
better retire to your room, Henry. I will re-
ply to Lord Howe--his messenger awaits, and
I have other news to send him. These ac-
cursed rebels will soon be crushed, and we
will be amply rewarded for our loyalty. I
wouldn't be surprised if I were knigh-ed-I
ought to be, for the blood of the Plantagenets
runs in my veins !"
This statement of the old tory was true---
the blood was illegitimate, in consequence of a
lack of virtue on the part of one of his female
ancestors.
Henry now retired to rest, and received chi-
surgic care, while his father attended to his
treasonable correspondence.

1

;
if
.
,
f.'
e

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

CHAPTER VII.
LOVE   AND   DUTY.
Delightful was the punishment inflicted by You cut down that British captain when he
"the court" upon our friend Barney. Not was my property I"
only was the Alderman'a table laden with   "If I hadn't put my steel into him when I
every delicacy-of the season, which, to a sailor, did, your honor, you'd have never livedto get
whose luxuries consisted for the most part of this pretty sloop!1"
salt beef and pork, and hard bread, washed  "I know that, you rascal; but I owe you a
down with bad water qualified by rum, was a grudge for taking that job out of my hands.
treat, but choice and generous wines sparkled But what favor do you want 1-speak it outI"
on the board. But this was not the only    "If your honor would only be so good, I'd
charm for our yonng hero at that table. Tae, like to be transferred to-your vessel. I've fol-
dignity of "the court" melted in the convivi- lowed the-sea, boy and man, for forty years ;
ality of the season and place, and the Alder- and any of 'em can tell you that old Jim
man related many a merry jest. And Barney, Thompson is no labber!"
told Wny a tale of his adventures, in reply to  "I know that, my good fellow-but  why
questions from his host, unto which the fair do you wish to leave the Wasp-isn't Captain
Cora listened as attentively as did Desdemona Alexander a good officer ?"
to the tales of the noble Moor. T.he chief  "Yes, your honor, every inch of him a
charm at that table, however, for the young  sailor, from truck to kelson, but he don't fight
lieutenant, was that same young lady. She  as fast as you do, sir ! I'm getting along in
said but little, although her eyes spoke  years, and I want to make a fast run of it
volumes. When she did speak, her voice while my spars last. And then, you're honor,
sounded like music from heavenly spheres, to if you please, I've got eight other substantial
his entranced ears.                      reasons."
They were seated long at table-that is the  "Eight other reasons ! Why you are as full
Alderman and Barney, for after the dessert of reasons as a lawyer is of gab. What are
had been removed, and cigars brought in, the  they?"
lady, of course, was excused-and before they  "Why you see, your honor, the other rea-
arose, "the court" was almost in a state to sons are not all my fault, though I suppose its
fine itself for drunkenness. It was late before all. right that I should father 'em. You see,
Barney left the house that evening, for the  about four years ago I felt lonesome like, and
lady joined her father in pressing him to pass I fell in with a snuggish sort of a craft that
the evening there. He, of course, could not had four tender little tenders in tow, and as I
refuse, especially when she promised to sing, thought she had pretty hard work to make
at her father's request.                 fair weather and keep off of poverty rocks
W~hen he left tee house, he too was intoxi-  with 'em all, I took her in to w. Since then
cated ; not with wine, but with love. "llori. she launched three more o' the same sort, and
ous creature-I'd agree to be knocked down a  as they have to be kept in grub and rigging,
dozen times for a willing kiss from her nee-  why, I'd like to sail where I know the most
tarine lips !" said he, as he passed down the prize money'llcome in; and from the speciment
street with her sweet "'good night" still ring- I've seen of your honor's work, I'd rather sail,
ing in his ears, and his veins still tingling with  with you than anywhere else. And besides; if
the gentle pressure which he had distinctly your honor would let me, I could pick up
felt as he shook her hand--the dear hand  some lads that I know of, that would go to the
which he so longed to kiss, and would have  devil with your honor if he led the way ?,"
given a world to possess.                   "So you married a widow with four ehil-
*    *    *    *    *    *    *      dren, and have got three more, eh?"
The next morning, the youthful lieutenant  "Yes, your honor, and, another on the
was busy in superintending the rigging of the stocks."
-vessel which he was to command, when an old  "Well, I'll see about your transfer.- But
seaman approached him, and touching his hat, remember, I owe you a grudge for killing my
said :                                   game!"         -
"May I be so bold as to ask a favor of your The commodore and several officers now
honor?"                                   approached Barney, and the seaman departed,
"Yes--what do you want? Your name is well pleased with the result of his interview
Thompson, isn't it? You sailed on board the. with the officer who owed him a grudge for
Wasp-I remember, I owe you a grudge I saving his life.

I

is

12


14             THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.G

CHAPTER VIII.
MIsTRRSS AND SERVANT.
" What do you think of that young officer  "Yes, ma'am--shall I put it in the parlor,
who dinedl with father to-day, Eliza' asked  ma'am?-
Cra f it ford of her dressing-maid,as she was  "No-you may give it to Toomas, and tell
p'r'ari.g her long dark tresses, and making  him to take it down to the sloop Sachem, for
iwr mbi.t toilet before retiring, after she had  Lieutenant Barney, in the morning when he
pat to  rim Barney, taking good care to invite goes to market. Tell him to be sure not to
i m to call a;an, before she said good nigt  tell who sCott it."
ie lous like a man. Miss Cora-not like  "adn't 1 better take it myself; ma'am?
.   - -p.min-shanked, silk -tockinged, ruffled- Them riggers is 'tupid."
hooma      adteoes thatstrut through the streets  "As you like, Eliza. Perhaps you may find
wiri ra- tae in their hands. ie'd make ahus- a substitute for Corporal Drill, on board the
v'l rr h ats iog  if I was only a lady, I d  sloop
" ,,, ; }  ,"iuce, if he'd only offer to marry  " There you are again, Miss Cora, tantiva
' 'tiue me about tat loister-back
"l e  -ry y-ung yet!" said the lady,     Toe girl departed, and in a few moment,
r. r .vat it hide the smile which rose at sweet Cora Bedford was asleep  Pernaps she
t'e- hoieet e rnestness of the manner in which  was dreaming of the young lieutenant Qufen
tti- sziil ex pres s d her opinion. sabe ?
- Nt itoy going to make a good husband !"   It was not very early on the next morning
sail the girl.' " I've earn tell that them as  when Cora awakened, for it had been late
nacrr aes voong, bte fre they know what it is to  when she retired, the night before.
h   a l aol wild, always make the best sort of  Eliza who wa not a bad-looking girl, was
r,  r  E n  '".    ~                       up, lr,' si-l as neatly as a pin.
i 'ior ,  v asv sadoi are very incontant   " Your cheeks look as rosy and fresh as the
-.,--'a '-sietlheart is every port!"       inside of a- watermelon, Eliza," said Cora, as
' L-a'i- Mi's Cora, you don't believe all she woke. "Have j oir been out's"'
3iu ,hA'r ! For my part,1 like sailors they're I 1"Yes, ma'am-I was up before sunrise, and
always s  o july and free-hearted. I wish I had  picked the flowers before the dew was off."
one for a liver lied get lots of prize money,  ' Dial you carry thine down to thu vessel ?
and 1'd drees as fine as a lady, almost?"   and dii you see the lieutenant?"
Suppose ie should get killed in action l"  "No, mia'arn, hui I left the flowers with a
" 1 d cry my ey es half out of my head, Miss boy, who sati he'd give 'em to him as soon as
Cora "                                     he iurnd out.'
"" And then get another one to wipe them   " Turrud out!  What does that mean 5"
away etb. Eoiza '                             " I don't a nhw na'arn-I suppose it's itome
" La me-Miss Cora, how you do like to thing in seafishiotogy. '
tease in. I ain't one of them croquettes. as  " Fo hiology ! You ieanphrascology, do you
they call 'Ctru! If I had a beau, I'd be as true  not"'
ail---""' I don't htnow, Miss Cora-it-s tome kind
You were to Corporal Drill!' said the of olo /, though "
voung lady, laughingly finishing the sentence  " % iii. lid you find a substitute for Corpo-
for her                                     ral Drill?'
"La me, Mils Cora, there you are again,    "No, ma'am-but I had juet four or five
tuasing rme about that lobster-back. When he  worse .iih a riman that said his 'same was Jim
pair his distresses to me, there wasn't any T'l'h rn-mpn. lie said be was waiting toses the
war   You know I'm too good an American    lheuteouant. I liked him for one thing, though
to love one of my country's foes. In I had  he waso reitther s young or handsome. lIe seid
tt here I'd scratch his eyes out-I'd as- he ha'd   '-d tlihlieutenant's life by sticking
sasi.neate him with the carving knife, so I  a  i itis 'flier that had his cutlash raised to
would!"                                    kill iu  lhen le was down on the deck
" Well, I have no doubt you would, Eliza. Yri d ought to have heard the sailor tell how
But you can go, now; call me e irly ; and,  e did it, ua'ar-it was so romantic. IIe said
Eliza you can ptck a very handsome boquet he sinet himt ight in the gizzudi, just as if
in tle m. ruing  Let it be of red moss roses, he'd he- u  pig  -
blue violets, arid  white lilies. Put a bunch  "Well, ihe' ri! do-you can help me to
ni foriget me nets in the centre" "dress noi, Eliza."

A

CHAPTER IX.
THE BOQUET.

"When will you have your craft ready for
sea, sir?" asked Commodore Hopkins, when
he approached Barney.
"Within four days, sir-possibly in three."
"You have been in a hurry, air."
"I have, commodore  I owe the English a
grudge, and I want to be hammering away at
them again."
"Well, sir, you'll soon have a chance. They
are ranging all along our coast. I hope your
good fortune will continue, and that you will
soon bring in' some more prizes."
"Thank you. commodore. If Capt. Alex.
ander has no objection, I would ask afavor !"
"I would refuse you nothing, my dear fel-
low," said the last named officer.
"One of your quarter gunners, Jim Thomp-
son, wants to be transferred to my command.
I owe the follow a grudge, for be killed the
captain of the brig, you remember."
" Yes, and saved your life. That's a strange
thine to hold a grudge against.a man for."
S'' Well, it was a matter of precedence-the
officer was my game. But can I have the
man, sir ?'             '      .'
"Certainly ; he is a good seaman, and I'll
spare him to you. And now, comrmodore, if
you and the officers will have the kindness to
step into the little cabin of the Sachem, I will..
produce an excellent fogmatie in the shape of
some fine old Jamaica. It must he good, for
it was imported expressly for our use in the
brig whichthe Wasp captured the other day I"
The officers of course would not injure the
reputation of the service by refusing an invi--
tation of that kind, and soon were in Barney's
snug little cabin.
"Ah, Mr. Barney, here's a signal that you've
been within hail of some other craft than the
British brig-brought her to, maybe, for Isee
you've captured the colors!" cried the com-
modo're p iming t' a bouquet, which, for want
of a flower vase, was stuck in the neck of a
porter bottle
"The colors are red, white and blue. com-
modore, and shallnever be struck to or by me,
while I live. That nosegay was sent to me
from shore by some one, I know not whom--
but a patriot I suppose, from the choice of
colors."
' And one that wants a place in your mem-
ory," said Alexander, pointing to the forget-
me'nots.

"Some favored fair. Be careful, lieutenant,
that some of the handsome Quaker girls don't
win you over on the peace question. By-the-
way, some one mentioned to me that some of
you young officers thrashed some of the citi-
zens night before last; how was it ?"
',I only punished a puppy for insulting me
and threatening to insult a lady, sir.- It wasa
trifling affair, not worth mentioning," said
Barney.
"Perhaps so-but you must be cautious
about offending the citizens or getting into
difficulty with them. Our navy is in its in-
fancy-if people become prejudiced against
the child, it will be fed badly, and will grow
slowly."
"True, sir-butI was provoked into this
quarrel. The parties who forced the trouble
on were very heavily fined."
" And were you not punished ?"
"Yes, sir-I was forced to eat an excellent
dinner with the magistrate, who keeps the
best wine in the city I"
"I shouldn't mind receiving such punish-
ment occasionally myself," said Alexander.
"I think, as St. Paul said to Timothy, I could
'take it for my stomach's sake."
"And 'thine often infirmities,' added Bar-
ney, with a laugh. "But, gentlemen, this
isn't the rum. There it is, 'in the original
package,' as other importers say; here is some
sugar which came from the same market, and
those lemons were also consigned to us by his
Britannic majesty's brig Tender. Help yout-
selves."
Soon the anti-fogmatic, prepared according
to a recipe .of the celebrated Phineas Car-
buncle, was mixed, and success to the Sachem
and her brave young commander was drank.
Alexander, who only wanted a good excuse to
repeat the dose, proposed the health of the fair
iucognito who had sent Barney the bouquet.
This brought a blush to our hero's cheek, and a
second.glass to his lips; then he excused him-
self and hastened to his duty.
"That young man will be an honor to -the
service I" said the commodore. "He has got
just enough of the devil in him to get him into
scrapes, and is cool enough to work his way,
out of them. I only hope he won't make a fool
of himself by falling in love? A fellow in love
ia't worth much aboard ship i"
"Permit me to disagree with you, commo-

I

TILE MAN-0'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.


THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN S GRUDGE.

dore !' said Captain Alexander.  "I don't
care how much a fellow is in love, provided
he don't get married, and knock the romance
of the thing overboard. While he is in love,
he is ever ambitious to distinguish himself,
and win the admiration of her whose affections
he would secure. He is anxious to outdo all
others, often almost rash and desperate ; but I
agree with you that after he is married, he is

careful of his life, apt to be homesick, and
rather a shaky stick I"
"You may be right, sir," replied the old
commodore, "but all that I want my officers
to do now is to love their flag and do their
duty. But we will pay a visit to the Wasp
now, and see how she looks."
The officers departed, not, however, without
again complimenting Barney on his skill and
promptness in getting his craft ready for sea.

r
4
?i
- ft
,Fya

- 7.7

i
4
f T       +k
,t
.    1 ' 777YYY
i       r
P
t

CHAPTER X.

THR MORNING CALL.

}
f[
3
{
1((
t
F
i
r
r
i
r
}
t

Jim .Thompson-that is, only one of 'em; I
gave him a bachelor's button, just to see what
he'd say !"
"What did he say, Eliza?"
"Why, he said, ma'am, that posies was well
in their way, for them that liked them, but he
liked the smell of fresh tar better !"
"Was that all?"
"Not exactly, ma'am. He said my cheeks
looked like thesouthern side of a couple of big
red apples, just ripe and fit for eating !"
"Well, what answer did you make-did
you tell him to take a bite I"
"No, ma'am-for just then the lieutenant
came on to the wharf and made a bow as po-
lite as if I was a lady. I curtsied clear to the
ground. 'Are those flowers for me, my pret-
ty maid?' he asked. 'Yes, sir, they be,' I
said. 'Then you are the fairy messenger that
brought me a bouquet yesterday,' he said. 'I
be,' I said. 'There is a guinea for you, my
pretty maid,' he said-' and now you'll tellme
who sent them, will you not?' 'I can't,' said
I-' my mistress told me not to!' 'I saw you
at Alderman Bedford's a couple of days ago
didn't I?' he asked. 'In course you did, sir!'
said I."
"Then you let the cat out of the bag, you
stupid girl !" cried Cora, half in anger.
" Lawks, no, ma'am, I didn't-I hadn't no
cat. nor any bag either-though I did think,
before I started, of taking the old gray cat's
litter of kittens down and drowning them,
they're a mewling around in the way, and
aren't of any use !"
"Did the lieutenant say no more ?"
"Yes, ma'am-he asked if you were well.

x

16

z
s
i .'

C

Another morning had arrived. The sun,
audacious dog, had just peeped in through the
delicate curtain of the eastern window of Miss
Cora Bedford's chamber, and had actually
caught her in a lovely undress, making a morn-
ing toilet ; but not having a tongue, though
eyes he surely hath, he could not reveal the
secret mysteries by which the sex make them-
selves so angelic in appearance in the morn-
ing. A man generally gets up drowsy-eyed
and yawning, comes forth with frowsy hair,
not always with "unwrinkled front," espe-
cially in the linen line-looking for all the
world like a Dutch doll washedin dirty water
and badly ironed out.
Miss Cora had not quite finished her toilet,
when, with the freedom of a petted servant,
Eliza, her handmaiden, entered.
"I've seen him  again, Miss Cora !" she
cried. "I thought i'd promenade a little in
the. staluberous air before you got up, so I
picked a bunch of flowers and went down to
the side of the river, and there I met him a
singin' such a nice song-it was so grand, all
about Sandy the oysterman I'
"Who, the lieutenant. Eliza?"
"No, ma'am--Jim Thompson-him that
stuck the British ossifer in the gizzard and
paved the leftenant's life."
" Ah ! your new substitute for the poor late
lamented Corporal Drill!"
"There you are again about that lobster-
back, Miss Corn! I do wish him and his
memory was sunk in the depths of Elysium,
where there is gnashing and wailing of teeth,
as Parson Sternhold saya. But I saw sone
one else, ma'am. I didn't give the flowers to

f

s '
Y
E
r
{
s
{
t
k
j j
jSj}(3
i
j{
j{{4
f
{
f
3
M


# t
I!
P

T HE MAN-O'-WAR'S
and said if you were disengaged, he'd call and
see you this evening. for he expected to sail in
a short time. I told him I didn't think you
was engaged, for I knowed that you'd give
more than a dozen chaps the mitten that had
come insinervatin'their distresses 'round you."
"Stupid fool !"
"There you go again, ma'am-ahusin' me
when I did my best to do right. Wish I was
dead, so I do I"
"Never mind, Eliza-I know you meant all
for the best, but in future rememberand never
speak of me to a person who is almost a
stranger, Come, dry your eyes-I am not
angry with you !"
"I didn't mean to overstep the line of
maiden perspicuity, ma'am. I'll never con-
glomerate a mistake again, ma'am. I'll go and
tell him you are engaged if you wish me to!,"
"No, save yourself the trouble, Eliza; such
matters willnot interest him-he cares nothing
for me !"
"You would think different, ma'am, if you
could only have seen how anxious-like he
inquired after your precious health!"

CHAPTElF XI.
A            AN AGREEABLE TETE-A-TI ?S.
It was evening. All the cares and business  going got stretched and whity, the sails mill-
of the day was over; at least as far as con- dewed, the planks a bit worm-eaten, and the
earned our friend Alderman Bedford. Seated colors faded, if you don t paint and dress her
in his favorite arm-chair, his feet encased in up soon, she don't look as if she was " worth
slippers worked by the hands of his petted shucks" in the market
daughter, his rotund form encased in his flan- "Is there anything new out this evening,
nel-lined dressing gown, and a pipe in his dear father?" asked Cora, as she seated her-
mouth he looked as comfortable as the man  self near her sire.
who didn't care a darn how soor the world    "Nothing. except that the blasted old tory,
'-broke," because he didn't owe him  any- Elliott, has shown his colors et last. ie has
thing                                      been selling off everything he could for some
Miss Cora was there--her dark hair dressed time, and to day ihe cleared out, hag and bag-
with unusual care, and in it placed a single  age, with that precious son of his."
cluster of '"forget-me note."  Her graceful  "Gone to New York to join the British,
form was robed very neatly, in a manner to hasn't he father ?"
display modestly its every beauty, bit she   "So it is reported to-night. It is said that
wore no ornamer' to  Beauty like hers never the son is to have a connission in the English
requires any. A women is something like a army."
vessel-tnen a craft is new, everything fresh  "I'm glad of it, father."
and brrtnt-nulls. spars canvas, rigging, ban.  "Wby so, child?"
ners end all, she requires scarce a touch of  "Because, he'll be caught by some of our
paint to rnke her look well. But a'ter she  gallant officers, and he 'aught to dance the
has been banged about for a while g ne a few traitor dance, with a beam o wood over him,
rough vsy ages, and met a few storms, the rig- and nothing under himl I wish-"

MAN'S GRUDGE.                         19
"Well, go down and see how near breakfast
is ready-my appetite is in a healthy con-
dition!"
"So is mine, ma'am, the atmosphere is so
bracing, and the breeze so staluberous !" said
the girl, leaving the room.
"Can it be possible that the brave, hand-
some young officer thinks anything of me ?"
said Cora, when she was alone.' "I fear that
if he does, Eliza, so forward and impudent,
will make him think me weak-minded and for-
ward too. A conquest easily made is never
valued. If he comes, I will be reserved and
distant, though the fluttering in my heart
when his name is mentioned seems strange. I
like him-I dare saythat to myself--I like him '
better than-"
"Breakfast is ready, ma'am-can't you
smell the beefsteak and the ingyuns? aren't
they delicious ?" said Eliza, popping her head
in at the door.
Under the circumstances, reader, not wish-
ing to intrude upon the matinal meal, we will
close this chapter.

f
6
t
a
t
i
g
E
t

4
' 4
9
7
a
E
f
s
i
t
1
i
t
jp3

M
Y.


TUE MAN)--WA I '-MAN S GRUDGE.

3
f
4
t

21

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

"Did you issue a warrant, father?'' asked  "You'll visit us again before you sail, will
Cora.                                     you not?" asked the Alderman.
"oa, my  .irl the tailor said his wife was  " Certainly i Do come before you go" d-
a shrew and a drunkard; and I told the fool ded Cora, warmly, forgetful of the resolution
that if I settled the case I'd award a compen- of chilliness and reserve which she had made
action from him to the barber for carrying her in the morning.
off. So he has gone elsewhere to get legal  'I will try and do so," said Barney, "but
satisfaction. Asd now, Cora, if you'll order my duties confine me durngthe day."
up a bottle of wine, and some cake. of your  He now made hi       n     a     Cr
own mttltn, we 11 take a little comfort."  had noticed his delicacy in mentioing her.
It was  a pleasant evening which Barney  flower gift, and appreciate   h d his modesty.
passed, and a cloud of sadness rose upon his How she felt when she retired that night, we
face when the old-fashioned clock admonished cannot say, of course, but it is reasonable to
him that it was time to retire.           infer that if she dreamed, he was a subject.

"Lienfenant Darney wishes to be denoune- Belf' at home;- I'll be bac  son     n    el
n                 eyisbaed," sail  eut~rin  a tat moment.  brak a bottle of old port!" continued the
Anin iw 'l.1. o'c s/tu1'!  Show him in,"  Aldermen.
said Cara, hiLhiiti: as ntis name was uttered,  .. Will you not need your clerk, father?"
"Ah, lieutenant, most welcome ! We are     asked Cora.
glad  t      1 ee  oi-1 felt rather lonesome !''said  "I reckon not, my bonny girl--'ll call you
the Adrihn, riin  and warmly shaking   if I co   Stay and kcep the lieutenant from
hands   it his visit)r.                     goinc to sleep till I come back,!''
"I don't see how   you could be lonesome     "No dan      o      f             .
t         ftr  ahter by your side !" said    company !" said Barney, blushing at his own
Barney, returni~i. the shake of his hand, and  temrerity in paying so open a com liment to
bowin.4 to ti ti usilci; gi.              her.p
"N Lt ery, my young friend-the girl is    h"Ten you are to sail in two dayslieu
vain enouL;h, now  As to beiog lonesome with  tenant?' said Cora.yi
her au-, wny I have h-r by me, you see, all     es .    s  Bd ford - I
the ui n''. and hve got so used to her com-  i so                cannot rest easy
pany--                    usdt     e         while our coast is blbekadled by those haughty
"'r t yi wou'd mi her very much if she Britons. I owe them a bitter grudge 1"
was aste!'vaddedharney(       You seem   t owe almost every one a
a i r  atp-l shruly             Igrudleu " sail rhe, laughingl.
Sb  'i  .o's au     t clly when       " Not my friends ! Miss Bedford ; though I
a   !    t      r                 kdotbeyrdge your fahr one thing !" he stam-
th'e - n.t.'l ,ie'o in ti'city, and knows more  ic  rd, blushing to the very temples.
hav  , . .r '- ne' twe    brHseutenant  t        y father!  What is that ? hi3 office as
"I     h  r l,  ir. that  lieutadntE      an Alderman ?"asked Cora,'ith an arch look.
men- .   a.a   ockdr.ithit a squadron of English  t"No, Miss Bedford ; it is the possession of
Dew ir         'm ocadiown the mouth of the  the love of such an angel as you are '
d     'r         ..~o --a'ti   si  down in a couple of  It was now her turn to blush and evince
1oa. .'"of roiyold grudge out of confusion-
h,;i  i  cman catch one away from the  B                   -:rneyt
man r1ey having totlmt) the                                                    breakers
A            voo r i ole vessel 9 ' asked  thought he would fl sunder throng h.    '
e    only a rough sailor, Miss Bedford,"
rorete-th                 he continued; "but I" e got a tecir;, and I be-
' h"vetoo,,ord o       aeitetter than three  oeve it is stowed in the right place. I cannot
or 1ic hive too large a force to op.italk as some of the well eduested, poetry-
ou N        .i         an                    readog abore-chaps may. but t.:e  annotfeel
ow     r '5  K ti we cii. pounce on sons   more than I do. Please forgive roe for saymg
w       .       ou all  But,Alderman, as much as I have-i could ar help it. I nave
T h       a s wh,u nlupred r mt led t.only one favor to ast, and II  never trouble
'T f,,i                     ulnm-Th1l c-he  von again until you teil me t yourself. Just
,  ' itr       tirhave fled to     give nie one of your dai k tr eies of hair, to
T         i      - '  a  ie    iott, I eo m a. wma 1 Co yermy heart in the b-,ur cf b ine, and
;" ndedi        '         iBa    s    " on.  win ever etcive to be worthyi f our esteem,
( '   f   !  iihl  is dBanye n if I love att hopelss of a rerunn."
Sa  es were ir her darce'--. ahtherm o
.. ,    r t ifnext, tiurnImeet him I coini'id ;'er-tc o'f yors, h.,, 15  10' ih'iom
the t'e cit     g a      outr of a traitwrm'e of human nature "rahls sme tr tell
"                                          :tt.  iis tie gr   we  him. " 'igedlfie e t  tide. Aud hier white hand
tVoe  iad ho1e  .o awillcstrn him. I lit e  tembhd as, without utterina word, she took
to ee iii anr his cled father strung up by the  a pair of scissors from a t 'he ny her ei e, and
heels tI ''e .  i uel to like tlihe oau- '  'ririg a glossy ti'( 55. aPediito  n
he was v'ery fon- of capons, and an arnaz-     He oresrse  trasnded it tasun
good jit'tr"  of wine !'             mr  'eiUruy to hii lies as
"Mr IM frd.tbere'sFOver ei'wasigitof olden lime kzr the favor
Mr B-f 'rI the e's rnie wisitations at  of his ladyde faire," aird r c e'i oeod it in his
the der that wmnt to have an interview with  los in. Hardly hrl liedontientdinhr.
your honor in the office." si Eit                                 done ibis atid par-.
yo thdoior if the oidgr      iz , corning  tidl y regained his composite, before the Al-
to tihe door cit thee ittIcg-room.           (hrman returned.
" Tf 1( thl m i11l be do wn direct? --it'anreurnd.
Time fo o hi    I  I downdiectl ' no    kneww they wouldn't call for mea at this
time for court p a rat I wonder who they can  hour for anything worth noticing r. Tue ninth
be-p'rta1fs  a warrant is wantedora lae r- hart of a man, a tailor, wanted inc to get out
rest ot some io r devil for stealing a loaf of a warrant against a barber (~r luuinii g away
bread-they generally take night time to      with his wife. I advised him to setl thy
bother ue on such important buqines !"     affair according to the rules of hne   wthe
growled the Alderan, as he rose from his easy. their professional weapons-shars against
chair    e                                   razors, the goose against the curling tongs I"
'i3Make yourself easy, lieutenant; feel your-  he maid, laughing heartily.  gug     r

'iF
{{
* te
-.1
it
if
I'
i

IF

20

' ~a
-j
ii
*
Sc

CHAPTER XII.
READY F R     SEA'.
. The Sachem was ready. Her armament, Jim Thompson acting gunner, although he re-
one long eighteen and eight twenty-four pound minded. him when he did so, of the grudge
cannonades, four on a side, was mounted. She which he owed him. his crewdwas made up
was supplied with muskets, pistols, cutlases, mostly of that daring andI hardy e ass-"-the
battle axes and boarding pikes for a crew of Chesapeake and Delaware bay men-who tire
severity men. On the evening of the day on  almost born en, and always brought up on the
which he had promised to have her ready,when water, in the fishing, oyster and maret sloops
Ce sn was yet two hours high, the national and' chooners ihich throng those waters.
ensign and pennant were hoisted, and a salute And no better men for a service like that re-
fired. She was in commission. Both of Bar- quired at that period, could be found or desired.
ney's lieutenants were older than himself ; but  After the salute was fired, and the "main
this was an advantage rather than otherwise, brace spliced," according to custom from time
for they were tried and experienced men, cal- immemorial, Barney caused his vessel to be
elated to aid him with advice, and assist him hauled off into the stream, to keep the crew
in the hour of trial.                     on board and prevent anxious friends from dis
The oldest, Seth Yarnall, his first officer, was heartening them with farewell sighs and tears
a genuine Cape Cod Yankee ; slow',,but sure; and forbodings. After all the boats had been
methodical as a clock in his habits ; of un- hoisted to the davits, with the exception of his
daunted courage, and a man of exceeding own gig, he had the latter manned, and saying
foresight and forethought. You could never that he would be back early, and would sail
mention anything that he hadn't thought of with the first of the ebb tide at daylight in the
before, nor could anything occur that he hadn't morning, he pushed for the shore-
foreseen. He was a tall, dried-up, muscular  Giving the crew of the boat a few shillings
man, without an ounce of superfluous flesh on to drink his health with, be bade them wait
his large-boned body. iHe was fond of an oc- for his return, and hastened up to the house of
casional glass of "spirits," but they never the worthy Alderman.
disturbed his equilibrium.  He hated an    That worthy gentleman was rejoiced to see
Englishman with fervor, but a "parlez vous .,him; and though her tongue was chary in its
frog-eating Frenchman," more than he did an expressions, the eyes of Cora beamed a glad
Eosgiishman.                             welcome to the visiter.
The second officer, Mr. Yates, who also   "Were those your bull-dogs which I heard
acted as sailing master, was an active and cx-' barking a little while before sundown,lieuten-
perienced New Yorker, who knew his duti ant?'" asked the Alderman-
bnth below and aloft. Barney had also two sir," repliedthe officer, they were t dpup-
Xnater's mates allotted to him. He had madesireldthofcr,"eywe sep-

i


(I

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

k
f
R
r
t
.
i ,
i .
. -
;
,
,
r
t
c

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

pies which make the British lion howl as
he shrinks off with the nails torn from his
dlews1!"
"Teir bark was pretty sharp !" said the
Alderman.
"Their bite will be found sharper and
harsher than their bark," said the Lieutenant.,
"as I hope to sail in the morning at sunrise!"
"So soon ." asked Cora. turning pale.
"Yes, fair lady. I merely came on shore to
bid yopreelf and father farewell, and to thank
you for your kindness to me. Also, 10 say
that if ever the arm of Joshua Barney can
render you any aid, it and his life are devotedly
at your service.  Times are perilous - the
chances of war are precarious. Although I
have sot the slightest doubt that the ultimate
result of this war will be our independence,
and it recognized by England and all the
world; et long and bloody may be the strug-
gle. We are weak in numbers, in munitions,
in money, in friends; strong only in the justice
of our cause. New York is already in the
hands of the enemy. With a powerful army
on shore, and an immense fleet afloat, they
will probably turn their eyes to this city, and,
though we can make them pay dearly for their
conquest, they probably may take it. If so,
you must fly to the interior-they never will
dare to force our countrymen to battle in the
forest and amid the defiles of the mountains.
If they do, we will slay them as the hurter
does the deer, by thousands. My duty will be
upon the ocean, the bay and the river. If I

live and ever can serve you, depend upon
me!'
"We will, Mr. Barney," said Cora. "but
you paint a gloomy picture. Let us hope for
the best, and most especially will my father
and myself pray for your safety"
"Yes, it is a gloomy picture," added the
worthy Alderman. "Bring up a bottle of
port, Cora, darling, and let us see if e cannot
rigaten the colors a little l"
It was a sadly pleasant evening which Bar-
ney passed, and, at an early hour for him, he
arose to retire. Tears were glistening like
diamonds in the beautiful eyes of Cora as she
bade him farewell. Nor did she withdraw the
trembling hand which he pressed to his lips.
"Good bye--God bless you, lieutenant! I
wish you good luck and plenty of prize money,
without a scar to mar your good looks !'' said
the Alderman, as he warmly shook his hand.
"have your boat ashore at daylight. I want
to send you a few dozen of wine, to keep us
in memory while you are gone! '      p
I do not need the wine to cause remem-
brance, my dear sir! '' said Barney, glancing
at Cora-" but the boat shall be sent'g
Another lingering look-once more the sad
farewell repeated, and then the young officer
hastened to his vessel.
o' one thing he felt certain--if Cora did
not exactly love him, she felt an interest in
him, a very friendly interest, and took no pains
to conceal it. Another thing he knew.  ie
loved her!

t
(4

Hif
1
r
P Y
. tt
T ff1
i
1}
his
E
t
}
f
i
t
{
3
f4
f
r
3
r

CHAPTER XIII.
THE    DEPARTURE.
The sun arose, and, from a sky as cloudless ney knew how necessary it was at once to pro.
as the face of young innocence when it plays pare his gallant crew to meet a skillful foe,
amid sowers, looked down upon the dimpled  whose boast was that "irtanuia ruled the
body of the Delaware, which, ruffled by a gen- wave."
tle breeze from the northward and westward,  Had the gallant and ill fated Lawrence only
flowed past the city of Brotherly Love. The did this, and drilled his green crew oefore he
cable of the Sachem was hove short; her sails went out to engage the Stannon, with her
were loosed, and Barney only waited for the picked men, well disciplied and prepared, we
boat which he had sent on shore. Soon, im- never would have had to regret the loss of the
spelled by six sturdy oarsmen, it left the wharf, Chesapeake, nor would he in his dying agony
and in a few moments was alongside. The   have uttered in vain-" Don't give up the
coxswain sprang on board, and handed Barney ship."
a beautiful bouquet and a package. He knew Yarnall, who was every inch a mn, was as
from whose dear hand the first came, and also busy as an eel in a frying pan, encouraging
the second, when he unfolded it, and found it one, darning another for a booby, crying out
to be a beautiful flag.                   that "practice makes perfect," &amp;c.
He instantly ordered the banner to be     His temper never got the better of him.
hoisted at the fore--and as its silken folds Even when one of the greenest hands aci-
opened to the breeze, nine spontaneous cheers dentally stuck nearly an inch of the point of
sprung from the lips of the gallant men who  a boarding-pike into that not too fleshy por-
stood beneath it, and the long eighteen gave tion of his body which he ddnomisated his
voice in a tone which echoed like rattling "latter eend," he only said, as he rubbed the
thunder along the broad streets of the city, afflicted part with his hand-
Atthe same moment a white kerchief was    "Darn ye-I knowed you'd stick that 'ere
seen waving on the wharf, and Barney did not boardin' spike inter soon fool or 'nother !"
need a spy-glass to discover whose hand held With the exception of the time occupied by
it.                                       the men at their meals. the day was mostly
"Get under way at once, Mr. Yarnall!" he passed in exercise. Night drew its mantle
said-"the tide' serves and the wind is ri- over the bosom of the ocean just as the open
sing."                                    sea could be seenfromthe deeaof the Sachem.
"Yes, sir," replied the first luff," I foresee She had no stars to button the mantle up
a cap full of wind before night!" and obeying with ; dark clouds, which had been gathering
orders, the pretty craft was soon shooting  all the afternoon, had thickened overhead, and
down the stream under a full spread of can- there was every appearance of a nasty night.
vas.                                        Tis Barney did not regret much-the
"We're going to have luck this cruise, darkness, at least-for several white specks
eap'n !" said Yarnall, as the vessel stood gal- in the offing reminded him of the blockade,
lantly on her course. "I foresee it I I dreamed and he wished a chance to slip out and gain
of prize money, all night, and when I woke sea room. He had intended to make a cruise
I had the taste of sperits in my moth !"  toward the West Indies, where he stood a
"Perhaps you took a nip just before you chance to pick up a valuable prize or two.
turned in !"                                The wind freshened after the sun went down
"I reckon I did-it's my custom, as a gene- -so much that they had to shorten sail.
ral thing; that is, when its tew be had."   "Didn't I foresee that= this was coming ?"
"Well, suppose we take a nipper now, just said Yarnall.. "I knowed it ! Before morn-
to bring us luck."                        ing we'll be lyin' tew waitin' for it to mode-
"It runs again my grain to refuse, cap'n- rate down-see if we arn't !"
sperits and my constitution always did agree.  "We'll have to keep a bright look out for
Mr. Yates, I resign the charge of the deck tew the enemy's ships," said Barney.
you, while cap n and I go below to look at the "I always dew-I sleep with one eye open
chart," said the lieutenant, in his usual dry reg'lar," said YarnalL.
way. He never smiled-would tell the most    "We had better put out every light on
laughable story with a sign of humor on his board except one in my state-room and the
bluish looking face.                     one in the binnacle," continued Barney.
After "the chart" had been duly examined,  "I was jest a going' to have it done," said
Barney and his first luff came on deck. The  the thoughtful lieutenant.  "Ned Yarnall is
men were called to quarters, and for hours ex- up tew snuff, I tell you, cap'n. When a John-
ercised at their guns, drilled at small arms, ny Bull gets the weather gauge of me, I'll
taught to board and repel boarders, de. Bar- agree to go without speritsfor a year."

_- (
.
1
.
R
"
.
.;t+
+3
r
c

- 28

22


THE MAN-O'-WAR S-MAN'S GRUDGE.
CHAPTER XIV.
Twit INTraiViEW AIiD C COMMISSION.

.
#.
' i
:-
.
i
J.

I

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN S GRUDGE.

General Howe sat in his private apartment
at his quarters in the city of New York. The
table before him was covered with papers and
maps. A look of care and aoxrety pervaded
his countenance. lie had just dismissed a
council of officers, and was determining upon
a plan to force Washington, with his ill-fed,
unpaid, half-elothed and discontended army,
into a a general action, by which at a blow
he could crush him. He was, in fact, plan-
ning the movements which, by the activity,
restless daring and consuniinste skill of the
American chief, were foiled no  te plaius of
New' Jersey--which were displayed in his
movements as lie retreated towedr' Morris-
town, &amp;c.  Although the general hme bien
successful in his advent, capturio  Ne w York,
and defeating the American army on Long
Island, he had done nothing Sirce, and ex-
pected to be superseded.
an orderly announced Plaatag' net Elliott,
Esnjuire, and son.
admit the gen lenen at once," he said.
Then, as the orderly retired, he added, - The
very persons I wish to see. They probably
will know all about the range of country on
the Delaware, and the strength of the rebels.
it is singular, that 'wi ran army of veterans
we have so much trouble in subduing a dis-
organized mass of raw militia. Their Com-
mander-in-chief, too, was not bred a soldier,
while I have been reared to toe study and
practice of military rnanouvres.-'
Elliott and his son, the later much im-
proved in his appearance since we last saw
him "in court," was now ushered in-
I am glad to ses you, my loyal friend,"
said the general, as he arose and warmly wel-
comed the base tory. " This is your son, eh?
A fine looking young man--has he concluded
to accept a cormmisiou in his Majesty's ser-
vice % '
le has, general- -I am  "oud to say that
he is as loyal as myself."
" Then I am sure of his loyalty, my good
friend. He shadi be commissioned immediate-
ly, and I will place him upon my staff"
General, you are very kind. We are bound
to y ou by a thousand obligations"
Do not speak of it, tir. Elliott. Your
loyalty and devotion to King George shall be
well rewarded. And now, by the way, I wish
to ast yourself and son many questions, on
points wher in I find it difficult to obtain re-
liable information. I propose shortly to make
a descent upon Philadelphia."

".

[25

r

CHAPTER XV.
THE ENEMV IN SIGHT.

K #

iI
Ii
Ii

t
I
.f
:,
t

t
I
i

The eyes of the younger Elliott flashed
with joy as he heard this.
"The city is not very well guarded, is it?"
asked the general.
"The city is not, general," said the young
man-" but the river below has several pas-
ses which are strongly fortified. If the city
was once captured by land, by a force march-
ing from here, or landing frorm the Chesa-
peake, and crossing over, then the rebels
might desert their works in the river."
" True, my young friend-you seem to have
some idea of military movements. Would
the citizens of Philadelphia  e apt to resist
the occupation of the city very strongly ?"
"Very many of them, general, are Quakers.
aid of course non-combatrants. Were thtu
assured of protection to private property. ani
no warike interference, they would remain.
if your movements v er    secret, and you
could seize others whom I could point out as
influential men, by holding them as hostages
you could control a large portion of others,
who will n.t desert their business if they eii
help it, and who have not yet taken up arms
on the rebel side, although they lean that -
way.
"You seem to take a right view of things,
young man. I deem myself fortunate in se.
curing you as a member of my military fami-
ly. Of course you are well acquainted with
the section of country within the limits of
the states of New Jersey, Delaware and Penn-
sylvaniar
"I am, sir-I have traveled or hunted over
every part of those states."
"You will be invaluable to me. Your com
mission shall be made out at once. I will or-
der my own staff tailor to call and measure
you for your uniforms. You are under paty
from the date of your father's letter acceptin'
my propositions."
" Thank you, General. You will ever find
me loyal."
After they had withdra wn from the audi-
ence, the younger Elliott no longer concealed
from his father the joy which fitted his breast
as he heard Howe reveal his intention of taking
Philadelphia.
"My day of revenge is not far distant" he
cried. "I'll make three hearts bleed. They
shall rue and remember the day when they
humiliated Henry Elliott!"
"That's right, my brave boy l" said thd
father. "You have the blood of the Plautag-
nets in your veins."

"I knowed it! Didn't I tell you last night,
eap'n, that we'd he lyin' tew beforedai light I"
said Yarnall, as Barney came on deck on the
morning after the Sachem bad left the Capes
of the Delaware.
' Is there anything in sight!' asked the
young commander.
Nothing but clouds and water, both of 'em
as rough as a Christian's road tew glory," re-
plied the lieutenant.
"It is cold and raw this morning," contin-
ued the commander.
"I was jest a thinhin' it was. I don't think
a glass of sperits would hurt a chap's innards
dreadful bad this mornin'-dew you, cap'n ?"
"No, I think not, Mr. Yarnall; I'll take
charge' of the deck while you go below to try
the experiment"
"Thankee, cap'n ; our decks won't need
washing thisnirning ; the salt water has been
pitchia' intew 'em like fun for the last three
hours."
The lieutenant now shook himself like a
great Newroundland dog, for his shaggy pea.
jacket was covered wit spray,.end then he
descended to test the chemical properties of
sugar, Jamaica rum, and a slight dilution of
water. He bad been gone but a short time,
when the man at the mast-head, stationed as a
look out, sung cut:
" Sail ho I"
"Where away ?' asked Barney.
"Broad on the weatherbow, sir."
"What is she?'
"I can't exactly tell, sir, she and we are
heaving and pitching so. She is square rigged,
though, and lying to on the same tack that we
arc,
"A sail in sight, eh, sir?" said Yarnall,
coming on deck, with his color slightly im-
proved. "I cale'lated on seem' one jest about
this time o' day. If she drifts more than we.
do, she'll come within hail before night. I
foresee that"
"I wish the water was smoother-in fight-
ing and working condition, at least," mutter-
ed Barney.
"It will heAafter the blow is over-I cale'-
late on that sure," said Yarnall, looking very
wise.
To one unused to the ne aat this time the
prospect from the deck of the Sachem would
have seemed terrible. But to a lover of the
grand and magnificent ; to a sailor with poetry
in his heart ; to one who can recognize the

power of God in the tempest-in the sky-kiss-
ing waves-in the wilderness, as it sways to
the unseen hands of the mighty winmd-aswell
as in each lovely hue, each tender vein of the
frailest flowers which beautify the earth, it
was glorious. The dark blue waves, shadowed
by the rushing clouds, tipped and crested
with foam, like great snow-capped mountains,
rolled very high. The vessel at one time
seemed to climb their precipitous sides; then
again, with rapid plunge, she would dart down
into the deep water-vales, seeming as if she
was about to dive to the unknown depths of
the ocean. The wind sung through the rig-
ging, playing, as it were, "on a carp of a
thousand strings," and straining ta little can-
vas which was exposed to its fury almost to
bursting.
This was no day for exercise at arms  Toe
battery was secured with extra tackles, and
carefully housed wilh tarpaulius; the hatches
were battened down, preventer braces and
stays rove and taughtened-everythiog done,
in fact, which consummate seamarsip and
prudence dictated  Fortunately the wind was
blowing off shore, so that there was no danger
under their lee. There is nothing which a
thorough sailor dreads more than the prox-
imity of land when a gale of wind is blowing
or coming on.
As the day wore on, many an eye was turned
toward the sail which had been diseove
first after daylight. She evidently.drfted faster
than the Sachem, for by three o'clock in te
afternoon she could be seen from the deck of
the latter, and her rig-'-that of a brig-distin-
guished. But colors were not hoisted by
either vessel, for it lIlew rather too hard to
show bunting, and entirely too bara for ves-
sels to attempt toelose with each other in any
thing like hailing distance.
When night came on, the vessels were not
more than six or seven, miles apart, the brig
being on the weather beam, instoud of the
weather bow, of the Sachem .
"I reckon that's a cussed Englisher," said
Yarnsll, as he took a look at her just before
dark ; "and I foresee that if she keeps on
drifting, she'll be just two miles on our lee
quarter in the morning."
"Well,,a go9dtook-out must be kept for
1 her, especially if it lulls during the night. She
might edge down on us before we were ready,"
said Barney.
"I foresee that she'd catch a tartar, it sha

i
i
L
8
{


.26

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

"

tried to come that dodge," replied Yarnall. him Jesse with our long eighteen, if it was
"Never you fear, cap'n--old Ned Yarnall only a little smoother I But it will be bye-and-
always sleeps with one eye open."         bye. I foresee that I'm going to taste a glass
The night wore on, the first lieutenant stay- of sperits out of his hold before the sun sets.'
ing on deck until midnight, when Yates took  "I hope so," said Barney. "But she is
the mid watch, from twelve to four.       armed.
At the latter hour Yarnall was againcalled, "Yes, sir, she's got eighteen carronades ;
and when the gray of dawn began to appear, but we've got the weather guage, and can
he had Barney awakened, according to the di- knock her intew kindlin' wood with our long
rections of the latter, given the night before. eighteen; as soon as the sea is jest a leetle
As the darkness sunk away to its caverns, slicker. If she drifts further, we can edge
and the ocean waves were lighted up by the down jest a leetle at a time, like a feller shyi'
rosy smile of day-for the clouds were break- up tew a gal when he's bashful, jest so as to
ing away, though the gale was still high-the keep her in range till the wind slacks down--
strange brig was seen nearer than the night I calc'late it'll do that soon, for it has blowed
beforehand on the lee quarter of the Sache in. its hardest, and must be e'en a'most out of
"Didn't I know she'd be there 1" said Yar- breath."
nail, pointing to her triumphantly.         "Have you freshened the nip this morning
Show our colors, Mr. Yarnall," said Bar- yet, Yarnall?"
ney. "Let us see what she is."              "No, cap'n, I haint tech'd no sperits as yet.
The American flag was at once hoisted on though I don't think 'twould be very danger-
board the Sachem. Ia a short time the cross o u to try jest a teaspoonful."
of St. George was seen at the main gaff of the "Well, go below and mix your grog. I'll
stranger.                                 take the deck.'
"Right again   Old Ned Yarnall never is  "Thankee, cap'n-you're right human in
wrong. Didn't I say last night that she was a your ways, always thinkin' of the sufferin',"
cussed Britisher " cried the first luff, in ecsta- said the first luff, as he disappeared down the
cy. "And we're tew windward of him. Oh, companion way, in search of spiritual corn-
punkin sass and s apjacks, wouldn't we give fort.

ppp'''
br
Y
f  '
T
r'

'
I

CHAPTER XVI.
THE FIGHT.

,a
+
!,
r
i
,
,
t
1
t
t t
,
a
1
f

and a guernsey shirt-he wore a silk handker-
chief wound tight around his head. a his
waist belt were stuck a pair of bell-mouthed
long brass pistols, which would have carried
over an ounce ball, but which, for better effect
in a crowd, he had loaded writh buekaot,-a
handful to each. A large butcher knife, in a
leatnern scabbard, was also stuck in the same
belt. He held in his hand a weapon wheh he
had christened his "patent amputator, ' a cut.
las which had been made to order expressly
for him. It was baestet-nilted,straight, double-
edged, and weighed at least fifteen or sixteen
pounds. In his powerful grasp, it was, indeed,
a terrible weapon. With ius blueish, passion-
less face-his cool and calculating air and
peculiar dress, ne formed a picture worthy
even of a more minute description than I am
giving.
The crew were now all ready, the magazine
opened, and every one at bi' post.
" It is about time that th'e ball opened, Mr.
Yarnall," said Barney.
"I was jest a thinking so, cap'n," replied
the lieutenant. "Shan't I step below to see
what time it is, so tew enter it on the log? I
foresee that we'll take that 'ere Johny Bull in
one hour and fifteen minutes by the watch."
"Time her if you want to," said Barney,
laughing, who suspected, and not without rea-
son, that Yarnall wanted to pay his respects
to his favorite "sperrits " before going- to
work.
Edging down until within about a mile of
the Englishman, who, under her fore course,
two topsails, main spencer and jib, was wait.
ing for them, Barney hauled up on a wind and
hove the Sacheim to.
"Now, JimThompson, I want to see what
you can do with your long Tom, there i" he
cried to his gunner. "Try not tohit the spars
of the brig, I want them to stand, so that I
can take her into port, but pitch the iron into
her hull. Try and dismount some of her
guns."
"Ay, ay, sir," said the brave old seaman,
slowing his gup around on its pivot, and ela.
* vating it for the range. After it was carefully
sighted,-he applied the match, and with a an
len and spiterl roar at "spoke out," and sent
its whizzig messenger across the water.

The day wore on, and after the sun had
reached its meridian, the strength of the wind
perceptibly began to decrease. The British
brig, evidently much heavier in tonnage and
metal, as well as more fully armed than the
Sacem. showed no disposition to escape or
avoil a'combat. As the sea began to go down
with the wind, Barney hoped to be able to en-
gage her before night ; but when the sun went
down the sea was still too high to attempt to
do anything with the battery. As soon as it
was dare: the British vessel hoisted a light.
)erertined not to be outdone in politeness,
Barney did the same, giving orders to keep
a vigila'it watch upon the movements of the
other.
It was an anxious night with him. The wind
was rapidly sinking, the sea falling in height
all the time-a prospect, yes, a certainty, of a
desperate struggle with a powerful foe as soon
as h nere was light enough to work with advan-
tage. He did-not retire at all, but, wrapped in
his sea cloak, paced the deck during the entire
night, often glancing at the light which rose
and fell upon tae heaving waves so near tohim.
The cre w had their usual rest, being on watch
and watch.
At last, the welcome light of day appeared,
and Barney saw that the wind and sea had
sufficiently fallen to enable him to engage his
opponent At sunrise, his colors were hoisted,
and replied to by the enemy. But'determined
to give his ruen every advantage in his power,
ne gave them ample time for breakfast, and.
advised by the thoughtful Mr. Yarnall, doubled
their ration of "spirits."
It was between eight and nine o'clock when
he beat to quarters and cleared for action.
Tne brig was so close that her drum and fife
could be distinctly heard as she followed the
example. Her commander had evidently
taken matters just about as coolly ss Barney
had                                i
Sail wag now made upon both vessels, and
the Sachem began to edge down upon the
brig. She had the advantage only in being to
windward, and being thus enabled to choose
a distance suitable to work her long eighteen
to the best effect.
Yarnall was in his fighting rig. Hi1 long.
gaunt form was encased in tight pantaloons

q F
i
f
$ $
(  a
7!
1
3
3
3
p
t

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.


28

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN S GRUDGE.

t
6
f
+jrt
k

t
k
t
i
k
t
f
t
r
i
3
1
i        k
F
ttt"
"     t
f
e
i
t
i

-

Barney watched the result through his spy-
gla's.
Depress your gun a trifle; that shot went
two feet above hu hammock nettings, and
through the foot of his foresail," said Barney.
At this moment, a range of smoke and fire
belched out from the side of the brig, and the
thunder of her whole broadside was heard.
But it was poorly directed-the guns were not
sufficiently elevated, or fires in range. Only
one shot came near the Sachem and thatstruck
the water close to her, and ricocheted clear
over her hull, making a hole in a sail. The
spray from it, however, took Yarnall in the
breast and face, as he leaned over the lee bul-
warks looking at the brig.
"Darn 'em!l" he muttered, "I knowed they'd
go to splashing a feller all over with saltwater.
if id my bran new uniform on it would have
been all the same tew them,!"
Thompson had by this time re-loaded his
gun, and, having measured his distance, he
sent his second shot crashing through the bul-
warks of the brig.
Well done-you've begun to stir themup!"
said Barney. "Keep the game up. Mr. Yar-
nall, you may open with the lee battery ; be
careful not to throw away a shot.''
"No fear, cap'n-1 never was brought up
tew waste iron. I'll be as keerful as I can."
The action now became general. Although
tue carronades were not very effective at the
dioin:ce, the long uun of tle Sachem told with
terrirle fiect-splinters whitened the side, of
the Eeoglist brig every time that it was dis-
enar
3 arnall was here, there, and everywhere-
i w siehting a gun, then applying a match,
now kicking a powder-monkey for not hurry-
ing up the ammunition, then helping to move
a wounded man out of the way of the guns,
making all the while, in his own dry way,
quaint remarks, which, even in that exciting
and terrible hour, brought peals of laughter
rom the men.
A shot from the enemy having shattered the
head of a poor fellow near him, who had often
annoyed him by his stupidity, and covered him
with blood and brains, he remarked, as he
cooly wiped his face:
" Who'd have thought that Bill Jenkins had
brains-he hardly knowed enough tew keep
himself out of the fire 1"
The smoke now became so dense, as it swept
down upon the brig, that she could scarcely
be seen by the men on board of the Sachem,
R ho, however, kept up a fire at the flash and
report of her guns.
Barney now began to think of bringing the
matter to a decision by closing up.
Bidding the boarders to prepare for work,
under cover of the smoke of a heavy broadside,
he squared away, double shotting his larboard
battery with grape and canister, intending to

29

ThE MAN-O~WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

l k no vrd it! It is jest as I said 'twould  the signal officer is ever allowed access to the
be. We'te taken her in one hoar and a quar- boot. It is always bound with heavy lead
ter. laelxg jest tew minutes, by the watch !" covers, so that in case of imminput danger of
110 e is your arm? you are wounded," said  capture it can be cast overboard and sunk in
Bar e                                the  ocean.
'Aei e-it'll get over it though.  [ jest  Barney now secured his prisoners, and put-
poured some sperits on it," replied YarnalL. ing a prize crew on board the bug, under
And took some inside, too, didn't you?"  charge of Mr. Yates, he ordered her to sail for
"Jest a teaspoonful, tew keep me from feel- Philadelphia. Of course be sent despatches
g fain ish"                              to government, and another letter was entrust-
ar1ey found that his prize, so gallantly ed to the officer, and a package with it. The
won, was very valuable. She was wel' armed letter was to Alderman Bedford--the package
and munitioned, had a large stock of provi- contained the ensign of te captured brig, and
ionsetc. ; and, best of all, her commander the trophy was directed to the Aldermain's
had felt so secure of victory, that he had failed fair daughter.
t3 destroy hia signal books. le also had in-  By noon on the day of the battle, the brig
portent des1tattes from -te nomne govern- was standing inforthe Capes of the Delaware, .
ment, which fell into Barney's bans.      Yites, having a copy of the signals, beiag in-
No'one but an officer in war time can appre- structed to use every precaution to get his
ciate the value of possessing the private sei- prize rafely into port.
als foe day nd night of an enemy. So carp-' The Saceem was now headed on a course to
fully are they kept that on board of all our ! intercept homeward bound West Indiamen,
national veaseis none but the commander and ; and on it we 'will leave her for the present.

run athwart the enemy, rake her with a run-
ning broadside, and then, rounding to under
her lee, to lay her aboard.
Every thing met his plans to a charm. He
was close aboard before the commander of the
brig saw his intention, and it was toe late for
the latter to entirely evade the raking broad-
side. however, he put his helm hard up the
moment that the Sachem's sails loomed out of
the smoke, closeaboard; butthis only brought
the sooner in contact as the Sachem luffed up.
The instant that their hulls crashedtogether,
Barney ano Yarnall, heading their men, leaped
on board the brig. They were met by the
officers and crew of the brig with a determined
front, and a terrible struggle for the mastry
ensued.  The clear shout of Barney--the
hoarse cry of Yarnall, as he literally mowed a
swathe with his huge cutlas--rung high
above the cheers of the combatants, the yells
of the wounded, and the groans of the dying.
The deck was slipperywith blood.' The smoke
rose like a frowning storm-cloud above the
combatants, for steel was to decide the battle
now. Theimpetuosity of Barney's crew drove
the English back to their quarter-deck, but
here they formed; and with a bristling row of
boarding pikes madd a hedge of steel. Yar-
nail's right arm at this moment was disabled
by a shot. Until now, he had not seemed to
think of his huge mouthed pistols. But losing
the use of his sword-hand freshened his me-
mory, and drawing them in succession with
his left hand, he fired them in the faces of the
close clustered men. The heavy loads scat-
tered death in the ranks. The commander of
the brig and two other officers fell.
"Darn ye, I thought that 're hail storm
would bother ye !" shouted Yarnall, drawing
his butcher knife, and plunging into the melee
again.
"Quarter 1" yelled a seaman, into whom
he drove the long blade up to the wooden
handle.
"Why didn't you speak sooner, you tarnal
fool?" he cried, as he drew forth the reeliag
weapon just in time to parry a pike which was
within a few inches of his breast.
"Keep your tarnal fish spear to yourself !"
he said, as he sprang inside of the reach ofthe
man who held it, and, with a kick from his
huge foot, hitting the man in the pit of the
stomach, made him double up and yell as if.
he was mortally wounded.
The English, having no officer to encourage
them, were now completely disheartene
Their cries for quarter reached the ears of
Barney, and seeing that their flag was i'a - I
down, be at once bade his crew cease t'   r
terrible havoc.
The moment that it was over, Yarnali wr-et
on board the Sachem, and descended into 'he
cabin. He returned in a few momenta say-
ing, in a triumphant tone :

Dark and dis Etrous clouds overhung cur
nation . w aaptoton, wh bad so long toiled
and edece'd 'iYe e nemv in their aims a'. Pnia-
eelphia tmade a desperate stand upon the
b1o' .ef the lr.m aywne, but was detected,
w i the los of many of ie brave and devote
troops  'ibe enemy, ei couraged and flushed
'witru victory, gave the shattered coluniLs of
tOe Anrie:in army no opportunity to re-fbm,
but pushedl on, and within fifteen days a'ter
the diaauirous battle, occupied Philadelphia.
Terrible w as the news to poor Corn Bedtord
when she heard that the enemy was approach-
ing-verv terrible, for her lather was con-
fined to his bed by illness too serious to permit
a thong ht of L.is removal. Yet terrible as it
was, tle did she dream of all that was in
store for her. She had some topes of being
permitted t o remain quiet and peaceable under
her fatter a roof, for the Britieb general had
caus= d a proclamation to be cireuiated offs r-
ing protection and kindness to all who bad
rfratnd from bearing arms 1n the war, and

who would remain quietly in their homes. She
had offered to permit--more, she had advised
her father's servants to retire into the interior
Ween she propose d this to her own maid, the
tairhful Eliza, the latter felt quite hurt at the
h What! in the time when danger comes
threat xni' death and distraction, me leave you,
thaCoran-and your poor father sick, too !
No-I'm not a high born lady, but I've got a
eoirt that would scorn to' leave ySou when
trouble was coming, like the clouds of an
elementary storm, to make everything dark as
a rebus, as Parson SternMoldisays, over you.
No-I'm only a poor gll, Miss Cra, but I'm
above that I"
-Tank you, my faithful Elizahut you'
know not what dangers may threaten. In war
times the soldiers are rough and reckless-.
they sometimes commit dreadful enormitis
'and excesses.''
X ain't afeard of 'em, Miss Cora--they
shan't put none oi their distresses on me-

rR
bk
J
[ '4     1
$4
t
" l "
.f
,th
1
i

CHAPTER XVII.
rIIILAD tLPHIA TAKEN-CORA BEDFORD.

1


80               THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

I've got nails and teeth, and a butcher knife,
and--ob, Lord? he's come!"
" Wno ?" cried Cora, as she saw Eliza, who
was looking out of the window, turn pale as
death.
"Oh, its Corporal Drill!  I wish that Jim
Thompson was here, or your lieutenant Lord
ha' mercy on me, a sinner! they're a coming
right across the street, a whole dozen on 'em,
with an ossifer at their head!1"
Cora turned pale, too, for she had recog-
ntzed that officer, and in him an enemy whom
she had last seen under far different circum-
stan cets,
What his feelings and intentions were might
best be inferred from the fact that, without
paying the slightest respect to the rules or
courtesy, he entered the house without per-
mission, or even knocking at the door, and in
a moment, followed by twelve armed men, he
entered the drawing-room, in which Cora
Bedford stood, not pale now, but red with
rage.
"What means this intrusion?" she asked,
and her dark eye flashed like fire as she
spoke.
"You know me, Miss Bedford, do you not?"
said the officer.
"Yes, Henry Elliott, I know you as a tory
and a villain. a traitor and a puppy--know
you as the liveried servant of a base tyrant I"
You had better be sparing of your abuse,
my fair and haughty maiden. You are in my
power now
"Never, wretch, while I hold my own life
in my hands!' sue said, bitterly, her proud
form swelling in queenly pride as she spoke
"We'll see !" tneered the cificer. "Where
is your father? My business for the time is
with him. Your case shall meet my earliest
attention after I dispose of him!'
"What do you mean, vile monster, in re-
gard to my rather? Ie is sick-nigh unto
death's door! '
Not so sick but that he can be removed
to prison, 1 expect " said the fiendish brute
"To prison ? Oh, God, Henry Elliott, you
dare not!"
"I dare anything. Cora Bedford ! I am the
favorite aid of the British general, and have
my own way in regard to matters !"
"But my father is helpless--to remove him
from his room would be instant death if he
must die, kill him in his bed, and stain your
coward hand with my blood I"
"On, no--I shall reserve you for a pleasant-
er fate, Miss Corn; I have not forgo ten my
love S et !" said the villain, with a look whien
made tbe poor girl shudder wi'h horror.
"If your fattier is too ill to be removed at
present. it will not prevent my putting a guard
over him ; and as 1, am peruitteu to choose
my own qiiar ors, I shall become your guest.,
though p,-rbaps rather an unwelcome one, for
the time

"Most unwelcome ; but if you are so base
and dastardly as to force yourself under this
roof, I can confine myself to my poor father's
sick room !"
"As' you please ; but remember that you
will not be permitted to leave this house with-
out my permission !"
"I shall not leave my father's side, sir!"
said the maiden.
"Corporal Drill, you with your party will
take up your quarters in this house, and see
that none of its inmates depart without my
permission."
"Yes. sir," said the corporal, giving the
soldier's salute as he drew his stiff bode up to
its lull height, and brought his musket from a
"shoulder 'to a "carry."
"My duties at headquarters deprive me of
the pleas re of remaining in your company at
present, I iss Bedford," said the officer, with
monk politeness-" but I will return at an
early hour this evening, and hope then to find
you in a more amiable humor!"
Toe instaut le left the room. Cora hurried
to her father Eiza was about to follow, when
Drill, who had laid aside his musket, stretched
our his arms as if to embrace her, and said;
"Eliza. old sweetheart: don't e know me-
yours to command, Timothy Drill, first cor-
poral in his majesty's sixty-first foot?'
"Yes, I de know you, you old lobster-back,
and I don't know no good of you, nor your
vile audacious master neither!''
"Why, 'Liza, you ain't agoin' to file off and
turn the left shoulder on me, your own Timo-
thy, are your!'
"Yes, I be! I despise you! You're worse
than a gorgian monster, so you are !"
"Whew! I smell powder t Some one has
been foraging around the camp since I was
here. You ve found some other lover, eh?"
"If I have, he's a better lookin' man than
you be, and if he was here now, he d 'nihilate
you to atoms, so he would! if you've got to
stay in this ere house, you mas keep your
tongue to yourself-I won't have nothing to do
with you
"Well, you'll introduce us to the cook, won't
you?   Ws musn't starve in the midst of
plenty'"
"Yes, I'll introduce you to the cook. She's
a Digger, and '11 just suit you. I hope she'll
pizen your wittles !"
"No danger of that--we'll make her eat a
part of all she cooks
' Do-she's just fit to set down to tale with
a lot of mean grinoramuses like you!' cried
Eliza, as she darted past the corporal, and fol-
lowed her mistress.
"Your old sweetheart, that you've been
bragLimg of, is as sour as vinegar!" said one
or toe sildiers.
"She used to be as sweet as honey !" said
Drill, wirhasigh  "Women is like powder: if
you doa't lake care of it. it's dead sure to

spoil. Then agin, women, in another sense, is
like powder: they'll go off with a spark at
any time. Then, agin, women is like powder,
for git 'm mad, and there's a deal of brimstone
in 'em, and lot's of saltpetre. Then, agin,
women is like powder, for when they blow a
feller up, they damage him awful. Then, agin,
women is like powder, because they're dan-
gerous to handle. Then, agin, women is like
powder, for if they git damaged once, they
ain't good for much afterwards."
After this lengthened opinion, the corporal
glanced toward the sideboard, upon which, as
was usual in those days, stood several decan-
ters of liquor.

"As we're quarterod here, it's wrong for us
to suffer thirst !" he said.
And, to show that he really believed his
statement, and spoke conscientiously, he at
once filled a large tumbler, and drank it off.
"wThat's old Jamaica, and has the real
smack I" said he, as he put the glass down.
"So has my hand!" 'cried Eliza, as her palm
came in contact with his cheek, for she at that
instant re-entered the room.
"Oh, if you wasn't a woman I" muttered
the corporal, as he rubbed his stinging cheek.
"If I wasn't a woman, I'd be a man, and I'd
kick you out of doors !" she cried, as she went
into another apartment.

CHAPTER XVIII.
CRIME AND MISERY.
A female sat in a miserably furnished room  miserable looking little thing, yet it was too
n a rickety house near the banks of the Dela- helpless to be hated by a woman. If I was a
ware, in she lower part [of the city. She woman, I wouldn't hate anything but apuppy.
looked as if she had once been very beautiful. The door was opened, and a crippled and
Large, brilliant eyes burned within sockets horribly deformed negro entered the room.
far sunk under a pale and shining brow. Her  "Did you take the note to him, Cato?"
cheeks were thin and wasted, as if she r ad  asked the female.
bern accustomed to hunger. There was a      "Yes, missee. But ole nigger had drefful
look of utter desolation, of all-absorbing woe, hard work to git to see him. Mass Harry's
in her face, which was painful to behold. Her got to be big ossifer now."
sharp features, worn into angles by the rough  "I know it-I know all!" she said. imp.
hand of poverty---her thin form, scarce half tiently. "But what did he say? Did he
clothed, told a touching tale. Upon the floor, ask how I washo             e
looking up at her with a half idiotic gaze, was "Fust when he broke open de letter he
a pale, squalid child of not more than a year swore damn, acid look black as tunder cloud;
old. It had a crust of bread in its hands, at den he axed old Cato where Missee Carline
which is had been apparently nibbling in vain. lib. and den he said he'd come yar afore soon;
Upon the hearth a few old barrel staves, ap- and den he gib dis ole nigger a hick and a
apparently taken from the gutter or the river shillin'. Dere's de shillin', missee-old nigger
side (for they were water-soaked), smoked and  kept de kick for heseif!"
steamed and fizzled. but did not blaze. Desti-  "No, Cato, keep your money-go and get
tution, penury and want looked from the something to eat with it. You are the only
dirty walls, the broken windows, the latch- faithful friend I have on earth--I, who once
less door, which was closed by a stick of wood had so many---so many kneeling at my feet,
being propped against it.                 only to catch a smile from my face, a word
"My messenger is a long time returning 1" from my lips, or a glance from my eyes t Keep
she muttered. "li EMUsT see me, and that the money, good, true Cato!"
cursed proof of my mad folly and his treache- "No. missee, dis nigga can't spend dat sil-
I"lin'. It's been gone two days. and you hain't
As she spoke, she looked down at the child had nuffin to eat, and den de baby---"
-not as a mother looks, but with a look of  "Speak not of the brat!" she cried, fierce-
hatred and disgust. There was nothing win  ly. "It is his child, and he must feed it!"
ning, it is true, in the dirtily clothed and  A knock at the door was heard.

THE MAN-0'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.        81


TIE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN S GRUDGE.

"tOpen the door, Cato, and if it is him, stay
outside till I call you.''
The negro obeyed, and an officer attired
in a gay uniform, entered the squalid apart-
ment. Tue lady did not rise from the broken
backed chair in which she sat, but her pale
face flsheld as she looked upon him--who
was none other than Henry E tiott.
"My Godl, Caroline! you here, and in this
a station ?" he exclaimed, in a tone of surprise.
Why should you be astonished to find me
here, and in tVis situation ?" she said, in a bit-
ter tone.  ' You, who left me alone and pen-
niless--me, the wretched mother of your idiot
child-when you knew that for you I was an
outcast from friends and home"
"But, Caroline, I was forced to leave sud-
denly, and since I have had no chance to send
to you.  this city has been in the hands of
the rebels, and 1 hold a commission in his
msjetv's service."
" kuo .v it, base tory !  You, an Ameri-
can ho-n, ede v ii America's foca  But it
is your nature to be fake and treacherous--
Judas was an sn arl compared to you. You
need not frown---l know you---know all about
you: how, wmlie you were pretending still to
love and  I nc, whom you had ruined. you
knelt ai w libed and wept as you sued for
the benrI of pure, noble, high-minded Cora
Bedfor I :how she spurned you as the would
a reptie from her feet; how you were justly
ehasu-d by a crave young officer for tureat-
ening to insult her ; and how, to escape the
sneers of every one who knew you, you
sneaked o' ilke a whipped dog, and sold your-
self to t e Britisti General !"
"Have you done, Caroline?" he asked, in
a cold and natter tone.
"   -No-sit down the re on that etool, near that
half-spar vo!l brat of ours, and listen to me! '
"1V I im! t :.; I unles you speak more
tempe ylv. Ciroline!' he replied, seating
himself  "I oil nut comae here to be abused
by you !'
"Wi ', lii  ou come for? Did not your
covarcl iart tell you that you deserved
more tia mniere abuse at my hands?"
I e imie ere, Cairoline, because you wrote
to me---I e an ihre to aid you.  How have
you sub -i t ,1'
"By tie' labor of my own hands, and the
work of t hat poor, faithful negro slave, who
was true to iii iustre:s when all the rest of the
world deserlte- her. But you say you came to
relieve me. Or course, you will never fulfil
your pro:i-ee to marry me. The hope of
that diy 1n i ,   mao-perished the moment
that, lint d byour treacherous vows,. I
yielded ttat which never, never could be called
back aamn--vir ue! But will you take me
from this wretobed hovel, clothe me at least
decently once more, and prove that there is a
vestige of humanity left in you?"

"I shall have nothing more, personally, to
do with you?" he replied. "But there is
money !" he added, as he threw a purse of gold
into her lap. "Get what you require, and
trouble me no more!
"The price of treason!" she muttered, as
she regarded the money. "It is fitting that
sunken virtue and the offspring of guilt should
live on it !
Raising her dark eyes again to Elliott's face,
she asked:
"Have you seen Cora Bedford yet?"
"I have," he replied, as a gleam of triumph
shot athwart his face. "I have taken up my
quarters in her father's house, and I'll teach
the proud girl a harsher lesson than you have
ever learned. She shall yet envy the position
I but now found you in. But 1 must be off.
Now remember, trouble me no more
The officer did not wait for a reply, but
arose, and abruptly left the room.
"Quartered at Alderman Bedford's, eh?
Poor Cora is yet to learn a harsher lesson than
I have? Not by your hand, Henry Elliott, if
I have to slay you myself !" muttered she. "I
will befriend the poor girl : lost and ruined
though I am, I may yet save her-save her
from the dark intentions of that hell-spawned
miscreant!"
She paused, and seemed for a time to be lost
in thought. The negro entered the room.
"Can't ole Cato do nuffin' for you, misse? "
he asked.
Her eye glanced at the purse in her lap.
"Yes, Cato," she replied. "To-night, after
it is dark, I shall go from here and get some
other clothing, and secure a better lodging.
'To-morrow we will leave this wretched hovel."
"You're not gwine to send poor ole nigger
off'. missee ? "
"No, Cato-you have shared my poverty,
and worked for me--I will not des;e't you now
that I have money. You shall still be my
servant."
" Tankee, missee. Ole nigger'd drown he-
self" if missee send him off I'I
"Cato," continued the lady, "to-night I
shall wrap that dirty bt'at up in a blanket, and
put a card on it, stating who its father is.
Thank Heaven, it looks so like him that it will
be useless for him to deny the parentage. You
must manage to have it left at the quarters of
the British General, so that he will be sure to
see it !"
"Yes missee : 'spose you put him in a bas-
ket, den put mass gin'ral's name on basket.
and I take it and carry it to him quarters, and
say him a basket ob fruit my missee send to
him!"
"Yes, that will do. Bitter fruit it is, and
accursed the trre which bore It! Now, Cato.
take some of this money, and buy me food and
a bottle of wine. I must have strength to car-
ry me through that which I shall undertake."

I

i

32

, r
" ,   qq3
'6 ( a,
t, A
... .t+e .r

f
,  s
s
C

,
"
'ra
a :
c
t
. -
7
K
t

r
l
t
S.
l"
I


THEI MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRi
"Yes, missee-shall ole nigger get some    "Now for
milk for de baby?"                        track the villa
"No-curse the brat!" she said, at first; then, mention. I'll
checking herself, she said: "Yes, get it some-  betray him
get it plenty. It will sleep then, and not mar aim, if I lose
my plot by crying while it is in the basket!" feel how a
The negro took-th money, and left the room hateI"
to obey her orders.
CHAPTER XIX
T HE FA TE or WAR;.
When Cora entered the room where her sick  "Never!
fatherlay, after her interview with Elliott, she Herebyou
in vain tried to conceal her trouble and anxie- or here  die
ty.        -vflhim                            toghistg
"What troubleth thee, Cera?" he asked, in rudeness, he
a  Feeble voice. "Have the British entered the woman's han
town to                                  .  "God bled
"They have, my father.  I wish yo were said the old
wel enough to be moved from it."         myself onee
"Fret not about thy old father, my child, my strength
fThie Blritish, though they are enemies, are yet  " Feel eas
sikeavyodsanandhs aylls      adn"la;tect
a Christian people and will not do harm to a soon as you
 Ala n twat h aer,  it  is  n o t  th e  B ritish  th a t  I  c a n  re m a in i
fear I I wish the brave Lieutenant Barney was from the lan
itere "                                       "lfear m
"It o    be ill for hi, without he had that time, mn
heavy odds at his back, my child-but what ington is for
fearestticu?"                             hopes of the
"Anything-everything, father1 That vii- England, ba
lain Elitwith a British uniform upon him, Hesse, will p
has been here and placed a guard at thy door! our raw mii
He has quartered himself and twelve men in  "Our armi
this house !"                             with success
"Witiout thy leave  "                does not desp
"Without my leave, of course, father! We have ye
Think you I would for an instant willingly We have Jon
harbor the wretch?"                     ing here and
" No! Now, by high heavens, this passes striking whe
patience ! Child, get me my pistols-I'll- " Hast th
I'll-"                                  -child ?"
The face of the sick man grew red with pas..- "Not sine
sion-he tried to rise, but he had no strength. sent me the fl
He felt it, and as he looked uponhiu fair child prize, with ti
he moaned in anguish.                     been moved
" I have your weapons, my father-they are will doubtles
near to my hand if the worst comes, and I do But so long
uot fear to use them!I" she said. " Do hot fret God shield h
now-I will be firm and cheerful."           " Amen, I
" Hadst thou not better hie away from the ton'?'
city, Cora? Under cover of night it will be  "Encampe
possible."                                miles from th

UDGE.                      35
a disguise," she muttered. "I'll
ain    ugh every plot of his in.
ruin him in his own camp-I'll
in the other-I'll foil his every
my life in the attempt. He shall
heart that has once loved, can
father-never will I leave you!
side I take my post-here I live,
! If he insults me, I will report
eneral--if he dares to offer me a
shall learn to his cost, what a
d can do indefenee of her honor."
ss and protect thee, my child !"
man, feebly. "Iwish I were but
more-but this fever has taken all
away 1"
y,and try and rest, my father. As
gain strength we will manage to
y, and find some place where we
n safety until the enemy is driven
d."
any a long day will pass before
y child. When the noble Wash-
ced to retreat, then feeble are the
nation. The veteran armies of
eked by the hired ruffians of
grove but too powerful odds for
tia to cope with !"
iy in the north, father, has met
Hope is not lost. Washington
air. He is gathering another army.
t many a gallant vessel afloat.
es and Barney and Barryswoop-
there like eagles, over the sea,
n they are least expected."
on heard from Barney, lately,
e he wrote to thee, father, and
ag he so gallantly captured. His
he galleys and other vessels, have
up the river, but, if not destroyed,
s fallinto the hands of the enemy.
as he is free he will do his duty.
im from captivity !"
my child!  Where is Washing.
d, report says, twenty or thirty
Le city, and gaining recruits every


86              THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

day. If he only had money and arms and
clothing for the troops, the clouds which sha-
dow his path would lighten up !"
True, child, and willingly would I give
our little all to the good cause 1"
"Ifothers would do the same, then our gift
would be felt," said the patriotic girl. "Oh,
how I wish that I was a man 1"
"Thou wouldn't wish thyself a woman
again, if young Barney was by thy side !" said
the old man, trying to smilsi
"Be them red-backed lobsters going tostay
here, Miss Cora ?" asked Eliza, indignantly, as
she came in the room at this tine.
"They have the power-we have no way
to force them out, Ehza," said Miss Bedford,
sadly
I'll git 'em out !" said Eliza. "I'll funni-
gate them with brimstun, as they do rats in
the shi ps !"
.I fear wa should suffer from the funniga-
tion, as much as they !" said Cora, with a
smile. 'But can you not keepthem in order?
I see your old beau, Corporal Drill, is among
them!"
"?My old beau! He's just had one remind-
er from me-I slapped his face for stealing
liquor from the si aboard. I only hope he'll
try some more.  I'll fix a dose for him ! He
my beau ! I'd rather have a bear or a Choc-
taw Indian, than him !"
"Well-get along as easy as you can, Eliza.
Do not gin the ill-will of the men if you can
help it. We may need the friendship of a dog,
yet, for we know not what may happen. Ido
not fear them as I (1o the villain who brought
them here  You may direct the cook to feed
them and treat them kindly ; and if you can,
Eliza, be friendly with that Dill. Possibly,
by maroeuvrimg well, we may yet make him
useful, at least for our protection. And if there
is danger, by dissimulatig we will find it out
the easier."
I 11 do as you wish, Miss Cora, but it goes
dreadfully against my stomach. I predomi-
nate that Drill more than I do a Tottenhot !"
"A Hottentot, you mean, I suppose, Eliza I"
"Some knd of a hot, or a tot, I don't care
what, so long as it's hateful!" said the girl.
"There's the parlor bell ringing-I suppose
some of the lobster-backs want to be waited
on !" said the girl, going out.
She returned in a moment, and said :
"It's that hateful story lieutenant, miss.
He wants to see you."
"Tell him I am ousy-I am with my sick
father "
"I did, Miss Cora, sad the ordatious wretch
said if you didn't choose to go there, he'd
acme in here!"
"I will go there 1'' said Cora, with her eyes
flashing. "I've that which will protect me I"
and, as she said so, she showed tue hilt of a
dagger which rested in her hosom.
"So have I-I've got nails and teeth, and if

he offers to consult you, Miss Cora, I'll make
him think bedlum's got loose !"
"For my sake have a care, child-I am
weak, and illy able to defend thee !" said the
old man.
"Fear not, dear father. I put my trust in
God. The wretch dare not go too far ! I am
not entirely in his power. God help me if I
was !"
She shuddered as the thought sped across
her mind. Then, accompanied by her maid,
she went into the room where Elliott was seat-
ed.
"Am I wanted for anything special ?" she
asked, haughtily, as she stood confronting him.
"Yes, Miss bedford--but as our conversa-
tion will not be very brief, you had better be
seated."
" It must he brief on my part, sir, and I prefer
standing. My father requires my constant at-
tendance.  Say what you have to say, and
permit me to retire."
"Really, Miss Cora, that look of anger, and
your heightened color, becomes your style of
beauty remarkably well."
"If you only sent for me to insult me, sir, I
will leave you"
"KNo-no ! Have the kindness to remain a
moment. I have some written orders from my
general; which I wish to read to you."
'They do not interest me, sir-obey them
for all I care 1"
"Bat they do interest you, haughty lady,
and I shall obey them!  Tie first is an order
to keep a strict armed surveillance over your
father until he recovers sufficiently to be taken
to a safer prison. The second assigns quar-
ters for myself and guard in this house. You
are aware, of course, that in war time we are
biletted on the enemy 1"
"Well, sir, have you done ?"
"So far as the orders are concerned, but
now that I am a guest, even though an unwel-
come one, I hope my lovely hostess will not
deny me the pleasure of a few moment's con-
versation occasionally, to remind me of the
past, when I was more welcome than I am
now. I can only say to her. that the more
agreeable she is to to me, the more pleasant it
will be for herself and those who dwell under
this roof."
"The less I have to say to you. sir, the bet-
ter. I both hate and despise you!"
"Here, ditto!" said Eliza, following her
mistress, who left the room
' By Jove, I'll soon tame that pride !" mut-
tered Eiliott, as he went to the sideboard and
drank toe contents of a glass filled to the brim
with brandy. "Bus I must get her away from
here, and not push things too far in this house.
If I did not so hate her now, I won d force her
to a marriage, for the old Alderman is rich,
and she is the only heir.  But harb, my fel-
lows are carousing in the kitchen. I must
give Drill his directions."

A i
} A

CHAPTER XX.
'A sTARTLING suRRisL.
"Your Philadelphia trees grow singular 1 considered a hoar, sir !".said the British gen-
fruit, Lieutenant Elliott !" said the British eral, again bursting out in a laugh, which was
general, on the ensuing morning, as he enter- echoed by every member of the staff, who
ed the quarters oi that officer, finding him, as were in duty bound to laugh at every witty
usal surrounded by the members of his staff. thing which passed the lips of the leader. "It
There was a merry twinkle in the general's is a very good likeness--a palpable duplicate
eye, and a suppressed smile on the faces of the i  miniature s" ,.
officers, which Elliott could not understand.  "Who has played this famous trick upon
" In season, the fruit in this section is very  you, general?"
fine, general," he replied.                 "Some one whom you must have tricked, I
"Fruit of the kind I allude to is always expect, lieutenant. But, as the fruit evidently
seasonable, but not always acceptable I" said  came from your garden, and I have no use fo
the general. "But I will send for the basket it, at least until it grows into suitable size for,
of fruit which was presented to me last eve- his majesty's service. I beg that you will take
ning-you probably being acquainted with charge of it; and also let me request that you
the species, canbest inform me whether it is will take steps in future to preventmy inspeode
Again that half-suppressed snile was seen ly will convey the basket to any place which
on the faces of the officers, and their eyes were you may direct."
directed toward him. He felt embarrassed    Pale with rage and mortification, Elliottleft
and uneasy, though he knew not whys       the presence of the general, the soldier follow-
The general now bade an orderly bring a ing with the basket. He had but just entered
basket of fruit from a certain locality, which the street, when his eye fell upon the negro
had been left in the care of a sergeant's wife, Cato, who had evidently been on the watch to
precisely as it had been left for the general, see toe result of the affair, and who was now
the night before.                         hobbling away.
In a short time the soldier returned and  "Here, you black seQundrel!" he shouted,
placed the basket on a table.             "stop-I want to speak to you i",
"Do me the favor to uncover it, lieuten-  Cato first looked as if he intended to run-
ant," s id the general, "and tell me what you  for, in spite of his deformity, he could scram-
think o the fruit!-,                     ble over a great deal of ground in a remarla-
With a nervous hand, Elliott lifted the cloth bly short space of time. Then, however, e
from txhe basket. As he did so, he started altered his mind, and, coming to a stop, wait-
back, for the stupid, lack-lustre eyes of his ed for Elliott, who, with the orderly, approaoh-
idiot child looked up in his face.', On its ed.
breast was a card, upon which was written :--  "Where is your mistress?  Speak, you
"This ill-formed, sin-begotten cub, cursed in devil's pup.-where is she ?"
heaven and accursed on earth, belongs to a  "Ole nigger don't'know, massa. She's done
perjured villain-his name is Henry Elliott! gone and drown sheself, I tink. She went on
Since the British general has provided for the an' cried arter you went away las' night;' and
father, ir is but just that he should take care o den she gib me money to git sumtbin to eat.
the son !"                                and when I done git back she was gone. All
As Elloit recoiled from the basket and its I find in de ole house was die bit o' paper-
contents, the British general burst out in a maybe it tell you sumthin', massa." d
roar of laughter, an example which; was in-  Elliott snatched the paper from the hand o
stantamously followed by every officer in the the negro. It was a note directed to himself,
room.-                                    and unsealed. It read as follows :
I do'&amp;'t wonderr that you are surprised-I  Huang Eor: As you desire, I shall trouble you o
was takf'u rather in chek mself, last night, more I go to a distant land to hide my sorrow and
wfmy shame. Farewell--and my curse remain with won
on the r, ceipt of the fruit !" said the general. now and forever!  CAROLINE OsneBY.
"I am u .d to strange presents in a hostile  "Did you carry that basket to the quarters
country. but this is a day's march ahead of of the general, you scoundrel?" asked Elliott.
any fav' "that I ever re ceived before 1"   "What basket, massa ".
"It is a'i infamous hoax, sir 1" cried the mor-  "The basket which that soldier has in his
tified lieutenant.                        hands."
"It bears too much truth on its face, tobe  "No, massa, ole nigger no carry basket to

T$R MA;N-a' WAR'S-MAN'S t RUt ThL                 87


THE MAN-0 -WAR'S4IAN'S GRUDGE.

rnssa gin'ral.  What for.Cato do dat ? No.
body send him.  Ole nigger been loogin' for
he missee all night--down by de riber an' up
in 1e town. Guess she drown sheself an' de
baby I"
'-No-the brat is in this basket. I wish, It
and her were drowned ! Take that basket and
carry it to her!"
"IKi, massa ! 'Fore God, old nigger don't
know where missee is t"   o
"It may be true that she has gone I-' mu -
tered Elliott, after regarding the negro in-
tently a moment. "It will not do to leave the
brat in the street, fir since the expose at the
general's head-quarters, if I do not eonseal it
and hush the matter up, the whole town will
ring with it. It will cost me a wine supper to
get the silence of the staff on the matter!'
"Where shall I take the basket, sir ?" asked
the orderly.
"Give it to that negro there---I will give him
his directions. You can return to your poet."
"Ki, massa! what can ole nigger do wid de
picaninny ? I got no house, no nuffin'."
"You must find some one to nurse it. Here
is a guinea-go and hire some wench to teke
care of it and feed it; then come to me at
Alderman Bedford's house ; I want a servant,
and you'll do well enough for the present." '
Ki, massa I ole nigger isn't fit for sarvant
to smart young man like you. No can run
fast-eyes mos' blind-teef all wored out so
hominy grit, taste hard now I"

"I care not; yo11 d. at present to black
boots and brush clothes: I'll pick up a smart.
er one by-ana-hy. Take the basket, and
march; and mark you, S on imp of darkness:
obey my orders, or you'll catch a dressing
that'l whiten your hide for a week or tuo!"
Toe negro took the basket and departed.
A half hour later he was in the presence o
his mistress, who was now well dressed and
in decent lodgings.  He told her every par
ticular of the conversation between himself
and Elliott.
A smile of satisfaction passed over the face
o the female as she listened to him.
Everything works to a charm !" she mur-
mured.  "You will 'bey his orders to the
word, Cato!"
"What, and be his sarvant, miesee !"
"Yes-.-obey his orders, and if ever you see
me, pretend not to know me. I shall not be
far from you-it is to serve me that I sendyou
to him!"
"What will I do with the baby, missee ?"
"Take the brat to some poor woman, give
her the guinea, and tell her to feed it, and she
shall have a guniea every month as long as she
takes care of it."
"Yes, missed."'
"And then   o to him.  Remember, when-
ever or Whereer you see me, unless we are
alone, do not dare to act as if you know me S"
Yes, missee."
The negro now departed with his basket.

f4
F
E+
_    Y
z{dui
4
S
ez
LC c   .4. 5
Ff
f
5
k
F
f.iy 4 .
t " f r
P

I

4

FsJ
AI

THE MAT-O -WAR S MAN S GRUDGI        89

CHAPTER XXt.
TEE CRUISE or THEA.HEM.

For some time our friend Barney has been
lost sight of; but do not deem that he, with
his daring heart, ardent spirit, and towering
ahirionhas been idle.
Four months had gone by since he had
passed the Capes of the Delaware, bound sea-
ward, and many aprize had been taken by the
Sachem. At last, however, the news that
Philadelphia had been occupied by the enemy
reached his ears, from an outward bound ves
el which he had captured.     h
"I knowed they d have Philadelphy ?' said
Yarnall, when the news was communieated.
"By heavens, they won't keep it long !"
said Barney, in much agitation, as he paced
his deck after hearing it.
"Do you mean to try to retake it with the
Sachem? 'asked the first luff, in his dry way.
"If you do, I forsee some trouble."  -
"If I can do nothing by way of ret'akingit,"
said Barney, " I can collect a squadron which
will help to starve them out. If Washington
will only blockade them by land, I'll do it by
water. But, Yarnall, I'm going to look: inte
the bay ; I'm bound to visit Philadelphia, if it
costamy life i"
"Or liberty! I knowed you would! Darn
the women!" muttered Yarnall.
"What do you mean, sir?" asked theyoung
commander, sternly.
"Why, ap ,there's no use of your fiarin'
up about it-I didn't go for to rile you-but
ever since them poises or nosegays come
aboard at Philadelphy, I knowed you was in
love there. I've watched'you many a night a
w akin' the deck, and a lookin' at the stars,
and a talkin' t yourself or somebody that
din't hear you, and I foresaw matrimony
looming up atween you and t'other Bend of
life. So now you want to put into Delaware
Bay and up the river, like as not when it's as
thick covered with British ships as the Chesa.
peake is with canvas-backs in December!"
"If you are afraid, you need not go with
me, sir "
"Me afeard, eap'n ? Did you ever see me
beck one inch from anything human, inferna
or divine? By jingo, it's time that I left when
you twit me with being' a coward! I didn't
foresee that!1"
"Forgive me, Yarnall; I didn't mean to in
sinuate that you were a coward. There's my
hand on it. I have ever found you the braves
of the brave!"-
"Tarnal Jerusalem! I knowed you'd sa3
that, cp'n ; and now jest head the craft right
for Delaware Capes, and see if Ned Yarnal
banks an inch from youe. Jitmnpin' Moses,7
know what it is to be in love myself. I love

a gal down on the Cape once---loved her worse
than p'isen. A Dutch Jew pedlar got ier,
though-bought her off from me, after she'd
promised to share my fortin, with a sixpenny
calico dress and a string of gold beads, and
cheatedher at that, for the gold turned green
afore she'd been spliced a week. I hain't had
notbin' to do with women folks since then.
They're like a coral reef' in smooth water-
mighty deceivin'. If once you run ashore on .
it, you're chawed up in a hurry. The 'Ca'pes,
by our last observation, ought to bear about
weet-nor'west-distant about one hundred
and fifty-odd miles."
Yes, you can keep her away. Our course
will keep the wind on the quarter. If the
breeze lasts, we can slip in in the night, or a
little before daylight at least.'
" Yes, sir ; but wouldn't it be well to go in
shabby like? We ve got enough cargo in of
-the right sort to pass as a transport, if any of
the Engliehers should overhaul us. If we can
get up the river safe, I know a creek on the
Jarsey side where we can stow the craft sosafe
_ that nothin' can find her from the water side,
and nothin' be apt to come from the land
without they like wadin' in the swamp. Ie
up Rancosas."
"We will try and get the craft in there,
then. If the worst comes, and we are in dan-
ger of being taken, we can run the craft ashore
and burn her. Then we can join the Torces
on land."
"And make boss marines of ourselves,
cap'n ? That would be jolly. I never rid a
boss but once, and I got a h'ist then that I
shan't forgit afore I stop chain' tobaccy. II
kInowed I would afore I straddled the animal
f -he looked vicious about the bow-ports and
kickish about the starn.- But there was a lot
of gals a lookin' on and gigglin', and one on
'em said a sailor couldn'r ride ; so I said,
Hold on, miss, and take a turn with your jaw
tackle, and Ill give you something to laugh
at' And i did!"
"Did the horse throw you?'
l   "Well, he kinder h'isted me, eap'n t I'd
only jest got athwartsbips of his back, when
t his bows went down like a log in the trous* of
a sea, and in course his t'ott er eend went ,p.
. I went up too, and when I some down thehose
was about ten fathom ahead of me, and the
t gals all laughin'and bustin' off their hookesand
eyes at me. I've never, navigated on a hose
since then."
t    The vee's oeuree was now changed, sail
u  crowded on, and she dashed through the water
I at a rapid rate.


40

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN S GRUDGE.

"'

CHAPTER XXII.
LOVE'S STRATAGEM.

A short time after Elliott had taken the ne-
gro Cato into his service, he was called upon
by a smart looking lad, who appeared to be
a"out ixteen or seventeen, who asked if he
did not want a servant. The young fellow
was neatly dressed, and very good looking.
his appearan ce rather prepossessed the lieu-
tenant in his favor, although there seemed a
lttle of the devil in his black eyes.
"Why do you seek to enter my service?"
asked E iliott.
Because I have no home. Iam too young
to be a soldier, and want to get an honest liv-
ing if I can," said the lad.
The answer pleased Elliott. who wished to
vie with toe other officers, who mostly had
smart looking valets.
"What is y our name ?" he asked.
"John Jones, sir.'
"Were you torn here, my lad?"
"No, sir-I cane from New York."
"Your language and appearance indicate
that you have been in a better situation than
that of a servant ny lad.'
No matter what I have been-I seek no
high position now, sir."
Can   ou r-ad and write ?"
Passably well, sir."
"Do you kr.,w how to dress hair?"
"I can dress my "wo, sir and, if'necessary,
learn to dress yours."
"What wages do you want?"
"I leave that to your own generosity, sir."
"Well, I will take you as a confidential
valet. If yon write a good hand you can act as
my copyist, for I have many orders and let-
ters to copy for his excellency the general. I
believe you can be trusted. You are young,
yet you have an honest countenance. Some.
how it seems as if I had seen you before.'
"I have met 'ou several times in the street,
sir."
"That accounts for it. Well, you can enter
upon your duties at once. I will show you
some letters that require copying} also some
orders."
The youth whom he had thus taken into his
service was slenderand gracefully formed. His
complexion was rather dark, bronzed as if'
from exposure, while in singular contrast with
his dark eyes, his hair, which was curled
thickly down his neck, was red.
For a few days after he had domiciled him-

self under the same roof with Cora Bedford?
Elliott refrained from pressing himself much
into her company, but in a short time his man-
nor became more overbearing and insulting.
Nothing but her threats to appeal to the gene-
ral restrained him from proceedirg to greater
extremities than he did. He had two reasons
for fearing her resort to such a measure
In the first place, the general was an ardent
admirer of beauty, and as heartless a libertine
as himself.  Wit  more power, ae might
snatch the prize 'bich t' lustrul villain co-
veted for himself. Am                   -n, ever eince the fruit
basket expose he dread d to have the general,
upon whom he depended for advancementeand
favor, know anything in regard to his in'r-
gues. Elliett was a iemorseless villain, but
not a hold one. Cowardice went hand in hand
with his treachery in his constitutional char-
acter. He could lie, stealandsssassiate, but
he could not face an open foe.  As a low
cr tninal he could have been a leader-as a  oigh-
wayman, he never would have had the courage
to have robbed a priest.
But though he refrained from actual vi.
lnce for a time, be never for an instant devia-
ted in his intentions, which he could not fully
carry out before the Alderman recovered sif.
ciently to be removed to prison, as he had
originally intended to have him, procuring the
order for his imprisonment by representing to
the general that he was an influential and dan-
gerous rebel.
It need not be wondered, then, that be made
frequent and anxious inqu riea in regard to the
health of the old gentleman, show ig his aix.
iety so plainly that Cora partially stspe ted
the reason, and avoided letinag is pkne ted
the Alderman was rapidly eonvale cia e-
ing the latter to similate a er'rioo' citloe a to,-
ever the tory officer den'raeo to  e his pis
owner.
Perhaps the reader would like to know how
Eliza got along under the struntoos of hr
mistress, whih she said "tacitotionst her
stomach" so much, in regard to the tratmhnt
of Corporal Drill and his guard. To give en
insight into that matter, it is only necessary
to describe one scene between them
Drill was seated in a sitting room back of
the parlor, and near him was Eliza. Her face
had anything but a vinegar aspect, and Eliza,
when she looked smiling and pleasant, ws
what might be termed a very pretty girl. Hen

I

41

THE MAN-O-WAR;S-MAN S GRUDGE.

figure was neat and tidy, and knowing such
to be the fact, she did not neglect to dress it
well.        -
On this occasion Drill looked well-decid-
edly comfortable. As usual, he sat as erect in
his chair as he would have stood had he been
on parade-any other position would have
byen uncomfortable to him. in his hand he
held a brimming tumbler of hot ryim-punch-
a concoction for which he had a great partiali-
ty. That it had been mixed by the fair Eliza,
may be inferred from the remarks he made
on the subject.
"Miss Eliza," he said, ripping the punbobat
each pause-" Miss Eliza, I ve marched over
a good deal of ground in my time, and one
thing I've noticed-that is, that there's some
one thing that everybody can do better than
another. Now, as a drill corporal, there isn t
a man that wears a chevron that can bring an
awkward squad forward as well as I can. As
a guide, or to cover a platoon, devil the better
r         man walks than me. But put me in command
of a company, and I couldn't say a word. I'd
double 'em up, give wicy wary orders, and
make a feol of myself."
"What put alithat in your mind, corporal ?"
"This punch, Eliza-it is sweet as your
lips-it sparkles like your eyes-it is as
rich colored as your cheeks-it is a prime
punch! If this war was over, and I had you
for a wife, settled down in snug quarters, and
had money enough to stand at ease with the
world, and could take a punch like this once
in a while and a puff at my pipe, I wouldn't
eaange pta's-wimt Kig George"
"There, you are again talking about having
me for a rife-you know you don't mean it
sorporal."
"On my hoior a  a soldier, I do."
"You-a ove re if you wanted to marry
"Don't I l've the ve'y ground you march
upon? I'd rtther hear one word fromi your
lips than ahalf a dozen of the liveliest marebe
that ever came from fife and drum.'
-"Actions speak more than words," replie
Eliza, pouting. " If you loved me, you would
not like to stand guard over me and my poo
master and mistress. "
"The only reason I like to stay here is be
cause lI'm near you. And hesides, I can b
kinder in my way thtn.some others would be.
"You could be if you would, corporal."
"Wby. Miss Etize, don't I disobey order
ol'tu. Don't I let you go out and get letters
and never taee them to the lietenant, as he or
dred.  And don't I let you do jest as yo
like?"
.But if my master'and mistress were abl
to go away-that is, supposing. I say, not th
it is so-would you not stop them with yon
-     T"'hat wouldbermy duty. I am on pea
f,   -and must obey orders."

"Must obey orders, eh? Suppose, now--
merely suppose, not tt at I say it is so-thatI,
Eliza Mullebleaf,.spibster, aged two-and-twen-,
ty, and not ill-favored nor scrumptious in my
manners, being genteelly brought up, should
have saved two hundred and seventy pounds
from my wages-"
"Two hundred and seventy pounds? Fire
and gun-flints!"
" Don't interrupt me. Two hundred and
seventy pounds, and should, in the ardent sper-
its of my wirginous affection, say to Corporal
Drill, I love you, and will marry 3oit-"
"Me? me ?-marry met       wo hundred
and seventy pounds--bayonets and ramrods.
"Oh finish your punch,and don't interrupt
me ! Suppose, I say, that I should say to
Corporal Drill, I usill marry you on con-
dition-
Never mind the conditions ; he'd do it."
"Hear me out, will, you ; on condition that
he s ould remove the guard, giverthem the
countersign, and escort Mr. Bedford and his
daughter beyond the 'English lines to a place
of safety, where they could be freed from the
persecutions of that story puppy. your mas-
ter."
"Bombs and explosives ! That would be
treason-death the rules of war ! Disobedi-
ence of orders! Oh, Miss Eliza, tempt me not
-I love you, but tempt me nol!"
"IE thought that your love was all words ;
oh. how deceitful you men are. You'd make
a girl believe you were a dyin' for her, and
then all your professions come out catamount
to nothing. Oh, corporal, to think that I dI
ever be so weak-so supersiilyoos as to con
fess my love, and then hear you ta k of duty F
Your heart is as hard as the rock of Adaa's,
aunt, that Parson Steruhold is ai way a preach--
ing about.'
'Don't cry. Miss Eliza-der Eiza, don't
carry on so. I aint hard hearted. Make me
r another punch, and let me tt ink for a day or
stwo."
" YesI will make yon anoher uch  I'll
I he good to you, though you are so cruel to me-.
d Punch is all you care about. Oh! my poor
r heart; I didn't think it was so weak and per-
ceptible. I naeant to let ' concealment like a
- bud in the worn, as the poet says, eat a hole
e in it."
The corporal looked very solemn and sad,
and sighed frequently, white sr o was, with a.
'a scientific hand, mnixig the various ingre-
s, ,ients of his favorite beverage.
r-   "There" said sne, hanolirg it to him,.
u "take i, And in its helivions depths and evam.
porating fumes forget your poor Eliza."
le "May I be shot in the babin if 1 do. Eliza,.
at I love you; there a no- rubbing it out, I ve
ir you. One snile from you, and a ftsw suoh
pounches, would make me right about face ands
t, fight on other side"
'  Would it, drar'Corpo'alfDrill?"


TlHE MAN-O'-WARS-MAN S GRTUDGE
"On my honor as a soldier, dear Eliza, I'd rum. She and the old men once out of the
comes ; wonder if he heard me '    ere  e way, and then I'll have Cora where--
" Is this the wa  de h   m e          A footstep, low, but loud enough to attract
Ie tio the entered thePomde, om po l "  his atteutien, caused him to cease spealiing,
rum anid  trailing to women servants ! T  wizzing  and turn suddenly. He confronted his valet,
rout ar t;ie setoneomn thefroants To your who was advancing with a package in his
post, sir; t e sentinel in the front passage is hand. He regarded him intently for an-
drur'k.  I suppose that is through your ment, to see i  he could tell b y hf o nt_
on      , oo  ,' he added, angrily, turning  nance whether he had been overheard or not.
"I'd ha   yu to know that Iu n,       But there was no change in the look or tone
-I'm a lady's maid,and don'tt care ifyouare  and said:t as he handed him the pas age,
a lieutenant, i'. Tory Elliott! I wasn't born  "This is from  .eadquart
in the wo(d3 to be scared by an owl        marked in has   eera, sir, and i
"'ou'd trer be eareiul of your tongue, or  " Ah! orders for an advance and a eight
I'll have su bucked and gagged," he cried, tack on the enemy's division under Wayeh '
turning pale with anger.                ' said the tory gnin at the pder Wayne,
"Mc ueked and gagged '-me, Eliza Mul- opened. he     ws sganing at the paper which he
len! You poor miserable shadder of a man! that be did no ntent       inthe lookao,
'Yo lay a lhani on me, arid I'li screech till hatred with whihnotice' the intense hook of
high heaven opeUs its ears and cries forbear-! nor the gleam of i the youth regarded him,
Oh, you adriferous monster! Ms bucked and  which shot acred intelligence and satisfaction
gagged!   W couldn't I ]ike to see you try it !"  plan of the generals face as he overheard the
Cease your infernal latter, and tell me  When the officer raised
how Mr. eldford is."                       expression of hatred and interest had pa she
"None of your business! lie's sick--too  away, and the youth snood,asnu!a passed
sick t be moved--and that's more than     waiting his o    ssleneer
enough for  oi to know,' she replied, flirting  "   oWe m st r
out of the room,'"besaid----                          idwe, Jones--order the horses,"
out f te rombe said' I will be at the door by the time
Thai woman must be got out of the way. they are ready."
She has the wit of a man and the spunk of    The youth bowed and withdrew,
the devil. She is getting the men on her side, a moment after b the lieutenant. followed
too, with her blarney and plentiful supplies of.i
-

r

THE MAN-O'-WAR S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

43

CHAPTER XXIII.
A SPY IN THE CAMP.

"r-
;4
,h i
d
}
p
S
r+
1
{
{    i
:f
f
x   L
1
Fr
i
t
@
t
t
Z

Anoiner day had passed away. The British
general paced to and fco. angrily, in his room.
An officer, spurred, his dress covered with mud,
and hearing the marks of fatigue, stood un-
covered before him.
"You found the enemy on the alert, you
say, drawn up and prepared to receive you?"
""Yes, general, and in advance of the posi-
tion which they held when the reconnoisance
was wade."
"By heaven, there is some traitor in this
camp-ay, I fear me, in my own staff, or close-
ly, too closely, connected with my person
'       My orders were only made known to my staff,
the officers who were detailed for the duty.
Time after time have we thus been foiled. The
enemy gain, by some unknown means,'a fore-
knowledge of every movement we make. Our
foraging parties are cut off, supplies are inter.
cepted, and, instead of being like victors in a
captured city, we are more like a besieged
army. If I can discover the means by which
the enemy are apprised of her movements,
neither age nor sex will deter me from execu-
ting a fearful vengeance on the head of the
offender."
_ "If I might he so bold as to speak, gene-
ral!" said the officer, who waited, and whose
age and scars .ore testimony of long service.
"What would you say, colonel.? Speak out
y--anv advice just now would be of use."
i' would ask your excellency of what
benefit to our cause is the possession of this
place? It is not so good a harbor, nor is it
near so accessible as Baltimore. We are too
near the inaccessible ranges of the Allegha-
nies, whence the hardy ipountaineers and rifle-
men can suddenly issue, sweep away our di.
visions, and then retire beyond our reach.
The country is such that we cannot forage
for subsistence with any degree of sue-
cess or safety-nor can we mnamnuvre a large
force profitably. Their militia and ranging
companies, knowing the ground, and used
from boyhood to following game through the
great forests, the valleys, over rivers and
mountains, have the advantage of our best
veterans."
"True, Colonel. I have already thought of'
evacuating this place, and seeking a more pro.-
fitable field of action. If we could only get
Washington to condense his army, and meet
them at once on a fair field, we could crush
him!"
"If it is done, it must be done in a hurry,

general The French will soon have a large
army here."
"Poh-I care not for the French. They
are like the Hessians, they fight fo ar-but
these Continentals and militia-me' tight for
freedom, for their homes, their wives, and
their little ones, and they fight lar' lto' !
"Yes, general I and my regirmet can tes-
tify to that, to our cost. But if x'ur excel-
lency is done with me, I wil retire
" Do so, colonel-you've been toortcen or
sixteen hours in the saddle--you tost be fa-
tigued."
The officer retired, and the ger'at again
paced to and fro in the room, ap ertly ab-
sorbed in deep study.   His ateuo.iu was
aroused by the entrance of Etliott
"So, sir, the expedition of last iiht was a
failure ?" said the general.-
"I regret that it was, your exceileasy," re-
plied the former.
"And the failure was caused, ev ertlv, by
the enemy receiving information frni some
one in the secret " said the general crutiniz.
ing the young officer closely.
"So it would seem-yet few kne w w f it  I
knew that the orders sent to me wir, i'hivered
in a safe manner into safe hands, y"-rr excel-
lency !
"Well, the secret will out yet. ' -healkeep
a close watch hereafter, and issue ne orders
until it is time to execute them. I ,m sick of
this inactivity. 'The government.'at home
looks to have this accursed rebe li  crushed
at once, and we are scarcely holdine 'tr own,
much l'ss caking head against the inemy  I
shall take the field again soon. It   uropy to
keep the troops here in idleness'
"Does your excellency really ,ntend to
evacuate the city ?"
"I may deem it expedient to do ao' mmedi-
ately. The enemy must not be showed to
rest and gain strength, while we lhy ri+ and
do nothing ! You will issue an omner br the
commanding officers of regiments a+e' 'rigades
to attend a special council, this evening at my
quarters."
"It shall be done, sir. Will youneed my
presence ?"
"No, sir. I wish nones but the officers
whom I have named, present!"
The youngyman bowed and withd rew, mut-
tering to himself as he went : "this disagrees
with my plans; what I do must be done
quickly "

I

i

sa

'i
t
f,


THE MAN-0 WAR'S-MAN S GRUDGE

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

V.

CHAPTER    XXIV.
mIonT 'CENE IN PHILAneLPIZA,
It was night-a cloudy, equally night. A   "We did belong to the Polly, transport-
eold and drizzling rain was falling. In a low  but we're looking 'mt for a berth now."
sort of a sal{ore bo irding-house several 'long-  " Yes, I sec-well, if it's true that the troops
shore men, and some boatmen, were sitting  is goin' away tack to York you'll have chances
before a huge wood fire, closely huddled on enough."
the knife-scarred benches-some of them     "Is there such a report ?" asked the other.
Amnoking, others with a glass of cheap grog in  "I hearn it to-night  There's an old ser-
their hands.                              geant that always comes in here of an evenin,
The landlord, who looked out of but one eye, to bush a bit, and he said something that way,
and that a vicious one-the other had been to night."
gouged out in a rough and tumble fight--stood The conversation wasinterrupted by the en-
behind the bar, with a face as red as his own  trance of a young officer in the Brirish uni-
brandy. His look was sour, for his company  form. The youngest of the seamen started as
was not a very profitable one that evening. he saw him, and suppressed an ejaculation
But his face brightened up on th" entrance of which was on his lips. I:s agitation was nor
two strangers, whose rough pea-jackets. sou- noticed, however, by the new-coiner, who bent
wester hats, tied under the chin with ear-flaps, over the counter, and, addressing the landloid.
and general appearance bespoke their vocation  said, in a low tone :
to be that of mearnen-old hands, who knew   '"I want to see you alone, Tom ; I've a
how to rig themselves to suit the weather. special job for you to manage--one that will
Their face wire half hidden in huge, bushy pay !"
wheisers, an.! they looked like old hands.  "At your old tricks, eh, Master Harry?
Taking a look at the fire and those before it, How well you look in uniform!" said the band-
but not ' urn;r to c-re for a place before it, lord, winking his solitary eye.  Willo
thrny ehouk t~onisftvee -- or their jaek-ets have a drop of the old stuff. 'we iyo
rat fl(- rr:eh af r he fashion of Newfound- the other room?"
and Co-, anal brought up before the bar.  "No; I'm in a hurry. Who are those?" he
I.tve you got any Old Jamaica, landlord?', asked, glancing at the seamen, who had now
a    o-kd the lounger looking.     sa      t down near the fire, with their backs toward
"" Some o' tire primest wet that ever was him.
hnded whou rsoyin' duty !" answered this "A couple of sailors, just in from a transport.
worth y o fth e rubient countenance.      Alrgt"
Give me a snifter, hot, then-make it nor- All right-
nor-west! What'll you have Jim ?"           The landlord now led the way into a hrack
"The same sort o' lush ssits me i" said the room, followed by the office, who carefuy
other.                                    closed the door behind him.
"Sit down. by the fire, won't ye -ye're   The younger of the seamen rose to light his
wet?" said the landlord. "Rouse up off that pipe, and then seating himself close by thin
bench there, some of you longshoree loafers, door to the inner room, took up a book whici
and let these ere men have a snuff o' the fire !" lay on the counter, and appeared to peruse its
"Never mind-we don't want to sit down. contents; but, in reality, he was listening to a
Mix our greg, and give us a pipe apiece," said conversation which seemed to interest him, for
the youngest.                             he evinced agitation as the murmur of t'e two
The gror was mixed and turned off. The voices reached his ear from within.
youngest threw down a Spanish dollar and '  The landlord and his visiter remained about
said :                                    a quarter of an hour, andthen came out. Tthe
"Never mind akin' the change, just now, young officer glanced uneasily at the seaman,
landlord-we'll want some more grog, by-and- when he re entered the tap-room. The latter,
bye, and, as we'e kind o' weather-bound, we however, seemed to be intently engaged with
may want to berth here to-night."         his bock, and did not raise his eyes from it.
"All right. If 'Tom  Riley can't swing a  "You'll take a drop now, Master Harry--
clean hammock for you, never another one on or, Lieutenant,.I s'pose I oughter call you now,
Shippen street can. May I ax you what ship won't ye ?" said the landlord.
you come in?"         a                     "Just a thimbleful of your old brandy-if

[  P
E,
S. 1

you have any of the sort you used to keep for
me when I was on a lark!1"
There's some," said the landlord, handing
from a back shelf an old dusty bottle, "that
no king's officer-no disrespect to the button
--ever bad his nose over before."
The officer took a hearty "pull at the hal-
liards," and turned to leave. As he did so, he,
said i ma low'tone:
"I leave all the arrangements to ybu, Tom
-there must be no such word as fail. Re-
member, a hundred pounds down, if all turns
out right, and not a farthing if it don't."
"Never fear, Master Harry ! I should think
I'd done jobs enough for you, to show that
I'm no green hand!" said the landlord, as the
officer departed. "Yes, many's the gal-"
he commenced saying, but stopped as he saw
the eye of the younger seaman fixed full upon
him, with a singular expression.
"Did you speak ?" he asked of the seaman.
"No, sir--ut I was just going to tell you
to mix me another lot of geog," said the lat-
ter, coolly.
"Oh, was that ill?" said the landlord, seem-
ing easier.
"And mix another for my shipmate,;' said
the first speaker, again bending his e Yes upon
the book, which, had the landlord been able
to read, he could have seen was held upside
down, for the seaman's mind was anywhere
but on its pages.
The liquor was soon ready, and laying down
his book, the younger seaman rose to take it,
calling to his companion to join him  After
the glasses were emptied, he said to the land-
lord :
"Me and -Jim '11 go and take a short cruise,
to see how the weather looks, and the like,
but well be back soon-mind you save a
place for us to bunk in."
"All right, my hearties-I've room to stow
a ship's crew-them 'ere chaps a loafin' afore
the fire don't turn in reglar !" said the land-
lord, winking his solitary peeper, and filling a
glass of brandy for himself.
The seamen now departed, after fishing and
relighting their pipes.
"It was a lucky thing that we went into that
den," said the youngest, in a low tone, this
companion, after they had gained the street.
"Why, cap'n?'
"You saw that officer?"
"In course I did, sir, and set him down for
one of King George's meanest monkies."
"Well, he is one of the most infernal vil-
lains that the devil ever hatched. I owe him
an old grudge.  I knocked his daylight itet
darkness, the last time we met--and now, be-
fore I leave the city, it'll he ten chances to one
that I send him down to his master, the devil!
His visit to the rascally pirate that keeps the
den, who appears to be an old co-workeS in

deviltry with him, was to arrange for the ab-
duction of the very lacy whom I am now
periling life an4 liberty to see. Thank God, I
learned one thing from his talk---she is here,
and as yet she is safe ! I must manage to see
her-and between you and me, we'll knock
his plans out of shape, and get her away in
safety. If it is true that the British intend
evacuating the city, we will h~ve to work
sharp."
"The sharper the better, cap'n--man and
boy, Jim Taompson's been used "to sharp
work forty years or more
Keeping well in the shade of the houses, al-
though it was dark anywhere, the couple hur-
ried on toward Market street. On arriving at
that streetthey paused before a two-story-and-
a half brick house, of genteel exterior. The
shutters were closed, and no lights visible.
"It is not late," said the youngest; "not
more than nine o'clock--I'll see if I can be
admitted. Be careful not to call me by name
-if we go in, remember we are two poor
seamen, who want a little assistance "
"Ay, ay, sir."
Toe youngest now knocked at the door.
"Who's there? and what do you want?"
asked a gruff voice, as the door was opened,
ant by the hall lamp a man garbed in the uni-
form of a British soldier appeared, holding a
musket with fixed bayonet in his hand.
"Does CaptainJones, of the ship Argo, stop
here ?'" asked the younger, with admirable
presence of mind.
" No-this is a sick rebel's house-one Bed-
ford--and Lieutenant Elliott's quarters," re-
plied the soldier, gruffly.
"We're at the wrong house, then-we're
looking for Cap'n Jones,"-said the other.
"What is the matter? who is there?" asked
a voice from within.
" Onlya couple of men, lookin' for Cap'n
Jones, lieutenant," replied the guard.
"Tell them to go to the devil!''
"Much obliged !" said the first speaker, as
the door was slammed ina'his face.
"What's to be done now, cap'n?  There's
a way around by the alley-only a fence to
climb!   Once in, we can see how the land
lays !"
"No glass bottles broke up on the top of
the fence, nor a big dog in tbe garden, I
hope !" muttered Thompson. "I helped an
officer to run away with a pretty gal, in Lis-
bon, once, and between the glass on the wall,
and the-dog in the garden, I suffered stem and
starn!"
"There is no glass, I'm sure ; they're not
up to that dodge here yet!" said the officer ;
! "probably no dog !"
We will now take a look inside of the house,
and lee what is going on there.

f1

4

44

46

F
s

F
t
t


THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MANS GRUDGE.
CHAPTER XXV.
L oVyE AND DUTY.

"Corporal, is it true that the army is agoin'
to evaporate the city ?" asked Euza, as she
handed him a glass of punch, at about the
hour of nine on the evening already described.
The non-commissioned officer looked at his
glass drained it at a single swallow, and heaved
a sigh that seemed to come up from the very
soles of his brogans.
" Dead, Liza !" he said, with a melancholy
sbake of his head. 'March is the word. I
W istn the cursed war was over. It's hard to
fight with people as speaks the same lingo. If
they Was only French, or Dutch, or Spaniards,
wouldd hie another thing. That punch was
prime. Liza!'
"Ill mix you another, corporal ; I not be
unkind to you, dcar Drill, though you loveyour
duty. as you call it, better than me!"
"-D--n the duty !" said the corporal, with
an ewp' afis that made her start. "If it
wasu t thtt I'd be sure to be caught and shot
for a d. erter, I'd let the service find sone
other corporal in my place ; burn my primin'
if I wouldn't!"
"Dear Corporal Drill, oh! if you only would
help toy maser and mistress to get away from
the hands of that hateful lieutenant, I'd die
for you, almost!" And Eliza threw her white
arms around the corporal a stiff neck with a
fervor that might have choked him had he not
been protected by a leathern stock of the con-
sistency of sheet iron, and kissed him with a
smack that sounded nearly as loud as the re-
port of a small r'istol.
Visions of matrimony, with infantile accom-
panmeints, and especially the two hundred
and seventy pounds, flitted before the dazzled
vision of the bewildered corporal. What he
would have said we know not, for at that crit-
ical moment the girl, whose face was toward
the window, uttered a scream, and, turning as
pale as snow, cried :
'Oh, mercy! I saw it! I saw a ghost! 1b
rose to condemn me '"
'Who? what? Powderand ball ! what is
the matter?' cried tie corporal.
"Oh! oh' I saw the ghost of a sailor man
that I met before you came here this times
-it was looking at me right through the win-
dow
"Ghosts don't look through windows," said
the corporal. "I'll call the guard and look for
the ghost in the garden."
He rushed out oftthe room to do this, and at

the same instant the outer door opened and
Barney and his companion entered       -
"Hide us quietly, my good Eliza, before
that red- coat returns !" said the former.
"Goodness gracious I" is that you, lieuten-
ant? My mistress-"
"Not a word now, Eliza, not a word, but
hide us. and when he return get him out of
the way as soon as you can. Then you can
let your mistress know I am here," cried Bar-
ney.
"Quick, then-get into that cupboard, both
of you, and make no noise." said the girl, com-
prehending the ghost part now, as she saw the
honest faces of the seamen bent upon her.
'"Now be careful not to touch the crocker-
ary I" added the girl, as she closed the small
closet door on them, just in time, for before
she could regain her feat, the corporal re-en-
tered the room, attended by four of his men,
and hurried out into'the yard to look for the
ghost.
Of course he sought in vain, and found not
even a sign of a living being, much less a
ghost, if ghosts do leave signs.
"I think it must 'ave been a fat ey of yours,
Mies 'Liza," said the corporal. "I don't be-
lieve in ghosts, but I thought some chap might
'ave been in the the yard lookm' in at us-but
there's never a feather of one there."
"Maybe it was a fancy," said Eliza; "I feel
nervous and highetrikey to-night. I guess I'd
better go to bed ; we can talk to morrow, you
know, dear corporal."
"Yes, 'Liza, if tramp is not the word ; but
there's no knowin' but what orders may come
for us to move in the morning. and if they do,
Il have to go with my company, and loss
yours, without my master tapes you along with
your lady, for her he has sworn to take. I
heard him do it when he was talking to himself
in his room to-night."
"You did? Oh, the horrid beast! I'd tear
his eyes out for five pins. But I won't go
with him, that's flat."
"But with me, dear 'Liza !" and the cor-
poral put on an excruciatingly affectionate
look.
No, nor with you, nor any other red-
coat that lives, as long as there's a true
Americas blue jacket alive I" she said, raising
her voice a very little, for wtat purpose a
good judge of woman's character can easily
determine.

A6

G.
I
ci
i
I'  i
. r  F
V
3x
:

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE..'
Flints and ramrods, but this is a change in flat of his back on the floor, with a man's
the marching order!" said the corporal, turn- knee on his breast, and a pair of rough hands
ing as red in the face as his own coat. "Has clutched so tightly round his throat that he
that sailor's ghost done this?"           could not breathe, much less speak.
"No matter what has doneit-I mean every   "Don't choke him quite so hard," said Bar-
word I say, and more tool"                ney. who stood by his head with adirk drawn
" Why, 'Liza, you was just as sweet to me in his hand. Then addressing his prisoner,,he
afore you seen that ghost, as the sugar in your said: "If you open your lips or offer-to stir,
own punch ; and now you're as sour as the your life is not worth a cent  I'll drive this
lemon you put in it !"                    piece of cold iron through your heart. Lowe
"Very well, I thought you was agoin' to your whole breed a grudge, and had rather
help to get my mistress and her father out of kill one than eat I"
your master's clutches."                    Poor Drill looked rather crest-fallen, but he
"Well, Ihaven't said I wouldn't since then, did not offer to move or speak, for he well
have I?"                                  knew, by Barney's tone and manner, that he
"No, but you looked as if you wouldn't. was one who would keep his word.
But no matter ; you go off to bed, or to your  "Have you any rope?  I must tie this
guard-we'll talk about these matters to-mor- would-be lover of yours, Miss Eliza," said the
'row."                                     lieutenant.
"Well, give me one glass more of punch, "Will a piece of stout bed-cord do, ir?'
'Liza. I'm afraid going out there in the night she asked.
air, without my cap on, may give me cold. One  j' The very thing I" was his reply.
glass of punch and one sweet kiss, 'Liza, will "There is apiece in the cupboard," she re-
make me forget them words about my red coat plied, and hastened to get it.
and the blue jacket."                       Bitter was the look which the corporal east
"You shall have 'the punch, but when you upon her as she evinced so much alacrity in
get the kiss, I guess you'll know it !" said the procuring the "material aid" for his confine-
girl, as she hastily set to preparing the beve- ment.
rage.                                       In a short time the corporal's hands were
"Women is strange creters ! Why, she was secureltied behind him, and his legs also
a huggin' and kissin' me as if she wanted to tied and so drawn up by a cord around them
eat me up, when the ghost idea popped into and over his shoulders that tie could not kick.
her head. D-n the blue jackets ! I could    "And now a piece of romnd wood for a gag,
lick a dozen of 'em for her before she cou'd Miss Eliza."
mix that punch!"                            "Will the cook's bread roller do, sir ?" asked
A sudden crash was heard in the cupboard. Eliza, as she broaght the rolling-pin, which
"Blood and gunpowder !" what's- that ?" was at least six or seven inches in circumfer-
said the corporal, starting to his feet.  enec
"Rats--rats among the croekerary; the     '|The coporal has an exceedingly capacious
house is full of 'em! ' said Eliza, retaining her mouth," replied Barney--" must be a good
presence of m'nd.                         feeder, but this will be rather too large for a
"They must be big ones to stir plates that single mputhful--a piece a trifle smaller will
way. ' I guees the eat is after .them,"said the answer !"
corporal, iesuming his seat.                "Ah, there's the pudding stick ; he is fond
Eliza handed him the punch, remarking that of pudding !" said Elizp, glancing misehiev-
she had made it stronger than before.     ously at her fallen lover. *
"But not so sweet; you haven' put any     "That doesn't argue that he'll be fond of
sugar in it, 'Liza."                     the stick which stirs it, any more than that a
"No, corporal. Iemptied the sugar bowl school boy likes to be whipped with a birch
when I made the last."                   rod after he has eaten the bark off it. But the
"Isn't there any in the cupboard?"      stick will do," said'Barney, with a laugh.
"Not a mite; I got the last out to night, Poor Drill was now gagged and thoroughly
and forgot to send to the grocery for more." secured, and the seaman rose and waited fur-
"Well, there's molasses there, any way, and  other orders.
that is very good in old Jamaica. Never mird, -' Is your mistress up still, or has she re-
I'll help myself!"                       tired?" asked Barney of Eliza.
"No, no-I'll get it for you 1" said the girl, ,'"Up I think, sir; she seldom leaves her
now terrified fully, as another crash of plates father's side. Shall I go and see ?"
was heard.                                  "I will go with you, leaving my man here
The corporal had no time to make com-   I uardothoporav
ments on this eraph or her anxiety, for at the ingad ftec.prL
eame time the cupboard door flew open, and  . "Mayn't I mix him a nice glass of punch,
the reality, not the ghosts, of a couple of blue- sir, before we go?"
jackets sprang upon him, and before he could  "Yes; do you think you can find the sugar
utter a single word of alarm, he was on the  now ?"

,


TUE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

"Yes, sir; there is plenty in the cupboard, own unsweetened glass, made strong on pur-
and I am not'afraid of the rats now i"    pose, only had to have a little sugar put in it
Poor Drill would have gnashed his teeth to make it very palatable to the staman, who
with ang-r just about this time, if he could put it to his lips and drank the health of her
have only moved his jaws. It was rather hard who mixed it."
to see the idol of his affeetion mixing punch  Barnes Y ow left the room under the guid-
for a rival in a blue jacket, especially as his ance of Eliza, and we will change the chapter.

CHAPTER XXVI.

A FIEND IN HUNAN SHAPE.

Immediately after leaving the commanding
general, as described in the twenty-third chap-
ter, Elliott repaired to his quarters, and after
writing off a single copy of the general order
which he had just received, to summon the
regimental officers to a council called his vol
unteer valet to his side, and bade hint tran-
cribe the necessary number of copies, and
take them to the officers whom he named
"And is it true, then, that the argry is to
evacuate ithe city, sir ?" asked the young valet.
"It is talked of; curse the idea 1" said te
officer.
You sec in much attached to the city, sir,'
said t tevalet.
"Not to the city, but to some one in it, and
whom I must get ort of it if we leave. You
seem to b- a lad of ready wit, I wonder the t
you have nit discovered my secret crc tbia
If by tihe secret, sir, you ro an your pa;
aion for the lidy under this roof,it is io secret
to me, nor ht r aversion to you  Both I have
already served ; but a still tongue hetolkens
a sentile head, and keep my own counsels.'
"Then, as you are so observing, and to dis-
creet withal, know you not of a plan by which,
if we move, I can transport her to New York
unbeknown to the cilicers, and get her even
more n my power than she now is?"
"It is for 3ou to plan, sir; I am only your
servant, ready to obey orders.'
Tbe valet spoke calmly and meekly, yet bad
Eliott been a good judge ofthumaui nat ore, his
suspicions must have been aroused by the
manner in which the youth evidently sough
to learn his plans.
"I have forced a plan, my good Jones, and
I shall need some one to see it faithfully exe-
cuted. You have been ready and faithfu), so
far, in my service, and to you I think I can
entrust the delicate mission."
"Am I too bold, sir, if I ask the plan you
propose ? '
" No ; it is necessary that you should know
it. I have determined to remove her to a small

vessel . hick I shall charter, and send it
around to New York either before us or ac-
companying the transport vessels. The ab-
ducti;n from this house will occur in my ab-
sence, and be so conducted that I shall appear
to have nothing to ao with it."
"But whom can you trust, sir? Not your
drunken corporal and'his guard."
l oy n means. I have a trusty fellow, one
Tow Rifey, engaged, who has done many an
odd job for me, and he will get good men to
aid him. All that I wish you to do is to super-
%ise toe matter, and then to accompany him
to see that no harm befalls her, for among such
a rough set there is no knowing what might
be dr e."
IHol Eiliott seen the lah which darkened
the ceek, and the shuddet which shook the
for u. of the  outh, when Riley's name was
menirned, 1e might have suspected danger,
but he did not.
" Wnat think you of the plan, Jones?" he
cowinied.
-' If Exertet as wtaiell as it is laid, sir, it can-.
not fitl; but I must hasten with these orders."
"True, my lad, and I will spend an hour
with the fair Cora. It is a pleasure for me to
tease Oer; the day is not far distant when I
will bumble her rebel pride ; when on her
bended knees she will sue to be my wife.
hasten with the orders, Jones, and be secret."
Certainly, air ; as recret as the grave," and
the va'et at once commenced his duties.
ELbiott now entered the parlor of the man
sion. No one seemed to be in it; for though
dimly lighted, his eye could scan every part
of it.        *
"With herrebel father, I suppose, as usual,"
be muttered. " If she is not in soon I will ring
for her impudent maid, and send for her."
So saying, he cast himself down upon the
old fashioned sofa. Hardly had he touched it,
when a grunt so loud and unearthly came from
underneath it, that he bounded at a singleleap
to the centre of the floor. He was speechless

"
' r;
a
m -
r   r
,:
NN4j+  i
a'  'F '
r- v
i
t Ly
a#
,
xf,
t
},.   " .
,  , li ". 2dr^i
;'Ta
(
' _
.  fi  1
r
t

If

48


TUFF MAST-O'-W AR -MAN'S QUUDG 1.                51

both with surprise and terror. At the same
moment a black head with two great protrud-
ing eyes stuck out from beneath the sofa, like
the head of a ninety year old snapping turtle
emerging from its bell.
 "The devil !" muttered Elliott.
"Ki Massa, you a-most sqush ole nigger !"
said a voice issuing from the head, and then
the misshapen form of old Cato dragged itself
into light.
S"W hat were you doingunder thatsofa, you
black rascal "
"I creep in dere, massa, for try catch um
sleep a lilly bit. Ole nigger no tink de sofa so
low nasy bump he back."
Well, never try that bunk again. Now go
into Mr. Bedford's room and tell Miss Cora
that I wish to see her on special business, and
then crawl off your ugly careassinto the entry,
and sleep on the mat if you want to."
"Yes, massa, Ki, you a'most squash ole
nigger dat time."
In a short time after the negro left, Miss Bed-
ford entered. Etuott a-ose and proffered a
seat, wbich, with a gesture of calm dignity,
she refused
"You sent me word that you wished to see
me on business, sir. Business matters require
but fe w wo t3s " -
"Yet, fair Cora, mine requires many ; nay,
turn not away, this may be the last conversa-
tion that we shall ever have in this city."
If I thought such would be the case, I
should listen to the last conversation with
pleasure." replied the spirit ed gill.
"It probably will be. Our army is about to
evacuate the city."
"It is? Then our hole Washington is ap-
proaching. He yet will conquer."
"Perhaps; but now, Miss Bedford, you will
sit down and converse with me for a little
while, will you not ?'
" Yes ; but ,I hope that on this occasion you
will forbear your usual insults, and endeavor
to act the man, if not the gentleman.-I would
not be sounreasonableas to ask you to attempt
the latter character," continued the lady, as
she took a chair at come distance from the
sofa.
"Ever cruel, ever satirical, beautiful Cora,'
said the uilicer, trying to assume a calm and
gentle tone, w  ich his every look belied.
"You had better proceed with your busi-
ness, and forbear your disgusting and fulsom
flatteries, w bich come to me like the exhala
tions of a hennel." -
"My husitees! Cora Bedford, I have bu
one business--one thought: I love you-
madly love ' u. The more you hate me tb
moreI love you. WinyouI will; if by fai
means, 'ell,, f got-"
" Well, sir; if not?"
"Tben, by Heaven, I care not how foul thi
means are, or a hat Oeeomes of the casket after
I have once won and worn the jewel which i

contains. Once more I ask you, will you
marry me?"
"No ; a thousand times no!"
"Would you not if I would desert the king's
cause, and east my sword and influence on the
side of the rebels r'
"Would you do that? Would you be a trai-
tor a second time, and doubly perjure and
damn yourself?"
"To win you I would do anytfdg, say,
shall my sword and influence be the price of
your hand ?"
"No, you poor poltroon, no! One is weaker
than the wooden truncheon of a fool, the other
more valueless in a good cause than dust in
the air."
"Will you give me your reasons for this
scorn and hatred 1"'
"Yes. First, you are a coward-an imita-
tion of a man-destitute of principle honor,
truth, everything which can enforce respector
win regard.. You are a low tory, a black-
hearted s'dueer, a contemptible libertine !
-Marry you! sooner would I clasp the'fout fiend
of hell to roy breast than cali you husband !"
"Cora Bedford !" cried the officer, his face
purple with passion, and his voice husky with
rage, "you have sealed your own fate. You
are now in my power-never shall you escape
from it. Trink you 1 was serious when, but a
moment since. I asked you to lwcome my wife?
No, I did but taunt you with my words.
Within one week you shall be my--"
He arose, bent his mouth to her ear, and, in
a whisper, hissed the word wbich lie scarce
dared to speak aloud. Quick as the flash of a
warrior a sword when it cleaves to a foetan's
skull, her small, white hand swept through the
air, and smote him so shortly upon the cheek
that lie fairly reeled herieath the blow.
In a moment, his hand was upon his sword
She quailed not, but rose, and, with folded
arms, looked him in the face, and cried:
"Strike, you coward! You, who dare-not
face a man, asrikel"
He paled before her indignant glance. He
did not draw his sword,'but, with a bitter look,
he said:
"To-morrow, proud girl, you shall sing
another tune. This night rest, if you can; I
, shall, for I am wearied ; but mark you now,
your fate is sealed. Neither heaven nor hell
- neither angels nor fiends. %an save you ?"
e He turned and departed, and she listened tr
- his heavy footsteps, as he i'etired to his sleep.
ing apartments, and slammed the door to, se-
t curing it,.as was his wont, with more pleasure
- than she had felt that nitht. But after he was
e gone, her calmness, her courage, her haughty
r pride gave way, and she sank upon the sofa,
and, bowing her face in her far, soft banda,
wept bitterly-sobbed as\ if her heart waa
e breaking.
r    A step-a hand laid upon her shoulder-her
t name, breathed softly, aroused her.

11


THE MAN-O'-WAR'S.MAN S GRUDGE,

CHAPTER XXVII.
A   WELCOME   VISITOR.
She raised her head, and a scream of joy and  have effectually secured the corporal, by con-
sur rise \,':l I  e escaped her lips, had not fining him, secured as he is now, in some dark
Fins hianul  r _- ti hr mouth, his look cautioned turner of your cellar, I shall return with the
her Lot to   ik Ludly. But she kissed the trusty man who is now guarding the soldier,
hanl wli', 1tl 1.1,1 to her lips, and when lie to the low tavern where the plot wai prepared,
r.     L       rv ilced his arm around her ard endeavor to so ingratiate myself into the
W3t.'h a-     ,, ri1-lanudord's good graces as to beenme a partici
I  vcts.nerIn.Oh, you      pant in they abdi etion. If I flail in this, fear
i : itl jril, dear Barney  !  not; my vesuel, filled wih daring men who
V..      -t( ira. I know all,' replied our for my sake, would rush into any danger, is*
1.            nrd to all that has hap- niar, well concealedl, and with thensi Jcan cut
p t'  :t        im -nce he sent for you. I  my way through the whole fleet, or, at the
a                r moment to aid you ; but, worst, bear you in safety to the American
r             ire, you were an over-match  lines "
fir   i   .  .. I could hardly keep from      But the corporal will be missed in the
iai feri             openly."            morning, and will not that put Elliott on his
.fearful danger here, within  guard ?"
"  m"mies?                   "Not at all. Desertions are not infrequent
r lies in the battery of in the British army now, thank Heaven, so fear
1 1    iallnt seaman,       not. And now, love, a sweet farewell--I shall
htle  did you pass the  be ever near you."
- i completely environed   "And ever, dear," she responded, nor did
she blush with anything but pleasure when his
dIto boarding, and yourr lips were fondly pressed to her own. Bidding
The corporal is bound, her to return to her fahe r, and not by sign,
a . nilni i ard."look or word reveal a hope which' might put
l g    '  '-'  . "                   Elliott on his guard, Barney returned to the
uIi'       m ire here, and has returned to room  where lie had left Thompson and the
hei g          croi eurj oral  But, dear Cora, we corporal.
have   }r   '     nt niatters to talk about.  lie found the latter bound as he wasleft, but
A             ht c   I Ii'  heard in detail, is already  looking unutterable things-things which he
form. .t     -a.1mhun for your abmuction, to- ' could riot have spoken, eveni if he had not been
iu-i rra  ..   I can and will rescue you, tongue-tied, for there wrs the hated blue-jacket
but rot, I f. ir, before you are removed from 'drinking another glass of his favorite rum
this Lo       ane  I earnt muster force enough to punch, brewed by the hand of the faithless
risk a fight here, where thiestreets are full of sol- Eliza, whose attentions to him were by no
die-s  lut it is the villain's intention to have  means equivocal. The hopes of the two hun-
you taken aboard a vessel. From  that, with  dred and seventy pounds had withered in the
my brave crew, I can easily rescue you-in  bud-the hopes of matrimony and its delight-
fact, I hope to so manage it, as to be one of ful subsequents had vanished, even as that
your abductors. When the attempt is made, punch was disappearing down JimaThompson's
rma e -mri -   :ce. I shall be near, and, throat.
deaueat, whbi'e I live you shall be safe."   But the severest cut of all was yot to come.
IHow did you learn this plan?"         When Barney asked Eliza if there was not
h I everhearl it from the lips of the villain some dark, still place, where the corporal
himself, while lie was engaging a man to exe- could be stowed for the next twenty-four
cute it. In this disguise, I was seeking infor- hours, she, without hesitation, mentioned the
motion to enable me to approach you, when  ash-hole in the cellar.
fate threw everything into my hands. After I  "No one ever goes there except to empty

,,
}  ,
,,,


THE MAN-O'-WAR S-MAN'S GRUDGE.                           53
the ashes," she said, "and I'll do that myself to spite the poor lobster-backed sojer, but
to-morrow, for I shall want to see how he gets she up and tells me, right afore his face, as how
tonmonrowlor nots.' she'c been in love with me ever since I met
Drill looked dnggers, st it was of no avail, her on the wharf the morning I shipped aboard
and, by direction of Barney, he was shouldered the Sachem. I wanted to sheer off, and tel
by Thomson and carried down into the place her my reasons why, but I was afeard I might
designated.                               make bad work, and run afoul of some of your
"There's a few rats in the cellar-not the honor's calculations, so I belayed my jaw-
kind there was in the cupboard-but as they  tackle, received her salute, and  re
don't eat raw pork when they can get cheese, again in the same way."
I guess they'll not hurt you, dear," said the  "How else would you b, Jim, under the
commiserating Eliza, by way of consolation, circumstances?"
as she left the corporal.  w"Right up, like a man, and told her as how
After arranging matters and signals for use, I had a craft already, as hailed under my name.
if required, Barney now retired by the way he It's all very well for these shovel-nosed land-
came accompanied by his trusty friend,   sharks to go- swiminn about among women
"Ca'n." said Jim, in a low tone, after they under false colors, deceiving every poor gal
had cleared the wall, and were in the street that comes in their wake, btatu  ere
"I feel kinder dubersoine and bad, some way." sailor would almost as soon turn u sojer, and
"What's the matter, my lad? I thought no he'd quit rum and tobacey afore he'd do that.
dangerhol mfrightenou where I led the  It went agin my natur, cap'n, and her kisses
way."                                     kind o' scorched me. I felt like a mouse in a
"You didnt lead the way in this 'ere dan- tar-bucket, and wanted- to get out."
ger as troubles mc, cap'n. You see ther's  "Well, I guess you won't get in the serape
nothing' so troubles me as sailin' under false again my lad but be on your guard now.
colors where a woman's consarned."       Forget that I'm your officer, and rough it with
"I don't understand you."a   .'.       me as a sh-ip-mate. We're close aboard of the
"No, sir! Then I'll tryto make it plainer tavern where we engeged lodgings. I want
to you. You see, arter that woman, or gal, that to get the old codger to engage us for a scrape.
you called 'Liza, came back from pilotin' You let me do the talking-side in with every-
you where you wanted to go, she sheered right thing I say or do."
alongside o' me, and smacked a kiss right  "A  ay, sir.
aboard of my chops. At first I thought it was

r

it
Gl

J r

t "
i_


54              THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

CHAPTER XXVI.
THE ARRANGAMENT OF ABDUCTION.
" Hallo, lads 1hack again ?  You staid out four more of our shipmates that's adrift;
so late I d ruade up my mind you'd slipped  they're all staunch, tidy lealoer like us, who
and found mr'iIc ,hri snrmztn' ground l" said  know all that a sailor ought to knots, and no
Riley, the iaridford, as he recognized his cus- more!"
towers, weitlt a knowing glance of his single  "Maybe you might!" sail the landlord,
eye-                                      closely scanning the speaker with his one ocu-
No tioongnt o' that, sir, with such a good  far brilliant. "I want stout ready bandE, and
berthin' plice and such capital grog as this. trusty ones-especially as I shall, most likely,
Won't Sop tnak-eus a couple of night caps, take charge of the craft myself. Licht a pipe
and take one 'y urself, sir? We've been down  apiece, and I'll tell you what von have to do!"
to a danc -house out we didn't like their   The pipes were lighted, and the landlord re-
grog, r'1esriedB Iarney.                  sumed his conversation.
"As y'i seem To he pretty good hearty fel-  "There is an army char that has taken a
lows, I dro t care if I do take a tod with you, fancy to a girl here, who doesn't, like hirnover-
seein' bat Im gong to shut up soon !" said the ly and above common, and as it is likely the
landlord, mixmrg the grog.                army winl move to New York soon, he wants
Here Bsuccess to our next voyage, if we her carried over there without any fuss being
ever get a berth again l" eaid Barney, as he made about it.  He is willing to comra down
drank of hie class,                      handsomely for the job; and I've undertaken
"Maiybeelcant look you up one !" said the it !"
landlord, as he looked at the inverted bottom  "Yes. sir-that is all natural--he 'ikes her,
of his gles3.  "What kind of a berth would  and is willing to pay well to pet her. Fr my
you like :"                               part, I nevercared enough for a woman to take
"Oh, a most any kind to keep us busy-   that much trouble for her!" said Barney.
we've go. a few shot in the locker, it's true,  "No, nor Y.  I always thought they was
but it won't do to spend all o' them and find about aswallyableasyaprehchertaboardshp
ourselves on a lee shore without ne'er a stiver added Thompson.
to jrg'e against an anchor fluke.  Any berth  'Well-it's a bargain, my lads-and if you
is better tnan none, you know, with fellers are sure you can get about four or five more
that am't constitutionally given over -to lazi- of the right sort, who won't blab, you can look
ness !"                                   them up in the morning.  I expect we'll be
"May be I could get you a good berth for a wanted to-morrow night.  At any rate, it's
short trip, that would pay well!" said the  free feed and free grog for the party, here, till
landlord, as, unast ed he replenished the three  we're called for."
glasses. "A fiend of mine wants a dozen or  "All right, sir-and now I reckon Jim and
less of good smart lands to run a little cargo me had better turn in, if you'll show us where
to New York-I might ge: you a berth there !" to bunk I"
" We'd be thatkil, sir," said Barney, hard-  The landlord first closed his place and then
ly able to conceal his satisfaction; "it would led them into loft, where several unoccupied
be easer for us to get a berth in'New York, cotbeds,ranged in arow,were waiting focrthem
than here, and wages are low here now."   Thompson was soon wrapped in a sound srtum-
sTot true,". said the landlord, who well ber, but the mind of Barney was too busy to
knew thrit wages would double as soon as the permit sleep to visit in aetrela to i heart
ewe f the imrnrded evacuaion of the city was was full of joy that he had diseoverai their"
abtoad.u  ! tsink 1 can engage you--that is, lanous plot, and arrived in time to avert it.
for abort siw dollars tie run"            Moreover, he was anxious as to the result of
Wcres won dot be of no particular ac- the adventure, although he could not doubt its
cout fur so short a run, to a good port to success, for everything seemed to work into
ship frsrm, sir, at d if Jim, here, is agreed, I'm  his bands.
sure that I am                                  .'Aftethe landlord had lighted the men to
"Where yt u goes, I go ! That's as sure as bed, he returned to smoke his pipe out an tie
strilhm'- a dolphiu in a six knot breeze !" said the strings of his "night-cap;'pin ot aods,
Thom pson, empty ing the glass which the land- to take another snifter of rt- bothefroreb turn
lord plneed befo,'e himad                                              freheturn-
lord Ad    hee him.                     e in Probably he, too, reflected on the chances
"And may be we could look up three or of the adventure-undoubtedly he felt as sure

Vf
if

TUE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN S GRUDGE.                              65
'f success in his interations, as Barney in his-- ship in it one day out of seven, kneel to a god
do    ieies  y  i ng A  a e asanatly  on  of gold  within  it, even  as they  serve the fiend
the profits for  ltott had offered him five hun- of gold six daye without its was. Entera the
tre pods in gold, for the safe delivery of Crist there who says-" blessed are the hum-
the girl in New York, and he calculated to ble, fr they shall see the kingdom of heaven"
clear at leest four hundred by the operation. -enters He there?
Like most men, he worshiped at the shrine NoI Though He shrunk not from crui-
of the great Juggernaut of humanity,Mammon. fixion between two thieves-He would scorn
Talk of the idolatry of the heathen?  Bah! such company as those tinselled dross-wor-
Look at the tall spared ehureh-it only cost shipers!  But vast, In writing a novel, not
half a million of dollars, and those who wor- preaching a sermon.

C

K,
a
'}, ',
Y LTA
N J
9    - .
i'MJ
;  A '1
Y        ,
t
'.
5yY {  s4. :
i
.
"~
"
fy
'c ii {
.
i ' SvYj'
4  1
i ,  r
s             1
- c a
Y-F
r   a  .
k
a e
% ,
,z'
r
,
"  ' i
figst
S
dYf
L
}
3
i
F
)'
Y.
:!

2te

CHAPTER XXIX.
aTnAfiGE     INTEnvIEW.
It was laterstill and in the apartmentwhich  with the lady-if she has retired to rest I can
had been allotted to him. sat the valet so lately  arouse her-at leat I will try e
employed by Etliott, and in whom the young  Cora had not retired to rest, The events of
to  officer seemed toplaceso much confidence. the evening had excited her too much for that.
His clothing had not been removed, nor had And when a very gentle tap at the door of the
his head pressed the pillow. He, too, like room in which she sat, an ante-room to that
those whom we left in the last chapter, was in in which her father slept, fell on her ear, she
a mood refleetive. In a low tone, he muttered  arose and opened the door, supposing that no
his thoughts.                             one but Biza would be so bold as to seek ad-,
"So,"., he said, "the villain Elliott must mittance at that hour.
have another victim-he cannot win her by   She started back, and would have closed the
perfidy, but shrinks not from vile dastardly 'door in his face, had he not spoken in a mild
force to attain his ends. He must be foiled-- and gentle tone:     think that 1 am
she must be saved. How can I best attain this  "Be not angry, lady, norh
end, and carry out to the full, my own cher  rude; I have that to impart to your ear which
ished revenge? I can foil the abduction. I is of very serious importance ."
can assist her to escape-but that is only a  "If it is a message from your master, I will
drop in the bucket. Itis his heart's bleod that spare you the trouble of its utterence "
I want. Not death in a moment, without*     "It is not, lady. I sin your friend-I'would
agony, for I could slay him at any hour ! No! preserve you from harm !"
he must die a death of shame and ignominy !  "I fear no danger-he cannot harm me "
He must know, even on the verge of eternity,  "He has harmed-ruined others I He is
who it was that brought him to it ! He must. soulless and vile-unprincipled and unserupu-
taste all the Letrerness of the gall of retribu- bus !"           -
tion! He must know how 'well ant can hate   "Then why do you aerve him, if ycu know
who loved so madly and so blindly. But I him to be so?"
must tell her of his intentions, and assist her  "To work an end of my own, which I can-
to escape this night. I can pass her out easily  not at present reveal.  I am your friend-his
If the council of officers have decided his lord- deadliest foe !"
ship to evacuate the city to-morrow, it may  "I cannot believe that.. You serve him-he
precipitate Elliott's intended action even be- boasts of your zeal and faithfulness."
fore the night comes on. But if my despatches  "Lady, I am not what I eem!"
reach the American head-quarters in time,   "So i    t w     at I am t"
General Washington may make movements       "So t would abuear, if that tomelieve your
which wilt etard the evacuation  Ab, little own Ste   t    what isthat   d  e.
does Elliott know the web I am weaving      "Alas! lady-you will not understand  me.
around him.   But I will seek an interview  I am a lost and wretched creature-a victim of

ii
ii

- -'-we         -      Ifl


{
l
x
.
i

THE MAN-O'-WARS'-MAN S GRUDGE.         67

s.~

56                     THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.
his infamous perfidy-but I cannot see him   "I cannot leave my father."
ruin you. I am of your own sex !"       "Lady, he can accompany you. He has so
As he said this, the valet rem oved the au- + far recovered that he can walk a short dis-
burn wig, and her own dark glossy hair was tance, ant I have means at my disposal which
revealed. A womanly blush, too, came upon will enable me to send you in safety to the
her cheek.  It was none other than Car oline American lines!"
Ormsly.                                     "Again I thank you, but I shall remain; I
"Now   you winl believe that I am your know Lieut. Elliott's intentions, but I do not
friend and his foe, will you not, lady Y"she  fear him. He will fail, for God will protect
asked.                                    the innocent!"
f I will believe that you have great reason  "Oh wh did He no
to be his enemy, but I see not why you should  h        d     ot protect me ? I war
be my friend I',                          innocent!" moaned the unhappy woman.. Then
be  ay, Iend wl turning again to Cora, upon whose pale face a
"Lady, I will prove it. I came here to as  look of sympathy beamed like sunlight on a
sist you to escape from this house-to escape  bed of Ii
from him, before he can carry out his plan of  eofolies, she added:I will save you in
having you carried hence by minions of his spite of yourself!"
own, to suffer even more than I have suffered ; She turned away and left the room, gently
for when he wronged me I knew it not, and  closing the door herself as she left ; first, how-
returned the traitor kisses which betrayed ever, resuming her wig of auburn hair. She
me."                                      did not caution Cora to keep her secret-her
"I thank you for your offer, but I prefer woman's heart told her that such caution
remaining where I am!"                    would be unnecessary.
Lady, you doubt me--I see distrust in the  After she had left, Cora thought of her last
coldness of your looks; perhaps you think I  words, and fearing some precipitate act of hers
am but a tool to forward his designs !"   might overthrow the plans of Barney, almost
"I do not wish to think so-yet you might regretted that she had not told her that a plan
be !"for her rescue was on foot ; but then distrust
Oh, lady, by my past wrongs I swear.-bv  again entered her heart, and she thought she
my hopes of a speedy and terrible revenge, I had acted wisely in not revealing the secret to
swear that I speak only truth. I wish to serve one whose own word was the only surety of
you ; let me guide you from the house."   her faith.

Among the British forces, the next day, im-
portant preparations were made for some se-
rious movement. Althoughthe orders had been
kept studiously secret, yet in some manner the
rumor had gone abroad that the city was to
be evacuated. There was gladness on the faces
of many of the citizens, which they scarcely
made an attempt to conceal, while others-
rank tories at heart-looked sad and distrustful,
for they knew that the departure of the Brit-
ish army, and the re-occupation of the city by
the Americans, would bring them no good.
Another class felt even more sadly-the liquor
dealers and the panderers to licentious vices
and pleasures, who ever hang like' jackals
about an army when it is at rest-for they
knew that the well fed, well clad, and well paid
ritish army,.would be replaced by an army
.  bich, though patriotie,had neither leisure for
ilulgence,nor moneys to dissipate. Never be-
tre. since nations have held a right to be con-
fidered civilized, has a war been carried on
y  iti les financial assistance than was our Revo-
lution. Officers served not only without pay,
but beggared themselves to clothe and feed
their troops. With bare, feet, unmurmuring
troops marched over frozen clods and icy
ground, leaving their own blood upon the trail.
' Men who had not a blanket to rest upon at
night, nor a tent to shelter them from wind
and rain, still struggled on, hoping to free their
country from the thraldom- of tyranny. And
through indomitable energy, unwavering per-
severance, and a patriotism which no danger
could appal, no reverses discourage, by the
aid of Almighty God, they succeeded. We
became a nation among nations-a star of
liberty in a sky once darkened with the rain-
cloud of oppression. And how have we-their
descendants-repaid those noble men for their
sacrifices? Go look at the squabbles of our
leaders in the Senate chamber and in the Con-
gressional halls! Go look at the leaders, for-
getting country and party ; and even party and
self. only workingto fill their coffers with spoils
from the people, and not for the public honor
or good-for a reply ! Go ask for the graves
of your Revolutionary sires ! they are un-
marked-even the memory of their deeds is
passing away ! Alas! that such things should be
but they are!

It was noon. Riley, the landlord, had an
interview with Elliott, whose plans were laid
for the abduction to take place at midnight
on that night. The latter had chartered a
small, swift-sailing vessel, leaving the manning
of her entirely to Riley, as well as the manage-
ment, only providing that hisvalet, John Jones,
was to take charge of the lady, and attend to
her wants and her disposal on the arrival of
the vessel. Riley, glad to get a crew on such
easy terms, had accepted the services of tae
disguised Barney, and seven of his asso-
ciates, who had already been on board of
their new craft, and seen that she was prepar-
ed for sea.
She was a very pretty schooner, built very
sharp, for those days, though not exactly v hat
would be termed a clipper at this time. She
was built for sailing in shoal water, but had
very nice accommodations, having been the
yacht of Mr. Robert Morris, the~ financial
savior of his country. Barney saw at a
glance that, bad she been a little Heavier-she
was only about forty tons' measurement-she
would have made an invaluable cruiser for the
bay and river,-if well manned. She had been
seized and confiscated by the British when the
city was taken. She had been named "The
Mary" by the original owner, after bis beau-
tiful and amiable bride, who had been Miss
Mary White, the belle of the city.
Attached to the vessel was a swift-rowing
gig. Barney had managed to have a good
supply of arms and/ammunition concealed on
board, and his men, beside, had armsconcealed
on their persons.
During the day he managed to exchange
signals, unobserved, with his lady love; and,
though their hearts trembled with anxiety,
they felt confident of success. Each party
deemed their plans perfect, and such as could
not be overthrown.
As night drew on, it was generally rumored
that, guarded by the men.of-war and strong
flanking columns, the transports would move
down the river on the morrow, and the city be
evacuated.
Evening, with its darkening shadows, came
on, and came early, for a storm was setting
in. Although it was June, a cold northeast
wind swept in with heavy clouds, and every-

J

CHAPTER XXL
RUMORS OF AN EvACUATION.


i
E
e
}
3
k
i
E

fit,

thing looked chill and gloomy. Barney,
however, was pleased with the aspect of the
weather; it wounO render his movements more
easy, his digun-e more safe, and, with the
wind as it was, he could lay up the river with
the wind, close hauled, or scud down it if he
wished.
He alone, of all the Mary's erew, was per.
fitted to reman on shore during the even-
ing, by .il y; wo made a kind of mate of
him, in conseqienite 'of his apparent supe-
rior intel'1taenee. The landlord, knowing how
fond seamen were of grog, and not knowing
his customers, thought it a matter of wisdom
to keep them where they would not be tempt-
ed to indulge to excess before he needed them
for action.
"It's going to be a nasty night, sir," said
Barney to in, as they looked out from the
door of the old tavern.
"Yes, but all the better for us," said Riley.
"If the gel should tate it into her head to
squall. it 1 be sharp ears that would hear her
en such a night as this. Fewer people will
be abroad, and when once we're aboard the
schooner, we'll run down the river under

such a breeze, as if the devil had kicked us on
end!"
"Isn't it nearly time we went on board, to
get the men ready, sir ?"
-  No, not for two hours yet," said the land-
lord, glancing at a huge bull's-eye which he
drew frota his wateh-fob; then, squinting to'
windward with his one eye, he uttered : ""It-ll
blow a snorter to-night. I reckon a couple of
horns won't set us back for the night's work,
my lad."
Suiting the action to the word, the landlord
mixed a couple of stiffeners of grog for himself
and Barney, and then lighted his pipe. His
substitute behind the bar was like himself in
one respect, and singular in all others. He
had lost an eye, aleo a leg and arm, and went
under the name of " One-sided Jack," Like
most men who have been deprived of a portion.
of their limbs, he was unusually active with
what had been left to him., He had been a
kind of useful pensioner to Riley, and took
charge of matters for him at all times when the
latter was called from hia post by inclination
or business.

CHAPTER XXXI.
?NE cOaPORAL MIsSED.

It wa sea-y on the metig of thiasday,-when,
anxious cni reRtless. Elliott, having risen
from  his bld, called for the corporal of the
guard to re'-iv. hii usual report. Cato, whom
he had sent fir tiat purpose, soon returned,
and, with a  road grin upon his sable face,
said:
"Corporal ro dare, massa-him gone."
" Gine-the devil 1"
"0 e bigger iot know, massa, if him gone
to de dei or nit-he not nowhar now."
Seid one of the otrer soldiers to me, and
make haste, you black imp !"
In a shirt time one of the other soldiers
made his appearance.
"Woere i. Corporal Drill? Why is he ab-
sent from his post ?"
I do not know, sir," replied the soldier,
saluting.  'It- hs not been even since ten or
eleven o'clock last nigbt, 'when he called us out
to look for a ghost that Miss Bedford's maid
Taw     o       go
"To look for a ghost? What sort of acook

and bull story is that you are teliag? Art,
you drunk?"
" No, lieutenant. At about the time I name,
he came out of the room where he had been
sitting with her, and called four of us to
go into the yard with him to see if any one
was there. The woman had been frightened,
he said, by what she thought was the ghost
of a sailor looking in at the window. He
thought there was some one in the yard, but
there was no one, nor any sign of any one.
We looked carefully. He should have relieved
guard at midnight, but he did not, and the-
sentinel called his relief himself. The cor-
poral has not been to his bed during the
night."
'Why did you not tell me of this earlier ?"
"Because we were in' hopes the corporal
would return before you were up, sir. He is
always very regular."
"Always was till he got in love with that
devilish waiting maid and her punch. Axe hi
aceoutrementa in their place V"

U' =

THE MAN-O'-WARS-MAN S GRUDGE.

69

"Yes, sir."
It can hardly be that he has deserted,"
muttered Elliott. thoughtfully. "Have you
asked the waivng maid anout him?"
"Yes; sir; she says he left her right away
after we searched the yard."
"S e may know where he went to; send
her to me, and wine she is here, search her
room. A man makes a fool of himself when
he is in love wili a woman, sometimes.''
The solier saluted again, and departed to
obey his orders.
"Strage !" muttered Elliort, as he paced to
and fro in the room. " I cannot thin that
Drill nas deserted, but that woman may have
induced him to do it. I will soon learn "
In a few moments Etiza entered the room.
Her face was as demure as that of s country
maiden in church when she hears her banns
read fo' the fire, time.
"Did the lieutenant instruct the soldier to
say that I was wanted i" she asked.
" "He did. Wnat story is this about a ghost
that I bear?' demanded Elliott, fixing his
eyes keenly upon tier, to read, if possible, any
change in her countenance.
"On, the ghost. Well, sir, I don't hardly
believe. on desidera'ion this morning, that it
was a gt at  I think, as the corporal did,
that it was a phantaswy of the imagination.
You see, sir, I am rather nervous. and-tie
corpora', sir, was speakrig on a very delicate
subj-et sir-one very affectations to a young
and unprtected female girilike me, sir-when
all to ovine I thought I saw the face of an old
sweetheart looing at me through the window,
andIscreeceed right out. Then the corporal
be swo'e, sir, and got the men and went and
looked fir the ghost, bit couldn't find it And
that's alt I know about the ghost, sir."
"But not all ttat you know about the cor-
poral  W hohec      of him after that?"
"The Lord only knows, sir. He oniysopped
to take a single giaes of punch after be sent
the men away; then he went out of the room,
and I took my candle and went to bed"
"Did you go aone-eh, my fair wench ?"
"Alone, Mr. Elliott? What do you mean
sir?" ~
"I mean that I wish a reply to my question
Did you go alone to your room, or did th
corpor al go with you?"
" Tne corporal go with me ? Oh, you scor
pion ! You audacious calumniationist,! Ir
was a man I d scraeh your eyes out ; I. don'
care if you are a tory lieutenant. A man dar
to go into my room! And you dare to thin]
of such a thing!
At this moment the soldier whom he ha
ordered to search Fliz 'a room returned, hold
ing in his hand a red fgetet. The single chew
ron on toe sleeve, below theelbow, proclaime
at once that it belonged to the corporal.
"We didn't find Corporal Drill in the lady
room, sir,' said the soldier ; "but here," h

1

THE MAN-O'-WAR S-MAN'S GRUDGE-

added, holding up the garment in triumph,
"is a part of his shell !'
"Wdat have you to say now. toy very vir-
tuous, indignantly sanctimonious yonoe ady
of irreproachable character ?" cried Etiott,
with a sneer.
"To say, you mean, nasty tory, that the
corpora gave me that red gjeet.r m-"r noand
asked me to mend that hole inat a hiited out
under the arm  Ana you dare to snot wren to
search my room ! You'd a b-u  a itre bog
ago yourself, but you tnew l'a y reak y)our
head ir yo+1 dared to cross the d  ' --s.Nl' Oh,
i I was a man I'd pull all your ha'n out,!"
E iza now, with anger and a,' titication,
burst into tears
Etiiott waited until the first parixve' was
over, and then ssxed :
"WViin you tell me whereCorpoal lca)rilis?"
"I don't know, nor I don't cs"e, If I did
know -I1 wouldn't tell. I expect. 1  a i here
you ought to be--dead or drone it- i-cutter.
Oh, you monster! I hate you ke-like
everything !'
"II the corporal is not prodote' soon, miss,
I shall told you responsible !" said the iieu-
tenant, w hom the girls anger sev-to 4) it.put
into better humir. "You 1 hu.' " put on
his uniform and take his place; 'e '-as last
seen with you."
"Me put on a man's clothes" enrieked
Eliza. "I'd just like to see yoi mat' t so
I would Y I won't stay here to i4'- u ted no
more   You are worse than a ,To-'.-.nit so
you are !"
She vanished, shuttingthe door as '-e went,
wish a jar that shookt re house.
'-Keep a good Jookout on bee actors. If
anything is heard of the corporate port to
me metantly. You will command t, e guard
until further orders,'' said Elliott
The soldier saluted and tnroa To thev.
"Send Joznes, my valet, to ne' -ctieut the
t officer.
, i a short time the valet appeared l king
preci ely as usual
"Did you attend to the orders las. tght?"
asked E"iotr.
"I did, sir-all were written aid s frly de-
. livered "               "
e    "That is well. Corporal Drtill ,a disap-
peared."
-    " Yes. sir-so a soldier just told n--
I "Have you any idea what co u) n+ave be-
t come of biwm?'
e "None whatever, sir."
k "It is possible that be may have deserted,"
said Eeliott. 'yet I would have t r-te-l him
d  everywhere."
-    "Rle always seemed prompt an-! aithful,
- ir."
d    "He was until he fell in love with ti at wait-
ing maid. D-n the women!1"
's "They seem to give you gentlemen a great
e deal of trouble, airI"


i
s
r
,
#t
,
f
t
z
F
i
c
I
f
t
P
x
{
{jf   4
4
f
3
tr             R
t
k
_
1
i

CHAPTER XXXII.
THE ABDUCTION.

It was eleven o'clock. The storm raged
wildly-whistling through the streets and al-
leys of the town, or through the rigging of
the vessels at the wharves, almost winterishly.
The "all's well" of the sentinels, as they
paced their weary rounds, muffled up in their
thick watch coats, could scarcely be heard
from post to post. Here and there a light
could be seen in the town, but most of the
houses had been darkened, for on such a
dreary night people seldom love to keep late
hours
At this hour, a boat, rowed by six men, with
a seventh sitting in the stern sheets, to steer
her, pushed from the side of a schooner an-
chored close over by the island, opposite Market
street, and pulled in for the wharf. Upon en-
tering the dock, and reaching the landing, four
of the men who rere in the boat followed him
who was in the stern sheets, and sprang on the
wharf. The other two were directed to remain
with the boat.j
As soon as they landed, Riley, for he was
the leader, gatheredthe men, and, in a whisper,
gave his final directions. It had been settled
that Elliott should, if Miss Bedford had re-
tired to her room-which Barney knew she
would do, for he had so arranged it with her
as to meet all of Elliott's plans-that he was
to show a single light from a northern window
in the house. Upon the party entering the
house, the sentinel, who was also under in-
structions, was, without noise or resistance, to
suffer himself to be seized, gagged, and bound.
They were then to hasten to the apartment of
the lady, muffle her up in her clothing, if she
had reired, hasten with her to the boat, and
carry her on board the vessel. Elliott was not
to be seen, or appear to know anything of the

affair, nor was his valet, until he joined the
party on board the schooner.
All this was now fully explained to the
men, who had, of course, already received their
orders from Barney, after which, Riley, giving
each man a drink of grog from a huge pocket
flask which he carried in his pocket, moved
onward. Their steps were slow and stealthy
-not a man of the party spoke above his
breath.
On this occasion, the front door of the house
was left unlocked, and everything "worked to
a charm." Scarcely any noise was made in
securing the sentinel, and then, headed by Ri-
ley, Barney and one other, hastenod to the
apartment of the lady.
Barney had expected to find her up and
ready to be willingly abducted. What was
his astonishment, however, to find her sleeping
so soundly that the noise of their entrance did
not awaken her,
"I reckon the lieutenant has drugged her
on purpose, so that she'll make no bother for
us," suggested Riley, as he reached out to
take her in his arms.
Here, let me carry her, I am the strongest
of the party," said Barney, as without a glance
himself, or without permitting the others to
look upon the form of her whom he loved, he
quickly wrapped the quilt and sheets around
her, and raised her tenderly, as if she were a
babe, in his powerful arms. He took occasion
to whisper, to her whom he supposed to be
simulating asleep, "Fear not, my angel."
"Are we not to take the old gentleman
along, too," asked Barney.r.
"No-we're not to bother with him," said
Riley. "Hurry off-the girl is all that I'm
to be paid for."

60                     THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN S GRUDGE.
" Poh! I was not speaking of myself. By  "It shall be done, sir."  And the valet re-
the way, be ready for the matter to-night, of tired.
which I spoke to you last right. I will set-  "I like that Jones," said Elliott, after he
tle that affair to-night, and have it off my had left the room. "He is so prompt and
mind."                                    ready, and seems so faithful. He has such a
"I shall be ready, sir. Any more com- pleasing way with him, too. I never look at
man-is, sir ?"                            him but I think I have seen him before ; yet
"None until after I have breakfasted. You  if so, I cannot remember where. I never
can order my horse to be in readiness then--I knew any Jones except old Jones the pawn-
shall ride."                               broker."

B-MAN'S GRUDGE.

61

THE MAN-O'-WAR'a
Barney would have insisted upon taking her
father, but he dared not risk theething, and he
knew that Elliott would not dare to harm him
after Cora was gone, so he hurried out with
his fair burden-hastening all the faster, as a
singular noise betokened that the house was
*      alarmed. As he passed from the door, he saw
rushing, or rather staggering into the entry,
Corporal Drill, so pale, and covered with ashes,
that he looked more like a drunken miller,
than a soldier in his Britannic Majesty's ser-
vice.
There was no time for a second glance. The
lungs of the corporal were in full play, and
the party rushed for the boat, Jim Thompson
very carefully and considerately, helping Bar-
ney with his burden.
In a few minutes, the party were at the boat.
"Pass her down to the stern sheets-all's
safe now," said Riley, gleefully.
"Let me handle her, I'll do it gently, sir,
so as not to weaken her," said Barney, stepping
carefully into the boat, and drawing the cloth-
ing more carefully around her form, to keep
the chill wind and spray from her.
"All right-but you're uncommon careful
of property that's nothing to you," muttered
Riley.
"She's a woman, and were she to wake in
terror, and commence screaming, it might give
us trouble yet," said Barney, who almost itched
to tell the heartless wretch how dearly he
prized the 'property" which he held in his
arms.
"Shove off. It's deuced strange the lieu-
tenant's valet isn't here-but I'm not going to
wait for him"
"Hole on dah, Massa Riley, please, jest one
minnit, for ole nigger," said a grum voice,
speaking as if its utterer had been on a run-
- "Massa Elliott, he sen' ole nigger to wait on
lady, and said he couldn't spare Massa Jones
jest yet."
"Why, it's Elliott's crooked nigger, a pretty
looking thing to wait on a lady, butI suppose
its all right. Tumble into the bows there,
Ebony-Knot."
"Yes, massa! Ki, massa, you come so fast,
it make ole nigger sweat."
"Yes-I can tell that easy, by the wind,"

said the landlord, as the boat moved out from
the pier.
In a few moments they were alongside the
sohooner, and Barney, who from the start had
not let the lady pass from his arms, stepped on
board, and carried the lady carefully down into
the state-room which had been prepared for
her. . Laying her carefully on the bed, he re-
turned to the vessel's deck. He had no op-
portunity to speak tp her, for Riley was at
his side or heels all the time.
"So far, sogood," said Riley, as they all
stood on the deck. "Now we'll take a nipper
all around, and then we'll get under way"
To this Barney made no objection, and as he
did not, of course the crew assented. Who
ever knew a sailor to refuse a glass of grog?.,
Inthose days, too, everybody took their today,
from the king to the peasant, from the parson
to the grave-digger. It was only a matter of
economy, then, twat made Franklina temper-
ance man. Don't think, however, cold-water-
istical reader, that I mean disrespect to the
temperance cause ; no, indeed-by the thin
shadow of John Chambers I vow I do not.
After a hearty "nip" had been taben all
around, the sails, or at least all she could bear,
a double-reefed mainsail, foresail and jib, with
the bonnets off, were loosed, and the anchor
as noiselessly as possible. In less time almost
than it takes for me to describe it, the vessel
was moving down the river. It had been Bar-
ney's intention to take charge of her at once,
and go up the river, so as to reach his own
vessel, and the sooner get within the Aneri-
can lines, but the wind had veered more to
the northward, and blew so freshly, that he
abandoned the design, and made up his mind
to run down the river, and hide away in a
creek or river until the city was evacuated,
and the British had left the waters of the
Delaware.
The river in front of the city, and for some
distance below, was quite thickly filled with
vessels, but as lights were hoisted on board,
it was easy to avoid them, and they swept on
without being hailed'   Had they been, it
would not have mattered, for Riley had the
pass word. We will now leave them, and re-
turn to the city for a while.

. ._


3
f
I
V
#},
t
i(It
!
{
t
}
r
t
t
i g
1
i
f                    ks
f                    p
1
i
9
1

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE

CHAPTER XXXIII.
WOMAN'S KINDNBas.

Some women are by nature so amiable that
they nver looked cross in their lives, much
lees uterred a harsh word.  Some are so gen-
tle, that it they were to catch a flea in the
act or pu cturiog a vein, and withdrawig
from e et, their tair sin a portion of the
ruby wit,- of Pte, they would not move, for
fear of di-turibiog the earnuverous wretch,
until he tad fitted himself, and then gently,
very Gently, they would removo him and put
him on a piece of perfumed note paper to
rest At least I have dreamed that there are
such women.
Somr- tore are,l know, whose answer to an
unkind 1o0 or a rough word is a tear. Some
there are s gentle and so good that a sore-
headed rear would go beyond his nature if
he was to ice cross to them. A man-a true
ian-woulds ooner swallow a live rattle.
mnate, lead first, than do it.
Some t here are with the very devil in their
nature. thunder on their tongues  lightning
in their eyes, and a hail storm on their breath
They sn- er when they want to smile, they
grin when they want to laugh. Wnen they
weer' it is riot ice the good hearty shower of
April or May-it is like the half frozen drizzle
of Novewber. They act as if they had been,
suck led on buttermilk in their infancy, ands
lived on crab apples ever since. Heaven pre-
serve 'on, reader, without you are a mean,
miserly old bachelor, from such a woman.
Sime there are that . have just a little spice
of ihe dcviu in their natures, just enough for
seasoor, g like pepper in one's hroth. They
delit nr in a itt.le mischief, just for fun's sake
would t do a deliberate wrong, but laugh
themUJsee, half to death it you slipped aad
fell ny n"eaie on an orange peel which they
had p-aced io your way, and if you tore your
uriaenionatles in the fall, would regret that
they hadl no needle and thread ready to repair
the damage     Who would delight, if you
were out with a clean dickey, well blacked
boots, white pants and a new hat, without
ne er an umbrella. to have a good thunder
shover come on when you were just out of
ruining distance of any home, forgetting
themselves and their petti-annoyances in your
more serious trouble.
Some there are, bound to gobalkily through
life it  single harness-scarp-nosed, thin-
skinm.ed, k'ckn'-hy.nature and bitin'-by habit
(back citing 1 mean) creatures, who delight in

breaking off matches, in seeing tears rain tion
young eyes, and misery come cold into young
hearts Darn them (as the gal said about the
ragged stockings) darn them, up hill and
down, all over creation.
Some there are-dear, . blessed, good old
maids-so patient, so kind, so neat, so fond
of giving cakes and goodies to little children,
so ready to nurse the sick, so ready to sacrifice
their own ease to add tothe comfort or others,
so pious, without always shoving a Bible or
tract under your nose and asking you for money
to buy blankets for the liottento's, so ready to
make up a quarrel that has unnecessarily oc-
curred between a young giirl ano her lover, so
blessedly useful everywhere that the man
who would breathe a word against them ought
to be swallowed by the Belgian giant just be-
fore he took another kind of emorie,
I always think of such old maids as I do in
regard to Washington-God kept him  child-
less. that he might be the father of a nation;
so God leaves such old maids husbandless,
that they can be universally motherly, sister-
ly, etc.
But avast-Ned, what are you about.
Reader, really I beg pardon for writing so
much about woman nature, a master in which
I have so little experience. But the subse-
quert matter of this enapter will show you
what set me into the train of thought which
elicited the above.
During the entire day after the morning's
interview with Elliott; Eliza had found her-
self so closely watched that she had no oppor-
tunity to go down into the cellar to see how
the prisoner in the ash-hole got along. Of
course she knew that, so tightly bound and
gagged, he must suffer, but angered and an-
noyed as she was, perhaps she didn't care.
Sne supposed he was safe, and as she never
had cared tor him particularly in her heart,
it is not to be supposed that thoughts of his
sufferings lay very heavy in her bosom. She
was occupied, too, in making, all as carefully
as she could, without attracting notice, prepa-
rations for the intended es.'ape of her mistress,
of wnieh she was fully informed. She wished
much to accompany her lady, but this had
been canvassed and thought improper, as it
would not tally with the rest of the plan. It
had been ordered, to make things work better,
that she should retire early, so as not to ap-'
pear to know anything 0f the abduction before

r
4t   fr
3"  Y
i    Sf
Y
I

62

THE MAN-O'-WAR S-MANS GRUDG           3
the morrow, a time, when she and her mis- Eliza," he faintly whispered ; "I have almost
tress toth fondly hoped the latter would be  perished."
with her lover, tar beyond the power of the He looked so pitiful, his whisper was so be.
hated Elliott.                            seeeching, that womanly tears came into her
After she had gone up to her room-only a eyes. She could not refuse him.
short time before Riley and his party left their "Poor Drill !" she murmured, as she has-
vessel --the 'thoughts of the situation of the tened for the rum.
corporal came strongly into her miid. She  '-I'll*poor Drill' her if ever I get my hands
had considerable of the woman in her heart, and feet free," he. muttered, bitterly, as soon
and then, when she had nothing else partieu- as she was out of sight.
larly to think abort, she thought of him.  In a few moments she returned with the rum.
There he has been, thought she, ever since  "It is sweetened, but I had no lemons,"
midnight last night, bound so that he could she said, as she handed him the desired bay-
not move; not a drop of water or anything erage.
else; he must be dry. Very likely, too, he is The draught did not bring the color to his
hungry.   It won't do any harm, she eon- ashycheek, but it ran like pleasant fire through
tinued to think, to go and see how be is, at his chiled veins. s
any rate. Acti'g upon these thoughts, she   "Miss Eliza, you are a kind angel," he mut-
took her light and going down by a back   tered. "I freely forgive your having me put
stair-case, stealthily descended to the cellar, here, for your goodness now. Will you not
undiscovered by any one.                  loosen the rope that binds my hands, just a
She found the corporal where he had been  little-the veins are almost bursting. it is a
placed, but in his struggles he had rolled to terrible torture."
and fro until he looked literally like a lump of  "1 dare not untie you," said Eliza. "It is
ashes. What was her horror on approaching  my orders not to release youbefore to-morrow
him to find that he was, as she thought. at morning. It was only pity that brought me
least, dead. His face was ghastly white (with here now."
ashes), his eyes were closed (to keep the ashes  "I don't ask you to untie me. If you did I
from  blinding him), he was motionless, be- could not move, for every limb is as stiff as a
cause he was tired out and helpless from long new sergeant on parade. Jest untie my hands
and useless struggling to'free himself from  from behind and tie them before."
knots tied by one who knew how.             That seemed so reasonable that Eliza, who
She felt of his feet---there was still some had already done so much, could not 'refuse
heat in it... life was not entirely extinct. All him. So she, with a great deal of trouble,
the woman seemed to come back into her managed to loosen his hands, and bringing
heart again,                              them before him, tied them as tightly as she
"Poor Drill!' she murmured--" how he    could again.
must have suffered."                        "I must now put the pudding-stick in your
At the sound of hervoice he slowly unclosed mouth again, so that you shall make no noise,"
his eyes, but as quickly closed them again, she added, preparing .to do so
while a shudder of pain ran through his     "Oh, please do not, Miss Eliza. I will not
doubled up form. Ashes in one's eyes are not make any noise," pleaded the corporal, who
as pleasant as diluted rose water.        knew how usefully teeth might be employed
"Poor Corporal!' she again  muttered--- in untying knots.
"he must not sniffer so I" -               Unfortunately for him the lady thoughtaf
She set down her candle, and with trem- the same thing, and was inexorable.
bling hands tried to untie the rope which, tied "You will at least'leave the light here, so
behind his head, firmly fastened the pudding- that the rats will not eat me up, will you not,
stick in his mouth. It was a long time before Mies Eliza ?"' said Drill, as she was about to
she could do it. At last she succeeded. He regag him.
could sot speak, and could hardly bring the  "I see no harm in that," she said, as she
jaws together which had been so asunder. adjusted the pudding-stick in the same man-
With her apron she carefully wiped the ashes ner that it was before ; then bidding him good
away from his mouth and lips. At last.he  night, hurried up to her room.
managed to gasp;                            If she saw no harm in leaving the light
"Water I water ! I'm dying !"           there, the corporal saw some good, for he
Believing that he spoke the truth for once hardly waited forthe sound of her footstepsto
in his life. she rushed up stairs, and in a mo- die away, before he began to bitch his body
ment returned with a cup of water. All wo- toward the candle, which she had left stand-
manly was her action, and she teaderly raised  ing near him. Over its blaze he held the rope
his head upon her knee, and placed the cup which bound his hands, and though as the rope
to his lips. Eagerly be dran of tbe cool, re- bu ned his flesh too suffered, he bore the tar-
freshing water, until not a rop remained in tu i~blike an Indian warrior at the stake, and
the cup.       /.in a few minutes the rope was burnedthrough,
"Can you not get me a little rum, Miss and his hands were free.

J

i
t
i
t
c
r
t
t
}
i
4
}i
ji
!(1
4
}{i
{}
}3
R
F
f
{
}(            6
t
jt
j3#p
lg
[;

!F
3
[fir
Y
I
F  F
1


THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

Pausini for a moment to recover the use of
them, and for the pain to subside, he planned
his future actions. Putting his hand in a
pocket, lie drew forth a small knife, and with
its aid he soon had the gag out of his mouth,
and his feet were free.
"Curse her-I'll fix her off for the trick, the
false-hearted jade, as sure as I'm a corporal!
As for her blue-jacket-lover, ramrods and
wadding ! only just let me citch him once !'
He now attempted to rise, but at first he
could not stand. After resting a little while,
and permitting circulation to resume its course,
he was able to get up, and taking the light, he
staggered up stairs. His first visit was to the
closet where Eliza kept the rum bottle. A
hearty swig at this soon made him a little
more elastic, but he could hardly navigate,
when he put the candle down asd went to
visit the guard. As he opened the door which
led into the entry, he saw that it was filled
wi h eF-e-nen, recognised Et' i's blue jacket
lover, and saw that one had a female in his
arn .
' Treason! Robbery! Guard, turn out!"
he shouted.
His cries aroused the whole house, and in a
few moments all the soldiers were standing
around him, looking at his singular figure, and
asking where he came from, and what was the
matter.
At the same moment another person from
outside was added to the group. It was none
other than Elliott, who, having seen the party
of seamen issuing with their prize from the
house, supposed that all was right, and now
advanced to inquire into the cause of the up-
roar, which he supposed he could unfathom
more readily than any one there.
Where have you been, sir? Drunk as
usual ?" he asked, with difficulty restraining a
laugh ac he looked at the extraordinary figure
of the corporal.
"Not drunk, sir !" cried the corporal, bring
ing his hanl up to a salute, with a jerk which
threw a:thes into the eyes of his nearest neigh-
bars ; " not drunk, sir, but most damnably
abused! '
'What is the meaning of this uproar?'
"Why. sir, after I escaped from my confine-
ment in the ash hole, I saw as I came to alarm
the guard. a party of soldiers here in the entry,
and they were carrying off a lady-Miss Bed-
ford, I suppose-and I, as in duty bound,
raised the guard
" On. is tbat all? If neor  hoose to carrv

tenant, with assumed carelessness ; but ere he
had finished what he intended to say, a change
came over the spiritof his dream, and a shadow
fell upon "the light of his countenance." This
was occasioned by the appearance of an addi-
tion to the group in the shape of Miss Cora
Bedford and her maid Eliza, who, with can-
dles in their hands, and fully dressed, came
out from the direction of their rooms.
"What means this mummery? Are you en-
joying a masquerade?" asked Cora, of Elliott,
who gazed upon her as if he could hardly be-
lieve his eyes, and realise that she stood before
him.
Miss-Bedford !" he stammered, "really
-I-I thought you had retired !"
"No, sir, I had not, and from the noise out
here supposed the house was on fire !"
Alas ! poor Cora, she did not tell all the
truth, but it be-and-bye will come out, we
suppose. Detained through an artifice which
ahe could not  plain, or for what purpose
she knew not, by being locked in a room near
that of Eliza, to which she went by request of
the negro Cato, to see "Massa Jones jeat for
one mnnit," as he said, she had been unable
until a fe-v minutes before, to escape. She had
had been liberated Eliza, whose attention she
had attracted, and had hastened down on hear-
ing the noise, supposing that it was caused by
the intended movement of Barney. St e, too,
was almost as much surprised as Elliott was,
by the arpearauce of matters, although both
her and Eliza knew why Corporal Drill looked
as he did, though neither could account for his
release.
What Elliott thought could not at that mo-
ment be ascertained, for a mounted ordely rode
up to the door and cried:
" lieutenant Elliott is wanted at headquar-
ters instantly."
Toe imperative order, as well as the tone in
which it was given by the mounted orderly,
showed Elliott that an instant obedience was
required.
" You wilt oblidge me, Miss Bedford, by re-
turning to your room. Corporal Drill, you
will clean yourself and prepare to give an ac-
count of yourself. on my return. In the mean-
time, the whole guard will keep watch, and by
no means suffer any person either to enter or
leave the house during my absence."
Having given these orders rapidly, and in a
tone of impatience, he turned off and hastened
toward Gen. Howe's headquarters, wonderir g
what he could ha want" foir at that ko,,

64


THlE MlA~t-O'-W R3'-Mi 3N S G1 UDGII.              67

CHAPTER XXXIV.
THE DISCLOSURE.

Eleven was an eventful hour on that night.
The British General had spent the evening in
examining maps and charts, and preparing for
the movement determined for the next day. A
large number of transports and vessels of war
were ready to move and guard the troops ansd
munitions and stores, which the general
wished to do before a French squadron, even
then expected off the coast, could arrive with
additional men and arms for Washington. He
knew well that when the Americans were
strengthened by such an additional force, his
position, hemmed in in Philadelphia, and
blockaded by a squadron in the bay, or his re-
treat by water cut off, would be anything but
pleasant. And he knew the necessity of cele-.
rity in his movements.
Several members of his staff were with him,,
and various orders had been despatched during
the evening ; also several messages from dif
ferent .commands had been received.  The
general was about to dismiss his officers, and
retire to rest, when an officer, covered witti
dust, and evidently fatigued with rapid riding,
came in, and hardly using the ceremony to sa-
lute the general, banded him an open despatch.
The general s brow contracted as his eye
glanced over it, and his face, which first as-
sumed a look of surprise and astonishment,
reddened into'anger.
"George Washington never sleeps!" he mut-
tered. Then turning to the officer who had
borne the despatch, he asked :
"When did the heavy artillery move, of
which this note speaks ?''
"It commenced to move, we have learned
by an escaped prisoner, before daltght, sir."
"And this cespatch says that the enemy,
gathering in their light troops and outposts,
are moving toward the city."
"it is correct, sir !"
" When did they commence this move-
ment ?"
"Also at daylight, sir."
"Had they been previously making any pre-
parations, as if intending to attack us here ?'
"None, general."
"Then, by Heaven, Washington has been
informed of our intention to evacuate the city.
That heavy artillery has been moved so rapid-
ly, that is may be used on the river below, to
annoy our retreat, and he has advanced so that
he can enter the city in triumph, the moment
we leave it. Our whole plan of operations
must be changed. We must march through

New Jersey. But how could the news of my
intended movement have reached him? In no
way but by treason ! Where," he exclaimed,
angrily, as he turned toward his staff, "where
is Lieutenant Elliott ?"
"Gone to his quarters, general," replied
the officer.
"Despktch an orderly for him instantly, and
gallop to the officers of division and counter-
mand the marching and embarkation orders.
We will not move to-morrow !"
Pacing to and fro, chafing like an angry lion
in his den, Elliott found the general when he
arrived.
"So, sir !" cried the latter, "matters of im-
portance entrusted to your care, have again
reached the quarters of the enemy, even as
soon as they were divulged to our own
troops."
"I do not understaud you, general !  Surely
you do not mean that I am at fault '
' Did I not entrust  you tie ordering to-
gether of the Council o Officers?'
"You did, sir, and 1  t ey ed it. Whatever
the decision of your cou cil was, I know not--
all orders that came to me catae sealed, and
were so delivered,"
"Did you deliver them all in person ?"
"No, general. My servant. John Jones, a
very faithful and confidential young man, de-
livered a portion of them."
"Ah--he did! Where ,is he now ?'
"At my quarters, sir; if you wish, I will
order him to come into your presence."
"Stay here, sir--I 'will seni for him. Let
an orderly be despatched for this John Joi es,
at once."
Eliott felt the anger of the general very se-
verely, yet still more did be regret the mis
carriage of his attempted abduction of Cora
Bedford, for which he could in no manner ac-
count. He had seen the seamen leave the
house--a female was borne away by them To
this, both- his eyes and those of the corporal
testified. Who could she have been ? how
could Riley, ever before-so artistic and careful
in carrying out his plots of villany, be de-
ceived?
/ In a short time the orderly seat for Jones
returned with the information. that the valet
could not be found. Re, however, handed a
letter to Elliott, saying :
"Your corporal, sir, told inc that this letter,
directed to you,, air, was found on the young
man's table."
r=

J


68                      THE MAN 3 -WAR'S-MANS GRUDGE.
E iott seized the letter and opened it. The  bounced this old man Bedford, of whom no one
keen e, e of the general was fixed upon his but you speaks ill, as a rebel; why you wished
countenance, marking its rapid changes, as the  toquarter yourself in his house. with a guard.
tory ofiicer eal the 'otter.               And it appears that you had planned the ruin
 Damnation !" he muttered, regardless of of his daughter; was to have sent her to New
the presence in which he stood.             York. But this John Jones, alias Carone
" Wil, sir, what have you there? Does this Ormsley-by Mars, I like the girl's spunk-
cmfnftLii ol servant of yours, who is not forth- was too much for you, and through her, if you
eurning  uen he is scanted, impart any infor- yourself have not been the traitor, the Amen-
iaii aebien is imortant to the service?"  can commander has been informed of every
n:se I  - general, in a sarcastic tone.   order issued from  my hand. You are a dis-
This eore is on private matters, general,"  grace to the uniform you wear, sir; take it
rephi the olicer.                          off, return the commission you disgrace at
It at 1east forms you where this John  once, and never enter my presence again!'
Jon s can  b found, I presume. I am anxious  " General, forgive me ; but allow me to ex-
to seleAm !"                               plain."
le is left my service, general."        'Silence, sir; you can make no explana-
" Ah-a deserter? And yet your conftdcntial tins here !" thundered the general  Then,
servant? Sir, tis matter must be looked into ! turning to another officer, he said : "Captain
You have rendered me some important ser- Hurlbu, you will at once remove the guard
vices, sir, but on' error would blot the record from the House of Alderman Bedford, and at a
of theit all. I wish to see that note."    suitable hour apologise for my having, through
" (enrasl, it is, I assure you, on matters of false information, been induced to place a
a strictly p/i ate nature."                guard in his house. And request him, if in fu-
Allo nme to he the judge of that, young  ture he is at all annoyed, to reportinstantly to
man. If it is private, it will be as secure with- me, and I will punish the offenders severely.
in my breat as your own. I will trouble you  Also, tell the Commissary General to amply
fir the leter, sir, at once-your hesitation, at reimburse him for the expenses of supporting
le't, gives cause fir suspicion."        the guard."
T.- .flier dared not refuse, but he turned  "I will obey your orders with sincere plea-
iXh. landed the letter to the general. It sure, general," said the officer, glancing at El-
r, al rl .,.s                             liott with a look of contempt.
Vin-yi ar- foiled in your attempt. You   "Not gone yet?" cried the general. look-
+ =Ccu~i viii. free, and abducted Cora Bed- ing at Elliott, who stood as if riveted to the
f ri, thit ae nue it become  another of the many vic- floor.
t - oeer I e  t+ our vile lust. Whenyouarrivewith  '
ti. r  V  i +   Y.l. she will not be there to await  Starting, as if aroused from some horrid
.   + ~i-tr-e  rs. rimt one will be on your track  dream, with a muttered curse upon his lips,
l+ in r  lneveir to leaIve it until she is fully re- the villain left the apartment. When he had
L ."  f ,  r ." riw.  I desire not iourblack heart's
d--I  1   I no t.ken, that. You shall yet die got outside, and stood in the open air, his
.r-r1  I i.eeorsei among men, even as you are curses were loud as well as deep.
e rr a in it, mother if your child, the victim of your  "By high heaven I" he swore " I'll make
ar'.                     CARoLINE ORMSLEY."  him rue this public and disgraceful dismissal!
The rcieral read the note through, then   As to Cora Bedford-this night-"
ctmr'y refolded it and handed it back to El-  "She shall be safe from harm and insult
hot, who stood trembling like a culprit before from such a puppy as you are!" said a deep
him   ir a time be regarded the pallid face voice behind him. "I will see to that myself.
of the officer, who dared not raise his eyes, Men, not creatures of your will, shall replace
with a look which would have withered him   your guard! "
could he have met it  At last he spoke, and.  Elliott turned and beheld Captain Hurlbut,
his cold, icy lone fell like a death knell upon who had followed him closely, but whose steps,
the ambitious hopes of tie libertine.      in his anger, he had failed to hear, lie laid
"Lieutenant Eliott, that note, coupled with  his hand upon his sword, but quickly with-
some other circumstances, reveals to me your drew it and passed on, for a ranker coward at
complete character. I know now why you de- . heart never turned his back upon a foe.

THE MAN-O'-WAR S-MAN S GRUDGE.         69

CHAPTER XXXV.
THE SURPRISE AND CAPTURE.

I suppose the reader would like to take a
glance at "The Mary" and her crew. Well,
come aboard
As the .reader is aware, it was about the
mid hour of the night when sail was made
upon the gallant little craft. The wind blew
so fresh, and, as it generally is in the river,
blew so freshly withal, that the few hands had
to keep on deck during the night. Although
Barney knew the channel full as well, and
probably better, than Riley, the latter was
not aware of the fact, and.-consequently kept
his station aft by the helmsman, giving his
orders, and frequently taking a drop of comfort
from his capacious rum flask. When the gray
dawn of the morning came fogily out from
the caverns of night, the schooner bias well
down the river, but the wind was dying away,
and when the sun rose it bid fair to go down
altogether. Barney did not regret this much,
for hie was near the creek in which he intend-
ed to, secrete the schooner, but he regretted
more that a British frigate lav at anchor not
more than three or four miles below them,
and altogether too' near the creek to please
him.
Ae ihe schooner's sails began to flap i the
wind idly, and the wind to decrease, Riley
took another pull at his flask, and offered it
to Ba -iey, who was steering. The latter did
not refuse the proflered beverage..
"I reckon I'll go below and see how the
gal go's along. It's strange she hasn't made
any moise. Harry must have drugged her
heavy. He's a known' one for that; he had
a gal at my house once that slept three days
afore nhe knowed where she was, or what had
come of her."
"The villain " muttered Barney.
"Oh, he paid well-I'll always say that
of him," said Riley, starting to go into the
cabin.
"Stop !" said Barney, suddenly stepping be-
fore hi in, and beckoning to Jim Thompson to
take tie helm.
"W ny, what's up!" said Riley, angrily, at-
tempt'nrg to pass on.
" I mean," said Barney, giving him a shove
that ,sent him reeling against the taifrail,
"that I am master here, and that if you at-
tempt to enter that eahin without my permis-i
sion, I u pitch you overboard. I owe you-a
grudge for being employed by such a dirty
villain in such dirty work, but out of regard
to soma of your kind ways, if you'll behave

yourself, you shall have all the grub and grog
you want, and when I get ready I'll put you
ashore, or land you in Philadelphia after the
British have left."
"You're mighty considerate for a foremast
hand, you are" said Riley, in astonishment.
"Who the hell are you ?"
"Lieutenant Barney, of the Continental ser-
vice, at your command, Mr. Tom Riley, and
this is the flag that I sail under." said Barney,
drawing out a small American flag from his bo-
som; "and as soon as we're out of sight
of that cursed frigate, yonder, I intend to host
it on this my lawful prize. The crew all be-
long to my own good craft, the Sachem."
"Regularly taken in and done for," groaned
Riley. "Five hundred pounds gone- to the
devil! Who'd have thought Tom Riley was
such a d--d half-witted fool as to be done
this way ?"
The c edcvant landlord sat down on the edge
of the transom, and, heaving a deep sign, toou
a very long pull at his rum flask, then looked
at the frigate, looming up with her black sides
and   avy spars in ,e distance.
"Ii you'll pro 'se to take things easy,
make no signals, and behave .yourself lice a
man, I'll not confine you," said Barney ;
obtaIrwiseit will be necessary for me to put you
out of the way of troubling, or bringing
trouble upon me"
"I can't do nothin' but promise," said Riley,
sulkily. "You've got me,,and I can't help
myself," as the-rat said to the trap."
"And now," said Barney, "I11 go below
and see how the lady ic-perhaps she'd rather
see me than you. You brought her clothes
along, did you not, Thompson ?"
"If you mean them are things as you tossed
me from the chair, when you picked me up,
sir, they're in the state-room-I hove 'em in
there when you laid her'down."
"Then, if she has awakened from her stu-
por, she can dress," said Iarney, as he de-
scended into the cabin...
The negro Cato lay coiled up in front of the
state-room door, so close that it could not be
opened without arousing him wereehe asleep.
But this was not the case, for he half rose up
as Barney approached.
"Is the lady awake yet?" asked the officer.
"Me jest hear um stir, sah," said the negro.
Barney knocked against the door gently.
"I will make my appearance in a moment,"
said a voice from within.


70             THE MAN-O'-WAR S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

Barney started at the sound. It was a lady's
voice, but to his ear it did not sound like the
well  inemembered  tones of Miss Bedford.
Whatever his doubts were, they were speedily
solved by the appearance of the lady, who to
him was an utter stranger.
'You are not Mess Bedford!" he said, in
surprise.
"No, rir !'" she said, in a haughty tone, "and
you may tell y our master that Miss Bedford is
safe from his power."
"My master, madam? I own no master but
the Comnander.in chief of the forces of the
United States, trom w hom I hold my commis-
sion."            ,
What, sir ! Are you not a tool of Henr
Elliott s, employed to abduct Miss Bedford?"
"I am ro tool of hie, though I supposed
that 1 was rescuing Miss Bedford from his
power. I am her dearest friend. If she were
here she would be safe. But, my God, where
is she now ?"
"Safe, sir-fear notfor her. I left her lock-
ed up in a room in her lather's house, and not
knowing that she had a friend near him to foil
him in his infamous designs, I took her place,
and suffered myself to be abducted without
resistance, for I fear him not. He would rather
meet the foul fiend himself than to face Caro-
line Ormsley, for I have sworn to effect his
ruin, and I will accomplish my oath. Fear
not for your friend Miss Bedford. Elliott is,
probably, moving with the troops long before
this time, supposir'g that his scheme of ab-
duction has succeeded, and that he will find
his intended victim in New York. I had in-
tended to meet him there, and let him sup-
pose, till the last moment, that I was Mies
Bedford. But now you will sooner meet the
lady if you change your course. I can reach
New York ea-ily, and, under another guise,
carry out my intentions, for never will I rest
while he lives."
"Lady. I thank you sincerely for your no-
ble act and generous intentions, and Cora her-
self will thank you. While you are on board
this vessel, eveiy wish of yours shall be grati-
fied. I regret there is no female servant on
board to wait upon you."
"I have no need of any," she said, with a'
sad smile. "That faithful slave has been my
only servant for a long time," she added, as
she pointed to Cato, who showed at least a
six inch double row of ivory as he looked up
at her.
" Cap'n. I've an idea you'd better come on
deck," said Thompson, from above ; "we're
driftin' down to'rds the frigate uncomfortable
fast, and a boat is shoving' off from her:"
"Excuse me, lady," said Barney, bowing ;
"I must attend to my duty. Have no fears for
your safety, but for the present, please remain
below."
"I will do as you wish, sir," she replied, as
he hastened on deck.

When he got the-e, he found. as Thompseoi
said, that the schooner was. drifring "nncom-
fortable" near to the frigate. Tae wind had
died away, and a strong ebb tide was running
out  Tnu schooner was in easy gun shot of
the frigate, and nearing her every moment.
Beside, a boat had left her, and was pulling
toward the schooner.
Barney ins antly ordered thc sails lowered
and the anchor to be let go.  He then caused
the English flag to be hoisted at the usual
place, on the main topping lift.
Then turning to Riley, who sat looking at
the approaching boat with undisguised pleas-
ure, he asked :
"Have you any particular fondness for a
sudden death, Mr. Riley ?"
"Can't say that I have-'specially jest now,
when the prospect of them five hundred
pounds is se much better than it was a little
while ago," said Riley, with a sudden grin.
"Your prospect of short shrift and a sud-
den death is a great deal better," said Barney,
showing the butt of a pistol, and looking him
firmly in the eye.
"God ! Why, man, you would'nt murder
me ?"
"Listen to me, Tom Riley. I'am a man
who never lied-neither to my worst foe nor
my best friend. So help me God, if you diso-
bey me in one particular, I will blow your
brains out the moment you do it. Take com-
mend of this vessel now, as if we were all
Englishmen, and still your crew, as you sup-
posed when we started. When that boat
comes alongside, show the officer your pass,
and tell him your business, just as you would
have done, had nothing happened. If you
do that, you as well as ourselves are safe; if
you do not, you are a dead man."
"I'll do it," said Riley, turning a little pale,
for he saw death in Barney's eye-and then he
took a good long pull at his flask, to strength-
en his nerves.
In a few moments the boat was alongside.
Riley stood aft, assuming all the importance
of a skipper, while Barney was sufficiently
near to fulfil his threat if he saw the least
sign of treachery on his part.
"What vessel is this, and where bound P"
asked the English lieutenant, as he stepped on
board.
"The private schooner Mary, Captain Tom
Riley, of Philadelphia, with property of Lieut.
Elliott, aid to Gen. Howe, on board-also the
lieutenant's wife," said Riley, quite pompous-
ly.
"H Have you a pass Y" asked the officer, at
the same time glancing rather sharply at Bar-
ney.
The latter felt uneasy, for the face of the
officer seemed very familiar to him.
"Yes, sir-here's the pass. In course I
shouldn't sail without such a docyment-in
course not," said Riley, exhibiting the paper.

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN $ GRIJDGEII.                          71
the officer looked at it. then-glanced at Bar- could sink them in five minutes, and, with as
ry, in a manner which added much to the un- good a grace as he could, surrendered the
eesiness of the latter, and said :        vessel.
"The ass says nothing about Mrs. Elliott.  "This, I suppose, is one of your officers-he
Cm I see the lidy ?                       acted his part admirably," said the lieutenant,
I s'pose so," said Riley, trusting to Bar- motioning to Riley.
ney to get rim  out of tuis scrape. Address-  "As it happens, he is the only man on
ag the latter, he said :                  board who does not belong under my con-
.  Th.re, you Dick, Harry, or whatever your mand," said Barney. with a smile.
rime is, tell Mrs. Elliott that this officer wants  "He speaks the truth, your honor,' cried
t o see her "                             Riley, now no longer fearing Barney's pistol.
Barney was glad to have a chance to caution  "I ama true and loyal subject of King George,
her, and hastened to obey orders.         and that rebel there-"
- Who is that man-the one whom youtsent  ',Hold, sir!  You will keep a respectful
below ?-' asked the officer.              tongue in your head, or Ill show you how we
The eye of Barney, who was re-ascending  touch up his Majesty's loyal subjects at the
the companion ladder, followed by the lady, gangway. Lieutenant Barney, though my
was upon him-answered Riley, with well as- prisoner, is my friend," cried the officer, turn-
sumed carelessness:                       ing away from him.
'- On, a lubberly chap that I picked up in  "Are you truly Mrs Elliott, madam?" he
Philadelphia for this voyage."  '         asked again, in a respectful manner, address-
"lHe don t look very :ike a lubber," said the  ing Caroline, "or was you, like my gallant
officer, again glancing at Barney. Then bow- friend Barney, in disguise ?"
ing to the lady, he said, politely :        "I answered you once, and correctly, sir,"
'Have I the honor of addressing the wife she said, firmly.
cf Lieutenant Elliott, of his Majesty's ser-  "Then pardon me, madam. Every atten-
vice ?"                   -                tion due your rank and sex will be rendered
"You are addressing the mother of his to you. I feel confident that Lieutenant Bar-
child, sir," replied the lady, with a calmness ney has too much gallantry to intentionally se-
and dignity which would have implied to any  parate you from your husband."
one toat only as a wife could she be a mother.  "He did not kno w that I was on board, fir,
" Te I regret most smneerely, lady, to find until an hour or so ago-he knows nothing of
you in such company. Your husband would   me, and his conduct has been most respectful.
hardly have put you in charge of Lieutenant I only regret that he is a prisoner," replied the
B traey, of the Continental service." lady.
Barney istan-ly saw that he was known,    "He will soon have an opportunity to be en.
and put his hand upon a weapon.           changed, madam," said the lieutenant.
" It is useless to resist, sir. I knew you the  Under the direction of the prize officer, and
moment I came on board.   I honor you as a assisted by Barney's crew, whom the officer
brave man, but you are under the guns of our pledged hishonor should not be separated from
frigate, and it would be sheer madness to at- their beloved commander, the schooner's an-
tempt to escape. When we last met I was chor was weighed, and she was drifted and
your prisoner-I v as taken in the brig which swept close to the frigate, to which the lady
you boarded up the river, and exchanged and Barney were transferred, as was also his
af erwards. You treated me kindly then, sir, crew.
and I will not forget it now. I can almost  The commander of therfrigate, who was un-
say that I regret that the fate of war has der sailing orders for Philadelphia, and bore
thrown so brave and honorable a man into dispatches for General Howe, got under way
our bands."                               as soon as the tide changed, and stood up the
Barney knew, as the officer said, that it was river, not choosing to credit the report that
madness, and worse than useles, to offer re- the general had evacuated the city that morn-
sistance under the guns ofa vessel which ing.

I

{


72             THE MAN-O'-WAR S-MAN S GRUDGE.

CHAPTER XXXVI.
PAROLE     OF HONOR.
On the next morning after the events de-  "I do not deny that my own personal eon-
scribed in the last chapeter, the frigate Are- siderations and feelings prompt me to thank
thusa. that by which Barney was capturedlay the captain, and accept his offer at once. But
at anchor off the lower part of the city. Much  I owe a duty to my country. I am enlisted in
to the astonishment of Barney, who, from the a holy cause, to which I hive devoted my life
preparations he had seen, believed the report and my honor. This doubtless, will he a long
of the intended evacuation of the city true, and bloody war-very probably I shall perish
he found that tIe British army had not left, in it-but never will I Iurch ase either life or
the orders all having been countermanded.  comforts at the price of dishonor. I cannot
Early in the morning the supposed Mrs. El- accept his kind offer."
liott had, at her request, been seat on shore.  "But, my dear Barney, remember, when
and Riley had been discharged. But Barney  you told me the history of your love, how+
and his men, of course, were detained. He, anxiously you sought an opportunity to know
most especially, was a valuable prisoner, for if the lady was sa'e, and, if possible, to see
his daring deeds had already become widely  her!'
kro vi in the English service.              "It is true, Morley=-I would give all my
Cii, not in his rough seaman's guise, but hopes of fame and promotion for the next ten
in a genteel suit befitting his rank and posi- years to know that she was safe, and see her
tioi, lie was pacing to and fro on the lee side  for only an hour!"
oft h.. qurtter-deck, looking wistfully now and  "Then, if I get permission to go on shore,
then toward the distant shore. Where his with you under my charge for a few hours,
thoughts were, any reader that has ever been will you give me your parole for that time, and
in love cmn tell.r                                -u w   ,,e
The young lieutenant, whom we have al- return with me?"
ready described-the one who boarded " The   'Willingly, my noble friend-and you know
Mary' '-came from the cabin, and, advancing I would perish before I would dishonor such a
toward Barney, said .                      pledge!"
'My dear fellow, I have good news for     "I know it. Now may I just hint to the
you "                                     captain why you wish to go on shore? He is
"What is it, Morley?  It must be good to  a high minded and chivalrous man, engatied to
make you look so cheerful," said Barney, ex- a lady in New York himself, aid your~ eae, I
tending his hand to grasp that which was know, would touch his feelings and he w iit
proffered him.                            consent"
"The captain is perfectly willing to permit  "Reveal just as much as you think r1'er,
you to go on shore, or where you please, if my good Morley-Itrust all to yu,1'i
you will give your parole of honor not to   "Then fear not but that I wily si 'rel y,
serve against us until you are regularly ex- said the noble-hearted E-glishimaa go y.
changed."                                    And he did succeed, for .within an hour
A shadow of regret passed over the noble both  of them  were walking arm in-stm
face of the young officer-an expression of through the city, as friendly to manner as ii
pain rested on his countenance. After a mo- they never had drawn swords on opp. eio
meat's hesitation he said :               sides.

CHAPT.1I XXXVII.
A VISIT.
I know it is terribly impertinent to enter a "Corporal Drifl, indeed! Why, Miss Cora,
lady's chamber, especially when she is being I'd sooner make up to a natural born fool!"
dressed; but necessitas non habet legem, and,  "And yet you must have felt a shght ten-
under the circumstances, I can't help it  derness, Eliza, when you took the gag from
Cora Bedford was in her room, and Eliza his mouth and gave him the water and rum.
was making up the morning toilet at about You must have loved him  a little when you
the same hour when Barney was pacing the untied his hands, and tied them again in an
quarter-deck of the Arethusa. With herusual easier position !"
care, the talkative girl was combing the long, "I didn't love him a bit, Miss Cora. I don't
glossy hair of her lady, chattering away deny that I pitied him a little-I'd pity a born
mean while like a barber with the latest news, nigger if I saw him tied up that way. '
and a few extra fathoms of law, physic, poli- "Love and pity go hand-in-hand, Eliza.
ties and religion at his tongue's end.,   But, there-don't pull my hair so t"
Tne lady was rather pale, but did iot look  "Excuse me, Miss Cora-l was just thinkin'
quite so sad and careworn as she did before how tight I'd pull theta pes if I bad that mean
her last interview with Barney, and before the corporal to tie over aga ,, ai4 I forgot I had
niouse had been ridden of Elliott and his ins o- hold of your hair."  ,
1 t -guard.                                    *      *      * .    *    -*
lil wager a cent to a cookie, Miss Cora,  Robed in his searlet~ressing-gown, eo -
'   lanow who you're a thilsiug of thiS siderably paler and slightly less rotund than
"img," said Eliza, as she took a half hitch  when we saw him last, presiding at his dinner
au. double turn around her wrist with Miss table, and urging Barney to another glass of
Bed ford's long hair, while she combed the up- port, sat our old friend Bedford at the break-
pet Part of it.                           fast table. Opposite to him, pouring out bin
"Who do you think, Eliza ?" she asked, with coffee, sat his lovely daughter, dressed neatly.
a faint smile.                            in white, looking as fresh as a morning glory-
"Why, your hanisoaie Lieutena'nt Barney, with the dew just shaken off.
t. be sure! who else ?" replied the girl. " ' W hat a comfort  t is, Cora darling, to sit'
I suppose you think so, Eliza, because here and eat one's muffins hot at the table, like
your mind dwells continually with his rough- a Christian man and magistrate, instead of'
whiskered man-your Jim Thompson "     .   broth-ing it in a sick room like a dried-up
".1 don't deny that t feel some affectation. Frenchman, with a house full of drinking,
for him," relied Eliza, with a sigh which  swearing soldiers-not to dare to call yon-
would have brought a tear fromga fresh roll house your own, though you own every brick
of butter; "he's a proper, nice man. But in its walls and every tile on its roof. I don't-
there's some mystery in him and the lieutenant wonder that I've grown thin on it."
not keeping their promise about helping you  "Well, I hope it is af over now, and things
a'aav. But it has all turned out for the best." will be better still when the ErgJieh do evacu-
" So i appears, for me ; but I fear for himt
-for them, I mean. If he were yet near, and  ate the city, dear father."
rot ing had happened to him. I should have  "And better still when they evacuate the
ri-e sign or token. But hurry and prepare country altogether!'-said-the old gentleman
lot breakfast, my good girl. Father is get-  "Be careful, father-the walls have ear!"
. well enough to be impatient. and it is  "Well, all the ears inside of these wals
already past his usual breakfast hour now, my darling. belong mie o lves it iany
e                                      others come in here, I'dlike to have it in myll, said Miss Bedford.
- l never saw anybody' get well faster than power to nail them-to the pillory 1"
h is since that mean, nasty tory was drove  "Two officers wish to see Mr. and Miss Bed.
ut 'aid Eliza. "F"r my part, I never stall ford." said a servant.
ho  tie sig't of a soger again."            "Did they give tbeir. names?' asked Con,
-N t ttven poor Corpo'ral D4111 eh, EUza?" , rather startled at so early a eall.

THE MAN-O'- WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.


THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN S GRUDGE.

"eientements Morley and Barney," was the
reply--
Cora started so at the mention of the last
name, ihit she (coied the coffhe cup which
s'e hid ljt fill d  Her face, but now so
pushed, turned white as snow.
" B irney-Frney--it can't be your hero,
Cora. A -1 thmr u-ask them     up: never
mind the brakfist table-ask them up!" cried
b   A' l 'cr mitt.
The arva it oheyed, auml the next moment
Barny lnd a sttra'ne oeier entered the room,.
S Ctome to my arms, lad! come to my arms,
my brat e boy' exclnitmed the Alderman, rising
as 3aroey advanec,, aid embracing him with
a fervor which, considering his late illness,
was almost astonishmg.
As so n a he could extricate himself from
the erm h ace of the old gentleman, Barney
turned to C.ra, who had stood as she had
risen. cliangi.t. color as tapidly as sunlight
and shadows chae each other over the bosom
of a pretty lake in the fleecy summer-cloud
time-fir-u pale as a lily, then red as a moss
rose-aind, taliii her extended hand, pressed
it reg[ee flly to his hIis Ile then introduced,
as his !r- itd, Lieu erant Morley of the British
"I Ew :    this-ho  -this !" asked the
Aldtu  i n surp~ ; :teir the usual introduc-
tory ,o ilanef    d ien passed. ' Peace
ha "r,  i n  ueet trelh s rit ? how do I see
tot.     ,: :..tit ffit-er, on friendly terms
w ih t::e otthe oppoitei side ? or are you in
the c v we'tn a fa.  f'trace ?:'"
Tie oui  say    r irney to do was at onee
to fuly ' "   l t visit uation, and to relate all
tie l at ticil rs to tie late attempted abduc-
tion e. Iu Ti b.  I alone concealing, in the
preseie.- et t.e orfhicfi-lifcer, the vicinity of
B Ib rv er in. I+auchter listened with deep
inte t . c um r, e iail. abich, however, was
al rr av yiuvl rsitnclod h, the latter. When the
old t,-ut +"n   as formed of the generous
offer of the E thb commander to liberate
Barney on h' pir!h, he said
Why don r -ou accept it, my boy?  Ac
cept it and tu'e up our quarters here  Cora
wouldd he g hi to have you do so; wouldn't
you. larhmg
' Whatever pl ates you, dewr father, pleases
me. I have no alvicce to offer Mr. Barney on
the suhject. 11w own sense of duty and honor
should govern his actions."
" Thank you, Miss Cora; that sense of duty
impels me to declhte the offer. The fortunes
of war are as various and changeable as the
wind, as my recent adventure shows. I may
be re-captured-I may escape-and if so, shall
at once be at liberty to again draw my sword
in the cause of freedom. But on my parole I
should be doomed d to stand idly by and see my
ountrymen struggling. for success, and have

my hands bound, though not with a-shackle
upon them. I prefer to endure imprisonment
and take the chances which fortune may throw
in my way."
Cora did not speak while she listened to his
remarks, but her beautiful eyes told him that
she appreciated his noble and honorable sen-
timents.
" Well, at least you can stay to dinner," said
the Alderman, not at all liking the araumenta
which indicated the coming loss of Barney's
Company.
"If Mr Morley thinks it compatible with
his duty, I shall not object," said Barney.
"We have the whole day before us," said
the English officer, 'and I certainly shall not
mar its pleasure by hurrying Lieut. Barney
away from such agreeable company. I have
several friends in the army whom I wish to
see, and I will call on them."
"Oh, you must not leave us-you'must he,
one of our dinner party," said the Alderman.
" Water affording us so much pleasure in
bringing one friend to see us, it would be
really unkind, sir, not to give us a proper op-
portunity to thank you," said Cora, blushing
beneath the adrpiring but respectful gaze of
Morley.
"Many thanks, fair lady ; I will go for a
time, and return in season to partake of your
hospitality," said Morley. whose delicacy told
him that nothing would he more agreeable'to
Barn-y than a private interview with her
whom he loved.
" Capt Hurlhut presents his compliments,
and requests an interview with Mr. Bedlord'-
said a servant, entering at this moment.
' Let him come in at once Fine man, avery
fine man, Barney. All the red-coats a'e not
lise that scoundrel Elliott  Captain ITirlbut
kin d the guerd out of the house, and brought
me   eneral Howe's apologies for my 'curvy
treatment--yes, sir, his excellence's apologies.
It was kind of him-very kind ! You Eng-
lishmen, Mr. Morley, are beginning to carry
on war in a very genteel manner; sir--very
genteel!"
"I hope from my heart, sir, that this war
will soon be over," said the young officer,
warmly. "It seems so unnatural to fight
against those who speak the same language,
who were born with the same affinities, who.
are used to the same customs !"
"Yes, sir," said the Alderman; "it is very
like the most unpleasant of all quarrels--a
family quarrel. I've had eases brought up be-
fore me for my decision, before now, in which
relation complained against relation, air; and
I had one way of settling them, which I found
very efficacious, sir--very efficacious r"
"May I ask what it was, sir?"
"I fined both parties, sir, and admonished
then 1'        -
At this moment atain Buribut entered.
cm

Tbi1 M ~"a-WAl1 S-MA I''S GIITDGE

He w as introduced to Barney, but required
no introduction to Morley ; they were old
friends.
"I came to see you particularly, Mr. Bed-
ford,' said Huribut, after the introduction had
taken place, "to warn you to be on you- guard
against that villain Elliott. A short time since
-only a couple of hours-my duty led me to
the lower part of the city, and I saw the
wretch in company with several cut throat
looking -asals. tie was eunningly disguised,
but I snew the villain the moment I set my
eyes on him. We shall soon evacuate the city
with the army, and I shall not be able as now
to have a watch kept over your safety."
"Ill keep a suaderbuss for the rascal!"
said the alderman. "I'm getting strong now
-and if he hangs around afteryour army has
left, I'll have him arrested as a tory dog, sir,
and hung, if I can. Ah, captain, there were
three British institutions which have been
abolished in this country, which I admired
very much-very much, sir ; they were so ad-
mirably adapted to such fellows as that Elli-
ott. He was brought before me once in my
magisterial capacity, and I stated .then in
court, sir, my regret that I could only fine
him. But Barney had punished him already,
sir-,-had committed a justifiable assault and
battery on him. You remember it, don't you,
my lad?"
"Yes, sir," replied Barney-"not only be-
cause I inflicted a richly merited chastisement
on the villain, but because it was the occasion
of my introduction to-yourself and daughter."
As he spoke he glanced at Cora, with a look
which threw the rich blood up into her cheeks
up to her very temples.I
" May I asks Alderman, what those institu-1
tions were which you regretted had been abol-
ished?" asked Hurlbut
"The whipping-post, the ducking -stool and
the pillory, sair; Christian institutions, sir, in-
vented expressly for such seape-gallowsrascals
as;Elliott. Tnere are fellows, sir, who don't
care a rap for a fine or impriso ment ; but,
souse them under water, or give them forty,
save one, on the bare back, and you touch
their consciences, sir i"
"Is it probable that the army will move
from the city soon, air ?" asked Cora, timidly,

76

for she felt, mo' e than any other jinnoyed at
the vicinity of such a vile, unscrupulous vil-
lain as Elliott.
"We are under marching orders now, lady.
Probably to-morrow, or next day at the latest,
the column will move over into New Jersey.
His excellence the general has made no con-
cealment of his line of march, aid probably
we shall have a battle."
"Whatever may be its result-and I do not
deny that my wishes and prayers are on the
American side-I hope, sir, that you, who
have been so kind to us, will pass through it
unscathed," said Cora, in a tone of deep feel-
ing.
So. do I-so do I, sir. You are a gentle-
man, sir-one of my own school. I like you.
You must dine with us, sir, to-day- That ras-
cal Eiliott and his drunken guard made sad
havoc with my wine bin, but I have some
crusty old port left."
"I thank you from my heart, fair lady, and
you, kind sir, for youi good wishes and the
invitation. Were all rebels like you, I fear
that but little dependence could be placed on
our army--at least on the gentlemen in it. Un-
de' such temptations, I fear they would forget
their loyalty," and he bowed low to the love-
ly girl as he spoke.
"Don't flatter the girl, captain;" said the
Alderman; "I can't spare ber yet, and when
I do, I suppose that fellow Barney, there, will
take her under his wing. Oh, you needn't
blush so,-either of you!" And the Alderman
chuckled over the confusion which his off-
handed remark brought upon both of them.
"Envy is not a part of my nature, or I
should surely grudge the lieutenant so fair a
prize," said Morley, bound to have his oar in
the water. "But his lot carries out the poet's
thought-'none but the brave deserve the
fair.'"
Both officers (English) now rose, and, prom-
ising to return at dinner-time, left.
It would be rude and very uneourteous for
us, reader, to remain with Barney and his
lady love when we know that, both being
deeply in love, and wanting to tell each other
so, they would rather be alone ; so let us leave
them, and slide off somewhere else, and see
what our other characters are doing.

I'

i


THE MAN-O -WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.
THE TWO VILLAINS.

Tom Riley was not in very good humor
when he was set on shore Trom the Arethusa.
He had two causes to be put out-in fact three
of them. First, his trip and its consequent of
five hundred pounds in pocket was brought
to a sudden stop ; next, the vesselhaving been
taken from him by Barney and his crew, and
retaken by the boat from the Arethusa, was
now held as a lawful prize to the frigate ;
lastly, as the ministers sometimes say, he had
received more kicks than half-pence, more
curses than blessings, while aboard the vessel:
for men-o'-war's-men don't like landlords, ex-
cept when they are ashore on a spree, and
during the entire Revolution tories were des-
pised even by those on whose side they fought
or acted. This is a notorious fact.
Riley was ready for a growl the moment he
entered his house. He had his lips set for it,
and only wanted a glass or two of his rum to
set nim going.  In fact, the article which he
kept for his common run of customers would
have made a deacon growl just before a good
dinner.  But the individual whom he left in
charge when he started on his trip gave him
no time for an outburst, for as soon as he ert-
tered, that worthy, who was seated on a bar-
rel-head, and who evinced no surprise what-
ever at his unexpected appearance-in fact,
"One-sided Jack" was never known to evince
surprise at anything-jerked the stump of his
left arm toward the door of the inner room,
and said :
"There's a chap in there that's been goin'
on awful about you. You hadn't better go
in "
"Hadn't better go in, eh ?  If he was the
devil himself, I'd go in now! I never wanted
a fight so bad in my life ! Give me a pint mug
of that old brandy, you lop-sided curse!"
Jack squinted his one eye at Riley, grinned
all over one side of his face, and with his only
flipper drew the required liquor, which, though
it was fourth proof, being kept for his own
private use, Riley swallowed at a breath with-
out a wink. Then turning to the door, he
did not wait to open it according to his usual
custom, but kicked it open.
Dressed in a shabby suit, with a slouched
hat drawn down over his eyes, a cigar in his
mouth, and an empty glass before him, sat a
man whom Riley did not recognize.
"Who the h-1 are you, that's anxious for

a mues with Tom Riley ?" he cried, looking '
daggers through his one eye.
"Why, Tom, are you back? By Jove, I d
rather see you than a king !" cried the man,
springing to his feet. "Don't you know me,
man? Give me your hand !"
"Why, it can't be-no-yes, it is ! Is it
you, Master Harry ?" said Riley, scarcely be-
lieving the truth of vision in his one optic.
"Yes, it's me, Tom."
"And why don't you curse me-I've lost
your vessel!"
"D-n the vessels!"
"And the gal came ashore, too, as soon as
the frigate dropped her mud hook."
"The girl? why, you didn't carry her off !"
"Yes, but we did, though. I had her all
safe aboard, but the men I had turned out to
be d-d Yankees, under a chap that called
himself Lieutenant Barney. They took the
craft from us, and then, when we lay becalm-
ed under the guns of the Arethusa, she sent a
boat, and Barney had to give up."
"What kind of a looking girl was it that
you had on board ?" asked Elliott.
"Well, she was a little taller than common,
had a smart, saucy-lookin' face, and eyes as
black as a bottle, and twice as bright."
"Caroline Ormsley, by Jove ! her descrip-
tion to a dot !"
"Well, -we found her in bed in the very
room you told us to go to, and she never kick-
ed a kick nor squalled a squall when we. car-
ried her off."
"No-she had her own reasons for not re-
sisting. And you say she is on shore ?"
"Yes-came ashore with a crooked cub of
a nigger, afore I did."
"Then I must be on my guard. She is
more dangerous than fifty men, and she has
sworn to ruin me. She has well nigh done it
now."
"Why don't you split her wizzen, then?"
"I will, if ever I get her in my power
again."
"But why don't you wear your uniform?
What are you rigged out so shabby for?
That's the why I didn't know you."
"It's soo long a story to tell now. I've left
the king's service, and that girl is the cause
of it. And now I'll have revenge on both of
them. I'll humble the one and kill the other,
or die in trying it."

"I suppose I lose my five hundred pounds, that Cora Beaford is afelin my power., We
Master Harry ?"                           shall need your house as a place of ren ez-
"No, Tom, not if you'll be faithful and help vous."
me carry out my schemes.    I thought I     "Aye-and I'll be careful for all time to
couldn't count on you after you went away, come who I let in that I don't know. Here I
but I've got half a dozen as desperate devils had that Barney and one of his men for three
as ever cut a throat or borrowed a purse with- or four days, and was so bloody green that I
out the owner's leave, and they've sworn to didn't know him from a regular Liverpool
stick by me."                             wharf-rat-a foremast hand.  I'll sarve him
"So they will, Master Harry, as long as out yet, as sure as my name is Tom Riley.
money is to be made. I'm kind of honorable But, Master Harry, this is dry work. You
that far myself.                          Jack ! bring in a bottle of my particular, you
"Well,. I can count upon your assistance lop-sided, one-eyed lump of foul weather,
now."                                     you!"
" To be sure you can. I want to am them   The order was obeyed, and for the present
five hundred."                            we will leave the two unmitigated villains to
"Well, you shall have them the very hour concoct their plans, while we sail on.

CHAPTER XXXIX.
A SOCIAL DINNER.

In olden times, dinners-that is, ceremonial
ones--were far more substantial than they are
now. People met in those days to eat
and to drink ; now-a-days they meet to
pay compliments, utter sentiments, and
make long-winded speeches.  On this occa-
sion, in honor of his guest, Alderman Bed-
ford was determined that nothing should
be wanting. Wisely leaving Barney and Cora
to pass the forenoon by themselves, he gave
directions in all matters appertaining to the
banquet. Therefore it may be supposed that
when Morley and Hurlbut arrived at two
o'clpck, the dining hour-the one used to the
hard fare of a sea-going ship, the other to the
exigencies of a mess table in war time--they
were not at all displeased to find a table lite-
rally laden down with fish, flesh. fowl, and
their accompaniments.  Both officers noted
that the faces of both Cora and Barney were
beaming with joy, when the jolly voice of the
alderman summoned them from an inner par-
lor to take a seat at the table. They evident-
ly had enjoyed the morning-probabty had
settled all the future which was at their dis-
posal-for we know how thruthful is the
adage, "Man proposes, but God disposes."
"Fall to at once, gentlemen," said the Al-
derman.   "I'm a Christian man and a magis-
trate, but I leave the saying of 'grace' to the
parsons, whose trade it is. I never wait to
be fashionable. When I'm well, I eat because
it does me good and I like it ; when I'm sick,

I eat all I can to try and get better. Fall to,
Mr. Morley-and you, Captain Hlurlbut., We
can't expect much out of Barney and Cora,
there--but they'll have an appetite by-and-
bye. J can remember when I used to go hun-
gry ; it was when I went to see her mother at
first. I was afraid Lucy would think me pig-
gish, and I never ate a full meal at herFather's
house. But I got over that soon after we
were married-ha ! ha!   Lucy was a fine
girl-a noble woman ; knew to a turn how to
roast beef, and could serve up a salmon fit for
a prince. A fine girl was my Lucy. Cora is
just as she used to be." And the old Alder-
man heaved a deep sigh at the remembrance.
"Is there any news of the proposed move-
ment which it is riot wrong to impart to a
prisoner, Captain Hurlbut ?" asked Barney.
"There is news, my dear sir, which, con-
sidering your present position, must be anyy
thing but pleasant. The army will move to-
morrow or next day-as soon as the vessels
and transports have gone down the river. I
presume, from what I heard at headquarters,
that you and some few other prisoner's whom
we have will be sent around to New York in a
transport, under convoy, there to remain until
you are exchanged, which last I most cordial-
ly wish would soon happe, though I hope
we may never meet except as friends."
"I hope we may not, although if we do, I
beg you, spare not a blow in memory that we
have met before."

j'

.r+   +    -         .-

P

'THE MAN-O'-WARS'-MAN'S GRUDGE.

77

78

j


THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

"I might in ihemory of those in whose pres- whom he heartily detested, than anything
once we nave met," said the gallant officer, else.
glancing at Cora.                            At last the dinner was over and the cloth
Her face, which had paled at the thoughts removed. The gentlemen did not linger long
that filled her mind the moment before, now over theirwine. The most unpleasant portion
reddened slightly at this allusion, and she of the day for Barney was drawing near-it
said :                                     was the hour when he must part from the one
"It ever you should meet in battle, and my whom most on earth he cherished-when to a
memory could influence either or both of you, sense of honor and duty he must sacrifice the
gentlemen, you would turn aside and seek some tenderest feelings of his heart.
other foeman."                               It was in vain that he tried to'appear cheer-
"Should we ever meet, lady, I shall remem- ful as the hour of separation drew near, and,
her that wiesh," said Huribut.             like a criminal who recently caid, "if 1I must
"And I, most assuredly, 'added Barney.   be hung, do the thing quickly, and let's see the
Prey why am not I, who, or the same    end of it," he said, as he arose from the table :
profession, wil unfortunately be the most    "It is time that we returned to the Arethu-
likely to cross swords with my gallant friend  sa, is it not, Mr. Morley ?"
Barney, included in the general wish ?" asked "I regret that I am forced to say it is, hr.
Morley.                                    Barney. I am sincerely sorry that you wilinot
"You are, lieutenant-you are, most as- take your parole altogether, for Miss Bedford's
cured ly," said Cora.                      sake, if not for your own," replied the lieu-
"Well, as I'm only a Christian and a magis- tenant.
trate, I suppose there's no need of mentioning  "Were he to forget his duty and honor for
me in the matter," saidthe Aldermen ; "but my sake, Mr. Morley," said Cora, her bright
if I was in full power now, I'd bind you all face beaming brighter still with the light of
over to keep the peace.  But you don't eat, patriotism, "his company would not be so
gentlemen-dum vivimus vivamus, as they used  agreeable to me as it now is.",
to say when I was at my books.   I'm very    "If Washington were to send his ladies to
much in favor of eating.  I have noticed in  conquer our officers, I should more fear their
my magisterial capacity that the greatest ras- beauty and noble sentiments than the arms of
calls had, like Cassius, 'a lean and hungry  his soldiers," said Hurlbut.
look,' and of course it was because they didn't  "Perhaps all his majesty's officers are not
eat enough to keep them good-natured with  equally as chivalrous and gallant as yourself,
the world generally and themselves partieular- my dear captain," said Barney, with a laugh,
which I must aednowledge, was somewhat
Thus, alternately eating and joking-now  forced.
filling a guest's plate and then replenishing It is not pleasant to describe a painful part.-
his own-the worthy Alderman enjoyed the    ing ; suffice it to say that in a few moment
dinner, forgetting that he had been confined after, Cora was weeping in her room, the wo
to a sick room for some weeks. However, his thy Alderman was washing grief down with
early release from that could more justly have an extra bottle of wine, and Morley and Bar-
been attributed to the departure ei Elliott,, ney were on their way to the frigate.

SHE MAN-O'-WAR'8-MAN S GRUDGE.
^CHAPTEIPT.
AT SEA IN A TPEMP3SaT.-

The report-this time wan true in regard to
the evacuation of the city, although the British
gdnaeal had materially altered his plane. Tatie
was necessary for two reasons. As the season
advanced, Washington's forces, weakened by
the severe and inclement weather, now began
to recruit and strengthen, and it was pretty
certainly known that a heavy French squadron
was off the coast. His route now was laid
across New Jersey, over the eventful field of
Monmouth, where, on the twenty-eighth of
June, though not literally defeated, he was so
severely punished tha' he was glad to draw off
under cover of the night, and effect a rapid re-
treat, whine Washington and his forces slept
upon the battle field. But any of you can
read history-I'll.corn back to my story.
On the next morning after the dinner des-
cribed in the preceding chapter, Barney, with
his own men and ten or twelve other pris-
oners, was tran'erred from the frigate to the
armed transport schooner Cricket. The offi-
cers of the Arethusa, who had even in that
time become attached to him, parted with him
with regret. He was so youthful, so sincere,
yet so unostentatious in his patriotism, and his
courage was so well known, that men 'f cbiv-
airy and honor could not avoid liking him.
Morley, his captor and friend, became espe-
cially attached to him. But the parting words
were said, and the transfer was made.
Barney, on looking around him when he got
on board the Cricket, found that his comfort
was not increased, either in accommodations
or society, by his transfer from the Arethusa.{
The Cricket, though built fora fast sailor, was
quite overloaded. In addition to her fault crew
of tweaty men, she had a guard of twenty-five
marines on board to take care of the prisoners.
Her cabin accommodations were very poor,
She was commanded by a bull-headed, rum-
bloated man named Seraggs, who had been
turned out of the regular service, after he had
attained a lieutenancy, for drunkenness and
quarrelsome habits. As might be supposed,
tie was as near a brute as any two-legged talk-
ing animal could be. He was endurable only
when about half drunk, and it was seldom he
wa' so near sober as that.
His first officer, Mr. Marge, tried to imitate
his superior, as far as he could-te did so in
drunkenness and tyranny, butlacked the cour.
?g of   oraggs.  The other mate. Mr. Nims,
was a meek and hum le individual, who did
iot grumble at any extra duty put upon him

by the others, and who, to their infinite die-
gust, always put water in his grog. He was
a very good navigator, and eaved the other
two the trouble of keeping the vessel's reek-
oning. He was a very useful officer on board;
especially because both his superiors were
often too drunk to do duty. He never got
"over the bay," spiritually speaking.
The other occupant of the cabin, beside
Barney, was Lieutenant Sponge, of the Royal
Marines, who had especial charge of the ma-
rines. He was a "sea sojer" and nothing else.
If you want to know what one of them is, go
ask the first man-o-war's-man that you meet.
All these officers were on deck when Bar-
ney was brought alongside in the Arethusa's
boat. When he stepped on deck, acconpan-
ied by Morley, Barney at a glance took in
their respective characters. Morley at once
proceeded to-introduee Barney to Scraggs and
his officers, anA closed by hepinsr that they
would make his time as agreeable as they
could, for though a prisoner and an enemy,
they would find him very agreeable company,
and a gentleman.
"Gentleman or no gentleman, he's got to
rough it as wc do aboard the.Cricket I'' growl-
ed Seraggs.
"And we do rough itl" added Maggs. "No
grub except rusty pork and horse beef--no
lush except weak rum!"
"Bad cheese and no porter !" added Lieut.
Sponge.   "What are those things coming
aboard from your boat, Mr. Morley ?"
" Some wine, brandy, and other stores for
Lieut Barney," said tie officer.
" Oh,-we'll find plenty of roonito stow them.
in the cabin!" said the lieutenant, eyeing the
various articles as if he considered them al-
ready his own property.
"Aye, and in our read basketsI" growled
Seraggs.  "I suppose it'll be mess property
if the Yankee officer messes with us I'
"Certainly," said Barney, determined to
keep on friendly terms with all -parties, if he
'could.
Morley now took a very affectionate leave
of Barney, and shoved off, the other prisoners
being on board, and a general signal up for all
the vessels to weigh and stand down the river.
"That Leftenant is confounded sweet on
you, seem' that he's a king's officer, and you're
a rebel 1" growled Scragga to Barney, after
the Arethusa's boat had gone.
"Quite friendiy-as I hope you and I will

I

I

'78


I

TUE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN S. GRUDGE.

80

be after we Ve taken a little of my old brandy
together. ' rei lB:irne-,. - Suppose we go
eb.o' ao try some -
That s seisible-you must he a devilish
good fellow, if you are a d-d rebel. Do you
drink cater in your grog "
-N' rr !" replied Barney, who knew his
customer by that very question.
" Give me your fist, my hearty I" cried
Saraggs, holding out a hand which looked like
a boiled lobster covered with   barnacles.
" You're no milk sop. There's Nims, my
second mate, half-waters his grog.  He isn't
any manner of account. except he's very good
in navigatin'.  I don't bother with that non-
sense 14
"Well, sir. we'll go below and open a bottle
of that brandy-will you join us, Lieutenant
Sronge '"
"Yankee, I don't drink often," replied the
soldier, "but when I do, it's just about this
tune of day.'
"And 3 ou. Mr. Magga, will not you ioin
us P'
"If you've got rum, I will.  You needn't
asa Nirrs, there--be don't care for greg, no
way, and I've set him to work clearing up,
ready to getunder way," replied the first mate.
Toe four now went below, and when they
came up, some ten minutes alter, all hands,
r ecially Scraggs and Maggs, seemed to be in
r x,' int humor.
Tie brt'ze was tolerably stiff, and blowing
fairly Mown the river.  In the course of an
'or roorly every vessel wasunderway, stand-
ing down. making a very pretty show with
their snowy sails, moving along through the
nmootlh water like a graceful flock of swans
Deily lolen as she was, the Cricket not
rily lhbl xuay with all the rest, but forged
ahea i of omust of them. She was rigged with
a square foretopsail and tppgallant sail, and
carried t opmsst and lower stein' sails. She
tal silei under the American flag, out of
Baltimore, after the commencement of the
war, but was captured soon after, and had
l'en turn' I 'ver to the transport service.
Barnc', ' imen, with the other prisoners, were
eomnticed I"lw, a guard being placed at the
liatchwav t prevent their coming on deck
without piierusion.  There were, all told,
mioeteen rrsmere on board, beside himself.
Amd X\t, Ulariey, with the daring which ever
e'tara,'t"rzed hmni, determined, if there was
tin' souhtet opening, to attempt a recapture
cf the clonrer, although her crew, guard and
eer. miiered forty-nine men all of whom
re we armed. He had retained, unkno wn
. ,i E  me -rs of the Aretlhusa, and of course
'.'ie wI 1o tbose on boardlthe Trans1ort,ihe
rue2mil pair of pistols, and a k'en-bladed
Oagrr which he had provided himself with
beforee he entered into the service of Riey.
The weapons being small, were easily conceal-
ed, Tuey were, however, large enough to be

used with deadly effect, at close qu tr rs.
Each of the men who had been with iin o
board the  Mary," had been similarly provi-
ded; and, although he had not been a le to
communcate with them unobserved, he b' e1
they also had been able to keep their weapons
in their possession. If so, by their aid, i an
opportunity should offer, it was barely possi-
ble, though the chances were desperate against
so many well armed and watchful men, that
he might succeed in catching them at a disad-
vantage. But sailing in company with other
vessels, under convoy which would notice in
an instant any change in her course, or dis-
turbance on board, the thought seemed akin
to madness   Yet there are some men who
thrive best on difficulties, and who, though
they often fail in ordinary matters, always suc-
cceed in things which look impossible.
The vessels made good headway down the
river, and the day passed very agreeably, for
Barney was free with his stores, of which he for-
tunately had a good stock, and even Scragga,
brutal as he was, treated the "d-d Yansee"
with a great deal of kindness, in his way. So
did Sponge.   After getting so tight that he
could hardly stand straight, he turned out his
guard on the quarter-deck, and put them
through the manual, just to please Barney,
whom he declared to be a tip-top fellow. He
said he would have made afirst-rate royal ma-
rine, and regretted that he was a rebel.
It was night before the vessels cleared the
bay.   As tney sighted the open sea between
Henlopen and Cape May, they saw not that
which they had rather feared, a blockading
French squadron. But in a low blue bark of
clouds that lay in the northeast, they saw the
certainty of a head wind, and a very strong
prospect that it would be anything but one of
those "gentle zephyrs" which love-sick lads
and lasses talk about.
In preparation for this, many of the vessels
began to shorten sail, send down ligh spars,
etc. Perhaps this might have been done on
board the Cricket, had not the secondti mate,
Nims, suggested it  When he did so, Scraggs
d-d him for a white-livered milk sop, and swore
that if the Cricket couldn't carry her spars,
she should drag them.
Barney watched the weather with a great
deal of interest. In case of a heavy gale, the
Cricket right get separated from the rest of
the fleet, and that would add to his chances.
Sponge. as long as he had plenty to eat and
drink, didn't care whether a gale came on or
not--he had no watch to keep-nothing to do
with the working of the vessel.
By midnight the fleet was fairly at sea close'
haued on a wind, and, according to order,
pretty well together, as could be seen by the
lights here and there seen rising and falling on
the heaving waters. The gale had risen rapid-
ly. and seemed to increase every hour.  The
square sails of the Cricket had been taken in,

f
t^
a,
,
L
1!
1
lF
L
t
T1
1         4
I
1I
' Sf
t
.
,
'x
t
;


THE MAN-O'-WAR S-MAN'S GRUDGE

although Scraggs held on to them until she
almost buried herself in the head sea which
pitched in from the northeast. She was now
under her main sail, foresail and jib, and these,
without a reef, were evidently too much for
her.
" Hadn't I better take in a single reef, sir ?"
said Nimns to Scraggs, in a very humble man-
ner.
"Go to hell, you water-drinking lubber,
with your reefs.  Why, it don't blow hard
enough to take the fleas off from a Jamaica
niggers hide!' shouted Seragga. "Carry on
her till I tell you to take in a reef!"
"It is going to be rather a rough night,
captain," said Barney ; "suppose we take a
little more of that brandy t"
"It is a going' to blow a good whole sail
breeze, I s'pect-brandy won't hurt none to-
night !" said Scraggs, softening down.
"Won't you join us, Lieutenant Sponge ?"
asked Barney.
"I don't know but that I might with pro-
priety,'' replied Sponge; "it is seldoni that I
drink at night, but if I do, it is generally about
this time."
If it should come on to blow harder, and
you should need the services of any of my
men, Captain Scraggs, I am sure they could
be depended upon," said Barney.
"Aye-may be so-butI've got men enough
of my own ; d-d lazy beef-eating lubbers.
It takes me and Magge to knock the work out
of 'em.  Nims isn't of any account.  I never
knew a man 4tat watered his grog that was."
"Mr. Maggs, were going below to freshen
the nip, won't you join us ?" asked Barney, of
the last mentioned officer, who, with a pipe in
his mouth, was walking the deck.
"Don't care if I do," said Maggs, with a
pleasant growl, looking as kind as a big bull-
dog when you heave him a piece of meat.
"I'm like old Sponge there-I don't drink
often-that is, never except when I'm dry-and
if I do, it is'generally about this time !"
"Oh, you needn't be laughing at me, Maggs,
I haven't taken more than twenty nips to-day,
and I swear you're at least about half a dozen
a head of me !"
"Bless yoa, I ought to be-I've got more
stowage room below !" said Maggs, bringing
his huge paw down upon his abdomen with a
slap, as if to shake do on the contents and
make more room.
The party now went below, and Nims walk.
ed the deck alone.  Being alone he indulged
in a soliloquy. And it ran thus:
"Swig-swig!     There they go!  There's
nothing' ever softens Scraggs ormellows Maggs,
but rum. As water is to oil, so is rum to
them.   I oughtn't to grumble when they
drink-it makes the times easier for me.
While they're drinking' they aren't growlin'--
while they're pitehin' into the liquor they
forget to pitch into me. I wonder if ever I'll

get aboard of a better craft than this. The
craft is good enough-but Scragga is the devil,
and Maggs is his mate. I've Hearn tell that
there is a difference betwixt hell and purga-
tory. I guess the last craft I was in was pur-
gatory, for it was a little easier there than
here. Thunder how it blows. I'll wager a
pound of tobacco agin a quart o' rum, that
that foresail goes out of the bolt ropes afore
long."
At that moment, rip-rip went the sail,
tearing into ribbons in a moment.
"Tobaceojwins !" said Nims, coolly, as he
put his head down the companion way of the
cabin, and shouted-
"The foresail's blown away, Cap'n Scragge!"
"Let it go and be d-d !" growled Scraggs,
in a deep basso from below. "It's a pity you
didn't go with it !" added Maggs.
"If I had, there'd be more work for you!"
growled Nims, as he turned and admired the
ripping propensities of the gale, as it finished
up the foresail. "It saves work a reefin, or
a gettin' of it!"
The vessel was much relieved by the loss of
the foresail.' and made better weather of it
now, although she still had more canvas
than she ought to carry under the circum-
stance. But she was so deeply laden that she
did not heel to the wend as she would had she
been lighter, and "therefore seemed more able
to bear it.
For hour after hour, even after the watch
was changed, Nims paced the deck, stopping
occasionally to listen to the sounds of song
and shout and laughter that came up from
below, tokening the manner in which the oc-
cupants of the cabin were enjoying them-
selves.
"I'm a thinkin'," muttered Nims, ' that that
Yankee officer thinks he is keen, and can
drink them fellows drunk.  Wiy, he might
just as well try to fill a leaky cask, as to get
enough into Maggs or Seraugs.   And as to
the sojer-he soaks it in just like any other
Sponge!"
At last, however, the songs and laughter
grew more faint, and finally only an occa-
sional word came to his ear, and then it was
sure to ne aeeompaned by the clink of glasses.
It was nearly morning, and Nims began to
feel so weary that he thought of running the
risk of a cursing from Maggs, by asking him
to come on deck and relieve him, when, to his
utter astonishment, Barney came up from the
cabin, in a perfectly sober state,
"It is blowing very fresh, Mr. Nims," said
the latter, glancing to windward.
"Yes, sir, blown' great guns-it carried our
foresail clean out of the bolt ropes--didn't
have a yard of canvas to swear by. Isn't
-Mr. Maggs coming on deck soon, sir ?"
"I hardly think he will. I left him and
Captain Scraggs hugging each other very lov-
ingly under the tale."

83


"D    n him   here I-ve been on deck all   Barney took charge, and acesesflly per
ight"   saidrNitena     1                 forming the xnanouvre, soon had the schooer
Then he started, and actually turned pale at on the other tack. The escape was very close
his n ate' rity;for he never had dared to  however. As day dawned, they found that
d-en Mgg before on board, and he seemed  they had sagged down into a cove which
to fear him now, even though he was helpless- in. and had teen almost into the breakers 'et
"ly  g dru   e cn, foor. ? skfore they were discovered. But they were not
"Je sogeru oas drunk, I expect, osaidbut of dnger, although' now on a tack which
Barneyahg;a       buifevrhwsdwy from                            the more immediate
as j        ao   "but if ever he was drunk  peril  The-gale was very high. If it increas-
it was just about this time."               ed so that they could not carry sail it would
"Aniyet you're as sober as I am"           be utterly impossible for them to  k to
"Cer'ain-y, Mr.    ima--I never get intox- the bight into which they ad been set o the
icate'-"be                                                      he    adbengtb      h
And don't water your grog either? Well,  other vesurret.  Only two or three of the
that's strange."                            ey eres of the fet were ingsi- tced
Barney could have revealed a secret, in re-  earlerin t  far to wdward, havintacked
gard te the wa , in which he managed to drink  " Have you not a spare foresail, Mr Nim 9"
and still keep sober hut as it might have in.  asked Barney.  p-r
ducked ien to try the experiment, he did not "Yes, sir."
ofered vSer considatimeywa very weary, he   "Well, we ought to get it on her. If we do
offered, very considerately, to take charge of not carry on and drag the vessel out of this
the deeuk for him, ad let him go below to get cove we'll go ashore as sure as fate and if we
a little sleep. But Nimns was a good officer, do, no man could live five a  ae  n  ftog  eddw~rhsgo  eke  etrbekr.  minutes in those
though he lid water his grog; he knew better  breakers.'"  ol iv  iemnte       ntoe
than to entrust the care oh the vessel to a pri-  "That's true, sir; but I don't b
goner when d ahe othertfloers were helpless-  whole crew could bend and hoist the sail in
fyebrite v ad aueul'declined the of- Isuch a blow."
fer. IIx, Iloever, said he'd just step below  "My men can help vou--very one is bound
and mix a glass of grog.                    to work in such a crisis," said Barney.
Barny had heeu in hopes that he could in-  Nime looked at the cahiu  '    e-.
duce Ministo leave' ihe deck in his charge for  "I wish Scragga and M1g1  Wreabetob
a while for if tie had, he might easily have  on deck," he mutere(  aggs were able to be
released his nen, retaken the vessel, and by "But they are not, Mr. Nirns" said Barney
at'-rir her eursT, before daylight have got  "You are a good sailor, and will doBetner
Clear of ihe tI  i-t  To carry out that plan, be  without them."etter
tad gotl     etbcioficerbinthestatethey were  Nims was open to flattery. He rose a foot
in, bta Ni'i wkther he suspected him or  in his own estimation immediately, and Bar--
The., wayt, wisjustbeifoi tomd           ney rose at least a fattcm in his confidence.
The day was just beginning to dawn, when    "Well, you attend to gettingthfoealn
Barney. who was looking to leeward at the   her. Mr. Barney; [1  sa   at there," reien
"There are breakers on our ime.bedime. "Let Mr. Barney a men help the cresw
Nim.,"          aee               eam, Mr. wito that sail,'' e added, addressing theguard
" Breaers o the le bowl" shat the hatchway.g                       euad
"Breakers on the lee how!" shouted a man     In a few moments all the prisoners were
" Breakers ahead l"                       mixed with the crew, and e Tory one working
Socaos ahad wecried another voice,    as hard as possible in getting t'e new sail on
So close aboard were they that their dull, the vessel. Barney now saw thti   nvrh
heavy roar, louder than thunder, could be die-l h  a veael.  a  comisag that if ever ne
tinetly heard.                              ha chance it was coming but be could not
"Whnat had                              act at once. The ve-sel was in a position
"Wal' shall I do, sir? They're too drunk  which required every exertion, and the  hole
to call" said Nrs, his presence of mind ut- strength of the crew, to get her off the shore.
terly .forsaking him,                       H adn cacet cmunctehne-
"You must go about, sir, and that quickly' lons adiret dance to commune ate  s inten-
said Barney; "it breaks so far off on the Jer-  changed looks with Thompuson, abd shoed
sey coast that if we once get into the break-  him that he was still armed, and meant ome-
era we'll never get ashore."                thing   The seaman manag u to communicate
"I'm   frai she'll miss stays, it blows so  to him that he and the restserill had their wea-
hard, and there is such a tremendous head   pons, and were ready for action as cioon as he
" ' Then lower the peak of them -insailu  gave the order.
helm, and wear ther p      the mainsail, up   At last the sail was bent and set, and
helm, adwahethuhteglnt vessel strained and quiver-
"You take the deck, if you please, Mr. Bar- ed and groaned under the tremendo  pre
nd-fDo, sir-d ramnoti much used to a fore-  sail, she began to gain and move away from
the most imminent peril.

TIE MAN G'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

a4
t l
'mss
f3
t
fi
6
f
k
.X
5
t
i
t
a
y
t

f

THE MAN-O'WAR'S-MANS GRUDGE

84

85.

Nims was delighted, and would have done   son, and when Barney went aft erya one o
aNytin frw a  rne just then.               the prisoners was aware of what h  a  bu
anything  for Barney  j stth n             tfd
"I think I'll go below and take a nip, and  to do.  th                  e
see if the captain and mate are not going to  The first thingo-k a ich e did when he rat
wake up before long," said Barney, after the  aft, and v  t seaurcouple of  Nms Qf  the
k ws oer  "SallI ix glas or oustffandvey scurlytie Mr. Nis by the   ,
work was over. "u must need i after you galant hands and feet.- The helmsman saw this ope-
Mr.e im     o mkt eea"      ration, and at first seemed to think it was a
exe nMrBarney," replied the   very good joke, for such okes are often play-
"icerf;y ou tpma e , tM r . a           ed  on  board  ship.
"ft was    mke oriustat youo deck,      But when, a moment after, Barney drew a
Mr." it, instead of that drunken Sraggs or brace of pistols, and shouted " Forward there,
Mr. Nmy insteadded arne   ag he wentyouSachems-secure your men-the schoon-
bheowa  magg," added Barney, as he went eris ours" h1'  e '-moula have fled below, but
He appreciates me," cried the exultant Barney added; If you dare leave that helm,
eim. "PId almost turn rebel to sail under or alter the vessel's course one point, Illsend
such a man as that. It wouldn't be here, you a bullet through your brain."
duchaNmn s'd   ho that.- t would   b  e, u " Lord bless your honor, if that's what you
d---d m, M     iste r    ttithe tob- mean," cried the old tar, "there isn't a man of
'oblige me, Mister Nims, by settg oer o  us that won't be glad-of the change.  We've
gallant aail, and after your watch is over .oin"been bellied and abusied by old Scraggs till
"Here s your toddy, Mr. im, said Bar-  we've been tempted more than once to take
ne cin yupt this moment. "I thought the craft from     him. We would long ago,if
y, cmst be fati   d mie. you b     that fellow that's asleep on the transom had
yon must be fatigued, and mixed yours before  had any spirit in him. We didn't any of us
Thank you, Mr Barney, said ime, sal- understand navigation."
lowin the oiur w rneyhe  satty  it t   4" t  Wasthe general feeling of the crew,
lowing the liquor with the flattery without but little resistance was offered, except by the
Barney now   went below, and remained a   marines, who, to do them justice, are always
considerable length of time, long enough. in. loyal. These were overpowered, being unable
deed, to have mixed and drank several glasses torehon Of'Thompson, atwhich theefirsr ed, by ,
og.          u imtune-h art was full of the thought Barney. The vessel was ow in compete po -
that Barney appreciated his merits. The session ofBarney,who,essions secured all of the Eglihen
schooner was working    off shore steadily  deint secon         the  E   g  hm-
tho gh ul wl ,  nd he be an to fe l  er   c m -g d t r m ined  to  be  on  the  safe  side.  'h e  w ind,
.though slowly, and he begch     t rn tng   as the sun arose, began to lull a little, though
portable  Theliquor,whieery veigsmed to  it still niew very fresh; and ocasiona ly one
sohe ti m down, and when at last Barney   of the short,-heavy seas ever inidental to a
ground swell, would come aboard, deluging
Came o, dMeck, he yawned and said.:eeyhn               oeadat      u   on   omtra
"I feel as if a little nap of fifteen ortwenty  ever tfore and aft but doi  no maera
minutes wouldn't hurt me, Mr. arney. ll     h  g   Th    o   ner t   ly    headed
just lay own on the transom-bench a little  high enough on this tack our after the recap-
 nwhile, if you'll look out for the schooner. You  the land, and wah able to ed aher a little  o-
can call me if I'm needed, and 'specially if you ture, Barney s able Dedge her he  to-
hear tleir d -d Magge stirring.",           ward the Capes of the Delaware, for he knew
h     ere is no daeaner of his stirring for a  that long before than timp every armed vessel
w   Thle re i  B an ge   or            of  the  British  had  left  the  river,  and  he  deter-
ie was too sleepy to notice the smile   mined to surprise his friends in Philadelphia
which fited over Barney's face as he spoke-- by his reappearance.
in fact, that worthy had been growing sleepier  After he had altered ,his course, and eased
ever since he took the glass of grog Barney  off his sheets a little, he determined to have
had so kindly mixed for  dha. He could not sore amusement. To effect this he called
keep his eyes open any longer, and in less time Thompson aft." said he to the latter, " and
after he laid down than I take to write it, he ' Go below, said he   tae aterleand
was so fu4 asleep that the broadside of a sev- bring up the three officers. Tak$e a couple of
was sfon fatoasleep i this erod 't have  men with you, and bring one at a time. You'll
awakened him. It is doubtful if the trump of find no trouble with them, they're-dead drunk
Gabriel would have startled him. and asleep; beside that, they're tied hand and
Barney now moved about among the crew,
Bany         o   mvd"butaonhecew               The seaman obeyed the order, and in a few
giving an order here and there, 'withapparent  Thensea   was th     , as  a few
carelessne -a, but really signalizing his intend moments Scragge was brought up, as yet pr-
tions to hi own men. A. glance at the senti- feetly onconsciOlis.
nel, and toe rack where the marineskepttheir "Set him on the deck there, with his back
arms, was understood in a moment by  homp- against the transom, and put a lashing


THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.
to keep him upri ht. Then put one ofhe       b   , and I'll keelhaul you. Blast you,
others on each side of him, and set Nims on  ca'-",adIl    elalyu         ls
In a s ttle while there the arney-a.       His mouth, opened to its fullest tension just
and a pretty looie tr y wereallinarow   then, received afall quantityeofs twater,nd
.Take a ucke t and wash 'em down," said  He first   plutte  Bne, thenofaeen ta
Barney, who, with the crew, was almost burst- he was LasoedtatBarney, then feeling that
ing with laughter,                         left       t,looked at the individual on his
Thompson drew a bueketfull of water,and    eCapts               e   di   a    is
dashed it in the red face of Captain Scrae   'Ctone.aanSeraggs !" he said, in a dismal
Toe water alost seemed to sizzle as it struck  ',Mister Maggs ?" echoed th  .    .e
his luminous Countenance.                  dolefuecoedtye still.mat
" No--h g ber-d___ dou    eedolefully still.                        esipr      oe
growledScraggs,imagin'gyou, keep her full,"  "We're ma hell of a box," said the mate.
had come up  n the dinig that the vessel    "I bet we are," replied the other.
by a sea.n an been boarded                   "Where's Nims, d----n him      Where's
Another bucket came into his face.       Nims"   ay                   i "  jut
D-~,hatyufrabe-aigsnlg            n   ig  as usual to spring to his feet
a gun, why don't you keep her full? I'll at the sound of the bull's voiek
split your infernal bead-""Iyte                       iloe vtoiTe d.-dYne
Swash came anotherbucket in his face, has served bilboe     lke,"ogre.d SYange
throwing some of the water down his throat "Why don't you rouse thelgroled Seragp
as he opened his mouth. This partially awak- too?"      ydy sojerup
ened hm, and with half drunkenastonish   t   Dash went a couple of buets o   after to
and bewilderment he opened his eyes.       the face of Sponge o  ukt    fwtrit
."Give him another dash, Thompson" said   "Here's to KingGer.
Barney; "he wants the mist washed away."  the Yankees,"     Gore      iphp-"-
Tenext _bueketfull, filling both eyes and  Sa.swash  w en  cul mr dss
mouth, completely aroused him,b               "EysghWash went a couple more doses
"Bast yourteyes, what're you about there?"  unifor h   d ht ine ou, you'll spoil my
he shouted, struggling in vain to raise his a  r-',sour-Ugh___Stew-
hanghito wash away the blinding before him  wide, soldier, too,dhad his mouth opened too
Thn,   ecried:                            ie, justthen, and-he got an extra dose of
I tei' some bloody fine joke you're play-  around him, and for a moment contemplating
'n  mey ouhi d - dut ankee y"            their lugubrious face  hmoe n ske md:tng
i'Anything but a joke. CaptainWSeraggs,"       here's m  fe,he asked:      p
said Barney. at the same time taking the smatl  "Down beloywsergeantg on
American flag from his bosom to which we tions of fortune i     nating on the vailla-
have alluded before, and shaking it in the face  "I s'pose you thatime 'replied Barne.
of the astonished prisoner, and adding, "this you ?" growled  rnggsyoure smart, dn
is the hag which the Cricket will sail under yoRather !" replied Ba y   "a
rpidBre.hereafter."thn"
think?,,        ney.   What do you
"Youbdon't mean it. What a d-d jack-       "I think I'd like to h
ass I've een,"growled Scraggs, looking in as- now-d ln you."t  ave you where I am
tonishment at the companions who were bound   "What would ou do          -
on either side of him.                     you had me there     o, Captam Scraggs, if
ne    o mean it, Captain Scraggs," said Bar-  "D--n you, I'd keep you here forever, and
kick the face off of you, you infernal rebel."
Just douse Maggs and the sojer here a lit.  "Thompson, just cool the captain rebelit-
tle bit-wake 'enm up so that they can see  tie, he is holeri this morning     offalit-
fools they have been too " said  Swash went a bucket of wat          a'
Scraggs to Thompson, who stood before him  face, filling his mouth, which was roln ou
buce  hand.  t                        a volley of oaths, with brine almost as bitter
Brgeych nodded to him to comply with   as gall. Ma s opened his mouth to echo the
duktid, h laapiygitcaptain, and he got a dose that soon silenced
S ,rag- charitable wish, exemplifying, as it hssateyoTesoder       er       ilepte
did, the old adage, that 'misery loves com- his  otat ra  esodier, very wisely kt
panye" ueiswash--ashdash--went                  any of these visitations, he enjoyed the
afe washt ofwah-dash, d as fetDibuct scene. It was fun for him to see his old ty-
ly he began to growl int  aggs' face. Direct- rants, powerless and drenched t il  y-
" D --  ad  las              smbeddrowned         reed.until they re-
ly e egn t gow.                  embledwed       rats more than anything
how o   hand bleat your eyes, .be careful else.
how you heave water when you're wasbin'
down decks ! Do that again, you slab-sided  -re thaggnh saw hi laugh, and it roused m
Ir  hnhe had yet exhibited.mor

I

'
a
;
e
r
4
,

87

TElE IAN-G'-WARS'-MAN S GRUDGE.

I

"iNime, you infernal wbite-livered, grog- while you are in my power. I forgive you
watering, cat-eyed son of asea-cook, stop your  and Captain Sraggaboth, now,for you can'
grinning. D-n you, I'll pay you fo r this! harm me any more ar
Just wait till I m cast off once, I'llnot lDave a low"Nims, you're a brave, nohie, warmly fbl
bone in your body."                       low," said. Barney, grasping hi 9wrmyby
Nims turned pale and trembled.          the hand.
bDon't e afraid ot him, Mr. Nims," said "I'll try to prove myself one, sir!" said
Barne "he can't harm you now."         Nims, with emotion. ' You shall never regret
a' D-n him-I'll have him hung for letting  your kindness to me, sio!"
'i  the schooner re taken  when it was his  watch  Magga' face,  w ih hdbe  opl   u
o deckonrowled koregg . "I'tl have his' moment before, now turned red as fire.  His
n just as soo as I get clear!"            lips quivered-then great tears started from
huno you wontyou red-nosed old porpoise," his eyes, which perhaps had never wept be-
said Nims, growing bolder as he felt that he fore. He could have borne abuse, kicks and,
was under Barney's protection.  "I'll never blows from Nims, but this unmerited kimd-
was under yourncue agaoteeto. I'll ship in ness from one whom he had so maltreated,
the Continental service the very moment I'm opened flood gateswhcoteis        mgt
put ashore. Blast you and your king-I've have been sealed forever.   he     ered
served the one and been' abtseed by the other, "'e"Forgive me, Mr. ims," ebubrd
unt    ish the devil, your master, had you  'e treated you like a d-d rascal, and I
bth."w                                   deserve to be hung. If you'd have, had me,
You needn't wait till you get ashore Mr. up to the gangway, and given me twelve
ia, ytou enterthe Contii tal  e      -   ozen I wouldn't hve felt it o keen as them
ceie  y u  n w,  t dtosho w  bhow  muh  I trust  words  of yourn."
your truth to me, and devotion to the cause of I never asked mortal man to forgive me
liberty, I appoint you to keep guard over before, but I do now, Mr. Nims I" said Capt.
these prisoners." said Barney, cutting the Scraggs.Ydo1
ropes which confined iys, as he spoke.  If  I forgive you both-from my heart I do "
they are insolent to you. punish them."   said Nims, actually weeping.  "I'm not one
" Mr. Barney," said the poor fellow, as to bear malice."
tears started in his eyes, "God bless you.  "Then you'll please to give me a drink of
You are the only officer that has spoken a kind water?" moaned Sponge, who looked more
word to me fir years. I d die for you. Wher- dismal, if possible, than either of the rest.
ever you go, the only favor I ask is to let me " My head aches like a drum."
follow you and stand by you!"              " Certainly-and a drop of rum in it," said
"You're a pretty white-livered son of a Nims,"if Mr. Barney will permit it."
sea-cook to stand by any body, you whimper-  un "have no objection;' said Barney. "You
ins traitor!"ayelled M aggs.  .           may bring some rum up for all of them-
mims turned and looked at him for one mo- they'll need it to taper off on."
meon, at ifhe anwould rtaehim, up the nearest went  ims, now, with as ucjh ahierity as 'would
his better nature conquered and he said: characterize a good nurse when attending to
"Magge, you've cursed and abused and  - a sick patient, hastened to serve these men
" Mggs yu'v cuse an  ause an i- acha s ofenheapedabs and wrong
posed upon me from the first hour you saw  who had so otheaed atefnw.
me till now ! You've put extra duty on me upon him. And they were grateful.
-you ve robbed me-you've *wronged me in     Reader, there is something god in every-
every way you could I You've never spoken thing-in every one Ih etencsay. Allbr  it
a  kind  word  to  me  before  folks,  nor have  I euire  is  the  ad  cdrcumstrue t oat rinhere
ever heard that r on spoke a good word be- out. And if the old adage is true that "there
hind my ba k. Now, isn'tthsru"           are various ways of whipping the devil around
iYeba-d-n you, yes i"                  the stump" itis no lets true that byproper
"M es-im going to punish you now- management you can control, bend and soften
you heard what Mr. Barney told me to do if the most obduratereha acter.a n i a bor
you were insolent-I'm going to .punish you, ml something after the nature of a horse.
Magg   "                                           eSome dan be d gven, others can be oaed  e
The villain turned pale, desperate as he was, some seemed to be goodutemperedrem their
hut spoke not. He evidently expected such colhood,     th r vin       is f ar reti-
treatmntashe would hae inflicted had the Bu as a geneake ahn   ndess i," far mor
position of himself and Nima been reversed,  powerfulthnhesuorwi.       uttik
"I'm goin to punish you, Maggs, by saying  of that and "make a note n t " as mold
I'm sorry for youI" continued Nims, quietly.; friend Captain Cutte ued to say. it was safe,
"and telling you that helpless as you now   After be became stain of is   sfe,
are, I'd scorn to take advantage of yoo and Barney made the ituio  hida protners
though I'll see that you stand no chance  more comfortae,asltuil be remembered, the
of release, I'll not hurt a hair of your head  heir release,fr


88

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S.IAN'S GRUDGE.

crew of the schooner, and the mariners
outnumbered his men more than two to geara  "e, sir, I remember otveryd yw    u
"Will you do me one favorCapt.  on-        WlIfudom             yowerdopm
ikedl eraggs, as the vessel was ptarney?   there, and as you lied yoi~r irandiy strong, I
the   agyv                 standing into  strengthened it with that"
he Bay                                     "The devil! I see through it all!"
"With pleasure, sir, if I can with justice to  i"I was well you watered my grog," said
myself," replied Barney.                   Nims.
"I want to know, if you please, sir, how it  "I powdered your's too, Mr. Nims, but not
was that you managed to make us all so     quite so potently as theirs," said Barney, with
drunk, and keep sober yourself!" said Scraggs. a smile.
"Do you remember that I told you I had    Leaving the schooner dashing up the bay,
the toothache, and asked permission to look with the American flag flying at her gaff's
for some tincture of myrrh, in the medicine  end, and a fine breeze after her, we will close
chest?"                                    thie long chapter, and open another.
a-'
.a-

I

THE MAN-O'-WAR S-MAN'S GRUDGE

I remember once when I was in Charleston,
S. C., hearing a French gentleman" all of the
olden school," telling another where he had
passed the evening before. Said he :
"I was wiz one varee select companie. Zere
was Shack Miller, and Shon Shenkins and
Monsieur Delaplan and myself-Von varee se-
lect companie I"
The City Marshal, who was taking. a smil
with me at the French coffee-house on "the
bay," remarked, sotto voce, "Four more accom-
plished villians couldn't be raked up in the
city."
So, on the same principle, "a very select
company" was assembled in the back room of
Tom Riley's groggery, on the second night
after the city had been evacuatedby the Brit-
ish. Although it was scarcely yet midnight,
the front door, which was usually kept open
nearly all night, was carefully closed, as were
also the window blinds.
A large table was set in the room, and upon
it stood several bottles and glasses-and over
it also were strewed a variety of weapons.
There was the deadly and dastardly slung'shot
-the keen double edged Spanish dagger-the
three-cornered Italian stiletto-the heavy and
dangerous looking English sheath knife. Pis-
tols, too, of various kinds and sizes,were there.
And a rough, lawless looking set of despera-
does were the owners of these weapons Elli-
ott, still disguised, was there, a scowl of fiend
ish hate resting on his face. Tom Riley pre-
sided at the head of the table. "One-Sided
Jack" acted as steward, while the rest of the
company, seven in number, looked as if they
had been sent up from below, by the devil, to
perform some foul deed at his especial bidding.
They appeared to have come from all quarters
of the globe. One was a huge, repulsive loo t-
ong negro. A cut, reaching from his temple
clear down to his chin, had laid the flesh open,
and left a broad white scar. His great eyes
looked red, as if they were stained with blood,
and when he opened his mouth it looked more
like that of some carniverous animal than that
of a human being. His hair was grizzled, and
he boasted of being one of those fiendish
wretebes who, in a recent revolt in the West
India Islands, had butchered a large, number
of women, after perpetrating the most horrid
enoraities, having first slain their defenders.
He was one of Lhe few wh.' hid escaped the
tearful fate-of the others who had been burned
ahve--he having, after being wounded, fled to
the muntaiius, where he remain'-d until he had
an opportunity of joining a.pira-ieal vessel,

which ran into an unfrequented cove in search
of fresh water.
At the time which I take of introducing this
very setect company to the reader, this fero-
cious monster was relating, with the greatest
gusto, the 'fearful deeds in which he had par-
ioipated. And lhe charter of his auditors
may best be judged, when it is stated that they
listened with gusto to his horrid details, ap-
plauding as he described the struggles of beau-
tiful, despairing maidens in the power of
wretches like himself. Oh, God, how depraved
and heartless man can be ! Often I sicken in
describing his depravity, and yet never do I
overstep that which I know to have been.
"Fill up-fill up, hearties ! It'll soon be
time for us to be on the move !" cried Riley.
"Yes," said Elliott, draining a glass filled
to the brim with brandy, "and remember, boys,
a rich prize is before you-the old man has
lots of gold stowed away, and a large service
of silver plate !"
"I envy you 'the prize the most, oap'n !"
said the hideous negro; "that is, if she's as
han'some as you say she is !"
"Pretty ? There isn't a handsomer girl on
the continent-such a form, full and voluptu-
ous as that of Cleopatra-eyes large and I -
trous as those of a gazelle-lips like  aw-
berries bursting with ripeness-a skin softer
and fairer than the leaf of a fresh blown lily I"
Oti, how the red eyes of the coarse negro'
gloated as he listened to Elliott's impassioned
description.
" You'll remember your promise,cap'n!" he
said : " you'll remember your promise about
her!"
"Yes-yes-it will',just satisfy my revenge
after I've spurned her a ruined, debased crea-
ture from my feet. Yes, Domingo; you, you
shall ha e her;, and I only wish that her lover
could be chained down within eight of you, as
you clasp her, shrieking, to' your arms !"
"Fill up once more. and we'll be off !"
shouted Riley. "Here's to our noble cap'n !"
"Here's to the captain--here's, to the-eap-
tam!" cried all the rest.
Elliott arose and thanked them.
"Men!" said he, 'you have chosen me for
a leader, and you will fled . in me one who
never will flinch in any daring or damnable
work. It was not the want of money atat
made me seek you out and jon your band. I
had enough and more thin enough. I sought
revenge and ( will have it. Tots night I begins
the work. But while L seek revenge for my
own satis' nation, I do not"forge Gsour interest.

89

CHAPTER XLT.


I

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

There is plenty of gold and plate in the house
which we enter to-night. Of that I shall not
touch a single ounce for my own use !"
"Bravo, captain I" Hurrah for our noble
captain !"
"No,.I seek, as I said, revenge I" All I want
is the girl, and her I'll have, or die in the trial.
You have sworn to obey me--to follow my
leading 1"
"Yes, to hell's gates, if you'll take us
there 1" shouted the negro.
"I trust to you all. This night is but the
commencement of our work-after my hand
is once in, you'll see that, like the lion which
has once tasted human blood, there will be no
stay to my appetite. You shall revel ingold 1"
And beauty !" added the hideous black.
"And rum and tobacco shall be as plenty
as water in the river and chips in a ship-yard!"
added Riley.
"Now, my lads, I've said my say, arm and
we'll start,'' said Elliott, concluding, and swal-
lowing another glass of brandy.
Each one now assumed his weapons and ar-
ranged his disguise, and then Elliott imparted
his plan.
"I've secured one of the servants, by a
heavy bribe," he said, and the door will be
open to us. You know, Tom Riley, where the
old man sleeps. You take two of the men and

fix him. The strong chest is in his room. Do-
mingo and myself will get the girl. The other
four will stay and guard the door, and be
ready to cover our retreat. You'll remain
here, One-Sided Jack, ready to let us in with
plunder, and be sure to have the door of the
cellar vault open so that I can get the girl in
quickly if we are followed."
"All right, eap'n I I'll be on hand," said
the cripple.
"Do you all fully understand my plan ?"
asked Elliott.
"All-all!" was the reply.
"Then follow me, but go still and keep scat-
tering till we reach the house. And remember
if there is any resistance, use steel; don't fire
a pistol to alarm the neighborhood, if you
can help it."
The party now gathered in the outer room,
and, let out by the cripple, departed one by
one, from the door. After the last one had
gone, " One-Sided Jack" closed the door.
Then, from close under the eaves of tb'
house, where the shadow was dense, two per-
sons glided noiselessly out, and followed in the
rear of the gang of desperadoes.
The night was dark, for there was no moon,
and a strong south-easterly breeze swept a dark
and heavy mass of clouds in from sea-ward.

i

CHAPTER XLII.
A FRIGHT.

"Good-night!" Flow sweetthose two words
sound from dear lips, when you know that, Un-
like the sad farewell, it only meansau revoir
for a little time. When you expect, your self
refreshed by 'rialmy sleep, nature's sweet re-
storer," so 2n again to meet the beloved one,
more radiant more cheeriol than ever. How
sweet the god night kiss exchanged between
brother anu sister, between parent and child.
Ho w holy the blessing invoked from Heaven
when t+e aged lay their feebleh ands upon the
heads of tie young, and with that blessing and
prayer nid them  go to rest. Reader, always
p         say good night to teose whom you love before
you retire to slumber, for you know not that
you may wake to bid them good morning.
Never did Cora look more beautiful than
when she bent her lovely head to kiss her dear
father's brow, before she retired for the night.
11cr dark tresce, shining like the glossy down
from a raven's breast, mingled with his white
hairs, and her red lips touched his forehead,
like a red rose bowing on its stem to kiss a lily.
4         And her voice was full of melody as she ten-
derly said .
-Good night, my dear father."
"God bless thee, Cora, my darling," was his
response, as be pressed her light and grace-
ful form to his bosom. "May the good angels
guard thee !"
Then, accompanied by Eliza, she retired to
her chamber.
"I do not feel sleepy, yet it is time that I
b        retired," she said to Eliza, as she seated her-
self in the room.
I wonder where the poor lieutenant is
now ?" said Eliza. "Oh, how I did hate to see
him go."
"He is probably on the ocean now. And
the wind blows fearfully. Yet why should I
fear that the elements would harm him, when
man is more cruel ?"
'There's one comfort, Miss Co, a."
" What's that. Eliza." asked the mistress.
" He isn't alone in his trouble's ma'am. Jim
Thompson, bless his noble heart, told me the
night we tied the corporal, that he'd stick to
him till it blew great guns-and that means
always, for I don't believe that the wind will
ever blow great guns, or the rain rain pitch-
forks, though people do talk about such
things-f
4"Thompson is, 'indeed, a fine fellow, Eliza,

and very devoted to Mr. Barney, but, poor
fellow, he too is a prisoner, and cannot help
himself. We must have patience-they will
be released some time."
"Patience, Miss Cora! I thin we've been
tried hard enough.  It needed more patience
than ever Job had to get along when those sol-
diers were in the house. Patience is like good
fortune, it isn't every one that is blessed with
it, though, for my part, I believe I'm the most
patientest crea'ure on this sublunary spear.
You never see me get into tantrums, do you,
Miss Cora?-not even when      he chimney
smokes."
"Not often,my good Eliza--you are a kind,
even-tempered girl."
"I thought you'd say that of me, Miss Cora.
Shall I fix you for bed ?"
"Yes, if you like, Eliza, although I do not
feel sleepy."
"How sweet you do look, Miss Cora," said
Eliza, after she had finishedthe night toilet of
her beautiful mistress. Then she kissed her
lily hand, and, bidding her good night, departed
to her own room.
And Cora knelt down to pray. How beau-
tiful is prayer ! The kneeling of those who,
though weak, and frail, and mortal, are made
in His.image who is immortal. The looking
up from this earth, which, with all its beauties,
is still dark and sin laden, to the bright spirit
land where angels sing His praises for ever-
more ; looking up and feelieg that great above
all greatness, powerful above ail power,.bright
above all brightness, and good above all good-
ness, though tie e, yet le bends His benign
ear to the petitions of the humblest being who
kneels upon His footstool.
And Cora knelt in her white robes to pray
for herself and for those whom she loved. Like
a low gush of melody rolling on the breeze of
even from off the strings of an reolian harp did
her sweet whisperings fill that room.
Who beta fiend from hell itself could regard
her, in her spiritual beauty, in her parity, save
with hallowed thoughts, thoughts as near akin
to adoration as may be given to anything that
is earthly.
She has closed bher prayer-she rises-she
approaches her couch--she turns down the
snowy coverlets Hark ! She hears a footstep
-a stealthy one.. Her door opens-she turns
and beholds--Elliott, and a huge and hideous
negro!

K

THE MAN-O -WAR-S MAN-S GRUDGE.

91


THE MAN-O'- WAR'S-MAN S GRUDGE.

THE MAN-O'-WARS'-MAN S GRUDGE.

CHAPTER XLIII.
ELLIOTT FOILED AND KILLED.
It was nearly midnight when, undir only with a pleasant song. It will be unexpected,
her mainsail and jib, a schooner swept by the  and she will not know your voice."
wharves of the lower part of the city.  She  "I a  wholly at your service, sir-nothing
came swiftly, for the wind was fresh and fair. will delight me more than to please you."
When she had nearly reached Maraet street  "Welt, get your guitar in tune, while I go
wharf her jio was hauled down, and by the  on deck and have a boat lowered."
aid of her helm and her mainsail she flew  N ms proceeded to tune the guitar, and by
around quickly head to wind,             the way that his fingers ran over the strings
"Stand by the anchor," said a low voice it could be seen that he was no novice in its
aft.                                     management.
For a moment the vessel shot ahead right in  "The boat is all ready," said Barney, a few
the wind's eye.then her headway ceased, then moments later, as he entered the cabin.
she began to drop astern.                  "Shall we carry arms ?" asked Nims.
"Let go the anchor," said the same voice.  "I hardly know that it is zgeeessary," re-
The splash of the iron and the rattle of the  plied Barney. "On second thought," he con-
chain as it ran through the hawee-hole was tinted, "I think we had. It is late, and there
then heard, and soon the vessel was brought is no knowing who may be prowling around
up, and lay as motionless as a house upon the the streets, especially if the American army
land.  Her mainsail was lowered, and, with  has not yet entered the city."
the other sails furled, and then all was still on Barney now selected a couple of swords
board  It was the Cricket. Let us now enter which hung in the cabin, one for himself and
her cs bin,                               one for Nims.  He also handed the latter one
Barney and Nims were alone up in the cabin of his own pistols, p-tting its mate in his own
-the prisoners had long before gone to their belt.
berths.                                    "We'll take another toddy, to mellow your
"We'll take a light toddy as a night-cap, notes, and keep off the chill of the night air,
Mr. Nim, and turn in, I guess," said Barney. and then we'll go," said Barney.
"Thompson is trusty, and I reckon it is per-  "You can make mine a very little stronger
,fect'y safe to leave the deck in his charge. I this time, sir, if you please," said Nims.
want to be up early, so as to surprise the citi- The toddies were drank, and then the two
zens by firing a salute, and showing my prize moved out, got into the boat, and in a short
with the American flag hoisted over the Eag- time stood on the wharf
lish."                                      " You will remain here with the boat until
"Make mine weak, if you please, sir," said  I return, boys," said Barney to his boat's
Nims; "and you needn't po wder it this time."  crew.
"No danger, my dear fellow.  I trust you  "Ay, ay, sir," was the cheerful response, as
entirely now, and if you do not get ahead and their officer and his companion moved off.
receive rapid promotion in the service of your "Do you see that dark house-that large
adopted country it shall not be my fault."  one there ?" said Barney, as, after walking
"I shall try to deserve it."           some way up the street, he pointed out a build-
Barney now mixed a glass of grog for him- ing to his companion.-
self, and another for imms, making the latter  "Do you mean the one where there is a light,
weak, as requested.                      sir ?
"Whose guitar is that ?" asked Barney, as  i"Y.           T
he pointed to an instrument of that kind hang- "Yes-that is.it. The light is i her rom.
ing up in the after part of the cabin.   She is up yet. Perhaps she is thinking of me
Mine, sir," said Nims.               '-praying for me.  Were you ever in love,
Do you play or sing !" continued Barney. Nims ?"
" Both-a little.  I am very fond of it, but  "Yes, sir-once, and once only, I loved a
no one cared for music aboard here."     peerless flower, but another wears it on his
"What do you say to a serenade. "I can't breast now. I wrote a song about her.  I'll
sleep a wink to-night. Suppose we go ashore repeat it to you, but I never sing it now."
-I know a lady whom I would like to waken  "Do so, my dear fellow."

9

Nims heaved a deep sigh, and repeated the
following verses :
"There was a flower, the fairest one
That evermet my eye-
There was a stir, which seemed alone
To gem for me the sky-
There was a hope, to which I clung
Most fond and fervently-
There was aname, which on my tongue
Alone was melody.
"But ah ! that flower now is worn
Upon another's breast-
The hope is from my bosomtorn,
Which once that bosom blessed-
The star which once above me shone
Now lights my path no more-
I dare not cherish as my own
The name I did of yore.
"Vet in the morning, and at eve,
The star-the flower-the name--
And hope arecherished-which I grieve.
Are present like the Slame
, Which on the holy altar burns,
Forever, night and day ;
And as to it the Christian turns,
So I to them, and pray.
"Pray that the flower may never fade--
The star may never set-
N cloud the floweret ever shade,
No tear its bright cheek wet;
And though I may slot breathe the name,
And hope's bright dream is er.
A place ini memory 'twill claim
Until I breathe no more,
They had now almost arrived at the house,
when a shriek-a wild, shrill shriek, that
pierced their very hearts-came ringing'on the
air.
"My God, 'tis from her'ihanber ! Draw,
Nims, if you are a man, and follow        me"
shouted Barney, as he bounded forward. The
door of the house was open, and armed men
were there, as Barney sprung to ward it, but
they were already engaged. Two shots were
fired as Barney rushed up the steps, and he
saw a sword flashing in the hands of one who
sought to enter. In a moment that one would
have fallen by his hand, but by the'fashof a
pistol he recognised Caroline Ormsley,. even
though she was in male attire.
"You here, Miss Ormsley 1" he exclaimed,
as he drove his sword through the man who
opposed her.
"On, Barney! on, and save her you love !
Elliott is up stairs I" she cried, as she fell back,
wounded, into the arms of Nims, who was
close behind him.
Shriek after shriek reached Barney-s ago-
nized ear. . Pushing aside with his naked left
arm a murderous blow which was aimed at
his heart, he clove another opposer down, and
rushed up the stairs.
Wild was his shout as hd sprang through
the open door of Cora's chamber, and saw the
poor, girl, with torn dress and dishevelled 'hair,
madly struggling in the arms of Elliott and
the fiendish negro, who were striving to bind
and gag her.
The negro turned as he heard that shout,
and his red eyes glared like balls of fire as he
drew   his knife and rushed toward Barney.
But he had looked his last look' A ball from
Barney's pistol crashed through his'brain, and

with a fearful howl he sank at Barney's feet
ere he could reach him.
Elliott dropped his intended victim, and,
drawing his sword, sprang witiafrenzied yell
of hate to ward Barney. The latter, eager to
meet him, rushed forward ; but the negro,
in his dying agony, caught him by the
foot, and he fell headlong to the floor. At that
instant the report of a blunderbuss below fair-
ly shook the house ; but it did not drown the
yell of triumph which rose from Elliott's lips
as he raised his sword to strike a death-blow
home to the heart of his defenseless foe.
But a flash, a ringing shot, and his upraised
arm fell powerless at his side.
"That shot.was mine, Henry Elliott-mine
mine! I am revenged !" shrieked Caroline
Ormsley, as she staggered forward and fell
down at his feet. With glaring eyes he look-
ed at her one instant, then pressed his hand
to his heart, through which the ball had pass-
ed, and fell dead at her side, without uttering a
word. Her life-blood was mingling with his.
In an instant Barney was on his feet ; the
next moment he was by the side of Cora, and
-had raised her in his arms.
"Saved-:saved-thankGod !" she murmur-
ed, and fainted in his arms.
"Mc' daughter-my daughter-where is
Cora?' shouted the Alderman, rushinglinto the
room in his night-clothes, carrying in his hand
by the barrel a blunderbuss, the shattered and
bloody butt of which told that he had not
been idle.
"She is safe. Are you hurt, sir?" cried
Barney ; "you are bleeding"
"Only a scratch, my boy. There were two
of 'em, but I did 'em both-d----u 'em, I did
'em both-the Lord forgive me for s wearing.
How in Heaven's name did you get here in
this very nick of time? Why, that's Elliott on
'the floor-dead, eh ?-saved the hangman a
job. And a big nigger-bah I And a young lad
--a handsome one ; what could have brought
him here? All dead 1"
"Father, are you safe ?" asked Cora, faintly,
recovering partially.
-  Yes, my chick; and Barney's safe, and
you're safe, "and I don't care if all the rest of
the world is dead-d-----d if I do ! Good
Lord, forgive me for swearing, but I'm so
happy !"
The old Alderman now embraced both Bar-
ney and his daughter, at one moment laugh-
ing and the next crying.
Barney disengaged himself, for he now be-
thought himself of Nims ; but at that moment
he entered, his sword red with blood, and a
bad gash in his cheek.
"They're are all gone, or down, sir," he said.
I "One got away, but I couldn't help it-I
marked him"
"Bravo. Nims ! hereafter you are a brother
to me," cried Barney.

92

98


94                     THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.
At this moment the poor crippled negro    looked down into her pale face. He said no
Cato crept into the room.                  word, hut great tears like melted pearls chased
"Thank him-be fought like a devil I" said  each other down his sable face. At that in-
Nims.                                      stant, pale and terrified into utter speechless-
"Poor fellow," said Barney, "his mistress  ness, Eliza rushed into the room.
is dead ; her last act was to save my life."  Reader, the tableau for this chapter is per
Tne poor negro, who was himself badly    feet. Look upon it, and we will drop the
wounded, crept to the side of his mistress and  curtain.

CHAPTER XLIV'

It was a few days later. In that house
wherein such a fearful scene of bloodshed os-
curred as was described in the last chayter, a
joyous party was assembled, composed en-
tirely of those with whom the readers have
already become familiar, and for whom, I
hope, they have nourished some friendly feel-
ing.   ..                     e
It was in thelarge old dining hail that the
party was assembled, and it consisted of the
old Alderman, Barney and his, betrothed,
Nims, in a new American uniform, Eliza, the
faithful maid of Cora, and last, but not least,
honest, brave, faithful Jim Thompson.
The Aldermanwas in his glory. Seated in
his favorite arm-chair, he held a brimming
goblet in his hand, and drank "Joy, happi-
ness, to all around him.
"Barney," he cred, "you deserve my
Cora; take tier, God bless you, and make her
agood buband, the has been anaffectionate,
good daughter, and I know she'll make you a
loving wife."
"I am sure she will, and I will try to de-
serve her !" said Barney, as he pressed her
dear hand to his manly lips.
"And, Thompson, I suppose you'll get
spliced, as you sailors say, to Eliza there.
Well, I-ll do the job for you for nothing."
" I'd like that very well, your honor," 'said
Thompson, looking at Eliza, who sat blushing
like a peony-'I'd like it very well, for Miss
Eliza is built like a clipper, and I've no doubt
wo'ild sail like one over the sea of married
life ; but I've got neven little reasons, and one
big one, why her and me can't be spliced."
" What are they?" asked tae Alderman,
while Eliza turned pale, and looked as if she
was about to faint.
"Why, your honor, if the truth must be
told, I've got a fat wife and seven children
now, and it wouldn't be exactly right for

to take a nice al like Miss Eliza in tow afore
t'other one had slipped her cable."
Eliza looked as if she would indeed faint
now, but Barney brought the blushes back to
her cpeek, and perhaps hope to her heart once
more, as he said:
"There's my noble friend Nims in want of
a wife, Eliza--you shall not go husbandless. I
know that he has a good heart, and will make
a first-rate husband."
"I'd try to, if only to please you, my kind
benefactor," said Nims ; "that is, if the lady
has no objection."
"I'm afraid Miss Cora can't spare me," said
Eliza, smiling through her tears and blushes.
"Oh, yes, in such a case, Eliza," said those
joyous Cora, "and wish you many years of
unalloyed happiness."
Eliza thought at once that a single officer
was a better match than a married seaman, and
when Nims took hold of her hand, she did not
withdraw it.
A few days later still, and Jim Thompson,
as a special friend and favorite, was allowed
to dance at a double wedding.
And now, reader, my tale is one. The
name of Barney belongs to history ; it is a
proud relic of his country. His after deeds
upon the water, his heroic conduct at Bladens-
burg are recorded in letters of glory which
the hand of time, unsparing as it is, can never
efface while the name of one hero of the Revo-
lution is remembered. From his marriage
with the fair daughter of Alderman Bedford,
sprang some of the best stock which now ex-
ists in this city and that of Baltimore. His
honored name, borne by a descendant, still
graces our naval register; and if the ancient
grudge is again to be worked up between us
and the old country, I doubt not but that the
blood will be found as good as ever.

3
f
.  U
V

A description of one scene, and I have fin-
ished. It was the first day of December, 1818.
Where the rapid Monongahela rushes impet-
uously into the virgin embrace of the silvery
Alleghany, and, united as 'two hearts in one,"
they under the beautiful name of Ohio roll off
toward the fathomless ocean, a Christian and
a hero lay upon his death bed. The cold win-
ter winds were sweeping over the rushing
waters and snow-flakes filled the air ; but hot
tears were gushing out from fond eyes upon
his bosom, and kind words from dear lips were
cheering up his spirit as it plumed its wbite
wings for departure to a better world.
"Cora-dear Cora," muttered the dying
man. "you have been a blessed angel to me,
through life ; weep not at my departure-you
will soon follow me. Bring up our children
in the path which I have trod ; tell themto be
true to their country and their God. I've play-
ed with death many a time, my love-have
slipped out of his grasp very often; he has an
old grudge against me, and mist take it out."
He died, beloved by all who knew him-re-
speeted even by his foes.
Itmay appear vain in the author to append

the following statement, but if so he cannot
help it for it is one of the few occurrencessin
his life that he is proud of.
In 1844, just after retiring by voluntary re-
signation from the navy, he started a literary
magazine in Pittsburg, Pennsylvania. On one
occasion, during the spring of that year, while
walking through the old graveyard of the
---church of thatcity, he stumbled over a
broken and sunken slab of marble, half cover-
ed with the grass which had atready grown
up rank above it. Upon looking at the in-
scription on the stone, he found that it rested
over the remains of Commodore Joshua Bar-
ney. Instantly publishing a notice of the ne-
glected state of the grave, and also writing a
biography of the hero, he called public atten-
tion to the matter, and did not rest until those
revered remains were removed to the City
Cemetery, and a monument worthy of the city
of his burial placed over him.
And now, dear readrs--you.who have had
the patience to follow me through this long
story-farewell. I hope, though I am an old
man-o-war'si-ian,you will not hold any grudge
against me.

TUE Iy.

THE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

l


                                                 
             
         
       
   
