
    ----CITATION----
        Jones, Cornelia.. Heavenward Led, or, The Two Bequests .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6910
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Heavenward led, or, The two bequests
             
                 HEAVENWARD LED : OR,  BY JANE R. SOMMERS. A. "The Sun of Righteousness radiates only beams of Heavenly Love; and man should be simply a reflector of that sacred Light." PHLADELPHA: PORTER & COATES, 822 CHESTNUT STREET.     Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by PORTER & COATES, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C.  MEARS & DUSENBERY, 8TEREOTYERS.         SHERMAN & o0., PRINTERS.  SHERAN &CO  .,PRITE..    CONTENTS. CHAPTER FIRST. PAGE Father's Come!      .  .  .  .  .  7 CHAPTER .SECOND. The Ashtons of Old; and Captain Richard's ante- cedents .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 62 CHAPTER THRD. Ellen Ashton and her Mother's Bequest . . . 83 CHAPTER FOURTH. The Aunts, and their Bequest to Isabella . . 102 CHAPTER FIFTH. Baden-Baden   .  .  .          135 1*                  (v)     vi         CONTENTS. CHAPTER SIXTH. PAGE Second Day at Ashton Park .   .     .1" CHAPTER SEVENTH. Ellen and Charlie . .  .  .  .  .  . 217 CHAPTER EIGHTH. The Ashtons in Society . .  .  .  .  . 258 CHAPTER NINTH. After the Party .  .  .  .  .  .  .299 CHAPTER TENTH. An Unexpected Meeting .           . 344 CHAPTER ELEVENTH. The Duel  .  .  .  .           443 CHAPTER TWELFTH.  Conclusion-Health and Happiness to All  .  483   HEAVENWARD LED; OR,  CHAPTER FIRST. FATHER'S COME I GRACIOUS powers! Child, how you fret and vex me with your idle dawdling! You must consume oceans of time and money on yonder trifling tinselwork. In such an es- tablishment as this one would think your needle and shears might keep you fully occupied, and they would be much more seemly implements in the hands of a girl of your age than all that rubbish of paints and brushes you have piled around you. If you would look carefully into the daily house- hold accounts, which be sure you bring me to-night (7) k     8     I:HEA VENWARD LED; OR, to look over, you might possibly be convinced of the selfish extravagance which the indulgence of your childish fancies leads you into. I can't afford anything of the sort. You must surely see that I am utterly broken in health and fortune, as wed as jaded by incessant mental toil. Ah! but foreyour noble sister what would become of me? Make her your model, and you'll soon learn to value and im- prove your time, as well as to spend your fortune properly when you receive it-not squandering, but expending it with unselfish munificence upon others. The money came into good hands, when left by those foolish old women to Isabella. Had you been their heir, I fear it would have done but little good to your- self or others-probably been spent in fixing up some great baby-house somewhere." Thus, with brows contracted and in querulous tones, fumed Captain Richard Ashton, the father who, after an absence of fully two years, had been welcomed joy- fully home, scarcely twenty-four hours since, by his lonely, motherless children, whom he had left with the old servants immediately after his wife's death. And the ancestral halls at Ashton Park had resounded with their glad young voices, as they proclaimed aloud the happy tidings-"Father's come! Father's come!!" while all day their young hearts had been fluttering   THE TWO BEQUESTS.        9 with joyous excitement over the arrival of their now only remaining parent, loved and honored, though al- most a stranger in his own home. The grand old man- sion stood just beyond theI limits of the large and rapidly growing city of B --, which was spreading out year by year nearer and nearer to "The Park " enclosures. And from the above tirade the reader has perhaps con- cluded that Captain Ashton, its proprietor, although evidently not the tenderest of parents, nor much in- clined to the over-indulgence of youthful tastes and fan- cies, must at least be a model of propriety and of rigid justice and accuracy. Unfortunately for these con- clusions, however, our daily experience of actual life is apt to show us the proneness rather of men to be most exacting with others in regard to those matters where they themselves are most deficient, as if they would thus atone for their own shortcomings. Ellen Ashton, the sweet young daughter thus sternly addressed, was seated in the deep window recess, where, partially screened from view by curtains of once costly crimson damask, now almost too faded and tarnished to cast a becoming glow upon neighbor- ing objects, she had been engaged during the after- noon with her pretty fancy work, executed with exquisite taste and skill; while, at the same time, she kept loving watch over her newly-returned father,     10     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, supposing, until he spoke, that he was still sleeping off the fatigue of his recent journey. At the sound of his voice she started with surprise, and became grave and thoughtful as he proceeded through his long reproof; when he had finished, however, she rose, and takintg from the table before her a little painting, in a pretty rustic frame, while the delicate flush in her cheek gave place to a warm, modest blush, mounting rapidly from her throat to her clear blue-veined temples, smilingly approached the long, high-backed, brass-studded, old-fashioned sofa, on which, stretched at full length, along one side of the wide fire-place, was lying her father, with an open pamphlet in his hand. "Father," she said, as with one hand she held the picture before him, and with the other arranged more carefully about his shoulders the richly colored af- ghan, her own handiwork, which she had thrown softly over him while he slept; "Father dear, you won't call -this wasting time, will you?" She asked with coaxing playfulness of manner, looking, as she spoke, smilingly and tenderly down into his face, not doubting, as it seemed, the answer- ing love she should meet there, as well as, perhaps, surprise and pleasure at her performance, which well deserved the coveted reward. But with the same   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       " clouded brow, and in the same irritable tone, he has- tily replied: "Of course I call that wasting time-frivolous non- sense! What is the good of such things, pray?" At this moment his eye fell upon the card which Ellen had stuck in the bottom of the frame, and upon which she had inscribed the words: "My dear father's welcome when he returns to us." Reaching out his hand languidly for the painting, he added, in a some- what softened voice: "Here, let me see if I can make out what it all means. I dare say it does well enough. But I've really seen so many of such things, that I'm tired to death of them. Your poor mother, however, had a great fondness for them, and I suppose you have inherited her taste. What is all this? for I am no dreamer, nor a man of fancy and imagination, but of stern reality and fact, who has lived too much with men engaged in active work or in grand philosophical speculations and scientific discoveries, to find my mind now in a condition to be relaxed and amused with such dull and vapid employments as picture studying and such like entertainments. My recreations must rather stimulate and excite, to some degree, the men- tal powers, while they also gently relax; else my whole nervous system would be prostrated by a too sulden reaction."     12 lHEA VENWARD LED; OR, He smiled a little now as he said this: still there was nothing of genial warmth in his face, but only an expression of something half-way between self com- miseration and self applause, as he resigned himself to what it was evident he wished should be regarded as a life of martyrdom and self-sacrificing devotion, although to what high moral principle, he might pos- sibly have found some difficulty in explaining. Ellen, however, made no critical scrutiny; but, pleased and gratified at seeing the tight, hard lines about his mouth and brow at last relax, she began with readiness to explain to him her pretty as well as loving design. "We missed you, dear father, you see, more than I can tell you, while you were gone, having no longer dear mother with us either." She began softly; then, with a brightening face, continued. "And one morning as I was on my way to the Academy of Arts, and was thinking of you and wondering when the time would come that you should have finished all your troublesome work and have money enough to come home and stay with us always, that we might live together a happy and united family, I chanced to pass a print-shop, where, in the window, was such a pretty painting marked ' Father's come!' The father there was a bluff, honest-looking sea-captain. On the   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       13 step and in the door-way were standing his old mother and father and his sweet, mild-looking wife, with a baby in her arms and two little toddlers cling- ing to her skirts. The bigger boys had gone to meet their father, and were bringing him home. One little fellow was mounted on his back; another was holding his hand; and still another his coat-tail, while they held up in their other hands the toys and pretty things he had brought them. And there must have been a deafening noise, too, amongst them all, for the boys you could see were shouting and laughing and beating drums and blowing trumpets, while the dogs barked and wagged their tails, all except the oldest house-dog, who seemed to be jealously eyeing and growling at two new-comers following closely at his master's heels. I would not copy that piece for you, but made a quieter little home seem more like our own greeting would be. There is good old ' Mammy Polly,' you see, with Rose and Georgie close beside her; and there Charley and I. And here comes our dear sea-captain, tired and weary, as you always are, father, when you come home. We are bringing him in and taking his things, that he may rest by the fire. Our happiness is all in our faces; we make no noise, but see how glad and happy everybody is. I put Charley in the picture, but he is not here, poor fellow, 2     "    HEA ENWARD LED; OR, and has not been at home for several holidays now. How glad he would be to come to meet Isabella and yourself, if you only think it right, father, for him to leave his studies for a little while on this great occasion."  The last words were spoken in a persuasive and caressing voice. Without apparently heeding them, however, the father answered rather coldly. "Thank you; I dare say your picture is all very pretty; but, there, put it down now. It is quite clever, too, in you to think of all that stuff; but don't trouble yourself to paint any more scenes for me; they are beyond my comprehension, and the talk about them only makes me melancholy," he added gloomily. "No father meets me when I return; no mother and no wife! And I bring no gew-gaws to my children. Child, it is doleful enough for me when I come back to this dreary, deserted old place, with- out being reminded of the sad changes in my life by your contrasting pictures. There, do put this away somewhere, and don't paint any more for me." And he drew a long, weary sigh as he handed it back. Ellen was grieved'and disappointed to the very depths of her loving heart at having so entirely failed in her attempt to give pleasure and gratification. Yet, full of yearning affection for her father, she was about to   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       15 throw her arms around his neck, and tell him how dearly she loved him and how much she longed for some answering expression of love and tenderness, but the impulse was quickly checked by his harsh, fretful voice saying, "There, now, you are just in my light- do step aside, please; and you had better find some- thing useful to do." Then he took up again the open pamphlet and began to read. Quietly and gently withdrawing, Ellen put up all her working materials; and, after a long look at her little painting, hid that away, too, far out of sight. Then she got out the book in which she had kept a strict account of all the family expenses during her father's absence. Care- fully she examined each column, corrected every slight mistake, and neatly erased every blot, that it might be all so fair and plain that he would have no difficulty in making it out. Poor child! Those same accounts had already cost her much care and trouble, for won- derously small had been the amount with which she had been expected to meet the household demands; and only by means of her own thrifty and ingenious contrivances, and the sums of money which through her patient industry she had earned, had she been able to do so. In spite of all her efforts there re- mained yet a few small bills to be settled. Presently the heavy oaken parlor door was hastily opened, and     16     H HEAVENWARD LED; OR, George, the youngest son, came rushing in from school, and glanced eagerly and inquisitively round the room, as if he expected to see some great change in its appearance, since the long-talked of and joy- fully-expected event had actually occurred-his father had come, and had been one whole day at home! Then he stood a few moments by the fire, warming his hands, which, by the way, were not in the least cold, gazing steadily all the time at his father, expecting and wishing to be noticed by him. As he was not, however, he next went across the room, and standing by Ellen's side, watched her cal- culating the long, dismal rows of figures, which it always made him feel sorry and pitiful to see her working over; and he wondered she should have to do itl now. After a while he whispered softly: "Have you showed it to him, sister Nellie?"Ellen looked up from her work, smiled slightly, and nodded in the affirmative. "Have you? What did he say?" asked George; but not waiting to hear her, exclaimed, walk- ing as he did so briskly back to the fire: "Father, you have seen sister Nellie's painting she did for you! Isn't it pretty, sir?" "What is it?" asked the father in a far-off, ab- stracted tone of voice. "Oh! have you come in from school?  Well, then you had better be getting your   THE TWO BEQUESTS.        17 tasks ready now for to-morrow. Don't waste time asking idle questions," he continued, without answer- ing the child's question. ' I always learn my lessons after dark, when the lamps are lighted, sir. Sister Nellie lets me play and exercise in the afternoon," answeed the boy; and after waiting a few minutes longer, finding his father still engrossed with his reading, he slowly left the room, looking thoughtful and perplexed. The eager, joyful. expectant feelings had all vanished; and though he went out with his young companions, and played marbles and ball, and ran races, through it all he was conscious of a dull, blank, disap- pointed feeling down in the deep corners of his young heart. And that night as he went up stairs, at bed- time, with Rosa, his little sister, and "Mammy Polly," he turned suddenly, and asked: "Rosa, are you very glad that father has come?" '"Why; to be sure, George!"Ain't you glad, too, I'd like to know?"- said Rosa in surprise. "Of course, Mas George is glad.  All good chil- dren 's glad when their pa comes home," said "Mammy Polly." "Well, yes, I suppose I am glad, too; but it's not a bit like I thought it was going to be. I know I'm glad Isabella has come home to live, though. My! 2*        B     18     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, what a beauty she is! And what nice clothes she wears!" said George. And nothing more was said about the father that night by his children. George had just left the parlor as Isabella, Captain Ashton's second and favorite daughter, entered. She was a rarely and strikingly beautiful young creature, with a tall and elegantly formed person, and with an air of stately grace in her queenly carriage. The pure whiteness of her neck and brow gave a height- ened brilliancy to the rich coloring of her auburn hair and rosy lips, and of the cheeks in which (except when she was deeply excited by some strong and sud- den feeling which she sought to suppress) the young blood mantled, and, by its rising and ebbing crimson tides, betrayed each quickly-varying feeling that floated nearer the surface, without, at the same time, disturbing a certain quiet, calm repose, covering the reserve ground in which were hidden her heart's choicer treasures. Her large, dark hazel eyes were fiill of deep, soft, tender feeling, or could, with a quick, bright, penetrating glance, search out at will your most secret thoughts, as it seemed, in spite of yourself, and, you might even sometimes think, almost relentlessly. The arrangement of her beautiful and luxuriant hair, whether flowing in loose, negligent ringlets or dressed with artistic taste and skill, seemed   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       19 never wanting in a certain classic purity of style and grace. In short, she was always, and in any dress, grand, beautiful, and noble looking, and well worthy of a place amidst those noble and heroic women of the olden time, whom the grand old masters of poetry and painting have delighted in seeking to immortalize. While still, as an ideal perfectly suited to our modern and more prosaic age, as well as to her still childish years, there may possibly have been a shade too much of premature self-control and of proud suppression, and perhaps too great a lack of that irregular gush- ing and bubbling, that joyous spontaniety, and that blossomy freshness and soft, trusting dependence, which seems to us the rightful heritage of youth- ful girlhood, and which we sigh to see too soon dis- placed for even the possibly fairer and more perfect fruitage springing from life's later and sadder expe- riences and lessons. Fifteen summers had not quite passed over her young head, and yet in spite of the rapid play of her countenance, bright with intel ligent animation, and of the strong control in which she was held by her powerful will, there might still be detected something touchingly if not hope- lessly sad in the expression of her lovely face, not unlike that look of heart-broken, sorrowful appeal which remains so lohg and so deeply impressed upon     20     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, one's mind after looking at Guido's exquisite por- trayal of the beautiful but most unhappy Beatrice Cenci. Against this feeling of utter abandonment and des- pairing sadness, from whatever cause it may have sprung, Isabella not only proudly and bravely strug- gled, but tried also perpetually to prevent the slightest betrayal of it by the vivacity of her manner, which was full of natural frankness and graceful ease. To the refined and discriminating taste, it is true, a heightened interest and charm was thus imparted to her faultless contour and beautifully chiselled fea- tures. Yet the casual crowd were not always capa- ble of reading aright the heart-history graven on that fair young face, but mistook often its controlled and suppressed sorrow for cold and haughty indifference, while those even who regarded with the most intensely admiring interest her exquisite and rare beauty, were conscious also of a mingling of regretful sadness as they looked in vain for some lingering trace of happy, thoughtless youth, and felt assured tlht into her young life must already have fallen some drop of never-to-be-forgotten bitterness, strangely at variance with her seemingly brilliant and happy destiny. Casting her eyes quickly around the room, as she entered with her bonnet and mantle on, ready for a   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       21 I walk, she exclaimed, in her sweet, clear voice and frank manner: "Why, dear me! How very sober you look! What's the matter, papa, that you and Ellen stay at opposite ends of the room, with never a word passing between you? Why, as I stood on the threshold just now, it seemed so very still in here, I thought you must be asleep yet; only, if you were, you would be almost equal to the seven wonderful sleepers of whom our fairy tales used to tell; and so evidently my duty was to break the spell. Will you join me, sir, in a walk to the city? And you, too, sister Nell. I am glad to see you putting up your papers. Do get your things and walk with us. Papa, she needs fresh air and exercise to brace her up and make her cheeks rosy, doesn't she? I hope, however, she will now feel at liberty to take some recreation occasionally, and no longer make herself a victim to an endless round of duties, real or imaginary." The last three words were added in a lower and more emphatic tone, and were accompanied by a playful, meaning glance towards Ellen. The father, as soon as she addressed him; had risen from his recumbent posture, and gazed upon her while she spoke with unmistakable admiration and pride. When she had finished, there was respectful deference, amounting     22     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, to almost real courtly homage, in the tone and man- ner with which he answered, calling her " my queen!" as his custom was. "My queen," he said, "I should think you would find a walk through these extensive grounds exercise enough on this your first evening at home. And for any one to whom they have not become too familiar, there are many fine views to be had from various points. Your majesty is particularly fond of fine scenery, if I mistake not." These last words were uttered with a coaxing, depre- cating smile, in the hope of persuading her to aban- don the walk to town, which hope, however, the Queen" did not seem to regard with any especial attention. She promptly replied: "Oh! certainly, Papa-I love beautiful natural scenery as much, I suppose, as it is possible for any one to do. I have already spent the morning in tra- versing the Park grounds, and to my great delight, too; for I could not but exult with proud pleasure in the long line of noble ancestors to whom we are in- debted for all these lasting memorials of their en- larged and liberal minds, and their pure, refined and elevated tastes; and I trust I shall never be so pos- sessed with the spirit of restless craving for novelty and variety, Papa, as to cease finding pleasure in the O' -    THE TWO BEQUESTS.        23 magnificent views of which you speak. I merely thought I should like a glimpse at the city for two perhaps very trivial reasons," she added with a slight shrug of her shoulders, and a little curl of her beauti- fully arched upper lip. "In the first place, on gene- ral principles, I suppose, or being possessed of an inquiring mind, I am fond of making myself ac- acquainted with my surroundings as soon as may be. In the second, I have a slight desire to see whether my memory of those far-off regions of the past, my childish days, when I was last in  , will be re- freshed by any once familiar sights or sounds. But I would by no means drag you along unwillingly, sir. Doubtless, sister Nell here will kindly act as my cice- rone, chaperon or good-sister, as occasion shall re- quire." In spite of the warm gushing love and admiration for her newly restored and beautiful younger sister, with which her heart was overflowing, Ellen was, for a single moment, inclined to feel half amused and half stung, at something in Isabella's tone and manner towards herself which sounded a little like superiority and patronage, but quickly remembering how accus- tomed she had always been to receive admiration and respectful consideration from those around her, she readily made excuses for it, and thought it very pro-     24     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, bable that her sister might not herself be conscious of this manner. On more intimate acquaintance she after- wards found that this first hasty impression had been an entirely erroneous one, and sometimes marvelled, on the contrary, at her rare modesty and entire freedom from all self assertion-she had merely a kind pro- tecting sort of manner, because she seemed to feel older and more experienced than others around her, whose lessons had not, perchance, been so deeply and painfully impressed; and whom she would if she might tenderly shield and protect from such dearly bought knowledge. With the greatest alacrity Ellen ran to prepare for the walk, and at the outer gate their father joined them, having reluctantly decided, after some debate apparently with himself, that it would not be proper for them to go without his protection; which idea made Ellen smile brightly as she recalled the many mornings and evenings when, in all weathers, she had trudged into town, often entirely alone, and never once dreaming of its being necessary to have a gentleman attendant, though her business might call her to the opposite limits of the city. But then she was not her father's beautiful Queen! These reflections, however, awakened not a single bitter or envious feeling in her warm, pure, unselfish heart;   THE TWO BEQUESTS.        25 and to both sisters the walk afforded much pleasure. Their intercourse, though lacking the demonstrative manner and the gushing overflowing confidence and close intimate interchange of feeling and Sentiment naturally expected between two young girls of their age-sisters just restored to each other after years of separation-was still most pleasant and agreeable to both, and not wanting in genuine affection and mu- tual appreciation. Isabella was a courteus, attentive, and inter- ested observer and listener, while Ellen pointed out to her and expatiated upon the different familiar objects to which she wished to draw her sister's espe- cial attention; and then as they passed many pretty suburban residences attracting her admiration, she, in turn, was drawn out and gave glowing descrip- tions, by way of contrast or comparison, of little foreign towns she had visited, and of pretty Swiss cot- tages and Alpine villages, connected with which she had a great store of travellers' anecdotes, or of legends, both numerous and pathetic, which she had collected on the very spot, and told with inimitable grace, and at the same time with an ease and sim- plicity that was child-like in its perfect freedom from affectation or self consciousness. Many admiring glances were cast upon them both, and two most 3     26     HEAVENg ARD LEDI; OR, charming and lovely looking girls they were again and again pronounced by persons who met or passed them on the piece of country road or in the city streets. Ellen, though wholly unlike, formed by no means a mean contrast to her more brilliant younger sister. Her dress, in the first place, though not so elegant and costly, was still faultlessly neat, and showed an exquisitely modest and refined taste. In person, she was more slender and not so tall as Isabella, but her figure was perfect in its proportions, and her move- ments were graceful, and' her step was almost as light and airy as a little fairy's foot-fall. And though she had not her sister's rich, brilliant coloring, her hair "brown golden," as the poets call it, lay in soft little rippling wavelets on her snowy temples, where the tracery of blue veins was seen through the clear,  delicate skin, while the smooth, fine transparent white- j ness of her cheeks, with only the softest, shell-like pink suffusion in them, suited well the large tranquil  gray eyes, so earnestly thoughtful, tender and gentle in their expression, and yet not incapable of some- times tWinkling bewitchingly with genuine gaiety and  I hearty appreciation of the humorous. There was more youthful hopefulness and elasticity of spirit   ! about her than about Isabella. Through the admira- tion they excited, attention was also drawn to their   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       27 father, who would gladly have avoided observation, as was evident from the manner in which he slunk be- hind them, with his arms folded over his chest, under the ample folds of the cloak which enveloped his tall figure, and with his eyes bent towards the ground, ap- parently heeding no one, and taking no part in his daughters' conversation except to reply briefly when directly addressed by either of them. In spite of his very apparent wish to escape recognition however, more than one old acquaintance remarked him with astonishment, and not very complimentary epithets were several times attached by them to his name. The little party, in coming down a long street, where, at that time, only a few other persons hap- pened to be passing, had been advancing towards two gentlemen, army officers as their dress showed, who were standing at the corner, and had for some time been expressing the highest admiration of the two young girls, wondering who they were, and warmly discussing the question as to which was the most beautiful. "Well! upon my honor! if that is not Richard Ashton with them!" exclaimed, in a suppressed voice, Col. Fitzhugh, the elder gentleman, to Lieut. White, his companion; " and he, precious scamp that he is, must undoubtedly be their father!" he added, as tak-     28     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, ing his companion's arm, he moved somewhat aside to avoid a direct meeting, as it seemed, with his old ac- quaintance. "Who is he? what do you know of him, Colonel?" asked Lieut. White, in a low, eager, interested voice; turning again to watch them now that they had passed. "Why, its none other than the redoubtable Captain Richard Ashton, of Ashton Park. I certainly know no good of the man-nor does any one else, I'll wager." The young man looked down gravely for a moment; then they both stood silently watching the three until they were out of sight, when they turned and walked away in an opposite direction. "He is at least a splendid foil for those superb daughters of his, if indeed they did spring from such a scrubby old stock," said the young man, abruptly resuming their conversation. "But, Colonel, if you have ever known him, you will have to renew your acquaintance immediately, and introduce he too; for I shall never rest until I know those beautiful girls. My! what a magnificent creature that eldest one is! no duchess or queen could carry herself with a grander air. 'Tis a woman a man could worship! such eyes, and such hair! and then her voice! why the clear, sil-     THE TWO BEQUESTS.        29 ver, bell-like tones are making music yet in my ears! How I would like to catch the sound of it once more. Then, with a mock theatrical air and gesture, and a comical glance at the old Colonel's eyes, he exclaimed: "'Oh! you so perfect, and so peerless, are created of every creature best, The very instant that I saw you did my heart fly to your service!' "Now, is not that so, Colonel? Why, if her father was Old Nick himself I should be tempted to cultivate him for her sake." "What a boy you are! I wish you were not so fond of rhyming trash. You would not be far from Old Nick's fellowship, I assure you, when consorting with Richard Ashton. I don't think I could answer for it satisfactorily to my conscience, Tom, were I to introduce you to such a character. But, for the sake of those two lovely young daughters I am sorry, upon my word, I am," said Colonel Fitzhugh, with earnest gravity. "Why, so am I, indeed; but, after all, they may not be his daughters. I must find out at once," answered the young lieutenant. "Oh, yes; I am quite sure they are. No other young ladies I should think would be seen walking on - 3*     30     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, the street with him, nor would he be apt to invite them.- There is no mistake about it, Tom, black sheep that he is, he has two spotless white lambs- that's all"-said the colonel, to which Lieutenant White made no reply, and both walked on silent and thoughtful for some time afterwards; and for the pre- sent we must leave them to their cogitations. As the father and daughters passed the rectory, Ellen, looking up, saw good old Dr. Blackstone, her pastor, and also her kindest and dearest friend, sitting at the window of his cosy study, where she had spent so many pleasant hours with him and with her young friend Florence, his daughter. With a face full of bright, happy meaning, she glanced towards her father and sister as she bowed to him, and he smiled with kind, cordial sympathy and pleasure as he returned her salutation. "Who are those with Miss Ellen, father?" asked Harry Blackstone, coming to the window to see who his father was speaking to. "The gentleman, my son, is her father, and the young lady can only, I suppose, be Isabella, her younger sister." "Not younger, father!" "Yes, younger; though, to be sure, if it is Isabella, she is wonderfully tall and well-grown for her age.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       31 Come, wife, what do you say?  See, she has the growth of a woman. "And certainly the air and carriage of one," said his wife, laughing a little, and then continued: "Of course, I could not expect to recognise Isabella, who was hardly more than an infant when they took her off; but, like Harry, should think it hardly possible that could be Ellen's younger sister. Still it can, of course, be no one else. Ah! yes, she has, too, Isabella's hair and complexion, I see. How very beautiful she is! I wonder if she is as sweet and lovely as our pretty little Ellen?" "I hope so. Poor children! Poor, motherless children!" said the good old minister tenderly. "I must go in a few days to see Captain Ashton. I wish I could hope to find him a wiser and a better man than he once was. He certainly felt deeply the loss of his lovely wife. Poor man, it is a pity he should not have stayed at home, instead of rushing off to forget his sorrow in the society of evil companions, as I fear he has done, for reports of him are not favor- able. Reports-are-not-favorable," he repeated in a slow, musing tone, as with moistened eyes he stood at the window, looking in the direction the trio had gone, long after they were out of sight. Whether conscious or not of the kind of notice he f-te      'do  oieh     32     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, had attracted, Captain Ashton certainly looked fagged and out of sorts on his return. With a feeble attempt at jocularity, he said to Isabella while hanging up his large cloak in the wide, old-fashioned wainscotted hall: "I shall not act again shortly as body-guard on the streets to a Serene Highness that is never weary of seeing and of being seen." Then more gravely added: "I should be very glad if you could be content to take your walks within the enclosure as much as pos- sible, there is so much evil in the world, from which I would shield you if I can." Isabella fixed her eyes-good, candid, sincere eyes that they were-full upon him in questioning surprise, that seemed plainly to ask, "' What in the world, papa, can you mean by playing off any shams on me?" He so read her glance, perhaps; for though he at- tempted no reply, he winced and looked down as he hastily turned to go into the parlor to the fire. Late in the evening, after she had helped George to learn his lessons, Ellen asked her father whether she should then bring him her accounts to look over. "No, not to-night; to-morrow morning will do," he answered; and then looking up at her crossly, he said in a pettish voice: "I believe you have scarcely been out of my sight this whole day long!" Ellen felt that his tone and manner meant even more than his words expressed, and that he was impatient to be rid   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       33 of her; and now her face not only expressed wounded feeling but gentle dignity and quiet self-respect, as she gathered up her little belongings and bade him good- night. Isabella was seated at the piano, carelessly run- ningher fingers over the keys. She did not appa- rently raise her eyes or seem to notice what passed; acting as she would have wished others to do to her under similar circumstances: but every nervous fibre of her body thrilled with sympathetic sensibility as she closely and admiringly watched Ellen's every look and movement. And could Ellen have seen the per- fectly marble-like whiteness which for a moment over- spread her face, she would have been comforted with the assurance of having her sister's full, generous sympathy; but not seeing this, she left the room with the jingling of the piano-keys jarring most discord- antly upon her sore and wounded heart. Pausing, however, a few moments, with a serious, thoughtful look on her sweet face, after she had closed the door, her habitually cheerful, tranquil expression quickly returned; the little cloud had passed over, and left no trace behind. As soon as she was gone Isabella rose, and shutting down the piano, came towards her father, and looking him full in the face, gravely, even re- c     34     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, bukingly, said, "How could you do so, papa?" and then bidding him good-night, was about also to leave the room. But he called her back, saying: "My daughter," a name he seldom called her now, too con- scious that she felt no especial pride in their relation- ship. "My daughter, I am sorry if I hurt the poor child's feelings. I was not thinking of that; but there was something on my mind, which I must say to you to-night. Sit down, do, a few moments." Isabella obeyed, looking still grave and grand, and much more like an offended parent than a petted child. Nothing being said for some minutes by her father, she asked in a tone of perfect respect, yet with cool- ness and very apparent indifference to his agitation- there was even a very slight smile around her lip, not ironical nor satirical, but just a little incredulous: "Well, papa, what is it? I am all attention, sir." After looking awkward, and shuffling about a little longer, he at length abruptly asked: "Isabella, why, did you look at me so strangely this evening in the hall?" Pausing in her surprise only an instant, she replied with blunt straightforwardness: "Of course, papa, you can only mean when you were acting a little scene, for whose benefit I was at a loss to know.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       35 Your part was the tender, anxious parent, watching over the moral welfare of his child; mine, perhaps, -f elLthrough because I was unable to sustain it. But you know I never can, I am no actress; and you know, too," she added more severely, "how repug- nant all imposture is to me." Then softly and sor- rowfully, as if repenting on the moment: "Pardon me if I am disrespectful and undutiful; I am always trying to do my duty, and to render you the honor which is required from a child to a parent;" and she rose again, supposing he had said all he wished, and longing to be out of his sight. He detained her, however, saying in a beseeching voice: "A few moments more, my child; I want to remind you of your promise, Isabella. You will not be drawn by any impulse of confidence and affection for your sisters and brothers to betray my trust, will you? You will not tell them of those little incidents- I mean through which we have passed together-and in which your conduct so entirely won my approba- tion, my love, respect, and esteem for you, that I now look upon you as my guardian angel, and hope in you as my rescuer and deliverer. I have your promise, made at the time, to be silent; but still it has made me anxious when you were about to be alone with your sister."     36     HEAV'ENWARD LED; OR, Now Isabella rose and stood before him, and there was queenly majesty indeed in her bearing as she ex- claimed with solemn earnestness: "Papa! papa say no more, I beg you. Is it not yet possible that there should be truth even between us in our intercourse? You must allow me, in the sacred name of truth, to change some of the expres- sions you have used, before I can give my assent to what you have stated. You speak of the betrayal of trust reposed in me. Papa, did you voluntarily re- pose trust in me, or was it not that my childish facul- ties were more acute than you supposed, and that I understood and was revolted at what you thought would simply amuse me without pausing to ask whether it might not also contaminate? And when you speak of 'little incidents through which we have passed to- gether,' I am shocked to find things so miscalled. Think of them truly, I beg you, and don't attempt to disguise ugly and distasteful facts; I never can. Again, I disclaim ever having acted as your guardian angel. I have simply allowed you the free use of my aunt's bequest to me, and have promised to continue this upon a few simple conditions only-that you do not spend it in abuses which they loathed, that you do not incur dishonorable debts, and that you lead a quiet, domestic life at home with your family. ,And I   THE TWO BEQUESTS.        37 also promised-but voluntarily, you remember, papa- that as long as you live thus I will do all in my power to shield you from disgrace, and not to unveil your character as it has been shown to me, to my young and innocent brothers and sisters. For the sake of their peace and happiness, may they always, if possi- ble, be kept in ignorance of every painful fact, the knowledge of which has cost me such sharp pangs of Fortification and distress, that all my childhood and youth have long since fled from me. These are not pleasant secrets for me to carry in my bosom-in- deed, no secrets are naturally to my taste. Reserve and secrecy I have learned in the same bitter school that taught me to exchange the light-hearted gaiety of childhood for the premature cares and sorrows of womanhood. I have pledged you my word, and I am sure you know me well enough to feel assured that that word is sacred, however difficult the promised task might prove. I trust, therefore, that you will not think it necessary to renew this most painful subject again. I will try to render you such dutiful service as the Bible demands from  me. We are told to honor our parents. Would that you would try to make that not so difficult a command! I am no guardian angel, but I do most truly love and honor the truth-the plain, simple, straightforward truth is 4     38     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, inexpressibly lovely in my eyes, and I have also a most jealous regard for our family honor; when these are wounded, I do suffer, indeed, most intensely. Money is as nothing in comparison with our truth and honor. Good-night, papa!"And with a courteous, grave air, she bowed and retired. He made no attempt to detain her longer now, but felt it a relief to be left alone to recover from the agi- tation into which the, conversation had thrown him. It was not the first time he had cowered before her honest, truthful glance. More than once had he done homage to the sacred majesty of truth as repre- sented in her person. No wonder that he had accus- tomed himself to call her "My Queen!" As Ellen passed her sister's door, on her way to her own chamber, after her dismission from the par- lor, she opened it and stepped into the room for a moment to see if everything was comfortable and in order there. She had a sweet, motherly way of going round from room to room each night since their mother's death, to look after her brothers and sisters, and satisfy herself that all was right with them before she retired. Bridget, the Irish maiden whomh Isabella had brought with her, sprang up with alacrity upon seeing her, and placing, with true Irish hospitality and politeness; a chair in front of the fire, begged her O     .    '   THE TWO BEQUESTS.        39 to be seated and warim herself until "the young misthress" should tome up, as she was sure she would soon, and be as glad as ever she could be to see her in her own room. "And shure she is the grand lady, every bit of it, is Miss Isabella," she added, as if to impress upon Ellen the honor it would be to receive this welcome from her. Ellen, having herself no maid devoted to her exclusive use, had forgotten for the time about Bridget. She declined her hospitable proposal, smiling as she did so at the girl's warm Irish manner, and at her very evident desire to detain her, as much to beguile her own lonesome hours as to exercise the rights of hospitality in the apartment over which she presided. Having passed on to George's little room, and seen that he was snugly tucked in bed and comfortably asleep, she next went to her father's chamber, and, with her own hands, placed his dressing-gown and slippers just where he might find fhem most readily, laid a book which she thought he would like to read on the table by his candles, and then, with a look of happy peace on her face, she entered her own room, where she found good, kind, faithful old Mammy Polly sitting in the chimney corner, and knitting by the firelight, while her precious little charge, Rosa, slept.     40     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, "There, Mammy Polly, I have come to relieve you now, but if you are not in a hurry to go down stairs, suppose you stop by, a little while, in Isabella's room, and chat a little with poor Bridget; she seems so lonesome. You know she is a stranger in our coun- try, and must miss her friends sometimes," said Ellen. "And is that what you've left the parlor, and Miss Isabella, and your pa, this early for, Miss Ellen? Why, don't you trouble yourself, Miss Ellen, about these Irish servants. They's plenty able enbugh to take kere of theirselves and find people to talk to. But since you has come, I's no ways sorry, for Miss Rosa's got a bad cold, and is quite onwell. That's been the reason I stayed here with her; and if I was you I'd give her a dose of oil right off," said the old nurse, who, though not especially friendly to the Irish, was devoted to all the Ashton family, who she was firmly convinced were the greatest and best people on earth. Over the infancy of each one of the young people of the present generation she had watched with ten- der, motherly care. Rosa, her "last baby," as she always called her, was especially dear to her, and it was a touching and pretty sight to see the lovely little girl caressing and petting her "dear mammy;" whom she was seldom willing to leave very long, expecting   THE TWO BEQUESTS.        41 her to take part in all her infantine games, to dress her dolls, and teach them how to behave like real ladies, and to " tell her picture books" to her. She earnestly thought the old woman as beautiful, too, as she was good. "You've got eyes just like my mamma," she had said in her soft little voice, looking earnestly up in Isabella's face, and feeling perfectly satisfied that she had now paid the highest possible compliment to the new sister whom she heard every one call beautiful. Ellen went anxiously to the bed where her little four-year-old sister was sleeping, and looked carefully at her, to see if she seemed much indisposed. Her breathing was hoarse, and her cheeks flushed, though she was sleeping soundly; so she agreed with "Mam- my" in her prescription, and the little girl was taken out of bed and wrapped in blankets, on her old nurse's lap, while Ellen, as carefully and tenderly as an experienced nurse or mother could have done it, administered the warm foot-bath, and all the other restoratives usual in cases of threatened croup, Rosa fretting and rebelling a little at being so disturbed and roused from her sound sleep, but submitting when told how ill she might become if she did not. When the nauseous medicine was brought, she shook her head with firm determination, and refused to take 4*     42     HEAVEN WARD LED; OR, it. After trying, in vain, by every other means, to cajole her, Mammy at last promised to take a dose herself the next morning, when she might stand by and see her swallow it; and Miss Ellen would say which took their medicine the best. Persuaded by this inducement, the little creature swallowed the dose, washed her mouth like a lady, as Mammy told her, and having been well greased with mutton tallow and swathed in warm flannels, was put back to bed; Ellen promising to sing her to sleep again, which she did, after first putting out the light and making up the fire; and Mammy Polly went, as she had been asked, to talk to Bridget. But by this time Isabella had herself come to her room, and not being in a mood to listen to Bridget's garrulous tongue, had dismissed her to the kitchen, even with some little abruptness of manner, while she *    was in the very act of combing the "young   mis thress's" beautiful hair. It was a most unusual thing for Isakella to betray her feelings by any outward sign of impatience; but to-night she was wearied with her long journey, and her mind also was overwrought and strained by the outward composure, even gaiety of manner, which she had forced herself all day to assume, while her heart was in reality stirred to its profoundest depths and   THE TWO BEQUESTS.        43 crowded with a rush of emotions, caused by her return to the dear, though unfamiliar, old homestead. Ah! how much there was about it to gratify her taste and please her imagination, as well as to stimulate her family pride! While, at the same time, it made her more sensitively alive to the tarnished lustre of their good old name-tarnished by her own father's want of honor and integrity! And then the sisters and brothers whom as yet she scarcely knew, but for whom, orphaned as they seemed to her while under their living father's roof, she felt a chord of tender sympathy vibrating through her heart, so lonely as it was, and so hungry for something like real home love, compa- -nionship, and confidence. Yet she seemed to herself kept apart from those who nature had intended should supply this need. In the first place, having all her life been unaccus- tomed to associate with young persons of her own age, she ,could not immediately overcome, though she might conceal, her feelings of shyness with them; and again, she was restrained by the consciousness of having confided to her secrets in which she could not invite them to share, and with which she did not wish to burden their hearts. She was afraid that her man- ner had seemed to them all cold and repressive, but especially to Ellen, who had met her with such a gush     "    HEAVEN WARD LED; OR, of warm sisterly love, and who was so near her own age that between them there ought to have sprung up at once the closest intimacy and affection. The love she was sure was all there- in spite of an unnatural reserve which her painful experience of life for, two years past had taught her, even towards her nearest kindred. She could not have given her confidence fully even had she wished; and it would hardly seem fair to receive her sister's and yet make no re- turn. Her natural character was so frank and open, that concealment from those she loved very much was most distasteful to her, and at the same time her sense of honor was so high that she would have submitted to any trial rather than betray, by word or look, the least particular relating to a matter she had promised not to reveal. And so, in short, there were many conflicting feelings and opposite impulses in her heart which made her intercourse at first with her sister almost as painful as it was pleasing to her. The remembrance of her late exciting. interview with her father, too, coming upon her, as it did, in this mood, called forth a feeling of almost irrepressible loathing and contempt for him. She had struggled hard against it before, and now began again to battle with herself on this account, although she did not hesitate to acknowledge that it was impossible to give   THE TWO BEQUESTS.        45 him a daughter's love, or in her heart respect him; and she had candidly expressed as much to him; yet if, by rendering him persistently the outward marks of that dutiful regard which, as his daughter, she owed him, it was possible to rouse within him one latent spark of self-respect, would there not be more hope of his reformation? and for that end how gladly would she have sacrificed her whole fortune! She re- solved now to try to curb her feelings, and to persevere in her endeavors to reclaim him, until satisfied that she had done all that lay in her power to secure this end; and then should his case prove hopeless, she thought -and her head unconsciously rose up loftily as the reflection passed through her mind-I, at least, shall have done my duty, and shall have proved myself not an unworthy descendant of our race. When "Mammy Polly" put her head in at the door, she was seated before the fire, with her face resting on the back of her hand, which lay on the lit- tle table near her. Her long bright auburn curls were hanging just as Bridget had left them, over the back of her chair, and touching the floor. The old woman had made a gesture at first, as if intending to withdraw for fear of disturbing her young mistress, but became alarmed as she noticed her white, still, Btatue-like appearance; and, after a moment's hesita-     "     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, tion, closed the door, and approaching, inquired anxiously if the young lady was ill or would have anything. Isabella, upon hearing herself addressed, started like one just roused from a deep sleep, and looked at :first with a puzzled, inquiring expression, into the old servant's face. Then, quickly recovering her cus- tomary self command, answered in her usual pleasant tone of voice, and with a smiling air; her color all instantly returning as she spoke: "Oh! no, I'm not sick; I am only a little tired; but I thought I heard a child's cry as I came up-stairs. Is anything the matter with little Rosa?" "No, Miss; only she has a dreadful bad cold, and Miss Ellen and me was a-getting her warmed good, and giving her some medicine." Isabella, upon hearing this, rose immediately to go to see how the little one was, and to offer to help Ellen during the night, if anything should be needed. But the nurse stopped her, saying, "She 's better now, Miss Isabella; and the candle's out; and Miss Ellen's getting her to sleep; and you do look so tired, Miss. You had better let me put you to bed yourself. I thought that Irish woman was here to wait on you," she added, looking round the .room with quite a severe expression in her usually mild face, as she found that   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       47 Bridget was nowhere to be seen. "Miss Ellen thought she might be lonesome like, and sent me here to talk a bit with her, and that's how I come to find you here by yourself, looking tired enough to be sick, while that Irish one's gone, I'll be bound, to find company down stairs." "Thank you, dear old Mammy, but I am not quite ready to go to bed yet, if you 'll please let me sit up a little longer," replied Isabella in a playful, coaxing tone, which was irresistibly fascinating to old Polly. Hitherto the young lady's stately bearing had awed her and made her feel that she must worship her at a great distance. The worship, however, she was bound to render, for not only was she, like every one else, captivated and enslaved by admiration for her rare beauty and exquisite grace of manner, but intertwined with these feelings were many fond associations and recollections of the past. All day she had been wist- fully watching her as she went about the house and grounds, with feelings of blended pride, gratification, and wondering bewilderment. It was hard for her to realize that she had once carried about in its infancy- such a little while ago, too, it seemed to her--that tall, elegant form, and had felt her neck encircled by those lovely white arms on which there were now sparkling gems. Several times the tears had rolled     48     HEAVEIWARD LED; OR, down her cheeks as she had wished for her dear mis- tress back again, "just to take one look at the sweet, beautiful young thing." She had already approached to-night nearer with her familiarity than she had ever expected to do again, but upon hearing herself so kindly and condescendingly addressed by her idol, she was completely overpowered, and seizing one of her long, lovely ringlets, she carried it to her lips and kissed it repeatedly, and would gladly have done the same to the hem of her garment, or to the little slip- pered foot which rested on the low fender. Isabella smiled kindly on her, and then finished replying to the old nurse's questions. "I dismissed Bridget," she said, because I was in no mood to talk or listen to-night; doubtless she would be greatly pleased to find some one willing to do either, for she has already a good stock of stories to tell and plenty of lively chat, for which she is always glad to get a chance. So good-night now, Mammy, and good speed also upon sister Nell's kind errand." She thus cut short the old woman's visit kindly, yet decidedly, for she felt unable to keep up their talk together any longer just then, and that another at- tempt at endearment on the affectionate old servant's part would break down all her wonted fortitude and self-control. When she was left again to herself she \   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       49 resumed her thoughtful attitude, and with her eyes fixed upon the embers which glowed on the hearth, allowed her thoughts to travel, with softened feelings, through a different channel. Old Mammy's visit had done her good. Ever and anon her sister's sweet, lovely face, thoughtful and sad, seemed to peer out from the midst of some fiery castle, just as it was about to crumble into ashy ruins. She felt an irre- sistible longing to go to her and say some little tender, loving word, which, without containing any allusion to the incidents of the day or evening, might help to soothe the sense of injured pride which she felt would have been her predominant feeling had she been in Ellen's place. Rising, therefore, presently, she stepped softly to Ellen's chamber, intending to make a pretext of inquiring after little Rosa, and really also wishing to know how she did. In answer to her light tap Ellen gently opened the door, and seemed surprised to find her there. She promptly reassured her about the little invalid's health, who was sleeping sweetly now and breathing very well. Seeing that Isabella still lingered, she invited her to come in and see the child, which she did, and going to the bed, drew back the dimity curtains and imprinted a soft kiss on the little one's forehead; then turned to Ellen, 5        D     50     HEA VENWARD LED; OR, and kissing her, without another word but simply "Good-night," left her. After she returned to her -own room she walked several times up and down the floor in deep thought, yet with a strange, new feeling of lull and hush over her mind. In. her hasty glance round Ellen's room she saw that her sister had been engaged writing with the light so shaded as not to disturb the little sick sleeper, and on her face she had been unable to dis- cover the slightest trace of anger, pride, or even wounded feeling. But though as through a sort of magnetic sympathy this peaceful calm had caused a temporary hush in Isabella's own tempest-tossed spirit, the troubled stream of thought was not so ef- fectually calmed as to withstand the effect of the im- pediments by which, through her close reasoning and critical reflections, she began again to disturb its smooth, even flow. The more she thought of it, the more she seemed to 'be perplexed by Ellen's happy unconscious look and manner, her own recent sharp agony of mind was in such painful contrast; and how much of it, she reflected, had been caused by what was surely a generous feeling of sympathy for her sister in her supposed sorrows! Now she began to think that all the sorrow and suffering were hers only. While she was too kind and too noble to wish to im-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       51 pose a feather's weight of her own burden or trouble upon others, yet it oppressed her terribly, and made her feel very lonely to think that between hers and every heart around her there seemed a great barrier, and a total want of sympathetic harmony. What sweetness she might now have found in prayer, could she have made it the medium of heart-to-heart inter- course and communion with the Father of her spirit, or had she known as an " elder brother" that Man of Sorrows who was acquainted with grief-who carried our very sorrows and bore our very griefs, and to whose tenderest sympathy and compassion appealed most strongly that very loneliness of heart which so op- pressed her! Hlad he not sorrows which no man could share, and was he not alone in the garden; during his hour of sharpest agony, while the disciples, even the best beloved and chosen friend who but a short time before had leant in loving intimacy upon his bosom, all heavily slumbered? To Isabella, however, though so richly endowed with nature's choicest gifts, religion had not yet be- come a part of her life; its beautiful and refreshing streams flowed around and about her, as it were; they even adorned and beautified her outward actions, but had found no channel by which they might convey their never-failing springs of comfort to her soul.     52     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, Morning and evening she knelt reverently in prayer, as she had been taught from infancy to do, feeling troubled and disturbed if this duty was from any cause prevented or neglected. She also read her Bible regularly, and her very retentive memory was stored with its choicest passages. She could repeat, without a fault, the Sermon on the Mount; and many long, didactic chapters she had learned at the sugges- tion of her aunts, as well as many beautiful passages from Job, Isaiah and the other prophets, which had been committed for her own gratification; their sub- lime imagery and poetic and harmonious flow of lan- guage having charmed her fine and highly cultivated taste. But one of her greatest comforts was now often derived from the habit she had acquired of re- gistering the most important events of the day, and of expressing her thoughts and feelings without reserve as to a sort of second-self; and for this relief she longed to-night. Accordingly when Bridget came again to see if her young lady was ready yet for her services, she said in her gracious, pleasant manner: "Just wishing for you, my good, kind, clumsy, old Biddy, to tell me where in the world you have put my writing-desk." "Och! now and shure, it 's not writing the young misthress would be after doing to-night? and it so   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       53 late as it is, too! Why, the master himself has gone to bed, an' ordered all the lights out down stairs," said Biddy. "And you shall go to bed yourself, too, Bridget, just as soon as you get me my desk, although it is not so very late. I am not quite sleepy yet, so writ- ing is the very thing I'd be after doing to-night," re- plied the young lady. So the desk was produced from the unsuitable and unsuspected depository which Bridget, in arranging the room, had found for it. And having first per- suaded her young mistress to let her finish combing and binding up the still loosely-flowing hair, she was dismissed for the night. And then the record of her life that one day at home, and the thoughts and re- flections caused thereby, were added to the closely- written pages of her diary, already filled with thrill- ing passages from the young life so brilliant in some respects, and yet so strangely full of painful and unchildlike experience. "September 0.--This is my second night beneath the old roof-tree of my forefathers, after an absence of almost eleven years, during which time I have passed from infancy to youthful girlhood only in reality. But in heart and feeling how old! A woman, fully grown in experience, and most pain- 5*     54     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, fully enlightened in regard to things of which many a woman born to a happier lot has gone peacefully to sleep and awaked in heaven, knowing nothing. Ages, it seems to me, should rather be counted by sorrows, perplexities, trials, and rude experiences of life, than by mere days and weeks and years. "It was quite late when we arrived last night, and I was too tired to write. My feelings, also, were too confused to admit of any analysis. I could scarcely say which were most predominant-the joyful or the sad. But surely there is great rest and peace in the very thought and name of home to one who has lived so much in public, and been such a wanderer as I during the last two years. Of this day, however, what shall I write? The old story still, of humili- ations and mortifications, which attend upon my steps even here, in the midst of much that is calculated to dignify and elevate the heart and mind. I try to real- ize, for my comfort, what in my heart I must believe, that my wretched father is, morally at least, insane. Surely a man so devoid of all sense of what is right and due both to himself and others, in one born to his position in life, and sprung from a race ennobled by its conspicuous virtues, must be laboring under some miserable and unfortunate hallucination. This is my charity for him; and upon this ground I try to   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       55 bear with him as patiently as I learned to do with one upon whose intellect the great God had indeed laid his disabling touch. But whenwe walked abroad this evening, I could plainly see how men were looking at him askance, here in his own country and among his own people, who, if he would let them, would love and honor him, if only for the sake of his father and his forefathers. "All men speak well of my grandfather. The old servants and the neighboring poor had much to tell me of his and of my sweet mother's goodness. How I thanked them for their delicate consideration! They could tell me nothing gratifying of my father-so they passed him by, and seemed to recognise in me only a descendant of the former generations. Some of the good old folks who remember my grandmother in her youth, say that when they look at me they can scarcely think I am not herself returned to them. So it was with my old aunts always. I love to be like her, not only because she was beautiful, but also because she was noble and good. I can't love or re- spect any one who is not honorable, high-minded, and truthful; and I am so thankful that my mother was so sweet, lovely, and good as people all tell me she was. I can only call up her image indistinctly by means of the miniature she sent me. But I remember how she     56     HEA VENWARD LED; OR, wept over me and prayed with me in her chamber the morning I was taken away from her to my aunt's, in Ireland; and how she charged me never to forget her, but above all, to pray to God to make me good and to keep me always so. Her weeping frightened me, I remember, too, and I wept passionately, and said I would not go away, until she soothed me with sweet words, drying her own tears that she might better succeed in drying mine. "And then my father came to take me. My father, whom then I loved as dearly as a child could love a parent so seldom seen; but I loved him; and when he took me on his knee, and made me lavish pro- mises-toys I should have, and beautiful sights I should see; but, above all, so soon come back again to mamma, bringing her all manner of treasures from Ireland-I believed his, every word, and fell asleep, smiling and trustful, in his arms. "I have had many beautiful things given me, and have also seen a great deal. The promised return was postponed until I ceased to think of it. I am here to-night, but mamma is no longer here to welcome me! She has been two years living with the angels. If she loved truth as I do, and doubtless she did, it must have been a blessed relief indeed to be taken where there is no more deception and falsehood. I I       -l    THE TWO BEQUESTS.       57 should love the Bible, if for nothing else, because it tells me how hateful all lying and injustice are in God's sight. "Now for my brothers and sisters. I hardly know them yet, but will try to-morrow to feel more at home with them. Poor desolate children! At least they seem so to me, but after all it may only be my imagination which pictures their lot as unhappy and forlorn. Where I should, I know, be miserable they may be in their own way very happy, for I am sure that I do not comprehend them. Ellen, my elder sister, yet seeming so. mu'ch younger, is very lovely in appearance, and, judging from what I have seen, in character too. Her face has all the purity and sweet- ness of one of Raphael's loveliest Madonnas, her eyes are so earnest and tender ; and while in some respects she is young and gushing as a child, in others she seems matronly, wise, and thoughtful. "She has taken our mother's place to the children; and they love her so dearly, and my heart has been much drawn to her. "But; ah me! I have learnt to question and to doubt very long before I can fully trust now, and before I can give even this sweet little sister the full, devoted, perfect love I wish to feel; I must be sure she is all I have thought her. To-night there has seemed in her     58     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, a total lack of all sensibility, instead of the heroic yet gentle patience I had been fancying, She had borne all day with our father's fretful whims most patiently and sweetly-he has been full of petty tyranny towards her. It exasperated me to see it. Now, I think, however patiently she may bear with it she should still be conscious of it; and how can she love him as she professes to do when he treats her so? It is impos- sible, I should think. Oh! I do hope she is as candid and truthful as she is gentle and sweet; if not, farewell to all sisterly intimacy between us; and I feel that I should be miserable too, now, if I cannot go on loving her. "I am miserable to-night, so full of doubt and mis- trust and regret, and so wretched in being so. The poor little ones here at home are poorly and plainly clad. The furniture, once fine and handsome, is tarnished and shabby, and the house seems very bare of little ordinary comforts; old and costly articles are used for common purposes when cheaper modern ones would do better. I dare say the poor children have had little enough money to live on. Indeed I should know it, if only from poor Nell's anxiety and bother over her accounts and little bills, which George told me pathetically about. But dear me! to be sure, how could that be helped when there are so many   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       59 spiritual mediums needing gold and silver for their impostures; and so many honorable debts to the honorable gentlemen who meet at gambling tables! All of them not being Shylocks who clamor only for the pound of flesh nearest the heart-or nearest the place where the heart should be. 'And what are children's bread and children's clothes to claims like those? "But it is growing late, and I must to bed; although I certainly have not written myself sleepy. I shall be grieving and puzzling over Nell now till morning, I dare say. Oh! I hope she is the sweet lovely child-woman that I thought, for I do so want to love her dearly and to feel perfect trust in her." It was truly long before Isabella ceased her restless tossings and clWed her eyes in sleep, so excited had she allowed her mind to grow over the perplex- ing questions she was revolving without ever arriv- ing at any satisfactory conclusion; and so painfully was she reflecting upon the misdoings of her un- happy parent. Poor child! with all her marvellous womanly strength and fortitude, she was yet too weak to bear the burden she imposed upon her self; and with all her clear discernment and keen insight, she was yet too blind to read what was not written for her eye. For upon her childish shoulders     60     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, she was trying to bear the burden of another's con- science, another's sins and shortcomings, forgetting that none of us can bear even the weight of our own, but must lay them all upon the Lamb of God who came to take upon himself the sins of the whole world, and who alone can bear them. And no wonder that her sight failed her when she tried to look into hidden mysteries, and to read what God discloses to none other than himself, unmindful of the kindness as well as the wisdom of the decree by which "Heaven's Sovereign saves all beings but himself, That hideous sight-a naked human heart." She had mounted to the judgment seat where only the great Eternal Judge of all can sit, and from whence he sends the merciful as well as autphritative prohibi- tion, "Judge not that ye be not judged." No wonder then that she was amazed and confounded, and that sleep forsook her eyelids. Had she, however, been permitted a glimpse behind that impenetrable veil, and been allowed to read with the eye of the All-seeing One what was passing at that very time in the hearts which so perplexed and bewildered her, and then to compare them with her own, what astonishment, and what humiliation and self-abasement, might have followed these disclosures! Even the wretched father,   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       61 for whose misdoings his child could find in her heart no palliation or excuse, was he not still one of the lost sheep whom Christ came to seek and to save? And how could she tell how strong in God's sight might prove the plea of natural weakness and infirmity, nor, in her own case, what depth and force might be shown her in the meaning of the warning assurance that ' unto whom much is given, of him shall much be required?" The cross which it was allotted her to bear was unquestionably a heavy one, more crushing and oppressive, too, because of her own comparative purity; and we could never find it in our hearts to blame the poor child because she suffered under its weight, and shrunk back in agony of mind from the contaminating approach of sin. Nay, far from it, we would, but in tenderest pity, bid her look up and see the Strong One, waiting and ready to take up the whole burden, so soon as she shall be willing to lay it on his shoulders and submit herself with a trusting child-like spirit to his guidance, doing but, simply and directly, the duty he shall indicate in answer to the question "Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?" and expecting no other reply than the one vouchsafed the eager ques- tioning Peter, "What is that to thee? follow thou me," when she presumes like him to ask, "Lord, and what shall this man do?" 6     62     HEAVENWARD LED 1 O?, CHAPTER SECOND. THE ASHTONS OF OLD; AND CAPTAIN RICHARD'S ANTECEDENTS.  HE career of this same Captain Richard Ashton had been long a painfully inter- esting and surprising enigma to the large community among whom he had been born and bred, and to his father, the Hon. Judge Charles Ashton, his life had been the cause of heart-breaking sorrow and mortification. The Ashtons had been people of note from almost the first settlement of the American colonies; the best blood of the old country flowed in their veins, and so long had they been re- markable for every high and noble quality of heart and head, that these gifts had begun to be naturally expected as a sort of inevitable endowment attached to the family name. The family pride, of which they were sometimes accused, was rendered, perhaps, par- donable since it led them to establish among them- selves the highest standard of honor and decorum, and each generation to aim at surpassing rather than falling below the attainments of its predecessors in all   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       63 those things which can alone truly ennoble either a race or a people. The ladies had been as much renowned for their beauty and graceful feminine accomplishments as the men for their stronger and more manly gifts, but talent, generosity, and a high-toned sense of honor and truth had been their common inheritance. The intimacy and friendship of the family had therefore been highly prized, and the word of an Ashton had never needed corroboration. The old family mansion, with its grand wide halls and staircases, its lofty ceilings and numerous guest- chambers, indicating the generous, open-hearted hos- pitality of its owners, was the pride of the country for many miles around; and Ashton Park, with its acres of finely cultivated fields, its beautifully laid off and tastefully adorned parks and gardens, was almost as much resorted to by sight-seers and parties of pleasure from the neighboring city, in pursuit of rest and recreation, as if it had been public property. The aspect of the abundant beauty and happy peace pro- duced by the luxuriant and beautiful display of ex- quisite and ever-blooming flowers, the verdure of the sloping lawns, and the graceful deer, and rare imported animals and birds and fowls of endless variety, mingling together in perfect harmony, and so tame, from     "    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, frequent harmless notice, as to submit to the nearest approach and closest scrutiny, could scarcely fail to call up. thoughts of that blessed promised time, when ' The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling together; and a little child shall lead them." For several generations back, only one son had sur- vived his father. Sometimes there had been one or two daughters left, who had been handsomely por- tioned, but without encroaching upon the great landed estate, which had remained long undivided, rather increasing than diminishing in extent, and becoming still more highly improved and beautified by each suc- cessive heir. With regard to the house and furniture, their aim had been to preserve as much as possible that air of antiquity which we naturally associate with the old castles in foreign lands, and the family portraits, taken abroad by the most distinguished artists of the day, marked the different epochs in the school of art, while the beauty, the stately grace and dignity, of the figures portrayed would have rendered them no un- fitting adornments for even a royal cabinet. The sons of the family had been always sent to Oxford, Cambridge, or to Trinity College, Dublin, to   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       65 take their degrees, and in many instances had mar- ried while there into some more or less remote branch of the original family stock, and returned with an increased reverence for all the old family traditions, habits, and characteristics. Judge Charles had been no exception in these respects.  Graduatiug at Trinity College, Dublin, his name stood amongst the ighest on its roll of honor, and even among his Irish associates he was conspicuous for his keen wit and genial humor, which endeared him very much to their warm clannish hearts. He married there his cousin, the beautiful Isabella Neville, the youngest of three sisters, all heiresses, but she the only beauty; and with a brilliant future opening before him, he returned home to enjoy to a rare extent the honorable esteem and affection of his fellow-citizens. For, while with noble pride and pleasurE he cherished the remem- brance Vf every traditionary record of unblemished family honor and integrity, and would have scorned the least approach in himself to a mean or petty action, the gracious courtesy of manner, which distinguished both his wife and himself, rendered them as much beloved as they were respected by all classes. Sorrow and bereavement came to them, however, as they are sure to come into every earthly household. Four little coffins had been borne to the old family vault, and 6*        E     "    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, the pattering of children's feet, with their merry laughing voices, had ceased to be heard along the wide halls and staircases; and in the comfortable home-like old nursery the little infantine cooing and crowing of a lovely baby's voice had also been stilled. And then Richard had been born, and all the tender yearning love and anxious care of his parents was poured out upon him in fourfold degree. He was scarcely more than arn infant when his mother died, leaving her husband inconsolable at the loss of the lovely and beloved wife of his youth and early man- hood, who, had they been permitted to share together the cares and sorrows of life's decline, as they had done its morning and noontide joys, would have re- mained in his eyes always young, beautiful, and bloom- ing. Nor did he, in spite of many advances made to him-with shame let the truth be spoken-by manoeu- vering papas on behalf of their portionless daughters, ever think of crowning with his love and homage any -other woman, but with increased ardor devoted him- self to his profession, and rose to still greater emi- nence at the -bar and on the bench; sufficient solace for his leisure hours being afforded him by the society of his little son and heir, in whom all his hopes and affections were now concentrated, and who, it was as- sumed, as a matter of course, had inherited all the   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       67 ancestral graces and virtues. But alas! the black sheep and the spotted and speckled kine will some- times make their appearance in the fairest and choicest flocks and herds; and the discovery was after a while slowly and gradually made, that the Ashton fold was to be no longer exempt, for Richard was-found to be as black a sheep as has often disfigurged any flock. Either nature, as if revenging herself for her pre- vious prodigality to the family, had in his case re- versed all her gifts, or else the poor boy suffered from the want of a faithful mother's wise and watchful guidance, and from his father's over-fond indulgence. He was a tall, bright-eyed, handsome boy, of easy and graceful address, with a quick mind and much natural readiness and fluency in speech; but the easy, plea- sant address was found to be the covering of a shallow, fickle, unsteady nature; and the fluent tongue, so ready with plausible excuses, and palliations, and pro- fessions, seemed to be utterly incapable of framing a simple, straightforward truth. He early showed a taste for low companions, who flattered him and wheedled him out of his money, teaching him to bet and to gamble, and to indulge every other vicious propensity. In the place of more im- proving studies, he devouied wild tales of romance and adventure, and as he grew to manhood lent a     68     HEA VENTWARD LED; OR, credulous ear to every new and startling theory, and to the wildest speculations which have excited and deluded the minds, of men of the present day. His father, wise and sagacious as he was in all other points, was slow to perceive the faults and failings of his only son. But at last the day came-and no member of his household could ever forget his anguish and mortifica- tion that day-when he first discovered that his "noble boy," as he had been wont to call him, had the habit of speaking untruthfully. For hours toge- ther he paced, with great angry strides, the long pic- ture gallery, his flushed face bowed, and his arms crossed behind him, exclaiming again and again, with passionate sorrow, as he would pause before one or another old portrait: "My God! my God! what have I done to bring this curse upon my head? That I should have handed down our good and honorable name-a proverb for truth and integrity-to this base, degenerate son 1" Then, at length, yielding to the pleadings of his love, palliating and softening as far as possible the offence, with great tears of agony standing in his eyes, he murmured: "Poor boy! poor misguided boy! ah! if his dear good mother had been spared it could never have beei thus! I must see to it; I must do   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       69 my duty better; we must correct this fault at once; something has been wrong; now, I will spare no pains to make him see how horrible it is for a man-a gen- tleman!-to be devoid of the first essential of a gen- tleman's character. I shall send him to his aunts in Ireland, I think, to be out of the way of bad compa- ny, and then in a few years I shall send him to sea; he has been reading voyages of discovery, and wants to go. Yes, I shall indulge him when he is older in this fancy. Among the honest tars, and on the broad free ocean, one must learn to love candor and truth." The visit to the aunts in Ireland was a very unsuc- cessful experiment, resulting in a total disgust on the part of the old ladies for the character of their nephew, whose name they could scarcely bear to hear mentioned afterwards; and on the part of the boy in such weariness and dislike of their formal, old-fash- ioned habits, and strict notions of propriety, that he was rarely in the house with them, but wandered off in pursuit of more congenial companions, and was soon familiarized with all the haunts of the most reckless and dissipated youths of Dublin; so that from his residence there he gleaned only fresh germs of evil, which were sown in the all too productive soil of his heart, and bore abundant fruits in his after life. The sea-faring followed-but soon he tired of that     70     HEAA VENTWARD LED; OR,. as of every other settled employment, and returned home after a few voyages, to enjoy the title of Cap- tain, which was given him, in the first place, in play- ful satire upon the evident pride and pleasure with which he always recalled his life at sea, and the won- derful narrations he gave of his gallant exploits on board ship. Appearing to regard it as his just due, he graciously received and adopted it, and so it be- came fixed and settled. His marriage occasioned the utmost surprise and astonishment throughout the large circle of friends and acquaintances of the family.' Rosa Morton, the sweet, guileless young girl, whose devoted love he suc- ceeded in winning, and whom he persuaded to marry him, was an orphan, with few relations, and not well off; but she was very lovely, refined, intelligent, and accomplished, and possessed a heart capable of heroic devotion and steadfast trust, as her history proved. The marriage was regarded on every account as one of those inexplicable results for which no satisfactory explanation could, by any possibility, be given. Per- sons took different views of it, according to their different theories of life. Some thought it s'"ange that with his wealth and position, to say nothing of his previous habits and tastes, he should not have sought a more worldly and ambitious alliance, and did   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       71 not doubt she had married him for a home and settle- ment. Others marvelled that so sweet and refined a lady should be able to endure his society. No one predicted much happiness for her, so she was gener- ally pitied and much stared at when she appeared as his bride. Even the father, so patient and forbearing with him in all his vagaries, and who was always trying to look at his conduct in the most favorable light, was evidently astonished; and when he welcomed her, for the first time, as his daughter, to her new home beneath his roof, he looked with tender pity and amazement into the sweet, innocent, smiling face, which met his with so much hopeful, joyous confidence. He rejoiced, however, in the hope which it gave him of his son's happy reformation; and in honor of the occasion gave a grand wedding entertainment, sending invitations far and near, to all his friends and acquaintances. Music and dancing welcomed the prodigal home, as of yore. In this case, however, the prodigal was neither an humble nor a penitent one. Not having yet wasted all his substance, he was but pausing in the midst of his riotous living to return to it again, as the result proved, with additional zest; for, in a short time, he began once more to absent himself from home     72     HEA VENWARD LED; OR, for weeks and months at a time, upon various specious pretexts, which he gave to his gentle, trusting wife. Months, almost years, were spent in the large cities of our own and of foreign countries, where he pro- fessed to be investigating questions connected with the various fashionable delusions and humbugs of the da, to which, by turns, he declared himself a convert. Mesmerism and spiritualism became each successively his favorite, themes, and he expended vast amounts, both of time and money, in disseminating their delu- sive teachings, and in the indulgence of their atten- dant vices; in compensation for which he wrote lengthy letters home, full of sanguine promises and glowing descriptions of the scientific discoveries to be made, and of the wonderful transformation to ensue therefrom, of this dark, dull, old work-a-day world, into a new and glorious sphere, where miraculous de- grees of light and knowledge, and freedom from all social bondage and conventional trammels, should be enjoyed. His young wife, meanwhile, though she uttered no word of complaint, and was never less tender and de- voted in her affection, grew by degrees less bright and girlish, and more thoughtful, wise and patient-looking. Gradually withdrawing from general society, she de- voted herself almost exclusively to the performance l  '                  -  - " - I    THE TWO BEQUESTS.        73 of her religious duties, to works of charity and bene- volence, and to her home cares and joys. In these things she found all her comfort and consolation. Carefully she trained her little ones in the paths of holiness and peace, and tenderly she sought to solace the declining years of the dear, noble-hearted father, who, bowed with sorrow more than age, was hastening, while still scarcely past the prime of life, weary and broken in heart, to his grave and to the rest eternal for which he longed. Taught, gently and lovingly, by his sweet daughter-in-law, he had learned to bow himself meekly at the feet of the Divine Cross- Bearer, and to esteem less highly the treasures of earthly wisdom and the results of philosophical specu- lation than the simple knowledge of, and a childlike trust in, Him, "the full, perfect, and sufficient sacri- fice, oblation, and satisfaction for the sins of the whole world." When he felt his end approaching, Judge Ashton requested that his son might be summoned to bid him farewell, which was immediately done, and he arrived in time to receive his father's last counsel and bless- ing, and to hear his oft-repeated prayers and ejacula- tions on his behalf. He seemed to be much moved and full of repentant sorrow, as he wept and wrung his hands and accused himself of failure in filial duty. 7     74     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, With a look of tender love, compassion, and forgive- ness, the dying father blessed him; and, laying in his the hand of his wife, entreated him in future to be more tender in his love for her, and more watchful and thoughtful in shielding fronm anxious care the noble heart so fully and entirely his own. And then, as his eyes closed upon earth, with all its darkness and its sorrowful burdens, to him were opened the golden portals of the City of Light, where all mys- teries would be solved, and full consolation be minis- tered for life's bitterest griefs and disappointments. And with every pompous ceremonial, as well as with every tribute of the heartfelt respect and veneration which was felt for him wherever his name and charac- ter were known, the remains of the weary pilgrim were borne to the tomb of his forefathers. Richard assumed the place of his successor, and his hereditary rights as heir to the great estate. He began by immediately restricting persons from in- truding upon the grounds, and by placing printed warnings on the gates against all kinds of trespasses. Consequently, there were committed on the place, during the short time he exercised his authority there, more trespasses than had ever been known before; and a mere show of outward respect was soon substi- tuted for the real, cordial, heartfelt esteem and vene-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       75 ration so freely rendered hitherto to the proprietors of Ashton Park. When his father's will, however, was produced, Richard Ashton was filled with amazement and dis- gust. In the first place, he would fain have dimin- ished the large sums left in charity; but what was most embittering was the provision made regarding the old homestead. In order that the children of his ' poor prodigal," as the father had of late begun to style his spendthrift son, might not be reduced to poverty and destitution, "The Park" was never to be subject to any mortgages for his son's debts, but should descend unencumbered to the heir or heirs, as the case might be, and on no account to be sold until every child should be of age; and if sold, then the proceeds should belong exclusively to the child or to the children in equal shares. In addition to this large tract of valuable land, the Judge left much personal property, stocks, bonds, &c. These were to go to the son after deducting a few legacies; but his father advised him to settle half upon his wife, that by her wise and prudent manage- ment there might always be a sufficient income saved to keep up in comfort the home for herself and little ones; reminding him, at the same time, that the pro- perty left by his mother had been given into his     76     HEA VENWARD LED; OR, hands at his marriage, and had, in the very short time since, all been spent. It was, indeed, truly wonderful how much money Captain Ashton managed to spend each year; and yet he was always in debt, and eagerly trying to get hold of more. He had already borrowed large sums on the land, which he had assumed, as a matter of course, was to be one day his own. Angry and dis- pleased at finding that he had deceived himself in this matter, he soon collected as much ready money as he could, and took himself off in dudgeon, without heed- ing his father's recommendation regarding the divi- sion with his wife, upon whom, now deprived of her kind father-in-law's support and counsel, devolved all the care of the household and farm, which she was often taxed severely to find the means of maintain- ing, unused as she was to business and the manage- ment of money matters. The promised remittances from her husband-to be spared from his own lavish and self-indulgent expenditures-were often delayed, and not unfrequently failed altogether to arrive, ex- cuses and apologies being profusely sent instead. Yet, when he returned, as he did occasionally, worn out and weary with long excitement, and suffering in his nerves and general health, as well as in his spirits, from the reaction, he was sure always to receive a   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       " warm, loving welcome, and to find sympathy, con- fidence, and trust ready to be given him in abundant measure. Everything that wise, patient, forbearing love could suggest was done to win him back to his home and all its pure enjoyments. His children saw so little of him that they scarcely knew him, except through their mother's loving re- presentations. And her constant aim was to cultivate in them dutiful love and honor for him, and to teach them by every tender endearment and sweet, watch- ful, childish attention to try to make his home and fireside attractive. Knowing none of his faults, they never thought of attaching blame to his actions, and only tenderly pitied him when they saw him look troubled and sick and worn, as he did when away from the scenes of dissipation. lie would not have had a human heart could he have remained untouched by his wife's noble con- stancy and fidelity, not to the letter only, but to the spirit of the solemn vows they had mutually taken to "Iove, honor, and cherish in sickness and in health, and for better or worse, forsaking all others to cleave only one to the other." And doubtless the lamentations and self-accusations and promises of amendment, with which he sometimes overwhelmed her, were all sincere at the time. But the "habits of the heart " are very 7*     78     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, strong, and our own power to resist temptation very weak when once we have fallen under the dominion of sinful passions. And so, when, in its turn, the monotony of home-life had wearied him, he was easily induced to yield to the cravings of his heart for his accustomed haunts and scenes of amusement, regarding which, his respect for his pure, high-minded wife led him at least to seek to keep her in ignorance. 'One of the greatest griefs Mrs. Ashton had ever been called to bear-greater, even, than the sorrow she had felt when giving up a little one-year-old dar- ling to the Good Shepherd-was the separation from her little daughter Isabella, before she had reached her third year, to which she was compelled to submit. The child's great-aunts in Ireland, the Misses Neville, having heard of her marvellous beauty and sur- prisingly precocious wit, and because she bore her grandmother's name, whose place in their hearts they designed the little one should fill, begged to adopt her for their own, promising to bequeath to her all their property, which they wished to leave to one of the descendants of their beloved sister without its passing through the hands of their nephew, whom they regarded with the utmost aversion, as a disgrace to his name and family. The mother begged earnestly to be allowed at least to keep her child with her until her habits   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       79 and principles were formed; but the old ladies urged in reply their great desire to have the pleasure of training her, from the very first, to suit themselves, and said that as they were growing old already, they might not long be capable of enjoying the wished-for pleasure of watching the development of her heart and mind under their own teaching, and modelled, as they proposed, after the pattern of her grandmother. They did not know Mrs. Ashton, and in spite of all representations regarding her high character as a lovely Christian wife and mother, which had been made to them by the Judge, they always remained in a measure prejudiced against her, because she had married their nephew, whom they persisted in declar- ing it was impossible that any refined and right- minded lady should be willing to live with as his wife; so they were less moved by her entreaties on this point than they might otherwise have been, and excused their pertinacity by saying she would have quite enough to do to take care of her other children, and to keep her scapegrace husband from going with more certainty to destruction than he had been doing for these many years back. Captain Ashton, who loved money as dearly as he lavishy spent it, insisted that the child should go and "have her fortune made," as he expressed it. With %*     80     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, trembling fingers and with tearful eyes, therefore, the stitches were taken to fit up the little wardrobe for the long journey, and then the father carried her off, proud of the little one's beauty and graceful vivacity, which attracted attention and admiration wherever they went, while the poor mother was left to pray, in the solitude of her chamber, for meekness and for submissive faith, as well as for the power to shut her heart against every inclination to think 'hardly of the husband whom she had sworn to love and honor; regarding even this arbitrary and cruel action as it appeared in the eyes of his own father, and every one else who knew anything of the affair; and from this, as from all her other trials, she came forth refined and purified, her spirit becoming more and more deeply and thoroughly imbued with the essence of that Divine charity which thinketh no evil, but believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things, and which never faileth. These years of patient waiting, watching, and hoping were not, however, to last for ever. The morning of full and perfect realization at length drew near, for the earthly tabernacle was gradually tottering to de- cay and preparing to give place to the "house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens." Captain Ashton, who was, as usual, away during   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       81 her illness, did not reach home in time to witness her calm and peaceful end. All was over before he came. The cold hands were folded on the heart which, by his neglect, and his sinful life, he had so often pierced, but which had never, he knew, throbbed with one disloyal or unloving emotion in return. The traces of care which had begun to line the sweet and patient, but worn face, were all smoothed now; nothing remained but a look of calm, heavenly peace. Her blessing, and her heartfelt, tenderest love, she left for her dear husband, when, after watching anxiously the door of her chamber as it was several times opened and shut again without his expected entrance, she found she should be called away be- fore he came. When asked if she had no request to make regarding her children, she answered, as she looked around upon them, with a smile of unspeak- ably tender sweetness-"I leave them to our Hea- venly Father." Then, turning to her dear pastor, good Dr. Blackstone, she said-"I know you will help them, as you have done me." Among her papers was found a letter addressed, "To my beloved husband, to be read after the wife, who so fondly loved him, shall have gone to that home where she hopes he will in due time follow her." The contents were never seen by any other eyes F     82     HEAVENWARD LED; OR,. than his for whom it was written; but to his dying day the husband wore it next his heart, though no one would have suspected him of bearing such a talis- man about his person; and it certainly did not re- strain him in his evil courses.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       83 CHAPTER THRD. ELLEN ASHTON AND HER MOTHER'S BEQUEST. jTpy ROM  earliest childhood Ellen Ashton had learned to regard the Ever-Present, All-See- ing God as her Father in Heaven, and so to love Him with the full, trusting heart of a docile child. This she had been taught, not only by the precepts and counsels of her mother's lips, but still more effectively by the influence of her example, that unconscious influence which we are, each' of us, for ever exerting either for weal or for woe, whether our sphere be great or small upon those around us. In her young heart the battle against falsehood, self- ishness, and pride, as well as countless other depr*i- ties belonging to poor, fallen human nature, had been comparatively easy, because carried on before habit had fastened around her the rivets of its strong chain. The daily discharge of little household cares and duties, and kindly offices of love, filled up her spare moments, and occupied her thoughts with the needs of others, and thus taught her self-forgetfulness;     84     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, while with her earnest gaze fixed upon the divine pat- tern given us in the humap life of the Son of God, as the only true standard by which to judge of her own progress in holiness, she was daily growing in sweet humility and in pure, unselfish love, being ever ready to pass over and excuse the faults and failings of others, especially when manifested towards herself, and equally quick to see all that was praiseworthy, good, and lovely, in even the most unattractive and unlovable of her acquaintances.- Having thoroughly possessed her soul in peace, it was not easy for any untoward event or circumstance to disturb the cheer- ful, even, tranquil flow of the current of her inner life. Her very ignorance of the world, and of the evil of men's hearts, kept her from suspecting their motives, and made her full of generous, hopeful confidence and truth. With regard to her father, her ignorance was espe- ci ly helpful. Never having been long enough in his society to become, in the least, familiar with his habits and character, and being influenced in her view of their mutual relations by what she understood of her relation to the Divine Parent, she never thought of doubting or questioning her earthly parent's love and tender care for her, and had very exalted ideas of the dutiful, reverent love which she was bound to cherish in   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       85 her heart for him, and to manifest on every fitting occa- sion, both by word and deed. Accordingly it was not difficult to overcome the momentary pain she had suf- fered from his stern, unloving manner, by attributing to herself misunderstanding, and perhaps too much self-engrossment, but to him only over-fatigue and nervous exhaustion; and so to recover promptly the grateful feelings of pleasure with which she had wel- comed his return. In all his wanderings since her mother's death her heart had followed him with feelings of purest love and pity; fully believing the accounts which he had written of his constrained absence, she had been pray- ing and longing with tenderest concern for him to be permitted to come home to enjoy its rest, and the soothing care and devoted love she was prepared to lavish upon him. Such feelings her beloved mother had, during her life, tried earnestly to cultivate in the heart of each little one, for their absent parent; and not many days before her last illness confined her to her bed, she had placed in Ellen's hand a written paper, sealed and tied with a silken thread. It was labelled on the out- side: "A Mother's Dying Bequest to her Children," and within contained these words: "To our Heavenly Father I gladly and trustingly 8     86     HEAVEATWARD LED; OR, commit myself; and into his safe keeping do I now surrender the precious treasures with which He, for a time, intrusted me here-my beloved husband and little ones. May He receive them for ever into his loving favor and tender care, guarding them against sin and every evil, and of his bountiful goodness sup- plying- all their necessities, until he shall see fit to receive them into the mansions of glory, and to teach them that 'new song' which only the Redeemer can sing. Having neither houses nor lands, nor gold nor silver, to leave my dear children, I can give and be- queath to them only a heart full of prayerful love, and the unfinished work from which their mother is called away-a simple round of daily unobtrusive duties, and of kindly offices one to the other. To Charlie, my eldest son, I commend especially his sis- ters and little brother, hoping that he will be watchful over them, and help them as far as he is able in all things, temporal and spiritual. I entreat all my little ones to love each other, but especially to love and honor their dear father, striving to lighten every bur- den for him and to cheer his path on earth-to be obedient, tender, thoughtful, and unwearying in their love. Remember that by the same sweet name of Father you are permitted to address the Great and Glorious Giver of all good things, and to come to him   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       87 freely and confidently. Never, therefore, forget to pray one for the other, and for the dear earthly father, that he may be joined to his little household flock ere long, never again to be parted from them; and when the heavenly portals shall be opened to receive one from the little loving band, the sweet assurance may be given that the parting and the weeping shall endure only for the night, but jy cometh with the morning; that the dawning of the eternal day shall summon each one of our darlings, though it should even be from the ends of the earth, into the presence of our God, to be owned as his dear children. To you, Ellen, my precious, loving daughter, I leave es- pecially your dear father and the little children-a precious legacy may they prove-treasures not for earth only, but to be jewels hereafter in your heavenly crown. But if you would win for yourself this great reward, how deep and strong and unwearying must be your love for them, as well as your patience, meek- ness, forbearance, and faith! Without pure, genuine love, you need never hope to draw another's heart to yours. Let that, therefore, ever be the key by which you seek to gain admittance to their confidence. And think, my child, how much this love will enrich your own heart. Pour out the fragrant stream lavishy; all the more speedily will it be replenished from the     88     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, exhaustless fountains of eternal love; so be not so much mindful to see if others make return, as watchful lest the slightest impediment steal in and hinder the full, strong current, flowing from your own heart. And when we shall all meet hereafter, where all hidden things are brought to light, we shall see how impossi- ble it has been for one atom of true, pure love, to be lost or wasted. Farewell, my precious children! Mother will wait to welcome each one, and take them once more to her loving heart in that world where there is no more parting, nor sorrow, nor sighing, nor anything that hurteth or defileth. My little Isabella is always near my heart, though absent from my sight. I long to take the tender lamb once more in my arms; but when next we meet it will be in the green pastures, and beside the still waters, whither the Good Shep- herd will lead us all." Ellen could never forget the heavenly look on her mother's sweet, pale face, as she had said,' in handing this paper to her: "It is my last will and testament, dear child. Put it away carefully, for a little while; I know you will doubly prize your mother's words when she is no longer in your sight." To Charlie and herself the whole world contained nothing so precious as this paper written by their    THE TWO BEQUESTS.       89 dear mother's weak, trembling fingers; while she, having calmly looked death in the face, was without fear or doubt waiting and expecting his approach. No earthly treasure could have brought to her children the strength and comfort which they found'in her precious words through all their after life. Ellen's nimble skilful fingers were always busy with some little piece of delicate dainty work, in every style of which she excelled, and through which she managed to be ever conveying little evidences of her love and thoughtful remembrance to all about her. And now she made two beautifully fair copies of this bequest, placing around each of them a margin of exquisitely illuminated Scripture designs. One she placed in a silken cover and gave to Charlie when he left home for college. The other she framed and hung in her father's room just where his eye could catch it, as he woke in the morning, and could rest upon it at night the last thing as he was about to close them in sleep. And to this chamber she came morning and evening with George and Rosa for their little family prayer together. She had often read to them their mother's bequest, and they loved to ask her all manner of questions about it and a out their mother, whether she saw them and was grieved every single time they did wrong, and whether they should certainly know her 8*      90     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, in heaven. If she would have the very same face she had here, &c., &c. They were good, obedient children, and loved her so dearly that it was sweet indeed to take any amount of trouble or care for them; and this sweet innocent love and companion- -ship with them kept her heart always fresh and full, and capable of enjoying keenly the least little inno- cent pastime. Then Charlie, her twin brother, was such a dear, dear friend and comforter, as well as brother. They understood each other perfectly, and he helped her so kindly and skilfully out of every little perplexity when he was at home, making her studies all plain and simple and easy to comprehend; while she in her turn was always trying to send him cheering words to keep him from being anxious while away. And with her fairy fingers she made all man- ner of little articles for his comfort and for his toilet, and gladly denied herself every superfluity that his wardrobe might be the better supplied. She always told him minutely the little details of their home life which she knew would interest him, only keeping back such things as would be likely to make him anxious or sad, as when the expected and needful supplies of money from their father were delayed or withheld; and she was obliged, as she had been more than once, to sell the work of her own hands to procure the means   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       91 to meet the demands of the household. To these things she never alluded, if possible to avoid his con- stant questioning. She was writing to him at the time of Isabella's visit to her chamber on the night when the former had been so disturbed and perplexed at her calm happy manner, indicating, as the younger sister feared, a want of true sensibility and proper self-respect. But as her letter will show, Ellen was far from suspecting the thoughts which were passing through Isabella's mind. "How I have wished for my own dear brother, to-day, to participate in the happiness of our family reunion!" she wrote. "It makes me so very very happy and thankful to-night to feel that our long- absent ones are once more gathered with us under -our own roof. Were you only here to complete the circle, I should have nothing left to wish for. On such an occasion I think our dear mother's spirit must hover near us and rejoice in our great happiness. "I trust you will come very soon: I will ask father again in the morning to let me write you word to do so. -I said something to him about it this evening, but he was not well, and very tired, and gave me no answer. In the morning, however, I hope he will be rested and feel better. "How very sad it must make him to come home     92     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, here and miss our dear mother from her accustomed place! And how hard we must all try to cheer and comfort him!  I am impatient for you to see our beautiful and charming sister Isabella. I never saw a face that I could even compare with hers, and shall never be weary of studying its deep and ever-varying shades of expression. There is something touchingly sad and interesting in it when she is grave and thought- ful; but this gives place so suddenly to a marvellous brightness and quick intelligent interest in whatever topic you call her attention to, that you are surprised by the rapid transition, and find it difficult to say when she is most beautiful and lovable. In her bearing there is much grace and dignity and sweet- ness; and I feel sure that in her heart there is a deep spring of tenderness and love. Although just at first there is a certain something in her manner which seems to hold in check the spontaneous out- flow of her feelings. Nothing like coldness or reserve,  but just self-restraint enough to make one prize her slightest word or look of afection. She is not an impulsive gushing child as I am, but a wise, thoughtful, self-possessed woman, full of candor and truth; and inspires every one immediately with a feeling not of love only, but of respect, security, and trust also. '    Old Mammy is completely fascinated by her sweet   THE TWO BEQUESTS.        93 winning ways as well as Rosa and George. And father's face brightens whenever she approaches. He is so proud of her that he seems hardly sometimes to realize she is his own young daughter, but treats her with the deference he might be expected to show if she were indeed what he calls her, 'My Queen.' And he loves to consult with her and confide in her. In short they are beautiful together, and would form a lovely subject for an allegorical or mythological painting. I can't tell, yet, what it should be called, but will think it over and decide. And some day you will find what a wonderful inspiration they have given to the genius of your little artist-sister. I cannot write more to-night, dear brother, though my heart is so full it would be hard for my pen to express all I should like to say. Little Rosa is not well, and I have to keep the light shaded for fear of disturbing her. She is beginning now to stir a little, so good-night. God, our loving Father, bless and keep my own dear brother now and always." Before retiring to her night's rest, Ellen had a few questions to put to her heart respecting the motives and feelings which had governed her actions during the day; but this was done with the full assurance that He to whose sight all these things were more clearly revealed than to her own partial view, under-     "    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, stood her weakness and infirmity, and while noting many imperfections which escaped her own partial scrutiny, yet took account also of every feeble, even, it might be, only half-formed, desire to cleanse more perfectly and to make more meet for him to dwell in, the temple of her body which he had promised to make the habitation of His Spirit. It was sweet to turn away from her own sinful nature to the contem- plation of his perfect holiness, and to commit herself and all her dearly loved family to the safe keeping of him whom she knew to be infinite in wisdom, power, love, and goodness-her own and her mother's cove- nant-keeping God; and to fall asleep lulled by the confidence of the sweet Psalmist, with whom she could say, "I will both lay me down in peace and sleep, for thou, Lord, only makest me dwell in safety." Meanwhile, how was it, on this same night, with the father towards whom there existed such different feelings in the hearts of his two lovely daughters? He had been, indeed, a most miserable man all day. The accusing voice of conscience had loudly con- demned him, as to be sure it had very often before done, for his selfish neglect and indifference towards his gentle wife and helpless little children. And he did sorely miss the kind loving face which had met him on his previous returns, and the tender, patient,   THE TWO BEQVESTS.       95 forbearing words which had soothed him when he gave vent to his remorseful lamentations. He could not now make the poor atonement he had been wont to do, acknowledge his faults and make profuse apo- logies, and professions of better purposes and plans. Too late now for all this, and yet he had never needed such comfort as much before. Years of dis- sipation and wild feverish excitement were telling rapidly upon him; he was losing his natural vivacity more and more, and had long ceased to be the pleasant, easy, gay fellow whose companionship had been eagerly sought by the class of associates which he had chosen for himself. Though not naturally a hard or stern man, he was growing sullen and morose, and vented his uncomfortable feelings of self-reproach frequently in strict and hard requirements from others. Indeed all his' life his intended reformations had begun and ended pretty much in trying to reform some one else; generally, too, one who stood especially in little need of his efforts. To-day he had roused himself from his habitual indolence to see and reprove imagi- nary faults of a like description in his children. And to-night he was realizing how harsh and tyrannical his conduct had been, and was bitterly conscious how he must be driving their love from him. His favorite child he had already alienated and es     96     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, tranged, and she had shamed and humbled him again and again by her severe but virtuous abhorrence of and reproofs for his wrong doings. Until at last she had even given him his choice, either to re- nounce for ever the evil companions with whom he was rushing on to his own destruction, and return with her to his deserted children and fireside, or be renounced by her for ever. He had already relinquished, years *   before, all right to exercise authority over her, and she was capable of fulfilling her threat of giving up even the name he bore, and ceasing in any manner to identify herself with him-while he, byv forcing her to such a step, should not only lose her entirely, whom, with all his weakness and all his wickedness, he did really almost idolize, but also the large fortune she had received from his aunts, which she had allowed him freely to use, and which seemed essential to his very existence now. So long had he accustomed himself to an indolent, careless, self-indulgent habit of squandering money on every useless trifle, that death seemed preferable to him rather than to be com- pelled to work, or to stint himself in his expenditures. Here, then, in obedience to his daughter's will, he must remain, in spite of every restless, ill-at-ease longing to rush off again and drown all thought, and care, and self-reproach in deeper and deeper draughts   THE TWO BEQUESTS.        97 of the cup of profligacy and vice. He had slept little on the first night of his return, and when he did fall into a disturbed and troubled doze, the still pale face, the sealed eyelids, and folded hands, over which he had wept and lamented when last in that chamber, had come again and again to visit him reproachfully. No wonder the warm, impulsive, guileless fondness of his sweet, innocent children had found no response in the heart so ill at ease with itself, and that stern pre- cepts and strict requirements from them had been the outlet of all his restless, sickly feelings of dissatisfac- tion, as well as a cloak under which, perhaps, he hoped to hide his own deficiencies. During his walk with his two daughters he had been quite as conscious as Isabella of the notice they at- tracted; and, mingled with the bitterness occasioned by the evident contempt and aversion for himself, came, like a sudden panic, the fear that this admira- tion for his beautiful daughter would lead to her being beguiled away from him. It was by no means an agreeable idea to ,him that either of his daughters should marry, and introduce, what he called, a prying, meddling son-in-law into his household; but for Isa- bella he was especially anxious, and had determined to speak with her on the subject, and try to arouse her suspicion of all who sought to p iy her any at- 9        a     98     IIEA VEN WARD LED; OR, tentionby warning her of the schemes of base fortune- hunters who would be sure to beset her path. He knew how much she would despise and hate such base meanness, and trusted very much to the effect his words would produce in opening her eyes to the ways of the world-forgetting how effectually he had already opened them with regard to himself. This had been his purpose when he had requested an interview with her after banishing Ellen from the room. But she had turned him aside, all uncon- sciously, from his intended topic by her spirited at- tack upon him, which had made it more than he could do to defend himself, without venturing to offer any counsel regarding her own affairs. When she, had closed the parlor door after her, he remembered for the first time since their conversation commenced the in- tended admonition; but not for the world would he have recalled her then. - He must wait for some better opportunity. Taking up one of his favorite pamph- lets on spiritualism, he tried to divert his mind and to forget the exciting scene through which he had just passed, but the book soon dropped from his hand, and with deep lines furrowing his brow, he pursued the old unpleasant train of thought, until at length he rose wearily and retired to his own chamber. But having little hope of soon falling asleep, he glanced 9   THE TWO BEQUESS.       99 round for some object which might engross or interest his thoughts. Was it God's Spirit directing him to the "writing on the wall," or mere chance which led his eye to fall upon Ellen's beautifully executed copy of "A Mo- ther's Dying Bequest?" He had known that his wife loved him truly and devotedly, and had often before been pricked in his conscience by her steadfast confi- dence and trust. Yet now this touching evidence of a love which had proved stronger than death com- pletely overcame him. How tenderly he was here commended to his children's love! How skilfully was every motive employed which could enlist their affec- tion, obedience, and respect towards one who had cer- tainly done nothing himself to make the natural tie between them more sacred or binding. There was no syllable of complaint or hint of imperfection in him, nor even any doubt, apparently, on her mind of his finally gaining admittance into that pure and peaceful abode, whither he could not but feel fully assured that her sweet and saintly spirit had entered. It was with a feeling approaching awe that he realized himself so fondly loved, so fully forgiven, and so trusted in and hoped for to the very end; and, min- gled with his bitter and remorseful grief, there began to steal into his mind a sweet, though only faint and     100    HEAVENWFARD LED; OR, glimmering, hope that he might yet repent and be forgiven, and permitted to meet her once more, and thank her, as he had never done on earth, for her saintly love and patience; and to see her dear face, not worn and pale and sad, as it had grown through love and care and pity for him; but joyous, un- clouded, and radiant as when first the wealth of her trustinfg heart had been placed in his keeping; a half- uttered prayer was more than once on his lips; at length, burying his face in his hands, he stammered out-"God grant it, God grant it for Christ's sake!" And his children! in what a new light appeared the little ones whom she had trained! As he looked back upon the past day, every little loving word and act recurred to his memory with new and deep signifi- cance. How well had Ellen, the sweet, patient vic- tim, as he now regarded her, of his ill humor and discontent, followed the injunctions of, and kept the trust committed to her, in that "Dying Bequest!" As his eye now went around the room, he observed for the first time a thousand little tokens of her love and thought for him, and tender regard for his com- fort. He made many earnest resolutions of future amendment, which soothed, at least for the time, his remorse, and then the short time since forlorn, and, as he thought, unloved man, fell asleep with a strange,   atHE TWO BEQUSTS.       101 new consciousness of being surrounded by an atmo- sphere of love, respect, and confidence, of which he knew himself to be wholly unworthy, but yet felt to be inexpressibly sweet and comforting. The few words in which Ellen had ventured to express an opinion respecting her father's state of mind certainly indicated a nearer approach to a true reading of his thoughts than the'wise and penetrating Isabella, with all her dearly-bought knowledge of human nature and shrewdness of discernment, had been able to reach- perhaps because the simple child had trusted solely to love's mysterious intuitions; and hereafter we shall all doubtless find that in proportion as we have been governed by divine charity in the judgments we have formed of our fellow-men, the more nearly have we approached to seeing them with the eye of God, our loving Father. 9*     102    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, CHAPTER FOURTH. THE AUNTS, AND THEIR BEQUEST TO ISABELLA. ' ISABELLA'S early life had been a suffi- ciently unusual one, to account for the rare development of her mental powers, as well as for the premature formation of her whole character. Her aunts, the two Miss Nevilles, were good, worthy gentlewomen, very rigid in their notions of propriety, exclusive in their social relations, and very strong and inflexible in their prejudices and opinions. When Isabella, in her third year, was brought to them, they had insisted upon their nephew, her father, signing a paper, drawn up in legal form and properly witnessed, whereby he for ever relin- quished all right to exercise over her the authority and control of a parent or guardian, and gave her en- tirely into their keeping as their own child and heir; that they might make what arrangements they saw fit in providing suitable guardians for herself and her property, should they both die before she was of age or married.   THE 'TWO BEQUESTS.       103 Captain Ashton had been very much insulted at this proposition when it was first made, and, indeed, always resented it in his heart; but finding that the great Neville estate could be secured to his child in no other way, had at length complied with their "singular requirement," as he always called it; and Isabella was received by her aunts into the place in their hearts and home, which had once been filled by their younger sister, to whose separation from them they had never been reconciled. Their house in Old Dublin had once been one of the social and literary centres of that time-honored city; but there, as else- where, the tide of population had moved upward. One and then another venerable institution of learn- ing or art had fallen into disuse or been destroyed to give place to some modern upstart structure, designed -for more vulgar, money-making purposes. And so the old ladies, and their great comfortable stone house, had been left in solitary grandeur. The house stood, as if in sullen pride, far back from the streets and shops, on a high enclosed terrace of the richest and most faultlessly kept green sward. Everything, indeed, within that stately enclosure gave evidence of a strict reign of precise order and neatness rarely to be found anywhere, but especially in reck- less, warm, generous, careless old Ireland; and the     104    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, old ladies felt themselves to be as much elevated above their new neighbors, in social refinement and intellectual culture, as was their proud old homestead in contrast with the neighboring habitations. Clinging with fondness to every vestige of the past, they shook their heads mournfully over the spirit of progressive degeneracy which, though to an American mind would surely have seemed full slow and deliberate, to them appeared to be rapidly hastening the old country on to its ruin and downfall.        , Their social intercourse was confined to a small, select circle of old friends whom they visited at stated periods during the year, and to the little par- ties of literary or musical acquaintances whom they gathered about them in their drawing-room occasion- ally, with the more frequent visits of their friend Mr. Roberts, the old curate, who spent at least two even- ings out of every week with them, enjoying the strong tea and bread and butter for the old ladies' sakes, but' relishing for his own, still more, the substantial viands and hot punch which never failed to follow after the games of cards, draughts, backgammon, or whatever might have been the amusement for the long winter evening, combined with discussions on politics, science (in a very diluted form), or some leading topic of the day. From such sources, and from the magazines and   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       105 periodicals, they kept their stock of knowledge replen- ished as regards the outside world and its perpetually changing customs and fashions, against which they had rigidly set their faces as they were never weary of declaring. In fine weather the old yellow chariot made its appearance at the street-door, drawn by a couple of sleek old bay fillies in shining harness, and the good ladies took their drive, accompanied by little black Pedro, their pet terrier, through Phoenix Park, to old Clontarf Castle, or along the bay shore. Besides the inevitable terrier, room was always made for a large basket, containing a few picture- books and primers and a right bountiful supply of biscuit and ginger-bread, and sometimes clothing, to be distributed to the little beggarly urchins, who never failed now to be on the watch for the friendly vehicle, and to surround it as soon as it came in sight, crying out their wants in a sort of sing-song, whining tone, which they would keep up, following close on the wheels of the chariot, until the supply being ex- hausted, Patrick McCleod, the coachman, receiving a signal from within, would wave his great carriage- whip in a circle threateningly, and shout out at the top of his voice: "Be to your homes, now, ye howl- ing brats! Can't ye see, without even an eye in your head, there's no more at all for ye? Off with /     106    HEA VENWARID LED; OR ye quick, or Pat McCleod's the boy 'll be afther you, an making ye give back a dale more'n the great ladies has-given ye. God bless 'em for caring at all for your dirty faces!" If this failed to disperse the dirty little ragged crowd-as, however, it seldom did-he would take up a large stone and make a feint of throwing it into their midst, while all the time he was careful to keep it held tightly in his great, brawny hand; and as soon as they began to scamper a good-humored grin of triumph would overspread his broad, honest face, as with a knowing wink ai Dick O'Connor, the footman, he shook his head, saying: "Och, now! an wasn't that the saft persuasion for them as couldn't mind words?" The old ladies gave away, besides, liberal supplies of money and clothing each year to the poor; and they went duly, on Sunday morning, to the cathedral, sat in their ancestral family pew, and followed the curate and choir with precision through all the devo- tional exercises for the day; listened attentively to the very short sermon usually preached there; and on their return home read their quantum of sermons or other pious reading, and then spent the rest of the day in relaxation, either with music or with some light, pleasant secular publications, feeling fully satis-  ,   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       107 fied that, let who might wander from the good old paths of virtue, rectitude, and propriety, they cer- tainly discharged all the claims which God or man could make upon their time or their money, and were blessed in having a household which could be held up as a model of sobriety, honesty, order, neatness, and economy. And, dear me, how very comfortable they must have felt in their own minds! The two old ladies, with their servants and depend- ants, belonged to an ardent mutual-admiration society; and it was good to see how smoothly and harmoni- ously their little domestic menage was carried on- each party in turn complimenting and applauding the rest. Miss Katharine, the eldest of the two sisters, de- voted her time principally to books, music, birds, and flowers, and felt that her opinion on all these subjects was worthy of great regard; while Miss Matilda, the younger, was strong and emphatic upon everything relating to business accounts, domestic economy and management. She carried on the family affairs with undisputed authority and to the great delight and admiration of the more delicate and gentle Miss Katharine; but being a person of very decided opin- ions of her own on all subjects, she did not confine     108     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, herself so exclusively to her own ground as her sister did, but very often made encroachments into the field of literature. Consequently, Miss Katharine and herself would fall into lengthy debates and warm discussions, which ended not unfrequently in being carried to the curate for final decision. This placed that complaisant old gentleman oftentimes in a dangerous and delicate position; but, with genuine Irish tact and ambiguity he managed generally to steer safely by both Scylla and Charybdis, committing himself not' too decidedly on either side of the argument, thus escaping collision with the opposite, and being rewarded by the smiles and favors of both sides; for, if, like the wily umpire in the fable, he did not claim the largest piece of cheese for his share, it was usually accorded to him in the shape of combined and' generous plaudits from both parties. Laying his forefinger thoughtfully in the centre of his bald, broad forehead, lowering his eyes, and assuming a look of deep, serious attention, he would proceed to consider the question at issue in all its bearings; and, when his mind was fairly made up, look with an admiring, approving smile from one to the other sister, and arranging at the same time his faultless white neck-tie with still greater precision,   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       109 deliver his opinion as follows: "Now, my dear ladies, you have fairly puzzled me-for each has argued her point so beautifully, and brought forward her logic so convincingly, and with such masculine vigor, that I confess myself quite at a loss how to say which has the right of the question exactly; for on every point I agree with both, and see the matter in quite a new light, for which I am very grateful. I would only say, suppose we should soften down a little, each of us, from absolute certainty, and leave room for a bare doubt or two on either hand, and then I think the question is settled finally." Or, if he thought he might venture to lean a little more to Miss Katharine's side, he would say, with the blandest of smiles and the most respectful of bows to Miss Matilda: "Ah, dear friends, my good ladies, if it was about the great matter of domestic economy, the ordering a house, laying in of supplies, preparing good and wholesome dishes, or prescribing for the sick, that you argued, I should know and declare at once that Miss Matilda knows the whole matter from beginning to end, and that her opinion must count with us for law. But now it seems to me that the marrow of this subject has presented itself with wonderful clearness to Miss Katharine's mind, and I am rather the most inclined to agree with her judg- 10     "O    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, ment, though I am free to declare that much has been very well said on both sides." Then Miss Katharine would, smile and blush with gratification, and say softly to Miss Matilda: "Yes, sister, I am willing to acknowledge I could never equal you in directing the servants, in the! making of cheeses and butter, and in the various household arts; but, then, you know I had always a better head for an argument." The good ladies were no whit disappointed in the beauty and graces of their niece, of whom they had heard such wonderful accounts, even in her babyhood. They discovered, to their great delight, too, the re- ported marvellous likeness to her grandmother; and, in a little while, the child was fully installed into all the old rights and privileges of her ancestor. The same apartments were appropriated to her use, with the same well-kept old furniture, including even books and cabinets of minerals. Bridget became her wait- ing-maid, as soon as she was considered to have passed from infancy, and from the need of the old nurse's care. At the mature age of four years, all infantine toys and plays were laid aside, and the little lady's educa- tion, both as to mind and manners, was seriously commenced. It was astonishing how completely the   THE TWO BEQUESTS.      1" aunts were able, by degrees, to overlook the fact not only that she was not identically the same individual upon whose girlhood, in years gone by, they had spent so much loving thought and care, but that she was a very young child, naturally requiring childish sympa- thy and companionship. Perhaps their own childhood was so far back in the past, that they had entirely lost sight of it; at any rate they did not like children, with their noisy and disorderly ways, running wild and romping over their primly kept apartments. "Gracious powers!" as Captain Ashton would have exclaimed, I dare say even the ponderous wardrobes, bureaus, &c., would have started out of their places and gravely remonstrated, had such an idea ever been suggested to them. The aunts so thoroughly enjoyed Isabella, besides, that probably it never occurred to them that they, with their books and conversation, and grown up amusements, to say nothing of their old gray-haired decorous friends, were not fully suffi- cient for her entertainment; and, in time, of course, she did learn to assimilate herself to them, and found amusement and pleasure in many quaint little schemes and contrivances. She had splendid health, and a fine flow of animal spirits, which would have enabled her to be merry and gay under more repressive influences than those which     "2    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, surrounded her. She had always Patrick and Bridget to make fun for her, and loved nothing better than to be mounted on a little fat Shetland pony, and with Patrick following close behind, go gallopping over the hills, stopping to rest occasionally and watch the pea- sants and their children at work or squatted round their peat fires lazily enjoying themselves. Patrick would entertain her, too, with humorous stories and long old family legends, and describe, in glowing colors, the beauty and grandeur of her grandmother, who, clothed in silks and satins, and jewels of untold value, had broken the hearts of all the young gentle- men for miles around, as he had heard his own mother tell many and many a time. In a little while the pony was exchanged for a spirited and full-blooded horse, which Isabella insisted upon having, and which was bought after due consul- tation with Mr. Roberts, the curate. And now the excursions became longer, and many additipns were made to the large collection of minerals, and mosses, and different botanical specimens, with which she was already well supplied; whilst hardly a hovel remained unvisited by her, and as large a store of native bal- lads, songs, and stories, were treasured up in her mind as she had collections of more material specimens in her different cabinets. The drive, too, with her aunts   THE TWO BEQ UESTS.       113 and Pedro, in the yellow chariot, afforded never-failing amusement and pleasure. She was permitted to dis- pense the bounty contained in the basket, and, while only a little rosy, chubby four-year-old darling, would clap her plump white little hands with delight at Patrick's performances, and the scampering of the little vagabonds, which inspirited that jolly good- humored old coachman to be always inventing some new waggery or other for her benefit. As for her tasks, her masters declared that it was a miracle how rapidly she learned, and how readily she understood them. Madame de Genlis I think it is, who says that the difference between those remark- ably talented, precocious children, and the more ordi- nary ones, consists principally, if not entirely, in the superior power of attention possessed by the former; and perhaps Isabella's separation from other children of her own age, assisted her in this power of attention to her teachers and her studies. She soon became a marvel of wisdom in her aunts' family, and a very great attraction to the elderly gentlemen and scholars who frequented their house. She was encouraged to express her opinions with freedom, and was listened to with grave respect, and called upon frequently to recite passages from her favorite authors, with which her memory was well stored, and which she repeated 10*      "4    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, with wonderful grace and expression; while her music and her singing never failed to be greeted with almost clamorous applause. So, if it was not a young life that she led, it was, at least, not wanting in many fruitful sources of enjoyment, and even of profit; for strange to say, this notice did not make her vain or self-conscious-it commenced so early, and was so steadily continued, and no opportunity being afforded her of contrasting her own acquirements with those of other children, may have been partly the cause. She was only about eleven years old when her aunt Matilda, who had always enjoyed vigorous health, and led an exceedingly active life, was suddenly seized one morning with apoplexy, at the breakfast table, and died almost immediately. Two months before Miss Katharine had fallen and broken her ankle bone, as well as dislocated her shoulder, and had ever since been confined to her sofa or arm-chair, and was very much shattered in her nervous system; and now the shock of her sister's sudden 4leath completely prostrated her, and finally brought on a softening of the brain, causing first in- sanity, and ending at last in death. During many dreary, painful months, Isabella had the entire charge of the poor old lady, aided only by faithful Patrick and Bridget; for, after the dreadful   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       115 suspicion entered her mind that her aunt was deranged, it was long before she could bear to disclose the sor- rowful secret, but with most delicate affection she en- deavored to shield her peculiarities as much as possible from even the observation of the servants. By her wonderful firmness and self-control she more than once subdued the poor old lady's violent paroxysms of frenzy, without calling either Patrick or Bridget to her assistance. And it was touching to see the defer- ence and respect with which, in her better and calmer moments, her aunt treated her, seeming to be con- scious of, and grateful for, the tender consideration which Isabella manifested towards her infirmity. Death was indeed a blessed relief, when it came to end the horrors which were darkening, more and more, around that poor beclouded intellect. She passed away without any of her old friends or acquaintances knowing the extent of her misfortune, or dreaming of the terrible ordeal through which her young niece had so heroically passed, although they pitied her for her pale cheeks, the consequence, as they sup- posed, of long confinement to her aunt's sick-room-- nothing more. The old ladies had made their will a full year be- fore these misfortunes commenced, and as the paper was regarded by the public generally as a remarkable /     "6     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, specimen of this kind of document, we shall permit the reader to judge for himself of its peculiarities: "By the will of God, we, Katharine Neville and Matilda Neville, sisters and spinsters, being both at this present date of sane mind, and in perfect health of body, do each and severally, as well as jointly and together, will and demise accordingly with regard to our estate, consisting of lands, money, jewels, plate, and other personal property, of which a correct list shall be ap- pended to this, our last and only will and testament. After deducting certain legacies to our friends, ser- vants and dependants, which also shall be hereinafter enumerated, all-the property both in land, jewels, money, plate, &c., which was once the separate pro- perty of that one of us two, the aforementioned sis- ters, Katharine and Matilda Neville, which shall be first deceased, shall belong exclusively and intact, to the surviving sister, to be for the use and under the control of said survivor during the term of her na- tural life. We do then; at our deaths, give and be- queath, severally and jointly, each our separate shares after the death of both of us, and jointly the entire estate, with all right, title and claim, to all manner and descriptions of property once ours, to our well beloved and most worthy and 'accompllished niece, Isabella Ashton, whom we have adopted as our child   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       117 and sole heir. We appoint our long-tried and trusted friends, Ellis Martin, Esq., and Thomas O'Brien, Esq., executors of our wills, and trustees and guar- dians of the aforesaid property, on behalf of our niece, Isabella Ashton, and also of said niece's person, should she, at any time, desire or require their assist- ance or protection; and in the hands of these afore- said guardians and trustees, by them to be held and kept, we have placed the legal written document, pro- perly signed and attested, whereby our nephew, Richard Ashton, Esq., of the United States of Amer- ica, for ever surrendered all claim or right to exercise parental authority or control over our niece Isabella. Unless our niece shall decide to become a naturalized citizen of the Kingdom of Great Britain, we wish her trustees and guardians immediately to sell and safely invest for her the lands which, as an alien, she may not inherit. In the rare wisdom, intelligence, and prudence of our niece we so entirely confide, that we wish no one to restrict her in the use of her property, or in any way to interfere with her actions, except to offer advice and counsel, or protection, should she need it. And we also feel entire confidence that our dear daughter and niece will, on her part, pay all due regard to the single wish or condition which we attach to our bequest; namely, that while we desire her to     "8     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, spend freely and liberally the property we leave her, in such ways and upon such objects as shall promote her own happiness and welfare and do good to others, we do strictly beg and enjoin upon her, to be closely on her guard, and never to allow herself to be de- ceived or defrauded, or by any means induced to per- mit any part of what we leave her to be squandered in vice, or misspent, or applied to any disreputable purpose whatever. She must be careful always to know in what manner every sum of money is spent. By our love for this, our dear good child, and by our perfect trust in her, as well as by all her past dutiful, sensible, and prudent conduct, we appeal to her to re- member and to regard as a sacred trust and charge this our expressed wish." Then followed the list and valuation of the several pieces of property; the legacies and the signatures of the parties and of their witnesses. It was a very large fortune indeed which was thus bequeathed to Isabella, for her aunts in their simple style of living had spent but a comparatively small portion of their incomes, which consequently had been accumulating and increasing year after year, so that at their deaths every one was astonished at their great wealth. The tidings of her mother's death had reached Isabella whilst she was keeping her strict and secret ' - .       -  ' [   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       119 watch over her afflicted relative, whom she scarcely ever leftduring all those long dark trying months. And so intently were all her powers of mind concentrated upon the painful duty which had devolved upon her, and so high strung was her whole nervous energy, in the constant effort to maintain perfect calmness and self-control, that she afterwards wondered at herself and grieved over what seemed to her the dead, cold, apathetic mood in which she had received the sad intelligence. But after her aunt's death, when this great pressure was removed from her, the reaction came, and she shed floods of tears, which greatly alarmed Bridget, who had scarcely ever seen her weep before. The kind, wise old Doctor, however, understood her case better; he knew that nature required this relief, and for a time she was permitted to indulge in the free expression of her grief. Then he peremptorily ordered her to travel, and divert her mind amid new scenes. As her father did not make his appearance for some weeks, Mrs. Lomax, a friend of her two aunts, offered to take her immediately to Killarney, and to visit the other lochs and mountains of Ireland whilst she was awaiting his arrival. The fine bracing air, and the long delightful rambles she took over this beautiful and romantic country, so rich with historic     120    HEA VENWARD LED; OR, and poetic associations, soon made a wonderful im- provement in her health and spirits, and she returned to meet her father with her cheeks once more brilliant with the bloom of youth and health, and her eyes spark- ling and glowing with lively animation and interest. So great and complete was the rebound of her spirits, that, with a fresh childlike feeling, she looked at the world as from a new sphere, finding something to surprise and please her on every hand. But when she reverted in thought to the memory of her past life of self-reliant strength, she shuddered at the thought of ever taking up such a weary load of care again; and wanted to be a weak little child, to be petted and caressed, and cared for, and have no responsibility except to obey and follow some wise, friendly leading hand. With enthusiastic devotion, she seized upon her father and clung to him as if she would never leave his supporting arms. At twilight she would make him take her on his knee, and let her clasp her arms tightly about his neck, while he told her all about her mother, for whose tenderness and love she now so longed. Proud of, and admiring her beauty and many attractions, as well as delighted at her fondness for him, the father fondled and caressed her in return to her heart's content, and would talk of his dead wife   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       121 as he had never done to any one before, and as no one would have supposed him capable of doing. As the physician thought it very important that Isabella should lead a perfectly free, idle, life of amusement, for one, or perhaps two years, saying that he would not answer for the consequences were her mind taxed in any serious manner during that time, Captain Ashton gladly availed himself of so good an excuse for pro- posing a continental tour before they should go to settle down quietly in their American home; and Isabella was quite willing to avail herself of the opportunity for travel and improvement. Bridget, who had grown from a maid of fourteen or fifteen to be quite a young woman, during her attend- ance upon Isabella, begged to be taken with them; declaring her intention never to leave " the young mis- thress" as long as she would allow her to stay by her. Accordingly, the little party set out upon their travels in high spirits, and the young lady and her attendant full of bright anticipations. Captain Ashton was too old a traveller to enjoy the novelty which gave such a charm to everything in Isabella's eyes; but he did find considerable pleasure in the thought of his daughter's great fortune being so much at his own disposal, as he felt quite sure it would be, since she was allowed so much freedom in managing it, and was "     122    HEAVEN'WARD LED; OR, such a young innocent child; so fond and confiding in her feelings for him. Captain Ashton loved to exhibit his daughter's devotion to him, and to see, as he fancied, the envious eyes which watched them in their travels. Nothing that indulgence and flattery could do, should be left undone, to cherish and increase the love and con- fidence of his beautiful daughter for him, he was resolved. And how much power he would gain, too, amongst his own friends by the influence he would be seen to have over her! All these reflections quite animated and excited him, so that his mood was wonderfully hilarious and jocund. He had spoken to her of his own poverty and of her great wealth in a dejected tone, calling himself, according to his habit, a poor disinherited heir," born as he said with large expectations, but doomed to find himself invariably "Ieft out in the cold" when fortune's favors were being dispensed. Oh no, papa, not this time at least," Isabella had answered with innocent gaiety; "for of course our aunts meant that you should do as you please with all that is mine. In fact you know they hardly realized at all that I was not actually and truly grandma, and so they just gave it to me to take care of for you. v  J   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       123 One of these days I suppose I must make you my heir," she added with a merry laugh. "Ah, yes, I suppose they said nothing then about your not allowing yourself to be deceived and cheated out of any of their precious savings, and did not appoint sharp lawyers as your guardians and trustees instead of your own father, whom, one would think the most natural and proper protector for yourself and your ' Bequest' too," he replied, with a hard bitter laugh. Isabella looked up at him in astonishment as she mnswered, "Why, my dear papa, that is very different trom not wishing you to have it. You know the dear old ladies were a little peculiar about some things; ;hey always wanted good worthy people to be rich And happy, but never would help any one whom they Vhought undeserving. And they wanted me to be careful and do just as they did, I suppose. I can't 6ee what else they meant; for they never wanted me to be selfish and mean, but above all never a bad daughter to my own dear papa; and it would be very bad in me if I did not let you have all the money you want. Then you were not in Ireland when they appointed :heir good friends to have charge of me. Don't you anderstand it all now, papa?" she asked coaxingly. "I suppose so," he answered; and was rather sorry     I. 124     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, he had said as much as he had, since she was so entirely ignorant and unsuspecting of his aunts' opinion of him; he felt quite thankful that they had at least done him the kindness not to prejudice his child against him. For some weeks he put a great restraint upon him- self, and devoted his time almost exclusively to the care and amusement of his daughter, talking with her in his most agreeable and spirited manner, giving graphic descriptions of his various adventures, some of them doubtless quite fabulous-but she never guessed that, and listened to him with absorbed attention. He took her wherever she expressed a desire to go, not refraining even from parading her through some of the gambling saloons of Paris, which he had been in the habit of frequenting when in that city with his friends. Isabella's perfect innocence, and entire ignorance of the world, kept her from suspecting anything wrong about the different amusements in which the people were engaged there, and sometimes she took a hand at cards, just as she had been accustomed to do in Ireland with her aunts and the curate, never dreaming that the games here were any less innocent. Her father's hints and suggestions put his companions somewhat on their guard before her, while her per-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       125 feet trust in him kept her free from the least suspi- cion of harm. He, meanwhile, found no difficulty in excusing his conduct to himself upon the plea that she was only a child, and would be amused without understanding anything, or being injured by what she saw. Indeed, her guileless confidence in him began, by degrees, to embolden him so much that he grew less careful to conceal his real character than he had been at first. The first shock which this perfect trust and confi- dence received, was on the occasion of a great spiritual meeting at Paris. Many of Captain Ashton's quon- dam friends and associates from New York and else- where had met there for the purpose of assisting by their presence, and in other ways, the wonderful spiritual manifestations, which were promised the public in flaming notices and handbills. Captain Ashton was invited to make an address, introducing the medium, who was nothing more than an inexpert juggler, requiring darkness to conceal from the public the machinery by the aid of which his magical operations were carried on. Isabella was full of eager curiosity and interest in what she heard on the subject beforehand: mys- terious hints were given in her presence, which, when she questioned her father about, he only laughed and "*     126    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, said, "We live in a very credulous world, my child, and in a very progressive period of it. Let us reap all the benefit we may, and let him laugh who wins the day." When the evening for the meeting arrived her father proposed her going with one of his friends, and taking a seat with the other spectators. But her natively refined instincts had always made her shrink fromassociating with any of his acquaintances, more than the bare exchange of ordinary civilities required, without her being conscious of the reason for these feelings; and so now she begged him not to leave her to go without him, saying in a touchingly pleading voice, "I should feel so forlorn without you, dear papa." Accordingly, he was reluctantly compelled to con- sent to take her with him to the room back of the stage, on which the spirits were expected to make those wonderful manifestations of their presence; coming from the spirit world for the purpose of making the crowd gape and stare with wonder at such mar- vellous exploits, as moving round in the dark and changing the postures of the man supposed to be immovably fastened in his chair. As her father introduced her to the little assembled company of believers, or pretended believers, in this palpable humbuggery, he laughingly apologized by jf   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       127 saying that she belonged to the initiated. And before these people dispersed, to take their places among the spectators, ready to assist the medium, whenever he should call them out to join him in any of his delusive exploits, she heard much which made her stare at them, and also at her father, with pained astonish- ment, and listen afterwards to his glib fluent introduc- tory remarks and explanations with keen mortification, distress, and bewilderment. She very soon wished herself at home; and every time her father rose to speak, in confirmation of a deception which was, from her point of view at any rate, most apparent, her grief and surprise increased. When he came at length to take her home, there was an expression in her white quiet face which he could not meet without confusion and agitation. Captain Ashton dreaded to be questioned by his child as they walked together to their hotel; but knowing that she was not equal to hearing any expla- nations that night, she exercised her wonted self-com- mand, and even tried to become interested in other topics, and to talk as if nothing had occurred to excite her unusually. This quite relieved her father, by convincing him that he had not correctly interpreted the expression of her countenance. The next morn- ing, however, after the servant had cleared away the     128    HEA VEJ TWARD LED; OR, breakfast things and left the room, she looked at him with her own frank, ingenuous countenance, and asked in a quiet matter-of-fact tone, as if expecting nothing but candor and truth in reply, ' Now, papa, tell me what you all were doing last night? for I must have been under some strange illu- sion of my senses, everything seemed so false and deceptive. And you yourself, papa, what could you have meant by joining those with people? What is the meaning of the whole thing?" He looked at her in silence for a few moments, while framing what he thought would be a suitable answer; then he answered with a light laugh: "Allowance must always be made, my child, at such places, for the exalted imaginations of the more gifted sons of men. Did you never hear that half the world are knaves and the other half fools?" he con- tinued, seeing how steadfastly she continued to regard him, as if waiting for some explanation of his first evasive half-answer. "Please explain to me exactly what you mean, papa, for I do not comprehend you at all. And don't jest with me about this. I feel in such deep, painful earnest myself, and do so long for an assurance that my father was not really engaged in cheating and de- ceiving the public last night; for, much as I hate to   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       129 speak the words, it did actually seem so to me then," she said, with a grave, earnest, sad face. "Oh! my daughter!-my inquisitive little Queen of Sheba-you must no; expect to understand all these little mysteries at once; and besides, you are too serious about the whole business. You should have stayed with the spectators, and taken only an outside view of these manifestations, and been simply amused and surprised by them. This little trickery in connection with the great truth of spiritual inter- course with and influence upon man, helps to make it more acceptable to the popular mind; but perhaps it does vulgarize it a little, and would be as well dropped, especially if there are many such sharp- sighted, incredulous witnesses as yourself by. I think I shall not appear again in those scenes," he added, trying to appease her and to end the conversation. "I trust, indeed, that you never will again, papa," she exclaimed, so warmly, that he replied: "Why, certainly not, since my little queen disap- proves of it so entirely. But, my dear daughter, don't be quite so high-strung in your notions about such little matters. 'Lord! how this world is given to lying!' you know b)nest old Shakspeare says; so we can't change it, but must take it as it is, and make the best of it." I     130     HEAVENW ARD LED; OR, As he said this he laughed, and stroked her hair, and patted her cheek, trying to coax a smile on the grave, quiet face before which he felt mean and re- buked. In vain, however, were all such efforts. She was stung and pained to the very core of her heart. Never in all her life before had anything so shocked her moral sense as well as distressed and mortified her. Could it be her own father's voice she had just heard speaking so lightly, so coarsely, even, of truth and falsehood, warning her, his child, actually against too much exactitude in her standard? Gradually drawing back from his endearments, she quietly left the room, but without looking into his face, for she felt ashamed for him; and for nearly two whole days after this she remained shut up in her chamber, suffering more keen anguish of spirit than she had ever experienced before in her whole life, The good-hearted Bridget saw she was in great dis tress, but that she did not seem to wish to speak of the cause of her trouble; and for some time the ser vant wondered in silence what the matter could be but unable to restrain herself longer, she ventured a length to say: "Miss Isabella, dear, sure you wouldn't be th young lady to be making yourself all sick again, jus as you was getting well entirely, by crying and frel   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       131 ting after them the good Lord has taken; or is it some one else that's dead, or can poor Bridget help you a bit?" "No, Bridget, no!" sad Isabella, ihiatically; "I am not wicked enough to be grieving for any one whom the good God has taken out of this bad world. No one can help me now; but I thank you, and only want to be as much to myself as I can." So Bridget left her, but wondered more than ever what could have happened to distress her so much. At dinner time, she went to her mistress again to ask her if she would dress as usual to see her father. Isabella merely said she would not go down any more that day, and desired her dinner brought to her room. "And what shall I tell the master himself, Miss Isabella, for he'll be sure to want to know what ails you?" said cunning, curious Bridget. Isabella hesitated a moment, not willing to avail herself of the convenient excuse that she was not well, fearing it was not strictly true, since her sufferings were entirely mental and not physical; and not for the whole world would she, at that moment, have made the slightest approach to anything like prevari- cation. She had always loved the truth, but never had it been so exalted and precious in her esteem as since that morning's conversation with her father. ,          ,     132    HEA VENWARD LED; OR, You can toll papa, Bridget, if he wishes to know why I do not come down, that I am not very happy, and prefer to be alone at present,", she at length said with slow, quiet deliberation of manner, as if she weighed every word before uttering it. "And sure, Miss Isabella," said Bridget, when she returned, bringing the dinner, "the master was grieved then like I never see him before. I don't be- lieve he 'll eat the dinner at all, for it's himself's un- happy now." Isabella looked sad, but made no reply. About noon the next day her father came to her room, and explained and smoothed and palliated his conduct and his words; assuring her that she had misunder- stood his playful jests, which he saw now were too rough, and he would be careful, he promised, another time not to forget that he was not talking to one of his gentlemen friends, who knew just how to take his rough, careless words. Isabella tried to accept and believe his apologies and excuses, but distrust was implanted for the first time in her young heart-and that distrust was of her own father's word and honor; and in proportion must inevitably her love and respect for him be diminished. After this he for some little time put a wonderful   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       133 degree of restraint upon himself, and was almost a model of outward propriety, comparatively speaking. But his habits were very firmly fixed, and his stand- ard was far from being a high one; so that he was con- stantly making unconscious revelations of himself to his young daughter's now opening vision. Although the passion for strong drink was not his chief entanglement, he indulged much too frequently, and sometimes came into her presence while plainly under its excitement, which condition she soon learned instantly to detect. Yet she clung to him as long as she could. There was no one else near her on whom she could lean, strangers and foreigners as they were, far from old home-friends and kindred. And then, again, she now became conscious of the fact that he was seldom greeted as they passed along their way by any marks of friendly re- spect and regard; but that, on the contrary, he was the object of many stealthy, side-long glances, expres- sive of anything but approval. This awakened in her heart those feelings of generous, self-sacrificing pity, so natural to every true woman, and made her try to palliate and excuse his faults, and make every possible degree of allowance for him, which otherwise she could not have done. Besides this, she was proud and high-souled, and 1]2     134    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, because he was her father she thought it her duty to stand by him, in public at least, and give him her support and countenance the more that public seemed to frown upon him; to show that she was not ashamed of him or borne down by their opinion, although she might all the time agree in her own heart with the verdict it was rendering. She kept herself loftily apart from his intimates and companions, as her in- tuitive perceptions had led her to do almost uncon-' sciously from the very first. Still she continued to accompany him to many of his favorite resorts, and maintained for a long time her childish ignorance and innocent freedom from suspicion regarding his amuse- ments. She was a skilful player in many of his games, of which he was shamefully proud, and frequently boasted of her brilliancy and her beauty to those in whose hearing he should never have breathed her sweet, pure name. '&   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       135 CHAPTER FIFTH. BADEN-BADEN. ADEN-BADEN! .What a crowd of strangely mingled thoughts, feelings, and associations was it destined to call up in the mind of Isabella in connection with its never-ending hills of verdure, its dark' forests, and its exhaustless fountains and winding,tsilvery streams! Here, during the two occasions on which our tra- vellers in the midst of their long wanderings halted to enjoy its health-renewing baths-to say nothing of its less. innocent attractions for one at least of the party-happened events so memorable in the career of our heroine that they were fated to exercise a lifelong influence over her history as well as her character. For, through the dark and gloomy color- ing in which memory ever painted the principal scenes and incidents of her sad young life at beautiful Baden, there yet stole a single ray of magical light to'overspread them with its soft, tender radiance; and which if not sufficient fully to compensate for all the     136    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, darkness and evil resulting therefrom, rendered at least the worst more endurable, and life, in spite of every cloud or sorrow shadowing the past or present hour, most blessed and happy through all its -future years. During her first visit to this place, Isabella might be seen each summer evening walking with her father through the beautiful pleasure grounds, the colonnades, and halls of the much-frequented "Conversations- }taus," enjoying by turns the shade of the great forest trees and cool breezes, in which the long, tapering linden leaves were trembling and waving, the music in the open air, the games of hide-and- seek of the merry children through the arched halls and round about the stately pillars, or watching the dancers in the ball-room, unmindful all the while of the murmurs of admiration which her beauty drew forth, mingled with looks of astonishment, when at a later hour she was seen seated amidst those who were alone privileged to be seated at the "rouge-et-noir" and "roulette" tables, sharing her father's favorite vice, still in pure unconscious innocence of motive and design, seeking only by this amusement to beguile the tedium of her lonely hours; for never did her heart feel more entirely alone than when passing through these busy crowds of pleasure-seekers, among whom   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       137 she had only a few most casual travelling acquaint- ances. The mornings she devoted to her books, her German masters, and to rambles through the forest- paths and to the neighboring villages, making friends by her liberal gifts among the simple peasantry, and learning at the same time also much about their native habits and customs, and becoming familiar with their language. But in the evening she had only her father and his pleasures with which to occupy herself. Two gentlemen had entered the hall one night, and after having passed through the groups of spectators, who were lounging or walking about, and occasionally pausing to notice the operations of the players in dif- ferent parts of the room, they stationed themselves directly in front of Isabella, where they had a full view of her face, which, as well as her person and actions, they had been intently studying for some moments before she became conscious even of their presence. But raising her head at length, which had been bent to examine and arrange the cards which had been dealt to her, she suddenly encountered an expression in the eyes of one of them, which made the blood rush to her cheeks in such a full and rapid tide that they glowed with a crimson blush of shame and a new bewildering consciousness that she must be 12*     138    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, doing wrong. They were deep, earnest, thoughtful, blue eyes, and in them she plainly read searching, questioning interest and surprise, mingled with sor- rowful regret and pity. Had she heard from his lips in deep, solemn tones such a question as roused the prophet of old: "What doest thou here, Elijah?" she could not have been much more startled, for it seemed indeed such a ques- tion which his eyes asked; and the still small voice in her heart so' immediately and significantly echoed it, that without a moment's hesitation she laid down her cards, and turning to her father, exclaimed in a sup- plicating tone of voice, which penetrated the hearts of her hearers like a sharp cry of pain: "Papa! papa! please take me home immediately!" Then quickly recovering her self-possession, she arose and added with quiet decision, lest he should delay or hesitate--"I must go at once." Alarm and surprise were written on every face, and her father was instantly beside her, asking, in a troubled, agitated voice, if she was frightened or ill. The same questions were repeated in confused mur- murs by such of the players as were not too much engrossed in the interest of their games to resent any, lterruption. In a moment, however, the voice of Monsieur TBenazet, the director of the games, silenced   THE TWO BEQUESTS.      139 the hubbub, by asking in a loud, clear, authoritative tone: "Is mademoiselle too ill to proceed?" "Yes," answered her father instantly. "Will not some one be good enough to take our hands?" he added, glancing towards the two gentlemen opposite. Isabella would gladly have availed herself of this prompt and ready answer, and have made her imme- diate escape from the observation she had attracted to herself, and which was most trying and painful to her feelings; but it was untrue. And so, after a short inward conflict, she determined to brave the sneers and ridicule of those around her, and to speak out the truth boldly, as had always been her wont. Summoning to her aid all her dignity and self-com- mand, she said, with a calm, composed manner, and in a clear, quiet voice: "No, monsieur, I am not ill; but I beg still to be at once excused." "But why, mademoiselle-why is this that you cannot stay to finish the game you have commenced?' asked the director. "Simply, monsieur, because I do not wish to do so," she replied. "I suppose, then, that mademoiselle knows the rules of the establishment. A large forfeit is required     "O    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, from every one who interrupts the players before the end of each game,"' said the man, shrugging his shoul- ders and elevating his eyebrows. "Very well, sir. Present your account in the morning at the Badenscher IIof-it shall be settled," she replied with a lofty air of decision, and taking her father's arm, she left the place without further delay. As soon as the surprise occasioned by this little scene had subsided, an animated discussion took place amongst the by-standers regarding its cause and the parties concerned in it, and various were the surmises made and explanations given, to all of which the two strangers listened with intense interest. What could have happened, my, daughter, to alarm and disturb you so?" asked Isabella's father, as they walked together to their lodgings, at the Badenscher Hof. "Only, papa, that something spoke to my heart and told me, with startling plainness, that we were doing very wrong," she answered. Ier father looked into her face with amazement, and asked, "What do you mean, my daughter? Who spoke so to you?" "It was no human voice which spoke, papa. I read it first in some one's eyes-some one who was v   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       141 grieved for me and pitied me because it was wrong for me to be there. But it was the voice in my own heart which made me sure he was right, and frightened me," she replied. Her father remained silent, looking bewildered and alarmed; he was almost afraid she was losing her senses, her words sounded so strange and wild to him; but she presently startled him further by asking a question which compelled him to summon all his men- tal resources to his aid in order to find an answer which might silence and satisfy her without his incur- ring the risk of being afterwards detected in falsehood. "Papa," she said, "tell me exactly what is gener- ally thought in the world of the ladies and gentlemen who attend these places, and with whom we have been playing cards." They were passing just then the lamps in front of a brilliantly lighted hotel, which illuminated the whole square, and she turned her face full upon him with a look so searching and penetrating, that he was compelled to lower his eyes as he stammered out evasively- "Of course, my daughter, if I thought it wrong, I should not go to these places. People, however, think very differently upon this as upon all other sub- jects, and ladies who will spend evening after even- ing at their whist table at home will make sanctimo     "2    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, nious faces over what they call gambling, and heap opprobrious epithets upon the poor jolly fellows who enjoy themselves in this way, because they heighten the interest of their games by staking money on them. That, by the way, is the reason Monsieur Benazet is so strict in demanding a forfeit for breaking up the play before the game is ended; he did not mean to be uncivil to you; it is his rule, and it is only fair that the money should be paid down in some form; he has his percentage out of every stake, and then there might be shirking and cheating, if some one did not look over and preside---" Isabella here interrupted him abruptly; she had been staring full at him, Iwith a face expressing horror and amazement, ever since he had mentioned the word gambling.  "Oh, papa!" she exclaimed, "you do not mean to say that we were gambling? and those people whom you introduced to me as gentlemen and ladies, who were they? Surely you have not, you can not, havt carried me amongst people who are not received into respectable society! I have often read dreadful things of gamblers, but I did not dream I should be among them and not know it. What have you done, papa? What shall I do? Never can I hold up my head again before the world! Oh, how I wish I had died   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       143 years ago! It is so, so terrible to think of being dis- graced by one's own conduct! I thought I had suffered enough already, but this is more than I can bear." Her voice was full of sadness and despair, though there were no tears in her eyes. Her father felt ashamed and regretful, and tried to murmur out a few consolatory words, to which, so far from replying, she tried to close her ears, hating at that moment the very sound of his voice. She did not give way to her feel- ings in the manner she had done at Paris, when she received her first shock, but spoke to Bridget as usual when she had reached her own room at the hotel, and let the poor girl chat and gossip to her heart's con- tent. She felt so humbled and mortified for herself, and, in proportion, such increased respect for her maid, and for all others who could look without shame into the faces of their fellow-creatures and boast that, however humble their lot and poor their circumstances might be, they at least had always led honest and respecta- ble lives. How she envied them in spite of their poverty and every other worldly disadvantage! For in her first keen anguish she did not pause to find any justification for herself, but, realizing what others were likely to think of her conduct and character, she quietly accepted their estimate as if it had been cor- rect; and when at length Bridget had retired, she sat,     "4    HEAVENWARD LED; OR,. hour after hour, with her face buried in her hands, as if she could indeed never hold up her head again; gradually came bitter and more bitter reflections upon the world at large. When she thought of how she had been deceived by her father, how her love and trust had all been thrown away upon him, she felt as if her heart would turn to stone, and almost vowed that never again would she care for any human being, or believe in them, however specious and plausible they might seem. What he had said of ladies playing whist in their own parlors made her think of her poor old aunts. She could not blame them, for well she knew how grieved and shocked they would have been could they have thought any one would ever try to make such an excuse for gambling; but she was sorry she had ever seen a card in their house, and determined she would never touch onejgain; indeed, the thought of doing so gave her a feeling of heart-sickness. Of Mr. Roberts, the curate, she thought with stern severity, and wondered how he, a minister of the gos- pel, could bear to trifle so with what, being a man and knowing the world, he must fully know the harm and the mischief of. She remembered, too, his smooth, flattering speeches, and felt the utmost disgust for what seemed the selfishness and duplicity of his character. Heretofore she had only smiled at his great complai-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       145 sance, and tried sometimes, from mischief, to entangle him into compromising himself with one or other of her aunts. Now, however, the whole world seemed so false and hollow and bad, she longed, as she told her father, to die and leave it. The thought of going where people were, the next morning, was dreadful to her. She did not want even to see her German master; so, after taking her break- fast in her room, she told Bridget to have the man whom they called the "valet de place" sent to her, and ordered him to have two mules saddled for her maid and herself, and to be ready to accompany her on an excursion to the "Alte Schloss," the old castle which crowns the highest point of the grandest of those lofty hills which tower above the town of Baden. She had been there before with her father and others; and longed to be there alone now, that she might be soothed by its still, solitary grandeur, and look down from its proud height upon the world in which she never expected to find a congenial place, and from the people of which she rather hoped always to keep apart. When her little party had gained the top of the steep ascent, and she had listened with a kinder and softer manner even than usual to Bridget's original and comic expressions of wonder and interest, she 13        K     "6     HEAVENWARD   .ED; OR, bade her go with the valet, if she wished, to examine the frightful old dungeons in the lower part of the castle, and leave her to enjoy by herself the prospect from the top. From the balconies surrounding those now mouldering battlements she gazed with deep, soul-felt delight upon the magnificent view which was spread out before her eyes, forgetting for the time even her heart-heaviness. There, on one side, rose those venerable old hills of the black forest, covered with thick impenetrable looking woods, with " all their leafy verdure" in full luxuriance, so that only here and there could a glimpse be caught of the little green valleys they enclose. And then the town of Baden lay hushed, as it seemed, in deep repose, as if lulled by the soft murmurs: of the Oos, right at her feet; and further on there were other little winding streams, on the banks of which were clustered mills, and convents, with their glittering crosses pointing upwards, and little villages whose tall church spires presided over the lowly cottages of which they were for the most part composed. And then she turned to the other side, where the hills all subsided into one vast level-- the plain of the Rhine, keeping its smooth unin- terrupted course until, along the edge of the distant horizon, rose up the misty tops of the Vosges Moun- tains. in France. A Sabbath-like stillness was over   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       147 everything; and as she lifted her eyes, now, to the cloudy domes and palaces which spread their opal arches over her head, she thought of Him who, having his tabernacle above the clouds, and dwelling in the light, looketh down upon the world, with all its bitter strife and turmoil, its cares and its sorrows, and seeing all things as they truly are, pities the miserable, and condemns no one for his misfortunes. And for the first time began something like comfort to come to her heart, with the reflection that her late association with evil had not been voluntary, and that she had in fact had no share at all in what was carried on around her, of which she was as wholly ignorant as the most perfect infant could have been. Isabella's first sensations of horror had completely overpowered her, and covered her mind as it were with a thick black cloud, through which she could see no light; now her vision began to clear a little, though it was still with a subdued, saddened feeling that, upon hearing some one approach, she descended to where Bridget and the valet were awaiting her return, only whispering softly to herself, "No wonder the Saviour so often went up into a mountain to pray." Taking from Bridget the small basket she had brought to'carry back any ferns, mosses, or specimens of other kinds which she might find and wish to preserve as     "8    HEA VENWARD LED; OR, mementoes of the day, she told them to wait still a little longer for her while she followed a narrow foot- path leading through some low undergrowth to a ledge of rocks on the steep hillside, where, from the balcony above, she had spied some bright lichens and pretty green ferns and mosses. When she came to the spot it was so quiet and shady and sweet, that she seated herself upon a large flat stone, and resting her feet upon the thick velvety moss which was spread like a carpet below, took a small edition of Schiller's poems from her pocket and read over the poem she was to have read with her master-"The Cranes of Ibycus"-and having finished that, she began to make a little sketch of the place where she was on the fly- leaf of her book; while still thus engaged she pre- sently heard footsteps and voices approaching. Thinking they might be those of Bridget and the valet, she peeped through an opening in the bushes be- hind her to make sure, but saw instead a party of gen- tlemen, two of whom were quite close at hand. Feeling very uncomfortable as she realized her lonely and un- protected situation, she hastened immediately, and as noiselessly as possible, to hide herself from observation beneath a steep overhanging rock not far below the one on which she had ileen seated. She had to bend and crouch into a very small space; but hoping they   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       149 would soon pass on, she did not mind this discomfort. While, with a beating heart, she hastily made her arrangements for concealment, she missed hearing- what she might have heard had she not been so much agitated and absorbed in what she was doing-the words of the first speaker, for the gentlemen were by this time so near her, that the reply of his companion reached her very distinctly. "Why, Hal," she heard him say, and her heart stood still as he went on, "that certainly was a most unusual and interesting display, to have taken place amongst the gamblers of the Conversationshaus! I am glad you had so fine an opportunity of seeing that beautiful woman to advantage. Indeed, I am almost tempted to think she must have gotten up the per- formance for your especial benefit, for she is gene- rally more than usually quiet; makes no fuss what- ever, and is apparently very indifferent to admi- ration." ".There was no performance or display intended, Frank, I assure you. She spoke and acted simply from the impulse of a good, pure heart. I had an opportunity of studying her face for several moments, while she was perfectly unconscious of being observed, and I never in my life saw a lovelier one. So far from deserving the harsh things which have been said 13*     150    tHEA VEN'WARD LED; OR, about her, she is not only different from, but far above, all ordinary women." The voice in which this reply was made was rich and mellow, and beautifully modulated, and there was something also in the warm, gentle earnestness of his manner which was very winning; altogether, his words impressed Isabella as coming from a person who must be cultivated, refined, and good. And she could not help feeling very grateful to him for his gentle charity, in spite of all her 'resolutions of the previous night never again to believe in anybody, or think there was any good in the world. She felt very uncomfortable, notwithstanding, at being compelled to act the part of eavesdropper, and hoped most ear- nestly that they would pass on now; but instead of this they stood still just on the brow of the hill above her to wait for a friend who had lagged behind with some gentlemen who were now turning off in another direc- tion. Of course, Isabella could not see or understand any of this, so that she was startled at their continued nearness to her, and all the blood in her veins tingled at the words which greeted her ear in the light, care- less tones of the first speaker. "Upon my word, Hal!" he said laughingly, 4"I believe really that you are a case of love at first sight. I had th3ught you were past the susceptible age.    THE TWO BEQUESTS.       151 Why. man, I never said the girl's face wasn't beauti- ful-nay, as beautiful as a goddess, if you choose, I'll admit. It was only last evening that I ad- vised you to take a stroll among the gamblers' seats in the hall of the Conversationshaus, for the purpose of seeing her celestial majesty. As far as face and form, too, for that matter, are concerned, I am much more than half in love with her myself. I have only contended that she is a young person of singular pro- clivities, to choose, in every city where she stops, the gamblers' hell for the display of her graces." At these words Isabella covered her burning cheeks with her hands, and tears forced their way through her slender fingers as the speaker continued in the same jesting tone. "Another singularity in her character, too, and a decided contradiction, as it seems to me, is the great distance at which this haughty beauty keeps her would-be admirers. Why, Diana the chaste could not glide with more serene majesty through the Olympian groves than she displays in those infamous dens, where ordinary men, to say nothing of the ordinary women you speak of, would blush to be seen. Come, Doctor," he called aloud, and then continued, as a third gentleman joined them, "I want your assistance here, Doctor; give us the benefit of your judgment.     152    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, What diagnosis did you make in our case last night at the hall?" "What case, Frank? Oh, you mean, I suppose, that poor girl at the Conversationshaus-the gam- bler's daughter. It is a sad, sad case, indeed," answered a kind voice in very broken English. "And there's going to be another sad, sad case for you, too, Doctor; for Hal here is going rapidly over to her very singular creed, persuasion, or what- ever you may call it; in a few days he'll think us ordinary people not worth speaking to, so enamored is he growing of the extraordinary ones like the young woman in question." "My good friend, don't jest, I beg you, about that scene last night; if you had been present yourself you would have felt more like weeping. I was never more touched in my life. She is as beautiful as an angel," replied the Doctor. "I really did not mean to make a jest of the poor girl; it was only Hal's defence of her that I have been ridiculing. With that wonderously sweet voice of his, which they tell me can persuade a jury to be- lieve white's black and black's white, he has been trying to convince me that because she has a beautiful face and a sweet voice that touches one's heart dike his own, I suppose), she must necessarily be an angel;   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       ] 53 while I, in my matter-of-fact, dogged way, will insist upon thinking that actions speak louder than faces as well as words; and that were she an angel she would choose more angelic society than she has been keeping." "Poor child! There is certainly some most pain- ful mystery in her life-; but, as I am a living man, I believe she will be found to be not only blameless in this matter, but deeply injured and deceived, and then most foully slandered by the world's uncharitable tongue," answered Hal, with increased warmth and animation. "May be so, Mr. Conjurer; but I think, as a true knight-errant, you are bound, if this be the case, to deliver your persecuted princess out of the hands of her tormentors, having first read for us this painful mystery which you have discovered, at one glance, hidden in her face. I, for my part, do not believe in good people's being mysterious; everything is fair and open where there is nothing to hide. I'll tell you, though, what is sometimes said of her an!l of that wicked old party, her father. They say he boasts of her as a sort of infant phenomenon; a musical pro- digy as well as a gambling one; and is educating her for the theatre, the opera, or some sort of public dis- play. He gives out her age to be only about eleven     154    HEA VENV WAR D LED; OR, or twelve or somewhere thereabouts, which he may tell to the marines, for no one is going to believe that palpable lie; she looks much nearer twenty than ten; but they say she does sing divinely, all joking aside; that she beats Jenny Lind by far." "Poor, poor child! she is young, indeed, to, have suffered, as I fear she already has, from the world's cruel harshness," said Hal in a sad, musing tone. Then turning to his companion, he added in a gentle, yet warm and earnest tone of remonstrance: "My dear Frank, you are not doing yourself justice this morning; you have been speaking neither like a Christian nor a philosopher, and most unlike the truly kind, warm-hearted fellow you are. So far from being a subject fit for light, careless jesting, would it not be a most pitiful and sorrowful thing were all the dishonoring representations true which have been made of that young, beautiful, and, as her detractors even admit, most highly-gifted creature? You would be the last one to laugh, I am sure, if you realized what, in that case, her fate must be. And as to what you say of mysteries, my dear fellow, it seems to me most unreasonable, since you have first to prove that any one has taken any pains to candidly and fairly investigate this matter as far as he had a right to do before spreading the calumnious reports which you r   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       155 nave heard. In some sense we are all, as to the matter of that, mysteries to each other. What do you really know of my heart, or I of yours, intimate as we have been these many years? We take each other on trust, and love each other accordingly; and so must even those do who promise, in the marriage- service, to take each other 'for better or for worse.' We know not, nor have we a right to expect to know, anything of the motives by which that young lady's conduct has been impelled; and until we do we are bound to hope and believe the best we may-to take her also upon trust. Young as she is said to be, what is more likely than that her father, for some bad ends of his own, may have availed himself of her very innocence and purity as the means of betraying her into going with him to those infamous haunts, where, you all admit, she appears by her every action to be in a strangely uncongenial sphere. I will never be- lieve that any human countenance could be so decep- tive as hers would be were she anything but a pure, lofty, noble-minded woman, child though she may be in years; and rest assured that when you and I shall stand hereafter with her before the great white throne, where all hearts are laid bare, and all hidden things are brought to light, we shall find it as I have said. I leave here in the morning, and shall in all proba-     156    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, bility never see that touching and beautiful young face again in this world; but its remembrance, with its unfinished story, will haunt me until that day of vindication which I have predicted, and which I be- lieve will as surely come as that you and I are stand- ing at this moment on this hill-side discussing the question." "And I also believe the same, assuredly," said the Doctor solemnly. "Hal, you are a dear, good, noble fellow; and I am proud of your friendship, for all I do love to try your temper sometimes with my wilful folly," said Frank warmly, and throwing his arm impulsively at the same time around the neck of his friend. Then, in another moment, he had resumed his tone of gay badinage, as hecontinued: "What splendid partners we will make, by-and-by; you shall do all the special pleading, and I'll act by turns the part of antagonist to draw you out, and then of juryman completely won over by your eloquence, as I have been this morning. With your strong, manly judgment you have all the tenderness of a woman's heart; and should I ever chance to be slandered in your presence, I know that you would come to my rescue, and defend me so eloquently as to convince people not only of my being a good man, but a real, live angel; a little hair-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       157 brained and harum-scarum, perhaps, but still not enough so to impair my claims to angelichood, which, considering I am not a woman, would be a wonderful degree of condescension, too, from so avowed and de- voted a champion of the fair sex. I believe you'd be willing to take their brains as well as their softness of heart." "Ah! Frank," said Hal, in the same serious, gentle voice, in which he had spoken during the whole previous conversation, " even you couldn't if you would, but I know in reality you wouldn't if you could, laugh me out of my appreciation and respect for woman's na- ture as God made it, and intended it to be. I wonder if there was ever a man who felt himself capable of acting a worthy and honorable part in life, who did not also feel and acknowledge that he was indebted for it all to some good, pure, high-toned, unselfish, loving wo- man's influence over him. You and I agree perfectly on this point. I couldn't love you as I do, were I not sure of this. But there is a great fashion among men, as well as among the would-be especially clever women of the present day, to disparage woman's brains. Now while I have little patience with that strong-minded, unfeminine portion of the sex, who are for ever striv- ing to parade their own unusual cleverness, or to thrust themselves into positions not intended for, or suited "     158    HEAVEXNWARD LED; OR, to them, I do, in my heart of hearts, revere and honor that gentle, unobtrusive sisterhood, whom they affect to despise, who are true to the natures God gave them; and strong, not in their powers of ridicule and satire, and captious criticism of others, but in their wise, calm, discriminating judgment; their gentle charity, pity, and tenderness; and their meek, patient endurance of the domestic martyrdom to which they are sometimes called for love's sake. How beauti- fully some Christian women exemplify, in their simple earnest lives, the meaning of the Scripture require- ment of us all: ' To do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with our God.' We both know such women, Frank, and for their dear sakes we will speak gently and reverently of all; and shield and protect, as far as we can, even the most forlorn and wretched outcast wearing the same garb, and sharing, however slightly, either their womanly strength or their wo- manly weakness." "Well done, Hal! my fine fellow, that is a splendid peroration. You certainly have surpassed even yourself to-day, and it has done me good to hear you, as well as to see the glow of enthusiasm over- spreading your face while speaking. I only wish a certain fair lady, whose society you once affected very strongly, could have been present; surely she never   THE TWO BEQUESTS.        159 afterwards could have found it in her heart to throw herself away upon your richer rival, had he been even a prince; for such a heart and head as yours are worth more than any patent of nobility. The only complaint I have to make of you is that you failed to quote Schiller's beautiful tribute to woman- hood. With your exquisite modulations and intona- tions of voice, what justice you might have done Ger- many's gifted poet, here in his own fatherland! but as you have lost the opportunity, and have failed also to exhibit the fine taste and appreciation which might have been expected from you, I shall have to revenge myself, by repeating a few lines at least, in my own slipshod fashion: 'Alive, as the wind-harp, how lightly soever If wooed by the zephyr, to music will quiver, Is woman to hope and to fear. Ah, tender one! still at the shadow of grieving, Iow quiver the chords--how thy bosom is heaving-- How trembles thy glance through the tearl *   *   *   *x   *   *x --- Woman her throne by persuasion defends; O'er the realm of the manners her sceptre extends; Our strength she subdues to her will. All forces at war with each other she charms; The discord she quenches, the hate she disarms i Ever binding what flies from her still.'     160     IEA VENWARDl LED; OR, And so, with my respected fellow-advocate, I concur in the sentiment: Ionor to woman I to her it is given To garden the earth with the roses of heaven.' And by so doing hope I have reinstated myself en- tirely in his good opinion. But come, let's be going; for here we have been standing discussing first one particular woman, and then the sex in general, for at least half an hour. However, our good friend, the doctor, being a poor married man, has doubtless availed himself of the opportunity to take notes, which he will keep by him, as what the cooks call a' stock- pot,' from which he 'll be hereafter concocting all man- ner of tender epistles to his heart's dear frau." They turned back the way they came after this, and Isabella rose up from her uncomfortable and stooping posture, under the iocky shelf. Her body was numbed and cramped, but that was little com- pared to the mental torture she had endured, whilst compelled to overhear a conversation not intended for her ears, and the greater part of it relating to herself. So repugnant had this been to her feelings, that she had tried to stop her ears several times, but the sound of the words would penetrate in- spite of herself; and then, with what bitter anguish, was she made to   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       161 realize that all her worst apprehensions regarding the injurious opinions she had given people occasion to form of her were but too well founded! She shud- dered at the sound of the words which expressed these sentiments, and contained accusations of evil thoughts and purposes, which it had never even entered into her innocent child-heart to conceive of. It would have pained and shocked her sensitive and refined feelings to be so much talked of in any way. But how perfectly unendurable it seemed, that such associations should be connected with her name. Her father! her own father, to whom she had looked so lovingly and trustingly for guidance and protection, to think how shamefully he had abused her confidence, and how heartlessly he had returned her love! Could she ever bear to call his name again, or to look at his unblushing face? never, certainly, could she forgive him. These had been some of the thoughts and reflections which passed tumultuously through her mind during part of the above conversation; but, gradually, better feelings had been stirred within her, as with a thrill of delight she had listened to the noble and beautiful words which had been spoken in her defence, in, a voice, whose tones she was sure she could never forget. What strength, courage, and com- fort they had brought to her heart! How earnestly "*       L     162    HEAVENWARD LED; OR,  e she would strive to justify the high opinion he had expressed of her character! Feeling no longer a child in anything, but a woman with a woman's noble mission before her; there was in her step even more than its wonted dignity, as she walked back to the place where she had left Bridget and the valet, while from her face had fled every vestige of anger and agitation, leaving only an expression denoting high resolve and noble purpose. In her little basket she carried back only a solitary sprig of fern, which she pressed and placed on a blank leaf of her diary, writing under it, in commemoration of the day, simply the words, "To do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God." Earnestly she longed to go quietly home, and spend the rest of her days in seclusion; but her father's health was very feeble, and he urged her so piteously to stay a little longer that she consented, trying to endure "meekly and patiently her domestic martyrdom," and resolving at the same time to exercise a wise discri- minating judgment in avoiding all that was evil and injurious. No longer trusting her father's representations, she made close and careful observations for herself, both regarding the objects and the persons which sur- rounded her; and what wonder if in doing so she be-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       163 came more suspicious and critical than it was wise or happy for her to be.  She kept herself still much apart from her equals and fellow-travellers, mingling with them merely as a courteous observer and listener, who had few interests or sympathies in common with them, and more and more she learned to distrust and dislike all display or profession of feeling, and to shrink within herself. Being thought, in her turn, ex- ceedingly cold, unresponsive, and exclusive, the sweet- ness and the tenderness of her feelings she showed only to the poor and unfortunate, by whom she was regarded, wherever she travelled, as a friend and benefactress. She availed herself, however, of every opportunity to cultivate her mind, and her taste for music and painting; so that, in spite of the pain and mortification which her father's conduct occasioned, her life on the continent was not wholly without its enjoyments; and the motive was ever present with her to rise superior to all that was calculated to depress her, and to injure her self-respect, and to fulfil her own individual responsibilities so blamelessly as to prove, at least, to herself, that she was not unworthy of the confidence of that noble heart, which, with its cheering prophecies and its penetrating charity, had helped her to realize even her own in- nocence, and to look forward, in tranquil security, to     164     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, a day of perfect vindication, on that memorable, never- to-be-forgotten June morning. Rather more than a year had passed in the manner related above, since that day, when, for her father's health, they came again to Baden-Baden to enjoy the benefit of its hot baths, for he was suffering much with rheumatic gout. This confined him, most of the time, to his rooms at the house where they lodged. Isabella had determined that it was her duty to be respectful and attentive to him, in spite of all the injury which she must ever feel that she had suffered from him, and which she thought she could never entirely for- give, were he even to become the most sincere and humble penitent that ever lived; as she felt pretty sure it was an impossibility with one so long hardened and confirmed in all that was false and evil. Still the Bible told her to honor her parent, and she would try to obey its precepts on her own account, and let him answer for himself hereafter. In making these resolves, she felt some pride and comfort in the thought that in such conduct on her part, there would be both magnanimity and heroism. Thus, strengthen ed by this reflection, Isabella was not only able to check every impatient expression of either anger, disgust, or mortification, but to treat him   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       165 with such marked courtesy, gentleness, and attention, that one could scarcely have realized the coldness of her feelings to him meanwhile, and her utter con- tempt for his baseness and meanness, and especially for his falseness. She made it a rule to spend a por- tion of each day in trying to amuse him in some in- nocent manner. If he was well, they walked together to the fountains and baths, she taking as much pains to try to make her conversation interesting and agree- able, by the way, as if she had been entertaining a guest or a friendly acquaintance, and withholding, with equal care, all personal observations or confidential communications. Or if he were confined to the house, she carried to his room her books for his amusement, and played and sang for him when he grew tired of reading or talking. But as soon as his friends came to visit him, she always rose immediately, and left the room where they were, so abruptly as to allow no opportunity for an introduction to be made; thus they followed their separate life-paths while living under the same roof, each knowing little of the other's plans and purposes. From this state of comparative rest, and quiet of mind, however, she was most painfully aroused. Very frequently her father had parties of his friends to spend evenings with him in his private parlor, to be-     166    .HEAVENWARD LED; OR, guile him of the wearisomeness ot his confinement to the house. Isabella made no inquiries as to their mode of amusing themselves, of which, in fact, she was only too glad to be kept as far as possible in ig- norance. Often, however, the sound of boisterous mirth would penetrate even through her closed door, and make her pause in her own occupation, and her brow contract with pain; but little did she ever dream that her own name could ever be breathed in those unhallowed assemblies. She had dismissed Bridget quite early one night, and was seated, dressed simply in her morning wrap- per, which she had slipped on for greater ease and freedom in her motions-at her writing-table, on which lay quite a number of long letters and papers closely written in a business-hand. They had reached her by that tday's mail, and she was now closely examining and pondering their contents, with an ex- pression of grave, severe thought on her face, pre- paring, as it seemed, to act upon their suggestions. Her father was evidently holding one of his cus- tomary carousals in the room below, for the stillness around her had been frequently broken by the sounds of loud voices and laughter, the rattling of dice, and the shuffling and dealing of cards. After a while these noises died away, and were succeeded by a low   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       167 murmur, which lasted some ten or fifteen minutes, and then suddenly the deep meditation into which she had fallen was disturbed by the noise made by the door of the room below being hastily opened, and her father's voice was heard at the foot of the stairs, call- ing her name in a quick, excited tone. Supposing, from the previous silence, that his friends had left him, and that he must be ill, she sprang up in haste and alarm, and ran down to his assistance, just as she was, in her loose dressing-wrapper, and with her hair flowing negligently over her shoulders, for it was im- mensely thick, and had a fashion of slipping from under the teeth of her comb when put up loosely for the night. As she reached the staircase, her father was just turning to go again into the room, and beckoned her to follow him, in a strange, quiet man- ner that by no means lessened her excitement and alarm. Quickening her steps, she found herself standing, breathless, almost before she knew what she was doing, in the midst of the room, where were seated at a round table six or eight red-faced men, with glasses, bottles, cards and dice scattered in confusion around them, and before she had collected herself sufficiently to think of making her retreat, her father introduced her to these men, saying: ta     168    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, "This is my daughter Isabella, gentlemen, and I challenge any man here to deny what I've said of her. She is the very queen of grace and beauty. But as to her marrying any of you, why that is a different question. If you had the wealth of the Indias, I 'd leave her to decide for herself, and you shall hear what she says. My daughter, here is Baron Von' Starchie, who asks me for your hand. What have you to say to him, Queen Isabella?-for you know that your word is my law always." The wretched man was perfectly beside himself with drink, as his daughter immediately perceived. Drawing herself up to her full height, she looked him in the face with a countenance expressing mingled indignation, contempt and pity, as she replied: "Only to remind you, sir, that I am the grand- daughter of the Hon. Judge Charles Ashton, of Ash- ton Park; a gentleman in habits and character, as well as by birth and education; and since you are so little aware of what is due to me, and so entirely un- fit to be my protector, I bid you farewell, for it is high time I chose some better guardian." Her voice, as she spoke, was calm, quiet, and de- cided; and she swept immediately out of the room before he could utter another word, leaving him almost sobered with consternation when he began to   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       169 reflect upon what had passed. Some of his friends were almost equally dismayed and abashed at the con- dition in which they had appeared before the eyes of that beautiful and stately woman, whose feelings of disgust and horror had been so plainly written on her face, " severe in youthful beauty " as that of the re- proving cherub in Paradise Lost. Baron Von Starchie, however, was not a very acute observer or a man of sensitive feelings, and under- stood English so imperfectly, that he was quite at a loss to comprehend what had passed. Turning to Cap- tain Ashton, he asked quickly, in his broken English: ' Vare well, and what have her said of it, my friend de Capitaine, and why have her gone so soon?" This produced a general laugh, much to the aston- ishment of the baron, and to the increased confusion, mortification, and embarrassment of the father, who could only stammer out hastily: "Gentlemen, pray excuse me, to-night. My old enemy has come back so violently upon me that I am in almost too much pain to speak at all. My dear baron, will you be kind enough to call again to-mor- row evening for our little settlements, and for my daughter's answer," he continued, more gravely and courteously than he had before spoken on the subject, for as he became more sober, he began to realize that 15     170    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, her answer might offend the baron, who was evidently in earnest, though he had been regarding the matter as a jest. After his guests were gone, Capt. Ashton sat crouch- ing over a few coals on the hearth, for his sickness made him chilly, and he was rarely without a fire in his sitting room, mornings and evenings. He had been drinking more continuously for some weeks past than he was ac- customed to do, and was now suffering in his weakened nervous system from the reactionary effect, as his ex- citement began to wear off. Drink was apt always, too, to make him silly and childish, instead of quick- ening and brightening his faculties temporarily, as it not unfrequently does. As he sat and pondered in his mind his daughter's last words to him,.which he had not fully realized at first, his teeth chattered with a vague feeling of terror, and then he shed a few maudlin tears. Finally he rose, and crept softly to the door of her chamber, where he paused for some moments listening to find out whether she were still up. Hearing her moving about the room he knocked timidly, receiving no answer; he repeated his knock more loudly, and at the same time began to beg that his daughter would let him speak to her for a single moment; and presently the door was opened, and Isabella stood again before him, with the same look   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       171 of contemptuous pity in her face, as she said to him: "Excuse me, sir, if you please, from listening to- night to your excuses and apologies. I am very much engaged in making preparations for my journey. In the morning I will hear whatever you have to say." "Oh! my daughter," he cried, " you will not desert your miserable father entirely. I can never forgive myself for what has passed, but I pray you not to forsake me. Try to reclaim me, and I'll promise to obey you like a child." The tears rolled down his cheeks as he spoke, and Isabella was moved with pity, in spite of her anger and contempt. In a somewhat softened tone, though at the same time with calm, quiet decision, she replied: "In the morning, sir, you shall hear what I have to say, and I will listen also as patiently as I can to you. It is impossible for me to make you any promises to-night ;" and she was about to close the door, but he thrust in his head and cried in the tone of a supplicating child: "Just one promise, my dear daughter, and I 'll ask nothing more until the morning. You won't start to-night, will you? You won't slip off before the morning, will you, my pet?"     172    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, With one great effort she controlled the feeling of sickening contempt which this appeal produced, and replied with dignity: "You must surely know, sir, that it is not my habit to cheat and deceive at any time; my word has always, thus far, been sacredly kept. I have told you that in the morning I would speak to you, and I now repeat it. Let that suffice, and allow me to close my door, if you please." He walked away, after this, to his own room, look- ing very mean and miserable. All symptoms of pain and rheumatic gout had passed away, and he began collecting his things in haste, and packing his trunk, that he might be ready to accompany his daughter. He had left his own door partially open, and paused every now and then to listen, unable to rid himself entirely of his suspicious fears that she might be going to slip off without his knowledge; which was a sufficient proof that he was not quite sober yet, as had he been, he must surely have known that such an act of decep- tion was impossible to her clear, candid, brave heart. The morning came, however, at length, and they had their interview. Isabella told him, without at first a single word of reproach or of reminder of what had occurred the previous night, but with an air of quiet, firm decision, which left no room for remon-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       173 strance or objection on his part, that she had deter- mined to leave Baden-Baden that morning, ard to return immediately to Ireland to consult with her guardians as to her future life, and also to make some arrangements regarding her property, as they had written her letters of caution about her very lavish expenditures, and sent her long bills to examine, and at the same time reminded her, as they said they had promised her aunts to do, of the last clause in their will. As she approached this subject her manner became more reproachful. "Now, sir," she said, "I feel that I have been to blame in this matter; much money, as these bills and accounts show me, must have been applied to those purposes which my aunts so loathed that they could not help making this urgent appeal to my honor to guard their money from being so misapplied, although they forbore to mention my father's name in connec- tion with anything disreputable, knowing, I suppose, that in time I should learn to comprehend the mean- ing of words which did puzzle me once. It is painful to me to withhold any money from you over which I have the control, and on this account I have asked no questions, and tried to hope that your gambling funds were drawn from some other resources of your own. It was childish and wrong to do so, and now I must 15*     174    HEA VENWARD LED; OR, be faithful to my duty. But I confess that I am at a loss how to act. Were it not for my young brothers and sisters in America-whom I cannot selfishy de- sert, knowing what alone can be expected for them under such protection as you will give them-I should, as I intimated to you last night, remain in Ireland with my guardians. For their sakes, however, I would gladly go to America, and share everything I have with those nearest and dearest to me; but I cannot and will not consent to live again under the same roof with you, unless you give up your evil associates and lead a better life." "Oh, my daughter, my queen, I have done very wrong, I know, but I am truly, truly penitent now, and I will be a different man, so help me God. But don't abandon me-you who are the pride of my heart. I will promise anything you wish. What can I do to convince you of my sincerity, and make you trust me?" answered her father. "You can do nothing at present, papa, but give me your most solemn promise, which I am willing to trust once more, that you will renounce all your evil com- panions, return immediately to the quiet and retire- ment of your own home, with your own children, and try to lead a wholly different life. Upon this condi- tion I am willing once more to live with you as your ,   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       175 daughter, and gladly and freely to share with you my last dollar, only not one other cent of my aunts' money must be spent in vice! Remember that! I am compelled to remind you of it, sir. As long as you shall observe your pledged word to me, I will treat you with the deference and respect which, as your daughter, I owe to you. Gladly would I promise, if I could, to feel it also; and I will never expose what has passed between us to the knowledge of any living human being, but will shield you, if I can, from blame and disgrace. But if you cannot consent to these terms, we must part now and for ever. I owe something to myself and to my ancestry, but to you all obligations are discharged, unless you can re- nounce the shameful and disgraceful practices which have already embittered and clouded my life since I have known you. It is for you now to decide, papa." Not until he had himself promised, as he had a few moments before done, to reform, had she addressed him by that name since she entered his room the night be- fore. In reply to her last remarks he answered: "Most solemnly do I promise, my daughter, to do all that you ask. And gladly will I leave this detest- able spot, which has been the scene of my disgrace. I shall never see these men again, I hope, and will     176    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, try to choose a better set of acquaintances when we settle down at home." Very well, papa, I trust you again, and may God keep you from again deceiving me. I will try to for- get, even, the past, if you will improve for the future, and you shall never be reminded of it by word or look from me as long as you keep your promise. It is un- necessary to prolong this interview. Please be kind enough to make the necessary arrangements for our immediate departure." With these words Isabella made a hasty retreat from the room, seeing a motion on her father's part which indicated his intention of sealing their recon- ciliation with a paternal kiss. She had no wish for any such proof of his affection, and did not consider that she owed him anything more than respectful, pa- tient forbearance and forgiveness; yet she had no desire to wound his feelings by showing the repug- nance of her own towards him. "    i'   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       1" CHAPTER SIXTH. SECOND DAY AT ASHTON PARK. HE   visit to Ireland was made, and all , Isabella's business affairs were settled; and  the travellers, as the beginning of our story shows, had safely reached their home at Ashton Park; where we are glad to report that Captain Ashton's second day was spent more happily than his first had been. When he entered the break- fast room the next morning, at the summons of the bell, a sweet picture of homelike comfort met his eye. Though still only September, the bright cheerful blaze from the fire was grateful to the sight as well-as to he feelings, for the air was unusually chilly for the eason; and its ruddy glow made still more inviting he pretty, tastefully arranged breakfast table, with ts dainty napkins, and bright glass and silver ware. kbout the whole room, as well as the table, there was that indescribable air of exquisite refinement, neat- ess, and order, betokening womanly thought, and are, which can make home so sweet, and give a relish M     s178   :HEAVENWARD LED; OR, to the simplest meal. Ellen had placed by each of the plates intended for her father and sister, a little glass containing a few tea-rose buds, and sprigs of heliotrope, and geranium, culled from her own pet plants, the fragrance of which pervaded the whole room.  The great old-time stuffed arm chair was, drawn out of its accustomed corner, and by it stood the little dark mahogany stand with the large well- worn family Bible and Book of Common Prayer upon it., Ellen, Ceorge, and little Rosa-who was all muf- fled up in a warm sack on account of her indisposition the previous night--were seated round the fire, each with a small prayer book in hand, ready to read their responses in the Psalter for the day, such having always been the custom'of the house in conducting family worship. As the father entered the room each child rose and went forward to greet him with a kiss and bid him "good-morning," and for the first time since his arrival, he returned their affectionate salutations with cordial warmth, and smiled as he looked round upon the pleasant scene, that was most grateful to his feelings in the softened mood which last night's reflec- tions had produced. He could not be called towards any one, an implacable or unforgiving man; his natural temper was indeed rather an easy one, as it is   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       179 called, although a long course of dissipation, a dis- turbed conscience, and his broken health, made him now often sour and morose. In the forgiveness of his own trespasses, however, and in the ready acceptance of his own professions and purposes of amendment, he continued as he had always been, marvellously facile. Accordingly, having this morning freely for- given himself, and made abundant resolutions regard- ing his future conduct, he felt almost as much complacency as he might had he already tested and proved his sincerity and strength, and by his actions shown himself to be the new man he had resolved to become. And this change in his humor wrought its corresponding change in his appearance. With his fine, clearly cut features, and tall well-proportioned figure, he would have been regarded as a strikingly handsome man, had not the wreck and ruin of his inner structure wrought tell-tale ravages also upon the outer fabric. Captain Ashton's countenance, and his air, now made so unfavorable a general impression, that one seldom paused to think much of the mere mould in which his material substance had been cast. But his children's partial eyes saw him only in the most favorable light, and they watched all his movements this morning with affectionate pride and admiration.     180    HEA VENWARD LED; OR, After inquiring about little Rosa's indisposition, he caressed her, and romped with her, and rode her on his back for a few minutes, and then as he put her down again on the floor, called out cheerfully, "Come now, let's have breakfast! What are we waiting for?" He asked that question upon finding that George and Ellen had taken their seats again by the fire, and then, for the first time, he observed the arrangements which had been made for him to conduct family prayers. Ellen's countenance expressed the innocent surprise which George gave vent to in words as he exclaimed, "Why, father! you forget, you haven't read prayers yet, sir!" With a confused, embarrassed manner, he sank down into the chair placed for him, and reached out his hand as if to take the Bible from the table, then withdrew it again, and turning to Ellen, said: "You had better read, my daughter; I haven't my glasses."  Never doubting the reality of his excuse for a moment, nor pausing to think of herself or her own feelings, she immediately did as he requested her, and in a simple but reverent manner read the "Form of Family Prayer for the Morning," appointed in the Prayer-Book. By a singular coincidence the parable of the prodigal son was the lesson for the day; and   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       181 read as impressively and sweetly as it was by Ellen, was well calculated to touch the heart of this newly- returned, poor wanderer. He did not, however, appear very attentive to the sacred words, for he yawned several times while they were being read. George and Rosa both noticed this, and wondered; but when they further observed that instead of kneeling during the prayer he kept his seat, and merely bowed his head upon his breast and gazed into the fire, they could scarcely attend to their own devotions, so strong was their inclination to steal their eyes round, and watch him all the time with curious attention. He must, indeed, have closed his ear's to the words of the prayer, or surely he would have been con- strained to fall upon his knees and join in the petition so remarkably suited to his own case at that parti- cular time: "But, oh God, who knowest the weak- ness and corruption of our nature, and the manifold temptations which we daily meet with, we humbly beseech thee to have compassion on our infirmities, and to give us the constant assistance of thy Holy Spirit, that we may be effectually restrained from sin, and excited to our duty." And who can tell what effectual strength might not in answer have been vouchsafed to his better thoughts and purposes; 16     182    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, which, weak and unstable as they were, had already afforded him so much solace and comfort? Isabella, having passed so wakeful and restless a night, did not rise very early the next morning; and the little household were on their knees when she entered the breakfast-room. Her astonishment was great, and she wondered who had proposed having prayers; not her father, she was sure. Had she been more ignorant than she was of his character, it would not have required a second glance at him, and the irreverent, inattentive, bored manner with which. he submitted to being present, to convince her of this. But during all their eighteen months' residence abroad he had very rarely remained with her in church during the services, contenting himself with escorting her to the door, and waiting there on the outside for her, or returning to take her home- answering, when she had asked him why he would not go in, that he got his gospel for himself directly from heaven, communicated to him by some ancient scholar or renowned statesman in good plain English, telling him exactly his duty on each different occasion without the ambiguity and cant which distinguish the teachings of the different sects of religionists. Dis- gusted as she always was by his allusions to his pro- fessed spiritualism-in the sincerity of which profes-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       183 sions she had not the smallest faith-she carefully avoided giving him the opportunity of referring to the subject again, and left him quietly to follow his own whims, delusions, or whatever they might be called. It still, however, seemed to her very remarkable that her gentle, modest little sister should have had the courage voluntarily to perform the office of domes- tic chaplain. She felt sure she could never have read prayers, even had she been asked, so timidly would she have shrunk back from the appearance of assuming to herself a character for superior piety and goodness. She could hardly understand Ellen's per- fect freedom from all restraint on such occasions, arising, as it did, from the simple fact that she was so engrossed in the act as to lose consciousness of herself as the actor. Her religion was so much a part of her inner life, that without any design or effort it was ever making itself known and felt by spontaneous words and actions, flowing out from the abundance of her heart. And about what seemed to her so natural and simple a duty as the offering unto God a family thanksgiving for all his mercies and blessings, she could never have felt a moment's hesitation. Her dear, patriarchal, venerable-looking grand- father had been seated daily, for many years, as she well remembered, in the same chair she had placed for     184    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, her father, as morning and evening he gathered his whole household about him to read them the blessed words of love and wisdom, to offer their common thanks- giving, and to implore God's blessing and protection upcn each one of them. Her mother, when he had passed away, had taken his place, and then Ellen and Charhe had kept up the good old custom in their own simple; childlike manner, with little Rosa and George; so that what to Isabella was only a proper and decor- ous form of beginning and ending the day was to Ellen a heartfelt acknowledgment of the goodness and mercy which had followed them all their lives. The improved air of cheerfulness and ease which Isabella soon noticed in the family circle as they were seated around the breakfast-table revived and pleased her. It was by far the most comfortable and happy meal they had yet taken together. She noticed espe- cially the sudden change in her father's manner towards Ellen; and with a feeling of satisfaction not unnaturally attributed it to her conversation with him on the previous night. She knew his weakness and his vacillancy, however, too well to hope that this improvement would last very long. Ellen regarded the change merely as the natural result of rest and renewed health restoring his nerves to their proper equilibrium.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       185 As for George, as he rushed eagerly from the table to make his preparations for school, with a face glow- ing with pleased excitement, and rattling a handful of small coin which his father had just given him, he felt very strongly of the opinion that his father's coming home was growing much more like what he had expected it to be than it had seemed the evening before. "Stop a moment, Georgie, please!" called Ellen to him as he reached the door, adding, as he turned to see what she wanted: "I want you, little brother, to mail my letter to Charlie for me." Then taking up her unsealed letter from the man- telpiece, she drew near her father's chair with it, saying: "Father, here is my letter to Charlie, open, sir, waiting for a message from you and Isabella." "Ah! yes. Well, give him our love, of course," he answered, and went on reading his newspaper. "Give him very much love from me, sister Nell, and tell him I am most impatient to see him," said Isabella warmly, and then turning to their father, she asked-"When is he coming home, papa?" "In the holidays, I suppose. Let me see-I be- lieve there are none before Christmas," he answered. "Father," said Ellen gently, "I told Charlie, in my letter, that I would ask you to consent to his 16G     186    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, coming home now to stay for a little while, that he may see you and Isabella; and all of us together, once more after our long separation. It has been almost a year since he was at home. May I tell him to come, sir?" The father frowned slightly, and said: "I don't like interrupting his studies when he can just as well wait a few weeks for his holiday. Why did he not come home in his regular vacations be- *    fore?" "Because, father," said Ellen, with increased gen- tleness in her voice, and with a timid hesitation of manner, for she felt a delicate anxiety lest she should wound him by what she was compelled to say, "you see there was so very little money for everything that was needed, especially, too, after his long illness the last time he was here. Charhe had none of his own, and he would not let me send him any to pay his travelling expenses; for you know how good and thoughtful he is for every one else. He would deny himself any gratification rather than spend one cent more than will meet his most urgent expenses." Her face glowed with eloquent warmth, and her eyes sparkled with animation, as she added these words in commendation of her dearly-loved brother. Isabella was watching her all the while, with pro-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       187 found interest in every word; and as she studied her countenance with this close scrutiny, she felt that she was more and more a mystery to her, and more and more lovable in each new development of her character. "Umph!" answered the father. "So little money, indeed! Silly child!-it is just as I said yesterday. You 've wasted my money on some foolish trumpery or other. I should like now to know how you have spent all that has been sent you during my absence." "Why, father, did you send a great deal?" asked Ellen with artless astonishment. Her earnest, unconscious manner almost provoked a smile on Isabella's face, who felt pretty sure that their father's fuss about the money he had sent was only for effect. In an easy, careless tone, she said: "You had better compare notes with papa, sister Nell, to see if any has been lost." Ellen, at this suggestion, ran eagerly to her writing- desk and took out her little memorandum-book, where, under its proper date, was entered every little sum of money which she had received from him. "See, papa! this is the whole amount-not such a great deal, is it?" she said warmly, but still a little playfully, as she pointed to the very small sum total. "Yes, it is a good deal for you children to have     188    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, thrown away, I think. Pray, what did you have to buy? Here you were on the farm with almost every- thing you could need around you," he answered. Ellen still kept her sweet, smiling face, feeling very sure she could soon convince him that she had been very careful and frugal. "Ah, father," she said, "you were away, and could not tell how many things must be bought for the farm as well as the house. Just let me show you, sir, how it was, and I don't think you 'll feel that I was very wasteful." "Why, papa!" said Isabella, looking up from the pages of the little book which she had been examin- ing with deep interest and attention, " can it be true that this is all the money Nellie has had to spend in taking care of all these people? And to think how much more we were spending, each month that we were away! If she has kept up this place on that little scrap of money, she must be a fairy, and have some peculiar art of her own in getting things for nothing. You will have to teach it to me now, sister Nell, for I am to be your assistant, you know." As she said this, she glanced with an affectionate smile at Nellie. Your ideas may suit an heiress, like Queen Isa. bella, but remember, Queen, that we were travelling,   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       189 and were both out of health. I was spending your money besides. If I haven't the means of supporting my children at home in equal luxury, they can scarcely blame me for it, since my whole estate has been settled upon them for their future enjoyment. But for the present, at least, I should think they might deny themselves such little trifles as paint-boxes and colored wools and silks, which are useful only in consuming valuable time, as well as money." Captain Ashton gave an injured glance towards Ellen as he finished this unpleasant little speech. Ah, surely he had not already forgotten his last night's reflections, and the resolutions made but a short time since! Ellen's face was suffused with a crimson blush as she replied in her same gentle, respectful manner, showing not the slightest trace of irritation or vex- ation: "You must not for one moment think, dear father, that we were not perfectly content to live just as we have, or that we ever thought of questioning about what you were obliged to spend in other ways. We knew that you sent us what you thought it right to spare for that purpose.- But the paint-boxes and colored wools and silks, dear father, I paid for with     190    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, my own money; so don't be vexed at that extrava- gance any more." These words were added in a tender, caressing voice, and were surely calculated not only to touch and soften his heart, but to make him thoroughly ashamed; he did look a little so, as well as surprised, as he asked: "Your 'own money!' and where did you get so much money of your own, I should like to know?" "Money that I have earned by this pretty little fancy work which you have spoken so slightingly of, sir. You will appreciate my little articles better, now, since they are useful and profitable, as well as ornamental. Will you not, father?" she asked, with winning sweetness. "Why, yes, that is much better than I thought," he answered blandly; then, as he suddenly caught a sight of Isabella's countenance, which was watching his intently, he added in a quick, hurried manner: "Here, send this ten dollar bill at once to Charles, and tell him to come home. Don't detain George later than you can help; he ought to be off now to school."                * George was standing on the threshold of the door, and Isabella now passed him hurriedly, and with blushing face, on her way to her own room. He heard   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       191 her whisper, after she was outside of the door, speaking to herself: "To think of her having to sell her own work! Most disgraceful, truly!" He could not un- derstand exactly what she meant; but concluded that she must think there was some disgrace attending his sister Nellie's little sales, in which he was very sure she was much mistaken. He had carried the parcels himself to Mr. Kirkwell's large Picture and Fancy Store, and felt so proud as he heard the admiring ex- clamations which were made as he displayed the col- lection of beautiful wax-flowers, paintings, and pretty, ingenious contrivances for use as well as for ornament. He knew, too, that she had paid for his schooling, and for many other things besides, with the money thus made, and had taken much pride in her cleverness, thinking it quite as good to be very clever as to be very rich. After puzzling his brain ineffectually in trying to understand why Isabella was not pleased, he concluded that he had better wait and ask Mammy Polly and Rosa about it at bed-time. And so, whist- ling and singing with careless light-heartedness, he quickened his steps, lest he should be late at school, little suspecting the sad dreariness of heart with which he should retrace them in the evening-poor little boy! The family at the Park were quite comfortable and     192    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, happy together that day. Rosa did not forget Mammy Polly's promise to take a dose of medicine for her, and that good old soul, never feeling that she was in too sound health to be benefited by one, was nothing loath to gratify her darling; and so the pretty flaxen-haired child, who manifested a precocious apt- ness and skill in ministering to the sick, imitating always closely her mammy's mode of procedure, held in one of her hands the little cup of physic, and in the other her own especial pet mug, with some milk in it, for mammy to rinse her mouth afterwards, never doubting that its sweetness would be greatly increased by that same little pictured mug's being used to hold it. With a serious business-like air she handed first one and then the other to Mmmy Polly, and watched to see that she made no wry faces. Then giving the cups to a servant to wash, she patted the old woman's shoulders and tpromised her many good things "by- and-by." Isabella called Nellie in her room to help her to unpack and look over the contents of her trunks and boxes, which had arrived that day from Ireland. There were many beautiful, rare and antique things to be examined and admired, and Rosa was kept both busy and happy, helping. Mammy Polly and Bridget to put away the smaller articles which could be   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       193 trusted in her hands, while her heart was also re- joiced by a huge pile of gifts of different values. From a complete little winter outfit, including a tiny muff and tippet to various little scraps and odds and ends to which she had taken a whimsical fancy. The elder sisters watched with amusement and pleasure her little womanly busy ways of disposing of her va- rious treasures; and talked with earnest warmth together of their plans for their future home-life, real- izing the comfort they were to find in each other's society and companionship. Isabella was intent, too, upon having the house and grounds done up, and everything arranged and car- ried on there in the good old style of her grand- parents, and drew very glowing pictures of her pro- jected schemes for effecting this, as if forgetting, in her newly awakened childlike hopefulness, for the moment, the, one great drawhack to the complete ful- filment of her wishes.      I When the hour for dinner came, they met their father at the table, who looked cheerful and pleasant as he spoke of having met various acquaintances in the city. "But," he said, turning to Isabella with a meaning look, "I told them we had come to live quietly at home, now, and should do very little gad- 17        N V         N     194    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, ding abroad, having had quite enough of that sort of thing in our late travels." "Yes," said Isabella warmly, "we shall be fully and delightfully occupied in cultivating our dear home circle for some weeks; and then the dear old place, too, needs attention and improvement. After that is all done, we 'll be as ready to give a warm, hospitable welcome, under our own roof, to our friends as were ever the ancestors whose places we ought to fill." She had determined to try, on every occasion, to rouse something like family pride in her father's heart, by reminding him of their honorable pedigree, hoping it might exert a healthful moral influence over him, and that by gathering a cheerful and pleasant social circle about their own home, perhaps he might gradually become more disposed to find his amusements there, and to keep, as he had promised her, out of the way of bad company. For the sake of her brothers and sisters, whom she was now beginning to love tenderly, she was prompted to make this last effort. If this failed, he must just go down to ruin and still further degradation; but she could wash her hands of all responsibility, and say that she had done her very utmost to save him. "Why, what is the matter with'the house, Queen? It seems well enough to me. It always was a gloomy   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       195 old place; but one of these days I suppose it will be sold, and will bring quite as much as it is as if you should spend your money doing it up; and we are likely to have plenty of company, I assure you, with- out offering them any especial inducement to visit us. People always find out quick enough when there's money in a family, and flock like cormorants after it," said Captain Ashton, in reply to Isabella's remarks. "The Park to be sold! Oh! father, must that ever be?"Ellen asked, with great concern and distress in her countenance and voice. "Tut, tut, I said some day, I supposed. For pity's sake, don't begin lamenting over what cannot happen for some time at least. The place is not mine, or I should have sold it long ago, and have bought a good, comfortable modern city house; but my poor father had the old family prejudice in favor of the place, and in order to retain it in the family has fixed it so that. no sale can be made before even Miss Rosa there is of age. Then I should certainly advise its being sold, and there'll be money enough to make you all rich. In the meantime we shall have to borrow from Queen Isabella, I suppose, for I find that the farm yields little or nothing." Ellen looked with inquiring surprise at her father, as if hoping to be further enlightened by him, and then     196    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, turned, with an anxious troubled glance, towards her sister. She had never heard of her grandfather's will, and was at a loss to understand what was meant by the repeated declarations which she had heard, since her father's return, about the Park's not being his. Of Isabella's fortune she knew, but had never thought much about it; and now heard with amaze- ment and distress, that they were all to be dependent upon that for their maintenance. "Sister Nell, why are you staring so wildly at me?" asked Isabella laughingly; then she added, more gravely and very kindly: "You know that I was sold to my aunts for their fortune; a very handsome price, too, it is that they paid for me, dear old ladies. And surely I could not spend it more profitably, or pleasantly, than in purchasing for myself the inestimable privilege of knowing, loving, and living with my owr sisters and brothers. I should feel most truly ashamed, besides, if I supposed any one could imagine m3 capable of enjoying wealth which they do not freely and equally share. So don't trouble your dear little head any more on that subject. But papa, I do not see why the farm does not yield also a very handsome income." She added, "you have often spoken of the value of the land." f     THE TWO BEQUESTS.       197 "I dare say it might be made very available in the hands of one accustomed to farming, of which I know nothing. I spoke of the value of the land, with refer- ence to its being sold. So near as it is to yon great city, it would bring a splendid price," replied her father. "But why not rent out the fields, and have them properly cultivated by some one who understands the business? It can only be through the greatest mis- management, certainly, that the whole family fail to be amply and abundantly provided with means and resources strictly and unquestionably their own," she replied, not prompted, in the smallest degree, by a de- sire to save her own property, but simply by the sug- gestions of her naturally business-like, sagacious turn for prudent management. She realized too, with delicate appreciation, what the feelings of her elder sister and brother were likely to be under the circumstances in which their father proposed to place them, by his negligent inattention and selfish indifference to their interests. From this injustice she felt a generous desire to shield them, and thus spoke out in their behalf alone. "Oh! yes, father," said Ellen warmly, "you know I wrote you that Mr. Hummer and Ivr. Alexander were both anxious to rent parts of the farm, and had 17      198    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, asked me to write to you about it; but you did not tell me what answer I should give them, and so I was obliged to say they must wait till you returned." "The cunning scoundrels! I understood their game at once," was all the reply he made to her, for he well knew that he had borrowed largely from these men, promising to repay them with interest when he  should come into possession of the Ashton estate, which not having ever done, he had considered his debt to them not binding, and he now with justice suspected them of trying to make something off of the land, to repay themselves, under the pretext of renting. Turning afterwards thoughtfully to Isabella, he said, "I'll tell you what I shall have to do, Queen; I shall have to put everything under your control: you 'll manage splendidly I have'nt a doubt, for you remember how acute your Irish lawyers thought you. 'Then you can alter the house to please yourself, or do what you choose. Your will, as I have often told you, shall be my law. I know nothing about busi- ness affairs, though, and don't wish to be plagued with them. So remember I'm not to be lectured any more about the fields, or tenants, or any of that sort of thing." So saying, he rose, and after lighting his cigar left the room, feeling well pleased, as he reflected /   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       199 how easily he could now escape from the importunities of his two creditors, and would-be tenants, with the convenient excuse that his daughter managed every- thing. The terms upon which the money had been lent him prevented these men from bringing a suit against him, and left the payment of their debt a matter of conscience and honor with him. They probably had not realized how poorly he was endowed with either, although they were not much more gifted themselves in this respect. "Isabella, do you know what your hair reminds me of?" asked Ellen, laying her hand softly on her sister's head as they sat chatting together by the fire in the dusk of the same evening. "Not in the least, Nell, pray tell me." "Why, of one of those gorgeous sunsets we some- times have, when a great dark cloud suddenly over- takes a flood of light, and is converted by it into a bank of dusky gold, which throws a sort of halo over the surrounding landscape." "That's worthy of a poet as well as a painter, sweet little sister; but you must not flatter me. Your admiration would make me very vain; I might say very sweet things to you, too, but that I am so little in the habit of complimenting-I think much more than I say."     200    HEA VENWARD LED; OR, "Nor would I pay idle compliments to any one, much less to you, dear; but God has given us to each other, and surely it cannot be wrong to admire as well as to love his gifts, when they are, too, so worthy of our admiration. I am truly and heartily thankful to him that my sister is so very beautiful that I can feast my eyes upon her and gratify and cultivate, in so doing, the taste which he has given me," said Nellie. "Stop, Nell, stop [ I can't let you go on at that rate: why, with your soft, quiet, dove's voice, you do say the most intoxicating things! enough to turn the wisest maiden's head. And who would expect such things from that sweet, innocent, child's face either," Isabella exclaimed, and laughingly laid her hand on her sister's lips. "I am not afraid of making you vain, my sister, for of course you know as well as I do that you are beautiful; but the intoxicating effect of that know- ledge is, doubtless, counter-balanced by the sobering reflection, that for each gift bestowed, there must be rendered to the Giver a suitable return. We are not our own but have been bought with a price you know, dearest."  Isabella made no reply, but was about to change the subject, when George came in and made, as she thought, a timely interruption in their conversation.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       201 "Why, little brother, you are late from school this evening," said Ellen, as he drew near them with a downcast dispirited air. "I am afraid you were kept in, Georgie, were you not?" she continued, and upon looking at him more closely, as she spoke, she observed a bruise on the side of his face. He bowed his head in the affirmative, without speaking, and she forbore to question him further; but felt puzzled and grieved. It was so rare a thing for him to get into disgrace of any kind at school, and his whole appearance was so different from usual, that she could not help feeling anxious and troubled about him. After remaining quiet a little while, the child seemed to make an effort to rally his spirits, and drawing very close to Isabella, began fingering her curls, and then her watch-chain and pendants, and then suddenly asked: "Isabella, what must I call you for the short of your name?" "Indeed, Georgie, I am sure I don't care much. But I don't believe that I was ever called in my life by the short of my name, as you call it," she answered smilingly. "How would Issy do, I wonder?  I might say Bella, like Harry Daws cals his sister; but when the t     202     HEA VENWARD LED; OR, boys want to tease him they ask if his sister has been bellowing at him to-day." Isabella laughed merrily as she said: "But you don't mind the fun the boys make, do you? I think Bella, or Belle either, is prettier than Issy." "Oh, yes, I do mind what they say," George an- swered gravely; "and if I was to call you Belle the' would be always singing out 'ting-a-ling, ting-a-ling to me, I know they would." "Then, have it your own way, sir; but why call the 'short of my name' at all to the boys, George i Suppose you keep that just for home use." "Well, I 'll see about that; but I think at any ratE it must be Issy," he answered. When the lights were brought in Ellen observec that in addition to the bruise on the child's face there were other traces of some misadventure; his eye, were swollen as if from long weeping, and he kepi looking furtively at his father with an intent, curioue expression, and scarcely eat any supper-a most un usual circumstance with him, for he took his dinnel so early in the day that he was always exceedingly hungry by supper time; and Ellen always tried t( have it ready early on his account. After supper Isabella proposed taking her sister' place in helping him to prepare his lessons for the   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       203 next day. Ellen at first objected; but George, pleased, like every other child with novelty, urged her to consent, and to gratify him she did so, saying at the same time that she hardly thought it fair to put Isabella in the traces so soon. Before he left the parlor with Isabella George whispered in Ellen's ear: "I 'll tell you all about it, sister Nellie, after I have learned my lessons, if you 'll come over in the dining-room." Isabella helped him very kindly in his studies; and with great patience answered his numerous questions, which amused her very much. Being herself so thoroughly well-informed that she could bear his cross-examinations without being vexed with the fear of betraying her own ignorance; and George felt a boyish curiosity to find out whether she knew quite as much as his paragon "sister Nellie" did. On the whole he was quite well satisfied and pleased, especially when, after he had shut his books for the night, his sister sang him several comic Irish songs. When these were finished, and she saw him looking once more in good spirits, she said: "Now, George, I have answered all your questions and have sung you some of my songs, and you must tell me how you got that. ugly bruise on your face,     204    fEEA VENWARD LED; OR, which makes you look very much indeed like an Irish- man just out of a street fight." A cloud instantly came over the child's before bright face, and he looked so distressed and sad that she almost repented having reminded him of his trouble, whatever it might be, though; she felt still. more curious and anxious for his explanations.. "Wait a minute, please, Issy, until sister Nellie comes; I can't tell anybody else before her. She , didn't ask me anything, because she knew I'd be sure to tell her myself," he replied after a grave, thoughtful pause. Isabella, feeling a little hurt and excluded from the child's confidence, rose as she heard Ellen coming, and was about to leave the room, but George detained her, saying: ' Don't go away, Issy; I want to tell you, too, and I can't talk about it but once." "Now, then, Georgie, my little brother, let us hear all about that naughty little spirit that got the better of you, to-day. You did not fight him very hard, did you?" said Ellen, drawing him  very closely and tenderly to her side and looking earnestly into his little troubled face. "Oh, sister Nellie, sister Nellie! You don't know how hard it was to bear! I couldn't help it; indeed   THE TWO BEQUESTS.      205 I couldn't! Frank Alexander called our father such bad, bad names; and some of the other boys did, too. I can't tell you hardly all they said. Frank asked me first if my father wasn't named Captain Richard Ashton; and when I said yes, he just said w-h-e-w! for ever so long, and looked so funny that I asked him what he meant; and he laughed, and said: ' Only I'm glad he ain't my father; for he's a bad man, that's all' "- "Why, Georgie, darling, he was only teasing you. Why didn't you laugh back, and remind him of the fable of the fox and the sour grapes? Did you get mad right off at that?" and Nellie held his face in both of her hands, up towards her own, and gave him a reassuring, comforting look while she waited for his answer. "Yes, I was mad then; but I tried not to be very much so, and only told him my father was better than his father. Then he hooted, and called the other boys, and told them; and he and some of the others said my father didn't tell the truth and drank whiskey, and didn't pay people money when he owed it to them; and that by rights we ought not to live at the Park. I don't know what else they said, for I wouldn't hear any more, but struck Frank Alex- ander and two or three of the others, and Mr. Green. 18 '     206    HtEAENWARD LED; OR, leaf came and found us fighting, and kept us all in; but when Harry Blackstone told him how the boys had made me angry, he was sorry and scolded them for talking so, but told me I could go. I couldn't come right home; I had to go off in the woods and cry by myself; for I wouldn't let the boys see me crying; for, oh, sister Nellie, nobody said it wasn't true that they said. But it isn't, is it, Isabella?" and he began to sob afresh. The child's grief and shame touched Isabella's heart most deeply, reviving as it did the recollection of all her own first sorrow! and mortification. In tender sympathy with the little fellow, she wept bit- terly, but did not attempt to answer his appeal to her, except by kissing his bruised face and smoothing his hair gently with her hand. Ellen was the only calm, self-possessed one of the party. She looked very much astonished and grieved; but after a short, grave, thoughtful silence, her inno- cent face brightened up as an idea occurred to her which she thought would explain the painful affair. "My darling little brother," she said, "I am so grieved that you,should have suffered so much. I can't think why the boys should have treated you so unkindly, unless, perhaps, you talked a good deal this morning about father and the money he gave you, and   "THE TWO BEQUESTS.       207 they may have thought you were proud and stuck up, as little boys sometimes call it. Don't you know yourself, my little brother, that your father is not a wicked man? Then don't think any more about what they said, but try to forgive them and to be very good and kind to them always. You are going to be Christ's soldier, are you not, dear Georgie? His soldiers don't fight, you know, with swords or staves or fists; and their enemies are within them-not other little boys or men-but anger, pride, falsehood, and all that great army we have talked about so often. Such a strong army it is, too, that our Captain has to come and help us, or they would conquer us and make us bondmen and bondwomen to Satan. Now, darling, you forgot to-day to call your Captain to help you; but you won't to-night, will you?; Sister Nel- lie will ask him, too, to be very near you all the time and to clothe you with his own armor, so that no fiery darts may ever harm you. You must kiss away all sister Isabella's tears now, and ask her to sing for us again, and then we 'll have prayers, and you and Rosa can go up to Mammy Polly." Her words soothed and comforted Isabella as well as George, and, making an effort, she dried her tears and sent him for Rosa, whom she took on her lap, and soon had both them and Ellen too, laughing aloud at     208    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, her droll comic ballads. Nor was old Mammy less di- verted than the rest; she had come, with Rosa, whom George had brought from up stairs, and holding her sides with laughter, would exclaim, every now and then, "Did you ever now! Miss Isabella is droll, sure enough! I never see the like before!" The father, when sent for, declined coming to prayers, saying they must go on without him because he was busy. George had quite forgotten the question he had saved for Mam Polly and Rosa to decide for him, until suddenly-while he was sitting in Nellie's room by the fire, reading his verses and thinking over what she had told him about calling his Captain- Isabella's words in the morning recurred to his mind, and he told them to his two confidants, asking what they thought she could have meant, and whether it was possible for "Sister Nellie" to disgrace anybody. Rosa had nothing to say, but only waited for her Mammy's answer; she was a wise little woman, in that she never meddled with matters above her com- prehension, as the present one was. Mammy Polly laid down the big patch she was just fixing on her mending-work, and looking over the top of her spectacles, listened attentively until   TIlE TWO BEQUEST.       209 George had finished his narration; then she replied with solemn gravity: "Mas George, likely you misunderstood Miss Isabella, sir! Nobody's going to be ever disgraced by Miss Nellie, that sure: for if all the rest of us could only keep our corners as clean as she keeps hers, we'd be well off, depend on it. The family ain't been accustomed, to be sure, to having the ladies doing work and selling it. But then, if times is not so good as they was, it 's all right you know, and we's got to submit. We can't expect to stay mounted up on high all the time. The birds fly high up in the air, but even they has to come down to the ground sometimes, to pick up their food." George, perfectly satisfied with this sagacious answer, bade good-night and went into his own adjoin- ing little room. After the children had left the dining-room Isabella turned to Nellie, saying: Sister Nell, I want you to let me have George all to myself, to teach and bring up, won't you? There is Rosa left for you to pet and love and take care of; and I do so much want Georgie. I shall teach him altogether myself at home until he is ready for college. Should he get beyond my present ability to teach him, I can study with 18*       o     210    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, him. It is a pity for the child to be tormented at school as he was to-day." "Yes, but that could never happen again. It is very strange what could have put it into those boys' heads to torment him so cruelly. But what do you mean, Issy, as he calls you, by asking to have him all to yourself? cannot we be united and help each other in this, as in everything else I hope we may? You shall certainly teach- him as much as you feel disposed to do: and I have not the slightest doubt of your being able even to fit him for college; but don't you think it is good for him to go to school and mix with other boys? While we have his confidence, and can guard him against wrong influences, I think the association with his school-fellows may inspirit him, and give firmness and manliness to his character." "Perhaps so, but I see you do not understand me. It seems so sweet to be loved, and trusted in, so entirely as you are by the children, and I really thirst so for something of this exclusive devotion and confidence, that I am almost inclined to envy you. Little George's trouble to-day touched my heart so deeply, too, that I feel as if I would gladly shield him from all future sorrow, and could love him so truly and de. votedly. But then I Wsouldn't like to have him always bringing up sister Nellie to me, as if no one   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       2" else could do anything. or know anything properly. I should want his entire love and confidence, just as you have it yourself now. In short, I would at least like to try to take our mother's place to him," Isa- bella said very softly. Ellen did not reply for some minutes, and looked so grave that Isabella was beginning to be afraid that she was vexed at her for making the request she had done. But her manner was so gentle and kind when she did speak, that she knew immediately that she had been mistaken. "Don't think me very unkind, dearest Issy, to re- fuse your request," she said; "but our dear mother left the little ones to me, so particularly, that I could not possibly give up either of them. I have been wanting to show you her Bequest to us, her children, all day; when you have read it, you will understand my refusal, I am sure. But let us try to act unitedly, and I think you will find that we can thus do more for the children's happiness and welfare, than by es- tablishing separate claims and interests in our little household. Come to father's room, and let me show you the sweet words mother left for us all." Isabella followed, and Ellen held up the light for her while she read the Bequest; her eyes all the while full of a soft, tender reverence. When she had fin-     212    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, ished, she turned to Nellie, and said in a low, sub- dued tone of voice: "Oh! sister, what a lovely, lovely saint cur mother must have been! What holy lessons she still teaches-truly her works do follow her. But there is nothing to suit me in this, I fear. Ah! no, I see you could not give up your place to the children, nor should I be fit to take it. Mother has enriched you far more with this treasure of love which she has left you, than my aunts could have done to me, had they bequeathed to me whole oceans of money. Ah! well, I thank my sweet mother, for those dear, kind words, at the end; she loved me, you see, still, and you all must take me just as I am to your hearts, and warm me with your dear love, even if I do some- times seem cold and guarded." And then, as if she had expressed her feelings too fully, she continued, in a more careless tone and smiling manner: "I will teach George still, if you wish it, and I shall be housekeeper, and keep all those dreadful account books, and not let you have to work yourself pale, and put your eyes out to support your family. You may paint and do fancy work for your own pleasure, but you shan't sell any more of your pretty wares. Remember that, Miss!" Ellen laughed, and said "I cannot promise that, Isabella. I love to make pretty things, but if I did   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       213 it merely for my own pleasure, I should not enjoy it half so much, and it would seem indeed only a pretty sort of idleness, as father would call it; while now, I am so happy as I think of the little piles of money I can make so pleasantly-I have been so successful in this that I am quite inclined to be puffed up. In the first place, I pay for my own painting lessons, for Georgie's schooling, and for many little luxuries besides. Should we ever be rich, as father says, why then I shall have so much the more for my 'poor's- purse.' " "You are rich now, Nellie, for the Irish property, in the first place, is abundant for us all; but that your proud little spirit may feel wholly independent, I shall take father at his word, and go to work in good ear- nest and try to make something out of this beautiful and valuable farm, which will be your own. I have heard so much about business and farming, &c., all my life, that I should not be surprised if I should some day be almost as famous as Aunt Matilda, who every- body said was quite a wonder in this way for a woman. But how have you managed to sell your things, Nell? I should think there might have been some difficulty about that," said Isabella. "No, I have found no difficulty, although I thought at first I certainly should. I meet always with so much     214    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, kindness that, perhaps, I ought not to be surprised at this, but it does seem wonderful how readily I have sold all my articles from the first day I offered them at Mr. Kirkwell's. Mother used to send such beauti- ful work to these stores that I determined to try. George went with me to help to carry the parcels and to keep me in countenance; and he and Mammy Polly thought everything so beautiful, it gave me some hope. All the time that Mr. Kirkwell was looking over my collection, George was so proud and confident and interested, that there did truly seem no such word for me as fail; and how we did want the money that day too! for Charhe was at home from school, so very sick with nervous fever, and needing medicines and so many other things. Father had not sent us a letter for a long time, and mother had always told us never to go in debt. So I felt that I mutt trust to our Heavenly Father's blessing upon my efforts to earn what we needed, and it was so sweet to find that he did indeed have us under his own care, for every- thing turned out so happily and well for us, that it was plain he was ordering and directing our steps. There was a tall, pale-faced gentleman in the store, ordering some things when we went in. As soon as he heard our names from Mr. Kirkwell, he came to the counter where we were, and offered to shake hands, saying t    THE TWO BEQUESTS.       215 that grandfather had been his kindest and best friend. He then looked at my things, as they were unpacked, and praised them until I was glad to get away. In the evening George called in, on his way from school, to see if any were sold, and Mr. Kirkwell told him that Mr. Wilson, the gentleman we saw, had taken them all; and he sent me t!.e money; a nice little package it was, all sealed and directed. From that day he has continued to do the same. Mr. Wilson buys nearly everything for his only son, who is a cripple, and is fond of paintings and pretty things. And it adds very much to my pleasure when I'm making anything, to try to fancy the poor boy's pleasure when he sees it, and if possible to afford him little surprises by the novelty and variety of the as- sortment. Sometimes I have thought of proposing to his father to let me go to see him. They say he suf- fers so much, and has been helpless so long. The little piece I painted for father must be sold, I sup- pose, as he did not like it. I shall take it to Mr. Kirkwell some day, and maybe young Wilson may fancy it." "I have not seen that piece; where is it?" asked Isabella. "Hid away, very carefully, for I was disappointed about it at first-so much for being spoiled by praise,     216    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, you see. I expected so much from that! My genius was to astonish and delight father, but it didn't," said Ellen, playfully. Then they bade each other good-night, and Isabella retired immediately to her room. Her journal ended that night with these words: "Altogether, we have spent a happier ,day than yesterday, in each others' society. I am begin- ning to love my family so very dearly, and feel so much refreshed by their affection and true tenderness. How unjust I was in what I wrote last night about my sweet little sister Nellie, who is, in truth, most inex- pressibly lovely and winning! She is a sweet mys- tery and puzzle to me; but only because so much above me that I cannot always reach her pure mean- ing. I wish I had not grown so critical, and so prone to distrust every one, and even my own professions. Our hoie, however, with dear little Nell in it to guide and help us, seems like an ark of safety, into which the world's floods and tempests can never enter." es".   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       217 CHAPTER SEVENTH. ELLEN AND CHARLIE. EVERAL weeks had elapsed since Charlie's arrival at home, and still his return to college seemed to Ellen unaccountably postponed. She had remarked, ever since he came, a look of deeper and graver thought and care than she had ever seen in his face before. One evening he passed her on his way to his own room, after having been engaged in a private conversation with their father, looking so pained and troubled, that she felt quite sure he was suffering from some mental disquietude, and longed anxiously for him to open his heart fully to her, as he had always done before. In the mean time she spent many a sleepless hour trying to imagine the nature of his trouble, and to devise some means for affording him relief from each different annoyance which occurred to her mind as the one from which he might be suffering. At last he called her, one evening, as a short day in the latter part of November was closing in, and asked her to walk about the grounds with him, that 19     218    HEA VENWARD LED; OR, they might talk together; but upon reaching the outer door they found the wind so boisterous that they returned to Ellen's own room, and, seating themselves on two low stools close to the hearth, on which was burning a dull, slow fire, they talked long and earn- estly. Soon Ellen exclaimed in a voice full of sor- row and astonishment- "O, Charlie! my brother, must you really leave us to go so far away, and for so long a time? My heart fails me at the very thought! What shall I do without you-you who have always been such a tower of strength to me? And then, Charlie, the danger you will be in! No stormy wind will blow but I shall tremble for your safety. I shall be thinking of you night and day, and imagining the thousand dan- gers and hardships to which you may be exposed." "Yes, dearest Nellie, I must go. It well nigh breaks my heart, too, when I think of so long a sepa- ration from you, as well as from all the dear, dear ones whom I leave behind me. But we must be brave, my sister, and put these thoughts aside. You need not shut your eyes to the danger I shall encounter. Only remember \that not one hair of my head can fall without our Father. He will be as near to me on the great deep as he has ever been. I shall need the exercise of my strongest faith, I assure you, to quiet my anx-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       219 iety about you all. You must not try to shake my purpose, Nellie, but rather pray for me, that my strength and fortitude may not fail me in the hour of trial." "Charlie, if I were quite sure that it is your duty calling you, I could silence my anxious fears, and bravely bid you hearken only to her voice, for well I know that she is our Father's messenger, and that he never sends his children out alone to do his bidding; but goes before and leads them, step by step, bring- ing them at length safely into the haven of restt But other voices sometimes mislead us by their insidious whispers, chiming in with some favorite fancy of our own, and persuading us that we are doing our duty, when, in fact, we are simply following some natural inclination of our own minds. May there not be a little too much pride and ambition at the bottom of this? an ambition that is noble and beautiful, if not carried too far. But in this case I fear there is danger of its leading you to a hasty determination," replied Ellen. Charlie paused a while with an expression of serious thought in his face, and when he spoke again there was a tone of yet deeper tenderness in his voice. "Nellie, my sweet little sister, I shall have to tell you something which will give you more pain than anything you have ever yet felt. I would shield you     220    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, from it if I could, but it is scarcely possible for you to remain long in ignorance, and it is better that you should hear it from me than from any one else. You will then better understand, too, all my motives for the course I propose to myself. I hardly know how to begin, however, for I dread to give you such a shock." "What can you mean, Charlie? Do speak at once, and tell me everything about yourself. I can- not imagine your having any sorrow or trouble that yow ought not to tell me of promptly," said Ellen. "It concerns you, my dear sister, as nearly as my- self-only you are in happy unconsciousness, but it is not possible that you should remain so, and therefore it is better I should tell you, and comfort you at the same time as best I may. Do you remember, Nellie, when I was ill with the fever how many strange things I said, of which you told me afterwards? I raved about honor, did I not? and said I would challenge any one to prove that my father was not an honorable man. Do you remember that?" "Yes, perfectly, Charlie; and when we laughed at you about it after you were better, you seemed pained, and asked me not to speak of it," replied Nellie, won- dering what that had to do with his present plans. "Nellie, it was finding out, at school, that our   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       221 father is not esteemed a man of honor, that made me ill. It was the hardest blow I have ever had to bear," said Charlie, sorrowfully. "Charlie! Charlie! what do you mean? It surely is not true! How strangely cruel the world is! To think of poor little Georgie, and you, too, being made to suffer so much in the same way. I had not thought that men and boys could so delight in tormenting each other," answered Nellie. "Listen patiently to me, darling, and bear with me while I utter words which may sound in your ears not only cruel, but undutiful, too. Nellie, there is, with- out doubt, something very much amiss in his life. It -is a painful mystery, which, for our own happiness, we had best not try to penetrate," replied Charlie with deep gravity. Charlie! Charlie! be careful. Remember what he is to us, and what we are bound to be to him," Nellie exclaimed in pained surprise. "I do, Nellie dear, remember it all, and speak neither rashy nor bitterly, but in sad, sober cer- tainty. I was indignant and incredulous at first, and set myself to work to disprove all that I had heard, never doubting my ability to do so. But alas! I had to stop my investigations, which brought me only fresh pain, and deprived me, almost, of my own self- 17*     222    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, respect. And how plainly I can read in Isabella's face, at times, the reflection of all my own sufferings. The sad, sorrowful lines which you yourself noticed, have all been traced there by this same painful awa- kening. Yet, with heroic fortitude, she struggles to rise above it, and to bear alone the burden of sorrow and shame," said Charlie. "Can this be all really true?"Nellie asked in a tone of heart-broken sadness, as with tearful eyes she gazed steadily into the dull, smouldering fire. Look- ing up presently into her brother's face, she said, in a low, trembling voice, as if she could hardly induce herself to utter the words: "Charlie, if he has been led into temptation, and, indeed, done wrong, surely we, who have been ' kept by the power of God,' ought to feel more humble and more thankful than we have ever done; but we must only cling the closer to him, and try to save him; but you would rush off to the ends of the earth to be out of his way. Is it not so?" "No, Nellie. I feel for him only the deepest pity and grief; and if I could do him any good by staying here, I would. But there are matters of business which must be attended to, and which I must explain to you. Not a cent has ever been paid for me since the first quarter's tuition fees which I took with me to college. How wretchedly I have felt on this ac-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.      223 count I can hardly describe. A year ago I should have gone away to earn some money to pay what was then due, but I could not leave you all. I spoke to the Dean about my bills, and he kindly lent me money out of his private purse. I hoped that father would settle up everything when he came; and, as the Dean said, our property ought to be ample for all our expenses, but it. is not, it seems. Father says he has no means which he can apply to the payment of my bills, and that they must lie over until we sell the place, and have each our own portion. That he is using Isabella's money, which she allows him to spend freely, but that our daily current expenses are so great, he could not think of using it to pay off old debts. "Now, Nellie, tell me whether I am so very wrong, because I feel that I cannot consent to remain indebted to any one without trying to earn, by hard and honest labor, the money which is due, or whether I should have a right to respect myself, if I were willing to be clothed and fed by my younger sister's bounty? An opening is opportunely offered me, through Jack Hight, my college chum and intimate friend, on board his uncle's ship, where I may, in a few years, earn something handsome. It is an enterprise in which capitalists have embarked. Captairn Standish, Jack's uncle, is a large shareholder, and is also going him- ,      224    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, self, and offers to take Jack and me; and, as he expresses it, to let us have a chance to make a good thing of it. I shall then earn my own support, and send home money to pay off those dreadful bills; and cannot help feeling pride and satisfaction in the thought that by thus showing my steadfast purpose to earn an independent living for myself, I shall be helping to redeem the honor of our good old name. I have written to the Dean, assuming all responsibility, and giving my note for the amount, with interest. He has written kindly in reply, and, I can plainly see, respects my views and feelings." "Poor, poor father!" said Nellie, with pitying love in her sorrowful face and voice. "Charlie, we must save him! Oh! I will love him so tenderly and pray so fervently for him! It is well to know the truth, however painful it may be; and from this hour no thought shall divert me from this great object of my life, to induce my dear father to accept the offer of salvation, and no other feeling, God being my helper, shall ever interfere with, or diminish my loving solici- tude for his happiness. Have you spoken to him about your plans, Charlie?" she then asked. "Yes, and he is pleased with them. He said I would like the voyage; that it was well for young men to show energy in trying to make their way in the world; and that contact with men of business   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       225 would soon rub off my squeamishness in money mat- ters. But you have not yet told me, Nellie, that you now understand and appreciate my motives, and approve my scheme; I need your full approval before I can feel satisfied." "I will suggest a few things which have occurred to my mind, Charlie. In the first place, is it not often harder to stand quietly at one's post and meet bravely what comes there, than to rush out and fight our enemy in view of the' whole world? and is it not possible to find something to do at home which will avail as much, as your far-off expedition? "Our mother was always so delighted when you used to declare you would never be anything but a minister. Have you given all that up, my brother? And then in her dying hour, she intrusted to your care the helpless little ones from whom she was taken. Think well, before you decide. You know how wonderfully wise and foreseeing she has always proved, in every plan she formed for us. How would it do for you to go to Isabella, and tell her of your indebtedness, and borrow the money; giving security for its repayment with interest; arranging everything with a strict regard to business, just as if the transaction was between strangers, and then go on with your studies? And should God call you to be his minister, enter P     226    HEAVEYWARD LED; OR, upon the work of preparation, feeling how our mother's heart would have been gladdened. I can earn enough money to help you, and you will let your own twin sister do this, will you not? We are so much a part of each other that it will be just the same as if you earned it for yourself. You love me enough to accept, for awhile, the use of those idle instruments, do you not?" said Ellen. "I still look forward, dear Nellie, to being a minis- ter of Jesus Christ, and I am not relinquishing the charge mother gave me, by going away for a while; indeed, I have scarcely any choice in the matter. I can do nothing by remaining. Father is now at the head of his own house; and, Nellie, he does not wish me at home, even if I could find profitable employ- ment here. I could not offer myself as a candidate for the ministry with this debt hanging over me. I would rather not say a word to Isabella about my debts; she has quite enough to trouble her now, and I think my own plan the best. I shall study dili- gently in every spare hour, and gain all the know- ledge I can by my observation of the world and of men; so these years abroad may not be thrown away in any respect, while, like St. Paul, I can rejoice in the consciousness that I am burdensome to none. I cannot say this of the a st, but am resolved to do so for the , -" -               ,    THE TWO BEQU:ESTS.       227 future, God helping me. Should my health ever fail, so that I cannot work, thankfully would I accept your loving offer. Or if, after I go, father or you should ever really need me, I will immediately return. So now, Nellie, tell me you think I am right. Give me your blessing and your prayers, and I shall be satisfied." "Ah, Charlie, what can I say further? Since the Divine Counsellor has indeed spoken to you, I must utter no word of opposition or discouragement. But, oh, how faint-hearted I feel at the prospect of this separation! Of course, I shall pray for you, dearest, more than ever before; and I know that our Heavenly Father will bless you and be very near to you; but what shall I do without my Mr. Great-Heart? These, however, are all selfish thoughts, and I must not in- dulge them." As she said this, she laid her head on her brother's shoulder and wept silently. Charlie pressed her closely and tenderly to his heart, and bending over her, comforted her softly, then both for some time were silent. Finally he spoke cheerfully, saying: "No more tears now, my darling; I shall leave my sweet little Florence in your sisterly care. You must comfort her when she needs it, and be cheerful for her sake." "Have you spoken to her of your journey?" asked Nellie.     228    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, "Oh, yes; all that is over, and she promises not to forget me. We thoroughly trust as well as dearly love each other, and will wait hopefully for the happy future which we promise ourselves," he answered, with a bright smile lighting up his handsome face. "It has cost me a hard struggle to resolve bravely to sunder all these tender ties which bind me so closely to our home. But now I feel a delightful calm; for I can trust so fully and entirely to Him who has pro- mised to be the guide of my youth, that there seems no longer any room for doubt or fear." And then for some minutes again no word was spoken by either. They sat looking thoughtfully into the smouldering embers. Ellen broke the silence, saying drearily: "You have not told me yet, Charlie, when you will have to leave us. Must it be very soon?" "I shall go to see Captain Standish, and hear what his arrangements are; then I shall return, and may not leave for six or eight weeks. It is all uncertain as yet. In three years many pleasant things may happen. Imagine myself returned; and, of course, very much improved in all respects. I hope we shall be part of the time with the Exploring Squadron, and see many new and wonderful things; and as I intend to study very hard every spare moment, I ought to   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       229 return a much wiser and better fellow. And if all things result according to my wishes and hopes, I can then enter upon my theological course at the semi- nary, which will be so near home that I can see my dear ones very often, and hear from them almost daily. And now for the changes I shall find amongst you all. To begin with yourself, as the eldest: What answer will you have given to Dr. William Blackstone, I wonder? For by that time he will certainly have gotten into fine practice, and will have ventured to ask for the dear little hand he has been coveting as long as I shall have done that of my own little Florence before I get it. And, perhaps, the owner of the same little hand may have been persuaded to make some blushing and coy acknowledgments and promises, and be only waiting for me to come home that she may make the noble fellow the happiest young doctor in the world." '"Oh, Charlie, what nonsense you will talk! How can you do so at such a time? You must not imagine that because Florence and yourself have become child- sweethearts every one else is thinking of the same thing. It will be a long time before this 'little hand, as you call it, will be at all in demand, I expect. Dr. Blackstone may, however, be married, and I dare say will, long before you return, to some young lady of a 20     230    HEA VENWARD LED; OR, suitable age." Ellen blushed to the very tips of her ears, and looked half-smiling, half-provoked, as she made this reply. "May be so, Nellie; but he is such a noble fellow that I should be very sorry if any of his long cherished hopes should be disappointed. He is only in his twenty-second year, and you are in your seventeenth- five years is not such an awful disparity on the gen- tleman's side, is it? Of course I like one year better, but we can't have everything, you know," Charlie answered archly. "However, I won't tease you ally more, if you don't like it. Here is Isabella come to join us! I was just about going to hunt you up, Issy," he continued, making room at the same time between Ellen and himself for her. Isabella had stopped in the door-way, uncertain whether to enter, as they seemed to be engaged in a confidential conversation, which she did not like to o   interrupt. Her face brightened at his words, and she smilingly replied-"I only came to announce to sister Nell and yourself that your dear friend, the Rev. Dr. Blackstone, has been here nearly an hour, waiting to see you. I have taken him through all the old Cathe- drals of Great Britain and Germany, as well as St. Peter's, at Rome, and no doubt he thinks I love the sound of my own voice dearly, for he left me to do   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       231 nearly all the talking, which ought quite to have ex- hausted me, had I been a travelled fine lady, instead of a remarkably vigorous young girl. The children have been hunting all over the grounds for you, until at last finding that his reverence seemed determined that you should be produced before he left, I offered to come myself and hunt you up. I am glad you don't resent my interference as much as I feared you would when I found your heads put so confidentially close together. I have persuaded your pastor to stay and take tea with us, and to let me send the carriage in for his wife and daughter. You must both make yourselves as agreeable as possible." "I do give you warmest thanks, Issy, especially for the wife and daughter. But you must let me go and bring them myself," said Charlie, blushing, and look- ing, with a quizzical smile on his face, at Ellen. "But, Issy, I must then put off the quiet little talk I wanted to have with you this evening. Father has told you of my intended voyage-has he not?" "Yes, he has, and I am so grieved at the thought of parting so soon again from you," she said, putting her arm around her brother's neck, and looking ten- derly into his face, while two large teardrops glis- tened in her eyes. Charlie kissed them off, and said, "Thank you,     232    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, Issy, but we won't be melancholy about it now. Our guests must be entertained this evening, and then sometime we'll steal off by ourselves and talk over all my plans, as Nellie and I have just been doing." Charhe had fancied that Isabella had felt at first lonely and apart from them, and he had tried to make her realize their readiness to receive her into a close and confidential interchange of feeling. She felt his delicate consideration, and turning away her face that she might overcome her emotion, she replied: "Very well, turn your attention now to topics suited to the good old minister's entertainment, for papa and he are, by this time, at a pause, and will, doubtless, joyfully hail two such valuable recruits as sister Nellie and you. I will order,the carriage, and have you called when it is ready." Isabella had taken charge of the affairs of the family, being, as we have shown, disposed readily to take up her father's proposition, in the hope of secur- ing a greater degree of comfort and independence to the househeld than they were likely to enjoy under his mismanagement, having full confidence in the practical business lessons which she had received from her aunt Matilda. Captain Ashton had insisted upon her taking Nellie's place at the head of his table, and had made   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       233 her a great many flourishing and complimentary speeches; to the effect that it was only fair "the reins of government should be entirely in the hands of the Queen, by whose royal bounty their supplies were furnished, and that he should be happy always to act as her prime minister, or in any other sub- ordinate capacity to which she might appoint him." And then he gladly gave himself up to a life of indolent ease and self-indulgence. Isabella's disposition was an eminently earnest and intense one, and as she always bent the full force of her intelligent mind upon whatever she undertook, it was not. wonderful that success was almost sure to crown her efforts. Her house-keeping was a pleasant variety, after her previous life; she enjoyed it highly, and never looked more charming than when, in her neat, tasteful, morning dress, she went tripping over the place, superintending the servants, with a smiling air of half-amusement and real interest. Ellen was always consulted when any important changes were contemplated, and her opinions were listened to with great respect; but she was not allowed to do the least thing which would encroach upon the time she might otherwise give to her painting. Isabella de- claring that her long holiday made her present work not only her duty, but her pleasure too. 20*     234    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, Captain Ashton missed his eldest daughter if out of the way when he entered the house, and would immediately inquire tor her. In his sickness no one nursed him so soothingly as Ellen; and accordingly he made unreasonable demands upon her energies as well as her patience. Sometimes, it is true, he listened complaisantly to her guilelesss confidences. But he carefully avoided a revelation of his own sentiments, especially on the subject of religion. making insidious excuses for his want of interest in its observances, and for his non-attendance upon its services;' fearing, perhaps, he should shock her pure exalted nature, as he felt he already had Isabella's. The relations existing between the two sisters were somewhat unusual. They had commenced a course of study and reading together, under the same masters. and were united in most of their pursuits and pleasures. And Isabella showed the most generous and unselfish desire to display her sister to advantage, was ready to share her elegant wardrobe with her, as well as the rich old family jewels and various other treasures; and never seemed better pleased than when Ellen was receiving the admiration she thought due to her lovely and attractive appearance; while Ellen, in turn, ad- mired Isabella supremely and loved her devotedly, yet   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       235 there had still seemed to her a barrier between them, and a certain degree of reserve which she could neither comprehend or be reconciled to. She had remarked how quiet and grave Isabella was almost sure to look when she chanced to speak to her of their father; and how quickly she tried to change the subject; and that the reminiscences which she related of the eighteen months they had spent in travelling together were, as far as possible, removed from any allusion to their own personal adventures or histories. They were entertaining and interesting, even instructive, at times, yet to Ellen they were not fully satisfactory, because they seemed so far off from what most deeply concerned her. Once or twice she had ventured to question Isabella more particularly about her own individual life, but saw immediately that she was embarrassed and pained, so kept silent in future, but wondered none the less at her sister's reticence. Charhe had, however, un- derstood her feelings and motives much better than Ellen, who, until his conversation with her, had been so entirely ignorant and unconscious of any possible cause for silence relating to her father's course of life. And while he avoided any direct allusion to the bur- den which he saw she was determined to bear alone, however heavily it might weigh upon her mind, yet he     236    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, had managed, with delicate tact and tenderness, to establish a sort of -tacit understanding between them, which made her conscious of his sympathy and fellow- ship in this common sorrow. And she had enough of that genuine womanly feeling of dependence upon, and confidence in, manly strength of judgment and resolution to make his true brotherly support and love inexpressibly sweet and precious to her. Her father had promptly unfolded to her Charlie's scheme, say- ing that " the boy " had wisely determined to go forth in pursuit of adventures, and to make his own for- tunes on the sea and in distant lands, speaking with unusual warmth and animation for him. Anything that looked at all adventurous or vision- ary had a strange charm for Captain Ashton, and im- mediately enlisted his sympathy and interest. Be- sides this, he greatly preferred not having his eldest son living at home with him, dreading, no doubt, his surveillance. Isabella immediately concluded that her brother was moved to adopt this course by the know- ledge he had gained of the shame and dishonor which their father had brought upon the family name, and which had pierced his heart's core as it had done her own, with a sense of wounded dignity and self-respect, and made him long impatiently for an opportunity of proving that the degenerate spirit of the parent had   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       237 not been inherited by the children. She admired and applauded his noble pride, and placed him at once upon a pedestal higher than ever in her estimation of his superior worth. She had never realized, until she heard of his in- tended departure, how much she had been mentally calculating upon her brother's support in any case of emergency, and felt almost overwhelmed with sorrow and disappointment at first, but, true to her heroic nature, had determined to hide away, in her own heart, all these feelings for herself, and to say nothing which could shake or weaken him in his purpose; and soon she began to occupy her thoughts with bright imaginings as to the honors which should crown his name, when once he had gone forth among men, and showed the high courage and chivalrous devotion to honor, truth, and duty, which entitled him to the high- est place in their esteem, and made him, in her eyes, the very embodiment of all manly excellence. But to return to our story on the evening of the min- ister's call. Isabella was not aware that Dr. Blackstone had inquired pointedly at the door for her father, and had come with the determination to try to have a faith- ful private conversation with him, or she would have left them before. There was no other clergyman in the world for whom Capt. Ashton felt so much respect     238     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, and regard as he did for the Rev. Dr. Blackstone, for, in addition to that gentleman's intrinsic worth, there were associations with him, the force of which must be felt even by one of Captain Ashton's volatile temperament. He had been the long-tried friend and counsellor of both his wife and his father, to whom he had ministered in their dying hours, and had read afterwards over their remains the beautifully solemn, yet cheering declaration: "I am the resurrection and the life; he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live;" and he had spoken to him words of faithful warning, as well as sympathy, when, in the hour of his bereavement, he had in an agony of bitter remorse accused himself of having caused his wife's death by his reckless dissipation. He had therefore always received the minister at his house with cordial respect, yet there were few topics of common interest between them, and after the first greetings had been exchanged, it was his custom to leave the room, and let his daughters entertain him. But this evening, as the visit had seemed intended so especially for himself, he felt compelled to remain longer than usual. His eyes, however, followed Isa- bella anxiously as she rose to go in search of Charlie and Ellen, thus leaving him alone with his guest. He dreaded being reminded by the minister of their past   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       239 intercourse, and, to prevent this, commenced talking in a rapid manner, repeating, in his eager haste, remarks which he had made only a short time before. Dr. Blackstone waited with quiet composure of manner for a pause, when, shaking his head, he said, with a genial smile and in a kind voice: "Ah! Captain, I see that you are dreading a sermon from me. No occasion for that, my friend; I always keep my sermons for the pulpit. But I would speak to you simply as a friend and brother. Your pastor I can scarcely claim to be, since you have rarely entered the door of my church. Still, we are not only fellow- men, but by nature fellow-sinners, needing the same atoning blood and the same grace to carry us through our earthly pilgrimage, and to make us meet for an entrance into the presence of the Lamb. I should not feel that I had acted the part of a faithful friend; either to yourself or to those whom we both have loved, and who, as we firmly believe, 'are now rejoicing above in the fulfilment of all their hopes-were I not to express my interest in your spiritual welfare; also to renew the offer, made two years ago, to render you all the help I can, and which you have a right to, claim from me as a minister of Christ and an older pilgrim." He waited as if expecting an answer, but as Cap.     240    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, tain Ashton looked more and more embarrassed, he continued, in the same pleasant voice: "There, now, you think I have delivered you quite a sermon. We old folks are long-winded, you know. My dear friend," he added, still affectionate in his manner, "will you not let me urge you, as one who knows the fearful danger of delay, not to trifle with or neglect those momentous interests of your soul which are at stake-the solemn consideration and attention which their importance and your safety demand. I have faithfully kept the promise I made you in our last conversation; morning and evening I have interceded for you, by name, with your Father and mine." As he finished speaking, the old gentleman's eyes were moist, and the tender gentleness of his voice had increased. Captain Ashton was evidently affected by his words, but alas.! his impressions were of such a transient nature! He spoke a few words in acknow- ledgment of the minister's kindness, and muttered a sort of half-promise to go to church. Just at this crisis, Ellen and Charlie entering the room, their father availed himself of this opportunity to retire, until, Charlie having brought the two ladies, tea was announced, and then, upon the plea of busi- ness engagements, he left the little party together in the drawing-room soon after it was over.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       241 Isabella had prepared a tasteful entertainment for the first social visitors they had received since her residence at the Park, who were family friends of such long standing, that she had been doubly ambitious to do the house credit by the refined elegance of their reception. With her accustomed grace she made everything pass off with true enjoyment to all parties. The good old minister was so fresh in his feelings, and so sim- ple in his tastes, that the young people of his congre- gation never felt restrained by his presence, but were much attached to him, and greatly enjoyed his society. "The little Ashton children," as he called them, were especially dear to him, however, and he often declared he scarcely knew any difference in his feelings between them and his own. Isabella had not yet overcome her reserve, but was growing more cordial in her feel- ings every time they met, and enjoyed much his kind and fatherly manner to them all. Mrs. Blackstone was a motherly, practical woman; a great admirer of persons who showed common-sense in the affairs of everyday life, but perhaps a little hard upon women whom she thought deficient in house- hold virtues. She had hastily concluded, upon a slight acquaintance with Isabella, that she was a haughty beauty, with whom she should never find 21                .     212    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, many points of common interest. Accordingly she was astonished at her excellent management, her bril- liant conversation and her winning manners; and frankly admitting her previous mistake, became one of her most ardent admirers. Florence Blackstone, Charlie's child-sweetheart, was scarcely one year younger than himself; they had been most intimate friends from infancy. Charlie had always declared that Florence wasto be his little wife, and she, being very childlike in her feelings, and distrustful of herself, looked up with respect and con- fidence. to both Ellen and him, calling Ellen "Sister Nellie." She was the only daughter, and the old minister had always called her his baby, and she would often sit by his chair, on her low seat, holding his hand, while he was thinking out his sermons. She had never had any other teacher than her father, who was, in her eyes, the impersonation of wisdom and goodness. Mrs. Blackstone and Ellen had noticed, with much' amusement, during the present evening, a newly ac- quired reserve in her manner to all Charlie's family. She had dropped Ellen's sisterly title, and called him no longer by his name. Before long, however, Charlie had slyly worried her back into her old ways. She in- deed was so grieved at the approaching separation from   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       243 him, that she would have found it hard to refuse him any gratification. Their childish little love affair was so artless that the most crabbed old bachelor could hardly have watched its progress without a feeling of interest. But the pleasantest evening must come to an end; the old Doctor read the ninety-first psalm, and gave out the second part of the metrical version of the same to be sung: "God shall charge his angel legions," and then made an appropriate prayer, in which Charhe was especially commended to the Divine protection and direction. Florence and Ellen almost sobbed aloud, and tears were in Mrs. Blackstone's eyes. Isabella felt much, although she made no out- ward demonstration, and was surprised to see how much Mrs. Blackstone and Florence were affected. Charhe had not yet had an opportunity of letting her into the secret of the understanding between Florence and himself, and she regarded them both as much too young to have suspected it herself. Though it was quite early when the Blackstones left, Ellen went immediately to her own room, but Isabella waited in the drawing-room for her brother's return, he having walked home with Florence. "Charlie, dear," she exclaimed warmly, as soon as he came back, "I have been waiting here for you that I may tell you how proud I feel of my brave, high-     244     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, spirited young brother; and also hear all that you are willing to tell me of your plans., As I understand these, they seem most natural and right, and my heart responds cordially to yours. But, at the same time, if there is any vexation or trouble from which money could relieve you, you will not keep it from me, will you?" Charlie used all the tact he could command, in try- ing to make her understand his desire, and the neces- sity there was for him to help himself and become independent of his father, without alluding to the sub- ject of his unpaid bills, or to their father's moral failings. She listened, with deep interest, to every word, making up her mind that he was not telling her fully all his mortification about money matters, and guessing the reason, secretly determined to assist him in spite of himself. At the first mention of their father's name, her breathing became short, her lips were compressed, and there crept into her face a quiet, grave, almost hard look, which was peculiar to it at such times. Fixing her eyes upon Charlie's face, as if she would read how much he knew, and what he thought of such a life, she did not allow one syllable to escape her lips which could convey to} him any further knowledge than he had already gained. But when he had ended that   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       245 part of their conversation, pressing her cheek lovingly against his, she whispered in his ear, in tones so soft and low, that they seemed, as it were, mere breathings from her very heart to his; "I know how intensely that must have made you suffer, my poor brother, but your heart is not yet frozen to him, is it?" "No, my darling, far from it," he replied; and then catching a fuller view of her face and reading its expression, he added quickly: "Nor must yours be, my dear sister." "Never mind mine now, my brother. What is done there can never be undone; but tell me about Nellie. I trust you have not felt compelled to trouble her an- gelic peace with such embittering sorrow?" she an- swered earnestly. "Yes, I thought it best to tell her something of this. Father is now so frequently and publicly spoken of that I could not doubt her hearing things which would be much more cutting so conveyed to her, than if she were prepared for the shock; knowing this much, too, will prevent her seeking a further explana- tion of what she may hear upon the public thorough- fares." "I suppose you are right about it, Charlie. Yet I cannot bear to think of sin's coming so near her. 21*     246     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, She has had sorrow enough of other kinds, but I did hope she might be spared this. He, poor fellow; will miss her trusting and devoted love and respect; still he is but reaping what he sowed. How did she feel after she had heard it, Charlie?" she asked, with a regretful sort of interest in her face. "As you might imagine a guardian angel to feel who had been sent forth to minister to some frail mor- tal-an heir of salvation still, in spite of his frailty- the most sorrowful tender pity, a yearning desire to save the lost one, without any fear of contamination through his guilt or any thought whatever of self; so sure and strong is the foundation lof her faith. But sin, dear Issy, is terribly near to us all; we have only to look each one into his own heart to see it there dis- played in all its frightful proportions. Ojur consola- tion must be that the more clearly we make ourselves acquainted with its evil nature the 'more closely we cling to our only refuge-Christ crucified! How is it with you, Issy, in these matters? I want you to talk freely to me about yourself." To which Isabella replied with excitement and agitation: I am not ungrateful, my dear brother, nor insen- sible to the comfort of which you speak, but don't urge me to talk of myself; it is, for the present at   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       247 least, impossible. I have received my 'good things' here; yours and Nellie's are laid up for you hereafter. If you pity and love me talk of others, not of my- self." Charhe was truly grieved as he saw her usually calm face so disturbed. He only said, very gently: "Let us beware, dearest, how we judge or condemn. Our part must be to love and to forgive, as we would be forgiven, and never to doubt the infinite wisdom which has appointed our lot." And then he felt that he must wait for God's own softening touch to melt the frozen currents of feeling, which he feared would only more thickly congeal under his attempts to set its tide in motion. Chang- ing the subject at once, he told her of all his own plans, both as to his future calling and his hopes of having Florence Blackstone to cheer and brighten his life with her love. Then he asked her laughingly if she did not already love as a sister, his dear little bethrothed. "She admires you, Issy, above all things; but is a little afraid of you yet. You must make advances to her, and overcome her timidity; and then I know you will dearly love her for her own sake. And when I'm far away, and you sometimes feel as if you would like to say a loving word to me or perform some kind sis-     248     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, terly act, why there's my own dear little representa- tive at hand--just let her take my place." "Not exactly, Charlie. I will love her dearly for your sake, and will pet and caress her for her own. She is a dear, sweet, bewitching, little creature, whom it is not very hard to love; and I'm glad of that. But your own place no one could possibly fill. How do you know that your tastes may not greatly change before you are old enough to consummate your plans?" "We are willing, you see, Issy, to trust each other for all future time; and what an important element in human happiness that little word trust includes!" "Yes, it certainly does," Isabella replied; then she looked as if she wanted to understand his motives more. clearly, and asked a little playfully but more regretfully: "And you really and earnestly expect to be a minister, too, Charlie?" "I sincerely hope that I may be found worthy to be so honored," he replied; "but I think you would be hardly glad of it, Issy. Why is that?" he asked. "I am ambitious for you, Charlie. I want you to be a great and noble man; and with your frank, chivalrous spirit it seems as if the army, or the bar, or the navy-professions in which the esprit de corps   THE TWO BEQUESTS.      249 and the code of honor are very high-would suit you much better," she answered. "My dear sister, which do you esteem most highly, earthly renown or heavenly; and what code of honor could be higher than the one established by our Lord himself?" "Charlie, my dear brother, if they were all like good old Dr. Blackstone, now, it would be so different. You see at once that he is a thorough gentleman in every sense of the word; a man of refinement and of strict integrity and high honor." "You must remember your brother with fervent constancy in your prayers, asking that he may always 'study to show himself approved unto God, a work- man that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth,' should God call him, as he ear- nestly hopes, and as our dear mother also hoped, to preach the glorious gospel of Christ." "Ah, Charlie, were all like you and Dr. Black- stone I should try not to be too exacting, as you evidently think I am. Good-night; it must be grow- ing late. Who is that coming in the back door?" said Isabella; and as they listened they heard an uneven step ascending the staircase, and upon going into the hall saw their father, with his hat and cloak still on, making his way with a slow, unsteady, would-be     250     HEA ENWARD LED; OR, stealthy tread to his own room. They exchanged grave glances, without speaking, but in silence waited for him to reach his own door; then bade each other good-night and separated. Isabella sat dreamily by the fire, while Bridget fidgeted about the room. To her maid's remark she occasionally replied, her words seeming scarcely to cause even a momentary interruption in the absorbing train of thought she was pursuing. Bridget was in high spirits, and talked on for some time volubly, without being conscious of her young mistress's lack of interest. But when she was about leaving the room she suddenly dropped the door-knob, and coming back, stood by Isabella's chair, curling up one corner of her apron between her fingers, and looking down with a sheepish yet pleased expression in her face. "Miss Isabella, an' who do you think I've hears from this night?" she asked abruptly, and with a deep blush and a sly, laughing look. Isabella, turning towards her, caught a sight of her comical face, and laughed merrily as she replied: "I can't say, Biddy, who the happy man is; but should imagine it must be some lover, to whom you intend to say yes. Who is he?" "Why, sure enough, you're right entirely. there, Miss Isabella; for he's as real good a lover I do *   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       251 believe as a girl need have, is Patrick; and it's him- self as writ me the letter." "Patrick! What Patrick, Bridget?" "Why, lor, now, Miss Isabella! Sure, what Pat- rick could it be but our Patrick?-Patrick McCleod, as used to wait upon you so handy." "Patrick McCleod! Why, is his wife dead, Brid- get?" "Dead and buried, snug away by this time, too- poor cratur; for she was just on the very brink of it when Pat wrote, Miss Isabella, and it's sorry enough I am for the poor soul, too." "Why, Bridget, what do you mean?  Surely Pat- rick did not write you such a letter as that while his poor old wife was still living?" "It's as proper and good a letter as was ever writ, Miss Isabella. The doctors all said theirselves that his wife was a dyin' very fast, an' Pat was a feelin' that sorry, an' a needin' somethin' to console him that bad, he was jist obliged like to write. Read for yourself, Miss Isabella, for sure I niver tho't it was in Pat to write like that, an' so beautiful as he spakes of you, too, miss." Saying this, she handed the letter with a glow of delight on her crimson face, adding: "Plase, miss, jist to read it out loud, for I likes the sound of it right well."     252    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, Isabella took the letter, and, with a face of mingled amusement and perplexity, read: "DEAR BRIDGET MALONE: "It's jist your ould freend an' fellow sarvant as writes to you to-night. Ah! Biddy, it's that sorry I am, I could niver tell ye the harf of it. There lies my wife Norah, a breathin' that hard you could a'most hear her acrost the seas, only you'd ha for thinkin' it wasn't her, niver in the world, but only the stormy wind a-brakin' up the ships. But it's the storm a- brakin' her up, Bridget Malone! And you'll niver see her agin, no niver, for the doctor says she 'll niver a bit see the mornin's light. An' the good praste 's been here, an' made her all right to die asy, an' she'll lave me broken-hearted intirely,' for she's been a raal good wife, has Norah, only of late troubled with cold fits, an' sich like, that she couldn't help herself, let alone me-an' I've been a raal good husband to her, too, Bridget, my dear, an' shill give her the iligantest wake I can at all. I wish you was here to it, Biddy, for Norah an' you was gooId friends always, an' she'd ha' been glad to see you at her wake if she could ha' lived to tell ye so. Ah! Biddy, I'm that unhappy an' unconsolable, ye 'd hardly believe till ye saw me a-weepin' an' a-cryin my viry eyes out. I 've been a-thinkin' how lonely it will be here when Norah 's   THE TWO BEQUESTS.        253 gone entirely. It '1 bae so still about the house, I 'll bae listenin' all the time afeerd to see Norah's ghost a-comin' back to scare me out of all my sinses. So says H' I can't stay here all by myself, that's it; an' where, thin, should I go but to Ameriky, where lan 's chape an' livin 's asy, an' where Bridget lives, an' Miss Isabella, the beautiful young mistress. Bridget, I always thort you was as hansome a girl as iver I 've seen in my life, an' that tidy an' handy, you 'd make any man the best o' wives, 'specially your humble sarvant, Patrick McCloed, who loves you like the viry apple of his eye, an' is always a-thinkin' that sugar is sweet an' so is you. So, thin, Biddy, my darlin', as soon as I 've done all dacent an' proper for Norah, I shill come an' bring mysilf strait by ex- press to Ameriky. An' sure, thin, Biddy, my beauty, you 're not the girl to brake a man's heart entirely that's quite in two already for sorrow for poor Norah, as is goin' viry fast while I write. "All my duty an' sarvice to Miss Isabella, an' tell her I kin niver know any pace at all if she don't let me look afther the horses, an' drive her carriage, an' wait on her honor, jist as I used to do in ould Dublin. An' now, Bridget, my sweetheart, farewell for this present. I'll bae sure to come as soon as I kin; in- dade, I'd come a dale sooner if I possibly could. 22     254    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, "Hopin' this will find you, Bridget Malone, well an' happy, I am, as iver, "Your true lover, PATRICK MCCLEOD." Isabella tried to look grave, and to reprove Bridget with suitable dignity, but the tell-tale dimples were rippling suspiciously around her mouth and chin as she said: "Oh! Bridget! this is too bad. How could Pat- rick write so, or you be willing to read such a letter, and to marry such a man? How would you like him to write so to any one else if you were his wife, and lying on your death-beA?" "Faix, thin, Miss Isabella, there's no danger at all of that, for Pat 's by no manes a young man now, an' little 'll bae the lavings of him for anybody else when I 'm gone," said Biddy, with an assured, satisfied toss of her head, at which Isabella could no longer con- trol her amusement, but laughed heartily as she exclaimed: "Bridget, Bridget! what strange ideas you have! There are other reasons why you should not marry Patrick, Bridget," she added gravely. "He is, as you say, a great deal older than you are, and you don't love him. It is a great sin to marry any one   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       255 you don't really love, Bridget. How could you make all those solemn promises to honor and love him more than any one else in all the world besides?" "Why faix, now, Miss Isabella, but I do kind o' love Pat, or I'd niver be the one to swear I did. He 's been my friend these years back, an' so's Norah been too. He was my father's friend too, afore he was mine; an' av he's lonely an' gittin old an' wants one of his own counthry women to be kind to him an' to give him a dacent burial when he's dead an' gone, sure I shouldn't be the one to deny him. I'll bae kind to Patrick an' we 'll bae the bether content, livin together, than living to ourselves in a strange counthry like. Only we 'll both stay by you, darlin, as long as we live." Bridget made this speech with a curious, and comical-looking face, half-laughing and half- crying. Isabella was overcome with amusement at the ludicrous reasons she gave for her marriage with Pat, but touched, too, at the loyal kindness evinced towards herself; she smiled kindly as she answered. "Well, Biddy, if it will make Pat and yourself really happier, and poor Norah is actually dead, of course I have nothing to say against your marriage. But I must beg you not to think any more about it or to speak of it to any one, until you hear that Norah is truly and undoubtedly dead and buried."     256     HEA ENWARD LED; OR, "That's jist as sinsible as iver you are, Miss Isabella, shure there's not a bit o' use in talkin to these folks here as you say, honey. I've jist writ a bit of a letter to Pat to comfort him, an' that's all. There's niver a word about marryin in it; av you'll please be so good as to read an' see for yourself that it's all correct an' proper, an' oblige your faithful Bridget."  That she was still laboring mentally under the effects of her recent epistolary effort was evident, by the style of her concluding remarks. It was very difficult for Isabella to refrain from laugh- ing out in the girl's face, as she read the lines in- tended to be so very guarded and careful, and yet consoling to Patrick. "PATRICK MCCLOED, ME DARLIN, "May these few lines find yer well an' happy; av Norah's gone, as I suppose, from yore ilegant letter, she's like to be long ago, why, I wish her well an' safe, an' will, at me own expense, have some prayers said for her poor soul. Poor Norah! she was always a good, kindly, crethur, an' viry fond av mesself, an' I'm true enuff sorry when I think I shill niver see her agin, as, av she's real dead, it's like I niver shill, at laste in this world, that's to say. She was fond o' yer too, Patrick, an' a viry good wife she made yer. Yore clothes was amost always mended an' clane, an' the pot was a bilin, an' the pertatos reddy,   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       257 agin yer came home o'nights. But thin we can't any ov us live for iver, an' Norah was yeres older 'an yer, so it's no wonder av she's dyed the furst ov the two. Now av you shill come to Ameriky, as yer talked ov doin, in yore letter, Patrick, Biddy's not goin to be the one that ain't glad, raal glad, to see yurself. Why, yer was hur father's frend afore yer was hurs; an' it ain't so cheerful to live be yurself in a great big strange country like this. Faix, it's a kine to wishin one has all the time, to see the face ov a raal ould frend. So av you conclude to come as you sed, why, Miss Isabella 'an' me'll be the viry raalist glad to see yer as kin be; an' thin, to be shore, here's the hosses an' carrige jist a waitin tell yer come to drive 'em, which Miss Isabella 'll be glad enuff for yer to do. No more at present from yer true frend, BRIDGET MALONE." "Why, Bridget, I never sent any message to Patrick about being glad to see him, or wishing him to drive the carriage!" said Isabella in amused surprise, as she finished Bridget's remarkable letter. "No, to be sure, Miss, you niver did at all, but thin I jist knowed it all mesself as well as if you had ;" answered the unabashed maiden, with an air of triumphant self-satisfaction. 22*       R     258    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, CHAPTER EIGHTH. THE ASHTONS IN SOCIETY. APTAIN     ASHTON was late in coming down next morning to breakfast. "Well, my Queen, I suppose you had a convivial time last night with your guests? Of course, Nellie enjoyed her friends. I thought, perhaps, she would keep them all night, they stayed so late," he said as he seated himself at the table. Nellie raised her smiling face to his as she .was placing before him his daintily-prepared meal, and said: "Oh, yes, father; we did have a delightful evening; but I was wishing very much for you to be present, I am anxious for you to know good Dr. Blackstone well, he is so agreeable. Mrs. Blackstone, too, is very amusing, she is, so sensible; and Florence is like an own dear sister to us. You must admire her for Charlie's sake; he thinks she is the most captivating little lady in the world, and wants her to be your daughter one of these days." "Ah! he'll change his mind when he has seen   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       259 something of the world, and has something else to think of besides such nursery stuff. I should have been a fish out of water, though, among you all, had I stayed, and being up late in company is not to my taste in these days; so I thought it best to plead business engagements, and stay in my own sitting-room, as that was more polite than showing my ennui to the parson and his family," he replied, glancing towards Isabella to see what she thought of him. "It was not late, at all, papa, when they left. It was a long time, sir, before you came in. Charhe had walked home with them and returned; and we had been talking some time together in the drawing-room when we heard you come in the door," Isabella said, and looked as she did so searchingly into her father's face. "Oh, were you still up then? That was pretty late, I dare say. I had had an attack of vertigo a little before that. Your good housekeeping, I think, Queen, was too much for me yesterday; I must learn to be more abstemious; so I took a stroll in the fresh air, hoping to sleep better afterwards; it was of service, although it did not entirely relieve me. I shouldn't wonder if I looked the worse for it this morning."' Captain Ashton's face had become suffused with a     260    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, conscious blush as he raised his head and met Isabel- la's penetrating glance; but he had quickly recovered his composure, and .ade the above reply in a tone of assumed careless ease. He certainly was looking by no means well. Isabella looked again at him, and then said dryly: "You do look badly this morning, sir." Ellen also looked anxiously at him, and exclaimed: "Oh, yes, father, you do look so very unwell! Is your head quite easy now, sir?" she asked as she laid her hand gently on his brow. "Yes, yes, I am quite well now," he replied abruptly, and moved his head from her touch. Isabella looked at Nellie with perplexity as she saw that her assiduous attentions to their parent were really still dictated not by duty only, but by tender love. She would have been only too glad could she have shared with her the unquestioning confidence and reliance which it was evident, too, that she still placed in his word. But he himself had taught her to dis- believe him; and she was assured, in spite of his ready excuse, that his ill-feelings were but the consequence of some debauch in which he had indulged the pre- vious night. She wished him to be aware that she had marked his late return, and also remained undeceived by the apology he had made for it. She had expected   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       261 to see in Nellie's manner some change, now that she knew his character better. It perplexed her9 there- fore, to find the only change to be observed in her sister was a more heartfelt tenderness, without a shade. of distrust. How was it possible, she asked herself, for a nature so sinless as Nellie's to avoid an intense repulsion from one, on the contrary, so depraved? Nothing of this can Isabella comprehend until she has learned to judge her own heart by the spiritual law, instead of the high moral standard which she has proudly erected for herself. Charlie entered the breakfast-room, bringing a letter from the office and two notes which he had just taken from a messenger at the door. "I seem to be the only member of the family who patronizes the mails; but by private post 'Miss Ash- ton' has two favours," he said, laying two little notes before Ellen. "Who is your letter from, Charlie?" she asked. "From my friend Jack Hight, who writes that he will call for me on his way to his uncle, Captain Standish's, next week; and, if convenient, will spend a few days with me. It is convenient, I suppose," said Charlie. "'Certainly, Charlie; we shall be very glad of the opportunity of becoming acquainted with your friend,"     262    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, Isabella answered promptly, looking towards Nellie and her father for them to confirm her assertion. The father, however, did not raise his eyes from his news- paper. Nellie tried to smile, but said nothing, the fact of Charlie's going looked too real and certain. "When are you going to open your own little billets, Nellie? I have some curiosity about them, myself," said Charlie, smiling as he looked at Nellie, who seemed to have forgotten she was holding her notes in her closed hand, having scarcely glanced at the address. "Invitations to a small party at Rose McPher- son's!"Nellie exclaimed in astonishment. At this announcement, Captain Ashton, laying down his paper, asked: "What is it?" Rose McPherson, an old school-mate, sir, writes me a kind note regretting not to have found us at home when she called, and asking that we will spend a social evening with them to-morrow, to meet only a few old friends of the family; and her mother writes to ask that Charlie and yourself will accompany us. Major McPherson is away for the winter, so there was no gentleman in her family to call upon you. She hopes, therefore, you will come without waiting for that ceremony." Nellie handed the notes to her father as she   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       263 finished speaking, who looked gratified as he read them, but made no comment until she asked: "What answer shall I give, father? It is a very kind, cordial invitation, isn't it? Shall I accept it or not?" "Yes," he replied; "it is the first piece of civility I have met with since I came home, and she no doubt has some object in it; some match to make, I'll be bound. These very civil women always have an axe on hand to grind. She says she has no son; I sup- pose, then, she has some poor nephew whom she would like to enrich with Queen's Irish fortune." For some reason known only to himself, he determined to go, and said to Nellie: "Write as flourishing an answer as so flourishing an invitation deserves, and say that I will do myself the honor to accept, and at her house to give my daughters their first introduction to the society of ---- . That's what she is after; but she thought I'd send you with Charlie instead of taking you myself. I shall keep my eye upon her, and find out her match-making schemes, and let her see, too, that there is no use trying to throw dust in my eyes. You will both be objects of pursuit with designing rascals, who are after your money, especially you, Queen. We will be on our guard, and find them all but-shan't we, Queen?"     264    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, "Don't make yourself uneasy about me, if you please, papa. I think Nellie and I rather young yet to think of such things; for my own part, I never expect to marry. It would be difficult to find one with whom I would be willing to intrust the happiness of my life; my knowledge of human nature has made me sceptical," replied Isabella with a slight sigh. This her father did not notice, but looked much pleased as he rejoined. "You are always wise and prudent, Queen, and I am pleased to hear you speak so; for I have been made uneasy by remarking the attention you attract on the street. Well, if they can't get you, they 'll be after Nellie." There was a shade of ambiguous meaning in the smile and tone which accompanied Isabella's reply: "You are complimentary as usual, papa. But I am glad I have relieved your mind respecting myself; and now let me induce you to feel the same assurance regarding Nell. I'll keep vigilant guard over her, and see that you are not robbed of the treasure she is to you, independent of the landed estate to which she shall in future be entitled." Nelhe was busy writing her reply to Rose, so she had scarcely heard this conversation. About an hour later in the same day, Rose McPherson was practising some music, getting her voice in training by the   THE TWO BEQUESTS.      265 next evening; for Isabella's reputation for musical cultivation under the best masters had been widely spread, and Rose was beginning to feel alarmed at the prospect of appearing in contrast with her ex- pected guest. She was very intent upon her trills when there was a ring at the front door, to which she gave tio heed, although her pretty brown hair was still in crimpers, and she had not taken off her break- fast robe. She was confident of io interruption from visitors, as it would be an hour before the earliest caller could present himself in a lady's parlor. She was greatly astonished when the parlor door was opened, and Lieutenant White was announced'the same Lieutenant White who had been struck with admiration of Isabella on the street the evening she had taken her first walk to the city. "Oh, Lieutenant White!" exclaimed Rose, as rising from the piano, she blushed, and put up her hands to cover the disfiguring crimpers. "I did not think even you would call at so early an hour! Why, it is scarcely eleven o'clock, and here you've caught me preparing to make a great impression to-morrow evening. But I shall not speak another word;" and left the room, but she did not keep him waiting more than fifteen minutes, before she returned very prettily and be- comingly dressed. 23     266    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, "I had a sweet little note from Nellie, responding cordially to my advances towards the renewal of our old friendship. Wouldn't you like to see how grace- fully she expresses herself?" she held towards him Nellie's note, as if intending to let him see it, but withdrew it again quickly as he reached out his hand to take it, saying: ' Oh, no, you won't care to see it, for it's written on foreign paper, with initials, which, though very pretty; are not exactly Nellie's." She laughed archly as she said this, and pretending not to see the increased eagerness which her last words produced in the young man's manner, quietly replaced the note in her pocket, and continued, with' bright, eager animation: "Now, let's see whom we shall have to meet them; young Dr. Blackstone must, of course, be invited to meet Isabella, by whose charms he should be entirely enslaved by this time, seeing her so often as he does, and as you are only interested in keeping Nellie's admirers off, you can't object to the Doctor." This was said in a strain of ironic banter. She took it for granted that every one knew, as well as she did, how much Dr. Blackstone was interested in Nellie. Lieutenant White laughed a little, but began to feel annoyed and impatient at this vein of badinage. Laying aside her tormenting and mischievous incli-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       267 nations, she said more seriously: "There-I'll be done wasting time with this trifling nonsense now. You shall see Nellie's note if you wish, in spite of the wrong initials. In her note to mamma she says her father and brother will accept our invitation, and that puts a more serious face upon the matter, at least as far as her father is concerned. Charlie we expected, of course. Without being insincere people, we did hope the Captain would plead one of those happy ex- cuses suitable to every occasion, and decline giving us his company." Rose laughed gayly at the remembrance of her mo- ther's chagrin when she received Captain Ashton's acceptance. "Now, pray tell me whom we shall ask to meet him. Mr. Bernard is elderly enough, though I should be considered talking treason were I heard to say so of this amaranthine beau." "I can tell you of one, at least, who is elderly enough, and who will be delighted to come-Colonel Fitzhugh. He is an acquaintance of the captain's, though not so ardent adn mirer of his as of his two daughters." "What an idea that is, Lieutenant White, of yours, about Colonel Fitzhugh.'s admiring Nellie Ashton! He is as old as her father, isn't he?-and a widower     268     EA VENWARD LED; OR, with five or six nearly grown-up sons. If you think he'll come to meet his old acquaintance I'll be very glad. And then, there is his sister, Miss Lucy, a lady just the right age. We must have all the Black- stone family, for they are so intimate at the Park. Then there's Major and Mrs. Whitehurst, who, for mamma and papa's sake, will do the polite to the cap- tain. The Browns, and the Fountaines, and the Thorpes. You know it is to be the tiniest mite of a party, as we agreed, and I should not much wonder if its stupidity were to be in proportion-inverse pro- portion, you know." "As if you could give an entertainment of any 'dimensions,' which was not sprightly and agreeable. I feel quite confident it will go off well; but there is my friend George Stanley, you must allow me to in- vite him, cousin Rose." Lieutenant White looked very mischievous as he said this, and had the pleasure now of seeing Rose blush as she answered hastily: "Ah! yes, you are so anxious for it to come off that you are very sanguine, I dare say. Noi, I'll run and call mamma, and see what she says, and then you can proceed to write every invitation your- self. You can ask Mre Stanley, if you choose-I don't care."   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       269 Mrs. McPherson willingly agreed to all they pro- posed, adding more names to their list, which she thought would make the evening pleasanter. Mrs. McPherson was not the designing person Cap- tain Ashton supposed, but only a very amiable, kindly- disposed little woman of the world. She had a high respect for the Ashton name, and a full appreciation of the prestige attached to it. At the same time she felt in the young girls a sincere interest, knowing how unfit their father was to give them a proper introduc- tion into society, and that they had no eider lady rela- tive to chaperone them. She may probably have felt some especial pleasure in the prospect of Isabella's brilliant career as a beauty and an heiress, for there is undoubtedly a natural proneness in the human heart to like to appear before the world as patron of those whom the polite world considers as worthy of especial attention; and if Mrs. McPherson had this natural weakness, she made amends for it by the esti- mation in which she held also Ellen's more modest charms, and the desire she manifested to cultivate an intimate friendship between her daughter Rose and herself. Though her entertainment on this occasion had been partly prompted by Heutenant White's often- expressed wish to be introduced to the Misses Ashton, 23*     270    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, still it was with no match-making views whatever, but simply dictated by that kindly interest which good- hearted women of her age feel in the opening pros- pects of their young friends, in all things pertaining to their respective relations as beaux and belles. Lieutenant White was a connection of hers, and she liked him, and was willing to promote his acquaint- ance amongst the most desirable and marriageable ladies. Rose McPherson was very pretty and attractive, had been loved and caressed all her life, and had never been without a host of admirers. She took no great credit to herself on account of her beaux, and was not disturbed by the fear of losing any of them. She had a natural vein of coquetry in her composi- tion, not enough to make her a heartless trifler with the feelings of another, but sufficient to give zest to her playful sallies, and arch, sprightly repartee; so, at least, the'gentlemen themselves all said, and they should certainly know. She was a year or so older than Nellie; they had gone to the same school and been in the same classes, and had become very friendly and social.  Even before the connection between Mrs. McPher- son and Lieutenant Whije had been discovered, he had established himself on a very intimate footing in the ,   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       271 household, and was both a warm admirer and friend of Rose; many of their acquaintances would indeed believe nothing else but that they were engaged, al- though Rose took great pains to disclaim any feeling on either side but friendly esteem. Rose was young enough in her feelings to enjoy his confidence in his love plots, and to promise to help him. In half-jest, half-earnest, he had descanted to her upon Isabella, her beauty, grace, and many other attractions which he had discovered. Rose was, as usual, deeply interested to see how the matter was going to result. The sisters spent a busy morning in the city, shop- ping for Charlie. Ellen had determined to dispose of her painting, "Father's come," that she might pur- chase a nice outfit for him. But when she proposed to Isabella they should sell it to Mr. Kirkwell, and the piece was held up before Isabella by the blush- ing, conscious-looking Nellie, she exclaimed, warmly: "Sister Nell, you shall never let that picture leave this house! I like it so much! There is a great deal of grace and easy naturalness in the grouping of the figures; and so much life and expression in the whole piece. George, Rosa, and Mam Polly, are excellent; there is certainly a likeness in their faces. Charlie.     272    HEA ENWARD LED; OR, too, is very good. You have not done yourself jus- tice, nor can I see much resemblance in papa, but I shall prize the painting of all things; so do let me keep it. Won't you, dear Nell?" It was interesting to watch the various quickly suc- ceeding changes in Ellen's face, as she listened, first incredulously, and then with unfeigned gratification, to her sister's expressions of genuine admiration. The modest little artist stood some minutes, silently blushing more and more, before she could recover her- self enough to speak. Then she said: "Oh, Issy! I can't tell you how happy you make me feel! I am so glad you like my picture! nothing could give me greater pleasure than to let you keep it, since you really wish it." Remembering the great desire she had for the money to purchase her brother's outfit, she stopped suddenly, and added, with hesitation in her manner: "But no, Issy, I forgot; I shall have to sell this, and paint another for you, or with improvements if you suggest any. I could add you to the group, coming to gladden our home, as you have done. What a happy change you have made in our life here, Issy!" Isabella discerned Nellie's purpose. She had been planning to make the purchases necessary for Charlie, and to get Nellie to ride to the stores with her that   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       273 morning; but, now, she would not disappoint Nellie's plans. Concealing, under a tone of playful raillery, her knowledge of her sister's purpose, as well as her own touched feelings at the allusion to her coming home, Isabella exclaimed, laughingly: "Oh! you little miser, sister Nell! I am shocked at you! So you thought I did not mean to pay you for your work? Just let me secure my property; this very identical picture will I have, and no other! and here, Miss Ashton, is a small compensation in return for the great treasure I have purchased." So saying, she put the painting close beside her, and seating herself at the cabinet, wrote off a check rapidly, and thrust it into Nellie's hand, assuming a countenance and tone of measured self-satisfaction, and adding: "It is so very pleasant, you see, Miss Ashton, to be an heiress, since one can thus have it in one's power to patronize poor but deserving young artists like yourself."  And then, while Nelhe was still laughing heartily at her mimicry, which was irresistibly droll, not having yet examined the paper Isabella had given her, she ran down stairs, saying she must order the carriage to go to town, and that, if her sister wished to accom- pany her, she must get ready at once. s     274    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, When Nellie, then recovering herself, looked at the amount for which she had just received a draft from Isabella, she was dismayed; it seemed to her almost like wealth itself-" two hundred pounds English!" Of course she could not let Issy throw away her money so! She was still standing, looking worried, when Isabella returned. "Here, dear Issy," she said gently, approaching, with the check in her extended hand, "take your, money back; I could not think of letting you throw it away on me. I do not need anything for myself. It was merely to buy Charlie's things that I wished it; but now that I think of it, you can buy them your- self, which will beW all the same; and keep my paint- ing as a free-will offering of love. I should be so much gratified if you would let me give some little thing to you, who are always lavishing so freely upon me." Seeing Isabella still hesitate, she added: "I shall not feel satisfied, Issy, indeed I shall not, if you refuse me this." "Why, Nell, are you not always giving me your love? such a pure treasure as it is to me! Could money ever repay you for that?  We have each received our portions, and I can consent to let you lavish yours on me-why cannot you permit the poor exchange of a small share of mine? You know much   THE' TWO BEQUESTS.      275 better what Charlie wants, so it would be best for you to get his things, as I guessed you intended to do, when you began stammering about the price of your work. I had thought of doing it, I confess, but you have fairly earned the privilege for yourself." "No, Issy, I Insist that you shall carry out your own original design; use your judgment in the matter, and there is no danger of your not succeeding in selecting what is suitable." "Well, let us get ready now for our shopping, or we shall be late," Isabella answered, with the quiet tone she was apt to have when most deeply moved; and the rest of the day was occupied by them in attending to Charlie's arrangements. The next morning, at breakfast, Isabella sat look- ing thoughtfully at Nellie for some minutes, when sud- denly she asked: "Sister Nell, what dress do you wear to-night?" Ellen, with a puzzled smile on her face, answered: "Indeed, Issy, I don't know. I had never thought of it until this moment; and now I very much doubt whether I have any dress that would be suitable." Isabella laughed gleefully, and said: "That is so exactly like you, sister Nell! I won- der you don't forget that you exist at all sometimes! Now, make me a promise that I may dress you as I     276    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, wish this evening t I have set my heart on it, and have the whole plan laid out, just how you are to ap- pear. I promise you, too, that the colors shall )be in your own style, sweet and modest." "Certainly, Issy, and many thanks to yourself too, for it, as Biddy would say; but what shall you wear yourself?" said Ellen. "I had hoped not to go at all. There will be enough of you without me. I had rather stay at home and take care of George and Rosa." "Oh! no, Issy, that would never do. Mrs. McPherson and Rose intend this as a special compli- ment to father and yourself, and their invitation has been accepted for you," replied Ellen. Isabella was obliged to reconcile herself to going into society amongst strangers and casual acquaint- ances, from which her proud sensitive spirit, still not entirely healed of the wound it had received at Baden- Baden, shrunk back with nervous horror. She was, however, ready to extend a cordial wel- come, at all times, to visitors who came to seek them under their own roof; being very ambitious that their old homestead should regain its ancient reputation for generous and elegant hospitality, and its high intel- lectual influence in the neighboring community-and with her elder-sisterly manner she urged Nellie's go   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       2" ing out into the world with an eagerness that seemed hardly consistent with her own repugnance to it. The sisters were busy all the morning, each apart in her own room; Ellen putting various finishing touches to Charlie's things; Isabella, with the door locked upon Bridget and herself, was occupied in remodelling to fit Nellib a lovely, soft' pearl-colored Irish poplin of her own, appropriate to Nellie's style of beauty. For herself to wear, she decided upon a mauve-colored poplin, with an exquisite pearl neck- lace, bracelets, &c. When the time to be dressed arrived, Nellie tapped at Isabella's door; when it was opened, she entered with a shy smile and blush, as if almost ashamed of her vanity in letting Isabella take so much trouble to dress her. Isabella had been waiting anxiously to begin her work, and soon had her seated to have her hair dressed; her own skilful fingers wove the threads of mingled brown and gold into all manner of graceful coils and silken meshes, and on her brow amidst its rippling wavelets, was placed a coronet of delicate blue turquoise, set like stars, and surrounded by fine pearls. The dress fitted perfectly, and when the toilet was finished the whole effect was so elegant, yet fault- lessly simple and chaste, the most modest and unob- trusive taste could find nothing of which to complain. 24     278    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, Nellie, as she stood off blushingly to be examined, looked so lovely, that Isabella drew her triumphantly in front of the tall mirror, and watched with animated interest to see the effect which would be produced upon her by her appearance. And as Ellen looked up and saw the lovely reflection in the mirror, the inno- cent child, who had scarcely ever given a moment's thought to her personal adornment, uttered an excla- mation of surprise and pleasure; so fully satisfied was her own taste for refined purity and beauty. But the next moment a penitent look stole into her face, and slipping quickly into her own room, she closed the door, and kneeling by the, window into which the pale new moonbeams were stealing, raised her eyes to heaven, and with artless simplicity, thanked her Heavenly Father for having made her fair and pleasing to the sight of her fellow-creatures, peni- tently owned the feelings of vain self-gratulation which she feared had been raised in her heart, and prayed to be kept from undue self-estimation and craving for admiration; to be made tender and thoughtful towards others, and lovingly disposed to see all that was good and lovely in them; and to remember her own gifts only to be thankful for them to the Good Giver. Then she returned to Isabella, and thanking her cor- dially for all her kind trouble, frankly owned her suc- *   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       279 cess complete, at which Isabella looked exceedingly gratified. "And, now Issy, do let me arrange your hair in return, and see if I cannot emulate your skill," Nellie added, with a bright face. "Go, sister Nell, and show yourself to the house- hold, and report when I come down the public senti- ment as to my understanding artistic effect, and some other time I'll let you act as Biddy's rival." On the landing Nellie met Charlie coming from his room, with George following closely, holding the candle by which his elder brother had been making his toilet. In his delight at his sister Nellie's beauti- ful appearance, he made a misstep, and fell so close to his sister's feet that it was a wonder she escaped being burned. When they reached the drawing-room mutual congratulatory sallies passed between Charlie and herself. Isabella had prevailed upon Charlie not only to purchase a new dress-suit to replace the shabby one he had been wearing, but also to accept as a loan, if not a gift, the amount for which she had originally written the order for Nellie. He had found it quite impossible to resist her affectionate urging on both these points; and as the money was sufficient to pay his college debts he felt his heart lightened, and was     280    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, anticipating with boyish ardor the enjoyment of the social pleasures of the evening. Isabella soon made her appearance to divide with Nellie the glories of the occasion. And no wonder if Captain Ashton's heart swelled with pride as he entered Mrs. McPherson's drawing-room with his two beautiful daughters and noble-looking young son. Rose's company had amounted to about fifty per- sons, who had nearly all arrived, and were standing about in pleased-looking groups. At the head of the room were standing when the Ashtons entered, Mrs. McPherson, talking to Colonel Fitzhugh, and beside her Rose, Lieutenant White, and Mr. Bernard. Lieutenant White had challenged Colonel Fitzhugh to await there for the entree, that he might have an opportunity of witnessing the eclipse of his "pretty little charmer by the more dazzling charms of her magnificent sister."  When, however, Nellie's blushing face appeared in the doorway he could not repress a murmur of admi- ration. For his own amusement he never lost an op- portunity of spouting a line or so of poetry to his old friend the colonel, who was so devoted to pure mathe- matics as to have neglected the cultivation of light literature, and to have a great contempt for all poet- asters. Accordingly the lieutenant now whispered   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       281 in his friend's ear with a merry twinkle in his eye, "Colonel, "'A violet by a mossy stone Half hidden from the eye; Fair as a star when only one Is shining in the sky.'  Then catching a glimpse of Isabella in the back- ground, he added quickly: "But, after all, what are violets, or mossy stones, or stars either, to the sun? And sure- "'No sun upon an Easter day Were half so fine a sight' As yonder radiant creature. Colonel, are you not bewildered and confounded by its brightness?" Just at this moment some one came up to speak to the young lieutenant. He managed very adroitly to disengage himself in time for Rose to present him in company with his two friends, Mr. Bernard and the colonel. The latter gentleman could no longer with- hold his forgiveness to the father of two such lovely- looking girls; for, notwithstanding his frequent decla- rations, that he never cared to recognise his old ac- quaintance Richard Ashton again, and should forget they had ever known each other, he walked forward, and, extending his hand, expressed in warm terms, 24*     282    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, which were at that moment sincere, the pleasure at seeing him again. Mr. Bernard had known Captain Ashton, and also now shook his hand. In many respects Mr. Bernard was a droll and highly original character. His age was not very far behind that of Captain Ashton and Colonel Fitzhugh, although the careful toilet which he made, and his brown wig, and the fine set of white teeth, for which -he was equally free from obligation to dame Nature, made him look much more juvenile. Without possessing talents qualifying him to take more than a second-rate standing in his profession, he had yet such entertaining qualities as a companion as to make his society in demand. The young men of the clubs vied with each other in offering him induce- ments to join them, and he had several times refused invitations to travel at the expense of an acquaint- anceship. Without any striking personal attractions, he had long been regarded as a social oracle on all questions of taste and manners-an autocrat, as Rose McPherson called him, over the realm of bon ton. He talked so much of himself and his adventures, that it was not possible he should always pause long enough to consider whether what he told redounded particularly to his credit or not. If the stories were laughable, and he their principal hero, his   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       283 ambition was satisfied. His constancy to the lady of his early affections, proved him possessed of more depth of feeling than he was usually credited with. In spite of having been jilted by her many times, he remained true to her, and every three or four months they became again engaged for as many weeks, and then as the public had risen on the tip-toe of expecta- tion for the approaching bridal, the inconstant fair one would break off with him. This experience had considerably soured and rasped the gentleman's tem- per, and he did not hesitate to berate publicly the fickleness of his enchanter, calling her sometimes "a regular will o' the wisp," who, he said, had been leading him through all sorts of delusive wilds and tangles for nearly twenty years, simply for the pur- pose of amusing herself, by playing fast and loose with his affections. "And why I am such a fool as to submit to it, sir, I can't tell you, unless the old charmer bewitched me in my green youth with some potent spell, for which there is no counter-charm." But to return to our gallant Lieutenant White. He was totally unprepared to find himself so much over- powered and abashed as he felt after having obtained his long-wished for introduction to Isabella. It was a new and annoying experience for a thorough lady's     284    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, man, respected and liked by them, and always easy and assured in their society. Rose instantly detected his embarrassment, and enjoyed it highly; a mirthful, meaning smile had played round her rosy lips when she had introduced both the colonel and himself. And she could not resist the inclination to direct, presently, by an arch glance, Mr. Bernard's attention to his friend the lieutenant's predicament. Then she added in a whisper, 'What do you think of the sisters, Mr. Bernard? Are they not both beautiful? Which do you admire most, the colonel's or the lieutenant's choice?" Holding up his hands in a deprecating manner, and putting on a look of feigned terror, Mr. Bernard exclaimed in his high, nasal voice: "Pray, Miss McPherson, don't overpower me with three such questions, piled at once upon my conscience and my veracity." "You can answer my first question, and that will do for the present, since you are so captiously disposed this evening." In reply to her, he said, shrugging his shoulders: "Let me see, what was question number one? What do I think of the sisters? Pray, to what portion of them do you refer, to the corpo-re-al or the incorpo- re-al? as my old schoolmaster used to say."   THE TWO BE QUESTS.      285 "Oh, Mr. Bernard, how provoking you can be! Do you think the Misses Ashton handsome?" said Rose with playful petulance. "That was very well done, Miss Rose! That little shake of your head set your ringlets into very grace- ful motion. It is a great thing for a pretty woman to know how to use her artillery; you understand it well-clever person, Miss Rose, decidedly clever. Ah! yes, and you put your question, too, quite clearly and pointedly at the last. Yes, I think the Misses Ashton decidedly handsome. That tall one is a perfect Juno, and White would, evidently, like to be her Jupiter too, I see; he 'll be a hopeless case before the evening's over. The little one? why, she is a charming little attendant grace. I see she's a little love of a woman. Great mind to go and make love to her myself--but no, she might be one of the sort who get mistaken in their feelings!" In saying this he had assumed the air of a man terror-stricken by some phantom which his imagina- tion had summoned up; and then Rose and he both laughed merrily. Charhe had very soon made his way to Florence's side, and they were both as happy and innocently absorbed with each other, as if there had been no world of critical observers of whose remarks to be afraid. Young Doctor Blackstone was     286    HEA VENWARD LED; OR, looking with wistful glances in the direction of the little group, in which were standing Colonel Fitzhugh, Ellen, and heq father. A little in advance of them was Lieutenant White with Isabella, whose conversa- tion and society he was beginning to enjoy highly, having by this time recovered, to some degree, his customary ease of manner, and felt highly indig- nant as he presently observed Dr. Blackstone looking towards them in a manner which, he thought, indi- cated an intention to join them. He instantly recalled Rose McPherson's jesting words of the day before, about the opportunity the young M. D. had enjoyed for knowing and falling in love with Isabella, and in a very pugnacious spirit promptly determined to resent any attempt to thrust himself between him and his own coveted prize; and as he saw the doctor now advancing, he suddenly bethought himself of trying to carry Isabella off before he could reach them. He offered her his arm, and asked her to go with him to the music-room for a promenade. How little he dreamed of the shrinking, retiring feelings, which were concealed under that composed stately carriage; or the painful dread of attracting observation to herself by the slightest action which seemed in the least conspicuous! She was a little embarrassed as she looked up at him and said;   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       287 "Pray, excuse me for the present, I would rather not be the first to go." Dr. Blackstone was beside them, intending to pass on and secure the vacant place by Nellie's side. But, no sooner did Lieutenant White observe Isabella speaking very graciously to him, than, in a fit of unreasonable jealousy, he fell back by Nellie himself; imagining that Isabella had seen, as well as he, the doctor advancing, and purposely remained to meet him; and so the prize was relin- quished without a struggle. Rose had watched the whole proceeding from where she was standing; thoroughly understanding the ludicrousness of Lieu- tenant White's mistake, her eyes were brimming over with mischievous delight. A short time afterwards she floated by, on young Stanley's arm, and could not forbear whispering behind her fan, to Lieutenant White, as she passed him, "Faint heart never won fair lady." Poor Lieutenant White!  How he would have laughed at another man who had shown the green- ness, as he would assuredly have called it, which had marked his intercourse up to this time with the lady with whom he desired to ingratiate himself! In his mental review of it, after the evening was over, he' was completely at a loss how to account for his " con- founded stupidity," and much provoked at himself.     288    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, It was some time before he again ventured to do more than follow with admiring eyes the tall, grace- ful form as it floated first in one and then another part of the room, and wonder what the rosy, arched lips were saying when the eyes flashed so brightly in harmony with the smile which accompanied her words. She was called upon again and again to sing: and one scarcely knew which to admire most, the wonderful power and execution displayed in the magnificent operatic pieces, in which, with entrancing melody, her voice would dwell upon one prolonged note; or the touching ballads, which she sung with exquisite ex- pression. After the singing, every one's heart seemed drawn towards the beautiful songster, and admiring eyes followed her motions with more interest than ever. She was unquestionably the cynosure of that little evening company. The old minister asked for some sacred music before he left; and Isabella, calling Ellen, Rose, and one or two others; sang with them the Oratorio of Ruth and Naomi, and one or two hymns. After the old gentleman had gone, which was quite early, Rose and Lieutenant White proposed a dance, Rose offering to play for them; but, to their great disappointment, neither Isabella nor Ellen danced.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       289 Isabella insisted upon taking Rose's place at the piano, and allowing her to join the dancers. All the music she knew of this sort she had caught by ear from the bands which played at the Conversations- haus at Baden-Baden. It was found very agreeable, and well suited to the dancers, and she continued, amiably and kindly, to contribute in this manner to the enjoyment of the rest for some time. When the sets broke up, Lieutenant White came up and offered his arm to escort Isabella across the room to Nellie, who had been seated for some time on a low ottoman, near a window whibh opened out into the conservatory. She had been talking earnestly with a pale youth seated on one side of her, in a low easy- chair. Nellie held in her hand, while talking, a bunch of lovely flowers, which they had been examin- ing; and Dr. William Blackstone, standing at her other side, had bent down very often to take an interested part in the conversation of his two companions. After Mark Wilson, the pale-faced youth, had been introduced, Nelhe said to Isabella: "Issy, Mr. Wilson is so very fond of music, that he came in while you were singing. He says he heard you up in his own room across the street, and could not stay away." "Yes, Miss Ashton, I cannot tell you how much 25       T     290    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, good your musc3 has done me this evening. I was very miserable, for my mind often sympathizes with my poor shell of a body, and at such times I can find no comfort in anything, but feel as if it were a cruel punishment to be obliged to live, a burden as I am, to myself and every one else. I was feeling just so to-night, when softest notes of music came stealing into the room, and gradually seemed to wrap me round and round, and to lull every disquieting thought and feeling to rest, and then, as it went on, it stirred my soul within me to such a blissful ecstasy as I can- not describe, but I felt as if I must draw nearer to the spot from whence those joy-giving sounds issued, and that is why you see such an unfortunate creature here." Notwithstanding the sadness of his words, his coun- tenance was lighted up, as he finished speaking, with a bright, intellectual smile. Isabella had observed, as she looked at him, that his lower limbs were wasted and shrunken, so that he could only move by being wheeled in his chair or carried in the arms; his face, however, was an interesting one, full of the power both of intellect and will, which seemed to strive to keep the mastery over pain, whose lines were written on the pale forehead and around the closely-com-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       291 pressed mouth. In answer to what he had said, she gaye him one of her sweetest smiles as she replied: "Sister Nell and I will come to see you and sing for you sometimes, if you think it would do you good. You must send and let us know when you want us." There was a childlike simplicity and directness in the way she made this offer which was very captivat- ing, and made her yet more lovable in the eyes of the young lieutenant, who was already prepared to wor- ship devoutly her every tone and glance. Young Wilson looked up gratefully to her, and said: "Thank you heartily, Miss Ashton, for your kind offer, which I will most thankfully accept. It is not all music that I feel as I did your voice to-night. Your sister and I have long been acquainted, although we never met until to-night. She has afforded me many an hour's pleasant entertainment, trying to copy, in my rough way, some of her gracefully wrought-out fancies. Painting, music, and flowers, fortunately for me, I dearly love. But sometimes, as to-night for instance, I am too weary and worn to make any exertion or even to discipline my thoughts -the poor vanquished mind succumbs to its master, pain--my stoicism and all forsake me, and I am fret- ful and repining. It was Saul, was it not? who re-     292    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, quired the agency of music to allay his dark spirit, when it rose up. So it is with me." Both sisters had listened kindly to him, and each showed how much she was touched by what he had said. His language had that prematurely old sound which is often the effect of long and severe physi- cal pain, but it was hard to judge from his appear- ance what his age might be. His shrunken and dwarfed body might have belonged to a very young child, and .his face looked youthful in spite of his sunken sallow cheeks and brow, furrowed with lines drawn by suffering, controlled, but acute. He was about Ellen's own age. She had been listening, with anxious interest, to hear him speak of some other source of comfort and strength, than what the intel- lect or the refined pleasures of cultivated taste and of the senses could afford him, in his hours of anguish. After a little thoughtful silence, she said, very gently: "I know a poor companion of yours in tribulation, Mr. Wilson, who has had even more experience in the school of suffering than you; and yet she is so cheer- ful, and has more inward peace and quietness than any one I ever knew; even while writhing in bodily anguish there is a comforted look in her face, and no murmur escapes her lips. Yet there is nothing intel- lectual in this-the source of her comfort is entirely   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       293 spiritual. She says it takes great sickness and suf- fering to make one know how tender are the mercies of God, and how bright the Saviour's loving face can make the darkest hour. She has been twenty long years, now, bed-ridden; so she has had time to test the best of comforters and friends, has she not?" "Twenty years, did you say? Ah! that is indeed a long, long time to suffer! for days and nights are doubly long when spent in painful, restless tossings, to and fro. It is a reproach to me, who have been so worn out with my six years' experience. God grant it be not protracted to twenty years! Has she been bed-ridden all that time? How can she bear it?" "If you should ask her how she bears it, she would smile, and say, 'Why, young master, I should hardly like to say that I bear it at all. It is all the good Lord Jesus, sir, who comforts me so by his love and pity, that it seems like nothing to suffer a little pain for him, when I know that he sends even that, all in love, too; and will, by and by, take me home to live with him, where there is no more pain, aid no more aching hearts or heads, or limbs; but all is joy and love, for ever and for ever; and what are twenty years to for ever and for ever-all eternity?' Have you not often heard her say these things, Dr. Blackstone?" 25*     294    .HEA VENWARD LED; OR, and she looked up smilingly to the young doctor to confirm her words. "I have, indeed, Miss Nellie. Poor old Mother Fant could teach rare lessons of faith and patience to many a Christian minister, who may have been preach- ing about them for years, without knowing half so well what they mean as she does. From my very earliest recollection my father has been visiting her, and I remember well how, as a little saucy rascal, I used to tell him I always knew when he had been to see Mother Fant, because he was so much more gentle and patient and forbearing with my wild tricks after- wards. I had a feeling that I was bound to verify the opinion that ministers' children are worse than other people's." The young doctor had a fine, open, manly face, full of kindly feeling and pleasant humor, and his hearty, ready laugh was infectious in its light-hearted gaiety. His many warm friends all said of him that William Blackstone was one of the rare people in the world who are better than they profess to be. His tal- ents were of so high an order, and his popularity so great, as to leave no doubt as to his professional success. Ellen's chief reason, however, for the high estima- tion in which she held him, was the simple fact that he was a sincere, though most unassuming, unpretend-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       295 ing Christian gentleman; and Isabella's, that he was such a high-minded, upright, honorable gentleman, whom one could esteem and trust. Just as the doctor finished his corroboration of Ellen's account of "Mother Fant," a tall, pale faced- gentleman, who had entered the room, drew near; he was the same whom Ellen had described to Isabella as the purchaser of her paintings-Mark Wilson's father. He was a wealthy man, who had acquired his wealth 'through his own industry. There had been once a severe crisis in his business affairs, when he was threatened with failure through the misman- agement of other parties; but Jiudge Ashton, whose liberal hand was always prompt in rendering kindly succor, by timely loans, enabled him to surmount his embarrassments, and from that day he had enjoyed uninterrupted prosperity. He never forgot his obli- gations to Judge Ashton, nor was he ever too proud to speak of them with grateful acknowledgment. Mr. Wilson was delighted when the opportunity was presented to render a service to the descendants of his former benefactor, for he surmised the truth regarding Ellen's scant allowance from her father. He knew nothing about the intrinsic merit of her work, nor did he care, but willingly became her con- stant purchaser; he was also charmed to find how     296    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, much enjoyment his son derived from the paintings and designs. Mr. Wilson said nothing to Mr. Kirkwell of his principal motive in purchasing so extensively as he did, because he wished to heighten that gentleman's appreciation of Ellen's work, that she might be the more acceptable as a visitor at the store of the shrewd man of business. When he was introduced to Isa- bella, at Mrs. McPherson's, he thanked her warmly for the comfort she had been the means of affording his poor paralyzed boy. "And, father," said Mark, with an eager look of delight, "she has promised to come to see me, and to sing for me sometimes when I have an ill turn. And this one, Miss Nellie is her name, whom you have talked to me about so often, that I felt at once as if we were old friends, is going to copy for me in wax these lovely flowers which Miss Rose gave me." And then turning to Nellie, herself, he added, "and you must come and talk to me some more about Mother Fant, and teach me to prepare for a twenty years' campaign against bodily pain and men- tal darkness and discontent." A slight sigh followed these last words, and then his father spoke cheeringly to him, saying, "Why, my son, I think you'll be a favored invalid if the ladies should help to while away -\   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       297 your tedious hours of confinement. I suppose you extended an invitation to the gentlemen also?" *    "I don't know that the gentlemen would like to come to see a poor sick boy, but I'll be very glad, and will do my best to entertain them," he answered, coloring diffidently, as he looked towards Dr. Black- stone and Lieutenant White, who both promised to do themselves the pleasure of calling. "Now, Mark, my boy, I cametotake you home. Are you not ready to go?" asked his father. "Oh, yes, I suppose so, sir, if it is time; but if Miss Ashton would sing for me once more, I should be so thankful to her," he answered. Both Nellie and Isabella consented promptly, and after a little consultation together, decided upon a pretty sacred piece, which Isabella had arranged in the form of a duet. It was called "Earth and Heaven ;" and without leaving their places near his chair, they sang it for him; but the whole room became still as soon as the first note of Isabella's voice was heard. In low plaintive tones she sang the first two lines: "Earth, with all its sin and sadness, Pain and sickness, grief and care ;" To which Ellen, in glad, clear, hopeful tones re- sponded:     298     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, "Heaven, with its unspoken gladness, Light and love and all that's fair." And then, together in chorus, they took up the last two lines of the stanza: 4 How the two contrasted stand- This dark world, and that bright land 1" Isabella- "Here the eye grows dim with weeping, Here the cheek is wan with woe, Nellie, very softly-- "For the loved ones who are sleeping; For the hopes that are laid low. Both, exultantly- ' In the light of Heaven's ray, Tears of Earth are wiped away." Isabella--- ' Here our toilsome way pursuing, Compassed round with many foes; Nellie- "' Pleasures are not worth the wooing, Thorns are found with every rose; Both- "There-the sorrowful are blest; There-the weary are at rest." The company dispersed soon after this, and went t their homes, with those accordant sisters' voices sound ing in their ears cheering words, which called ther to turn their thoughts from earth to heaven.    L THE TWO BEQUESTS.       299 CHAPTER NINTH. AFTER THE PARTY. ISS McPherson's sociable was pronounced f a brilliant success by her guests, and the Misses Ashton were discussed with marvel- lously few disparaging remarks intermingled with the general voice of admiration. Colonel Fitz- hugh, Lieutenant White, and Mr. Bernard walked home in company. The two officers were very inti- mate, especially considering the difference not only in their ages but in their ranks in the army also. The colonel had been a kind friend to the young lieuten- ant, whose commission he had obtained; and from the time of his entering the service he had regarded him somewhat in the light of his ward. Mr. Bernard was quite intimate with the lieutenant, whom he honored by ranking among his few real friends. He was well acquainted with the colonel also. "Well, colonel, what do you think of the two sisters now?" asked Lieutenant White, after a much longer silence than he was often known to keep in the company of these two friends.     800    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, "On my honor, Tom, if I were a young man, I should be sorely nonplussed to choose between them, and should just end in being thankful to take which- ever I could get, for I don't think either-of them would make a fellow very miserable," answered the old gentleman jocosely. They all laughed, and Mr. Bernard drawled out with a yawn, "Better turn Mormon and take 'em both, if they don't object, and Mas. Bring-em- Young don't say you shan't have 'em. Hey, colonel? I've a great mind to do it myself." Lieutenant White gave him an indignant glance, at which he chuckled with delighted triumph. Then the old colonel proceeded gravely to compare them: "The tall one,' Queen Isabella,' as her father ap- propriately calls her, improves wonderfully on ac- quaintance. Tom, I had no idea she would be so accessible and affable; but the little one is so soft and lovable, so blossom-like, that she'd make springtime of the roughest winter weather. May no rough blasts ever reach the dear tender child! I could al- most exchange one of my boys with Richard Ashton for that sweet little girl-a daughter like that would make one's fireside very bright and pleasant." "Daughter, indeed! Now, my friend, remember who's your company, and don't try to put green I   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       30 spectacles on such keen eyes as have been watching your old-fashioned love-making to the father all this evening, and pretend you were only after adopting a daughter in place of one of your boys," said Mr. Bernard, saucily. "Bernard, doh't be impertinent. I allow no one to jest with me on such a subject," answered the colonel sharply, and with dignity. Lieutenant White had been amused, but was frightened when he saw how seriously offended his old friend was likely to become should the jest be carried any further; and in order to divert his attention from the subject, he said quickly: "It would be very difficult for any one to say which of the two is most charming, I should think. They are both so good. A fellow would feel afraid for Miss Isabella to know he 'd been doing wrong, but would almost weep with pity and sorrow for him-- self should he ever make the compassionate look, which I can imagine there, come into Miss Nellie's face. By the way, colonel, I think Blackstone is in love with one of them. Which do you think it is?" said the lieutenant. "Why, little Miss Nellie, Tom, to be sure-that was plain enough for any eyes," answered the colonel vith interest. 26     302    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, "(I don't know about that, colonel, for his eyes were scarcely off Miss Isabella for a second; he has an easy, old-friend's manner with Miss Nellie; but it seemed to me there was more of the lover towards Miss Isabella. I thought he was going beside him- self when she was singing. Why, 4e was positively annoying to me with his clamor." Mr. Bernard gave a low, almost inaudible, snicker and the colonel replied warmly: "Why, for that matter, Tom, anybody might hav gone beside himself at such singing as that. I coul scarcely keep my own head straight, for never did hear such a divine voice in my life; and with all he cultivation, the young lady has no affectation; ther was no mouthing or grimacing to spoil the pleasuI you felt in looking at the singer. That ' Last Rose c Summer' almost took me off my feet, although I': not so young as the doctor or yourself, and have be( thought too much of a dry old bones to care f music, still, it's astonishing you should not have sec that Blackstone's whole heart and soul are devoted Miss Nellie's service." Mr. Bernard had been, for him, wonderfully su dued since the snubbing Colonel Fitzhugh had giv d  him, but with his irrepressible audacity again in t] ascendant, he gave a significant laugh, and asked   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       303 "Will you two gentlemen favor me with your ears while I bestow a few words of wholesome advice upon you, and whom the cap fits can wear it. 'Be- ware, my lords, of jealousy; it is the green-eyed monster, which doth mock us of the meat it feeds on.' I wonder if it -often attacks respectable fathers of families regarding their pretty young daughters? How think you, Colonel Fitzhugh?" But Lieutenant White, seeing that the colonel was gowing wrathful again, once more interposed, speak- ing so warmly as to keep his attention fixed upon himself, first giving his friend a warning glance: "You are right, colonel, about the music; it was heavenly, wasn't it? But I confess I did not know you cared for it at all, and am surprised to find you can actually repeat the first line of a song. I thought you despised all rhyming. Miss Nellie has a very lovely voice as well as her sister-don't you think so? How different they both are from other young ladies!" The young lieutenant was growing much more cautious and general in his expressions of admiration; and in spite of his repeated praise of the goodness of his two young lady friends, would fain have practised a little hypocrisy himself, and induced the two gentle- men to believe that he had no especial preference for eitner; perhaps he tried to believe so himself, think-     304    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, ing it a foolish weakness to have really and seriously fallen in love-fatally for his own peace-at almost first sight. The feeling had, at any rate, become too deep to be jestingly spoken of any longer. Some per- ception of this truth entered the colonel's mind, and excited his friendly interest. Mr. Bernard under- stood it perfectly, and before many days were over had actually read the young man's own heart for him, and made him make a full confession, besides, of aspi- rations which he had before hardly admitted to him- self. Before the three gentlemen separated on the night in question,* Lieutenant White turned rather suddenly again to Colonel Fitzhugh, and asked: "What of the father, colonel? I saw you talking quite animatedly to him for some time." "Yes, we were talking of by-gones. Poor Richard was always a fine talker; what a pity he has been good for so little besides! But I think he has im- proved somewhat. I hope so, for his children's sake, I am sure. I used to think there was no hope of a man who could resist the influence of such a wife as he had; a perfect angel she was, sir. You re- member her, Bernard? Perhaps he still thinks of her goodness, or else these sweet girls are bringing him round. How proud he is of them, too! His eyes were upon them all the evening, as watchfully as a   THE TWO BEQUESTS.      305 lover's could have been; and he took no wine. I thought those were two good indications, since he was ever too free with the bottle. I shall call to see him soon, Tom, and will call for you if you would like to go." "With all my heart, colonel, at any time you say the word." Dr. Blackstone had helped Mr. Wilson to wheel his son's chair home, and promised to call soon to see him, and then walked slowly and thoughtfully to his own quarters without discussing the evening's plea- sures with any one. Ellen's conversation had produced a deep impres- sion upon poor Mark, who, as he lay wakeful and rest- less for many a long, weary hour, remembered what she had told him of "Mother Fant," and wondered if he should have to suffer so for twenty years; and then he began to try to recall how he had been told that she was comforted, and to make out what it meant. When at length, towards morning, he fell into a light sleep, he dreamed he heard "Mother Pant" calling him "young master," and telling him not to mind a few years of pain, but to come to her, and she would show him how to bear it so that it would not seem hard at all. To Nellie and to Charlie the evening had passed 26*       U     306     EAVENWARD LED; OR, delightfully; and Isabella, too, had been surprised at her own enjoyment, and now, that the ice was broken, felt as if she should no longer dread society as she had done. It was different, she found, to be thrown into company with people who knew all about her family connections, e nd were interested in her as a member of their own community, from mingling with strangers. The freshness of novelty had enhanced to no small degree the pleasure of the three young people, who, though so widely separated, and so dif- ferently as they had been reared, had yet had the same experience with regard to their exclusion from much social intercourse wi;h young persons of their own age. What of the captiin-the kind, watchful protector and father? We think he, too, had. altogether a pleasant time of it, for he received an unusual amount of attention from his old acquaintances. Every one seemed kindly disposed to welcome him back into the higher circles of social life from which he had volun- tarily let himself down; and he had so much to tell; and knowing that he told his stories well, he was satis- fled with them and with himself. He had made in- quiries, too, about the " poor devil of a nephew," the hungry hawk who was to be let fly at Isabella, ant found there was no such ornithological specimer to be produced; nor had he been able to detect Mrs   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       307 McPherson in any undue fussiness over his chicks, or any officiousness in introducing her kith and kin to them. Everybody seemed natural and quiet, and not, as he had expected, eager to pounce right down upon the Irish property; and then the girls themselves were so modest and retiring, not seeming to care to be sur- rounded by crowds of young men--had even declined to dance with them. All this was very gratifying; so he was rewarded for his virtuous determination to accept the invitation, and quite inclined to repeat the experiment. Isabella and Ellen he imagined had heeded his advice to beware of fortune-hunters, and were quietly talking most of the evening to that harmless young doctor, who was only a member of the minister's family, whom his children had known from infancy; to "Charles Bernard," much nearer being a contemporary of his own than theirs; to a sick boy, or some equally unsuspicious and little-to-be-feared character. Once the captain had thought Lieutenant White required especial looking after; he was too long at Nellie's side or at Isabella's; but the next moment he was relieved, for they had dismissed him or were not noticing him-evidently had let him see they were not going to waste time on him. How well it was for the poor girls that they had so sharp-sighted a     308    BHEAVENWARD LED; OR, guardian to watch over their interests! Surely they must be saved from that dreaded evil, marriage, at least during their father's life. After this evening invitations came in rapidly, and many visitors called at the Park; so that Ellen and Isabella found it necessary to limit themselves as to their acceptances if they would not be drawn into a round of gaiety, for which they had no inclination. Large parties, therefore, they always declined attend- ing. At their own home, however, their visitors found them at all times courteous and agreeable, although they invited their friends only in a quiet way to partake of their easy and elegant hospitality; and it was, after all, the pleasant place in the world to them, as well as the place of all others where they were seen to most advantage. Isabella assumed, more and more, entirely the charge and direction of the whole establishment, and the father grew still more indolent and indifferent to all that went on, both in the house and on the farm. Isabella consulted able advisers about the out-door business, and rented out portions of the land to great advantage, and to faithful judicious tenants, so that the whole place, in time, assumed once more the old air of prosperous ease and good management, and yielded an income that was quite sufficient to support   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       309 the family in a style befitting their position in life. The captain soon wearied of the quiet entertainments to which his daughters restricted themselves-as he was very glad, however, that they did-and spent his days in lounging at the street corners, on the hotel steps, or in the club-rooms; his evenings he gave no account of, except to plead "business engagements;" business seemed to make urgent, frequent, and mys- terious demands upon his time after night. And often when he returned home at a very late hour, there were symptoms of the same kind of vertigo which had given to his tread the unsteadiness that Charlie and Isabella had remarked one night some time back. Isabella was weary of watching and warning her father, and now that other money could be used for his support, she no longer felt the burden of her aunts' charge respecting their Bequest weighing upon her conscience. So in quiet, sad despair, she left him to go on his own way; clearing her hands of all future responsibility on his account. Whilst still preserving perfect decorum and propriety of manner toward him, the repulsion of her feelings seemed, if possible, to be increased in proportion, as, with all the strength of her powerful and intense nature, she twined her affections more and more closely around her brothers and sisters, into whose young and in-     310    .HEAVENWARD LED; OR, nocent lives he was bringing so much sorrow and evil, that the voice of justice and right in her heart cried out bitterly against him. She avoided his presence as much as possible, now, feeling sure that Nellie would never fail to be at hand to supply his wants, and to minister; as far as she could, to his comfort and happiness, and, therefore, no duty required her attendance upon him. And who can wonder that the whole human nature of even his own child rose up in strong resentful condemnation of such a man and such a father? In Nellie's heart, however, there was a voice ever pleading for him, louder than all human nature, or all justice and right could plead against him-the voice of Divine Love-which cries ever in unwearying, sorrowful, tender pity, Kill, destroy the hateful sin! but save! Oh, save the blood-bought sinner! God's image is still there; and you cannot, if you would, destroy the brotherhood which links man to man, for one common human nature is still yours. How then the fatherhood? With devoted love, his Christ-like little daughter still watched over him, cared, and prayed for him unceasingly. No impatience and no harsh- ness of his ever moved her from her steadfast guard: no injury, which he could ever do another, could com- pare to the evil she feared for him, and so for him   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       8" chiefly, she was grieved when he did wrong. Every night she waited patiently for his return, however late the hour, and never failed to kiss him tenderly, and whisper softly, "Good-night, my dear father. God bless and keep you safely." And in the morning there was ever the same warm smile to greet him, and to encourage the faintest better impulse which might be ready to spring up within him.' Faithfully she kept the vow she had registered on high, to let no earthly object divert her thoughts from this great purpose of her life, to save her father-to save him in spite of himself. He was the central object of her thoughts and of. her affections, always, and in all companies; and though, with human nature's strange contrariety, he grew, apparently, more indifferent towards her, and more grieved at Isabella's withdrawal from him. Yet with Nellie, who sought his happiness, not her own, this indifference passed unnoticed; and made not the least change in her feelings or her con- duct towards him. In the year thus passed she lost something, it is true, of her childlike freshness and freedom from care, and showed more than ever of the tender, thoughtful, loving woman, which, made her none the less lovable and attractive; and she was happy in making others happy and peaceful and trustful always, because she had learned to trust in     312.    HEA VEE N WARD LED; OR, no arm of flesh, but in the true and living God, who changeth not, and faileth never those who believe and hope in Him. Isabella knew nothing of that trustful peace of mind; and was often disquieted with doubts and per- plexities, arising, in most cases, from the over-critical scrutiny she was prone to make of herself and others. Her standard of moral excellence was very high, and she felt dissatisfied that she fell, as she thought, below it; nor could she be always sure that those she loved the best attained exactly to it. Her love for Nellie's pure and blameless character was as strong and deep as her abhorrence of all that was so opposite to it in their father's nature. Yet even with regard to Nellie there were times when she craved a fuller assurance that she was the spotless being she thought her, that she might be jus- tified fully in loving her as devotedly as she did. She was sorely perplexed sometimes by her efforts to reconcile her sister's love for their father, unabated, as it seemed, in spite of all his faults, which no one could now be more fully acquainted with than Nellie; and the love which she professed also for God's infinite holiness and his divinely righteous laws. This want of power to thoroughly understand her sister's motives and feelings, would, at intervals,   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       313 awaken for a while in 1he poor child's heart some of those unhappy doubts which she had experienced at the first evening of their reunion, which, however, were pretty sure to be ere long driven out by some sweet word or act of her unconscious little sister, to whom she would then return again with the renewed ardor and devotion of her almost idolatrous love, re- proaching herself severely for her ungenerous deyre- ciating doubts, as she then felt them to be. She wanted, though as yet she did not know it, a draught from the pure, exhaustless fountain of heavenly love, to give her the satisfying sweetness and fulness not to be found in the broken cisterns to which she was thus applying for comfort. The two sisters spoke but little together of their father, and never of his faults; Nellie, from a tender reverent wish to hide them if possible from even her own eyes. Isabella was restrained,' in the first place, by the promise she had made him, secondly by a tender regard for Nellie's feelings, and lastly by a general and vague sense of the propriety of silence on her part because he was her parent. Truly Isabella had no lackof justice in her com. plaints against him, and her sensitive spirit had many keen shairp trials still to encounter, as he result of 27     314    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, his past unscrupulous and selfish betrayal of her filial confidence. Gradually, as her name had grown more familiar in the community of --, repeated, as it so often was, with highest encomiums, the rumor had also crept out, stealthily at first and then more openly and authori- tatively, that, while abroad, she had been her father's constant companion at the gaming-table. Great in dignation and incredulity were expressed by most of those who knew her best; some, however, were read: to believe and to circulate the report, partly from envy and partly from a love of telling marvellous things and hearing everybody else's opinion upon their nar rations. None among her lady friends were more pei sistent in denying the possibility of such a thing, an refusing even to listen patiently to such " envious, mal cious, improbable slanders," as they indignantly style them, than Mrs. McPherson and her daughter Ros While among the gentlemen Lieutenant White an Colonel Fitzhugh were her staunchest defenders, eve Mr. Bernard uttered some of his most withering an biting denunciations against the founders of such "viperous fabrication." Isabella heard of these rumors through her kind] disposed but ill-judging friend, Miss Lucy Fit hugh, who repeated to her the stories, asking autho   TEIE TWO BEQUESTS.      315 ity to contradict the whole thing in her name. The poor child was completely overpowered by the shock which was thus given her. The fiery ordeal through which she had passed when abroad, on this account, was severe enough, and yet it seemed nothing in com- parison with the gruel suffering she endured at the thought of being so misunderstood and ill-spoken of among her own people, whose good opinion she was beginning to prize so highly. It wounded her most keenly to reflect upon the cruel unkindness of the in- dividual, whoever it might be, who had taken the pains apparently to dig up this buried root of bitterness. Isabella turned deadly pale, as she sat motionless for some time, listening to Miss Lucy's long narration. Only when the old lady had finished, and kept repeat- ing her demand for authority to contradict, in her name and on her word of honor, that she had ever played cards at all, her proud spirit suddenly aroused itself, and the poor little lady received the sting in- tended for those more malignant aspersers whose inju- rious reflections she had but injudiciously repeated. Rising, and standing with an air of majesty in front of the old lady, she looked coldly down upon her, as she said: "I am not aware, madam, of any possible claim you can have to the right of sitting in judgment upon     316    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, any course of action which I may have seen fit to adopt, but since you have kindly volunteered your services, allow me to say that I neither can, nor will, deny what you have heard." And, with a composed, quiet countenance, and stately step, she walked to the opposite end of the room, and taking her seat by Ellen and Rose, for they were spending a sociable evening together at the Thorpes', she talked as easily and naturally as if nothing so unpleasant had just occurred; but all the time how the sharp thorn was wounding her tender spirit! No wonder there was such a plaintive tone in her voice when she was next called upon to sing. In a very few moments after she had left Miss Fitz- hugh, her generous heart had smitten her with pity for the injudicious, but well-meaning and simple- minded old lady, whom she was conscious of having deeply wounded by her sharp rebuke. There she sat, as if petrified, poor soul, by the astonishment which Isabella's most unusual outhurst of indignation had occasioned. She recalled each word she had spoken, and tried to comprehend why it was that Isabella had been so angry with her, when she had expressly told her that she did not, and never would, believe a word against her, and wanted to act as her very best friend. And yet, to do the old lady /   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       317 justice, she was still more troubled on Isabella's ac- count than on her own, at the unsatisfactory result of her effort to serve her. For her young friend, so far from denying the charges against her, had, in effect, admitted them, for she had said: "I neither can nor will deny them." Before the company-which was small-dispersed for the night, Isabella went up to the old lady and said with gentle dignity: "Miss Fitzhugh, I spoke too proudly and hastily to you this evening; I hope you will excuse me. I am sure you meant all you said in kindness, but it was most unpleasant for me to hear it." The old lady would have overwhelmed her with ex- planations involving a repetition of nearly all she had told her before, but Isabella, with a kind, gracious smile and bow, said: "I perfectly understand, madam, your kind mo- tives, and thank you for wishing to serve me, but in this matter it is not possible to do so by discussing the subject with me. If, however, you will kindly refrain -from mentioning it again to either my sister or myself, I will be truly thankful to you." The old lady was appeased and gratified by the apology, and promised to be very prudent in talking to everybody. Isabella assured her that she really 27*     318  i  HEAVENWARD LED; OR, did not wish her to be prudent, but to talk as freely as she pleased; and then the old lady began to feel much puzzled to know how to understand Isabella at all, and thought she rather gloried in her former life than was ashamed of it, as she ought to be if all that people said was true. Her good feeling kept her, after this, from actually telling the things she had heard of Isabella; but when the question came up in her presence, she looked so mysterious and so "prudent," and ceased so suddenly to- express the earnest conviction she had formerly done that some- body or other was responsible for a slanderous asper- sion upon her favorite, that it made a great impres- sion, and went very far towards prejudicing people against Isabella's cause. When she told her brother, the old colonel, what had passed, and wondered that so young and refined a person should really see no harm in gambling, the old gentleman was very much excited, and said an- grily  "Don't tell me any such nonsense as that, Lucy. Confound it! You all have worried and fretted the poor child shamefully by your idle gossip and scandal. I don't wonder she was angry and scorned all expla- nations with you. Served you just right, and I ad- mire her all the more for showing that she's not afraid   THE TWO BEQUESTS.      319 of people's tongues. She's every inch a noble old Roman, in spirit, as her grandfather was before her. If, with such a father as she has, and with no one to warn her not to trust him, suppose she did go with him where he had no business to take her, and did play cards with him, who's to be blamed for that but her father, villain that he is? Father, indeed! I wonder how it can be possible that there is a drop of his blood in her veins. I tell you plainly, sister, that no one shall venture to speak one disrespectful word of that young lady in my presence. I won't have it!" From that day the chivalrous old soldier never expressed the slightest preference for Nellie over Isa- bella in any respect, but was most courtly, deferential, and admiring whenever he spoke of or to her; and so also was Lieutenant White. The two gentlemen lost no opportunity of paying her attention and trying to amuse and divert her mind. Isabella understood their kind motive in all this, and was deeply touched by it, especially so by the young lieutenant's generosity, after, too, the wound which she had been obliged to inflict but recently upon his feelings by rejecting his suit. Indeed, he was fully proved now to be a man of true nobility of character, for while he was doing his very utmost to make her happy again, and took especial care to show     320    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, more openly than ever his devoted love and admiring respect, particularly amongst those who had been most ready to censure her, he did it all most delicately, making her realize that he was not actuated by the. hope of becoming a more acceptable lover, but from feelings of pure friendship and regard. He told Rose McPherson and Colonel Fitzhugh that the dream of his life was now ended, for he should never love an- other woman after having loved her. But though his suit had been unsuccessful, he still was proud of having made such a choice. The whole Blaekstone family, too, were as kind and considerately tender of their young friend's feel- ings in this hard trial as they could possibly be; and though they made no allusion to the subject, Isabella knew that they had heard it by their increased affection and kindness. They peremptorily checked all gossip about her in their presence, and the good old doctor, in his capacity of pastor and guardian to the mother- less child, took the most unwearied pains in tracing up the story to its original source, and in then sifting out all the exaggerations and additions which it had afterwards received, and came to just the same con- clusion on the subject that Colonel Fitzhugh had done. It was traced to a wealthy merchant and his wife-vulgar, showy, talking people, who had spent a   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       321 good deal of time on the continent, especially in Ger- many, where they were reported not to have kept the best society themselves. However that might have been,' they had picked up the most highly-colored Version of Isabella's story as it had circulated amongst their set of acquaintances; to this they had made their own additions., By the vigorous and faithful efforts of her kind friends, aided no little by her own high character and the dignified self-respect she exhibited throughout the whole affair, it ere long died away. But Isabella did not realize this, and the smart of the wound was felt long after those who had inflicted it had ceased at all to think about it. It seemed unaccountably strange and hard to her that she should have to bear such a severe trial, when, ever since her arrival at home, she had shrunk with almost nervous timidity from every- thing which seemed calculated to make her conspi- cuous.  To her delicate feminine feelings the thought of notoriety of any kind had been really painful. In her anguish of spirit at finding that in spite of all she could do, her name was again before the public as the theme of slanderous tongues, Isabella imme- diately determined that it would be proper to give up her place in the choirl and wrote a note to that effect to the Doctor. For with respect to sacred matters she /" X     322    HEAVEN'WARD LED; OR, was most sensitivtly alive to the fear of making, or seeming to make, false pretences and hollow profes- sions, and of bringing disgrace or ill repute upon the church. Dr. Blackstone, however, would not listen for a moment to her resigning, and urged her so ear- nestly to gratify him by remaining in- her place, that she could not refuse him, and consented to yield to his judgment in the matter. That was the only out- ward demonstration she ever made after her interview with Miss Fitzhugh of having heard of the affair at all. About going into society, she at once deter- mined that, however much she might long for seclu- sion, it would be unwise to indulge her inclinations at this time particularly, and resolved to pursue exactly the course of life which Nellie and herself had pre- viously marked out, and to go into company neither more nor less than she had before done. Further than, perhaps, a little more of stateliness in her car- riage, there was not the slightest external change; but, oh! what a cold, dull sense of painful distrust of the world she had; what a heart-sick, weary longing at times to leave it, and be at rest! and what bitter, bitter reflections upon her father were ever coming up in her mind! With her usual consideration for them, and dislike to grieve anld pain them, she would not tell either Ellen or Charlie anything of her trouble.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       323 She knew that Nellie would have felt for her more keenly, if that were possible, than she herself, and there were times when her heart almost ached for her gentle sister's sympathy. Dr. Blackstone watched her all this while with a fatherly love and interest in her spiritual welfare and peace. He saw that her mind was often deeply im- pressed by religious truth, and that her life was re- gulated by a scrupulous regard to the dictates of her conscience, and that she attained to a standard of purity which few young professors of religion could emulate; and he made many efforts to induce her to give him her entire confidence, and open her heart freely to him about whatever the drawhack might be which kept her standing, as it were, upon the threshold, unable to enter by the Living Door into the blessed fold. But though she listened to him always with attentive respect, and thanked him for his kindness, her lips still remained sealed, touching her own inner life. Charlie, too, wrote frequently to her, and begged her to try to realize the freeness of the Great Gift, to accept it, and to believe herself to be, what in truth she was, God's own beloved child: redeemed, adopted, sanctified, all through the atoning blood of the dear Redeemer. He had noticed an unusually sad tone, which, unconsciously to herself,     324    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, pervaded her letters at this time, and with more tender urgency than ever he tried to press these cheering considerations upon her mind. In reply she thanked him, as she did Dr. Blackstone, and said she hoped some day they would be able more fully to understand each other. To Nellie, whose tender so- licitude on her account was second only to what she felt for their father, she was equally reserved, re- sponding to her persuasions only with affectionate, sometimes laughing and sometimes tearful, caresses. Her inner life was a stormy one, compared to that of the quiet, trusting Nellie, and it was not given her so soon to moor her little tempest-tossed bark within the safe and peaceful haven. To her own exalted standard of Christian perfection and consistency she had not attained, and she could not understand how, without attaining to it, she might still freely come to the merciful Saviour and trust him for all, even for that very sanctifying grace of which she felt so pain- fully her need, and of which the sense of her defi- ciency was keeping her thus at a distance from him, and in doubt of that love which was only awaiting her acceptance of it. The two sisters had often visited together their young friend Mark Wilson, and helped him   to pass patiently through many a dark and wearisome               .             TIE TWO BEQUESTS.       325 hour. He had been carried also to the Park, to spend many a spring and summer day. Patrick-the widowed Irishman who had fled so pre- cipitately from the fear of his wife's ghost to the more cheering society of the buxom Biddy-used to roll the wheel-chair with greatest caution to prevent giv- ing a jar to the "poor, suffering body," while Nellie and Isabella, and sometimes Florence, walked beside and talked, or sang, or kept still, just as the nerves and the whims of the poor boy demanded. Rosa and George would be there too; Rosa gathering flowers, and weaving them into garlands to make sister Nellie and sister Issy look like May queens; George would bring fruits and berries for the rest, or get some one to row Rosa and himself in a little skiff up and down the shallow lake, making his great Newfoundland dog swim alongside of them and fetch what they threw into the water after him. What days they were to poor Mark! and how often he thought of them after- wards, in the long winter nights, as he lay in sleep- less restlessness upon his bed, longing for spring and summer to return, and bring back his much-enjoyed visits to the country! Nelhe had taken him' with her to see Mother Fant, and he did not listen in vain to her history of Christ 28     326     HEAVNAT WAEARD LED; OR, the Saviour's love to her, and his tender care and faithful succor. Laying aside his former reliance upon his brilliant talents and rare intellectual gifts, he sat humbly at the feet of this lowly disciple, and learned from her the lesson which human wisdom cannot teach: to be- lieve in the Lord Jesus Christ with all his heart, and to yield himself submissively into his hands; and wait for him, in his own good time, to release him from his pain, and take him to that home where the love of God--the perfect, unchanging, infinite love of God- would be his portion for ever and ever. Sometimes, when alone, he might now be heard whispering to him- self, if the old darkness threatened to come back upon his spirit, scraps of a little hymn which Nelhe had sung for him: "The entanglement which restless thought, Mistrust, and idle reasoning, move, Are thus unravelled and unwrought- For-God is love. "Yes, God is love--a thought like this Can every gloomy thought remove, And turn all tears, all woes to bliss- For God is love." In his deep gratitude to "Mother Fant," for the great spiritual riches she had been the means of his   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       327 receiving, he ministered, through Nellie's hands, most bountifully to all her temporal wants. With her pla- cid, thankful smile, the old woman said to him, as she acknowledged his kindness: "Why, young master, you make me feel as rich as a queen, for now I can deal my bread to the hungry, too; and what a pleasure 'tis, to be sure, to do it! God bless you, sir, and make you to increase more and more in the knowledge of His will, and to abound in all good works!" Nothing now seemed to give Mark so much plea- sure as he found in trying to do good in some small way, within his means. No great things were required at his hands, but he was permitted and enabled to manifest, by many little patient acts of self-denial or endurance, that he had indeed been grafted into the true and living vine, and was bearing in his life the fruits by which he should be known as one of its branches. During the year that passed after Rose McPher- eon's party, the principal changes that took place amongst the community were towards the close of the year. Rose herself, in the first place, was married to Mr. George Stanley, a promising young lawyer; Nel- lie and Isabella acting as bridesmaids on the occasion, with Dr. William Blackstone and the newly promoted     328    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, Captain White as groomsmen; and, in the second place, to the astonishment of almost every man, wo- man and child in - , the marriage of Mr. Charles Bernard to Miss Ella Gordon-his long wooed and most uncertain lady-love-appeared one day in the morning's paper, as having occurred the day previous. The happy young things were actually married and off on their bridal tour before a breath of such an in- tention's being harbored in their guileless bosoms had transpired among their most intimate friends. Mr. Bernard's final courtship and the coup-de-main by which he had at last succeeded in gaining posses- sion of the long-coveted prize became the general topic of conversation; various most amusing versions being given; the one, however, which received the most credence was Captain White's account, which was, that Mr. Bernard, having recently perceived signs of relenting again, for only about the twentieth time, on the part of his fair one, had persisted for several weeks in acting the role of perfect noncha- lance and indifference towards her; sometimes even hinting in her presence that he thought it advisable for men and women who had reached their time of life without marrying, to make up their minds to die single; and that he had long ago resigned himself to his fate, and was going to get little Miss Nellie Ash-               Fig   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       329 ton to try to make a good Christian of him, spend his last years in an edifying manner, and finally make his exit from the stage of life in the odor of sanctity, which qhe never could have done if he had married one of your charming fascinating women, who never do grow old or reasonable, but go on frittering their lives away and befooling everybody that trusts them. By his judicious management he had brought her to terms as aforesaid. Dr. William Blackstone succeeded very finely this year in his profession, set up a buggy by the end of it, and looked so comfortable and well-to-do that his friends very often asked him when he intended to pre- sent them to Mrs. B. jr.? He told them, laughing in his easy, jovial way, that he would do so with great pleasure as soon as he could induce her to have him. He and Nellie were very often together, and seemed, both of them, very happy in each other's company; he visited her poor people most kindly for her, and listened to all her stories of their sufferings with attentive interest and sympathy, and was a very great help and comfort to her by his kind, judicious endeavors to assist her in carrying out all her plans of benevolent usefulness. It was nearly dusk one evening when Nellie chanced to be returning from a long walk just as he was driv- 28*     330    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, ing out to The Park. He overtook her, and jumping from his buggy, begged her to let him drive her home, as it was getting too late for her to walk by herself. She accepted the invitation, and he felt very much delighted as he took his seat by her side, for it seemed just the thing he should most have wished. He was, in truth, on his way to see her on especially interest- ing business, which could only be mentioned when they were alone together, and fate had most pro- pitiously offered him such an excellent opportunity. His happiness, however, seemed to make him silent and absent-minded, for he drove slowly along the road, saying very little himself, and by no means hearing all that she said. In fact, he was never a man to make many professions or talk much about his feelings, and began to realize rather painfully the dif- ficulty he should find in telling his little sweetheart by-and-by all the many things that his heart longed to express to her. When they reached the door at Ashton Park he helped her out of the buggy with the utmost gentle- ness and care, and with a feeling of trembling agita- tion held for a moment her little hand in his. She had begun to ascend the steps, when he exclaimed rather abruptly: "Miss Nellie, don't go in yet, please!" Then smiling at his own awkwardness, he   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       331 added softly: "It is so lovely out of doors this even- ing; too lovely to leave so soon! Won't you take a little walk with me down by the lake-shore? I have something very especial to say before we part to-night." Perhaps Nellie wondered why he had not told her already as they rode along together; but if she did wonder she did not say so, but only blushed deeply as she turned to accompany him; and slowly and linger- ingly they walked together by the side of the clear, pebbly stream--Nellie with her head bent very low, and the young doctor trying to catch a view of her sweet, modest, half-averted face. They talked for some time about their past lives, and of how long they had known each other, and how well; the doctor reminding her of the days when he used to call her familiarly by her name, and tell long and wonderful stories to Florence and herself. Then he began the story of his love, telling how long and how tenderly he had watched and loved her, and hoped that one day he might win her for his own. Ever since she was a little child, indeed, he said she had been the lode-star of his fondest hopes and wishes, and the strongest incentive with him to do right and to achieve success in his professional career. That he had waited only until he had done this to some degree,     332    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, to offer her his heart's best affections, and all that he could ever do to make her happy. And told her what soft, beautiful pictures his fancy had sometimes painted of the dear little home he should have some day if she would consent to gladden and brighten it by her sweet presence. He said many warm and tender words to her, over and over again, about the love and devotion and re- verence he felt for her, and his own happiness if she would promise him her love in return; and spoke now so rapidly and earnestly that it would not have been easy for any one to realize the difficulty he had felt in beginning. To all this Nellie only answered in a low, soft voice:  "Ithank you, Dr. Blackstone." "Is that all, Miss Nellie? Can you give me only thanks in return for my heart's supreme devoted love during all these long years? Are you going to send me back to my home with this sweet, long-cherished hope and dream of my life entirely blighted'? How sweet that hope has been to me I can never tell you; I could never let it go; nor can I now, until you tell me that I must. Won't you even try to love me, Miss Nellie? Look at me once, and promise me you will; and I will try so hard to be worthy of you, to be all   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       333 that you can wish; and you can help me so much by your own sweet, holy life." Nellie looked up at him with her face covered with burning blushes, and tears were in her soft, earnest eyes as she said: "I do love you, Dr. Blackstone, and should love to try to make you glad and happy all your life long, and your little home ever bright and sunny, as well as to have you to help and counsel me, and make me happy with your love. But I must not think of pleasing myself first, I am almost sure my father will object to my' marriage, and I have solemnly pledged myself to make him and his spiritual welfare and happiness the first great object of my life; and so you see I am not free to choose my own way, or to bestow myself upon another." She tried to smile as she said these last words. The young doctor was delighted, and looked as if he was really the happiest man in the world; and begged her to let him refer the matter to her father, and try to gain his consent; promising never to inter- fere with any duty she owed him, but to help her in this as well as in all other things to the utmost of his power. Nellie answered quietly: "Yes, of course we must tell him. It is only right     834    H EA VENWARD LED; OR, he should know what has passed between us. But I have promised no engagement, doctor, remember. I cannot leave him, indeed I cannot, even if he were willing-which he will never be; and it would be most unfair to let you bind yourself by any engagement for a vague, indefinite future. We will continue to love each other as the warmest and truest of friends, there- fore; and, by-and-by, when you shall have found another whom you can love, and who not only loves you in return, but ist free to follow the voice of her heart, I shall try to rejoice with you, and will love her dearly for your sake." In spite of herself her voice had a sad and trem- bling tone in it as she finished saying this. The doctor declared vehemently that he should not think of giving her up; that he would do his very best to win her father's consent; and even try to arrange it so that her marriage should not separate her from him. But if he must wait, he would willingly wait any length of time with the hope of having her at last, rather than give her up for any other woman on earth. And so it was settled. They were engaged; but, as Nellie well knew, with no prospect of anything further for many years., Yet she was very, very happy; and the young doctor was, at the very least, a thousand times more so . .    THE TWO BEQUESTS.       335 They stayed lingering by the water-side, talking together until it was quite dark; and then Nelhe was very much surprised to find how late it. was, and hur- ried back to the house. George and Rosa met the happy, conscious-looking pair in the hall, and were full of eager questions as to where they had been and what doing all that time, for George had had his eye on the horse and buggy almost ever since it was left standing at the door. Nellie ran hastily up stairs to take off her bonnet, and Dr. Blackstone went into the parlor with Rosa -and George. Captain Ashton, who was sitting in the room when they' entered, gave the doctor a cold ungracious welcome, and looked suspiciously at him as he en- quired of the children where their "sister Ellen" was. He had heard them talking in the hall, and had noticed the buggy standing before the door. We have before described how he had allowed all his fears to be lulled to rest. Now he seemed to imagine directly that he had been in some way deceived, and taken at a disadvantage after being first thrown off his guard. The position in which the doctor found himself placed, by his ungracious manner towards him, was so awkward and disagreeable that he determined to put an end to it by coming at once to an open     336    HEAVENrWARD LED; OR, explanation with him. He therefore asked George and Rosa in a whisper to leave the room a little while, and see that his horse did no damage, while he talked on business with their father. The captain listened grimly to his story, and coldly answered that his daughters were neither of them old enough to marry, and that he thought it hardly fair to have persuaded Nellie to give him her consent without first ascertaining his views on the subject- which were, he emphatically added, entirely opposed to the whole thing--and, therefore, he should certainly withhold his consent. In a dignified manner, yet warmly and eloquently, the young doctor pleaded his cause, showed how fair his prospects were, and did and said everything that a man could do, with proper regard to his own self-respect, to remove every objec- tion that was made or could be anticipated. At length he succeeded so far as to induce Captain Ashton to say that he did not object to him individu- all[, and that if they were willing to wait for their marriage until the few remaining years of his life were ended, he had no objection to their being en- gaged; though it did seem unreasonable for any one to be trying to take his daughters from him in his old age, or to be making them wish for his death. And then the doctor was relieved and much en-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       337 couraged at gaining so much. He wanted ,v tell Nellie about it, and see what she would say now. And so he stayed on, waiting for her to come down, in spite of her father's continued coldness and restraint. It was a most pleasant relief to him when, presently, Isabella came into the room, bringing a piece of new music which she had intended to try on the piano. She was much surprised at seeing her father there, which was unusual at that hour-indeed, he seldom sat with his family at all now, except at table. Nellie hunted him up every evening, in his own sitting-room or wherever he might be, and spent as many hours as he would allow, in trying to 'amuse and entertain him. Isabella looked from one gentleman to the other to see what could have brought them thus together in a private interview; thinking she might be in thle way she was about to leave again, when she caught a look in the doctor's face, as if he wanted her so much to stay. Then quickly penetrating to some extent the position of affairs between them, she changed her mind, and invited him to listen to the music she had brought, and tell her what he thought of it. There was a radiant glow in Nellie's tranquil face when she came down, and the delicate shell-like pink in her cheeks was deepened into a rosy blush, which 29       Y      338    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, spoke eloquently of the joyous hopes which were gladdening her anticipations of the future. A few whispered words between the doctor and herself heightened very much this rosy tint, and even the cold dark shadow thrown from the gloomy figure of the father as he sat silent in the chimney corner, could not very materially mar this first joy in the hearts of the two young lovers.  When Doctor Blackstone had left, Captain Ashton turned to Nellie, with a look of complaint in his face, and said in a bitter tone: "And so this is the end of all your wearisome professions of love to me, and of dutiful regard to my wishes! You have gone, without asking my con- sent or advice, and promised to marry that young man!"Isabella started at this abrupt and indelicate announcement of her sister's cherished secret, and fixing first, a look of grave serious displeasure upon him, motioned to the children to retire, and then asked Nellie in a soft kind voice: "Shall I leave the room, little sister?" she hoped Nellie would say no, for she always wanted to be at hand to help her when their father was cross and tyrannical in his manner. Nellie's eyes were filled with tears, but she smiled brightly through them at Iabella when she met her   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       339 look of yearning sympathy. "No, Issy Jear," she answered fondly. "Father knows I have no secrets from you." Then she drew near her father, and taking in her own the long sallow hand, she shook ler head with a look of arch playful reproof, and aid: "Those were naughty little words just now, dear ther. You know that I have never made profes- ions of love to you, The dear, deeply rooted love hich our Heavenly Father put in my heart for you -my now only earthly parent--is part of my nature, think, and will only perish with my heart itself. I ve not promised to marry without your consent; on e contrary, I have said that I never, never could nsent to leave you as long as you would like me to ly with you." Umph! I don't know what it all means, but that Ung fellow, sly, unprincipled dog that he is, has iaved most unhandsomely in making love to you at ; and then comes telling me a long, sickening love- ry, ending with the impudent declaration that you iprocate his feelings, and wish to marry him. And lust confess, you looked very much as if it might all true, when you came into the room and after- ds sat talking to him all the time he was here!" [elhe had laid his hand gently down at the first     340    HFLAVEYWARD LED; OR, word of disrespectful mention of Dr. Blackst ne, and with a grave quiet face she met his restless angry glarces as he proceeded to the end of his rejoinder. Then she said with gentle dignity: "Father, even my love for you, to which I am willing to make the greatest sacrifice that any human heart can make, does not require that I should listen to one unkind or disrespectful word in connection with Dr. Blackstone's name, to whom I have indeed most fully given my heart with its deepest fondest love; his high and noble character as a Christian and a gentleman, incapable of any mean degrading act, having first won my esteem and veneration. Had he been such a man as you describe, I could never have respected, much less have loved him in the way I do. We have known each other these many years, too, so that our attachment is no new or recent thing, and I am most thankful that his love and trust are both so strong, that he is willing to wait indefinitely even for our marriage, for I hardly think I could live without his love, now that I know what it is to feel fully as- sured that it is wholly mine. We love each other, remember, dear father, as you yourself once loved; but we will patiently wait until you shall be quite willing for our marriage to take place. Something in my heart is very hopeful about it all; and it /       I   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       341 makes me so very happy. You know it does, do you not, dear father? So lay your hand upon my head and bless me, and rejoice With me. Ah! I know you can't help it, dear father!"Her sweet, pure brow and cheek were in: close contact now with his time- worn, passion-lined face, as she strove to coax a smile around his lips, and laid his hand herself upon her head. "There, there, don't talk any more about it. I told the young man I should never consent, but if he chose to wait until my time here is out, he could, that 's all. I dare say you 'll both be wishing me out of the way all the time." "Oh, my father, how could such a thought ever cross our minds? It is a sacred pleasure to love and cheer you, and to care for you at all times, and just as long as you wish me to remain devoted ex- elusively to you, I will most cheerfully do so, and Dr, Blackstone will never wish to interfere with my duty. Ie would rather try to help me in it, and, perhaps, ome day you will learn to esteem and regard him so ighly as to be willing to adopt him as your own son. row, kiss me, father, to show that you perfectly un- erstand it all, and are pleased to see me so happy, nd feeling'so, so rich." He kissed her in his cold anner, bade both his daughters good-night, and left 29 "     342    HEAV ENWRARD LED; OR, the room. Then Isabella, who had been watching every look, and listening to every word that passed, with the most intense breathless interest, took Nellie in her arms and pressed her closely to her heart, kissing her again and again, and said, "My own dear, brave, noble, martyr-like-little sister! How few there are like you in all this world! But you don't expect me to rejoice with you that any one has stolen away your heart-do you?" "Not exactly," answered Nellie, blushing and laughing, "but that I have gained such a treasure in exchange for mine. I know you like Dr. Blackstone, Issy--don't you?" "Very much, Nellie, very much, indeed. I like his genial humor, and his frank, straightforward character, of all things. But, Nell darling, I can hardly imagine a man worthy of you. Once in my life only have I had a glimpse of such an one. It was but a glimpse, however, and no second one shall I ever have; and there are very few such men in the world as Dr. William Blackstone; so if you must give yourself away to somebody, I shall have to let him have you, and be glad and thankful that he is so nearly all that I could ask." ' Ah, ha! Issy, you have your beau ideal, then, it seems!" said Nellie, archly.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.      343 "I hardly know whether you could call it that ex- actly. It is, perhaps, more properly a criterion by which I judge of manly beauty and excellence of character, not due to my fancy at all, though so rarely reached, that it might well be considered only an ideal standard. It has been adopted, however, from real life, and I am so glad that I have it now in my mind," answered Isabella, gravely and thought- fully. Nellie looked a little disappointed, and a little at a loss to understand Isabella's vague-sounding words, as she said: "But, Issy, you don't know my young doctor yet as, well as I do. You'd think him better than any- body else, if you did, I am sure." Isabella laughed gaily and replied: "I don't know him as well, certainly, Nell, as you do, nor, happily for all parties, do I love him quite so much; but my opinion of him is very high, and my feelings for him very cordial and kind; and as it would hardly do for me, too, to think him better than any body else, you must be satisfied with that, little sister." And the two sisters sat engaged with their needles, chatting briskly and happily together until bed time.     844    HEA VENWARD LED; OR, CHAPTER TENTH. AN UNEXPECTED MEETING. HE days, weeks and months, as they went marching 'by in stately solemn procession to the great tomb of the Past, through the course of the year which followed that beau-' tiful autumnal evening, when sweet Nellie Ashton had accepted young Dr. William's devoted love, and been made to feel "so, so rich" by its possession, had brought with them many trials, harder to bear than any in her past experience of life; but very much too that was new also in its deep, pure joyfulness, to counterbalance the greater evil. Her father's illnesses had been much more frequent and violent, and he had grown still more peevish and difficult to please in his sickness, as well as suspicious of Nellie and the doctor at all times. Nellie's strength and patience had both been heavily taxed by his numerous and selfish requirements. Many a night of weary watching had she spent by his bedside, only to be accused, as it often happened, in the morning, of wishing him dead that she might   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       345 marry her lover; and many a sad hour had she sat waiting till past midnight for his return home, when he was well enough to leave the house in the evening; and often in consequence been sternly rebuked for her meddlesome prying. Still, with anguish of spirit, she thought only of that poor lost soul to which she clung with an almost deathly grasp, defying, as it were, the very powers of darkness to wrest it from her hold. She could not, she would not, let them pluck away this soul, she so agonizingly, yet tenderly, loved and prayed for. She had God's own sure word of promise, and to that she would hold, and never, never give up her firm and steadfast trust in him. The young doctor, as he watched her with deepen- ing love and pity, felt that however dark the present hour might seem, there mustyet be light in store for her; that the day must surely come when love so pure and saintly, and faith so strong and steadfast, should prevail. He did all he could, by his kind, assiduous attentions, to her parent, as well as to herself, to lighten her heavy burden of care; and she found much support and comfort in his loving heart, with its warm, full sympathy; and was much aided, in her father's sicknesses, by his manly vigorous strength, and medical skill, and careful nursing. Their mutual love and respect for each other was daily increasing,     846     HEA VENWARD LED; OR, while she herself grew yet more white and spotless, more full of Christ-like patient, gentle meekness and love, from the purifying fires through which she passed. "And angels bent their eyes upon her goings, To guard her from annoy; Heaven filled her quiet heart with overflowings Of calm celestial joy. "The Saviour loved her, for she wore the vesture With which he walked on earth; And through her child-like glance and step and gesture, He marked her heavenly birth." Besides these blessed heavenly witnesses, the eyes of many of her fellow mortals were watching her life of simple patient love, and upon many a heart was her silent noiseless example exercising a mighty influ- ence, of which she was wholly unaware. Doubtless there were numberless surprises in store for her, on that great day when the Discerner and Revealer shows to each man his life's great work, and the fruits which it has borne. Mr. Bernard, having now settled down with his wife into a model of domestic propriety, became a regular attendant at church, cultivated Nellie's society, and actually occasionally aided her in some of her benevo- i    THE TWO BEQUESTS.       847 lent schemes, and always spoke in exalted terms of her piety. He dropped, in great measure, his old caustic, bitter way of criticising others; but revenged himself for his general forbearance whenever an op- portunity offered for dealing a hard blow at his old acquaintance, Captain Ashton; finding, on such occa- sions, more sympathizing auditors in Captain White and Colonel Fitzhugh, than even in the now admiring and placid Mrs. Ella Gordon Bernard. Meeting his two friends one evening on the street, just after Cap- tain Ashton had passed him, he surprised them by exclaiming: "What wonderful things these proverbs are! And, in reply to a look of inquiry in both their faces, proceeded to explain himself:' "They suit every occasion, gentlemen; and explain ]l the mysteries of life. I've actually found one to suit that respectable party which passed just now. I have been cogitating for months, and addling my brains almost, to find out how it is that such a father has such children as his, and such children such a father as he is, and here I 've just picked up an old Eastern proverb that rather reconciles me to the jour- ney he is taking downwards: 'Blessed are those children whose fathers go to the Evil One,' it says; and so I am inclined to give Dick a push, and send him     348    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, on the faster, so that the blessing he's been earning for his children may come all the speedier." "I don't know that you need meddle with Richard on that account, for it seems to me as if the blessing had long since come to his children," answered the Colonel. "Yes, as far as the blessing of goodness is con- cerned, I really think they have their full share. But he must be a great cross to them. It positively makes my hard heart ache when I think of "Gracey," as I always have called Miss Nellie, for I like that name for her, and wish there was more of the same sort of grace in the world. I don't believe in your rude, crabbed Christians-I believe in the kind who are pitiful and courteous as she is. Sydney Smith taught the right kind of Christian doctrine-nobody could be a Christian under his teaching without being a lady or a gentleman in the highest sense -of the word; and little Gracey will always be my model Christian woman, because she is such a perfect lady with her religion. In her society I actually begin to think in good earnest of becoming a devout Christian myself. You can always judge well of a man's character by the people he admires; and here is Ella, who is a splendid old girl, and this little gentle good thing, who both speak admirably for me." i   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       849 The colonel and Captain White exchanged smiles of amused meaning, and thought their own thoughts about the difference between the paragons, but said nothing on that subject to Mr. Bernard. During the past year Isabella had thought more deeply and anxiously than ever before upon the sub- ject of religion, and was gaining a clearer and deeper insight into the spirituality of the gospel require- ments, and feeling herself at a great distance from its standard of holiness: she was no longer able to take any comfort in the thought of her own moral recti- tude, and her abhorrence of all that was mean, debas- ing, and false. She studied Nellie as closely as ever, and longed for her sweet humility and gentle patience. Sometimes her heart was so disquieted that she was on the eve of speaking freely of her doubts and fears and unavailing efforts to her sister, or to Dr. Black- stone; but when the time came for her to do so, dis- trust of her own professions and feelings, or some- thing else, seemed to hold her back and make it impossible. She wrote, however, more fully and freely of herself to Charlie, and waited impatiently for his replies and better still for his return home. He had been gone now two years, and his life had been as full both of adventure and of interesting and useful experience as he could have desired. Nor had 30     350    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, he failed to keep the promise he made to himself to make the most of every opportunity for improvement, and for acquiring useful knowledge of every kind. He had his trials, at first, in being thrown into inti- mate association with rough men, who jeered at his refinement, and at his strict exactitude in the dis- charge of his religious duties; his rigid adherence to regular habits of private devotion, and the many other minor marks which he bore about him as the sign of his discipleship. But his brave manly stead- fastness gradually won, not respect alone, but also admiration, confidence, and regard. And there came at length a time when he was fully tested, and so nobly bore the test, and proved the reality of all his high professions, that he became greatly endeared to the whole company. In consequence of the ship's being detained for some time on a very unhealthy coast, a deadly epi- demic broke out among the crew, and all on board suffered more or less. And now day and night was the young Christian soldier at his post by the sick and dying, heedless of all fear of contagion, or all regard to his own safety or comfort. He labored indefati: gably, ministering to the souls as well as the bodies of the sufferers, denying himself every luxury of food or bedding that he might have more comforts for the   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       351 needy; and often after a fatiguing night of watching, he would take in the day, for hours together, the post of duty appointed to some recent convalescent, or to some poor fellow who was struggling against the approaches of disease, not wanting to lie by when hands were short, but who yet looked unfit for the laborious task. At last he himself was taken sick; the proud handsome manly form was laid prostrate with the fever in its most violent form, and then the whole crew and company were drawn closely together as around one common centre, by their anxious fear and sorrow for him. His dear friend, Jack Hight, kept ever near him, and had many touching proofs to record for the loving sisters, and even still dearer one at home, of the devoted affection manifested for him, and the heartfelt joy and gratitude with which the news of his convalescence was received by all his comrades, especially by the poor honest grateful sailors, who had never experienced such devoted care and brotherly love before. After his recovery, as long as he remained among them, there was a soft reverent love mingled with the high respect and regard which he had before inspired, and the men were almost as careful to avoid shocking his pure refined sentiments by coarse and profane jests, as if he had been a young innocent girl in their midst. +     352    HEA ENYWARD LED; OR, Isabella urged him so strongly, after his illness, to return immediately home, and made such fair repre- sentations of the condition of pecuniary matters, that, although he had entirely recovered, it was difficult to resist her affectionate entreaties, aided so powerfully as they were, too, by the importunate appeals of his own heart; and as no duty required him to remain longer, he gladly resolved to shorten the intended time of absence, and return home to commence his course of theological study with as little delay as pos- sible. And with what a burst of delight this intelli- gence was received by those who loved him so de- votedly, the reader will perhaps readily imagine. It must be some months yet, however, before he could possibly reach home. Still, Florence could not help hoping for him sooner, and would start up with a flushed, joyful, expectant look at every unexpected sound; or sometimes as she sat in her father's study window, her large soft blue eyes would peer up and down the streets, or even round the corners, eagerly scrutinizing every passing face and form. But if she chanced to find herself observed in tl is useless lookout for what could not possibly come to pass, her whole face and neck would be suffused, and she would run hastily- away to avoid being questioned and laughed at.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       353 The health of the good old pastor had been failing for some time, and at last it was found necessary that he should have entire rest for some months, and after that a permanent assistant. Mr. Henry Halyburton, who was just to be ordained at the Theological Semi- nary, was recommended very highly to the vestry as in every respect well fitted for the place. He was a cousin of young George Stanley, whom Rose McPher- son had married; and Mr. Stanley described him in glowing colors as a man of brilliant talents and rare attainments, who had renounced a flourishing and prosperous practice at the bar for the ministry, three years since, and had thereby forfeited the favor and the fortune of a wealthy old bachelor uncle who was to have made him his heir. In character he repre- sented him as combining the knightly courtesy and chivalry of the olden time with the most earnest and devoted piety, and to be in all respects an accom- plished and thorough Christian gentleman, who could not fail to please the most fastidious of the congrega- I tion, as well as to win the love of the plainer sort. Accordingly, Mr. Halyburton was invited to visit the parish, and see for himself the requirements of the place. He came and spent two weeks at the Rectory, making a very pleasing impression by his unassuming modesty, yet graceful ease and cordiality of manner, 30*       z     354    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, in private intercourse; while his appearance in public was equally successful. The manner in which he read the service was pronounced beautiful and impressive, and the lec- tures which he delivered for the Young Men's Chris- tian Association drew crowded audiences, and were highly praised and complimented in all the daily pa- pers. In the first place, the taste and tact displayed in the selection of his subject, and his graceful, happy mode of discussing it, were commented upon at great length, and much also was said of the marvellous voice of the speaker. Full of natural sweetness and power, and brought to perfection by a thorough course of elocutionary training, it charmed the ear like a delicious strain of rich melody, and gave a won- drously persuasive effect to each sentence as he uttered it, bringing out, as it seemed, new meaning from the simplest language, and thrilling and moving at the same time his audience as by a sort of magnetic sym- pathy. Thus were his qualifications as an orator described in the public papers, and their verdict was strongly maintained and frequently repeated in pri- vate circles. Nor were any of his audience more en- thusiastic in their expressions of gratification and pleasure at ithe intellectual entertainment they had enjoyed than Nellie and Dr. William Blackstone.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.        55 All these complimentary accounts of the future assistant minister excited a great interest and cu- riosity about him in Isabella's mind. She had suffered from slight indisposition during his stay in the city, and by that means had been prevented from hearing or seeing him. As she listened to the high enco- miums passed upon his voice, she was forcibly re- minded of that one which had so impressed her by its sweetness and richness, on a certain morning at Baden-Baden, now almost four years since, but still so well remembered that she could recall each soft and round inflection as she mentally repeated to herself the little verse which ever since she had treasured in her heart in remembrance of that day. She began to wonder afresh what had become of those two English travellers; and thought with sad regretfulness of the almost inevitable certainty that she must wait to meet again and recognise and thank her generous defender and unconscious benefactor, until that great day of solemn account and vindication of which he had spoken. I do not, however, know how she had dis- covered that the travellers were English, but presume she had satisfied herself by making secret inquiries on the subject, a mode of proceeding so totally unlike her usual conduct as to show how deep an impression had been made upon her feelings by what she had     356    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, seen and heard on that memorable occasion. She felt very sure that the young gentleman of whom she now heard such glowing descriptions could in no respect compare with the original after which her ideal stand- ard had been formed, and was jealously opposed also to the idea of his eclipsing in popularity, as there seemed a prospect of his doing, their dear friend and pastor, Dr. Blackstone-merely, as she said, because he. was a young man of showy manners and accom- plishments. Yet she was most curious to see the object of so much praise and admiration, if only to compare him with what Nelhe had called her " beau ideal," but which she had modestly disclaimed the ability to conceive of purely through her imagination, unassisted by nature and reality, and to convince her- self still more perfectly that there could be but one who had so far outstripped all other men by his rare attainments in all that was graceful, beautiful, and excellent. Since the old doctor had grown so feeble, her warm, kind heart had been drawn very closely to him, anU she had more than ever endeared herself by a thou- sand delicate and thoughtful attentions to his comfort. She kept his mantelpiece ever filled with beautiful and fragrant flowers, and his table supplied with every rare delicacy that might tempt his palate, and   T 'E TWO BEQUESTS.      357 many an afternoon she passed with him in his study, talking or reading, and still oftener singing for his pleasure. Of late her fingers also had been busily employed; while she sang, they were flying rapidly and gracefully along the bright rows of scarlet and black silk, out of which she was knitting a long, capa- cious-looking purse. Her pastor had availed himself of these opportunities for quiet, uninterrupted conver- sation, to speak on such topics as he thought would be calculated to interest and cheer one struggling with spiritual doubts; hoping, in this way, to lead her to talk freely to him of her perplexities and dis- quietudes, of which he had been for some time anx- iously aware, and for which, with fatherly sympathy and pity, he had longed to help her to find the only true remedy. At length the right time came; she had finished the long purse, and held it up that the brilliant colors might be admired, and then began to make her usual preparations for going home; but Dr. Blackstone ob- served a little heightened color in her cheeks, and a lingering, reluctant hesitation in her manner, as she approached to bid him good-bye. Drawing her gently towards him, he scrutinized her face with affectionate interest, and said kindly: "What is it, my dear child? For I know your ,.     358    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, face so well now that I can tell that you have not said to me this evening all you wish to say. You know how long I have been anxiously waiting to hear just a few simple words from you, telling me that you are at last willing to be nothing, to trust to nothing in yourself, but to Christ for all. Knowing that all fulness dwells in him, and that he tells you, in the words of the sweet hymn, you have so often sung to me," "You cannot buy, The price is all too high; Freely I give, Only believe and live." Isabella smiled brightly, though there were tears in her eyes as she bent down and kissed the old gentle- * man's brow, still leaving her hands in his, and whis- pered softly, as if almost afraid to trust her voice with the words: "I believe I can now come in all my unworthiness, and tell him I wish to be his child, and will try to love him as fully and entirely as I ought to do. But you know, Dr. Blackstone, I can never promise to be good and saintly, like Nellie. I have nothing of her sweet angelic nature in me. I can try, though, to fol- low at a distance, and to be a true and sincere, though very unworthy, disciple. Will that do?"   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       359 "That will do, my dear; enter the Master's school and sit at his feet and learn. It is for him to bid you come up higher." And then they had a fuller talk, and the old pas- tor's whole face was aglow with interest and pleasure and gentle sympathy, during their conversation. Isa- bella rose again to go, and again she looked embar- rassed and was still hesitating, and the doctor still waiting, with a patient quiet look in his face, when the door-bell rang and the servant came to announce the Rev. Mr. Halyburton, who had just returned to take up his abode at the Rectory; and Isabella was now going to hasten abruptly away, but the doctor said: "Don't let it hurry you off, my child, he can wait a few moments; I don't want your visit interrupted." With a crimson face she then handed him the beau- tiful purse she had finished that evening-into which she had, unobserved by him, slipped the contents of another she had in her pocket. There was in the bot- tom of one end a neatly folded draft upon her banker, and on top of that, and in the other side, were broad shining gold pieces, which showed temptingly through the open stitches. "I want you, doctor, to take this with you, and try a sea voyage for your health. For my sake you must     360    HEA VENWARD LED; OR, get well and strong, just as soon as possible, for I, you know, can have no other pastor but you. No one else would understand me, and it has taken me so long to know you as well as I do now! But I believe I love you all the more for that, so do try your very best to get well soon, and come back to us, and be to us all again for many coming years what you have already been these many years past." The old gentleman was much touched, and feeling that his acceptance of her gift would strengthen and deepen the tie just formed between them, he smiled, and said: "I thank you very much, my sweet child, for all your generous kindness, but even more for your confi- dence and love; and I accept this beautiful and valu- able gift from you with all the more pleasure because I prize so much the love which made you wish to bene- fit one who was once your mother's friend and pastor, and who will gladly be yours also as long as the Mas- ter pleases. But that we must leave, with all the rest, to his Divine will and pleasure. Whatever may hap- pen to me, you still have Jesus for your friend and brother and teacher, and will never really be at a loss for anything which is necessary to your spiritual comfort and good. Whenever you shall stand in need df human help and human sympathy he will provide   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       361 them; yes, he will assuredly provide for all youi wants. I sometimes think, my child, that my race is nearly run, though I speak but little of it. I hope you will like my substitute, and probably my succes- sor. I think you will, for he is a noble standard bearer, whom you can fully trust; so do not stand too much upon the reserve with him, and I shall speak to him of you." Isabella's eyes were full of tears now, and the old doctor seeing them, said, gently smiling: " There, do not weep, my dear, for you know I have not yet said, 'you shall see my face no more!'" "Ah, yes, you will get better, I am sure, when you have tried rest and recreation and travel," said Isa- bella, drying her tears, and trying to speak with bright hopefulness. "Good-bye, I shall call to-morrow to see if you are not already better," she added, cheerfully, after she had reached the door; and in spite of his sad words at parting, she felt, as she walked home, serenely and trustfully happy and tranquil. The good pastor's affectionate glance followed her as she passed out of the door, and in his heart he offered short but earnest prayer for her. Throwing, then, the rich purse which he had been holding in his hand, hastily and carelessly down on one end of the 31     362    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, table, he hurried out to welcome cordially his young friend and assistant, the newly ordained minister, and bring him into his own sanctum. The reader having been told of the very favorable impression which the Rev. Henry Halyburton has already produced upon the minds of the public, we are tempted to give him a full description of that gentle- man's personal appearance and manners, that he may judge somewhat for himself of his attractions. His figure was tall and slight, with easy graceful move- ments. In his manner was blended courtly grace and dignified deference, especially towards the aged, and to women of every rank and degree, with the most winning naturalness; and, when intimately acquainted, an almost boyish simplicity and trustful- ness. The stamp!of the Christian scholar and gen- tleman was, in short, unmistakably marked upon his whole bearing. His deep blue eyes, so full of thought and of soft earnest feeling, had a language of their own, which it needed few words to interpret. The somewhat sharp lines of the chin and face were relieved by a long, black, soft beard, which contrasted with the clear paleness of his cheeks, and the rows of faultlessly even white teeth, which his ready genial smile made frequently conspicuous, when he was roused and interested in conversation; but at times   THE TWO BEQUESTS..      363 when silent and thoughtful, there was an expression of almost melancholy in the countenance, which was, notwithstanding, always full of kind benevolent feel- ing. This gravity and his delicate appearance, made him to strangers often appear rather older than he really was; his age at the time we write of, being between twenty-eight and twenty-nine. Dr. Black- stone and all his family had been so much charmed and delighted with him on his previous visit that they welcomed him back, with the warm cordiality and affection of old friends, to their hospitable home, and expressed the greatest satisfaction at the prospect of his becoming an inmate of it. The two gentlemen, after they entered the study together, were soon deeply engaged in conversation. The younger one, feeling the solemn responsibilities of the office to which he had been so recently or- dained, and modestly diffident of his own fitness, in- experienced as he was in the work, to supply the place of the faithful pastor and teacher with whom the parish had been so long and so highly favored, was glad to hear all that the elder one could tell him regarding the duties to be discharged, and of his own long and varied pastoral experience. Like most hard students, and very earnest, intense thinkers, Mr. Halyburton was at times very absent-minded, and     364    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, made amusing little blunders, at which no one laughed afterwards more heartily than himself, al- though occasionally he was vexed, too, at awkward results which attended his forgetfulness. While talking with Dr. Blackstone, this evening, engrossed heart and soul in the interest of the subject they dis- cussed together, he presently took up, quite uncon- sciously, Isabella's purse from the table where it had been lying near his elbow, and, after having appar- ently examined it closely, deliberately put it in his pocket, still perfectly unaware of his own action. Dr. Blackstone observed him at first with some sup- prise, but soon understood that he was acting only under the same sort of mental abstraction which he himself had exhibited in carelessly throwing anything so valuable on the table directly in one's way, and smilingly resolved to wait and hear what the young man would say when he should presently become aware of his own strange proceeding. The evening passed on, and, by-and-by, tea was announced; and then all the family assembled afterwards in the parlor. Mrs. Blackstone was inclined at once to make a pet of the new comer, and highly enjoyed talking with him, and giving him practical advice. Florence found him so gentle, kind, and unassuming himself, and so much disposed to be sociable and communicative with her,   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       865 that her girlish shyness was entirely overcome, and she was gradually drawn to talk as freely and confidentially with him as if he had been quite an old friend, and, with all the girlish gushing fullness of sixteen, had soon told him of her various pleasures, and given him glowing accounts of her dear friends at the Park, ex- citing his lively interest by her admiring descriptions of Nellie and Isabella, and her accounts of their fa- ther, "old Captain Ashton," as Florence always called him, while all unknowingly to herself she had also, by the slight blushing mention, now and then made, of Charlie's name, betrayed her own closest secret heart. Mr. Halyburton listened, however, with a sedate, kind, elder-brotherly countenance and manner, not betraying by a smile or glance how much he had learned of her little bosom-romance. Some time after tea, towards the end of the evening, indeed, Dr. Wil- liam came in, having just returned from the Park, where he had spent some delightful hours with his lady-love. Mr. Halyburton and himself had taken a warm mutual liking to each other when they met be- fore, and their greeting now was most cordial and friendly. There were strong contrasts between them in some matters, but many important points of conge- niality also. The young doctor was the picture of 31*     866    HEAFENWARD LED; OR, fresh, vigorous health, and was full of bright ani- mal spirits. He was so strong and self-reliant, and confident in lis bearing, too, that it inclined one naturally to look to him for support and counsel when they felt the need of it. While the young min- ister's frame was slight and delicate, and there were lines about the mouth and brow indicating much re- fined, nervous sensibility, more frequently seen in a woman's (ace than a man's-probably this, as well as a certain unworldly-wise air and manner in all pecu- niary and business transactions, were both owing to habits of profound study. The physical and the ma- terial- portion of his organization succumbed, it was evident, to the intellectual, the mental, and the spiritual. In little every-day matters he was prone to lean on others for advice in a manner which some- times provoked a good-humored laugh from the judi- cious, practical young doctor; who loved him, however, none the less for his guileless innocence and simplicity of heart. Not a word on the subject of the purse had been spoken, and there it was snug in the pocket of the young clergyman when he was escorted to his room by Dr. William. Florence had retired, too, to write her usual quota to Charlie and Mrs. Blackstone, and her husband sat by the study fire for a little con- fidential chat.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       367 Mrs. Blackstone, in her warm, impulsive manner, expatiated upon the various charming qualities of their guest, summing up all finally by saying: "And what a devoted son he is to his widowed mo- ther! I should have known as much, too, by just the tone in which he utters those two little words, 'my mother.' She must be a remarkably fine woman, I am sure, to have inspired him with the respect and defe- rence which he evidently feels for all the sex. I should really like very much to know her, for his sake; for I do like so much to see young men with that exalted respect and regard for ladies which he has. To be sure, our William is just like him about that. They are certainly alike in their best and most prominent traits of character. Don't you think so, dear?" "Why, yes, they are both capital young men, undoubtedly, and I'll venture to say that their mo- thers each think it impossible that hers should ever be equalled by anybody else's darling. But, my dear, a strange circumstance has happened here this evening, which I should like either yourself or the young man's mother to explain satisfactorily--our guest, I mean, for I'm afraid he has robbed me." The old doctor said this with a serious face, though , he found it a difficult matter to maintain its gravity     368    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, when he saw the look of consternation and dismay which came instantly into his wife's countenance as she exclaimed: "What on earth do you mean, Dr. Blackstone?" "Why, listen now, and then tell me what this means," he replied. "That dear, generous child, Isabella, gave me this evening a beautiful purse which she made for me, and filled with gold, that I might try a sea voyage for my health. I do not know the amount it contained, but it was evidently of great value; so great that I disliked to receive it from her; but seeing that her heart was set upon making the gift, I could not bear to disappoint the dear child. Mr. Halyburton arrived just as she was leaving, and in my haste to meet him and bring him here, I threw the purse-most carelessly, I admit-on yonder table, near which he was seated until tea-time. No one has been in here since, and yet you see it is gone. In- deed, I missed it from the table before tea." Now, however, in spite of all the doctor could do to preserve his solemn gravity of tone and manner, there was a suspicious twinkle in his dear old eyes, and a sup- pressed smile around the corners of his mouth, which his wife observed, but could not comprehend. He a was always so indifferent, she thought, about money matters, that it did not surprise her so very much that   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       369 he could jest now about this loss. She was convinced that his insinuations against Mr. Halyburton could only be to tease her forher warm and sudden fancy and oft-repeated praises. But the money did seem such a blessing sent by a kind Providence just when it was so much needed, and might so materially benefit her dear husband's health, that she was in no mood to relish a jest about its disappearance until she had satisfied herself fully as to its safety. With some- thing almost like sharpness in her tone, therefore, she exclaimed, after searching not only the table, but every corner of the room, carefully: "My dear husband! tell me exactly what you do mean, for Heaven's sake, and don't tease me by these ill-timed jests; it is much too serious a matter." The doctor had at first gravely shaken his head at her search, and insisted that it was useless. In an- swer, however, to her earnest appeal, he laughingly said: "Come, then, Betsy, sit down, and I'll tell you soberly and truly just where I believe it is at this moment." And he bent over and whispered myste- riously: "In our young friend's pocket, safe enough, for I saw him put it there." Mrs. Blackstone could make no reply to this, so perfectly astounded was she. Either her husband had 2A     370t    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, lost his senses suddenly, or they had all made a terri- ble mistake as to the character of the man who was beneath their roof. The old doctor laughed so heartily at her rueful face, that it was some minutes before he could complete his explanation by saying: "But, my dear, he is as innocent of any knowledge of having done so as you yourself were until this minute. In a fit of abstraction, while talking ear- nestly to me, he took it up and put it in his pocket right before my eyes. I did not recall him to con- sciousness on the subject, because I was curious to see how far he would go before making the discovery for himself of what he had done." Mrs. Blackstone was certainly relieved at hearing this, though, like a prudent wife, she remarked: "I think it would have been much wiser to have spoken at the time. Suppose he should lose the purse, or never say anything to us about it, thinking it had been bestowed upon him by some friend, in so delicate a manner as to leave him unaware of the gift until accidentally discovered. Either of these cases might occur, and it would then be very difficult and awkward for us to claim it." "Never fear, Betsy; I'll take care that the matter does not go too far. I am amused whenever I ima- gine his surprise and bewilderment when he shall   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       371 come across the purse in his pocket, and curious to see whether he will be able to recall the circumstance of his having taken it off the table, though so uncon- scious, as I know he was at the time, of the whole affair. It is a bad thing to be so absent-minded, and I must try to cure Halyburton, and myself too, if I can," said the doctor. "You are making a costly experiment on this oc- casion, my dear, if you will allow me to tell you so," answered his wife dubiously. Breakfast was half over next morning, when Mr. Halyburton suddenly ceased talking, and looked very serious for a few moments; then putting his hand in his pocket he drew out the missing purse, and with an expression of deepest concern and perplexity in his face, laid it before Dr. Blackstone, saying in a tone of almost entreaty: "Do, my dear sir, try to help me, if you possibly can, to unravel this strange mystery." Mrs. Blackstcne immediately began to smile and to glance knowingly at her husband as she waited with eager interest to hear his reply. The other members of the family, not being at all in the secret, were simply surprised at this strange proceeding of the young clergyman. With great difficulty Dr. Black- stone preserved his gravity, as with feigned astonish-     372    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, ment and curiosity he proceeded to examine the "strange mystery." "Why," he said at length, "it seems to me to be a very handsome purse; doubtless the workmanship of some kind lady friend; and it is certainly enviably well filled, too, with good gold pieces; at least, judg- ing by its weight, I should think the gold must be good. I am truly glad, Halyburton, that you came among us so well provided. But what mystery am I to unravel?" Mr. Halyburton answered with a troubled, thought- ful, and still perplexed face: "It is the strangest thing in the world! I can't imagine how I got hold of that thing! It is not mine. But whose can it be?" His brows were contracted, and he looked as if he was searching every corner of his brain for a clue to the mystery; and from the contemptuous tone in which he pronounced the word one might have sup- posed the "thing'. to be some contemptible insect or reptile instead of a handsome purse, well filled, as the doctor had said, with good gold. The old gentleman still kept his countenance as he replied: "Upon my word that is singular! Perhaps 'the gift may have been intended as an anonymous one,   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       373 and have been conveyed mysteriously by the donor in such a manner as to afford you an agreeable surprise, and at the same time lessen the chances of discovery. Are you sure, now, that it was not slipped into your hand yesterday at parting from some dear friend, and that your emotion at the time prevented your dis- covery of the fact? Try to recall all the incidents of yesterday's journey--who accompanied you to the cars, &c., &c." As he made these last suggestions he glanced with mischievous meaning towards his wife, who was gravely and warningly shaking her head at him all the time. "It is no use, doctor; I have gone all over that ground a dozen times at least in my cogitations and reflections; and if, with my very annoying and unac- countable habits of forgetfulness at times, I could dare be sure of anything about it, I should feel per- fectly convinced that I never laid eyes upon that purse before last night, in my own chamber, when, chancing to put my hand in my pocket for my knife, I drew this thing most unexpectedly out. I thought at one time that it might belong to a young lady with whom I travelled for somne distance yesterday, and whose ticket I purchased at the dep8t; but that is impossible, for I distinctly remember the appearance of the portemonnaie she gave me, and which I imme- 32     374    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, diately returned; and that is the only transaction of the kind which passed between us. Unless some strange spell is indeed on my brain, I cannot possibly be mistaken in that. But were this any other than the house of a clergyman, who, I suppose, is not in the habit of throwing purses of gold about, I should think I must have picked it up here somewhere. In- deed, I could not help hoping--improbable as it seemed-that you might know something about it." Then, with an air of desperation almost, he turned, and handed it to Florence, saying: "Miss Florence, isn't it yours?"  Florence's eyes had been growing bigger and big- ger with astonishment as this dialogue went on be- tween her father and his assistant. But her wonder- ment was still more increased instead of being diminished, as she now reco gnised Isabella's purse. "Why, surely, father," she exclaimed, "that must be the purse Isabella was making! It is so exactly like it! But where could Mr. Halyburton have gotten it? Brother Will, did you bring it, and slip it in his pocket last night?" Dr. William laughed at the idea, saying: "Now, Florry, tell me how that would have been possible, unless I had first mesmerized Mr. Halyburton or ad- ministered chloroform to him. I know no more about   THE TWO BEQ-UESTS.      375 the purse than yourself; not so much, indeed, for I should not have recognised it. Was not Miss Isabella here yesterday evening herself? She may have left it in the study, and Mr. Halyburton, being a forget- ful man, may have picked it up and then forgotten all about it. What do you say to that theory, Mr. Halyburton?" "It is probably correct. But I am truly mortified," said Mr. Halyburton gravely. The old gentleman laughed gleefully now, and said, as he laid his hand on his young friend's shoulder: "There is not the least occasion, sir, to feel mortified, although you did coolly rob me of my property yes- terday evening right before my eyes, while we were talking in the study-for that purse is mine!" Mr. Halyburton looked astonished and incredulous, but also very much amused at the good story which his friend had on him. "Can that be possible? How could I have man- aged it? I think you must still be jesting with me, doctor," he laughingly exclaimed. "Not a bit of it, I assure you. I 'll explain it all to your satisfaction presently," answered the doctor. "I don't wish you to fancy, my friend, that I am in the habit of throwing such richly filled purses about in that style, though I was on this occasion very care-     376    HEAVENWARD LED: OR, less, and almost as absent-minded as yourself. A dear young friend-Isabella Ashton, of whom I heard Florry speaking to you last night-had been sitting with me yesterday afternoon in my study, as she is in the habit of doing frequently since my feebleness has confined me so much to the house. When she was leaving, which happened to be just as you arrived, she gave me this beautiful purse, requesting that I would spend the contents in travelling and trying to recruit my health. She is a dear, tender lamb, over whom I have been watching with much solicitude for many, many months; and for the first time succeeded yester- day evening in inducing her to speak of the interest which I have long since seen had been awakened in her heart for things spiritual and divine. Her words then were not many, but sufficient to fill my heart with hope and comfort for her. They moved me deeply, and I confess that in the pleasurable excite- ment of feeling which they had produced I could not think very long about the money; and then, in ad- dition to that was the pleasure of welcoming you back to us; and so, in my hurry to meet you, whom I had already detained, I heedlessly threw the purse on the table. Your chair happened to be near the very spot where it lay; and in the engrossing interest of our conversation you took it up, examined it carefully, as a   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       3" it seemed, and then put it in your pocket. I saw how it all was at once, and felt tempted to let you remain in ignorance of your own act, that I might enjoy your astonishment afterwards, which I have done, amaz- ingly too. The fact is, Halyburton, we are both absent-minded fellows, and must cure ourselves." There was a general explosion of laughter round the table now, which no one enjoyed more heartily than Mrs. Blackstone, who laughed until the tears rolled down her cheeks. Mr. Halyburton laughed too, and, turning to Florence, said: "Miss Florence, won't you help me to cure this very mortifying weak- ness of mine? Ladies are never absent-minded, are they?" Florence smiled, and promised to try. Mrs. Black- stone was pleased at the pains he took to draw Florence out and cultivate her acquaintance, and glad to see Florence so much at her ease with him and appearing to advantage as she did in his society, for she was a shy little thing with strangers usually, though so bright and fascinating with her own home folks. As the old doctor looked up and saw her smiling benignly down from the head of the table upon their guest, a mischievous idea seized him, and he ex- claimed, "By the way, Halyburton, I did not tell 32* 1     878    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, you how anxious my wife was about our purse, lest you should think it had been some delicate or anony- mous offering of friendship, and not think of mention- ing it; and so we should have no opportunity of claiming it again, and lose our chances for the sea voyage which she wants me to take." "Oh, Dr. Blackstone!" exclaimed his wife, rushing at him, and clasping her hands lightly over his mouth. Then turning, with her face red from laughter and confusion, towards Mr. Halyburton, she asked: "Did you ever see an old man carry on so like a silly school-boy before? Some people never do learr to give up joking; but please don't mind him, Mr, Halyburton." "There, there, my dear Betsy, do let me go or speaking, and I'll tell no more tales out of school,' said the doctor, as he gently and smilingly withdrew her hands from his face, and held them fondly in his own. "I think I shall take this voyage, Halyburton, if Doctor Thornton, approves. William, and my wife and Isabella, all urge me to do so. And I want t( speak to you especially about this dear young friend She has wound herself very closely about my heart- all the closer, perhaps, for the anxiety I have so long felt on her account, and the difficulty I have expe   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       379 rienced in overcoming her reserve. I feel grieved at the thought of leaving her just now, at the very out- set of her Christian life. You must watch tenderly over her for my sake. She is a rarely-gifted creature, with a heart as wide and deep as the ocean almost, and yet so shrinkingly distrustful of her own profes- sions, that it has been difficult to gain her consent to acknowledge publicly the Master whom she has in secret been long trying to follow. But this point once gained, in her case, there can never be any drawing back. She will, I am convinced, go on steadily and rapidly, and her path will be 'as the shining light that shineth more and more unto the perfect day.' You must, however, prepare yourself for her great reserve in making professions of feeling." The young clergyman's eyes were fixed with a look of intent absorbed interest upon the face of the elder one, for the description was one which could scarcely fail to awaken a deep interest in the individual described. Mrs. Blackstone, however, smiled, and said: "He is giving you a very dangerous charge, Mr. Halyburton; and unless you are. provided with some strong countercharm, you will run a great risk of having your heart severely damaged while exercis- ing this 'tender' watchfulness; for Isabella Ashton is, beyond all comparison, the most beautiful young crea-      880    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, ture I ever saw, as well as being, as my husband says a rarely-gifted one. So, in my opinion, you'll hav to keep as close a watch over yourself as over her." "That is just the way with you women; under n circumstances can you imagine an unmarried man an a young lady being associated together from an; cause, but you instantly begin to think of ,and pla some matrimonial arrangement. Isabella is but child compared to Halyburtqp; but, were she not, am sure he would not stop to think of any sentiments nonsense when there is a duty to be performed toward any man, woman, or child in the congregation ove which he is placed in charge. I leave my dear floe to him in this comfortable assurance." The old gentlemian looked almost wrathfully up X his wife as he made this reply, and then turned h: eyes inquiringly upon Mr. Halyburton, as if expectin him to confirm his words. "I shall try by God's help, as I before told you, m dear sir, to fulfil all the duties of the sacred office upo which I am entering, with an eye single to my Maker service, and a heart intent upon the good of those 1 whom I am called to minister, irrespective of age, ran] or condition," said the young minister, with earner gravity. Then, with a pleasant, genial smile, he turne to Mrs. Blackstone, who he feared was a little wounde   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       381 by her husband's rebuke, and, in a low, rather confi- dential tone, said, "Perhaps I am provided with a counter-spell against the dangers you suggest; I never expect to be married." "For goodness sake, why?" exclaimed that lady, with almost indignant warmth. "I hope you don't believe in the celibacy of the clergy?" she continued, with an air that seemed to imply that he had best get rid of that notion if he did. "Not at all," he answered, looking much amused at her warm, positive manner. "But you see I am not a very young man now-a little past twenty-eight years of age-and having escaped so far the usual fate of young men, and with my mother to take care of, don't you think I might be satisfied with her for my household idol? Indeed, I can scarcely imagine my- self with a house over which she shall not preside." "Ah, yes, all that does very well indeed; nobody appreciates more highly than I do a son's devoted, dutiful love for his mother; but you must not let that keep you from thinking a wife necessary too. Your mother can't live for ever, and could never take the place in congenial love and sympathy of an affectionate young wife. She wishes you to be married, I dare say; for, much as I love my Willie, there, and jealous as I feel for his love in return, not for the whole world     382    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, would I hinder his marriage one single day. 01 Willie, dear, I do wish I only had my way with somr body's father! It is so unreasonably selfish in him t treat you children so i" "Never mind, mother, I shall have my full rewai some day; meantime I must try not to grumble at tl delay," said Dr. William. "But, Mr. Halyburton, did you mean to say ye had never been in love, and never expect to be  long as you live?" exclaimed Florence, referring what be had said to her mother. "No, indeed, Miss Florence, I did not mean to sC any such thing; and as you are so earnest in yo0 questions, I suppose it is only fair to return the co fidence you gave me last evening, and tell you a litt of my heart's history, if it will interest you. In t] first place, so far from meaning to say I had nev been in love, I have had many boyish love scrape and have in my youth fancied myself deeply in lo many times; but they were just little shadows, ye know, of the great reality-a few months and we hi forgotten each other-and so I have escaped the fa of many who have married under the influence  one of those transient, shadowy emotions. But I ha once in my life beheld a face which has haunted n memory ever since, and effectually cured me of v 6 d   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       383 inclination to fall in love. I could never love any woman with that fair young face living, as it does, in my heart, while I can quite as little cherish the wild hope of ever seeing it again in this life. She has passed by me; but I can never forget that she did so pass. Florence's pretty blue eyes were stretched very wide, and she exclaimed: "Why, that's perfectly romantic, Mr. Halyburton! Do tell me all about her, and how it all happened." "I wish I knew all about her myself, Miss Flor- ence, but I don't, and so often I have blamed my folly for losing my only opportunity of knowing any- thing about her. I should have stayed where she was, and not have rested until I found out all I could. But I was foolish, and had no idea at the time of how severely I had been damaged, as your mother would say, by the single glimpse I had of that lovely face I met while travelling nearly four years ago,when I had been sent by my uncle to try a continental tour for my health, which the severe labors of the winter had impaired. I had no opportunity of making her acquaintance, but chanced to see just for a few moments a young girl with the loveliest face I have ever beheld-a face with such a deeply touching sad history in it! It was not the physical beauty alonu     384    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, which I admired, but the noble heart and pure lofty soul which looked forth from those beautiful features that captivated me. Her beauty was much admired by the crowds who daily passed her, as I did; but yel none seemed capable of seeing what I saw there, or of reading what I read. Still, as I just said, I did not know until tod late that I could never, never for get that look. II left the place next day, and wa, afterwards ill; ard when I returned home after mn tedious recovery, it was to announce to my uncle mn determination to study for the ministry, since which time I have gone through my long course of theologi cal study, and much experience of various kinds; bu through all have seen that sweet appealing face s constantly before me that I am almost tempted t think she was my destined one; and that havin turned away from my destiny, I am punished lik the Wandering Jew-I can't forget." Mrs. Blackstone and Florence listened with intene breathless interest to this little romance, and immed ately began to plan some possible means by which might be made to happen that Mr. Halyburton shoul once more meet with the "young foreign girl." "Ah!" said Mrs. Blackstone, "when I go abrov with my husband, who knows but I may meet her You must describe her to me, so that I may recogni. ,         I   THE TWO BEQUESTS.      385 her when we do meet. But after all, though, you had better try to forget all about her, and take another in her place. Isabella Ashton will drive her out of your head quick enough, I'll venture to say. But I don't think that would do much good, for she 'll never marry a clergyman. Indeed, it seems understood that she'll never marry at all, although she is so young. Her father's bad influence over her, I dare say, poor child." Again the old doctor began to grow fidgety and worried, and replied presently, quite tartly, to his wife, "Why, Betsy! why will you repeat what people say about that child? As to her not marrying a clergyman, I 'd like to know who can tell anything about that? She will marry when her heart is gained by some happy fellow, and not before; and when once her heart is gained, she'll ask no questions as to what his calling may be, or whither he is going, but will help him nobly in every good work, and go with him, if need be, to the world's end." "Upon my word, my dear husband, it is well I am not jealously inclined, or I might feel fretted at your warmth whenever I venture so far as to name your favorite. Perhaps the idea of her not marrying a clergyman is entirely my own, bBut just try to think of her in such an ordinary humdrum routine of daily 33       2B     386    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, life. Think of her in my place for instance. Don' you think she would look a little misplaced?" "Not misplaced anywhere that God puts her, Mrs Blackstone," replied the husband, gravely. "Is sh not, for that matter, every day discharging her humbl household duties? with rare ability and faithfulness grant, and with a sweetness and grace that make them even beautiful. Is she not a blessing to her owl family, to the poor, and to this whole community There, now, excuse my warmth again, Betsy; but yoi know the peculiar trials she has had to bear, whic] have inclined my heart so tenderly towards the dea child; so don't let us discuss her any longer a present." It was hardly surprising that, after this long an( heated discussion between the minister and his wife of which Isabella had been the subject, Mr. Haly burton should find himself thinking of her ver; frequently during that day, wondering what she wa like, and how he should succeed in his efforts to mak her acquaintance. Once, indeed, his heart suddeniI took a wild leap, as like a flash the thought darter through his mind that it might be possible he wa actually about to meet his "Destiny" again. Bu then a cooler reflection dampened instantly the glow ing thought, and made him resolve to put this youn   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       887 lady-the minister's pet evidently--out of his head. The next Sunday he was to appear for the first time in Dr. Blackstone's pulpit. It was Communion Sun- day, too, and the last one before the old gentleman would set out on his travels; for when once he had determined to take the voyage, he was impatient of all unnecessary delay. Mr. Halyburton was much in his own room during those intervening days before the eventful Sunday, making diligent and earnestly prayerful preparation for all its duties and privileges. Isabella several times saw her kind pastor in his study, and had, by his advice, determined to unite herself on that Sunday with God's people. And she felt very tranquil and happy now that her mind was once firmly made up. Going one night into Nellie's room, she told her of her determination, adding, "But remember, sister Nell, I don't go because I feel holy and good, but only to offer all my unworthiness to God, hoping that he will take me as I am, and make me just what he would have me to be-one of His own little ones. It is but the beginning with me; and, as there must be a beginning to everything, I can't wait any longer for mine." Nellie's heart bounded with joy and thankfulness as she embraced her dear sister an I bade her "God speed." Then they talked long and fully together of their      388    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, common hopes and joys, and precious privileges, en' ing with a little choking prayer that came from tl very depths of their hearts, which, though hard audible to human ears, ascended with ready accep ance to the Throne of Grace.   I The day after this Isabella sought and found a opportunity of seeing her father alone, and tellir him, also, of the step she was about to take in a fe brief, characteristic words, which surprised him vei much, both on account of the confidence she evince in him after their long estrangement, and then aga because he had taken it for granted, from her co scientious and scrupulous .regard to the dictates  conscience and duty, that she had long ago made su a profession. He made no comment, however; bt when Sunday morning came, -he offered to escort I daughter to church, where he had not been before f much more than a year, although each Sabbath mor ing Nellie went regularly to him and tried by eve: sweet, coaxing wile to induce him to accompany her Dr. Blackstone was present in the chancel to assi in administering the communion, ahd intending al to say a few farewell words to his people. The chur was thronged, many besides the usual congregatie being attracted, partly by curiosity to hear the n( preacher, andc partly out of respect and esteem f   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       389 the venerable old rector, and to hear his parting address. Isabella and Nellie sat together, as usual, in the choir, deeply impressed and occupied with thoughts suited to the solemnity of the occasion. But scarcely had the opening sentence of the morning service been pronounced in the voice of the young clergyman, when Isabella, with a sudden start, and a face of marble whiteness, bent forward to catch a glimpse of the speaker's face for one moment only, then, drawing back, a sort of quiver ran through her frame, and her face retained its still white hue; but she bowed her head over her prayer-book, and, making one strong effort, silenced this great emotion, and listShed to God's holy words with a sweet feeling of deep, trust- ing love, security, and thankfulness to her loving Heavenly Father for having chosen this voice as the one through which her soul was to be ministered to on this happy day, from which was to date the commence- ment of her life as a Christian pilgrim. For several weeks back Isabella had at times had strange and sad presentiments of coming evil, which had made her long more than ever for Charlie's speedy return. The same shadowy cloud fell again suddenly for a few moments over her spirit, but was followed by a sense of inexpressible comfort and hopefulness 33      390     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, and strength, as she raised her eyes for a moment t the slight figure and pale thoughtful face in the rea( ing-desk. What had not that voice already done t raise and lift up her drooping heart, when years bac it had been so oppressed and cast down with soul-fe heaviness and bitter resentment against all the world For she at once recognised it as the same, the ver same, she had hearkened to in the old castle grounc at Baden-Baden.- She tried to check, however, th rushing tide of memory and the wanderings of he thoughts, and to enter with renewed interest ar earnestness into the devotional spirit of the solem services of the day. Herrbeautiful voice sounded out, full, clear, stroni and sweet through all the hymns and chants, and i the short solo before communion, which was mo happily chosen. There was a tone of hopeful glad ness and almost of seraphic sweetness in her voice : she sang the closing words, especially of the solo, "Jesus, our Great High Priest, Hath full atonement made; Ye weary spirits rest, Ye mournful souls be glad." Many an enraptured look was turned toward ti choir, of which she was unconscious, being absorb(   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       391 entirely in the spirit of the holy song. Tears rolled down the cheeks of the old pastor as he listened and rejoiced over the new hopes and joys which he knew had arisen in her young heart to gladden and beautify her future life. And the young minister felt his soul enkindled to new ardor and devotion by the heavenly strains. No one at the rectory, in all their discussions respecting Isabella, had, strange to say, spoken of her beautiful voice in singing; so that he did not associate her for a moment with the exquisite melody which was filling his very soul to overflowing with feelings of rapture and delight. Indeed, after the first day which followed his. arrival, when she had occasioned such a warm debate between the minister and his wife, he had banished her entirely from his thoughts, except re- membering her name as one over whom he was to have a kind and faithful eye of watchful care, and to help as a younger sister in the faith, should she require encouragement and support. After service Captain White and Colonel Fitzhugh were standing at the church door, as usual, waiting for the Ashton party. Nelhe had already taken her father's arm, and they left the vacant place at her other side for the young doctor, while they joined Isabella. They were on terms of the kindest and     392    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, warmest friendship now with both sisters, and always claimed the privilege of walking with the family party from church, to have a little chat about the sermon. When the young doctor was able to be in his place at church, the old colonel was in the habit of taking little Rosa's hand and following in Nellie's rear, with George, also, attached to his party. To-day, how- ever, he loitered far behind Nellie, putting Isabella and Captain White between himself and the trio, of which Captain Ashton was one of the parties. Before they had gone very far the family from the rectory, who had taken a shorter route, met them as they turned a street corner. The old minister and his wife were walking slowly behind Florence and Mr. Halyburton. "Those were our friends Isabella and Nellie Ash- ton," said Florence, glancing back over her shoulder to give another smile and bow after they had passed each other. "Did you see their faces?" she asked. Mr. Halyburton had certainly seen one face at least, and was paler than ever with agitation and sur- prise. He replied to Florence's question, in a grave, quiet tone: "Yes, Miss Florence, I had a slight pass- ing view of them, and thought your praises fully justified." From his manner Florence thought he meant to re-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.      393 buke her talking lightly so soon after church; and coloring, she remained silent a few moments, until Mr. Halyburton said: "I suppose that was Captain Ashton walking with your brother and one of the young ladies?" "Yes," said Florence; "isn't it a pity?" "Isn't what a pity, Miss Florence?-that he walked with them?"  "No; that he is so selfish and hard-hearted he won't let them get married. Papa says that he has no control over Isabella; but then he has talked to her so that she never will marry, everybody says. Don't you think she is perfectly beautiful-a great deal prettier even than that foreign girl you can't forget?" she asked, laughing and looking up archly at him. "I have never seen a more lovely face in my life, Miss Florence, than your friend Miss Ashton has," he replied with the same calm, dignified gravity; but con- tinued, with a look of intense amusement: "I did not say, however, that the young lady of whomoI spoke was foreign; she was said to be an American- though my friends were not absolutely certain about that." "Yes; but you own that she was not so pretty, half, as Isabella-don't you?"     394  .  HEAVENWARD LED; OR, "She could not be more beautiful than your friend Miss Ashton; but you must not try to make me faith- less to the memory of her beauty so soon, Miss Florence. You yourself would despise my fickleness were I to own that she has been already eclipsed; which, however, she by no means has." He smiled so meaningly, and his words sounded so ambiguous, that Florence wondered what he meant. After this little dialogue he relapsed into a state of silent thoughtfulness, and did not take his usual pains to entertain his companion. And after dinner he walked off by himself into the country, and tried to calm the perturbation of spirit which this unexpected meeting had occasioned, and prepare himself for the services of the evening. The day soon came for Doctor and Mrs. Blackstone to set out on their journey. It was the following Wednesday morning. Poor little Florence felt the approaching separation from her parents very much, and they had wanted to take her; but then she would be away when Charlie came-and she could not think of such a thing as that. Mrs. Blackstone had insisted that Mr. Halyburton should bring his mother to stay with him at the rectory during the absence of herself and her husband, and he was to go for her the following week. When,Isabella and himself were in-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       395 troduced they both succeeded in hiding the joyful tumult of their feelings under a calm, kind, cordial, friendly greeting, without the betrayal on either side of any consciousness of their previous meeting. Each thought the other was unaware of that circumstance. A few weeks glided by, and Charlie arrived, look- ing so well; his figure had developed into graceful manliness of proportion, and his cheeks were brown and ruddy, all traces of his illness having entirely dis- appeared; and his countenance was radiant with hap- piness. His brave, manly spirit showed itself in his whole air and carriage, and he was full of youthful freshness and buoyant vivacity, spinning sailors' yarns and telling sea jokes in an irresistibly comic way. And yet, withal, so thoroughly courteous and gentle- manly, and so thoughtful and considerate of others. And now the little bird-like Florence went tripping lightly over the house, trilling glad notes of welcome, and appealing for sympathy in her great joy, not in words, but with her bright, beaming blue eyes, which looked as if they could not bear to see a shade of sadness on any human face, now that she-was so com- pletely happy. Mrs. Halyburton, the young minister's mother, was quite domesticated at the rectory, and loved Florence most tenderly. She sometimes watched her sprightly,     396    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, cloudless young face with a soft, wistful look, as she was reminded of her own fair young daughter, whom in her sweet girlish beauty she had followed to the grave; and she felt a nervous dread lest some evil should be shadowed forth on the horizon of Florence's future life, her present happiness seeming almost too complete to last. One morning the joyous child came bounding into the room, and seeing a graver look than usual on the elder lady's face, rushed up to her and began by a series of playful jests and caresses to try to make her look as cheerful and happy as she herself felt. The old lady held the happy young face in her hands, and looking fondly into the depths of her glad blue eyes, said: "Dear child, have you never a fear or a doubt regarding your earthly future? Ah! that the clear blue sky of heaven might ever remain unclouded over your young head! I can never bear to think of tears coming to dim those bright eyes." "And you must not think of it now, at least, dear Mrs. Halyburton. When the time comes for weeping, Charlie will be near me at any rate, for we are never now to be far apart again. He will be at the Semi- nary only for a few years, and that is so near we can hear every few days from each other, and meet very often. Isn't that delightful? And then, when he is through with all his studies, why, we will be always   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       397 together. How can I be ever sad as tong as he is here upon this very earth that I stand on, and no longer on the treacherous sea?" Then she capered two or three times round the room before she rang the prayer-bell, and demurely took her seat. Ellen and Isabella, too, were truly rejoiced and gladdened by Charlie's arrival. Each had her own individual story to tell of life's experi- ence during their long separation. Nelhe was so gratified at the warmth and cordiality of the brotherly greeting which ensued between the young doctor and himself, and Charhe had so many words of highest praise to bestow upon him, which sounded so sweet to her ears. Her brother seemed, if possible, closer and dearer to her heart than he had ever been. He much regretted, however, their father's opposition to the marriage; but Nellie assured him that she was so happy she could not possibly repine for any higher bliss. On Dr. Blackstone's account, however, she would gladly, if she could, shorten the time of uncer- tain delay. Yet she was sure it must be best for them both, or it would never have been so ordered for them. Isabella was dear, indeed, to her brother's heart, now that the tie which united them as members of one household had become an eternal bond which even death itself could not sever. He watched with ten- 34     398    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, der interest tnd pleasure the development and growth of those sweet Christian graces which so enhanced the beauty of her naturally noble and high-toned character. After two most happy weeks at home, Charlie left for the Virginia Seminary, being in all the more haste, as he told Florence, that he might the sooner come back and claim her for his bride, and begin their new life in that dear, dear little rectory of which she was to be the mistress and his own dear fellow-laborer in all his parish work. And with the young minister Charhe had already established a brotherly intimacy, their common interests and pursuits aiding the natu- ral sympathy and congeniality between them. Mr. Halyburton's popularity continually increased instead of diminishingin ---- . The church was so crowded Sunday after Sunday, that new seats had to be put there, and the voice of praise and admiration grew louder and louder. Still he re- mained humble and unassuming, unspoiled by even this severe test. His chief delight was to minis- ter to the poor and needy, his aim not being popu- larity or fame--which came perhaps all the more readily on that account-but to win souls to Christ. In spite of himself, as it seemed, he had become all the fashion. Even the young and giddy devotees of   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       399 the world praised him, and sought his society. His mother, who, as Charhe said, looked like the very poetry of middle life, with her sweet, grave, chastened countenance full of spiritual beauty and refinement of feeling, her tall, unbent figure, and her dress ele- gant in its tasteful simplicity, was held up as a per- feet model for a minister's wife or mother. Every possible attention was bestowed, and presents innu- merable were lavished upon them by wealthy and fas- tidious people, who had found good old Dr. Blackstone and. his simple, kindly wife only worth a little paas- ing, occasinal notice. Even Isabella, who had been so much opposed to the good old minister's being over- shadowed by the dazzling qualities of his successor, appeared now not at all surprised or annoyed at Mr. Halyburton's being so evidently preferred, but seemed to regard it quite as a thing of course that he was naturally to take the pre-eminence over every one else, A confidential intimacy and friendship soon sprung up between the young minister, his mother, and Isa- bella. Mr. Halyburton had at once acknowledged to himself the ardent and devoted love which had so long dwelt in his heart for the beautiful unknown, now re- cognised in the person of Isabella Ashton. To his mother, to whom he closely confided all his deepest feelings, he had often described in glowing colors, as     400    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, well as with touching pathos, the beautiful womanly child, with her evidently sad history written in mystic characters upon her face, and echoed, as he thought, in the pleading tones of the voice which had cried to him, as it were, from the depths of her lonely heart, on that never-to-be-forgotten night at the Conversa- tionshaus at Baden-Baden; and all that was womanly and tender in that gentle mother's heart had responded to the appeal made in her behalf. She had thought of the poor, forlorn child, and longed very often to kaow her fate; and was now most astonished-indeed a little incredulous-when, informed of er identity with the beautiful heiress to whom at mis time all the world of --   seemed ready to pay devoted homage. For Isabella, after that one little unpleasant occur- rence, soon after her entrance into society, had passed off, had risen to the highest pinnacle of estimation and regard; only that, with her elevated and noble purity of feeling, she seemed to occupy a position so exalted, that her would-be admirers found it difficult to gain access to her. With indifference she turned away from the incense of flattery and praise which were ceaselessly poured into her ears, while with childlike simplicity and warmth she poured out lavishy the treasure of her love upon   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       401 the few dear friends whom her wise judgment and the instincts of her heart taught her to approve and trust. Mystery, romance, and many other powerful elements, seemed combined to add an interest and charm to the life and character of this lovely creature in the eyes of the young minister and his mother; for it still re- mained unexplained to them how she could ever have been placed in the singular position in which Mr. Halyburton had first met her. It only became more and more clear to him that his heart's prophecy had been a true one. At his request, his mother remained perfectly silent as to the fact of their former meeting; indeed the old lady had her doubts all the time, though she did not express them to him, as to the identity of Isabella with her son's former object of admiration. She was inclined to believe that his idea was founded simply upon some accidental likeness: still the fancy pleased him and was not worth disputing.  She loved Isabella enthusiastically, not only on account of her intrinsic worth, but gratefully also for his sake, whom she saw made so supremely happy by Isabella's society and her kind esteem. For devotedly as the mother loved her son, and ardently as she prized his confiding and appreciating affection for herself, she was yet wise enough, and sufficiently unselfish, also, to 34*       2c     402    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, recognise the fact that she could not possibly supply' the demands of his young heart and nature, and was, therefore, prepared thankfully to welcome the younger congenial spirit, which could alone awaken that melody of being, and call out those joyful notes in his heart's music which had been silently awaiting her summons, without which they had been doomed to perpetual silence. In Isabella, too, she found all that she could ask of the one to whom she was to commit that sacred trust--her beloved son's earthly happi- ness and well-being. The possibility that Isabella could fail to return his affection never once entered her proud, fond maternal heart; so she had already taught herself to regard her in the light of a beloved daughter. The devoted love and intimate confidence which existed between this mother and son was truly and rarely beautiful. She was a woman who had faith- fully fulfilled her duties in the relations of wife and mother, and, with beautiful meekness and patience, had borne many domestic sorrows and trials, growing rich in grace and poor in spirit, proportionately with the severity of the trials to which her faith had been subjected. And now in her son's beautiful and ele- vated Christian character, which her own example and judicious training had helped so much to develop,   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       403 and in his unbounded love and respect for herself, she was reaping a rich reward. He seemed indeed to have almost lived her very life with her, making each trial, from which he could not shield her, his own, so close and strong was his filial love and sympathy. Each shadow on her brow which he could not chase away was reflected in his heart; and so his own character had been softened and rounded, and his piety had acquired that mellowed ripeness which only experience in the school of sorrow and suffering can give; and thus it was that he was now found tempered and fitted to bear, un- harmed, the severe test of great popularity with the promise of even brilliant pulpit fame. Isabella warmly reciprocated Mrs. Halyburton's affection, and it was inexpressibly sweet to her to receive from one whom she so much revered and loved, that tender, shielding, motherly care and love of which she was always conscious in their intercourse, though few professions were made on either side. With regard to her feelings for Mr. Halyburton, she had never questioned herself, but had acted towards him simply as nature and her heart impelled her. Well she remembered how he had spoken to her heart-as she had expressed it, at the time to her father-on the night of their first meeting, from the     404    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, clear depths of his earnest eyes, when, without one uttered syllable between them, he had plainly warned her of evil and danger.  And again there was treasured in- her heart the remembrance of the strangely fascinating power with which his voice had thrilled and penetrated her next morning, when it spoke those very words of cheer and hope and strength, of which her crushed spirit, with its sicken- ing sense of loneliness and depression, so sorely stood in need. How stimulated, nerved, and braced she had afterwards felt for the moral conflict and the self- sustained career to which destiny had appointed her in her immature and hitherto inexperienced youth! How could she but love and honor such a guide and friend? She would have despised herself for her ingratitude had she not fully recognised and ac- knowledged all the deep obligations she had incurred to him, although he himself might be unaware of the services he had rendered. She had little of what is called sentimentality in her nature, and was accused by some of her young friends of being very deficient in the art of ensnaring and captivating; and had been jested, and bantered, and threatened with all the horrors of old maiden- hood, because she had so thorough a distaste for flirtation and coquetry, that she was impatient of any   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       405 attempt made by her admirers to approach her with the usual superficial compliments and conventional pro- fessions which so frequently pass current in society as expressions of the genuine feeling, of which they are in fact only the poor counterfeits. Captain White had, however, succeeded in convincing her of the reality and depth of his love, and had in return been met by such respectful consideration, and such evident regret and pain for the disappointment of his hopes, and the wounded feeling she was compelled to occasion, that while he saw at once that her mind was unchangeably made up, and his fate irrevocably fixed, he felt that it was no humiliation to be so re- fused, and valued her cordial esteem and friendship too much to risk losing them by wearying and annoying her with a useless repetition of his suit; and fre- quently declared that, though unsuccessful, he was proud of knowing how to love and appreciate a woman of such rare and delicate sincerity, and of such inestimable worth. Certainly this experience, and the warm and true friendship which afterwards ensued between them, wonderfully dignified his own character and heightened his regard and respect for the female sex. New sources of enjoyment in social life, too, were opened to him in proportion as his tastes became elevated and refined.     406    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, Owing principally perhaps to her calm dignity and gentle repose of manner, and her rare candor and straightforward truthfulness, Isabella escaped to a marvellous extent the usual fate of belles-having her name associated by report with that of every young man of her acquaintance who chanced to be captivated by her beauty. And so also now, though the busy whispers of gossip were floating briskly about, regarding many young ladies who were accused of being partial to Mr. Halyburton's society, and vice versa, people were strangely unsuspicious and silent regarding herself and the young minister. The com- munity, usually so keen-sighted and quick in making discoveries of such a nature, were evidently blind to their mutual attachment, and allowed them in peace and quietness to enjoy, as they did to the highest degree, each other's society i Scarcely a day passed that Mr. Halyburton did not contrive by some means to spend a large portion of it in Isabella's company; and though no words of love had passed between them, there had, by means of that mysterious language of the heart which makes itself felt without such cold and formal medium, been ex- pressed, on the one side, devoted, tender, respectful ad- miration, and affection, and on the other, deep, strong, confiding trust, which could only spring from unalter-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       407 able love. In short, they were surrounded by a soft halo, and were looking at the world through that sweet roseate misty veil which transforms and beautifies all life, making it seem like a succession of calm, tranquil moonlight scenes; while in their ears all sounds were blended into one long note of joyous melody. And yet, strange to say, most of those with whom they came in daily contact saw nothing more than the usual monotonous change of one toilsome day succeeded by another, laden with heavy cares, relieved by short intervals of tedious enjoyment; nor heard anything softer than the grinding and pounding of the world's great machinery, where the daily bread is hardly earned by Labor's sweating brow. Perhaps the knightly and chivalrous element in Mr. Halyburton's character may have been disappointed not to find his beloved one needing his valiant heart and wise head-strong arm he could scarcely boast of-to rescue her from some sad and painful position to which an unpropitious fate had consigned her; for it was thus that he had thought of her these years back, and reproached himself for his failure to achieve her deliverance, when Providence seemed to have brought them together for that purpose. Be that as it may, he was daily realizing more and more how fully in her society and companionship the     408     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, highest requirements of his mind and heart and soul were all met and satisfied. For her rich stores of mental culture, and the deep mine of high, noble, and devoted feeling which was treasured up in her heart, made the lovely face and form, attractive as they were, the smallest of her charms. In modest self- distrustfulness, however, he continued for several months to love and worship silently, until at last im- patient destiny again took him by the hand and led him on towards the goal of his fondest hopes and wishes. Meanwhile Isabella was full of happy, trustful con- tent; and the unconscious world was busy planning aside for each some different allotment, not dreaming- of the great surprise in store for it. There were, however, a few individuals whose interested watchful eyes were making observations and drawing conclu- sions which approached very nearly the truth. Cap- tain White was compelled to admit to himself that the precious prize for which he had once resolved to con- tend with desperate persistence seemed to be upon the eve of becoming the prey of a more successful com- petitor. Yet not for all the world would he mention her dear name to gossips' ears, or direct attention to the delicately-guarded secret, which the keen insight of his love had enabled him to discover. Ellen and   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       409 Dr. Blackstone, and Charlie and Florence, smilingly discussed among themselves, sometimes, the tokens of an attachment stronger than friendly regard which had evidently grown up between the pair. But these were all who were at all enlightened upon the subject. Even Captain Ashton was doomed to be taken again by surprise when he found that his second daughter had been wooed and won while he remained in un- conscious ignorance of the danger of any such catastrophe. Some of Isabella's young friends were beginning already, in spite of her being still scarcely more than a child in years, to express themselves with amusing confidence upon the subject of her invulner- ability to all the shafts of the little blind god, which, according to their sage and mature predictions, was to end in shutting her out from the romance and poetry of life. Rose McPherson-now for some eighteen months or so Mrs. George Stanley, a happy young wife and mo- ther-was very positive in her convictions that Isabella was too entirely unlike other girls ever to care enough for any admirer to marry him; earnestly regretting that this should be the case, and losing no opportu- nity of delivering a pretty little matronly lecture on the subject, or of letting drop a casual hint or word of persuasion. One day, when Ellen and Isabella 35     "O    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, had called together to pay their visit of congratula- tion to the tiny Rosebud, over whose infantine exist- ence the happy mother was rejoicing, Rose rather abruptly turned the conversation to the young min- ister. by saying: "Oh! girls, George is so pleased that there has been no disappointment in anybody's expectations of Henry Halyburton, his friend and kinsman, whom he recom- mended in terms which so many persons thought ex- travagant at the time. The only trouble is that the people will never want to have Dr. Blackstone back again, for Mr. Halyburton has completely driven him from his old field of labor. I am really sorry for the good old gentleman." "Oh, I hope his people will never prove so false to themselves as to be ungrateful, and unmindful of all that they owe to dear good old Dr. Blackstone, our kind friend and pastor. I am sure that Mr. Haly- burton would never wish to be his rival, or to be the excuse for any diminution in the feelings of love and veneration of his people for Dr. Blackstone, and which assuredly is due him from them for his long- tried faithfulness and affectionate zeal in their be- half," said Isabella warmly. "Yes; but, my dear child, people are never ruled, you know, by a sense of duty, where their tastes and   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       4" fancies are concerned; and you must surely see your- self that the two men are not to be compared," replied Rose. "Oh, certainly, I can see that; but not to the dis- paragement of either. Dr. Blackstone's crown of silvery hair, whitened in the service of this very peo- ple, and his kind fatherly manner, were there nothing else, are sufficient to endear him, I should think, to their hearts." "Yes, that is all true again, Isabella; and I dare say the old people, and the very high-toned and pro- per young people, like you and Nellie, will; on these accounts, prefer him; but you know enthusiastic young girls are not so apt to be captivated by silvery locks and fatherly manners. They all go wild about Mr. Halyburton; he is quite the rage even among some of the ultra fashionables; and 'tis said that it would be hard to find a young lady who could refuse him were he to propose." "Come, dear Rose, pray don't let us take up this silly gossip about him; he is our minister, you know, and it does not seem right to accustom ourselves to speak so trivially of those who occupy that position towards us. How can people derive any profit from his ministry when they do so?" said Ellen, mildly but gravely.     "2 -   HEAVENWARD LED; OR, "I don't know indeed, Nellie dear, for you must remember that I am not religious, although it is grow- ing high time for me to try to become so," answered Rose, glancing at the same time fondly down at the little soft pink heap which lay nestled in her arms. Then resuming her light, gay tone, she continued: "But, as I told some one the other day, I must insist upon yourself and Isabella's being acknowledged to be exceptions to all the other girls, in this respect at least. You, having promised yourself away long ago, would not break your word for all the world; and Isabella, because she's so stately and majestic and dignified, she would never be able to admit that her heart was won, even if, after difficult siege, it should be taken. Isabella, I'd give anything to see you flirt a little; why won't you begin, just to oblige me?" "Rose, Rose! you would give anything to see me acting falsehoods; pretending to be charmed and de- lighted with what simply bores and wearies me; to be pleased and flattered when I am much more inclined to be disgusted; nay, actually pretending to feel deeply interested in one towards whom I am pro- foundly indifferent! I hope you will never see me flirt, dear Rose, as long as I live; for I do thoroughly   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       413 detest false shows of every kind, and long only for reality and truth." Isabella's face always kindled into a warm glow when she spoke with animation and excitement, as on the present occasion. Rose looked up admiringly at her, yet scarcely able to comprehend a nature so child-like in its simple transparency, accompanied by such womanly dignity and reserve of manner, that few would have ventured to put to her an intrusive question, or approach beyond certain limits of inti- macy and familiarity. After a few moments, she said a little suddenly: "Isabella, I do think you are not unlike Henry Halyburton! You two ought to be good friends, you are both always so terribly in earnest; and yet, I suppose, because the law of contraries must prevail, you will never appreciate him as much as he deserves, and as much as everybody else in the parish does. George says he is sure if it were not for Dr. William, that Nellie and he might have grown fond of each other; he is a great admirer of Nellie's as it is. What a beautiful match it would have been! I always thought she ought to marry a minister; but there it is, you see, again; she is too good, I suppose, to marry such a go)d man." Nellie flushed, and looked a little indignant, but 35*     "4    HEAVE NWARD LED; OR, made no reply. Isabella spoke up warmly again, saying: "Really, Rose, your head seems to be running wild in good earnest this morning, on the subject of Mr. Halyburton and his likes and dislikes. But -as for Nellie's marrying a good man, I think you would find it very difficult to point to a better one than Dr. Blackstone, with his truly noble heart and high Christian standard; and with regard to his profession, I am sure a physician has as many opportunities of doing good as a minister, if he only have the heart to use them rightly, which I am glad to say Dr. Black- stone has; and dear Nellie here is the sweetest and best of nurses, and the most tender and precious com- forter in the world. I often think how much good they will be able to do together, and what a blessing they will be to the sick and dying." Then looking proudly arnd fondly at Nellie, she added: "Come, sister Nell, it is time we should be going, is it not?" It was not often that she praised people enthusiast tically to their faces; but she knew that Nelhe had been a little hurt and pained by the invidious com- parison between Dr. Blackstone and Mr. Halyburton, which Rose's words had seemed to imply, which had appealed to her generous and tender sympathy, and drawn her out to speak what she felt for them both. ,0    THE TWO BEQUESTS.       415 Nellie gave her a pleased, grateful look, and got up to take leave. "Stop!" said Rose. "You must let me apologize for my foolish tattle this morning. I really did not mean the least thing by what I said of Dr. Black- stone, but all my life I have been in the habit of thinking that ministers must necessarily, and as a matter of course, be infinitely better than other people. I do indeed, though, agree with all you have said, Isabella, about doctors in general, and Dr. Wil- liam in particular. Nellie knows I love her dearly,  and like the doctor, too, vastly. I was just thinking of her as such a sweet model and example for all the rest of us in the congregation-that's all, Nellie, So you must forgive me, and let us part the best of friends, as I hope we shall always be, in spite of my giddy head and long tongue." They kissed each other warmly, and Nellie drew forth her offering to the little Rosebud-a beautiful little embroidered cloak and hood, which she had been waiting for an opportunity to present. There had been a good deal of other company when they first came, and then Rose hadlaunched forth ir:t( her dis- cussion of the young minister, leaving scarcely a mo- ment's pause for any interruption. The workmanship and design were both in Nellie's own exquisite taste,     "6    HEAVENWARD LED, OR, and Rose was enchanted with the beauty of the little articles, and so sorry that baby had fallen asleep, and she could not put them on at once, and take her to grandma to be admired. That strange foreshadowing of evil which had fallen upon Isabella's mind just before she made Mr. Haly- burton's acquaintance, seemed to flee away as sud- denly from that day, and as unaccountably, as it had come. She scarcely ever thought of it again; and that look of intense sadness which had been wont to steal at times into her face, in spite of the strong and constant effort of her will and her mind to overcome it, giving to its expression something of that unspeak- ably touching, appealing plaintiveness of the beautiful Beatrice Cenci, was softened now into sweet, thought- ful pensiveness, which had its spring partly in her excessive, happiness. She was happy, in the first place, in her rapidly-growing love for and trust in her Divine Saviour, whose service she found full of sweet- ness and comfort, for she was proving how just an estimate her kind friend and pastor had formed of her character when he had predicted the steadily in- creasing light which was to shine around her spiritual pathway following upon her act of unreserved self- consecration. And again, also, was she made happy by her love for Mr. Halj burton, and her entire con-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       417 fidence in him, and the certainty which filled her heart of his devoted love for her. Under these soften- ing, happy influences she was growing more patient, tender, forbearing, and charitable. Even for her father she could now find some excuse, and had never felt so much pitiful tenderness for him before. She had striven, however, so earnestly always to be re- spectful and dutiful in her manner towards him, that she herself was not aware of the change which Charlie and Nellie saw even in this respect. Nellie's charac- ter was to her a model of perfection which she was always holding up to herself, but with little hope of attaining to its beautifil symmetry; and was very sure she could never have made such a cheerful sacri- fice of herself to their father's whims as her sister had done. The two sisters found great delight ineach other's society, and in their little plans of benevolence and charitable work. Mr. Halyburton always came to them for assistance when there was any work on hand requiring either delicate tact or money to insure its successful management. About noon one day he came to the Park, bringing in his hand a letter he had that morning received, informing him of a terri- bly disastrous fire which had occurred in a little neighboring factory village, causing heavy losses and much suffering of every kind. Some of the people 2D     "8    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, had been killed, and many injured by burning and scalding, and a touching and earnest appeal was made on their behalf to Mr. Halyburton. Dr. Blackstone, with his prompt kindness, had already driven to the scene of the disaster, and Nellie and Isabella, when they heard the piteous story, were moved with their usual generous pity and sympathy, and warmly promised to do all they could to help Mr. Halyburton-in rendering assistance. The little village was several miles beyond the suburbs of the city, but they were ready to drive there with him that very evening. Just before they were to start, however, Nellie found that her father was complaining, and required her attendance upon him at home; so she came to Isabella, saying: "Issy, dear, I shall have to let you go without me this time, I am sorry for it, but it can't be helped. I will help to prepare all that you wish to carry with you, and hope I shall be able to go next time." The large new double barouche was brought out accordingly for Isabella and Mr. Halyburton to go alone, with Patrick to drive them. An arrangement that must have been so 1elightful to the young minis- ter, that we fear he hardly thought on the way so entirely of the sufferings of those whom he was to visit, as he should have done. The evening was f   THE TWO BEQUESTS.      419 pleasant, but there was little of interest in the scenery they passed until they came to the long narrow cause- way which stretched across a wide marshy tract of ground; here the steep banks were covered with wild shrubs and flowers, and they got out of the carriage and walked along the edges of the causeway that Isabella might gather some flowers, while Patrick drove on slowly a little ahead of them. There was something about the place which re- minded Isabella of the hill-side at the Alte Schloss; she spied presently, as she thought, growing far down the bank, a little of that very kind of fern which she had brought from there, and with an eager impul- sive movement stooped over to pluck a piece. She had been walking on the very edge of the bank, not seeing how slight a foothold she had, and now her foot slipped and she would have fallen down the steep declivity, had not Mr. Halyburton instantly caught her with a firm hand and helped her to regain her footing. They both shuddered as they then dis- covered what a narrow treacherous ledge she had been walking on for so long, and thought of the danger she had just escaped, and after that they returned to the carriage. Mr. Halyburton looked pale and agitated; he had almost given utterance to the words of impassioned tendei ness, which had rushed unbidden     420    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, to his lips in that moment of peril and rescue. Neither of them said much now during the remainder of the drive to the village, but were each thinking and feeling none the less deeply for their silence. When they reached the poor devastated little settle- ment, however, and saw the numnerous blackened remains of little cottages that had been destroyed, every other thought and feeling gave way for the time to the object of their visit. They went from house to house distributing money, food, and clothing wherever it was needed, and speak- ing kindest words of sympathy to all. And so they brought comfort and hope, where but a little before, all had been gloom and darkness. And everywhere they heard blessings and praises bestowed upon the good young doctor, who had so skilfully dressed their injuries, and been "so kindly spoken" to them, as they said. There was a poor family of recent Irish immigrants, who had suffered more severely than nearly any of the others. The father had his right shoulder terribly crushed beneath some falling tim- bers;' and a little boy and girl, very scantily clad and most terribly burned, were lying on a hard bed of straw in a neighbor's cottage. The little girl was only three years old, and had sweet large blue eyes and long yellow curls. Isabella had her gently laid   THE TWO BEQUESTS       421 in her lap, and raising her head softly on her arm, persuaded her to take the medicine which her poor weary anxious mother had tried in vain to administer since the doctor left. It was some soothing drops, which were to be given every hour until she fell asleep. The little one ceased her moaning, and opened her eyes wide in surprise at the beautiful kind face which was bending so tenderly over her, and putting up her little unburned left hand to wipe away the great tear-drops, which were standing on those long black lashes, said, in a low whisper, "Don't ye cry now, an' I'll do all the likes ye tell me." After the drops were taken, Isabella persuaded her to swallow a cup of cool fresh cream; and then the child fell asleep, and Patrick was called to bring the carriage-cushions to make a better bed for her, which Was covered with Isabella's own large blanket-shawl, which she had brought in case the weather should turn cool before she returned home. She would not now have spared anything for herself which could have afforded comfort here to these poor people, so entirely was her whole heart absorbed in the desire she felt to help them. It would be hardly possible to describe Mr. Haly. burton's emotions, as, pausing amidst his own occupa- tions, he watched this noble, devoted, unselfish gill, 36     422    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, ministering with so much skill and kind wise thought- fulness to first one and then another case of suffering. At last the time came when they were compelled to leave; and after promising to come again very soon, they were bidding good-bye, when Patrick came to them, looking both awkward and shy, holding in one hand lis hat, while the other was placed sheepishy behind one of his ears. "Miss Isabella, an' av ye 'd plase not to bae offended with me, it's the greatest favor in the world I'd be asking ye for this viry avening," he stammered out. "Well, Pat, what is it? speak quickly, please, for it's getting late," Isabella said in reply. And now Pat began to blubber a little as he said: "Well? now, ye see there, Miss Isabella, is a-lyin' me poor countryman, all mashed up; and he's a strangher like in these parts, too, with niver a man to offer him a drink or to spake so much as a word of good brogue to him; and his wife's a been telling me that it's straight from me own ould county they've come. So now, ef ye 'd be so good, as the Lord knows ye always are, it's to be letting me stay here to-night with me poor countryman that I'd be asking ye. It ain't proper like, maybe, to be asking the young masther to drive the horses; but thin they are the viry gintlist, kindest creethers, mith jist a plenty o' good sperets in   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       423 'em, so a baby might drive 'em, for that matter-and times is so bad here with these poor folks, that, under the circumstances, ye'll have the goodness to excuse the liberty I have taken to ask so much." Isabella looked up at Mr. Halyburton, a little at a loss what reply to make. On the one hand, she found it difficult to refuse Pat's request; and on the other, she hardly liked to ask Mr. Halyburton to drive the carriage. He immediately, however, spoke up, quickly and eagerly, saying: "If you are not afraid to trust me, Miss Isabella, I'll drive you with the greatest pleasure; and as I am very much accustomed to riding and driving, I think I can promise to take you safely home." Accordingly Patrick Was allowed to stay, and they got into the barouche, now stripped of all its cushions. Isabella laughed merrily at the look of dismay on Mr. Halyburton's face as he found she would have only the bare boards to ride on. "I don't mind it in the least for this short distance; but perhaps I was uncivil not to ask your leave before I robbed you also of your cushion. But, as Pat would' say, under the circumstances, I am sure you 'll excuse the liberty I took," she said gayly. Of course, however, the inconvenience was nothing     424    HEAI VEiNWA RD LED; OR, to him; he was only afraid she would be very uncom- fortable, and would also miss the warm shawl she had left in the village, for it would be dark before they reached home, and the air was growing chilly. ile reproached himself for not having been more thought- ful of her, and not insisting upon leaving earlier. Nothing now, however, was to be done except to make all the haste they could; and soon they reached again the long, narrow causeway, and were almost in the middle of it, when they heard a strange bellowing sound, approaching them from the opposite end, and perceived that a large drove of immense Texan cattle was being rapidly driven to meet them. The drivers had neglected to blow their horn to warn approaching vehicles; and there they were about midway on the narrow embankment, with no possibility of turning the carriage. With a quick, yet light and gentle check upon the rein, Mr. Halyburton instantly stopped the horses, without startling them, and laying the reins in Isa- bella's hand, he said in a quiet voice: "Can you move softly to the middle of the seat, and hold these firmly?"Then added very gently but gravely: "The danger is certainly very great, Miss Isabella, but there is also a Mighty Helper very near us; we must lift up our hearts to Him."   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       425 In another second he was standing before the horses' heads, with his arm upon their necks, and talking coaxingly to them, his countenance looking perfectly tranquil and cheerful. Isabella was as white as a marble statue. She obeyed every injunction without uttering a single sound; nor did she look terrified, but smiled reassuringly whenever Mr. Halyburton's eyes were turned towards her. The great, dark, fearful, bellowing mass drew nearer and nearer, and then stopped and began to pile up, one on top of another, just in front of the horses, roaring and bellowing louder than ever. The horses trembled and snorted, and held back their ears; and for an instant it seemed as if it would be impos- sible to restrain them from dashing wildly against that frightful obstruction or down the steep embankment. Mr. Halyburton moved instantly, yet more directly in front of them; and while he still spoke softly to them, and with one hand caressed them, he reached out the other, in which he held the long carriage-whip, and moved it lightly before the front cattle in the drove; the motion was so easy as neither to frighten the horses nor create a violent stampede among the cattle, although it did put them in motion again. They broke, and many of them rushed or fell down the steep sides of the causeway, and perished; and 36*      426    '   HEAVENWARD LED; OR, others ran by rapidly but singly-for most fortunately the carriage had stopped in the widest spot on the causeway, leaving bare space on each side for them to pass, one at a time. An immense great creature, with long crooked horns, and wild glaring eyes, went so furiously by and so close to the carriage, that Isabella felt its breath upon her face, as it tossed back the light curls from her brow, and its great horn caught in the cover of the barouche, and tore a long slit in the side; happily the fabric tore very readily, or the vehicle might have been overturned; and Isabella understood now, too, why Mr. Halyburton had made her move to the mid- dle of the carriage, otherwise she might have been hurt by those frightful horns. After this, others passed, but they were not so large, and the first rush being over they went more quietly, and did no further damage. And from this most appalling danger they were at length safely delivered; the poor cattle being the only real sufferers. Many of them had perished, and their destruction had been a terrible sight to wit- ness. How fervently, during that little space of time, had those two loving hearts been lifted up in prayer, each for the other, unmindful in comparison of its own danger  When the peril was actually past, Mr. Halyburton's   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       427 head drooped upon the neck of the horse nearest him, and for a few seconds he was unconscious, from the violent reaction of feeling caused by his first transport of happiness at finding that Isabella had escaped un- harmed. Recovering himself, however, quickly, he drew near her with a face as white as her own almost, and taking both her hands in his, he kissed them again and again, saying: "Twice in one evening has God our Father saved this most precious, precious life! How can I ever find words to thank him enough? But he knows my heart, and he reads there what I can never express. Had he taken thee from me, what should I have done? But are you not frightened? Ah! had you not be- haved with such heroic fortitude and courage, there would have been no possibility of escape. To that, and to God's great mercy, I owe the safety of what is dearest to me on earth, thy precious life." Isabella remained motionless for some minutes, with her hands in his, and her pale face bowed silently upon her breast, which still heaved with long deep sighs of relief, after that terrible agony of dreadful suspense. Then she looked up in his face and smiled, half shyly, half confidingly, as she answered: "And your life too. You were in even greater danger than I, and had you perished how should I     428    HEA VENWARD LED; OR, have borne it? We will try to be as thankful as we ought for this great, great mercy." Mr. Halyburton's eyes were fixed with searching earn  ess upon that dearly loved face, and his heart leape within him as he drank in eagerly these pre- cious words of encouragement. Resuming then the reins, and taking again his seat by her side, he poured out in a torrent of burning, eloquent words, all the long, long cherished love of his heart. And when he heard that he, too, had been long remembered, recognised and loved, his as- tonishment and delight were unbounded. Long ex- planations followed about that eventful evening and morning in both their lives. When Isabella told him of her having overheard what passed between himself and his friend at the Alte Schloss, he was deeply pained, and looked at her with sorrowful tender pity, as he asked: "And you heard all those cruel, cruel words, about yourself? I have not forgotten one of them. Frank spoke thoughtlessly and in jest, repeating what he heard from others. But to think how his- words must have pained and wounded your tender delicate young heart! Not for all the world would I have had you suffer so." Isabella smiled, as she replied:   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       429 "And riot for all the world would I have missed hearing what I did. The pain he caused me was as nothing compared to the joy, strength, and comfort you gave me, when you replied to him. Ah! but for that, what a hopeless, embittered, unhappy girl I might have become! I have blessed you, and prayed for you, many a time since, and recalled your dear words of strength and comfort to help me when most sorely tried and tempted afresh. The only little green fresh spot that seemed at one time left in my hard-seared heart, was the recollection that you trusted me, and believed in me, and would perhaps miss me and grieve for me, should I not be acquitted as you promised on that great day when we should meet again; and so I tried to keep down all my stern pride, and to be what you would approve, womanly strong, but at the same time also womanly tender and merciful. I failed greatly, greatly, I know, and only half understood what you meant then, but still it did help me; and afterwards God mercifully took me by the hand, and taught me more fully what was required, and when that was done, or at least begun rather, he brought you back to me, and I have been so thankful and happy ever since. Love and Trust! how beauti- ful they make our lives, but I fear I shall never ex-     430    HEA VENWARD LED; OR, emplify them as dear Nellie does in her whole lovely life." She asked him who "Frank" was, and what had become of him.             L "He is George Stanley's brother, a fine, noble- hearted fellow; we were to have been partners had I continued at the bar. He is doing very well indeed, and is now married to a rich young widow. How I shall triumph over him when I write, as I soon shall, to tell him of my great happiness! He will be con- vinced then how true a prophet my heart was." "And who," asked Isabella, with a bright playful smile, "was the fair lady who preferred a richer rival?" "Oh! she was one of those fair ones whom I used sometimes to fancy that I loved, before I had learned, as I did at Baden-Baden, what that word really means. She was Miss Mary Champ, is now Mrs. Allston." And so they chatted now until they reached home; and never had a happier couple driven through the streets of - , than Isabella and Mr. Halyburton as they returned from their evening's excursion. They were met on the way by several acquaintances, and for the first time, strange to say, did the suspicion get abroad that they were lovers. It was past the usual tea hour when they reached home. Nelhe was wait-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       431 ing in the dining-room to give them theirs, and was beginning to feel anxious at their long detention on the way. Her father had gone to bed quite early, he was feeling so unwell; and George had been walking back and foi'th between the Park gate and the house ever since it began to grow dark, keeping a sharp lookout for the carriage, and now he poured out a tor- rent of questions, beginning before even Isabella had gotten out. "Where is Patrick? And how did the carriage get torn? What made you stay so long? Where in the world are all the cushions gone?" &c. &c. "Softly, softly, George," said Isabella. " We can't tell you everything in a single breath; but I will re- lieve your mind as quickly as possible. Patrick stayed to take care of an injured countryman of his, whom he found in the village. We were detained some time by meeting a very large drove of cattle on the cause- way; the carriage was torn by the horns of one of them, and the cushions were left in the village for some poor little children who were terribly burned, and had no bed but a very poor hard straw pallet. Now you can tell how it all happened to every one who is curious on the subject, while we go in to rest and be refreshed with some supper." So saying, she smilingly led the way into the dining-room.     432    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, Nelhe had not heard them when they arrived, and was reading when they entered the room. She raised her eyes, and read in the first glance at their radiant faces a certain indescribable something which was sufficient to reveal to her their happy secret. She greeted them with a warm, cordial smile of congratu- lation. And Mr. Halyburton then taking her hand exclaimed, in the joyous, eager tones of a blissful boy, "Can you read my good fortune in my face, Miss Nellie, or must I let you have three guesses? You will be my sister Nell one of these days, will you not? And give me your warmest congratula- tions, as being the most blessed and the happiest man in all the world!" Isabella laughed, and blushed as he glanced towards her, and said, "Except one other, Mr. Halyburton. Sister Nell knows one at least who is quite as happy and more richly blessed. Don't you, sister Nell?" And she kissed Nellie's blushing cheek. And Nellie warmly shook Mr. Halyburton's hand, and said she was glad for them both, and very sure they would be most happy and blessed in each other. And then as the lovers-took their tea, they told her all about their ride, their visit to the village, with all the touching scenes they had witnessed there; and, last of all, about the risk they had incurred in returning, from their encounter with the drove of cattle.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       433 Nelhe was horrified when she heard of the danger inlwhich Isabella's life had been, and put her hands over her eyes while they were telling her of the scene on the causeway, as if to shut out the fearful images they called up before her. "Oh, Issy, Issy, I am so truly, truly, thankful to God for having spared you! I-ow could I have borne it had any evil befallen you? What a merciful deliverance it was!" she said when the story was finished. Before Mr. Halyburton left, they asked him to read prayers for them. And he poured out from heart and soul an offering of thanksgiving to God for all His great mercies to them during that afternoon, and com- mended to His pitying care the poor afflicted people to whom in their time of trouble he had been sent to minister; and then that dear household was most ten- derly committed to His fatherly love and protection. When he had gone, Isabella told Ellen over more minutely all that had occurred during the ride, and finally told her, in part, of her painful experience at Baden-Baden, and of her meeting with Mr. Haly- burton there, and what they had ever since been to each other, without either of them knowing even so much as the name of the other. Nellie looked much astonished, as she asked, "Why, Issy, how could you possibly tell so- quickly and so 37       2E     434    HEAVENWARD LED; OR certainly that he was the same person whom you had seen but once, and after so long a time, too?" Isa- bella answered warmly, "Now, sister Nell, what a question that is to ask! My heart's intuition was quite strong enough to have made me very sure. But how could I have forgotten Mr. Halyburton, or failed to know him again from the whole world? Besides, is there another in all the world who can be compared to him?" Nellie laughed heartily, and said, "I 'm hardly pre- pared to answer that question, Issy; but I do wish Rose McPherson could see and hear you now. I think she would be convinced that you have managed to find out that your heart-is captured, and that not after such a terribly hard resistance either." When Mr. Halyburtoni reached the rectory, he fairly leaped up the staircase, taking two or three steps at one bound, until he reached his mother's door, where he stopped and knocked softly; but as soon as the answering summons, "Come in," was heard, he bounded to her side, and, seizing her in his arms, kissed her repeatedly, laughing and looking in every respect very unlike the late grave, courteous, scholarly young clergyman he appeared to most persons. His mother smiled and made only a slight resistance to his im- petuous caressing. When he had sobered down some- what, she laid her hand lovingly on his brow, and said:   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       435 "Well, my son, it is all right, I suppose, and you too are now sure of what I never doubted. She loves you as you deserve to be loved." "No, mother, that is not it. She loves me as I don't deserve, and never can deserve to be loved; but she loves me, and is not that enough to make me feel beside myself with joy?" he replied, in a tone which became grave now with the very intensity of his joy in telling his good news. "I do indeed rejoice with you, my son. It is a most happy and blessed thing to possess the true devoted love of a good, noble-hearted woman such as she is; and I am thankful that you know how to prize such a treasure justly. God bless you both, dear children that you are to me; for you know I have long felt a fond mother's love for her. Come, sit down, and tell me how it all came about at last, for I've thought you very slow in your proceedings," said the mother, look- ing deeply interested and pleased, and yet a little softened and subdued as past memories of her own life were recalled by this present happiness of his. Mr. Halyburton gave her a full account of the evening, and of the circumstances which had at length so thrown him off his guard as completely to dispel all his diffident doubts and fears, and make him forget everything but his great love and his eager anxiety     436    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, to gain some response to it from that beloved heart. When he told her of Isabella's having remembered meeting him and immediately recognised him again, she was quite as much astonished as Nelhe had been, and said: "Why, that is very singular! So then she is really the same, the very same child you/told me of. Sometimes, I must now confess to you, I have been very incredulous about that idea of yours, and thought you must be mistaken regarding her identity." "Mother! is it possible that it ever for an instant occurred to you that such a mistake could be made? That there could be another being in the whole world like Isabella Ashton?" exclaimed the son in almost indignant astonishment. "Oh, my son, excuse me, I really beg pardon for committing so grave an offence as to make such a mistake, and for not being quite so passionately in love as you are," his mother replied good humoredly, and looking very much amused at his ardor. "But," she continued, "I will say that I have never seen the other one, if there are two such beings in the world." Thank you for that, mother. I knew you could appreciate her as she deserves to be appreciated," he answered; and then renewed, with redoubled vigor, his caresses and endearments. It seemed impossible for Mr. Halyburton to gain   THE TWO BEQUEST S       437 a personal interview with Captain Ashton, who shunned more and more the society of good and respectable people. So he was compelled to write him a note, telling him how matters stood between his daughter and himself. And if a thunder-bolt had fallen at the feet of the father he could not have been more astounded. He had frequently heard of the young clergyman and his mother, and had quietly taken it for granted that they were man and wife; this would have entirely relieved him of all appre- hension respecting Mr. Halyburton's frequent visits to his house, had he ever regarded it as a possible thing that his beautiful, proud, queenly daughter would even think of marrying a poor clergyman. He was lost in bewilderment and astonishment as he reflected upon the contents of the letter, and knew that he was utterly powerless to prevent the marriage of his daughter should things be as they were repre- sented by Mr. Halyburton; and so he was very thoroughly miserable and uncertain what to think or what to do. He came at length, one evening, into the room where Nellie and Isabella were seated with their books and their work, holding Mr. Halyburton's note in his hand, looking very much disturbed and perplexed, Raising his eyes from the note, after reading it over again, he said: 37*     438    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, "Why, Queen, this is a strange letter I have received from that young clergyman-Halyburton. I had thought he was a married man, and had his wife here with him." "The Mrs. Halyburton, of whom perhaps you have heard, papa, is his mother," Isabella answered quietly. "Ah, is that so? Well, how is it about all this thing that he writes me? Did you know of his writing, and is it all tru'?" "I knew of his writing, and without seeing his letter, I know I may safely say, it is every word true, papa, for Mr. Halyburton is utterly incapable of false- hood!" The father looked quite aghast, and in a voice of coaxing entreaty asked: "And you really are going to desert your old father? can you love him so much, and your father so little, as to be willing to go away with this stranger?" "I love Mr. Halyburton, papa, and certainly in- tend to marry him. I should wrong myself, and, worse than that, should wrong him by refusing to do so, loving each other as we do, and feeling sure that God has ordered our way for us and intends us for each other. Leaving all others, you know, I am bound   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       439 to cleave only unto him, for our hearts are already united." "Oh, dear, and what shall I do, forsaken and deserted as I am by my own children?" "There is no occasion for you to feel deserted or forsaken, papa; wherever my home may be you will always be welcome to a share of it; and I know that I may say the same also in'Mr. Halyburton's name. We will do all in our power to make you happy with us if you wish to come and live beneath our roof. Or, if not, here is dear Nell and the doctor, if you would but consent to their marriage; they could live here at the Park with you. .And Dr. Blackstone, as you well know, would be not only a kind and dutiful son, but a judicious counsellor and friend, who would look after your business affairs and keep everything straight and in order for you in Charlie's absence. I do wish, papa, you could, for your own sake as well as theirs, withdraw your opposi- tion and be fully reconciled to their marriage. I should .leave dear Nell with so much more comfort then, feeling that I was not needed half so much by her, and you would be so much happier yourself," she replied, very gravely and earnestly. The captain looked also grave enough; he seemed afraid to deny her anything, and yet could not make     "O    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, up his mind to yield this point about Nellie and the doctor, so he made no answer, but abruptly rose and left the room. The news of this engagement, when it became gene- rally known, created great astonishment and interest in the community of ---  , to whom both parties were so well known, and by whom they were now more extensively discussed than ever, each person seeming to have a very decided opinion to express on the subject, and to have the interest and welfare of the couple very much at heart. Altogether, however, public sentiment was decidedly favorable as regarded the eligibility of the match on each side. Charlie wrote warm and affectionate congratulations, and was much gratified at his sister's choice, though, on his next visit home, he could not forbear playfully re- minding her of the distaste she had once expressed for the ministerial brotherhood. "Ah! but Issy," he concluded by saying, 'I plainly saw some time ago that your sentiments had undergone a marvellous change since our conversation together on that subject." "And were not your arguments, sir, sufficiently strong and logical to bring me round to your opinion, I should like to know?" she answered in the same spirit. -   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       441 Florence was enchanted when she found that Isa- bella and the "beautiful unknown" were identically the same individual. "It is as charming and roman- tic as any story I ever read, Mr. Halyburton, and I always thought Isabella would make a splendid hero- ine for a romance," she exclaimed. Mrs. Blackstone, too, was greatly pleased, but said she had been "very stupid not to see at once how well suited they were to each other." The old doctor, with his customary dry humor, wrote Mr. Halyburton a grave letter of thanks for the exemplary manner in which he had performed his pastoral duties to the flock intrusted to his charge, and especially for his tender care for the "young lambs." The months passed happily on, and in a few weeks, now, the dear good old minister and his wife were ex- pected back-the former very much improved in health, and then very shortly after that the marriage would take place. Mr. Halyburton had received numerous calls to large city churches, but had decided for the present to take a little village charge, where he would have an opportunity of making the proper degree of preparation required for a larger sphere. Isabella and himself both looked forward with pleasure to living among plain, simple people, and doing all the good in ,l     "2    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, their power to the humble and the poor around them. Soft fleecy clouds of snowy lace and gauze were being prepared for the approaching bridal, and Isabella, in the fulness of her pure, unclouded, happy content, felt as if there was no desire or wish of her heart un- satisfied, and that the bright world in which she was now living could scarcely be the same which had once seemed so full of darkness and evil, and so empty, false and hollow, that in very weariness of heart she had longed to leave it. She thought once again of those strange forebodings of evil which had come so startlingly and darkly over her spirit many months back, and been then again as suddenly and strangely dispelled without fulfilment, unless that perilous ride over the causeway had been the danger and trouble which they pointed to. But then her heart quickly responded-what evil was there in that? Had it not rather drawn her more closely than ever to the be- loved of her heart? And even had they perished there together, would it not have been translation from a happy earth to a more blissful heaven? Whether she was right, however, in supposing that the clouds and shadows were never more to cross the sunlight in her path, we have yet to see-for behind the impenetrable ve'l of the future no human eye may glance.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       443 CHAPTER ELEVENTH. THE DUEL. 8...E have hitherto forborne to shock and pain the reader by introducing him to the scenes and associates of Captain Ashton's daily life during the three years which have but barely passed since his return to his own country and to his own home. We must now, however, glance for a moment back through that dark and dreary vista of worse than wasted faculties, time, and opportunities, and come to the sad and final result. There is no class of individuals so cosmopolitan as the abandoned, reckless blackleg and gambler. Nor is there any chain so hard to break as that of evil and corrupt habit; nor any tyranny so relentless as that of Satan and sin. Very soon after Captain Ashton's return home, he began to meet occasionally, at a street corner or else- where, some of his old acquaintances and former corn panions; and, in spite of those good resolutions with which he had thought himself so fully armed, he was drawn down again even deeper and deeper into the filthy pool of vice. Creeping out, at first stealthily,     "4    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, and after dark, and then more openly and frequently, he had sought out those dens and wretched haunts to which the voices of his comrades and the still more alluring voice of his evil nature so loudly called him. Wretched man that he was, tortured by remorse, and continually appealed to by the better influences around him-his sweet innocent young children, and the remembrance of his sainted wife, with her holy counsels and loving entreaties-yet, unable to resist the stronger impulse to evil, down, down he plunged headlong! He had long since turned, with its face to. the wall, his daughter's framed copy of her mother's "Bequest," unable to endure the sharp remorseful stings of con- science which they occasioned him. Strange to say, the voice of God's Spirit was not yet dead within him, and though so long he went on grieving and resisting it, still many a startling cry did it awaken in his wretched heart, sometimes even in the midst of some scene of reckless mirth and revelry, when, to outward observation, he seemed wholly absorbed in the pleasure and wild excitement of the hour. At last a crisis in his life approached. Unexpect- edly he met again at the gaming-table his former German acquaintance, the old red-faced Baron Von Starchei, a desperate gambler, drunkard, and duellist,   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       445 whose proudest boast was the number of "affairs of honor," as he called it, in which he had been engaged, and his accuracy as a marksman. As soon as he recognised Captain Ashton, he approached him angrily, and reminded him of an insignificant debt due him, which the captain, in his hasty departure, after that disgraceful night in which he had so grossly outraged the feelings of his young daughter, had en- tirely forgotten. The baron refused to take the money now, or to accept any explanations which were offered him; but called Captain Ashton a base liar, scoundrel, and cheat, who had insultingly scorned his proposal of marriage with his daughter, after first lying to him, and cheating him into the belief that he would enter into negotiations with him on the subject-taking flightand robbing him at the same time of his money on the very day arranged for him to receive his an- swer. Nothing, in short, would now satisfy the blood- thirsty old creature but an opportunity of revenging himself by seeking to take the life of his enemy. A few cold efforts to effect a reconciliation were Imade by "friends," as 'hey called themselves, of the parties. But the baron rersisted in his demand for a nieeting in single combat, and so it must be.. One week was allowed for the necessary preparations on each side. They were to ge to a spot a few miles 38     "6     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, from the city. "Seconds" were chosen, and all things were rapidly made ready. During that one short week what terrible anguish filled the heart of that wretched father! And what solemn and sobering reflections passed through his mind! He took no stimulating drinks, and seldom left the house, except in the afternoon for a short time, in company with a strange man, who came to see him, and was always closeted with him in his pri- vate sitting-room. When they went out together they carried a small parcel, and walked to a little piece of woodland belonging to the Park, but at a considerable distance from the house. George, whose eyes and ears were always on the alert for every sight and sound, frequently heard what he supposed was the report of a gun, and thought his father had suddenly become a great sportsman. He was tempted, more than once, to ask to be allowed to go with his father; but, observing how grave and stern Captain Ashton looked, and having been often rebuked already for his forwardness, he restrained himself. Every night now the captain came and sat for awhile after tea in the parlor with his daughters, which they observed with pleasure and gratification, and made unusual exertions to cheer and entertain him; his countenance was more than usually grave   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       447 and thoughtful, but his manner was much softened, and no longer complaining and peevish towards Nellie, although he entered but little into the conversation which went on around him. All these changes were carefully and hopefully noted by his daughters as en- couraging indications. Isabella had ceased to think his case too desperate to admit of hope for his amendment, realizing, as she had not once done, the lamentable state to which such a giving up and abandonment would reduce him. Something even of Nellie's soft- ness and pity and hopefulness for him had by degrees crept into her thoughts and feelings. And Nelhe was strengthened and encouraged as she thankfully re- flected upon all these signs, as she hoped they might prove, that the germ of grace was budding and springing up at last in his heart. With increased ardor and devotion she poured out her fervent suppli- cations on his behalf, and was ready to weep with joy as she sanguinely pictured to herself the pleasing change which would come over their whole lives should this, her heart's most earnest petition, be granted her, and her father, her dear father, be at length found sitting at Jesus' feet, "clothed and in his right mind."  That last week, however, soon came to its close; and Nellie, on its last night, had retired to her own     "8    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, room, after bidding her father her customary sweet good-night, observing, as she did so, that there were tears in his sad eyes, and that his voice had trem- blingly responded to hers. After a while he came and knocked gently at her door. She was, at that very moment, on her knees praying for him. When she answered his knock, he asked her, in an agitated whisper, to follow him to his sitting-room, and closing the door after them, sank into a large arm-chair, rest- ing his face on his hand, while great tear-drops rolled slowly and silently down his pale sallow cheeks. He remained for some moments without speaking. Nellie drew a low stool close beside him, and taking in her own his other hand, which hung limp and nerveless over the arm of his chair, tenderly stroked and kissed it, glancing from time to time timidly and anxiously up at his face, waiting for him to break the silence. And God was witness to the prayers which meanwhile were poured out from her very soul in his behalf. At length he turned his face full upon hers; and laying his hand fondly upon her head, while he gazed fixedly into her eyes, he asked, in a broken voice: "My daughter, can you really love your poor wretched father so much?" ' Surely, dearest father, you cannot doubt my love, can you?" she asked, with a sweet, fond assuring smile.   THE TWO BEQUESTS.      449 "Ah! no, I have no reason to doubt it, except that I am so entirely, entirely unworthy of it. Why do you love me, child?" he said. "Ah! dear father, have I not told you that God first put the love into my heart, and then my dear mother taught me to foster and to cherish it; and how it sweetens our lives, dear father, to love each other! You love me, too, your child, my father, do you not?" "I do, I do, my child! Always believe that, al- though I have not seemed to love you as I do; and now let me thank you for your love and patience and goodness. God will reward you for it all. And you may not much longer be charged with the heavy bur- den of caring for your poor unworthy father. Sooner than you think the cloud may be lifted from your young life. But you will not hate my memory when I am gone, will you? and though I perish mis- erably, you will try to believe that I was drawn un- willingly into my last evil act, will you not? I would have avoided it, if I could, and I will now meet my doom, without seeking to revenge myself, but try- ing to trust in Him who you have told me, and who your dear mother has often told me in years gone by, is infinite in mercy and compassion." Startled by these strange words, Nellie, with a white, 38*       2F     450    HEAV ENWIARD LED; OR, scared face, wild even in its look of bewildering fear, shudderingly asked: "What can you mean, my poor, poor father, by these fearful words?" He looked at her, with a countenance expressing the deepest commiseration and pity, mingled with bit- ter remorse,-as in reply he asked: "Can you, my poor little bruised flower, bear to hear the dark story of my sinful life, and the terribly just punishment which is about to follow it?" The frail trembling child had an awfully clear con- ception that some fearful revelation was now about to be made, which, in her own strength, she was utterly unable to bear. Pausing for a few moments, there- fore, with her hands over her eyes, she lifted up her awe-stricken heart to her Father in Heaven, and then, though her lips and cheeks looked perfectly bloodless in their whiteness, she answered in a low, but calm steady voice: "Father, God will help me to hear anything which it will comfort your poor heart to tell me. Fear not to speak, now, and who knows but that the very tell- ing of it may make the evil, which you dread, disap- pear like an ugly phantom of the night?" These last words she added, as if trying to awaken hope and cheer in her own heart as well as his. She   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       45 had never seen his countenance and manner what they were that night; though grieved and sad and heart- broken, as it seemed, he was dignified and very gen- tle, while his language was far more elevated, refined, and tender, than it was wont to be; and in the midst of all her fear and sorrow for him, she felt that there was comfort in this. "Sit down, my child, beside me. It is a long, shameful story, unfit for your ears; still it is best you should know the whole truth, and be prepared for the coming evil." He moved as he said this to the sofa, and drew her down beside him, and then with his face partly averted and full of deepest shame, he told her all about his early life; how he had long been the cause of grief and sorrow and shame to those who loved him best, and whom it was his duty to have honored and shielded and comforted and loved. "All this, my child, came from too much indulgence- and, on my part, too much selfishness and unrestrained self-will,' he said sadly; then, after pausing for some moments, as if to gain courage to go on, he told her of his former intercourse with Baron Von Starchie, and how he had exposed Isabella, in their travels, to mortification and constant vexation, because he had grown so debased as not to be able to think of, or to     452     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, realize, the position in which he placed her, and in his selfish love and pride could not deny himself the pleasure of showing her off, and boasting of her beauty, and her many gifts and graces, amongst his associates-so unworthy even to hear her name men- tioned in their presence.           ; "Ah, yes, she was my idolized Queen! I don't think she knows how true, almost passionate, my love for her has been; but you, my sweet neglected little one, have been my tender loving angel of mercy; and you do not know how often your purity and good- ness, especially your unwearying, patient love and pity, has made my heart smite- me with sorrow and remorse. "To-morrow morning I go to meet my enemy, who thirsts for my blood; but remember I shall not attempt to take his life. I shall stand, if I can, like a man, and receive my death as coming from the hand of a most justly offended God, who will no longer bear with me on the face of the earth, to tor- ment and weary those who were given me to protect and cherish and bless. My poor weak nature is incapable, I believe,'of resisting evil; and amendment of life has seemed impossible for me." He looked down as he ceased speaking, for the young head had drooped and sunk upon his shoulder, and he knew by   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       453 the blanched cheeks, and parted breathless lips, that his child had fainted. Laying her gently down he applied the necessary restoratives, and how keenly and bitterly he reproached himself all the time for  3 subjecting her to such a trial! "My poor little one!" he murmured, as he bent over her, "has your wretched father indeed smitten you so sorely?  God help you, my darling! You will soon be, relieved from the scourge with which he has allowed you tp be inflicted."  Nellie, hearing these last words, slowly opened her eyes, and seeing his sorrowful face bent lovingly over hers, she clasped him tightly round the neck, and said: "Don't say that, dear, dear father! I love you most tenderly, and should be deeply grieved were you taken from me by any means. But indeed you must not fulfil your purpose in this matter. Come out bravely and firmly, and refuse to meet this man, because it is sinful and wrong. Mind not the opinion of men in this matter. What is man's judgment compared to that of the Almighty God?  Be only afraid of Him! How will you meet him when called into his presence, whom in the very last act of your life you have dared to disobey and offend? It is this, dearest father, which has so overpowered me--I cannot bear the thought of it-anything but this! I can only     454    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, give you up to Him when he calls you to join our dear mother in her happy heavenly home.  Now, dear father, resolve, this very moment, to be a Christian man, and show yourself, in this terrible affair, to be one. You must, my father, indeed you must, decline this meeting!" He shook his head with grave sorrowful determina- tion, and replied: "My poor child, alas for us both; it cannot be! as I have sowed so must I reap! I should have avoided such company and not have led the life I have, if I would have escaped its natural and just consequences. Listen to me now while I, who have so grieved you, give all the comfort I can to your poor heart. During this past week I seem to have lived my whole life over, and have been able to look clearly back into the past, and forward into the future. Life, for its own sake, I care not for, but for your sake, and for that of my other children, I would if possible have died another death; nor would I add another sin to the long black list already set against my name in the book of doom.  But I have brought this end upon myself, and must bear it as the punishment God has sent. I shall go and stand before my enemy, and I know that his shot will be fatal, unless the Almighty should, as by a miracle, order it another way, for this man's hand   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       455 has never missed its mark; but still you see God will decide it-He is omnipotent, and can order and direct the end as he will. I shall try to feel that the Baron is but the executioner of his sentence, be it for life or for death. There is a voice within me that tells me it will be death, and for this I have been striving to prepare myself. To refuse this meeting would not save me, for the Baron would then feel justified, according to his code of honor, in shooting me down wherever he should meet me, and I should only perish more ignominiously and basely, appearing to be afraid of and to shun death; for who would ever believe that Richard Ashton was prompted by any other than base cowardly motives? They would even scoff at the name of religion used by such a man with such a motive as they would attribute to me. And my name, branded with coward- ice and covered with fresh infamy, would be handed down to my innocent children. But men always respect a man who knows how to meet death like a man, whatever his previous life may have been; and I trust I shall in some small degree retrieve the past by this last act in the drama of my disgraced and infamous life. "Now, my child, bid me a last good-night, and go rest thy poor weary head and close those heavy     456    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, eyelids. You will need all your strength and forti- tude to-morrow. I will pray for pardon; will call upon him who heard the dying thief, and throw myself. utterly wretched and undone as I am, upon his mercy and pity. Don't tell your sister of all this until I have left the house, then ask for me her love and her forgiveness. Oh! how cruelly I have wronged her! I could not bear to meet her now, for even this last act will bring to her more sorrow than to all the rest of you; for her dear honored name will be made public through it, I fear, although I have done, and will do, all I can do to prevent it, It kills me to think of seeing my dear child angry with me now. She does not love me, Nellie, as you do, and I need love and pity now, not indignation however just. You are not angry, you are sorrowful and loving, God bless you! Now, good-night. Don't put on any mourning clothes for me when I am gone. Forget me as soon as you can, but don't despise and hate my memory." Nellie clung sobbingly to him, and at last, after vainly trying several times to speak, she said: "At least let me watch with you, my father, through this dark hour. I could not sleep or rest were I to leave you, and I cannot tear myself away." It was now past midnight, and she made him lay   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       457 his head upon her lap, and pressing her hand fondly on his brow or smoothing back his iron-gray locks from his temple, she sat speaking soft comforting words to him about the infinite love and compassion of the dear Redeemer, and the full atonement he has wrought. And what blessed, soothing, and healing power, too, her Sweet words had for his wounded spirit! It was God who gave her the strength so far to conquer the agony of her own heart, and to think only of comforting and helping him; and doubtless he also inspired her with words and thoughts best suited to the case of the poor lost sheep, who, at the eleventh hour, was seeking admission through the gates of mercy. It wanted about an hour before the day would begin to dawn, when the father, rising from his recum- bent posture, said: "Pray for me, my child, aloud, and then leave me. Each human soul must meet its Judge alone, you know; and between the soul and its Maker a work must be done, which even the dearest cannot share, and may not witness.' Together they knelt and prayed for mercy upon both body and soul. Nellie prayed that the precious life might, if possible, be spared, and be henceforth consecrated to God's service; but that both might 39     458    HEA VENWARD LED; OR, from! their hearts be taught to say now and always. "Thy will alone be done," and submit without a mur- mur to their Father's loving, wise decree, be that what it might. And then they parted-she hardly knew how; but she was in her own room, and soon again on her knees. It was such a comfort-nay, all the com- fort she had-to hold God's hand, as it were, to stay with him, and keep telling him over and over again all her sorrow and her weakness. She rose after a while, and going to her writing-desk, wrote a short but most touching note to Dr. Blackstone, telling him of the sad night she had passed, and piteously begging him to come and take her with him to the place ap- pointed for the duel. Her father had refused her earnest entreaty to be allowed to accompany him thither; but she could not bear to think of his being hurt, with no one who loved him at hand to minister to him. And then, too, with a fond woman's pertinacity, she clung to the hope that she might yet be able to prevent the meeting, if only she could see the other parties, whom she would entreat, if need be, on her bended knees, to lay aside their murderous wrath and revengeful anger, and spare the life of her dear father. Having sealed and directed her note, she laid it on the table to send as soon as it should be light, and then again sunk down   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       459 apon her knees, burying her face in the cushions of the easy-chair, which stood by her bed, but in a moment the weary eyelids closed, and she, like the dis- ciples of old, slept for very heaviness of heart. The first red morning ray was just beginning to tinge the eastern sky, when she started up at the sound of carriage-wheels driving away. Rushing down immediately to the front-door, she was just in time to catch one more look at her father's pale and worn but tranquil face, as the carriage turned an angle in the long drive leading to the gate. He saw her, and smiled sadly as he looked at her from the window. Patrick was standing on the last step, watching the carriage as it drove away; he had been told the night before by the captain to be in readiness to open the gates, as he was expecting a gentleman to call for him to go on a short journey with him. Nellie gave him her note, and entreated him to mount his horse with- out delay, and take it as quickly as he possibly could to Dr. Blackstone, and if the doctor should not be at home, to find him, and be sure and deliver the note at once. Then she went to her father's room; there, on the bed, which had not been pressed by his form, lay the framed copy of "A Mother's Dying Bequest," and on     "O     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, it a slip of paper, containing these few lines: "Not in vain, I trust, my dear, dear wife, was all your life of suffering patience on my account; not in vain your prayers and your trust. Since you and my sweet child could so love and so forgive, may I not hope for mercy, love, and forgiveness from the All Merciful One?  I trust I shall soon see you, dearest. Fare- well, my children, all of you. Take warning by my example, my poor little boy. Thank God, my other children need no counsel and no warning from me. I only crave their forgiveness, and- beg them to be- lieve that I love and pray for them." And underneath this were two hastily-written, blot- ted lines, translated from the Latin: ' The nearer I approach death, methinks the plainer I see land. For, at length, after a rough, hazardous voyage, I am about to come into port." With a pale, tearful face, and trembling limbs, Ellen then went to Isabella's room, who started up as soon as she saw her, and cried out: "What is it, Nell, my swe'et, poor little sister? Tell me quickly what has happened; something dreadful, I know!" Nellie then told her as quickly and as gently as she could as much as she thought she could bear to hear so suddenly of the terrible story, taking pains   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       461 to conceal for the present the cause of the encounter. Isabella was completely overpowered at first. It seemed such a strangely fearful thing! Then she asked Nellie why she had not immediately called her, that she, too, might have tried to prevent their father from going. Nellie explained that this was impos- sible, because he had forbidden it, not wishing to grieve her again. Many times had Isabella formerly said to herself, in hopeless sadness, that all her love for her father was so effectually deadened that nothing could possi- bly revive it. But, ah! how quickly it all now came rushing back in a great swollen tide upon her heart, sweeping away every bitter thought and recollection. With the same gushing flow of fond tender clinging love, had it been possible, she would again have thrown herself upon his neck as she had done when first he came to her in Ireland; and, with all the dark spots in his character covered and hidden from her view, have pressed him to her heart, and told him how gladly she would die in his place. In her generous magnanimity she exaggerated her own deficiencies, and forgot all his; and blamed only herself, not him, for the coldness and estrangement which had grown up between them.  Poor man, if he could have 39*     "2    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, realized how much she still loved him, how strange and yet how comforting he would have thought it. After letting her weep for some time in silence, Nellie said at length, "Come, now, dear Issy, make haste and dress, please, and let us try to be calm, and think what there is for us to do, and how it shall be done best. I have sent to beg Dr. Blackstone to come and take me after father as quickly as possible. We will drive with all speed and may overtake him; and who knows but that yet I may stop this fearful deed. At any rate I must be near him, even should the worst come to pass. Charlie should also be sent for- can you attend to that?" Immediately Isabella was calm and steady, though very very white and faint. "I can; and will do anything, dear Nell, which you think wisest and best, only I too must go to him. I want his forgiveness and his blessing so much!" she said, earnestly. Patrick had been startled and alarmed by Ellen's pale face and agitated manner when she gave him the note for Dr. Blackstone; and, good creature that he was, made almost incredible speed in saddling his horse, and then like lightning galloped into the city, and down the street leading to the young doctor's office, where he now also lodged. Leaping from his horse at the door, he pulled the night-bell violently,   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       463 and its ringing peal came out with startling clearness upon the still morning air. The doctor had been up most of the night with an ill patient, and was now fallen into a deep heavy slumber, so that even this ! loud ringing did not immediately rouse him. Patrick, therefore, commenced shouting out his name very loudly, and calling to him for God's sake to wake up and come at once, while at the same time he pounded heavily with his fists upon the door. And by these combined efforts of lung and muscle, soon succeeded in making himself heaid. Dr. Blackstone recognised his voice directly, and correctly surmised at once, that he brought him a sudden summons to the Park. Springing up, he was in a second at the window, which he threw open and called out to know what was the matter. "Och, sir, sure I thought ye 'd niver wake at all. I've made amost noise enough for the Judgment Day. Come, sir, for the Lord's sake, jist as quick as iver ye kin. There's life and death in it some how, but I don't jist know where. Only Miss Nellie looked like nothing at all, but her own viry ghost, when she tould me to come, by all the powers, and fetch ye at once. And here's a letter, sir 'll tell ye all the rest, av ye 'd plase come down and get it. Will ye ride my baste, and let me follow along with the buggy, sir?'             ..     "4    HEAVEN'WARD LED; OR, "Yes, yes!" said the doctor, hardly comprehending what he was asked, and hurried down to get the letter, which he almost snatched from Patrick's hand, when he had reached the door, telling him to go round the back way and wake up his man, and tell him to get his buggy ready immediately; and then he proceeded with eager haste to read Nellie's sad and startling note. Strong brave man as he was, his heart was as tender and gentle as a woman's; and when he pic- tured to himself Nellie's anguish, he fairly sobbed out: "My little, gentle, stricken lamb! My sweet, crushed, yet spotless lily! Why is it that so much sorrow must fall upon your poor young heart?" With greatest haste he then made his preparations, at the same time thinking and planning for the unfor- tunate household of his dear one quickly, yet calmly and wisely. When Patrick again appeared, he handed him back Nellie's note, on the back of which he had written, "Telegraph at once for Charlie, and then come to the Park," and told him to take it quickly to the Rectory, and give it to Mr. Halyburton. His own buggy being also ready now, he declined Pat's horse, but leaping into the buggy, drove with full speed to the Park, arriving there sooner than even Ellen and Isabella, in their impatient anxiety, thought it possi- ble he could do. In a few hasty words, he told them   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       465 what he had already done, and what tIlans he had formed, and earnestly begged Nellie to let him go first to her father, and then return for her should there be any occasion for her to go also. "No, no!" she answered in a tone of pleading, touching entreaty. "Please take me at once! It might be too late then." He had been greatly shocked at her appearance; her face wavs so perfectly colorless, and there were great dark circles under her eyes, and the nervous, trembling agitation of her manner was so different from her usual gentle, quiet composure. He bowed his head to hides the strong emotion which almost overpowered and unmanned him as she looked so im- ploringly at him, and replied in a voice that trembled almost as much as her own: "I will, my darling. I will most assuredly do any- thing you wish, and would take you this very moment, but you look already so pale and so exhausted, that I fear you will be ill." She only shook her head, and tried to answer firmly: "I can bear it." He saw it was useless to try to dissuade her, and only insisted that she should first take some little refreshment, and promised that there should then be not another moment's delay. Isabella felt that it was 2a     "6    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, Nellie's privilege to go first, and she had made every preparation for her sister's journey, and now tried to hurry her departure, making old Mammy Polly carry to the ddctor and herself the hasty little breakfast she had prepared for them with her own hands; and while they were choking down a few mouthfuls she busily employed herself in packing into the boot of the buggy Nellie's carpet-bag and the stores of wine, clothing, and delicacies which she had gotten ready with the greatest speed in case they should be needed for her father. When all was ready, the young doc- tor took Nellie up as gently as if she had-indeed been a crushed flower, and placed her in the buggy; one moment more, and he was by her side, driving as fast as his horse could carry him, in the direction taken by Captain Ashton about an hour before. With swimming eyes, Isabella stood on the door-steps, watching them until they were out of sight; then, with a desolate, sorrowful heart, turned to go into the house. Captain Ashton and his "friend" had meanwhile driven furiously to the appointed spot, the captain not wishing his opponent to be first on the ground. Not for all the world would he now have lingered or loi- tered as if afraid to meet his foe, for he had fully made up his mind to meet death heroically, and was   THEITWO BEQUESTS.       467 jealously anxious to avoid failing in the least par- ticular, or tarnishing in the slightest degree the lustre of the only action in his whole life upon which his family and friends might possibly look with some de- gree of pride and satisfaction. It was a strange awakening which had taken place in his whole being from the hour that he had fully realized the end to which his own inbridled, vicious life had brought him. Every blessing that a bountiful Providence could bestow hacd been showered in profusion upon him from his cradle to this very moment, and every opportunity and encouragement to amendment he had enjoyed, while year after year he had not onlyfor- saken the high and honorable standard of moral in- tegrity which his long line of ancestry had established for themselves, but had gone astray from even the paths of common decency and decorum, and aban- doned himself wholly to the indulgence of his evil propensities and habits. Now, with no one to blame but himself, this was to be the wretched end of it all! and he could only marvel at the wonderful forbear- ance which had spared him so far. In the short week which followed, and which was devoted to earnest preparation for death, he became a thoroughly transformed individual, the change be- coming apparent towards the close, even in his gait     "8    HEAVENWARD LED; OR,: and step. A spark of the noble ambition of the old race seemed to be at length struck from the callous and deadened manhood of his nature. Feeling that regrets and lamentations over the irrevocable past and the inevitable future were alike useless, the strongest earthly aspiration of his heart now was to die at last like an Ashton, calmly, bravely, and generously; while, at the same time, like a Christian, humbly, penitently, yet hopefully; he should cling to the blood-stained Cross as his, the only anchor for his otherwise lost and perishing soul. During their ride to the appointed place of meeting, he spoke but little; his manner, however, was dignified and easy, and his voice steady and calm; not without pain and humiliation could he now look at the man who was seated familiarly by his side, and called him- self his "friend,'"-a low foreigner, no proper associate for a gentleman at any time; yet so long had he con- sorted with such people that now, in the hour of his extremity, it was to such he had been obliged to have recourse; and he accepted his present companionship as only a very small part of the retribution so justly his due. Two surgeons yere to be upon the ground; and these, with the other principal and his second, were all who would be near him when he should be called   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       469 to yield up his spirit to his Maker. Still he felt neither faltering nor fear; but, hoping that his peace was made, he committed himself and his cause to the just and righteous yet All-Merciful One. And, when the appointed moment arrived, stepped with head erect and with noble air and carriage into his place. The lots having been cast, the first shot was declared his; and at the given signal he turned his back upon his foe and fired into the air, then quietly facing him again, received his shot with unflinching composure. A murmur of mingled surprise and admiration had proceeded from the little group who witnessed his behavior; but even this did not movqe the heart of the murderous old Baron further than to make his hand tremble slightly as he fired. The ball did not quite pierce the centre of his enemy's heart, but still it made a deadly wound. As soon as the surgeons had pronounced this to be the case, the Baron went through the form of approaching his victim to shake hands and be reconciled. The wounded man looked at him with a ghastly smile, and said 'feebly, "I freely for- give you, Baron; may God as freely forgive us both," and then became unconscious. The Baron and the two seconds hastened with all speed from the spot, to escape the officers of justice; and when they were off, the surgeons procured 40     470    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, help and bore Captain Ashton to a neighboring farm- house, giving out that ho had been accidentally wounded by his own weapon. Dr. Blackstone and Nellie were a mile or so from the place of the encounter, when the carriage contain- ing the baron and his friends passed them like light- ning. As soon as she heard the approaching wheels, Nellie, fearing to look out, hid her eyes, not knowing what terrible spectacle might meet them. One look into the rapidly-flying vehicle revealed the truth to Dr. Blackstone's mind; but he tried to comfort and encourage Nellie, speaking as tenderly and as hope- fully as he possibly could. She, however, knew all the tones of his voice so well that she soon understood he was only trying for her sake to speak cheeringly, and made a great effort to be calm and firm, and to show that she was able to bear even the worst, as she had promised she would do. In answer to Dr. Blackstone's inquiries, the house to which the bleeding, unconscious form had been car- ried was pointed out, and thither they immediately proceeded. He procured a private sitting-room for Nellie, where he left her a few moments while he went to see what was the exact condition of her father, using great precautions in all his proceedings to avoid exciting suspicion; for he felt the importance of allow-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       471 ing the other parties to escape, since their arrest would only have made more sure the exposure of Isabella's name to public scandal and gossip, and might even have necessitated her appearance as witness in court, which would have been most painfully trying to her feelings, without, after all, insuring the punishment of the criminal. He soon satisfied himself that Captain Ashton's recovery was impossible. Nor could he either be removed to his own home, although it was uncertain how many hours or even days he might linger. He therefore wrote a hasty note to this effect to Mr. Italy- burton, and hired a messenger to take it to Ashton Park. The wound being dressed, the two surgeons were glad to leave their patient in Dr. Blackstone's hands and return to the city. He revived for a few moments when some stimulant was administered, and Nellie now came to take her place by his bedside; but, too soon to be aware of her presence, he sunk into a deep sleep, from which he did not wake for several hours. Isabella had nerved and steadied herself for her duties, and with a calm face and tearless eyes, but a breaking heart, had given all needful directions to the household, and told Rosa and George, in answer to their importunate questions, that their father was     472     HEAVENWARD LED; OR, in great danger, without explaining the painful cause; and then each moment of delay in Mr. Halyburton's arrival seemed so many hours to her impatient anxious heart, longing as she did to follow Nellie and the doc- tor. At length, however, he came, having been some- what delayed at the telegraph office in getting off his despatch to Charlie. He brought his mother to stay with Rosa and George, while the sisters were absent, and the carriage being already at the door waiting for them, there was no further detention. About half way they met Dr. Blackstone's messen- ger, and Mr. Halyburton, gpessing from his rapid riding what his business might be, stopped him, and taking the note read it to Isabella, and then sent the man on with it to his mother at the Park. During this- sad, sad ride, Isabella did not speak, and still shed no tears, but kept her eyes constantly fixed on the road in impatient, eager haste to arrive at the end of their short journey; she was so anxious and fearful lest she might be too late to find her father still alive. They reached the hourse at length; Dr. Blackstone met them at the threshold and carried Isa- bella to Nellie's room, then he sent Nellie to her, and wrapped in each other's arms the two sisters sobbed aloud, which was a relief to their throbbing, aching hearts. After this they tried to comfort each other,   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       4,3 and calmed themselves, and washed the traces of weep- ing from their faces, that they might return to their father's chamber, and be near him when he waked. After some time he roused and found his two daugh- ters bending over him, with looks of anxious love, and the two young men standing together not far off. Glancing first round the room to see where he was, and then at them, in surprise, he murmured: My children, this is kind; I thank you." Then turning to Isabella, with an humble look of entreaty, he continued: "And you, dear daughter, you can forgive your poor father now, can you not? Ah! yes, we must all forgive each other, or God will not forgive us our trespasses." Isabella kissed him most gently and tenderly, and, restraining the passionate outhurst of feeling which almost overcame her, she put her lips close to his ear, and whispered softly: "My precious father, I need your forgiveness for having been stern and harsh and unloving. I am so truly sorry for it all now. I did not know how dearly I loved you all the time until I heard of your great danger. Will you forgive me and love me in spite of the past?" 40      474    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, "How could I ever help loving you, my child? It is I who need forgiveness. Kiss me once more." He said this faintly and brokenly, and again fell into a heavy stupor. When he next roused it was towards night. He asked then if he might not kiss his little children; so Patrick was despatched immediately back to bring Mrs. Halyburton, with George and Rosa, early next morning. Charhe was away when the telegram first reached the Seminary, and did not, in consequence, arrive until the next day, too late to see his father before his death. All night his children watched beside him; occa- sionally he roused and uttered a few disconnected conscious words, and in his delirium would exclaim: "I see land! I am coming into port! Who is the Pilot? Ah! yes, I know him by the crown of thorns and his wounded hands. He will land me safe, not I I can do nothing, he must do all-it is not yet too late, is it? He will let me in at the eleventh hour- I tell you he will, for he has promised to cast out none who come to him-and I trust him-I trust him- him only can I trust." Once he turned, with a wild, anxious look, to Nel- lie, and cried out:   THE TWO BEQUESTS.      475 "Don't let them think I was afraid at the last to die--I wasn't? And why? Because you showed me, child, you showed me the way, and I came to the Lamb of God, and he has washed me, and made me clean- at least I trust he has-I trust he has." These sentences all came out faintly, and at inter- vals, his voice almost dying away into a sigh at the last. In the morning when George and Rosa came, he roused and kissed them, and made another effort to speak. "Be good children-pray to God to make you good -my poor little boy, take warning, take warning, by your father-mind all your sisters say, and be good, be good-" Towards midday the great shadowy change, an- nouncing death's approach, came over his countenance. He roused for the last time, and making one more last effprt, motioned to the two young men to approach. Taking Nellie's hand, he laid it in Dr. Blackstone's, and with a feeble pressure held them between his own, and said, "God bless you, my children." Then he repeated the same action, and the same words, to Isa- bella and Mr. Halyburton. Afterwards he feebly said, "Give my love to my son when he comes-God bless him;" and then im-     476     HEAVE NWARD LED; OR, mediately motioned to Mr. -Halyburton to pray; and while the latter was in the very act of commending his soul to God, he breathed his last in one long sigh. Yes, all was now over-they looked up and found that he was dead. Dr. Blackstone softly closed his eyes, 'and while his daughters bent weeping over his dead body, Mr. Halyburton repeated these touching lines: ' Dead? Poor lips, repeat, repeat it I Wrench from out that word of dread All the sharpest sting of anguish Wrapped within it-He is dead I "All love's sweetest ministrations, All its needs for him are o'er; Never will he cross the threshold Of the old familiar door. "Dead  Oh grief has drowned my vision I Blotted all my gladness o'er. But I trust in God he LIVETH As he never lived ibefore!" And then gently drawing Nellie and Isabella away, he led them to his mother, who was with George and Rosa in the little sitting room. Not more than a few minutes had elapsed after this, when Charlie ar- rived; and, when the first burst of grief at their   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       4" meeting under such sad circumstances was over, arrangements were made for their return to the Park, as well as for the removal of the lifeless remains of their father. The news of his death, and its attendant circum- stances, was soon the subject of much discussion and comment, and his conduct on the occasion surprised and softened his sternest judges; still many won- dered to see how truly and tenderly his children mourned for him, and thought it marvellous and strange that they should love so much such a father. Ah! they forgot that our dear loving Father in Hea- ven, when he set each little family group apart to be bound together by nature's closest tie, mercifully also implanted, deep in our hearts, the sweet and hallowed root of mutual household love which, like the healing tree of olden time, can sweeten with its forbearing, hopeful, trusting patience, even the bitter fountains of Marah should they chance to spring up in the sacred bounds of home; and that when this love is suffered to decay and perish, we lose our claim to a place in the great human family, and are declared, without natural affection, to be like the brute beasts which perish. "For no man ever yet hated his own flesh, but loveth it and cherisheth it." But, alas! that the name of father-that dear,     478    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, sacred, honored name-so capable of stirring the heart to its profoundest depths, with feelings of veneration and reverential love, and filling it with perfect trust, should ever be so desecrated that men can wonder at the children's love! Isabella treasured now the remembrance of every softened feeling of pity and forbearance which she had experienced for her poor father towards the close of his unhappy career; she would have given much could she, like Nellie, have cast a cloudless retrospective glance upon their previous intercourse. And ever afterwards she felt and owned the force of the sweet Christian poet's words: "Love is our only business here, Love simple, constant, and sincere." Her name appeared in the newspapers in connec- tion with the duel in a manner which, it is true, shocked most deeply her delicate and refined feel- ings; for when have ever motives of pity or con- sideration or delicacy proved strong enough to induce newspaper reporters to forego the satisfaction of sup- plying the insatiate morbid public appetite with minute sensational details of every domestic calamity even? But even this she found could now be borne with uncomplaining patience. How was it possible to cast upon the memory of her dead parent one bitter   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       479 or resentful murmuring thought? And in the midst of every sorrowful thought in connection with their father, his children could all still raise their grateful hearts to God, their Heavenly Father, who had, with the light of His glorious countenance, so brightened the heavy clouds behind which his sun had been setting; and so suddenly turned the dark night which seemed setting round his soul into that long cloudless day which knows nor shadow nor change-that day of which God and the Lamb are the sun. And now, reader, I shall pause on the threshold of this mournful chapter only long enough to tell you of Baron Von Starchie's miserable end, and how retri- butive justice, which comes sometimes with too much deliberate slowness-unswerving and unfaltering as it is ever sure to be-to satisfy the rash, headlong, hasty views of impatient mankind, overtook now, with startling speed, the footsteps of the wretched victim of Divine wrath who had just filled to over- flowing the cup of his abominations. There might almost be heard, as it seemed, from the moment this last deed was ended, mutterings as of distant thunder over his head, announcing the coming of that dread chariot of fire in which rode the avenger of blood, bearing in his hand the long-sheathed, but now flaming sword of justice. There were a few     480    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, silent midnight hours intervening before the fatal moment arrived for the unerring, steadfast hand to deal its deadly stroke, whose blackness of darkness neither mortal tongue nor mortal pen could describe- hours when at the close of an ill-spent day he threw himself upon his couch to slumber, but was suddenly awakened from  his troubled sleep, scared by ill dreams, awakened to be accused by his guilty con- science not alone of this recent crime, but blowing away, as it were, with its scorching breath, the ashes of the past, under which had slumbered the memory of many a deed of violence and sin; it showed him, coming in quick succession, and each repeated again and again until the train seemed endless, former victims of his cruel wrath, his selfish avarice, and other nameless vices, and made the boasted brave man quake with cowardly fear, and day after day flee from place to place before a mysterious undefined sense of dread; the danger seeming only all the more appalling because of the strange vague uncertainty of the inward warning, and its ever-shifting varying shape. There was no human record made of all these mortal terrors and torments which surrounded the pathway of this man of blood; but ere long the news- papers teemed with harrowing details of a fearful steamboat disaster upon the Mississippi river, ensuing   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       481 from the rash and reckless captain having been urged on to a mad, wild race by men, still more rash and reckless than himself, whose loud cheers and shouts had cleaved the air and drowned alike the low-voiced prayers of timid women and the calm remon- strances of wise and cautious men, until at length the ill-fated boat had been run upon an unseen snag and violently rent asunder. Billows, too, of flaming oil had rolled around the sinking wreck, and illumined with their baleful glare, not only the waters of the muddy river for many miles around, but all the clear blue of the over-arching sky above, and in the midst of those fearful waves of fire perished-along with many a tender, trusting, loving woman, and many a pure, brave, true-hearted man-Baron Von Starchie, the bold unbelieving blasphemer, and the false, cold, and cruel murderer. Yes, alike did the ireful flames seem to be kindled around the evil and the good, the just and the unjust. But, reader, be assured that the good and wise Being, who sits upon the great white throne, pene- trated even that lurid bed of fire with his all-discern- ing eye, discriminating and distinguishing his own suf- fering little ones; and that he ministered to them even in that fearful, perilous hour consolations and com- forts which we wot not of. Scattering the dust of soft "       2a     482    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, forgetfulness or tender charity over the graves of the errors, and even crimes, of those who are sleeping either beneath the silent sod or the rushing, foaming billows, that deep, dreamless slumber from which only the trumpet of the Great Judge shall arouse them, let us turn now to more cheering scenes; and though we may not follow our young friends Isabella and Ellen Ashton through the bright, sunny, verdant paths which they were yet to tread hopefully and joyously, we may at least draw near enough to listen for a moment to a few echoed notes from that softly vibrating life-chord, whose sweet undertones have been already distinctly heard, even through the harshest discord of the now reverently-buried past; and which was henceforth to make much pleasant melody to gladden and to cheer them on through every future hour to the last calm close. W    THE TWO BEQUESTS.      483 CHAPTER TWELFTH. CONCLUSION-HEALTH AND HAPPINESS TO ALL. HE good old rector returned very shortly after the events of the last chapter had passed, having safely escaped all the perils of land and sea, and being thoroughly re- newed in health and vigor, as well as in fresh, genial spirits and kindly humor. He was glad to come back to all his beloved people; but words would almost fail to tell of the warm, tender greetings which were exchanged between himself and the now literally orphaned household at the Park, who had so long been scarcely less dear to his heart than his own chil- dren, and who had been longing earnestly for many weeks for his full-hearted and deep fatherly love and sympathy, which they now felt expressed in every tone of his soft mellow voice, and every glance of his gentle, quietly watchful eye, as he listened with deepest interest to the recital of the varied incidents and experiences of each young life during his long absence, intermingling, as occasion might require, words of soothing pity or of gladdening cheer and     484'    HEAVENWARD LED: OR, strengthening faith. While Mrs. Blackstone, with her warm, frank, cordial kindness, was unwearied in herefforts to cheer and brighten each young face in that little orphaned group, mentally asserting as often as she saw them, that their dole of sorrow having been so liberal in the past, future joy and gladness could scarcely come to them in measure sufficiently full and overflowing. It was, indeed, touching to notice how almost in- stantaneously her sometimes rather too quick, decided voice and somewhat positive, peremptory manner be- came softly modulated and full of quiet gentleness whenever she began to converse with Nellie, Isabella, or Charlie. Nor could she bear to see any of them crossed in the slightest wish of their hearts; but would gladly and willingly have waited on them, and even spoiled them to the last degree, had. that been possible. Scarcely a day or evening elapsed that the two families from the'Rectory and the Park did not pass many pleasant hours in each others' society. Meantime the months glided swiftly and tranquilly by; and time, the grand assuager, especially of the sorrows and griefs of youthful hearts, had been kindly, soothingly, and healingly at work upon the Ashton family, whose young, elastic spirits began to rebound         \   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       485 somewhat from their late heavy pressure. And ere long the bridal morning of the two sisters dawned auspiciously upon them, bringing, wrapped in its rosy, trailing mantle, many bright omens of a happy, cloud- less future. They were to be married at the same time by their kind old friend the rector; and surely never stood side by side before the marriage-altar two fairer, love- lier youthful brides, nor two whose soft, spotless rai- ment was a truer index of the virgin purity and guile- less innocence of the inner souls which had passed not in vain through the deep waters of tribulation. Their hearts were not in tune for much wedding gayety or festive mirth, but overflowing with youthful love to the many kind friends who had almost over- whelmed them in their darkest hour with unlooked- for evidences of delicate consideration, esteem, and affection-none of whom would they now exclude from a share in the sober gladness and softened sun- shine of the new young day just opening on their lives. The arrangements for the wedding were extremely simple and unostentatious; but never had a crowd of heartier well-wishers, or more sincerely and cordially appreciating friends, passed through the long avenues of ancient oaks, or thronged the grand old wainscoted "*     486    HEAVENWARD LED; OR, halls and parlors of Ashton Park, than those who came in eager haste on this soft, dewy moonlight evening, in the month of May, to witness this double wedding; the young minister and the young doctor, as well as their lovely brides, having won a greater share of the devoted and unqualified affection of all who knew them than it is often given to men and women in this too self-absorbed world, to gather to themselves. Costly and valuable presents flowed in from various unexpected quarters, and heaps of little simple gifts and tokens came too from others whose means were smaller, but whose treasure of love and gratitude and affectionate remembrance was fully as strong and as dearly prized, besides, by those for whom it was evinced. Even Mammy Polly, from her long-hoarded stores of' silver coin, afforded herself the generous pleasure of purchasing for each of her darlings a small, simple, chaste silver bowl, inscribed with their names and her " dear love.", Nor were Patrick and Bridget behindhand with their characteristic offer- ings: Pat's coming in -the shape of nothing less than a pair of strutting gaudy pea fowls, which, with comically innocent pertinacity, he several times ad- miringly declared were as like as two peas to his beautiful young mistress and her handsome bride-   THE TWO BEQUESTS.       487 groom, which happy comparison gave rise to many a hearty laugh, and many a humorous thrust at the young people, which they were compelled good- naturedly to parry, or to bear with the best grace they could. Bridget spent quite a little pile of money in pur- chasing a stupendous mound of gorgeous artificial flowers, under a large glass vase, which stood for many a long year upon Mrs. Halyburton's centre- table, in almost ludicrous contrast with the elegant simplicity of all the rest of the adornments, of her cheerful but modestly furnished rectory parlor. But not for all the world would she, merely to gratify her own refined and harmonious taste, have wounded the faithful, warm-hearted creature's affectionate feelings by seeming to undervalue her well-meant bridal gift. A year afterwards, Charlie having finished his studies, and being ready to take upon himself the duty of assisting his father-in-law, to whom, a few years afterwards, he succeeded in the pastoral office, the venerable old church in B    witnessed a similar bridal gathering, and Florence Blackstone, his innocent " child-sweetheart," became his loving, cling- ing, trusting little bride. And for some years they lived with Nellie and the doctor at Ashton Park, where Nelhe had continued always to surround with     488      HEAVENWARD LED. her sweet motherly love and watchful care, her little sister and brother, Rosa and George submitting with unquestioning and loving obedience to the gentle guidance to which they had been so long accustomed. It was an inexpressible comfort and delight to the good old minister thus to have his dear devoted chil- dren around him to the very day of his death-his. bright, sunny Florence especially, who darted in upon him sometimes several times a day, and always glad- dened his heart with her sweet, loving, winsome ways. Having nothing further to tell the "gentle reader," who has kindly followed, through sunlight and shadow, and into sunlight again, the ideal beings whom fancy summoned around us, I bid him a long farewell, hoping that when he lays my story down, it may be with cordial good-will towards my model men and women, and a wish that the world were only full of such. THE END.   PHLADELPHA, 822  HEISTNUT STREET. PORTER & COATES PUBLISH THE FOLLOWING "ST OF B13OOS. la-The Books in this List, unless otherwise specified, are bound in Cloth. All of our Publications mailed, post-paid, on receipt of price. SIR WALTER SCOTT, WAVERLEY NOVELS. Complete in 23 vols. Illustrated. Toned paper. Price per vol., Globe cli tohn: clo1t, extra, Ul.25; lhalf calf, gilt, W3.03. Standard Library L'iStion: cloth, extra, gilt tops, bev. boards, $1.75; half calf, gilt, $3.59; half mor., gilt tops, $3.j9. Waverley.           Pirate. Guy IMannering.        Fortunes of Nigel. Antiquary.           Peveril of the Peak nob iHoy.            Quentin Durwrd. Black Dwarf and Old Mortality. St. Ronan's Well. Heart of Mid-Lothian.      Redgauntlcf. Bride of Laimermoor, and A   The Betrcthed, and the Talisman. Legend of Montrose.      Woodstock. Ivanhoe.            Fair Maid of Perth. Monastery.           Anne of Geierstein. Abbot.-             Count Robert of Paris, and Castle Kenilworth.           Dangerous. Chronicles of the Canongate. This is the best edition for the library or for general use published. Its convenient size, the extreme legibility of the type, whic 11 is larger than is used in any other edition, either English or American, its spirited illustra- tions, quality ot the paper and binding, and the general execution of the presswork, must commend it at once to every one. TALES OF A GRANDFATHER. Uniform with the "Waverley Novels." Illustrated. 4 vols. Toned paper. Price per vol. Globe Edition: cloth extra, $1.25; half calf, gilt, $3.03. Standart Library Edition: cloth extra, gilt tops, bov. boards, $1.75; half morocco, gilt tops, $3.50; half calf, gilt, $3.50. The only edition containing the Fourth Series, "Tales from French His- tory." IVANHOE. A Romance. Youth's Favorite Edition. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. 41.50. "ADY OF THE LAKE.     Vith twenty-five engravings on wood, from designs by Birket Foster and John Gilbert. 16mo. Bvy. boards, $1.50; half calf, gilt, $3.00; full Turke4 mor. an tique, $4.00.     2      PORTER & COATES' PUBLICATIONS. RUFUS W. GRISWOLD, D D. THE PROSE WRITERS OF AMERICA. -With a Survey of the Intellectual History, Condition, and Prospects of the Country. New edition, thoroughly revised and completed to the present time, with a supplementary Essay on the Present Intellectual Condition and Prospects of the Country. By Prof. JOIN II. DILLINGHAM, A M. With seven portraits on steel and vignette title. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, extra, gilt top, bevelled boards $i.00; sheep, marbled edges, library style, $t.00; half calf, $7.50; full Turkey morocco, $10,00. "We are glad to possess. in this form, portions of many authors whose entire works we should never own, and if we did should probably never find time to read. We confess our obligations to the author ior the personal in- formation concerning them which lie has collected in the memoirs prefixed to their writings. These are written in a manner creditable to the research, ability, and kindness of the author."- William Culln Bryant. "An important and interesting contribution to our national literature. The range of authors is very wide; the biographical notices full and inter- esting. I am surprised that the author has been able to collect so many particulars in this way. The selections appear to me to be made with dis- crimination, and the criticisms show a sound taste and a correct appreci- ation of the qualities of the writers, as well as I can judge."--Williant H. Prescott, the Historian.  The present edition has been thoroughly revised, every page has been gone over. and notices of authors who have passed away since the previous editions were published, have been revised and continued to the period of their decease, and long and critical articles on the authors of the present day have been added, making the work complete in every respect to the present time. It should' occupy a prominent place in the library of every cultivated American. GEMS FROM THE AMERICAN POETS. With brief biographi- cal notices. With a fine engraving on steel.  32mo, cloth 60 cents; illuminated sides, 90 cents; Turkey mor., extra, $1.50. FREDERIC H. HEDGE; D D. THE PROSE WRITERS OF GERMANY. With Introductions Biographical Notices, and Translations. With six portraits on steel and engraved title. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, ex-tra, gilt top, bevelled boards, $5.00; sheep, marbled edges library style, $6.00; half calf, gilt, $7.50; full Turkey morocco, -10.00. "There is no book accessible to the English or American reader which can furnish so comprehensive and symmetrical a view of German literature to the unitiated: and those already conversant with some of the German classics will find here valuable and edifying extracts from works to which. very few in this country can gain access."-Prof. A. P. Peabody, in .North American Review. PROF. HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW. THE POETS AND POETRY OF EUROPE. With Introductions, Biographical Notices, and Translations, from  the Earliest Period to the Present Time. New edition, thoroughly revised and completed to the present time. With Engravingsion steel and engraved title. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, extra, gilt top, bov. boards $6.00; sheep, marbled edges, library style, $7.50; half calf, gilt, $9.00; full Turkey morocco, $12.00. "This valuable volume containsselections from about three hundred and sixty authors, translated from ten langlages,-the Anglo-Saxon, Icelandic, Danish, Swedish, Dutch, German, French, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese. Mr. Longfellow himself gives us translations from all of these languages but two. Among the other translators are Bowring, Felton, -erbert, Costello, Taylor, Jamieson, Brooks, Adamson, Thorpe, &c."-Allibone's Dictionary of Authors, vol. ii.   PORTER & COATES' PUBLICATIONS.          3 WILLIAM SHAKSPEARE. COMPLETE WORKS. Dramatic and Poetical with the "Epistle 1)edicatorie," and the Address prefixed to the edition of 1623, a Sketch of the Life of the Poet by ALEXANDER CIIALMtURS A M., and Glossarial and other Notes and Refercnces. Edited by GEORGE LONG DUYCKINK. With twelve full-page tinted Illustrations, designed by Nicholson, a superb portrait on steel, fromn the celebrated Droeshout picture, and beautiful engraved title, on steel. 976 pp. Imperial Mvo. Cloth, extra, gilt back, $3.75; sheep, library style, $4.50. FINE EDITION OF THE ABOVE, on extra calendered paper, with the addition of a History of the Early Drama and Stage to the time of Shakspeare, a full and comprehensive Life, by J. PAYNE COLLIER, A M., Shakspeare's Will, critical and his- torical Introductions to each play, and thirty-five full-page tinted engravings, from designs by Nicholson, a superb por- trait on steel from the celebrated Droeshout picture, and beautiful engraved title on steel. Imperial 8vo. 1084 pages. Half calf, gilt, $8.75; full Turkey morocco, $10.00. POEMS AND SONNETS. With a fine engraving on steel. 32mo. Cloth, 60 cts.; illuminated side, 90 cts.; Turkey morocco, $1.50. THOMAS PERCY, D D., Bishop of Dromore. RELIQUES OF ANCIENT ENGLISH POETRY: consisting of Old Heroic Ballads, Songs, and other pieces of the earlier poets, with some of later date, not included in any other edition. To which is now added a Supplement of many Curious His- torical and Narrative Ballads, reprinted from  rare copies with a copious glossary and notes. New edition, uniform with ' the above. 558 pp. Imperial 8vo. Two steel plates. Fine cloth, # bev. bds., gilt, $3.75; sheep, library style, $4.50; full Turkey morocco, $10.00. "But, above all, I then first became acquainted with Bishop Percy's heliques of Ancient Poetry .... I remember well the spot where I read these volumes for the fist time. It was beneath a huge plantanus tree, in the ruins of what had been intended for an old-fashioned arbor, in the garden I have mentioned. The saLim:nlr day sped around so fast, that notwithstanding the sharp appetite of thirteen, I lorgct the hour of din- ner, was sought for with anxiety and was still iound-entranced in my intellectual banquet. To read and tj remember was in this instance the same thing, and henceforth I overwhelmed my schoollellows, and all who would hearken to me, with tragical recitations from the ballads of Bishop Percy. The first time I could scrape a few shillings together, which were not common occurrences with me, I bought unto myself a copy of these beloved volumes, nor do I believe I ever read a book half so frequently, or with half the enthusiasm."--lfemoirs of his early Life, by Sir Walter Scott prefixed to Lockhart's LiJe of Scott. "ORD BYRON. COMPLETE WORKS. Prose and Poetry. With five engravings on steel. Imp. 8vo. Sheep, library style, $4.50; Turkey mo- rocco, antique, $10.00. "If the finest poetry be that which leaves the deepest impression on the minds of its readers,-and this is not the worst test of its excellence,-Lord Byron, we think, must be allowed to take precedence of all his distinguished contemporaries. 'Words that breathe, and thoughts that burn-,' are not merely ornaments, but the common staple of his poetry; and he is not in- spired or impressive only in some happy passages. hut through the whole body and tissue of his composition."--Lord Jeffrey, Edinburgh IReview. THE MORAL AND BEAUTIFUL IN THE POEMS OF LORD BYRON. Edited by REV. WALTER COLTON. 32mo. Cloth, 60 cts.; illuminated side, 90 cts.; Turkey morocco, $1 50,     4      PORTER & COATES' PUBLICATIONS. ALEXANDER WILSON. AMERICAN ORNITHOLOGY; or, The Natural History of the Birds of the United States. Illustrated with plates engraved and colored from original drawings from nature. With a sketch of the life of the author,. by George Ord, F R.S., &c., &tc., with Bonaparte's continuation, containing the, Natural IIistory of Birds inhabiting the United States, not given by Wilson. With figures drawn, engraved and colored from nature, by Charles Lucien Bonaparte (Prince of Musignano). Complete in three volumes, imperial 8vo.; and a magnificent folio volume of carefully colored plates, embracing nearly 400 figures of birds, mostly life size. Elegantly bound in cloth, extra, beveled bds., gilt tops, uncut, $65.00; half Turkey morocco, marbled edges, $75.00. A new and magnificent edition of this world-renowned work, printed from new stereotype plates, on the finest laid paper, and bound in the best man- ner. The plates are printed from the original plates of Wilson and Bona- parte, engraved by Lawson, '"the first ornithological engraver of our age," and are carefully colored, after the author's own copies. The superiority of this work for accuracy of description and naturalness of drawing, has long been acknowledged. Daniel Webster speaks of it in the highest terms, say- ing that of the salt water birds, mentioned in Wilson, "le had shot every one, and compared them with his delineations and descriptions, and IN EVERY CASE lound them PERFECTLY ACCURATE TO NATURE." And the London Quarterly Rcview characterized it as " an admirable wcrk, unccual- ed by any publication in the old world, for accurate delineation and ju:Ft description." A moment's comparison of this work with any other on the same sulbjoct, will convince the most skep:ical of its great superiority. As a specimen of American book making, it has never been surpassed, and, at the low price it is now offered, should be in every public and private library of any pretensions. ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING. THE POETICAL WORKS OF ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWN- ING. Complete. Printed with large type, on laid tinted paper, and a fine portrait on steel. Two elegant volumes, 12mo, cloth, $5.00; half calf, gilt, extra, $9.05; lull Turkey, extra, $12.03; crown 8vo volume, cloth, extra, $3.00. The poems of Mrs. Browning have received tne encomiums of the ablest authors and critics, and have assumed their place among the " lew immor- tal names that are not soon to die." Few poets, surely no other woman ever wrote with the same vigor of thought, united with such delicacy of senti- ment of feeling. With many she is decidedly preferred to Tennyson; for while she has the same happy turns of expresion, and pretty conceits of language, she unites more-strength and character. A CHARMNG WORK. MOTHER GOOSE IN HER NEW DRESS. A Series of Charming Sketches, beautifully chromo lithographed. This book Till create a sensation. The distinguished authoress designed the original of this work as a birth-day gift to her father, who occupies one of the highest positions in the United States gov- ernment, but several connoisseurs happening to see it were so struck by its merits, that she was induced to have it published. Mother Goose never looked so charming as she does in her pre- sent dress. Cloth, gilt, beautifully bound, with linen guards, $4,50. CERVANTES. THE HSTORY AND ADVENTURES OF DON QUIXOTE DE LA MANCHA. From the Spanish of Cervantes. With six full-page illustrations, by Gustave Dor6. Large 12mo, cloth, extra, $1.50,   PORTER & COATES' PUBLICATIONS.          5 CHARLES KNIGHT. HALF HOURS WITH THE BEST AUTHORS. With Short Bio- graphical and Critical Notices. Elegantly printed on the finest paper. With fine steel portraits. 6 vols., crown 8vo. cloth, bev. boards, gilt tops, $9.00; half calf, gilt, $18.00; half morocco, gilt tops, $18,00; or bound in 3 vols., thick crown 8vo, fine English cloth, bev. boards, gilt tops, per set, $7.50; half calf, gilt, $12.00. Selecting some choice passage of the best standard authors of sufficient length to occupy half an hour in its perusal, there is here iood for tlhught for everyday in the year; so that ir the purchaser will devote but one half- hour each day to its appropriate selection, he will read through these six volumes in one year, and in such a leisurely manner that ttie noblest thoughts of many of the greatest minds will be firmly implanted in his mind forever. For every Sunday there is a suitable selection from some of the most eminent writers in sacred literature. We venture to say, if the editor's idea is carried out. the reader will possess more information and a better knowledge of the English classics at the end of the year than he would by five years of desultory reading. The variety of reading is so great that no one will ever tire of these volumes. It is a library in itself. MSS JANE PORTER. The two following are new stereotype editions, in large, clear type, with initial letters, head and tail pieces, &c. The illustrations were designed expressly for this edition, and engraved in the highest style of art. THE SCOTTISH CHEFS. Illustrated by F. . C. Darley. Crown 8vo, 718 pp. Fine English cloth, gilt. Price, $1.50; half calf, gilt, $3.50. "Sir Walter Scott, in a conversation with ICing George IV, in the library at Carlton IIouse, admitted that 'Tlle Scottish Chiefs' suggested his ' Vaverly Novels.' "-Allibont's Dictionary of Authors. "This is a nei and by far the best edition of a national romance which has been as much read and admired as almost any of Scott s or Dickens' novels. It is low-priced, well printed, and handsomely bound. Thousands of readers will be glad to go over this stirring tale once more."-Philadel- phia rtess. REGINA MARIA ROCHE. THE CHLDREN OF THE ABBEY. Illustrated by F. 0. C. DAR- "EY. Uniform with "The Scottish Chiefs." Crown 8vo, 64 pp. Fine English cloth, gilt. Price, $1.50; half calf, gilt, $3.50. "This classic is more neatly published in the new edition than we have ever seen it. It was long a standard, and had more favor than 'Thaddeus of Varsaw,' and it deserved better. It takes a new lease of existence now, and we almost envy those who read it for the first time."-North American, Philadelphia. ROBERT McCLURE, M D., V S. THE AMERICAN GENTLEMAN'S STABLE GUIDE. Contain- ing a Familiar Description of the American Stable; the most approved Method of Feeding, Grooming, and General Manage- mcnt of Horses; together with Directions for the Care of Carriages, Harness &c. Expressly adapted for the owners of equipages and fine horses. Cloth extra, illustrated. $1.50. A handy manual, giving to the owner of a horse ust the information of a practical nature tnat he often feel4 tnte need of, and by an author who thoroughly understands what he is writing about, and what is needed by every gentleman. "Such a treatise has been needed for years, and we think this volume will supply the want. The illustrations are very good and timely."--Pittsbu rgA Daily azette.     6      PORTER & COATES' PUBLICATIONS. JOHN J. THOMAS. THE AMERICAN FRUIT'CULTURIST. Containing Practical Directions for the Propagation and Culture of Fruit Trees in the Nursery, Orchard, and Garden. With Descriptions of the Principal American and Foreign Varieties cultivated in the United States. Second edition. Illustrated with 480 accurate figures. Crown bvo. Cloth extra, bev. bds., gilt back. $3.00. We have read hundreds of criticisms on this book, and they unanimously pronounce ittthe most t/^orogh, practical, and comprehensiveworlk published. The engravings are not copies of old cuts from otner books, but are mainly original with the author. J. H. WALSH, F R.C S. ("Stonehenge.") THE HORSE IN THE STABLE AND THE FIELD; his Manage- minnt in Health and' Disease. From the last London edition, with copious Notes and Additions, by ROBERT MCCLURE, I D. V S., author of "Diseases in the American Stable, Field and Farm-yard," with an Essay on the American Trotting Horse, and suggestions on the Breeding and Training of Trotters, by ELLWOOD HARVEY, M D. Witlh , engravings, and full-page engravings from photographs Iromn Iiie  Crown 8vo, Cloth, extra, bev. bds. $2.50. "This Americanizing of 'Stonehenge' gives us the best piece of Horse Literature of the season. OLd horsemenl need not be told w'o ' btonehcnge' is in the British Books, or that he is the highest authority in tNff and veteri- nary affairs. Add to these the labors of such American writers as Dr. McClure and Dr. Harvey, with new portraits of some of our most popular living horses, and we have a book that no American horseman can atford to he without."--Ohio Farmer, Cleveland, April 24,18G9. "It sustains its claim to be the only work which has brought together in a single volume, and in clear, concise, and comprehensive language, , dequate information on the various subjects of which it treats."-- Haper's 'fagazine, July, 1869. THADDEUS NORRIS. AMERICAN FISII CULTURE. Giving all the details of Artificial Breeding and Rearing of Trout, Salmon, Shad, and other Fishes. 12mo, illustrated. $1.75. "'Norris's American Fish Culture' published in this city by Porter & Coates, is passing around the world as a standard. Mr. Norris's authority will be quoted beside the tributaries of the Ganges, as already by those of tle Hudson, the Humber, and the Thames. The English publishers of the book are Sampson Low, Son & Co.; and a late number of the Athenaeum, after an attentive review of Mr. Norris's methods, concludes thus: ' Mr. Norris has rendered good service to the important subject of fish-culture by the present publication; and, although his book goes over ground (or water rather) occupied to a great extent by English writers on fish culture, it (cn- tains several particulars respecting this art as practiced in the Unitedl States, which are valnnlhe, and inay be turned to profitable account by our pisciculturists.' "-PAiliadelphia Evelniig Bulletin. THE AMERICAN ANGLER'S BOOK. Embracing the Natural History of Sport!ng Fish, and the Art of Taking Them. With Instructions in Fly Fishing, Fly Making,. and Rod Making; and Directions for Fish Breeding. To which is added Dies Pis- catorice; describing noted fishing places, and the pleasure of solitary fly fishing. New edition, with a supplement, contain- ing a Description of Salmon Rivers, Inland Trout Fishing, &c. Illustrated with eighty engravings. 8vo, cloth extra. $5.5U. "Mr. Norris has produced the best book on Angling that has been pub- lished in our time. If other authors would follow MLr. Norris's example, and not write upon a subject until they had practically mastered it, we should have fewer and better works. His volume will live It is thoroughly instructive, good-tempered, and genial."-Philadelphta P rea.   PORTER & COATES' PUBLICATIONS          7 OLIVER BUNCE. ROMANCE OF THE REVOLUTION. Being true Stories of the Thrilling Adventures, Romantic Incidents, Hair-breadth Escapes and Heroic Exploits of the Days of '76. Laid paper, with six illustrations. 16mo, cloth, extra, $1.50. While the principal events of the history of our glorious Revolution are -known to every intelligent American, much remains to be disclosed of the inner history of the war, and the motives and patriotism of the people. There were deeds of individual daring, heroism worthy of the proudest days of Greece and R6me, dashing and hazardous enterprises, and hardslips bravely borne, performed by subalterns and private soldiers in the grand army of heroes, wlich should never be forgotten. To collect and preserve the sketches of these almost forgotten passages of the war, as they originally appeared in the newspapers and private letters of that stirring period, and the stories told by scarred Veterans round the blazing hearth-stone; these legends of the past; has been the object of this work, and the publishers are confident that none wnill rise from its perusal without acknowledging that "' Truth is stranger thall fiction," and with a deeper feeling of reverence for the heroes of the days of ' 6 CECIL B. HARTLEY. "FE OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHNE, Wife of Napoleon I. With a fine Portrait on Steel. 16mo. Printed on fine laid paper. Cloth, extra, $1.50. "Her career and her character were alike remarkable; surrounded by the demoralizations of the French Court, sle was a Roman matron in stern rectitude, with a pro-eminent fidelity to a sensitive conscience; and blended comprehensive genius with a warm heart and a noble personal presence. She was the peer of Napoleon, and in some respects his superior. Her exe- cutive force was less, but her foresight was greater. It is to her that the index finger of history points, as an example of female grandeur. Napoleon got a divorce from her because he wished his seed to inherit the French Crown. The son born of his Hapsburg marriage died crownless, while the grandson of Josephine now wears the purple of France-this is more than poetic justice. * * *In the book be'ore us, the story,of her life is told in a simple, classic style, and possesses a fascination rarely met with in blo- graphy."--Chicago Evening Journal. MRS. ANNA JAMESON. LIVES OF CELEBRATED FEMALE FOVEREIGNS AND IL- LUSTRIOUS WOMEN. Edited by Mary E. lewitt. With four portraits on steel. 16mo, beautifully printed on laid paper. Cloth, extra, $1.50. The celebrated Mrs. Jameson, who wields a powerful, ready, and pleasant pen, has taken hold of some of the leading events in the brilliant lives of some of the most world-noted women and depicted them in very attractive colors. It is a lovely book for young ladies, and will give them a taste for history. J. H. MERLE D'AUBIGNE. HSTORY OF THE GREAT REFORMATION OF THE SIX- TEENTH    CENTURY, in   Germany, Switzerland, France, England, &c. Five volumes in one. Royal 8vo, 852 pp. With 20 engravings on steel, and a superb portrait of the author, $5.00; sheep, library style, $6.00; half calf, antique, $8.00. Now that the dogma of infallibility of the Pope has been promulgated, this charming history of similar events, over three hundrPd veuars fago acquires a new interest. The narrative is so picturesquely told, it has aU1 ts attractions of a romance,     - 8     PORTER & COATES' PUBLICATIONS. MARGARET HOSMER. Author of 'Cherry, the Missionarv," "Grandma Merritt's Stories," "The Voyage of the White Falcon," &c., &c. "TTLE ROSIE'S FIRST PLAY DAYS. Illustrated. 18mo., 160 pp., 75 cents. "TTLE ROSIE'S CHRISTMAS TIMES. Illustrated. 18mo., 160 pp., 75 cents. "TTLE ROSIE IN THE COUNTRY. Illustrated. 18mo., 160 pp. 75 cents. "Very nice children's books, indeed, and we only wish that we had more space to say so, and more time to say it in. Any present-giving fathers, mothers, uncles, aunts, brothers, or sisters, who have a care for the little people, may safely order these for home consumption."-The Hartford Churchman. "A charming series of stories for the younger class of readers, full of in- teresting incidents and good moral and religious instruction, brought down to the comprehension of a child in such a way as to produce a salutary im- pression. They are calculated also to teach parents how to keep children employed in what is pleasant and useful, thus superseding the necessity of imposing so many restraints to keep them from evil. This is apt to be the great fault in the management of children. They are given nothing inno- cent and useful with which to employ their active, restless minds, and then parents wonder that they need be always in mischief. Rosie's mother better comprehended the wants of a child, and forestalled temptations to end by incentives to good."-Springfteld Dally Union. UNDER. THE HOLLY- or, Christmas at Hopeton Grange. A Book for Girls. By Mhs. IIOSMEB and Miss    . 12mo. Illus- trated. Cloth, extra, $1.50. "And this we can and do most confidently recommend to parents who are faithfully striving to provide only wholesome food for the intellectual appe- tite of their children. The tone of the book is pure and healthful, the style easy and graceful, and the incidents are such as to give pleasure without at all kindling the passion for exciting fiction, which is so rampant among the young people of our day."-lMarylandc Church Record. "This is entitled, ' A Book for Girls,' but it would interest the youth of either sex. It is a succession of tales told at the Christmas season. We can recommend them all for their interest and moral. It is for 'children of a larger growth,' not a mere story-book for the little ones.'-P-hiladelphia Daily Age. "ENNY, THE ORPHAN; or Trials and Triumphs. Illustrated, by Faber. 16mo. Price, $1.25. "A story book of an orphan boy, who is thrown loose upon the world by a conflagration, in which his mother and only surviving parent is burnt. The varieties of experiences both sorrowful and happy, through which the boy passes, are wrought up into a story of no little power and yet are such as often occur in actual life. The religious teachings of the book are good, and penetrate the entire structure of the story. We recommend it cor- dially to a place in the Sunday-school library."-Sunday-School Times, Phila- delphia. "The author of this book has written some of the best Sunday-school books which have recently been issued from the press of the American Sun- day School Union. The volume before us portrays the trials of a little boy, who loses his mother in early life, and is subjected to the intrigues of a de- signing person, from which he obtains a happy deliverance. The story is well planned and written, and Its moral and religious lessons are good."- Weekly Creedman, ,New Brunswick, N. J.   t. II I     
         
      
   
