
    ----CITATION----
        Ditson, G. L. (b. 1812). Crimora, or, Love's Cross .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6284 wright2-0755
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               CRIMORA:
               OR, LOVE'S CROSS.
            
            BY G. LEIGHTON DITSON, AUTHOR OF "CIRCASSIA, OR A TOUR TO
               THE CAUCASUS."
            
               
                  
                     "Then give me those arms of light; that sword, and that spear of steel. I
                        shall meet Dargo with thee, and my lovely Connal. Farewell, ye rocks of
                        Ardven! ye deer! and ye streams of the hill! We shall return no more. Our
                        homes are distant far."
                  
                  —CRIMORA.
               
            
            
               BOSTON:
               GEORGE LEIGHTON DITSON
            
            1852.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1851, by GEORGE LEIGHTON
                  DITSON, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of
                  Massachusetts.
               BAZIN & CRINDLER, Printers, No. 37 Cornhill.
            
         
      
      
         
            Crimora, or, Love's cross
            CRIMORA.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               THERE was about to be on the earth a new revelation. In the "image of its Maker"
                  it was to appear,—a bright and breathing creature imbued with a matchless, undying
                  spirit from the altar of high heaven.
               What revelation of infinite power, love and wisdom—of the essentials of
                  divinity—has ever been vouchsafed to mortals, which has exceeded in beauty, in
                  "fearful and wonderful make," the human form! In such a form was to be embodied
                  our new revelation; and for the occasion Nature seemed to deck herself in gala-day
                  trappings. Flinging back from her sinless face the misty veil of the early
                  dawning, she turned the dew drops into diamonds for her feet,—touched with fair
                  freshness the rich foliage-drapery which hung about her queenly figure,—gathered
                  on her ever youthful brow a tiara of golden morn-light, and awaited the
                  advent.
               
               In the early part of the present century, on a gorgeous couch in a castellated
                  mansion overlooking the waters of the Clyde,—her head pressing the softest of
                  pillows which the richest of Mechlin lace adorned—a beautiful woman gave birth to
                  a sweet, smiling child. No raven flapped its dark wings at the window; no moan was
                  heard; no spectre seen; no tempest howled about the turrets when the little one's
                  first cry crept through the ear, and down into the heart of the happy father; but
                  a turtle dove, which had long been the pet of the newly made mother, flew to her
                  side and nestled down by her cheek in the rich silken waves of her luxuriant
                  hair—then arched its neck, and sought her luscious lips as if 'twould say, "in the
                  new comer it must have no rival." It was a pleasing incident, and was proclaimed
                  by all as an omen that gentleness and love would characterise the child. The
                  sequel, perchance, will confirm it.
               The room for a time had been darkened, but as the fair sufferer awoke from a
                  refreshing sleep, the satin drapery of the windows was put aside, and the rich
                  mellow light allowed to pour into the apartment. What a gush of joy every soul
                  evolved! The gentle mother smiling in the fulness of her bliss, folded to her
                  snowy bosom the new-born infant; from whence a pale glory seemed radiating, as
                  though indeed another Holy Child lay there. It was in truth a sacred
                  revelation,—an ultimate of perfections in the harmonious progress of events,—a
                  lovely bud that was to beautifully blossom in the great field of humanity.
               If the mother was happy in her breathing treasure, the father was no less so; and
                  in wild enthusiasm bathed with kisses and tears her round alabaster-like
                  shoulders, and smooth brow, till a thought of her present weakness warned him that
                  his adoration even, might be wearying.
               Donald Lathmon was the' happy man of whom we speak;—a noble-hearted' Scotsman, who
                  held in trust for grandchildren—should there be any to his family—a large and
                  valuable property. The story which I am about to relate concerning this branch of
                  the Lathmon stock, I—learned a few years ago from an old man, who, with myself had
                  been resting his aged limbs among the tombs of the far-famed Necropolis of
                  Glasgow. He had noticed my particular examination and admiration of a monument,
                  crowning an elevated spot on that lovely hill consecrated to the dead; and aware
                  that I was a stranger, lingered on the "Bridge of Sighs" (most appropriately
                  named, for over it all must pass who go to lay their loved ones in that sacred
                  spot), which joins the Necropolis to the living city, and spans the gurgling
                  Molandina Burn, to encounter me on my return.
               "Do you know anything of the Lathmon's, whose tomb yonder, you have been so
                  particularly regarding?" said the old man respectfully, as I came up to him.
               "If they are of that family," I said, "of whom Ossian so divinely sings,—'who
                  poured from the eastern hill like a stream of darkness,'—I know something of their
                  history; yet, I would be thankful to one who would teach me more."
               "Come with me, then," joyfully replied the old man, "and from yon elevation, which
                  is near my own dwelling, I will show to you the mansion of the worthy and once
                  happy Lathmon's; and," added he, "if you like well a story of truth,—that is, I
                  assure you, stranger than fiction tion,—I
                  will tell you the life some of them have sped; but it will take time—time, as I am
                  old."
               I expressed my gratitude, and my new friend and guide led nimbly up the hill. When
                  arrived at the top, he pointed out the home and the once fertile lands of the
                  Lathmon's, with whom, as he afterwards stated, he had spent his happiest days as a
                  gardener. When satisfied that I had drank in all the beauties of the scene, he
                  conducted me to his own cottage, and beneath the porch began this tale:—
               It was a noble family!—not ennobled by titles, but by deeds. Donald was a favorite
                  child, and while his father and mother lived, had no greater pleasure than that
                  afforded to him by implicit obedience to their wills. The sectarianism and bigotry
                  of the times, however, occasionally influenced them unfortunately—once in a most
                  serious affair which forced upon their son a wife, whose mind was as angular as
                  his was free from duplicity.
               The result of this marriage was a daughter—in giving birth to which the mother
                  passed away into the spirit land, where she was soon joined by both her
                  father-in-law and mother-in-law.
               Young Donald was fully aware of the irreparable loss he had met with in the death
                  of his parents—but he was now free; and as soon as time had tempered his grief, he
                  sought and won the affections of the most lovely and accomplished woman of the
                  land;—and, as we have seen at the commencement of this chapter, was blessed by
                  another daughter—a real child of love.
               One would now suppose that Donald Lathmon found his home a perfect paradise. It
                  might have been so, perhaps, had it not sheltered a little venomous toad in the
                  shape of his first child, who partook so entirely of the character of her mother,
                  was so full of envy and malice, that the morning which ushered in the new birth,
                  destined her for a foreign residence.
               Prudence Christian,—for such was the name Mrs. Lathmon had given to her most
                  imprudent, unchristian product,—was despatched to London to reside with, and be
                  educated by, a religious aunt, who possessed many of the qualifications of a very
                  disagreeable women, but who held on to society by a link of seeming piety. This
                  relative's unnatural severity of deportment, served utterly to alienate from her
                  affections,—if she had any,—her new charge; while the restrictions under which the
                  child was placed, schooled her in every deceptive artifice: though, as she grew
                  up, she discovered by her own mother wit, that there were many ways of working
                  one's self into place and influence, not legitimately belonging to the properties
                  of a high-souled woman.
               Prudence was too much like her mother, to obtain much love from the father. Her
                  very name,—bestowed upon her by his "better half,"—ever gave to him a califrio when he heard it uttered; for there is much
                  in a name or a word—much in the harmony of the one, in the sound of the other,
                  that excites agreeable or unpleasant emotions. A whole nation is influenced into
                  suavity and gentleness of manners by its language. Even the celestial spheres win
                  a charm from a musical appellation. Ciclo and
                     il Paradiso attract to their distinguished
                  glory the ear as well as the hearty.
               Donald Lathmon's second wife,—whom he called Lirio,
                   (the lily)—was for some days after the
                  event we have described "as well as could be expected."
               The mother and father both blessed God for the precious gift of a child, and
                  offered up prayers for its health and goodness of heart.
               As soon as the mother could sit up and fold the little one to her bosom—clasp this
                  little Lily to lilies—she earnestly solicited for it a pretty name. "What will you
                  call our sweet little Tot, dear Donald?" said she;—"certainly it is old enough to
                  have a name, and sweet enough to have two!"
               "Give it such a name as will please you best, for then I am sure it will please
                  me," replied Donald. "Your mother called you Flora, but I chose to call you Lirio,
                  because you were to me a pure and definite beauty. The name of the child is one
                  that you will almost momentarily repeat; therefore it should be such as
                     you fancy, one, however, that when spoken should have no harshness
                  in it, but come in softness to the ear. Flora is pretty, and certainly dear to me,
                  for it was by that I first welcomed and loved you. Would you not then, like to
                  call her Flora?"
               "No, no; I could not think of giving her so common a name," replied the mother. "I
                  would like to have one that is not only classic, but expressive of something—I so
                  much dislike unmeaning names."
               "Well, my fair Lirio, name her as you will," said the father. "For my part I shall
                  call her Tot!—yes, Tot!—our Tot!—our dear little Tot!" and for many months "Tot"
                  she was called.
               Il Lirio saw the bud unfolding day by day, yet without a name. One evening,
                  however, with a bosom heaving with emotion, as she laid aside a volume of Ossian's
                  poems, she said to herself,—"that name whispers to me her destiny; it fixes itself
                  in my mind, and as it is the Galic we so much love, it shall be
                  hres,—foreshadowing, emblematic—hers it must be:—Aluine Lorma! Aluine (alona),
                     exquisitely beautiful, Lorma, the loving."
               As Flora Lathmon finished these exclamations, Donald entered the room. He was met
                  by his wife, who threw her arms about his neck, and told him of the name she had
                  determined on, expecting him to receive the news as joyfully as she had
                  communicated it.
               "It is a sweet and pretty name," said Donald, smiling, though there was evidently
                  a tinge of sadness in his expression.
               "Still," said Flora, "I fear you do not quite like it."
               "Yes indeed I do like it," said Donald with more affection, "for it sounds of our
                  own hills; and Aluine is expressive of that loveliness I know the
                  child will inherit from her mother. Lorma, however, you remember was
                  the wife of Erragon; yet as deep earnestness and fidelity are such noble traits in
                  any character, it did not fail to make sacred her love for Aldo,—and in that light
                  may not be inexpressive of what we wish our own child to be. Crimora, which
                  signifies, a woman of a great soul, is, however, the name we must
                  ever pray that she may be worthy to bear, we will call her by the sweet ones of
                     your choice."
               The little Tot now stood out in the world with a name, and grew apace, and all who
                  saw her longed to possess her. She was surpassingly lovely, but of a
                     temperament bordering so much on the
                  retiring and melancholy, that many thought it portended a sad and mysterious
                  history. She elicited at all times and places unbounded admiration; but if for it
                  she was much indebted to her natural amiability, no less was due to her education.
                  She was not spoiled by flattery nor indulgence. Pure parental love, sincerity,
                  truthfulness, and a high purpose ever in view, directed her steps. Did she love
                  flowers? Yes, passionately, but not Botany. Did she love minerals and shells? Yes,
                  much, but not Mineralogy nor Conchology. Did she love birds? Yes, if they were
                  pretty and gentle, and sang well, and she loved Ornithology, because it "tells of
                  the habits of those little feathered spirits," she used to say, "who have sorrows,
                  and joys, and loves like my own;" Indeed, she loved deeply every thing that was
                  pure, chaste, beautiful and good, while—though it could not be said that she hated
                  anything—she instinctively shrank from every object which did not bear the stamp
                  of refinement. She became suddenly sad and dejected when compelled to view any
                  thing awry with nature,—that was harsh, hypocritical or vulgar. She would often
                  ask her parents such questions as these: "If our Maker is so good, why does he
                  permit his creatures to suffer from hunger and destitution? Why do people ever
                  quarrel? Why do they go to war? Why do not the birds associate more with us?—for
                  they must know we would not hurt them; and why does not God take all children to
                  himself, while they are innocent as He made them?"
               "My dear Aluine," the good mother would reply—and always with profound reverence
                  when she touched on what she supposed to be a sacred subject—"the first man
                  sinned, and thus brought darkness and tribulation upon the whole human
                  family."
               "And was it not very cruel, mother," the little one would ask with the most
                  earnest look, "to make us all suffer—so many millions as you say there are on the
                  earth—just because he chose to be naughty himself?"
               "It was so, indeed," responded the mother with tenderness, "and so God in his
                  goodness, to redeem the world from the fearful consequences of Adam's
                  transgression, gave His only Son up to a bitter death."
               "And was not that cruel, too?" replied Aluine, whose heart and eyes were
                  overflowing with sympathy; "I wonder why the good God who sees everything, when he
                  saw Adam was going to do wrong, did not prevent him, and thus save you, dear
                  mother, and all of us, from unhappiness, and save his own Son, too?"
               "My child! my child! it is a great mystery; but He is good, and you will know all
                  hereafter. I cannot myself see, why depriving one of a free will to do evil, would
                  not have been better than the allowing of a trifling error to enthrall the race,
                  and entail on unborn myriads of immortals eternal punishment;—and for that, too,
                  in which they were not participants."
               To the lovely Lorma this was in truth a strange mystery, while her mother's
                  injunction, "to be good," was wholly unnecessary, as she did not know how to do or
                  think anything that was evil. To be sure, when she saw the burly priests gathering
                  in the pence from the poor, she manifested an acuteness of contempt which the most
                  casual observer would have paused to contemplate; yet she wished them no harm, and
                  seemed to feel more disgust for the act,
                  than the actors. If, however, the character of the latter had been to her as
                  readable as the former, a transfer in some of her thoughts would have taken place;
                  for, whenever the poor approached her, their looks were responded to, before their
                  lips could breathe their wants. One day, when arrayed in a costly frock—the good
                  taste of a doting parent—a frock of pure white, which made her look like one of
                  the bright angels our imaginations often picture in the heavenly choir—a man with
                  a white cravat, and an austere and puritanic face, took occasion to talk to her on
                  the vanity and folly of such a "sinful rig," as he called it. She immediately flew
                  to her mother to ask an explanation, "for only yesterday," said she, "I gave all
                  the money I had to poor Margaret, from whom this same man took his church
                  rates—leaving her without a penny."
               "We must try and think that the man is good," said the interrogated, "though it is
                  hard on Margaret, who, though she has forty acres of land rented to her, is
                  devoured by taxes, and is miserably poor. She pays four pounds sterling to
                  government, eight pounds for poor rates, and seven pounds ten shillings to the
                  church, which has brought her and her family to the very dust. The man you speak
                  of probably felt that he was doing his duty—which includes all moral
                  obligations—but which an enlargement of his understanding would have shown to be
                  just the reverse; for no oppression can be justifiable in the sight of heaven.
                  Humanity and mercy are golden keys to the portals of il
                     Paradiso."
               "Ah, mother! a man who has no heart to guide him in his duty is not
                  fit for heaven, for he cannot be good; and if he goes I cannot live there with
                  him. Such a man would say, that the plumage of the angels is too delicate, (and
                  she recalled what the clergyman had said to her); that the golden harps are too
                  gaudy; that the precious stones in the gates are too valuable for such a setting,
                  and that all the songs of joy are a mockery of the solemn and gloomy visage he had
                  borne through life. O mother! do not talk to me of such people 'soaring on the
                  wings of faith to heaven,' if you do, I fear I shall have no desire to go hence;
                  but when you speak of the harmony and affection there is there—that all is love
                  and charity, and that there is no discord there—then I long to go with you and
                  father, and wander in those bright fields where celestial flowers know no
                  fading."
               Such a region as Aluine last spoke of, was the only one really suited to her
                  nature. When abroad in her own father's fields, beside their streams and flowers,
                  when gazing on the distant hills robed in the last rays of the setting sun, no
                  being could have been more devoutly happy than she was. So full was her swelling
                  soul of the glory of all that was round about her, she would
                  sometimes stretch forth her white arms as though she longed to reach it, clasp it,
                  and gather it all into her own pure and gentle bosom, where it would find a
                  welcome and genial home.
               "Mother," the fair girl would say, "If the birds could sleep on the mountains
                  while the light was about them, how gladly would I hold the sun from going down."
                  The mother did not understand her, but thought she referred to some interior
                  light, and to" innocence. "And would it be wrong to kneel, mother, to these
                  forests, which, with this golden tint of evening on their heads, seem bowing to to the Deity?—or to the great rocks,
                  mother, which, when I have hallooed to them in glad admiration, have taken my
                  voice and echoed it louder and louder, upward and onward to heaven? They say that
                  I am beautiful. It is because you and all nature are beautiful. The
                  Earth is beautiful, and thence beautiful flowers spring from her. I sometimes stay
                  my hands from gathering her fragrant offspring for fear of grieving her. Would not
                  you grieve if she was to tear me from you?"
               This tenderness, this simplicity and aptness of thought, this natural and pure
                  religion of the heart, constituted Aluine Lorma's chief fascination, and never
                  forsook her; and though the sensuous, and austere formalist, denounced her
                  actions, it was because she trusted to the sacred impulses of a lofty and pure
                  nature with which her Maker had endowed her, and chose to follow its dictates,
                  rather than the, often unmeaning, vulgar and unnatural, conventionalisms of
                  society. Her soul was so refined, so artless, so full of love and adoration of her
                  Creator and His beautiful works, she knew it could not lead her astray; and though
                  she possessed transcendant charms of person, they all paled before the light of
                  her divine spirit, which sometimes with an unearthly splendor burned in her large
                  lustrous eyes—eyes into which no mortal could gaze without feeling an earnestness
                  for heaven.
               Advancing now towards womanhood, the epithet, fascinating, which had been applied
                  to the lovely Lorma, was more than ever applicable; for to all that, with which
                  she was naturally endowed, was added the graces of a highly cultivated intellect.
                  The weak and imbecile shrank from the thought of scrutinizing her mental calibre,
                  while they adored and drew near. The vicious quailed before her gaze, yet revering
                  her, sought to follow afar off. The impure stood abashed, and rather pleaded for
                  mercy than scoffed. Those of lofty sentiments—wearing an impress of nature's
                  nobleness—experienced in her society a peculiar transanimation, an undefined
                  harmony and concord of feeling, which wafted them along through unmarked hours, as
                  over fields of flowers.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               AS we shall have considerable to say of one Mr. Smithers—John Knox Calvin
                  Smithers—let us give a brief account of his birth, education, habits, and
                  progress, up to the time we find him planning to wrest from an Italian invalid,
                  the wealth designed for a more worthy object.
               In one of the narrowest and dirtiest streets; in one of the smallest and dirtiest
                  houses in Glasgow; on a morning so cold, and chilly, and cheerless, that the
                  mildest tempered baby imaginable would have been badly influenced by the apparent
                  inhospitableness thus thrust upon its tender sensibilities,—young John Knox Calvin
                  Smithers opened his insignificant eyes on creation. What his first impressions
                  were we have not learned, but we think ours would have been—that a little more
                  light and luxury in our apartment, a little less of poverty and pinching want,
                  would have added materially to our comfort and conscience.
               John Smithers, the elder, was at this time a very poor man—keeping in the front
                  part of his house a small shop, where, by toys and toil, he succeeded in creating
                  life and wearing it out. He was also a religious man—religious in the Calvinistic
                  sense of the word, and so rigid and formal that he would have rather seen on a
                  Sabbath morning the entire populace gathered around the stake of a martyr, than to
                  have had a reviler of his creed live unpunished. He was so exact in his family,
                  that no member of it dared to err bunglingly; this caused them to be
                  astute, deceptive, watchful, intriguing.
               On the Sabbath, John Knox Calvin was whipped to the Sabbath School, and whipped if
                  he was faulty in his catechism; while during week days, from the time he could
                  well go alone, he was made to tend the shop. In this last vocation he was
                  particularly instructed to watch the customers, to see if they stole anything; and
                  though he might not have detected any one pilfering, his mind was strongly
                  impressed with the idea that the people generally were untrustworthy, if not
                  actually villains, and that it was necessary to regard them lynx-eyedly; while
                  there could be but little virtue in abstaining from driving with them the best
                  possible bargain, by every possible means.
               The training young Smithers thus had, prepared him thoroughly to cope with the
                  world, and before he left his father's shop, there had been broad cast upon his
                  heart, all the seeds of chicanery allowed to germinate within the pale of the
                  law.
               Ambition, knowledge of the world, confidence in his own capacities, induced John
                  Knox Calvin, at an early age, to proceed to London, and commence trading on his
                  own account. His plans thrived according to his most sanguine expectations, which
                  proved the shrewdness of his calculations. Close attention to business won for him
                  money; and a strict observance of all the exterior, soulless forms of religion, a
                  corresponding amount of respect. He, however, who noticed particularly this young
                  man, saw in his furtive unconfiding glance, something that betokened tokened no response to the sacred mandate, "Love
                  one another."
               As I have said, Smithers was one of the most punctual of church-goers; and to this
                  fact the attention of a young lady was called by her aunt, who sat near him in the
                  temple of the Lord. "Prudence," said she, on leaving the sanctuary, "that is a
                  most proper and good young man, I'll be bound to say, for he is ever punctual in
                  this holy place; and his responses are so audible; and I learn—for I have
                  particularly inquired about him—that he is in excellent business, and that his
                  hand and heart are free."
               "His hand and heart may be free, for aught I care," responded the young lady
                  addressed—Miss Prudence Christian Lathmon—with contemptuous pertness; "for what
                  have I to do with tradesmen?"
               "It is true," said the dame, "it would be well to look higher; but then you are
                  fast reaching Womanhood, and no suit has yet been pressed; then, again, your
                  father has another wife and child, who control him as they will; so from that
                  source you cannot expect much favor or fortune, a fact which should induce you to
                  be less tenacious of the position your birth most justly entitles you to."
               "But I would die, rather than marry a tradesman!" exclaimed Prudence, while her
                  eyes flashed indignation.
               "To be proud is not a Christian virtue," responded the aunt, meekly, "and
                  certainly, after all the example you have had set before you, you should be a
                  pattern of humility and propriety. And be assured, Prudence, it is much better to
                  marry a tradesman with money, than a coxcomb or younger brother
                  without it. With the former you can set up your establishment; and what with your
                  piety and known respectability, can carry full sway over the whole end of the town
                  in which you may reside."
               "To be respectable, is, I admit," said Prudence, softening in her
                  asperity, "a very high consideration; but we need not talk of these things
                  now."
               The truth was, the aunt had become weary of the young vixen, and wished to get rid
                  of her; and to this end had already arranged affairs, so that Smithers should be
                  presented. Smithers, in the mean time, puffed up by the favor shown to him, really
                  began to imagine himself good-looking, and finally to fancy himself in love.
               One accustomed to contemplate a height, becomes so familiar with it, that to reach
                  its summit appears far more easy to him, than it does to one who looks on it for
                  the first time; so John Knox Calvin Smithers, so constantly contemplated a
                  marriage in high life—so intently fixed his ambitious gaze on an elevated position
                  in society, that he felt himself prepared to take any stride, or any number of
                  steps, however gauchement, to reach it.
               Smithers' tact in discovering the weak points of those with whom he conversed,—his
                  natural shrewdness, and his conviction of the necessity of making available, and
                  to the utmost, every vantage ground allowed at any point—gained for him triumphs
                  few could have anticipated. In this case, however, of lady Prudence, there was
                  working in his favor a negative influence, which escaped the observation of but
                  few; and that was, the absence of all other admirers of the object of his
                  ambitious choice.
               On the part of Prudence Christian Lathmon—that which had the greatest influence
                  with her under the blessing of her aunt, was Mr. Smither's
                     respectability; for the
                  old lady would say: "He has no family name to boast of, it is true; but then he is
                     so respectable." That is,—he attended divine service regularly,
                  and conformed strictly to the externals of the sect, with all the hypocrisy he was
                  an adept in from long practice.
               The interview,—shrewdly planned by the aunt,—opened a way to Smithers, which he
                  knew well how to avail himself of; and pushing his suit to extremities, brought
                  about a marriage, before the lady hardly knew who the gentleman was,—except that
                  he claimed to be a very respectable man, and on the high road to wealth. The
                  wedding was a brilliant one, (we shall have occasion to refer hereafter to some
                  parties who enjoyed it,) and the respectable Mr. Smithers and his new bride, in a
                  respectable mansion, in a respectable part of London, seemed starting as fairly as
                  most couples do, for the goal of happiness.
               The first plan Mrs. Smithers proposed to herself, was, to adopt a species of
                     hauteur towards her neighbors; so that if any
                  of them did court her society, she could dictate the terms of their
                  acquaintanceship,—the essentials being an untainted reputation, a thoroughly
                  religious (sectarian) bias, and an uncompromising opposition to all that did not
                  accord with her notions of what was right, even to the minutiæ and
                  trivialities of social life. If she took upon herself the privilege of passing
                  over any minor points, it was to indicate her condescension, rather than her
                  countenance of them.
               Besides Mr. and Mrs. Smithers, there was in the domestic arrangements of the new
                  home, a maid of prepossessing appearance, if not accredited as a
                  decided beauty. In form and features, and some peculiarities of character, she was
                  the antipodes of her mistress, and would under favorable circumstances have been
                  an ornament to society.
               Thus constituted, the family of Mr. Smithers continued for a time—he attending to
                  the business, and Mrs. Smithers to the respectability of the establishment. No
                  offspring blessing their married state, the lady was quite inconsolable, as she
                  could not enjoy the respectable announcement in the newspaper, of having given
                  birth to a fine son. The mortification, however, accruing from this misfortune was
                  soon shrouded by one of a deeper dye, and that home to which she would have
                  sacrificed everything to give it a highly respectable name, was
                  undermined at its deepest foundation.
               Repelled by the bad temper, meddlesome, querulous disposition, hypocrisy, and
                  bigotry of his spouse, and attracted by the fair proportions and sprightly mein of
                  the maid, Mr. Smithers stepped from the latitude and longitude of rectitude as
                  laid down on the chart of his Sunday creed, and rendered himself liable to have
                  his mask of assumed virtue at any time demolished, and the bare, hideous face of
                  his true character exposed to the world.
               "Mr. Smithers," said Mrs. Smithers, one day, as her husband rose from the dinner
                  table, at which an unusual silence had been observed, "I cannot, and will not, any
                  longer endure the insolence and impudence of Miss Wellington, as you call her;"
                  and the fire of a thousand furies burned under the speaker's projecting eye-brows.
                  "Instead of aiding she thwarts me," continued the wife. "She looks at me
                  contemptuously, and sometimes hints that I dare not say a word against her to you.
                  She even assumes of late the right to
                  dictate in the house; and, between you and me, sir,"—and here she gave her
                  writhing husband a most searching look,—"I begin to mistrust that she is not quite
                  so respectable as might be."
               "Indeed!" exclaimed Mr. Smithers, "you overwhelm me with astonishment;" and he
                  grew alternately red and pale, as hopes and fears came and went, respecting Miss
                  Wellington's imprudence in exposing his peccadillos. "Indeed you cannot really
                  think so, Prudence, for you know that she is always circumspect, proper, and
                  devotional. In truth, dear Prudence,"—and he assumed a more affectionate tone,
                  though confusion and shame were evidently striving to get the ascendancy of the
                  habitual meanness of his face,—"you must be mistaken, for she is always at home,
                  and under our own eye; and we should certainly know if she was guilty of the
                  slightest impropriety;—your own natural quickness of perception would have
                  discovered—"
               "Yes, that is it, Mr. Smithers!" replied Mrs. Smithers, vehemently;—"that is it!
                  my natural quickness of perception has discovered something which
                  amounts to a conviction. Did I not discover that Mrs. Timlinson had a lover, long
                  before her husband knew it? And did I not, as I ought, ruin the family by
                  promulgating it throughout our end of the town?"
               "But that 'lover,' you recollect, Mrs. Smithers," replied he husband meekly,
                  "proved to be her brother; but as the mischief was done, you could not remedy
                  it."
               "Pretty well, Mr. Smithers," retorted the wife; "and do you think I'm going to
                  countenance even the appearance ance of evil? Not I! Did not Miss Siblin's
                     appearance make us think that she went early to the Sabbath-school
                  to teach, whereas, by my watching, did I not discover that she went by a private
                  door to the vestry, to see the minister? And did not the whole church ever after
                  that look on me as a true shepherd to the flock?—and was not I put at once on the
                  committee of vigilance by our Ladies' Look-After-Husbands'-Morals
                  Society? Indeed, I should be greatly defective in duty if I neglected any
                  opportunity of knowing the private doings of every person, and, if not right, to
                  denounce them; for how else am I to keep myself from contamination, and our circle
                  respectable?"
               "Judge not that ye be not judged, Mrs. Smithers, is as important an
                  injunction as any your society may advocate,—a mandate as necessary to observe—as
                  imperious as the church rules; than break which you would prefer to break your own
                  neck and your neighbor's;" and here Mr. Smithers, though he had spoken in a solemn
                  manner, threw a little sarcasm into his tone, for he began to see the necessity of
                  preparing the way, and smoothing the sea over which he was to make his own
                  escape.
               "O, Mr. Smithers! are you, too, turning infidel? Would you, and would you have me,
                  break those rules by which we have pledged ourselves to be governed?" and the lady
                  looked towards the ceiling.
               "My expressions, dear Prudence," responded Mr. Smithers, "do not imply any such
                  wish, but I would have you more observant of those of higher origin."
               "Then you think, Mr. Smithers, that I don't know my duty, do you?" said the "dear
                  Prudence," scornfully. "If I don't, I think I shan't ask you,—for you men are a pack of deceivers and hypocrites, and to
                  the bottoms of your souls you hate all that is pure and just, and 'roll wickedness
                  under your tongues like a sweet morsel.' Our neighbor Testor, for instance, I have
                  particularly noticed, never has any serving maids in his house who are not pretty;
                  and after they have lived there awhile they appear out in silk dresses, and flaunt
                  away as gaily as their mistress. There is neighbor Substance, too,—what is he off
                  so much for? And his wife, (whose acquaintance I have cut, from the suspicious
                  circumstance that she would'nt tell me the name of the man who walked to church
                  with her one Sunday, though I asked her the direct question)—his wife, I say, (and
                  people don't keep secrets when there's no evil to conceal), is as mum as a mouse,
                  sly as a linx,—takes advantage of his absence, and——I'll spread it abroad,—I'll
                  see if our neighborhood is to be one of scandal!"
               "Dear Christian Prudence," replied Mr. Smithers,—partly with a desire to allow his
                  better half to breathe, and partly to ease himself down from the position of
                  respectability from which he expected to be suddenly pulled, and which had ever
                  been the ambition and the hobby of Mrs. Smithers,—"is there not some injunction of
                  this character in the Bible: 'Love thy neighbor as thyself'?"
               "You provoke my very soul of patience out of me, you—all at once—pious John Knox
                  Calvin Smithers," retorted Mrs. Smithers, in frothing fury; "and I should'nt
                  wonder if Miss Wellington's hints had some significance—the jade! She shall leave
                  the house immediately, or I will."
               Mr. Smithers, if he had been a real Christian, would have felt much mortified at
                  such religion as his wife possessed; if he had been an honorable man—as the term
                  is—he would have solved a mystery portentous of much disturbance. As it was, and
                  knowing that every opprobrious epithet could justly be bestowed upon him, he
                  seized his hat, at the first calm in the tempest, and rushed from the house—truly
                  burdened with his own miscreancy, and with a detestation of his "respectable"
                  better half. He also began to entertain an aversion to Miss Wellington. The
                  feeling astonished him, but he did not stop to analyze it. The fact was, he lacked
                  soul, character, affection, and could not know their value had he discovered them
                  in others. Miss Wellington was a mystery to him, and had gained great ascendancy
                  over him, but had not discretion enough to avoid the assumption of certain airs
                  that could not but lead to most disastrous results:—exposure and consequent
                  mortification of the very man it was her interest to uphold in his position,
                  however false might be the basis on which he stood.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               ALUINE was just fifteen years of age on the night when her half-sister was married
                  to Mr. Smithers. She had been invited to the wedding, because she had put herself
                  forward, and always exerted herself to establish and maintain an intimacy with her
                  young relative,—the unpleasantness of whose position had been mainly affected by
                  herself, though unwittingly and unavoidably. She had always sustained a friendly
                  correspondence, and sent to her many tokens of her sisterly love; and it would
                  have wounded her most deeply to have been neglected on so important an
                  occasion—important in more respects than one, and to more than one. Oh! on what
                  simple events—on what seeming insignificant casualties, hang our destinies! The
                  wing of the smallest insect that floats in the air may bear us to a throne or
                  beggar us forever!
               A large company had already assembled, when Aluine was set down at Mr. Smithers's.
                  Requiring none of the arts of the toilet, she entered at once the saloon—from all
                  sides of which arose a murmur of admiration, interest, and wonder.
               "She is surprisingly fair," said an elderly lady, who no longer feared a
                  rival.
               "She is transcendantly bewitching!" said a youth who thought he could love her,
                  and a thousand more just like her.
               "She is a perfect angel!" said a sweet-tempered girl, who intuitively perceived in
                  the dimpled, dove-like delicacy and fair brow of the new comer, unalloyed
                  goodness.
               "She affects too much simplicity! That artlessness is all feigned! I do not
                  believe in it!" spoke a pert Miss, who was suffering woefully by comparisons.
               "I must know her!" said an elegantly dressed, portly gentleman, with much
                  vehemence, "for she is the first specimen of the feminine gender I have ever seen
                  to whom I should be willing to kneel!"
               In a corner of the room, leaning against a column that supported a bust of
                  Columbus, stood a foreigner, whose eyes dilated, darkened, and for an instant
                  seemed filled with supernatural light, as those of the truly angelic Aluine caught
                  their earnest gaze—then swam in a sea of tears, which the involuntary gushings of
                  his soul sent up unbidden. A moment afterwards, the same young man might have been
                  seen seated alone, in a retired corner of the garden, with both hands pressed
                  firmly to his bosom as he muttered to himself: "Be still! It must not be! I must
                  not see her again! Yet, O yet! she is the true, the real impersonation of that
                  dear vision which has floated through my dreams from childhood!"
               "It is evident," said a woman with a scanty show of hair, and a coarse skin, "that
                  our fastidious Italian is not fascinated by that lump of ivory, for he left the
                  room immediately after she entered."
               "What," said a dingy looking old aunt to the half sister, "can be the possible use
                  in the world of such a creature as Miss
                  Aluine Lorma, as they call her? They say she is an able and apt scholar, and that
                  her head is full of the most sound knowledge; but who can believe it? Is it not a
                  proverb that 'beauty has no other excellence?' Then again, she's so delicately
                  made, that if she should marry poor,—and most likely she will, for what man of
                     sense would have her!—and be obliged to milk a cow or sweep a
                  chamber, it would throw her into a nervous fever. And probably now she is more
                  indebted to dress than to any thing else for the sensation she has created; for
                  who wouldn't look well all in white, with such a low neck to the dress, and bare
                  arms, and skirts heavy with the richest of lace? When I was young I wouldn't have
                  given in to her in good looks, I know!"
               The elegantly dressed portly gentleman mentioned above, was Mr. Bonarges Jones,—a
                  man of large fortune, and large pretensions, and withal, a good-natured man, whom
                  almost every one liked. He immediately solicited and obtained an introduction to
                  Miss Lathmon, and during the whole evening so pressed upon her his attentions that
                  she had little time or opportunity to receive the homage many others were prepared
                  to extend to her.
               Mr. Bonarges Jones, being a man of leisure, knew all London,—that is, all worth
                  knowing. His father and his interests had associated him with the mercantile
                  community, while his wealth secured him a place among the higher classes. He was
                  personally acquainted with all the guests, with one exception, and that one was
                  the only individual concerning whom the bright jewel on his arm made any
                  inquiry.
               "A handsome, unoffending youth, I doubt not," replied Mr. Jones to Aluine's
                  interrogations—"probably a foreigner—an artist, perhaps, from Italy;" and not
                  wishing to show any lack of courtesy towards the one to whose every wish he was
                  trying to devote himself, he sought Mr. Smithers and begged of him the pleasure of
                  being presented to the stranger.
               "What on earth are you doing here, my young fellow?" said Smithers to the Italian
                  whom he slapped on the shoulder, much to the chagrin and astonishment of the
                  guest, who had been approached unawares, so lost was he in a vital reverie. "Do
                  you not have enough of looking at the moon from the gorgeous terraced gardens of
                  your native land, without occupying your time about it, in my poor grounds, and
                  through the smoky air of this matter-of-fact London?—at the very moment, too, when
                  the most swan-like, moonlight-like, gauze-like creature in our happy assembly is
                  asking after you?"
               "Indeed!" exclaimed the youth, starting up as though he had been shot at, "asking
                  for me? But you will excuse me, Sir," he added, after a moment's pause, "you will,
                  I trust, pardon me for—deserting you, as I had a severe pain in the side, and
                  thought, by coming to the cool air, it would soon be better." [He intended to have
                  excused himself from again returning to the saloon, but another spirit besides his
                  own drew him thitherward.] "You said some one inquired about me. I am sure that
                  there is no one in that brilliant throng of your charming countrywomen who cares
                  particularly for my acquaintance; or if so, it is but the passing tribute of
                  respect one is naturally inclined to pay
                  to a stranger: or else, perchance, for the mere novelty of knowing a
                  foreigner!"
               "Well said! Well said!" responded Smithers, as he drew the young man towards the
                  house. "You do justice to your schooling—you speak like a native. Your good
                  father, with whom I have done business for some years, and who placed you a little
                  under my surveillance, you know, while getting your education here, will, I
                  believe, give me some credit for your advancement; but I cannot admit of this
                  diffidence you manifest, and which astonishes me;—the more, as I have always heard
                  that you Italian gentleman are ever forward to excess; aye, even to downright
                  impudence, where the ladies are concerned: so come along,—I'll not be
                  refused."
               "Oh!" said the youth to himself, as unconsciously leaning on the arm of Smithers
                  he retraced his steps, "would that I could escape the ordeal through which I know
                  my heart is to pass! I am already betrothed to another at the instance of my
                  father, and yet, until this evening, I have never seen the one I could love,—the
                  one who has irrevocably chained me;—the one who, without speech or gesture, has
                  enveloped my soul with such a halo of her own, that she has become the atmosphere
                  in which I must revolve, and through which alone all objects must henceforth be
                  seen. Were I a Fatalist, I should now feel a treble conviction of the truth of my
                  faith. The Future lays open to me her fearful volume, and in it I read of strange
                  vicissitudes—acts which task the heart to its utmost powers of endurance,
                  involving my whole soul's happiness or missery. Mr. Smithers is superstitious.
                  Superstition usually arises from ignorance or guilt. If I tell him what leaf in
                  the book of my destiny he is turning over, he will call it 'second sight'—will
                  shun me, or proclaim me a mad astrologer. But Oh! how true it is that the
                  invisible is often seen by us, and the future becomes present! How true it is that
                  souls commingle and sweep on together towards eternity, though their tenements are
                  widely separated! We may not solve the mystery;—it is one of God's great and
                  secret truths!"
               Absorbed in such thoughts, which he had unintentionally proclaimed aloud, the
                  Italian, not daring to lift his eyes where his heart already was, stood before the
                  lady who had asked after him.
               "Allow me, pretty sister," said Mr. Smithers, "the pleasure of presenting to you
                  Senor Fiello Alfierdermo, of Genoa. He is the son of a wealthy merchant whom I
                  deal with, and is here now obtaining an education. Mr. Jones, I will leave him
                  with you, and trust you will not let him escape again."
               Alfierdermo, bending gracefully to Aluine, took her hand, and tremblingly raising
                  it to his lips, imprinted on it a kiss. If Aluine felt a thrill along her nerves,
                  even to the ends of her sweet little toes, the brain of Alfierdermo was a
                  maddening chaos—a wild and happy delirium—a transition from earth to heaven—a
                  world of ecstacy crowded into his heart's span—a whole life of ecstatic beatitude
                  into a moment of poor earthly existence. Did any one speak to him? Did Aluine say,
                  "I am happy in your presence?" He did not know. He heard nothing, saw nothing. He
                  was in a trance. Through those rosy taper fingers there rushed to his head a
                  tempest of pearly thoughts—an infinity of golden-winged fancies; but through the same soft rosy fingers all
                  consciousness of separate self-existence, with reason itself, seemed to escape
                  him. By and by he thought he heard a low voice breathing at his ear, "I am happy!"
                  and then, "Fly! fly a fate so full of wo!" Soon, however, he was aware of several
                  persons speaking at the same time, and of his being led to an open window. "He is
                  faint," said one. "Lead him to the air," said another. "He is pale as death," said
                  a third; "and even more beautiful in his illness than he was when I first saw him,
                  and thought him divine like our Saviour," said a fourth. The next morning
                  Alfierdermo found himself in his own apartments; but how he came there he knew
                  not. He had, however, made up his mind to return at once to Italy.
               Mr. Jones having obtained permission of Miss Lathmon to visit her at her father's
                  house, returned to his own with some new ideas of the value of life and sources of
                  happiness; resolving not to let escape him the feminine treasure so unexpectedly
                  thrown in his way, and which, till now, had lain hidden among village rustics.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               ON the eastern wall of the lofty battlements which surround the City of Genoa,
                  stood a middle-aged gentleman, contemplating the far-stretching Riviera—the valley of the Besagno just beneath him—the
                  climbing terraced hills and the blue valleys on his left. He wore a citizen's
                  dress, but his air was that of a military man; and though he was evidently a
                  native of the north, his face was browned by the suns of a southern clime.
               "This is my dear, my own beautiful native land!" exclaimed the stranger—and large
                  tears rolled down his cheeks. Whether the charming coup
                     d'œil—the idea that he should never behold it again—or the
                  remembrance of one dear but lost to him, affected him most, we know not; but
                  either was sufficient of itself to flood both his heart and his eyes. "But,"
                  continued he, after a pause and a long drawn sigh, "it is best that I should leave
                  thee! Whenever fate lands me in these regions, to this spot I am irresistibly
                  impelled; for it was here I first saw my Stella, and it was here she first
                  confessed her love for me. Her admiration, too, of this enchanting landscape,
                  became almost idolatry, and she soothed every sorrow in the belief that in one of
                  these neighboring valleys she should live and die. O! I did wrong to leave her! It
                  was a false step ambition impelled me to take, and now makes me an exile; for to break in at this time
                  upon her tranquil life, would render two miserable, while by the plan
                  I have adopted, I place her above all want, and make her child—ah!
                  the dear, little precious Saffi!—finally an heiress. It is the best I can do, I
                  know; so farewell all—my daughter, my native land!" Overcome by his emotions, he
                  leaned for a time against the parapet and wept like a child; but as the sun sank
                  behind the Apennines, he descended to the narrow streets of the town—sought his
                  hotel and his couch, and through a sleepless night, thought only of once
                  his—Stella and Saffi. When morning came, the diligence for the north bore him from
                  sunny scenes he was never again to revisit.
               If the stranger was sad in leaving all that was dear to him in the wide, wide
                  world, he found some comfort in the belief that he should be daily, though
                  unknown, blessed by the loved ones whom he had placed in affluent circumstances;
                  never dreaming that they, too, were to see sorrow, deep and poignant, though
                  Saffi's, like the shadow of a swift winging bird, was to pass quickly away.
               Far up in one of the beautiful vallies, which the gentleman we have just parted
                  with was contemplating from the battlements, stood a solitary dwelling—not the
                  abode of wealth and luxuary, though not indicating great poverty. On each side and
                  back of it, for a considerable distance, were long trellace-work structures for
                  the support of the vine—luxuriating in its native soil—while the foreground was
                  adorned by a juvenile flower garden.
               "A lamb has gone astray! Driving our flock a-field, this morning, one of our lambs
                  went astray," said the shepherd, as he entered the above mentioned habitation,
                  followed by his fleecy charge, which, passing through the front room, huddled
                  themselves together in a back apartment. But the good man did not say
                     which had gone astray, for it being the petted one, he knew the
                  sadness such unwelcome news would awaken in the breasts of more than one occupant
                  of his humble dwelling.
               "Which, father, has gone astray?" said the little girl, Saffi, who, clinging to
                  the ends of the red sash tied about the shepherd's waist, looked up earnestly into
                  his face. "I always come out to meet you, father," she continued, "for I know when
                  you have been out all the long day, you are glad to see me;—yes, and my Lula, too.
                  Oh! it must be my Lula! my Lula that has gone, for you looked grave, and the
                  little dear did not come skipping to meet me, as she always does! Tell me quick,
                  father!"
               "I hope it is not our pet," said the mother, as she turned from a piece of broken
                  mirror before which she had been carefully arranging her long dark hair; "for only
                  last evening, the last thing I did after the Ave
                     Maria, was to wash the poor little thing till she was white as snow,
                  and her silken fleece soft enough for the maids of Cashmere."
               "It is even Lula!" said the shepherd, putting his hand on the head of the little
                  child, who then turning towards the wall, burst into tears, "and I suppose you
                  will now be sullen for a whole week, and make me more trouble than ever, because a
                  plaything has disappeared, while you will care nothing for my loss—loss of a part
                  of that which seems to be our only source of food and clothing. It is only one of
                  many which have been taken from us this season," continued he, though now
                  addressing his remarks to his almost
                  disheartened wife, "making us daily more and more poor, who were already nearly
                  destitute;—treading us into the earth, who were just grovelling on its surface,
                  while the rich heed not our distress;—no, nor would they, our cry of agony!"
               "But, Signor Bolaro," replied the matron solemnly, "God has been good in
                  preserving our lives; in granting us health to enable us to attend to our duties,
                  and in bestowing upon us this child, who has, till very lately, been the cause of
                  bringing to us (you know I really believe this,) a home free of rent, and a
                  promise of future wealth. Beware, Francisco Bolaro, of upbraiding Providence, lest
                  the blessed Virgin depart from our hearthstones."
               "He has indeed been good," responded Francisco, "and I should not murmur. The
                  subject of that child, however, always disturbs me. You say it was your husband's,
                  and that he went to the wars in Spain and was killed; while I have reason to
                  believe the father was a gallant officer who deceived and deserted you; and even
                  now may be about these very regions taking an interest in your welfare."
               "Please let that pass, good Francisco, for we have often mentioned it to our
                  mutual sorrow. Let us forget the wrong we may have done, and own that God is good,
                  and has never forsaken you. Do you not remember how, when once passing through the
                  defiles of the Abruzzi, the poor strangers you were conducting on to Naples were
                  all murdered, while you escaped? Did you not then confess His goodness, and for
                  it, give all your gains to the good sisters of charity of the order of the Sacred
                  Heart? Have you forgotten the delivery which you called miraculous, when only last
                  winter, in returning with your companions from Geneva, all, save yourself, were
                  buried beneath an avalanche of the Alps? You then said God was good, and on the
                  night you reached home, you knelt with me beside this very bed, and vowed, for my
                  sake, a silver candlestick to the Virgin. God is good! and even little Lula will
                  not be forsaken. No sparrow falls to the ground unnoticed; fra Carlo said so on last Lord's day. Then, too, my good mother
                  always told me, 'there was no sorrow that did not plant some seeds of goodness;
                  and even Lula's going astray has brought to our hearts some pious reflections, and
                  I feel that the blessed Virgin Mary is hovering about us, and does not despise our
                  lowly abode. Shame on me for uttering such a thought! for was it not in a humble,
                  dark place like this, that she gave birth to her own bright hopes, and filled the
                  world with light? Holy mother, forgive thy erring children! God is good! He
                  tempers the wind to the shorn lamb, and though ours was not shorn, yet she was so
                  innocent she will not be forsaken. But, Francisco, you have not yet told me where
                  you lost her."
               "It was somewhere along the valley we always traverse," replied the shepherd;
                  "and, I think, by the most rugged part of the cliffs. If she had descended to the
                  left she would have exposed herself to view; but she must have gone up, and is now
                  probably breaking her neck among the rocks, or sleeps wearied and distressed in
                  some of their thousand caverns."
               "I know not why, Francisco," said Stella, "but there was something that seemed
                  smiling through my heart when you said the lamb went up. Mark me, future events
                  may reveal a moral in this, which something now to my mental vision faintly
                  foreshadows. The sportive little Lula whom we mourn, felt, perhaps, a true, celestial joy, when from some lofty crag she
                  looked down on the common-place ploddings of the herd. Perhaps, too, when we were
                  gathering in our remaining few, which the gray of evening warned homeward, she was
                  standing in the most golden light of day, where, too, she will welcome the glow of
                  the morning a long hour before it can descend to us. When you say she has gone
                  astray, it but seems to me that all else has gone astray, while she, mounting
                  above the insipidities of the plain and low beaten tracks, can more clearly see
                  the right, and by more expanded powers search out for herself a better home. You
                  do not understand me, Francisco, because I speak of a vision of the future, which
                  this event only partially typifies. Governed by customs and habits, and usages
                  transmitted to us by those we were wont to venerate, we are little able to judge
                  of the beatitude of those who have the boldness to break from the rough and
                  thorny, though beaten paths of life, and move onward and upward as their superior
                  intelligence—the native impulses of a great soul—the aspirations of a free and
                  generous heart, may dictate."
               "This comes of your early education, Stella," replied Francisco, with a shake of
                  the head. "To me it is all mysticism, or if I do comprehend your words, they seem
                  to be at variance with the general teachings of fra
                     Carlo."
               "I had indeed a superior teacher in the convent, and she often said I was an apt
                  scholar; but it was my first husband——."
               "Say your first lover, if you please," interrupted Francisco.
               "Well, well, God bless him! My first lover it was who talked to me thus, and
                  showed me how—though he admitted fra Carlo to be
                  a good man—it was for the interest of the priests to keep us blindfolded, lest,
                  seeing the unnatural course we are often compelled to pursue, we should rebel in
                  disgust, and, trusting to our own reason, spring at once to light and
                  liberty."
               "As did our Lula, who ere this, I dare say, wishes she was housed with her
                  companions, even in this lowly place," responded Francisco, musingly. "But Stella,
                  tell me truly, if you have no suspicions of the manner or through whom came the
                  rent and other favors we have received? If you knew, it would enable me to
                  ascertain why such have lately been withheld. I had a brother who went to Spain,
                  too, and doubtless was, like your lover, killed there; for it is now some years
                  since, and no tidings of him have reached me. If he were alive, I should almost
                  think we were indebted to him for what we have enjoyed." Here the montuno, forgetting his question, was lost in those
                  uttered thoughts which strode hard upon the heels of truth.
               When Francisco and Stella had finished talking, they found that Saffi had fallen
                  asleep with her grief; for on her cheeks were still resting large tears, while an
                  occasional long-drawn sigh gave further evidence of a heart overcharged with
                  sadness.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               FRANCISCO BOLARO, whom I have introduced in the preceding chapter as returning
                  with his fleecy charge from the valleys of the Apennines, was a poor
                  shepherd;—glad when his flock grew fat, and wool sold at a high price in the
                  market;—glad when the winters were not long, and spring opened early, and he was
                  again a-field and saw his little lambs cropping the young, tender grass, bright
                  and tender like themselves;—glad when returning at evening, the rose-tinted
                  twilight betokened a fair morrow; and usually happy when within his cottage door
                  he found fresh fruit, good bread, and vino
                     nostrale, on the neatly covered table, awaiting his coming. But
                  Francisco was not always contented, though many a peasant envied him his good
                  looks, his manly bearing, his becoming garb, and his apparent prosperity. During
                  whole hours,—aye, sometimes during whole days, he would, as he lay upon the ground
                  or rested on some convenient rock, ponder over what he might have been if born
                  under a lucky star—what he could be with his natural powers of mind working, for
                  instance, amid the charms of a high order of art. Yet the purity and loftiness of
                  his own character so harmonized with the natural beauty and grandeur of all that
                  was about him, had he, in such moods, been told that he was to leave all he had
                  for so many years daily contemplated, to dwell in palaces in cities, he would have
                  grown sick at the thought, and hesitated long ere he consented. When in his
                  happiest moods, he would say to himself,—"Think not, Francisco, of a higher
                  fortune, for bitterness often gathers in the cup of wealth, and degradation in a
                  title. Supposing I lived in the frescoed halls of the rich marble palace of the
                  Dorias, which, girded with its garden walks, looks out on our fair blue sea, I
                  might think only of the decrepid hand and the gaunt form of old Antonio who
                  painted them; while now, the ever-changing frescoes on the uncolumned arch above,
                  fill me with a reverential awe of the Great Designer. In the city I
                  should see richly carved stones and sculptured images piled up about me, and I
                  should only think of the man, perhaps, whose genius was there
                  displayed; or of the owner of this chiseled wealth, and bear in my heart envy and
                  covetousness; but here in this wild glen, cliff on cliff, mountain on mountain—the
                  walls of Nature's great temple, all in their heavenward reachings—refer me at once
                  to the Almighty, and fill me with a happy humility and dependence. The air, too, I
                  should breathe there, would be loaded with the exhalations of dirty streets and
                  filthy sewers; while here, I breathe the sweet breath of heaven. And what are the
                  reflections of those who stop on velvet carpets? Do they not say it is a rare
                  fabric, and came from the east, and cost so much the yard? But here I cannot put
                  my foot abroad, but I think of the good, great God who has carpeted the world. And
                  while I step on the rich grass I feel how unworthy I am to mar its tender life;
                  and I instinctively turn aside when bright flowers are in my way, lest I should,
                  in seeming presumptuousness, crush out their breath and beauty."
               
               Francisco's only brother and relative (whom we will call Joseppo), had in the wars
                  of Spain accumulated a large fortune. Few or none knew how he had been thus
                  successful, though some of that class who always educe evil from good—who believe
                  that there is wickedness in every act that is not proven to their minds to be
                  positively holy—said it must be by robbery and plunder. This supposition, however,
                  even in the absence of demonstrable evidence to the contrary, was not at all
                  justifiable; for Joseppo, as well as Francisco, had been piously educated by good
                  Catholic parents, and well educated, comparatively speaking, and in consideration
                  of their condition or rank.
               Joseppo Bolaro, on returning to his native Italy, invested a considerable portion
                  of his gains in lands in the Val de Mazzara, for which he obtained the proper
                  deeds; but fearing the disturbed state of the country he passed over into England,
                  where he secured the remainder of his fortune in the stocks of her bank. Little
                  time, however, was allowed to him for the enjoyment of his wealth. The chilly,
                  damp winds of the north, did not agree with him, and he resolved to retrace his
                  steps—build a splendid mansion on the estate he had purchased (of which he had
                  given his brother charge, though leaving him in utter ignorance of the owner), and
                  there pass the remainder of his days as quietly as circumstances would allow.
               "Man proposes, God disposes!" II Signor Joseppo, on the morning fixed for his
                  departure, found himself suffering from a nervous fever; but on the supposition
                  that if he sent for a physician he should soon be hurried to the end of a drama,
                  and be ultimamente noticed in a short paragraph
                  among the obituaries of the day, he resolved to await the crisis alone; or, in the
                  event of a very unfavorable turning, simply give notice to a gentleman with whom
                  he had had some commercial transactions, who could afford to him such aid as might
                  be requisite.
               Naturally suspicious and distrustful, the Italian procrastinated, but being urged
                  by his faithful servant (who was greatly alarmed at any slight illness his master
                  suffered), to consult at least with some friend, he assented to his seeking out
                  the merchant referred to above—who was no other than John Knox Calvin Smithers
                  himself.
               "Como estate, amico Smithers?" said the sick
                  man, rising up in bed as the merchant was announced.
               "O, don't speak to me in that hated Italian!" said Smithers, abruptly; "you are
                  aware that I cannot endure it; and as you have been here long enough to know our
                  language perfectly—even so that the most astute could not deceive you, (a close
                  observer could have seen a devil lurking in the speaker's eye—awakened at his
                  falsehoods and evil designs), I trust you will converse with me in our good, old,
                  honest English tongue; for there is something substantial in it, like its
                  people—something always frank and hearty—for instance, how are you, my good old
                  boy?" and as though really glad to see him, Smithers grasped him warmly by the
                  hand and expressed much sorrow at finding him thus prostrated. The whole of this
                  scene was so unnatural to Smithers that it did not escape the observation of the
                  Italian, who for an instant remained in wonder and doubt concerning its import; a
                  twinge of pain, however, recalled him to himself, and with his natural urbanity he
                  attempted, in broken English, to apologize for his state and conduct.
               
               "Pardon me, Mr. Smithers, my friend," said Signor Joseppo, "my brain is hardly
                  clear enough to make use of a language which is not my native one; yet, as you
                  dislike that of Italy, I will give you the best English I can command. First of
                  all, I beg you will excuse the trouble I have caused you, and allow me, as a
                  stranger in the land, to throw myself upon your generosity;—not that generosity
                  which involves the sacrifice of pounds and shillings, but the kindness and cordial
                  sympathy of true friendship."
               "I am your devoted servant," responded Smithers.
               "Be seated near me, then," said the Italian. "Tell me if I look ill;—shall I send
                  for a physician,—and what one?"
               "No," replied Smithers; "you do not look ill,—in fact, you look remarkably well,
                  and did I not find your hand a little warm, I should say you never had been in
                  better health since you came to this country. As for physicians, do not send for
                  any. They are a learned body of men, yet ignorant in their profession. Many of
                  them are good naturalists, good chemists, scientific men, but kill more than they
                  cure with their nostrums. There are able and justly distinguished
                     surgeons in our country, but when you talk of physicians—bah! they
                  are far inferior to old women. Indeed, if your good old mother—but I beg your
                  pardon, perhaps she is not old—was here (and here he uttered a good sentiment
                  which seldom escaped him unless by mistake), she would do more for you by her
                  mother's love, her kindness—more for your health by her knowledge of you from
                  childhood up—than all others in the world. Physician! No, no; do not have a
                  physician,—to-morrow you will be well again. In a day or two you will proceed on
                  your journey, and the property you have left in my charge shall be well cared for,
                  and the interest remitted to you annually."
               "You are too kind, Mr. Smithers; but you know not how ill I am—how I burn—how my
                  head throbs; I must have a physician, or I shall soon die. My mother—Mary Mother
                  bless her!—could and would save me were she here; but alas! she long ago was laid
                  in the 'Campo Santo,' beside my father, and I have now no relative living but a
                  poor brother, to whose child I have bequeathed all my property," was Bolaro's
                  reply.
               "Indeed!" said Smithers, manifesting an excess of interest, which did not escape
                  the Italian, but from which the speaker so soon recovered, that the impression it
                  made was effaced,—"only one relative living!—and that person,—far away, I
                  suppose?"
               "Yes, he is in the Val de Mazzara, a poor shepherd."
               "Does he know you have this large property here in England?" continued
                  Smithers.
               "No, he knows nothing of it here, nor even that I own the very land he lives on,
                  which I have given him charge of, and which I shall let him quietly enjoy while he
                  lives."
               "Then he knows nothing of your property?" and there stole into Smithers's mind the
                  idea that it would be very easy to surreptitiously obtain the Italian's wealth if
                  he should happen to withdraw from this world; and that, considering the state of
                  ignorance in which the relatives were left, they could not be considered as
                  virtually deprived of anything by the loss: and he mentally recited,—"where
                  ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise;"—a sentiment he was inclined to whistle
                  over, as one remarkably good and exceedingly applicable to the present case.
               
               "Not a syllable does he know; and my papers, deeds, all—fool that I was! I should
                  have left them all with him!—are so drawn that he who holds them can possess
                  himself of my property. To avoid one evil (I will not name it), I risked
                  everything in another, hardly thinking that the loss of the documents, theft, my
                  death, anything, might bestow all my wealth upon strangers and villains;" and he
                  looked searchingly at Smithers. "But you will,—you, who
                  have been so kind to me,—you will restore them all to my brother, if anything
                  should happen to me?" Some strange ideas seemed then to be casting a lurid light
                  along the sick man's brain; he suddenly bade adieu to Smithers, begging him
                  to-send a physician, and turned on his pillow to rest.
               "Be composed, my dear Bolaro," replied Smithers; "I will do all you require, and
                  if I can be of any present service to you, you may command me. To-morrow I will
                  bring my own physician with me, and I doubt not in two days you will be well."
               But Smithers, as he took his leave, did doubt if the man would ever recover; and
                  though he imagined that he should be shocked at the idea of wishings a
                  fellow-mortal dead, he nevertheless hoped in his heart that Bolaro would die. "If
                  he should die," said Smithers to himself, as he moved almost unconsciously through
                  the streets towards his home, "he will leave his property in my hands, in which
                  case I can use it till I discover who the heirs are; and as they are in a foreign
                  country it will take a long time to ascertain;" and he chuckled at the idea, and
                  convinced himself that it was all right that Bolaro should die, and that Bolaro's
                  wealth should be his—his by one of those fortuitous events which men call good
                  luck; though he would have been very loth for any one to know how
                  such good luck had happened to him.
               At that moment, in the humble cottage in the Val de
                     Mazzara, sat Francisco Bolaro, little dreaming of the sorrows of his
                  rich brother, reposing on the softest of beds in one of the best apartments in
                  Fitzroy square; not having the remotest conception that there could be in the
                  whole circuit of the human family, one who could be so basely plotting against the
                  prosperity of his poor inoffensive Saffi, and the life of his own brother. Had he
                  known all this, it might have added to his despondency, though he would in his
                  heart have thanked God that he was not rich.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               A YEAR passed away, and Alfierdermo returned to England. Reaching London, he took
                  lodgings in the most fashionable part of the town, resolved on trying the gaieties
                  of the capital as an antidote to an aimless existence—an ennui which he found neither travel nor all the fascinations of his
                  native land could dispel.
               On the evening of his arrival, Alfierdermo received a note from Mr. Smithers,
                  soliciting the pleasure of his company to a wedding festival. Thinking it a good
                  opportunity by which to make a commencement in his new career, he accepted the
                  invitation; and wishing to pay his respects to his old friend's family, he was
                  early set down at that gentleman's door.
               Mrs. Smithers was always the first to welcome visitors—to impress them favorably
                  if she liked them, or put a damper on their ever presuming to call again if she
                  disliked them. Alfierdermo was received most cordially. He had come opportunely,
                  and the lady made use of his visit to allay some ill-feeling that existed between
                  her and her husband, but which she could not wholly conceal—her looks being
                  fierce, and her words bitter, whenever she referred to him. During the course of
                  her conversation, which she tried to make quite impresse, she several times referred to the hypocrisy and deceit of
                  a person well known to them; while the sinfulness of her neighbors—the iniquity
                  that everywhere abounded, sending its pestiferous influence even into her sacred
                  circle—she dwelt upon in dismal tones, though with looks of doubtful import.
               It is hardly gallant to say that the young Italian felt great relief when the
                  carriage was announced, and Mr. Smithers descended to the parlor to take him away
                  to the appointed place of festivity; but it was nevertheless so. On turning to
                  take a momentary adieu of the lady, he noticed that the looks which were passing
                  between her and her husband betokened "war to the knife."
               "I hope now," said Mr. Smithers, as they drove along the dark London streets, "you
                  have come to take up a permanent residence with us, and enter into the truly
                  ennobling commercial life.
               "No, Mr. Smithers, I have not," said Alfierdermo; "for business is not suited to
                  my taste—has no agreement with my education, habits of thought, or mode of life.
                  My father was a poor boy, and took to business from necessity—the necessity at
                  first of maintaining himself, which resulted in other necessities. There devolved
                  upon him the care of an indigent mother, then that of his own growing family,
                  whose standing in society became the bane of his existence; for he believed it
                  could only be established by wealth, and the trappings that are usually made to
                  adorn this hollow, meagre, unsatisfying, soulless chucheria."
               "Oh, oh, Signor Fiello! so perhaps you would give me a slap over another's back,
                  would you?" replied Smithers hastily.
               
               "No, I assure you, I do not think it gentlemanly to 'slap' people," said
                  Alfierdermo, "though I perhaps do not understand your meaning."
               "Perhaps you think it is such a one I gave you in the garden once," continued
                  Smithers, "but you are mistaken; I meant merely a reproof, so applicable to me,
                  that it was applied to another" for effect. You pretend to think little of wealth,
                  and abuse your own father for having obtained it. What would you have been—from
                  whom would have come your fine clothes, and your education, and all the refinement
                  you boast of, if your father had not had wealth?"
               "Excuse me," replied Alfierdermo, much affected by the words Mr. Smithers had just
                  uttered; "I did not intend any reproach to my good father, nor to exhibit any
                  ingratitude for the innumerable favors he has conferred on me, nor to express any
                  contempt of commercial pursuits; on the contrary, I honor my father for his
                  uprightness in business," (and here Mr. Smithers shrugged his shoulders and
                  muttered to himself, "that's of little consequence"), "I respect him, for his
                  devotion to what he may have deemed duty, and I thank him—at least, it would seem
                  like crude ingratitude if I should not thank him—for my education. But, my dear
                  Sir, to tell you the truth, it seems to me that what has been placed in my head
                  has been almost a curse to me, or else my nature is most unhappy. My father, with
                  his millions, has no contentment; he is literally wearing himself out in a
                  struggle for greater wealth, or what is to him synonymous, 'respectability.' He
                  has no enjoyment but in erecting to his name a hollow trunk that will only echo
                  his deprivations,—rearing up a tinseled frame-work, which will crumble around him;
                  yielding him neither comfort nor support in the hour of his dissolution."
               "Really, I begin to feel," said Mr. Smithers, "that your education
                     has done you no good; for what is there in the world
                  like wealth? Wealth! come by it as you will, gains for you the profound respect of
                  everybody. The rich court you, the poor worship you; and though you obtain your
                  treasures by the most cutting villany, the means sink beneath, and are buried
                  forever under the mountain of your visible, tangible worth. With wealth, my dear
                  Fiello, you can buy kingdoms and their kings; can sway, as do our bankers at the
                  present time, the destinies of Europe. This is not all; for the very thing we are
                  said most to lack is most at our service—Intellect. Yes; the whole talent of the
                  land is at our disposal; there is not a brain but will distort itself, nerve
                  itself for us, as much as though it was in our own craniums."
               "You say much that is true, Mr. Smithers," responded Alfierdermo, "but there is a
                  vast deal that to you remains covert, a vast deal beyond all you have touched
                  upon, which a mind of a very different structure from yours can alone grasp. The
                  possession of wealth on its broadest vantage ground, has no element of virtue; it
                  prompts to no noble deeds; its aspirations are of necessity earthly, grovelling,
                  sensual; its relations are external and gross. Confine you in a prison with all
                  the wealth of the world, and it would be of no consolation to you, for there you
                  would be deprived of all the relations that rendered it valuable. When descending
                  from the sunny hill-side of life, and the gate opens on the dark valley of the
                  shadow of death, wealth's golden wings on which you may have floated merrily for awhile, turn to huge bolts of
                  iron that rivet you to earth, and true to its character, as exhibited in life,
                  impedes every attempt of the soul's upward flight; but bestow on a man the
                  treasures of intellect—in the dungeon, in the crowded world, he enjoys it all—he
                  communes with his own spirit, with Nature, and his God; and when the shroud that
                  is to enwrap his final dissolution gathers about him, the glory of the spirit
                  land, into which he has had but a glimpse in his earthly career, dawns on his
                  embryo intellect, and charms him into heaven. O! would to God my mind could grasp
                  all knowledge of things here! I should then deem myself almost fit to be like
                  Enoch translated; but, could I have the wealth of the Indies, as the cost of all
                  my mental energies, I would reject the offer, as I would a proffer for my soul,—as
                  Christ did the arch fiend's offer of the whole world."
               The energy with which the last sentence was uttered astonished Mr. Smithers, for
                  he had never seen the like in Alfierdermo; and now, with mouth and eyes wide open,
                  with body bending towards the speaker, as though some faint yet terrible ray of
                  light had pierced his benumbed brain, he exclaimed, "Alfierdermo, you are
                  mad!"
               "If the mass of mankind who give their whole souls to the attainment of riches are
                  sane, then, indeed, Mr. Smithers," responded the Italian, "I confess that I
                     am mad. Perhaps I should more freely admit my incapacity to
                  comprehend what you term the rationalis of
                  existence, for I admit that even in my Own 'Land of Fancy' they call me a dreamer.
                  Some say, however, that I am vastly proud, when perchance I am only taciturn, from
                  lack of the companionship of those who are molto
                     simpatica, while others from the same cause adorn my name with a
                  category of titles that are led by stupidity and worthlessness. The brawny
                  blacksmith looks contemptuously on my puny arm, the while he thinks I despise him
                  because his hands are hard. Each one who toils for his daily bread, the poor man,
                  the uneducated man, who know me not, would, if they dared, spit on me in derision,
                  because my garb is finer than theirs, my hands whiter, and my air one of affluence
                  and idleness. If they are just, then I confess that I am not sane."
               "I have much to ask you about your father, and about business," resumed Mr.
                  Smithers; "for you have been a long time absent; but as we are on a subject which
                  we have never previously broached, let us continue it. Tell me truly, I beg, if
                  you do not think that such men as your father, who labor to supply the means by
                  which you are clothed and fed, are not, at least, partially justified in their
                  hatred of you, and of all who idle away their precious time?"
               "Far from it," replied Alfierdermo. "A man who does nothing does better than he
                  who robs his neighbor. Merchants, traders, speculators, bankers,
                     produce nothing. Their wealth is derived from getting the
                  advantage in the simple, inglorious business of exchanging the
                  products or gains of others; and if there is not a surplus of
                  property in the world, he who gets more than his share has robbed others of
                  theirs. My father is of this class, and though I love him as my father, I could
                  never condescend to follow in his footsteps."
               
               "Dare you speak thus disrespectfully of your good father and his occupation?" said
                  Smithers, with some astonishment and chagrin.
               "I speak what I know to be the truth, and if parents or friends
                  cannot stand by it, they must fall," responded Alfierdermo, firmly. "But let me
                  continue—
               
                  Producers are noblemen! They seldom, if ever, receive more than,—and
                  generally fall short of,—the just reward of their labors. They hold a high and
                  sacred place in the great Temple of the Universe, and though its broad pavements
                  may again be blessed by a footstep of the Saviour, I am sure they
                  will never be scourged from its sacred precincts; others may be—as exemplified in
                  the money changers of the Temple of Jerusalem. Farmers, mechanics,
                  artists, authors, are producers. The former labor for our physical, the latter for
                  our mental necessities. If the former discontinued their productions, we should
                  die; if the latter, discontinued theirs, we should be worse than dead—images of
                  the Deity grovelling with uncultivated intellects in degradation and
                  brutality.
               "Go on, my young friend," said Smithers; "perhaps, by and by I shall see daylight
                  through the fog of your eloquence."
               "Thank you!" responded Alfierdermo; "and if you will allow me, I will say more in
                  self-defence."
               "Go on," said Smithers, again.
               "I will, then," resumed the Italian, "show you, that while the mere exchanger of
                  other men's products is inferior to the farmer, mechanic, artist, and author, the
                  two latter are superior to the former; for while the farmer and mechanic labor for
                  the temporary necessities of the body which perishes, the artist and author
                  enlarge, refine, exalt the soul which never dies. We obtain a momentary sensual
                  pleasure from eating and drinking, but the food which the artist and scholar give
                  us is divine and immortal—will impart beauty and nourishment to the spirit, till
                  the Great Central Mind is no more.
               "Fancy and forethought! Powers perverted! Shall I reply to your Italian ideas?"
                  said Smithers.
               "One moment more, and I have done," responded Alfierdermo; "for I have yet to say
                  that I can give proof to the bold assertion, that these dreamers, as they are
                  called, often work out, in some idle moment, more lasting benefits—benefits which
                  will descend to and bless all posterity—than those muscular frames I have referred
                  to, could do in ages. I would also acknowledge my indebtedness to that class of
                  people (including poets, painters and sculptors), for the infinite variety and
                  exquisiteness of joys I have experienced in this world. It is true, that those
                  whose refinement and delicacy of sentiment enable them to enjoy the compositions
                  of a Mozart, a Raphael, a Praxiteles, or those beauties of nature which the
                  Creator has lavishly spread on all hands—suffer, also, intensely from the
                  discords, crudities, and deformities met with in the walk of life."
               "Such people we call Nambies," said Smithers.
               "Write me down, then, a Namby," replied Alfierdermo; "but give me credit for not
                  claiming any merit in, the case."
               "I will not give you Italians credit for a modesty which I think you do not
                  possess," responded Smithers.
               
               "You spoke, a little while ago," resumed Alfierdermo, "of people like my father
                     hating such persons as I have just been attempting to defend; give
                  me credit, at least, for hating no one, and not intentionally by look, deed, or
                  word, injuring the feelings of a single fellow-traveller to eternity. This,
                  however, does not imply that I would or could make them all my companions and
                  associates. Many of them, though better in heart, in purpose, than myself, I could
                  not consort with, because our tastes, our sentiments, and education are widely
                  different."
               "I think," replied Mr. Smithers, "that I begin to understand you a little, Signor
                  Fiello; but you are entirely on the wrong track. Your scent is keen, but you
                  follow the wrong game. You are sensitive, but to no purpose. Turn your thoughts to
                  business, and you will find that these good, hardy, working men, are fit
                  companions for kings; your life will be one to be envied, and the
                     respect of the whole world will follow you to your grave."
               "I am sorry we so widely differ, Mr. Smithers," said Alfierdermo; "but the
                  carriage stops, and you have not even told me who are the happy couple whose
                  bridal eve you bring me to joy in."
               "That's of no consequence now, for you will soon see for yourself; and if it does
                  not recall old times in England, I miss my reckoning."
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               ALFIEDERMO stepped from his carriage into a Corinthian colonnade of one of the
                  most stately mansions of the great metropolis. Brilliant lights illuminated every
                  apartment; liveried servants thronged the great halls and marble stairways, and
                  the gay, laughing, loving groups that at every turn attracted his attention,
                  bewildered him by their dazzling beauty; though, like the breeze that ripples only
                  the surface of the glassy lake while the depths remained tranquil as thought,
                  touched not the undercurrents of his heart.
               Smithers led the way, but in passing the open door of the grand saloon,
                  Alfierdermo was arrested by a faint cry of "Fiello!"
               "She recognises you," said Smithers, turning and pointing to a lady, who, in her
                  strange but now pallid loveliness, seemed looking for support.
               "My God!" wildly exclaimed Alfierdermo, as his eager gaze reached the fair
                  creature who had pronounced his name; and in an instant he was kneeling beside the
                  fainting form of Aluine, the bride.
               
               The guests were now in the greatest consternation. Some threw up the windows,
                  others ran for water; while the bridegroom, hastening to his chamber to obtain
                  some favorite smelling-drops, left to the most active and interested ested an opportunity to chafe the hand, smoothe the
                  brow, and put back the dark curls from the alabaster forehead of the gentle
                  sufferer. Alfierdermo was the one; and who could have done it more gently, more
                  tenderly than he? But ah! there was no one present who, could they have known the
                  shrieking agony of his heart at that moment, would have been the young Italian.
                  Was the hand cold? It sent fire to his brain. Did that face look like death? He
                  read in it his all—his life. Were her lips speechless? They spoke to him of love
                  and despair. Was her form insensible? To him it was the adored impersonation of
                  sensibility. Were her eyes closed? 'Neath the dark lashes which lay like a long
                  silken fringe on her pallid cheek, they were burning into his very soul.
               "Shall I make you acquainted with Mr. Jones?" said Smithers to Alfierdermo, as the
                  husband returned with the smelling-bottle. The Italian, still Holding the hand and
                  gazing into the sufferer's face, as though his own existence was treasured there,
                  heard nothing.
               "I will relieve you now, sir," said the husband to Alfierdermo. "Ah! is it
                  possible?—is it you, my young friend, whom I met a year ago on a like occasion? O,
                  she will soon recover under your pleasing care, no doubt, but let her inhale this,
                  and it will aid you much," and Mr. Jones applied unsparingly the remedy he had
                  procured, and had the satisfaction of restoring the sufferer to immediate
                  consciousness.
               Did the young bride dream? No, but still, at first, she feared so. Was it a
                  reality? Finding her slender fingers actual prisoners in those of Alfierdermo—who,
                  regardless of any one's presence but Lorma's, remained kneeling before her—she
                  burst into tears, too happy and too wretched to conceal her emotions.
               "Be comforted, my dear wife," said Mr. Jones; "it is but a momentary dizziness
                  from which you will soon recover. Exert yourself all you can, for our numerous
                  guests are anxious about you."
               Aluine heard the last word her husband uttered, which called her to a sense of
                  propriety, and warned her of her sad part in the drama of which she was
                  unfortunately the heroine. She saw that to remain longer as she then was, was
                  perfectly injudicious, and she instantly withdrew her hand;—not however without
                  giving its late tender cage one gentle pressure of recognition, love, and
                  gratitude.
               The resolutions which Alfierdermo had recently made had now all vanished. The
                  passion which for a year he had manfully struggled against, returned with all its
                  fascinating power. If he could have gone back but half an hour, and known what was
                  before him, he would have committed suicide rather than subject himself to another
                  such trial. But now he was convinced that it was all too late;—that he could not
                  again stifle the wild yet sweet delirium with which this fair silver dove filled
                  his soul;—that he could not put out the light which God himself had kindled in his
                  bosom by the perfection of His own handiwork, and which he felt was as pure and
                  holy a flame as that which descended from heaven to light the sacrificial fire on
                  the altar of the humble, trusting, worshipping Abel. Had he and Aluine ever spoken
                  of love?—ever exchanged vows of constancy?—ever sworn fidelity to each other?
                  Never.
               There are minds, souls, hearts—or whatever you may call them—of a like genial
                  nature, made by the Almighty for each
                  other. When they meet—without sign or word—they commingle. Their active element is
                  a subtle, involuntary, uncontrolable, indefinable, permeating electricity or finer
                  magnetism—the divine element which constitutes their likeness to Him
                  who fashioned them;—an element which recognises neither space nor time—a lofty,
                  abiding principle which distinguishes man from the brute.
               Aluine and Alfierdermo had met once,—they had looked into each other's eyes, and
                  from that moment their hearts never separated. No waking hour ever passed by them
                  which was not perfumed by their sweet thoughts of each other; and if a night
                  glided away in which there was no cognate dream of their first meeting, the
                  morning was one of sadness and fear. Alfierdermo had twice crossed the Alps,—had
                  basked in the sunny smiles of the fair daughters of the south,—had seen, been
                  with, caressed his betrothed; but the summit of Mount Blanc was not colder than
                  his heart towards them all. The rosy valleys of his native land could not chain
                  his feet; their beauty and brightness were a mockery; and when twelve long tedious
                  months had taken their last leaden-footed steps, he resolved to try the
                  dissipations of London and drown, if possible, the truly sacred yearnings of his
                  generous heart.
               Having seen our hero's second advent in the great capital, we will follow him only
                  a little further, then leave him, to take up those whom we have so long neglected;
                  as we shall have arrived at the date of time when they figure with those whom we
                  have here introduced.
               Mrs. Smithers being set down from her private carriage, reached the saloon just in
                  time to see her half-sister withdraw her hand from Alfierdermo's—see her burst
                  into tears while the youth was still at her feet;—and all that, on the very night
                  of her marriage.
               "Scandalous! scandalous!" exclaimed Mrs. Smithers, loud enough to be heard by half
                  the assembly; and without deigning to approach the subject of her animadversion,
                  sailed most dignifiedly down to the extremity of the apartment, where,
                  encountering several ladies of sufficiently aristocratic bearing to be included in
                  her clique of respectability," she resumed:—"How dare she disgrace herself, and
                     me, by such outrageous conduct! It comes, I suppose, from being
                  called pretty, and the lack of that moral tone of education under which I was
                  reared. I have a great mind to leave the house instantly!"
               Mrs. Smithers's listeners had not the slightest objection to her going as soon as
                  she found it convenient; but there was something more than Mrs. Smithers was
                  willing to confess, which kept her there. Shall I expose the piety of this woman,
                  which was only prominent in speech; or if in action, only because there had been
                  no temptation laid in her way to make her otherwise?—a reason in truth why the
                  most homely women are usually the most severely virtuous;—priding themselves upon
                  that of which they know not the uncomplimentary cause.
               Mrs. Smithers bit her lips sharply when she saw the young Italian rise from his
                  knees, and turn his face towards a window to hide the tears that were coursing
                  down his cheeks,—and thus communed with herself:—"I believe the little sill vixen
                  loves him! He is not very handsome, but then he has such a heavenly
                  expression!—still what right has she to think of him,
                  when she is just married to that noble
                  and wealthy Mr. Jones? I shall look after her—it is my duty, and shall report to
                  her husband if I see anything wrong. Perhaps the best way to manage the whole
                  thing will be to make an intimate and confidant of Alfierdermo himself. Yes, I
                  will do it! I am resolved, and by this means I may save my sister's
                  respectability. I will go at once to him—I will invite him I home in my carriage—I
                  will make him take tea with me every evening; and I know, as he is so affectionate
                  and gentle, he will, by his many little attentions, supply the place of Mr.
                  Smithers, whose everlasting business prevents his being in the least degree like a
                  lover. I know I shall like him well enough to exert myself to keep him from my
                  sister, and if I succeed I may save a soul from perdition. He is a dear fellow!
                  I'll go now and speak to him; but first let me recall his conduct this evening.
                  When he first took my hand, he certainly pressed it warmly to his lips; but that
                  is Italian custom. He said, too, it had been a long time he had not had the
                  pleasure of seeing me; that he hoped I had not forgotten him. And when he took his
                  leave, he certainly looked much which he might have
                     spoken if Mr. Smithers had not been present. Now he's reached the
                  alcove, I'll go to him at once and we'll chat there alone and undisturbed."
               Mrs. Smithers hastened to make herself agreeable to the Italian, while Aluine,
                  chiding herself for that exhibition of emotion which she feared had betrayed too
                  much of her heart, tried by renewed assiduity to restore cheerfulness to her
                  guests. But she moved not from the apartment where Alfierdermo was, nor did she,
                  with all her powers exerted to the contrary, fail to frequently cast a glance at
                  the alcove which contained him.
               Mr. Jones was too happy to notice that his young bride assumed a gaiety she did
                  not feel,—or that Signor Alfierdermo had a
                  hiding place which commanded a view of her every movement; or that she spoke when
                  near the alcove—of "friends we love,"—of "welcome foreigners," or "we shall know
                  those who love us, for they will come often to see us."
               Aluine was for the first time in her life practicing deceit. Her situation, for
                  the first time, perhaps, compelled her to do it. Unbeknown to herself, from the
                  first time she saw Alfierdermo, he was her betrothed. If she confessed this to her
                     lawful husband, it might make him wretched; to withhold the
                  confession from the Italian might drive him mad, and her kindness of heart forbade
                  her grieving either. But it will be asked—why did she marry one whom she did not
                  love? We must explain.
               We remember that Mr. Jones, at first meeting Aluine, was deeply smitten by her
                  beauty and resolved to make her his wife. He was amiable, wealthy, and much
                  respected; and none would have considered his chance doubtful. Having obtained
                  permission to visit her at her father's house, he availed himself of it to the
                  full extent courtesy permitted,—which soon became very often, since Aluine's
                  parents were charmed with the suitor. Bred almost entirely in the country, and a
                  perfect stranger to the philosophy of love—to its emotions, hopes, fears,
                  longings—she regarded Mr. Jones with a kind of sisterly tenderness, and at length
                  looked up to him as to her father, for he so sedulously studied her wants and
                  gratified them, that she oftener appealed to him than to Mr. Lathmon, when any
                  special caprice was to be satisfied. Months rolled on, and though the youthful Italian filled her
                     heart, Mr. Jones filled her head; and when she gave her consent to
                  a union with the latter, it was in all honesty and sincerity. The love she bore
                  Alfierdermo, she thought but a trick of the fancy; while the respect she felt for
                  Mr. Jones, she concluded would be the real and bona fide sentiment necessary to wedded bliss. Had she
                     known her own heart, she would have given it to the dogs rather
                  than acted as she did; for she knew no guile, and was as perfect a creature as
                  ever the Almighty fashioned for our admiration. If blame could attach to either,
                  it was to Mr. Jones; for with his experience in the world, he could know for a
                  certainty whether the innocent, unsophisticated Aluine Lorma could find her whole
                  world in him; or whether there was not something which her peculiar temperament,
                  and excessive native refinement, would not be obliged to seek after elsewhere than
                  in his character, for their gratification.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               FROM his retreat, Alfierdermo watched every motion of Mrs. Jones. "Mrs. Jones!" he
                  would repeat again and again to himself;—"No, it is my Aluine I gaze
                  on! Oh God! is she not beautiful? Did not heaven intend her for me? Why this fate
                  so cruel? Why has my happiness, (happiness is all we live for here),
                  been sacrificed to my father's ambition for a name? My wife's title and wealth—her
                  ancestral name—he deemed all sufficient; and claimed my obedience to his will,
                  because he was my father, and had given me life and education; neither of which I
                  asked him for, nor would have accepted at such high cost. Oh heavens! what sin
                  have I committed, that I must endure all this."
               Lost in such reflections, he only heard the sound of Mrs. Smithers's voice, but
                  recognized no word she uttered; while the lady, alternately growing pale with
                  jealousy, or red with anger, at the incoherent answers the young Italian returned
                  to her earnest speech, felt her heart more deeply interested in the work she had
                  engaged in, than she herself had anticipated.
               The hour grew late, the last of the guests were retiring, yet Alfierdermo
                  lingered. Mrs. Smithers had several times proffered her carriage; he thanked her
                  once, but still lingered; for he did not dare to trust himself to speak to Aluine, and could not endure the thought
                  of losing sight of her. The time, however, came. Aluine stood at the door, with
                  her back towards him, bidding adieu to some guests. He felt that he could approach
                  her unobserved, and in an instant take his leave and be out of sight. He had
                  calculated well for himself, but had not thought that the loved one might be taken
                  unawares. "Farewell, Mrs. Jones," said a faltering voice, as she, goddess-like,
                  half turned her beautiful neck at the sound of steps, while the hand that hung at
                  her side was seized and pressed passionately to lips that could not speak
                  more.
               Like a flash of vivid lightning, the "farewell" gleamed along the heart of the
                  hostess, and for an instant—as if pressed hard by the hand of death, her whole
                  form was bent towards the speaker. Could she have opened her lips she would have
                  said, "Take me—Oh, for heaven's sake, take me with thee!" but her brain Was an
                  undefinable chaos. With great energy, however, she in an instant rallied, and
                  turning her attitude into a low and respectful courtesy, caused Mr. Jones to see
                  in it all, nothing but the most bewitching grace; while the pallor which again
                  spread over her cheeks he believed to be caused by the fatigue of the evening.
               "Let us have the pleasure of seeing you often, Signor Alfierdermo," said Mr.
                  Jones.
               The young Italian dared not venture his voice to reply, but bowing more profoundly
                  than ever, when touching the hand of his soul's idol, he acknowledged the honor
                  done to him, and with a haste that hardly became his gallantry, he descended, with
                  Mrs. Smithers clinging to his arm, to the carriage that then "stopped the
                  way."
               "What is the matter, my little bird?" said Mr. Jones to his bride, seeing she did
                  not resume her usually erect position, and that she hung heavily on him; "You are
                  wearied to death with all this parade, to which you are so wholly unaccustomed."
                  Finding that she made no reply, and was sinking to the floor, he caught her in his
                  arms, and as if she had been a feather, bore her to her chamber. Several hours
                  elapsed before she fully recovered a consciousness of her whereabouts—then swooned
                  again, and so remained, watched by her kind husband and maid, till the golden
                  light of morning lit up the rich drapery of her bridal couch.
               Fiello Alfierdermo would have given much to have been alone, that he might relieve
                  with tears the agony of his soul, and call the lost Lorma by all the tender names
                  love can invent; but Mrs. Smithers, feeling it her duty to soothe his agitated
                  mind, had taken his hand in hers, while she poured out words of tenderness, which,
                  on any other occasion, or in any other person, would have shocked her religious
                  propriety to its very centre. The more indifferent Fiello appeared, the more
                  solicitous she became to win him to thoughts of herself. Not the slightest hope,
                  however, dawned on her suffocating spirits, till arriving at the hotel, the young
                  man took his leave, and in doing so pressed her hand warmly to his lips. The door
                  of the carriage then closed on a heart beating with happiness in the pious bosom
                  of Mrs. Smithers.
               Aluine had awakened in the morning as from a dream; yet she had not slept. She
                  gazed around her slowly, and apparently calmly, but the big tears that rolled from
                  her eyes spoke of some inward joy or sorrow. Finding that her husband still watched by her side, she felt a
                  strange pang of pity and regret, and said to him,—"Dear, kind husband, I hope you
                  will forgive me for my foolish weakness, and the trouble I have so unfortunately
                  and undesignedly caused you. You knew, however, that I was a spoiled child, and I
                  fear you should not have thought of me for a wife."
               "Do not regret anything, my little Aluine. I am quite contented so that you are
                  well again," replied Mr. Jones; "and now that you can do without me, I will go and
                  rest awhile."
               "Do so, kind sir, I beg of you," said Aluine; "think kindly of me, and resolve to
                  forgive all my follies."
               "It is rather a sad beginning," muttered Mr. Jones to himself, as he shut the
                  door, "but I suppose I did wrong to take the little unfledged thing from those
                  whose care has been peculiarly tender; in fact I know not what to do with her. She
                  needs the softest of hands to caress her, and the most choice and refined of
                  language to beguile her ear. All this I knew before I married her; yet, to possess
                  her, seemed of the utmost importance to my happiness. She will, however, soon
                  assimilate her tastes with mine; will like my fine horses, hounds, and friends,
                  and will become the gayest and most fashionable of our great city. Her beauty will
                  gain for me the envy of all. They will exclaim,—'What a lucky dog he is!' and
                  'Where could he have picked up so much loveliness!'" With these consoling thoughts
                  Mr. Jones went to his own apartment and slept most soundly.
               After an hour of earnest thought, and searchings into her own heart, Aluine
                  dismissed her maid, and rising from her bed, knelt down beside it, and prayed most
                  fervently to the Almighty for direction and aid. But what spirit seemed to mingle
                  with hers as she soared upward on the wings of Faith? It was Alfierdermo's. "Oh!"
                  she would say to herself, "if my dear Fiello was here, with one arm about my neck,
                  he would so fervently pray for a blessing on our heads, that the dear Saviour
                  would hear him. Here, kneeling beside me, with that divinity which I have read in
                  his face, the angels would not refuse to listen; and I know, I feel certain, that
                  the dear Virgin Mary would aid me while I prayed for him. There is something in my
                  breast which tells me I am his—that this step I have taken is a flaw in my
                  destiny; but Oh heavens! how can it now be altered?"—and wringing her hands and
                  burying her face in the downy bed, she again wept as though her very heart was
                  being riven asunder.
               Of a sudden she rose from her knees, while a bright light gleamed in her face, and
                  she exclaimed,—"It is not too late!—it is not too late!" then seizing a pen, she
                  wrote:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "ADORED FIELLO:—
                           
                           "Last night revealed to me again the course of my destiny. From the
                              evening I first saw you, I have been yours. I learned something of
                              your history after you left England, but supposing you would never
                              return, and not having looked into my own heart, I received the
                              attentions of Mr. Jones, and gave him my hand;—and until
                              I saw you last evening I did not know but that my heart
                              had gone with it. Oh cruel haste! Oh unhappy me!
                           
                           "There was a strange fatality in our second meeting, and you felt it.
                              What does it portend? After you left me last night, I fainted quite
                              away, and did not sufficiently recover to be without watchers till
                              this morning. The maid tells me that Mr. Jones sat by me and bestowed
                              on me all the attentions he thought necessary, and as soon as I
                              recovered, left me to rest himself. Can I not, then, break this
                              marriage bond? Mr. Jones is a kind man, and when I tell him where my
                              heart is, he will yield me up, and in a day will be as happy as ever
                              with his friends and his dogs. Write me instantly, I intreat of you,
                              while I remain ever yours,
                           
                              "ALUINE LORMA."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               It was very late when Alfierdermo descended from his chamber and found the letter
                  awaiting him. He did not recognize the hand, but when his eyes fell upon the
                  signature he pressed it to his lips, trembling with emotion; and when he had
                  possessed himself of the contents of the fair missive, he placed it in his bosom
                  and wept like a child. "Oh God! Oh God! why this new stroke?" he murmured to
                  himself; "why, oh why could I not sooner have known all this? But I cannot deceive
                  her. I will immediately write and tell her I am also married—though God knows I
                  would give my life's blood to spare her the pang it will awaken." When
                  sufficiently composed, he wrote:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Hotel, 7 o'clock, P. M.
                              "MY ADORED ALUINE:—
                           
                           "The dear, precious note which you sent to me this morning has but
                              just reached me. Could I but a month ago have known the contents of
                              it, we both might have been spared that bitterness which to-day fills
                              up our cup. In my late visit to Italy,—to gratify my father, to
                                 obey his commands,—I married the Marchioness Eulala
                              Corsano. I need not tell you how much of happiness there was in it;
                              for I immediately returned to England, for the purpose of drowning and
                              forgetting my double griefs. This explains all; but, Oh! dear,
                              precious Aluine, if you will call me friend, it will
                              allay something of the misery which consumes me; and if my friendship
                              can, in the remotest degree, tend to assuage the sorrows of your own
                              heart,
                           
                              "Believe me, eternally yours,
                              "FIELLO."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               In the deepest trepidation, Aluine had waited all the day for an answer to her
                  letter. At one moment she was confident that Alfierdermo was all her's—that she
                  had but to make a painful explanation to Mr. Jones, and then her real
                  life would commence; at another, she was cast down by fears, and doubted if any
                  permanent happiness was ever allotted to mortals.
               The long-expected missive at last arrived, and Aluine felt as though a huge iron
                  gate had risen between her and heaven—and her soul was crushed within her. "He
                  loves me," repeated Aluine many times to herself, "and he will be my friend; but
                  Oh! he cannot be my husband. Fly swift, Oh time, that I may meet him in
                  heaven!"
               Mr. Jones now entered the room to conduct his wife to dinner; but her palid
                  countenance, and the deep melancholy which hung over her like a veil, smote him as
                  would a voice of reproof from the other world. "I fear, my dear little Lorma," said he, "that you are not only ill,
                  but discontented in your new home. But don't get home-sick yet; to-morrow we will
                  take a turn in the country, and in the evening we will have a jolly set to dine
                  with us—all good fellows, anxious to make your acquaintance. Come now, cheer up;
                  and if there is anything I can get for you to add to your comfort, let me know,
                  and it shall be ordered at once."
               "You are too kind, Mr. Jones," replied Aluine, "for really I am not deserving of
                  it. I will, however, try to merit your esteem and retain your admiration, which is
                  a very important step towards making a wife contented. I doubt not your friends
                  are good and true; but you know I am rather more fond of retirement than gaiety,
                  and prefer eating quietly with you to sitting down with any number of gentlemen,
                  however jolly and witty they may be. But as you say I shall soon like all this, I
                  will not anticipate anything disagreeable."
               "Disagreeable! Mrs. Jones, do you say? You cannot for a moment imagine that the
                  fine-hearted gentlemen whom in friendship I style good fellows, and whom I select
                  for my companions, can be, or would be allowed to be, disagreeable?"
               "No, no. Not that, dear Mr. Jones; I only meant that they might not be suited to
                  my country tastes—my unsophisticated ideas. I will, you know I will,
                  try and love them all; do all I can to make them happy," and a shudder crept along
                  the nerves of this sensitive plant, as she thought of jollity and good cheer—the
                  life that was to administer to the whole physical appetite, but to the
                     soul nothing.
               Dinner passed quietly and soberly away, for there was an evident restraint on the
                  part of Mr. and Mrs. Jones, in the midst of a serious effort to be cheerful.
                  Aluine could eat nothing, though Mr. Jones enjoyed hugely (as the cook said) all
                  the dainty dishes that followed one another to his lavish board. He was indeed in
                  his element, but did not wholly neglect his young bride; and when not too much
                  occupied by his appetite, essayed to cheer her with witticisms, good stories, and
                  good wine. Aluine strove to receive it all as it was intended; but if she smiled,
                  it evinced no gladness of heart, and when Mr. Jones—having finished his
                  bottle—apologized for adopting his usual custom of smoking after meals, and she
                  was allowed to retire, she flew to her apartments with intense satisfaction, and
                  gave herself to prayer and to thoughts of Fiello Alfierdermo.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               MONTHS passed away, and Alfierdermo had given up all hopes of happiness in this
                  world, except that which he might derive from being near the angelic Aluine. Death
                  seemed far preferable to a life apart from hers; yet there was a kind guardian
                  spirit who constantly turned his thoughts when they ran in the current of
                  self-destruction, and placed in their stead some imaginings, though vague and
                  unsatisfactory, of a calm and joyous future. To be in the same street, town,
                  country with his idol, was something; but to be in her own house, and in her own
                  society—where he often found himself—was a species of opiate that seemed necessary
                  to his sanity. If he felt an occasional twinge of conscience—or rather a simple
                  consciousness that he was not obeying the lessons taught to him in his youth by
                  those who believed them to be true because they were ancient, but which his
                  superior judgment found to be unphilosophical and erroneous—in the remembrance
                  that he had deserted his lawful wife, he defended his conduct by
                  maintaining, that after he had obeyed his father's behests, it became his duty—his
                  solemn, religious duty—to do that for himself which alone could make life
                  supportable to him. He knew, too, that his Italian wife (by law) had
                  no particular fancy for him—their tastes being entirely dissimilar; and he was
                  aware that she would enjoy herself well without him,—that his absence could not
                  annoy, while his presence might sometimes be inconvenient to her.
               Signor Fiello Alfierdermo liked Mr. Jones much, as a good-natured, generous soul,
                  given to pleasure and the good things of this world; while Mr. Jones liked Signor
                  Alfierdermo because he was a gentleman, a man of great sensibility and refinement.
                  The very dissimilarity of character of these two persons seemed to
                  draw them together; and to the mansion of Mr. Jones the Italian was a free and
                  welcome guest,—the more welcome, since he could relieve the ennui and lassitude under which the lovely Lorma
                  appeared to be sinking. In his many visits, Alfierdermo often found the lady
                  alone—Mr. Jones being absent with his sporting friends—and then it devolved on her
                  to entertain him. The task to this noble and generous creature was, it may well be
                  supposed, a most pleasing one, for her whole soul was in it; and no cloud flitted
                  across the sunny field of her joy till the lateness of the hour compelled her to
                  bid her friend adieu.
               Lorma and Fiello understood well their relative positions. They knew their actions
                  were to be controlled by an unnatural and iniquitous law, framed by those who,
                  fearing they should not shake off all of the licentiousness of
                  barbarism, were ready to take any stride that bigotry and sectarianism might
                  suggest, even to the most impious innovation on the sacred rights of humanity. And
                  though this law (most strangely sanctioned by its very victims), with its stern,
                  soulless, Tartarus-born visage, stepped in between them and heaven-born happiness,
                  they yielded, for a while at least, to its mandates. They did not talk of love,
                     for they read it in silence in each
                  other's eyes. They did not often refer to Mr. Jones, for they tacitly understood
                  it would recall a world of vain regrets. Their conversation principally turned on
                  books—such as had garnered in them the riches of souls; such as played
                  harmoniously to them on the strings of the heart. Here indeed they were both
                  perfectly at home; and with the gentle wand of sensibility traced out in their own
                  bosoms, as on a map, the sympathetic rivulets of charity, the deep seas of sorrow,
                  the sunny pastures of benevolence, the arid deserts of jealousy and distrust, and
                  boundless continents of hope. No paragraph had ever been remembered by the one,
                  which had not been marked or noted by the other. Every sentiment had suggested the
                  same multitudinous thoughts—though in the one they were of a bold and energetic
                  character, while in the other they were mild and celestially seductive.
               The natural desire of all good hearts that are happy, is, that all the world may
                  be happy too. Fiello and Aluine loved all the world, and together would have given
                  their lives to have had harmony universally pervade it. Aluine would have prayed
                  through long, long nights for such, a consummation; but Fiello knew that the cause
                  of all the evil that reigned on the earth was attributable to man,
                  and not to the Deity; and that to man alone could he appeal as the
                  remedial agent. God created all things harmonious and beautiful; man, in his
                  ignorance and petty tyranny, had evolved discord and misery.
               With these lovers time passed rapidly away, and brought events and circumstances
                  to them as to others. On one of the most lovely of summer evenings, Aluine had put
                  aside the rich curtains of an open window of the grand saloon, and seated herself
                  on a lounge before it. Welcome to her were the cool and refreshing breezes that
                  from the garden beneath came up loaded with the perfume of myriads of flowers;
                  while the vast host of bright burning gems which studded the blue vault of heaven,
                  the goodness and greatness of the Creator, who must desire the happiness of all
                  his creatures—courted her into a contemplative mood. Finally her head slipped from
                  the hand that had been supporting it, and her reveries ended in sleep. Had she
                  studied an attitude of fascinating ease and captivating elegance, she could not
                  have been more successful. Her dress was of pure white, and of so fine a texture
                  that it fell about her round and dainty form as if moulded to its every line of
                  beauty. Her delicately-chiselled arm lay along the dark velvet cushion like a ray
                  of moonlight, while over it hung a raven curl that added to its whiteness and
                  witchery. Then came a breath of air more sportive than the rest, and as if intent
                  on making mortality irresistible, bore away a scarf from the sleeper's neck, which
                  now, in all its youthful lusciousness, gave fresh fragrance to the pilferer. Was
                  there a doubt that satin smoothness and velvet softness characterized the swelling
                  bosom it had concealed? You would have sworn it to be polished ivory, had not its
                  rich billowings told that the flood and ebb of life were there.
               Signor Alfierdermo had passed the day alone, but finding solitude no longer
                  supportable, sauntered out for an evening walk, and soon found himself at the
                  house of his friend. The door was open, the porter for the moment absent, and,
                  more by accident than design, Fiello stood in the grand saloon unannounced. Should
                  he retreat, or apologize? was the
                  question he asked himself. The scene before him was one of such overwhelming
                  beauty, and so guarded by the power of virtue and innocence, that his first
                  impulse was to retreat; the second, which prevailed, was to remain and find an
                  apology in the purity of his own heart. In that same heart, however, he could not
                  find the wish to awaken the gentle creature;—so, for an unnoted time, he stood in
                  breathless admiration of the world of charms that one slight form enshrined. I
                  have used the word admiration; it should be adoration. He literally worshipped the
                  being before him, and at last, kneeling beside her, he bent over her to catch the
                  perfume of her breath, resolved thus to inhale the air of paradise, till she
                  became aware of his presence.
               There is no doubt that a current of animal magnetism is ever passing between true
                  lovers, however remote from each other may be their habitations; nor can there be
                  a doubt that those who are dear to us in the spirit-world are ever near to us and
                  influencing us by like affinities. So perfect was the harmony existing between
                  Aluine and Alfierdermo, she often was conscious of his approach long before she
                  could see him. At the very time he was kneeling beside her, the whole scene was
                  distinctly impressed upon her mind, though her physical frame slumbered soundly.
                  She breathed his name: and it is not strange she did so. She repeated it, and then
                  stretched out her unoccupied arm till it rested on the neck of her worshipper. The
                  treasures of earth and sea—the very dominion of heaven, could not have made him
                  happier; and with all the calmness his wildly throbbing heart could command, he
                  awaited further developments. Soon the dream seemed closing—she drew him towards
                  her—their lips met, and she awoke. Aye, but not with a start and a scream, but
                  with a sincerity which was trebly captivating;—and her pure silvery voice broke
                  the silence by saying: "Even as I dreamed, so have I found thee."
               Till this hour, Alfierdermo had adored his idol from afar. He knew the various
                  prejudices and scruples she had imbibed with her English education, and he had
                  respected them—showing the utmost deference to her notions of propriety, and so
                  guarding himself in word and deed, as never, in the slightest degree, to disturb
                  her most acute susceptibility. But now, all barriers seemed broken down; and in
                  the ardour and natural impetuosity of his heart he folded her to his bosom as
                  though he would absorb her into himself. He kissed her forehead, her eyes, her
                  cheeks, her chin, her yet uncovered shoulders, her taper fingers, her snowy arms.
                  She forgave him, because she loved him, and knew the purity of his heart; but she
                  chided him for another's sake.
               "Signor Alfierdermo—may I say, my dear Fiello?" said Aluine, gathering her escorf
                  about her heaving bosom,—"for the respect we owe to one who is my legal
                  husband—for all that is due to society in which we live, let this be the last time
                  you pass those bounds you have heretofore, in all kindness and gentleness,
                  observed. You are ever welcome to our hearth and our board, while to you I am
                  indebted for all the charm of our social circles: let this suffice."
               "Dearest of beings!" passionately exclaimed Alfierdermo,—touched by the gentleness
                  and sincerity of the reproof, "I own that to be in your presence is happiness
                  enough; and should I be deprived of that, I could desire nothing but
                  annihilation."
               
               "Annihilation. Fiello! Oh, you do not mean that! For all that supports me in the
                  life I now lead, is the internal assurance I possess, that a purer world is to be
                  my inheritance—a state where all that my mind now yearns for will be its element,
                  and where all the flowers that bloom will yield that rich perfume my soul so much
                  covets. You, you Fiello, will be my bright winged companion. This is what I hope
                  for, long for; pray for; and the thought even of annihilation is
                  painful, and seems sinful to me."
               "A purer spirit than yours, beautiful Lorma, never winged its way to the portals
                  of heaven," said Alfierdermo, "and all you anticipate, in so far as your own dear
                  self alone is concerned, you will enjoy; but when I spoke, I was thinking of the
                  long sunless years I perhaps had to live here without you—years of anguish, and of
                  unavailing misery. My father may at any moment order my return to Italy;
                  circumstances may deprive me of your society, and to "rid myself of such an
                  existence, I thought annihilation would be sweet. But when you, by your divine
                  words, your ardent faith, bid me look heavenward, I am resigned to the bleakest
                  fortune; while the bright hope that my companionship will be a portion of your
                  beatitude hereafter, shall constitute the talisman of my earthly pilgrimage."
               "Be it so! my dear Fiello; and let us support, with calmness and resignation, the
                  life of wretchedness to which we are doomed," said Aluine, in a tone of profound
                  grief.
               "Doomed!" repeated Alfierdermo, thoughtfully, "doomed by whom? The expression
                  stirs in me a train of reflections, on which my mind for years has been bent. By
                  whom, think you, dear Lorma, you are doomed?—for it implies the right and power of
                  a superior being."
               "It is Heaven's will," replied Aluine, in the deepest sadness, "and I desire most
                  patiently to submit."
               "Then you believe that God has singled you out as one on whom to
                  display His particular displeasure?"
               "It would seem so, though it may be His mercy."
               "And what have you done?—you, the loveliest of mortals,—you, of but
                  seventeen years—you, born among and as innocent as the very lambs in your father's
                  fields:—what have you done that you should be condemned to a
                     whole life of misery, or afterwards, to an eternity of it?"
               "You ask me a question I cannot answer, my dear Fiello; for so far as I know my
                  own heart—and I admit that it may deceive me—I never had an evil thought against
                  any human being, but desired, sought after, prayed for the happiness of every
                  living thing."
               "I knew it, and therefore asked how you could reconcile Love and Mercy with the
                  avenging spirit you attribute to the Deity."
               "But, perhaps, by making us suffer here, He wishes to purify us, and prepare us
                  for more joy hereafter," continued Aluine.
               "That He selects one out of his family to purify—one already too pure for earth,
                  is manifesting a partiality so vastly at variance with justice and parental
                  beneficence, that it cannot find credence, nor be an element of the sublime faith
                  we have in a God all Nature proclaims to be good."
               "If 'evils spring not up from the ground,' from whence come then, those that
                  embitter my waking and sleeping hours, and to which time proffers no solace this
                  side the tomb?" asked Aluine, weeping.
               
               "All are the result of never-varying laws, of accident, or of our own actions,"
                  responded Alfierdermo. "God is good! His works, His laws were perfect from the
                  first. He fashioned this round ball, hove it out into boundless space, and bade it
                  whirl in order;—in order it has rolled on, and will roll on eternally, nor needs
                  His further mandate. Man He created perfect, and in His own image, and, endowing
                  him with reason—a divine principle of all-sufficient
                  potency—vouchsafes to him no further guidance or protection."
               "Say not so!" exclaimed Aluine, in trepidation; "for my soul would sink beneath
                  these waves of trouble, did I not feel that God heard my prayers, and sustained
                  me!"
               "Aye! He does hear thee, dear Lorma; and ages before thou wert born, did answer
                  thee; but to change the course of things, even at thy sweet pleadings, He will
                  not. I know that queens and beggar-mothers, through long, long nights, on their
                  knees, on the cold, damp stones of dungeons, in the tearful agony of their whole
                  souls have pleaded with the Almighty to save their husbands and children from
                  death; yet to death, ignominious and fearful, they were given. For eighteen
                  hundred years, the whole Christian Church has been asking for the conversion of
                  the Heathen, yet the so-called Heathen have not been converted."
               "Then, must I not pray, dear Fiello?"
               "Yes, angel Aluine, you must pray; for you have but just now confessed to me that
                  it sustained you; therefore, it is a blessing to you, as an acknowledgement of
                  dependence on a Supreme Being is to the whole human family. But we must add to our
                  prayer—'Thy will be done, not ours.'"
               "And is that all we must expect from prayer?" asked Aluine.
               "Is not that enough?." replied Fiello, affectionately. "Would you change the high
                  purposes of the Almighty? Does He not know, think you, the errand on which," He
                  has sent His creations?"
               "Indeed, indeed, I will be humble before Him!" responded Aluine, solemnly, as a
                  conviction crept into her heart, that she had been presumptuous.
               "The same rough storm," continued Alfierdermo, "that dashes on the rocks the too
                  ready bark, and drowns the shriek of the dying mariner, for whose safety are
                  ascending from fond hearts most fervid supplications, may be bearing to the bosoms
                  of others, forms equally dear. The mother, who, on this continent, prays for a
                  fair wind for her child returning from sea, would defer the happiness of another
                  mother on the other continent, praying, too, for her child's speedy
                  arrival. Were you the one whose happiness was delayed, would you not say, you were
                     doomed to suffer?"
               "God is love, and dooms no one to suffering; and a resignation to His eternal,
                     unchanging laws—not to an arbitrary and swerving will—is but
                  simple justice to Him, proper credit to our understandings, and the truest means
                  of avoiding mortal ills."
               "But how are we to know when we err, good Fiello?"
               "If you clasp the wild tiger in your arms, does he not tear you? And if you fold
                  to your heart that which is as apposite to its nature, is the result different?
                  Would you hug to your snowy bosom the scorpion that would sting you? And yet would
                  you nurse in your soul objects alike
                  deadly to your peace as those are to your body, and think to live happily?"
               Aluine buried her face in her hands as though some frightful being rose before
                  her; and as the tears trickled between her fingers, half pleading, half
                  imperatively, replied:—"Say no more, for heaven's sake, dear Fiello! for I
                  understand you; and while I see the truth, I recoil at it, because it so differs
                  from all I have been taught from childhood up. Say no more now, but let me think
                  and ponder well on what words you have already uttered, and when we meet again, I
                  will tell you my thoughts."
               "Forgive me, precious one, if my sentiments have caused you a tear. Far was such a
                  desire from my heart, though I own I would shake to its very foundations the rock
                  of custom on which you have tried to repose,—the want of confidence
                  in your Maker's goodness, and in his desire for your happiness. God has given you
                  your reason, mind, spirit—thus much of His own image—to guide you, and He will not
                  stay you in your course, seeking the evil or the good; else He would have stood
                  between Eve and temptation, when she put forth her hand to pluck the fruit of the
                  tree of knowledge. But I cannot but believe that if He ever mourns, it is to see
                  the power of custom, the laws of a stiff-necked generation, usurping the place of
                  that seat in our souls He himself had dedicated to Wisdom."
               "What, then, would you have me do, dear Fiello?" said Aluine, anxious, yet still
                  afraid, to continue the subject.
               "Search out the origin of your feeling that your Creator desires you to live a
                  life of misery here. Why, if in ignorance you grasp the burning iron, you should
                  cling to it though it shrivels the flesh to the bones, and makes the once fair arm
                  a pitiable member of the body it should happily adorn. Ask yourself whether there
                  is anything more diabolical than the power, whether it be civil or religious by
                  name, which forces you to drag out in bitterness of heart your whole existence,
                  because in a moment of youthful indiscretion you made a wrong choice—because you
                  were not infallible, while infallibility is a prerogative of God
                  only. In all else, one is allowed to change his mind and condition; but here, an
                  arbitrary, disinterested, inhuman, dogmatical edict, or statute, assumes a power
                  over an immortal creature God intended his judgment alone should assume."
               "Alas! alas!" responded Aluine, "it is too true; the Reason, the Soul, is
                  thenceforth useless as regards one's condition, when once within the pale of that
                  infamous law; infamous, I perceive, for in its crude length and breadth, it claims
                  the right to crush within our own bosoms our immortal spirits. But pardon me now;
                  I am too confused to talk, or hardly think of, the great field of thought now
                  opened before me. Go, dearest Fiello, and when we meet again, I will have examined
                  attentively all you have in kindness spoken."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               
                  
                     
                        "Faint shadows lay along the way,
                        'Twas near the close of day,
                        And slowly there a lady fair
                        Was walking in her pride.
                        Alone walked she—but viewlessly,
                        Walked spirits at her side.
                     
                     
                        Peace charmed the street beneath her feet,
                        And Honor charmed the air;
                        And all astir looked kind on her,
                        And called her good as fair—
                        For all God ever gave to her
                        She kept with chary care.
                     
                     
                        She kept with care her beauties rare
                        From lovers warm and true—
                        For her heart was cold to all but gold,
                        And the rich came not to woo;
                        But honored well are charms to sell,
                        If priests the selling do.
                     
                     
                        Now walking there was one more fair—
                        A slight girl, lily pale;
                        And she had unseen company
                        To make the spirit quail—
                        'Twixt Want and Scorn she walked forlorn,
                        And nothing could avail.
                     
                     
                        No mercy now can clear her brow
                        For this world's peace to pray;
                        For as Love's wild prayer dissolved in air,
                        Her woman's heart gave way!—
                        But the sin forgiven by Christ in heaven
                        By man is cursed alway!"
                     
                  
               
               FOR several weeks. Aluine pondered over the subject she and Alfierdermo had last
                  discussed; and day by day, seeking the throne of grace for knowledge to guide her
                  in the ways of rectitude, approved by the Deity, became more and more convinced
                  that she had for years been unjust, to herself and to her Creator. Morning, noon,
                  and night, she would retire to her private chamber, and, kneeling by a chair on
                  which the Bible lay open, would pray: "Father in heaven! grant unto me that divine
                  light so essential to those who would traverse the paths of wisdom. Parent of
                  love! imbue my heart, animate my soul, with the spirit of every virtue that is
                  commendable in thy sight. God of truth! strengthen my faith, that I may be
                  victorious in my contest with evil. Almighty Ruler! calm the tempests that may
                  gather about me, and pillow my head on the true faith. Merciful Saviour! bring me
                  at last within the compass of thy grace, that I may dwell forever with Thee in
                  Paradise."
               At each meeting subsequent to the one in which Alfierdermo had commented on his
                  friend's faith, he questioned her closely in regard to the progress she made in
                  searching after truth; for he knew well that as the highest sense of moral
                  rectitude would ever constitute the basis of her actions, she never could find
                  happiness in this world till she had uprooted, overthrown, and buried in oblivion,
                  the unnatural—therefore not of God; the un-Christian—therefore not of
                  Christ—offices, or conventional forms, society, with its distorted fantasies, had
                  thrust upon her. If she continued in the belief that God designed that she, whose
                  soul was as pure an emanation of goodness as ever partook of mortality, (if we
                  except the child of the Holy Mary), should find this world a vale of thorns, she
                  would, with naked feet trailing the way with blood, walk down the path of life,
                  and welcome the tomb. This, Alfierdermo felt, was a sacrifice; little pleasing to
                  the sight of a loving, humane, and
                  consistent Creator; and he sought with a guileless heart to avert it.
               "Fiello," said Aluine, one evening, her eyes filled with tears, "I have this whole
                  day been praying to my heavenly Father to forgive me for having thought Him so
                  unkind towards one of his own feeble children. I am convinced that my wretchedness
                  was never designed by Him; and that its remedy is within my own power. Still the
                  thought of making one unhappy whom I have sworn to"—and here some word choked her
                  utterance—"honor and obey; the combat I must sustain with society, relatives,
                  friends, who know nothing of my nature, nothing of my soul's longings and
                  aspirations, must bind me to my cruel vow. Oh, Fiello! Fiello!" and she flung
                  herself on her knees at his feet, and sobbed as though her very heart was riven in
                  twain; "forgive me, if I would you now; but I must abide the sacrifice. I must! I
                  must! I must!"
               "Rise, rise, dearest Lorma," said Alfierdermo, taking her clasped hands in his;
                  "it too sorely grieves me to see those tears, and more to witness that struggle of
                  tenderness with fear. Rise, and sit you here; and let me kneel before
                     you, and it will remind me of a joy I hope to have in heaven—the
                  bowing down, before the angels."
               Aluine arose and seated herself beside her lover, still allowing her hands to
                  remain in his; and though she spoke not, Alfierdermo saw the melancholy of soul
                  with which she was struggling. Her large liquid eyes had lost none of their
                  expression, and they now revealed a depth of despair bordering on madness.
               "Aluine! dear Aluine!" exclaimed Alfierdermo, "I cannot see you suffer thus. I
                  cannot longer endure it. Yet, Oh! where shall I fly, to escape from my own misery
                  and save you? If I leave you, I am plunged into the depths of woe; if I stay, your
                  own unhappiness kills me. Oh! could I but persuade you to view life as your
                  Creator designed you should, you could be at least partially happy yourself, and
                  save me from long years of fearful anguish."
               "Show me but the way, dear Fiello," murmured Aluine, "show how I can make you
                  happy, and not cause others to mourn, I will be your willing slave for ever—aye,
                  for ever!"
               "I seek not my own happiness alone, sweet Aluine; nor would I accept it if it
                  compromised yours; but since our first meeting our hearts have been one, and no
                  joy nor sorrow enters into that breast which does not find an echo in my own.
                  When, then, I talk of the happiness of one, it is of the happiness of both; but
                  the bitter draught seems all gathering in my own cup; for, knowing that you had
                  shaken off those prejudices which tended only to make you miserable, I trusted
                  that on this night—this, my last night—I should be permitted almost to call you
                  mine."
               "Your last night!" exclaimed Aluine, while a dizziness filled her
                  brain, and her body reeled as if about to fall; "for heaven's sake, say quickly
                  what you mean. You would not leave me in the midst of this sea of wretchedness, to
                  sink, to die, unpitied and alone? You would not desert me, after I had told you my
                  life was yours—that I would be your willing slave for ever? You would not tear
                  yourself from my heart, which you and my God alone occupy,—you who make its only
                  heaven, its sunshine and its joys?"
               
               "Struggling to abide by vows you could never fulfil," replied
                  Alfierdermo,—"fearing reproach from a few who would not lift a finger to make you
                  happy, but who would do much to destroy you, when, seeking your own happiness, you
                  deserted their uncharitable ranks—are sufficient to warn me from your sainted
                  presence, ever adorable Aluine; but they are not the cause of the adieu I must
                  soon bid you. This evening, I have received despatches from Italy, stating that my
                  father is dangerously ill, and requires my immediate presence. I therefore must
                  leave you to-morrow."
               "To-morrow!" sobbed Aluine; to-morrow? It is too soon; and Oh, my
                  heart tells me you will not come again. These eyes will never more gaze on that
                  dear form; these arms will never again be twined round that dear neck; these hands
                  will feel no more that gentle pressure of your own, which so thrills my frame and
                  tells me of your love. Oh, cruel fate! Oh, cruel destiny!" and leaning her head
                  upon the bosom of her lover—for that was its true and holy place—she shed scalding
                  tears.
               "As God is my witness," replied Alfierdermo, with a most sacred earnestness, "I
                  pledge my word, my honor, and my faith, never to desert you;" and he folded the
                  luxuriant form of the fair distracted creature to his wildly throbbing bosom. "But
                  oh! sweet, precious Aluine, such oaths are all superfluous; for our Creator
                  fashioned our hearts for each other, by their every sympathy and taste, by their
                  every aspiration; and no mortal power, no distance, no time can Separate them;—may
                  I, not then call you all, all mine?"
               Had paradise opened its bright portals to her wondering gaze, and the
                  silver-winged occupants had beckoned her in—its strange splendor would have paled
                  before the vision which the uncurtaining of the fair drapery of her dreams now
                  revealed to her;—it would have sunk into insignificance before that delicious
                  ecstacy of soul, created in its recipiency of a sister spirit,—the commingling of
                  heart with heart, of life with life. Aluine was happy; she saw the brightness of
                  life as it should have dawned upon her on her wedding morning, and Alfierdermo was
                  blessed.
               Night glided away like a friendly spectre, and Aurora looked in upon these happy
                  hearts, and bade them hope and trust in each other. They did hope, they did trust,
                  and their bliss would have been unalloyed had not the hour of separation arrived.
                  But now, no more vows were plighted, no word of farewell spoken. With one wild
                  embrace, with tears rolling down between their parting lips, they
                  separated—perhaps to meet again.
               Alfierdermo had his baggage all prepared before he left his hotel, and on his
                  return, though he felt little like journeying, ordered a carriage and started at
                  once towards home. How different now were the thoughts and feelings he cherished,
                  from those which occupied his mind when, a few months previous, he drove through
                  the same streets on his return from Italy. Then he said to himself, with a forced
                  gaiety and recklessness: "Since, by my father's kindness to me—by the education he
                  has given me, to make me his double debtor, I am compelled to unite myself in
                  legal bonds with one with whom my heart has nothing do do, I will try and find
                  some compensation for my sacrifice, in those scenes of hilarity which are said
                     to be the sovereign remedies for all
                  distress. I will not injure any one but myself, nor will I go so far as to bring
                  any disgrace upon my well-meaning sire; but I will, by such a constant succession
                  of appointed amusements, so occupy my waking hours, that not a thought of my own
                  soul's young aspirations, nor of her whom I feel sure it was my heart's destiny to
                  love, shall ever throw its sombre shadows over them. If death comes soon, so much
                  the more welcome; for what is life without love. God himself is love. Love is the
                  element of divinity, the element of all human felicity, and man is but a beast
                  without it." Now, as the carriage rolled on, bearing him every moment
                  nearer to a sick father, there was in his brain a medley of much that was
                  beautiful and sad, romantic and sincere, but all tinged with a glow of pure and
                  sacred reality. "It would be sad, sad indeed," he would say to himself, "to see my
                  poor father cold in death, without power to make a particle of his hoarded
                  treasures, which he has heaped up with so much care, contribute to his happiness;
                  yet, I hope, in charity, there will be goodness enough in his heart to find him,
                  through the mercy of the Saviour in whom he trusts, a resting place in paradise. I
                  am to see one, too, whom the called holy men have said is my wife. But oh! what
                  fallacy! How little did they know or care of the lie they were uttering. Had they
                  pronounced me wedded to one of the cold marble columns of the Annunciata, they
                  would have done their duty with as much truthfulness and religion,—and I should
                  have embraced my bride with as much warmth of soul and love, as I shall now. God
                  forgive me! for it was not of my seeking. Everything, however, looks more cheerful
                  to me now, and I feel a peculiar and most sincere gratitude to my Maker, that He
                  permitted me to enjoy the treasures of my own heart—treasures that find not value
                  in accumulation, but in losing themselves mid those of others. I am a changed
                  being. God seems to me very good, and I love all that He has created, and it is
                  all beautiful. I desire now, instead of wasting my energies in dissipation, to
                  grow in knowledge, to increase in goodness, to enlarge my mental capacities, to
                  walk onward and upward towards perfection; and though the road might be rough and
                  tedious, it would be a sweet and pleasant journey if my companion could be
                     the wedded one of my soul."
               On the departure of Alfierdermo, Aluine retired to rest to repair the fatigues of
                  a sleepless night. Oh! how blissful now was every thought of the future! Her
                  heart, joying in its confident companionship, was winged with love's brightest
                  plumage, and it went floating away in an atmosphere so pure and spiritual, that it
                  reached even the portals of heaven, and could hardly have been required to
                  experience a change to enter the holy mansion of the Deity. Many would have
                  believed that this love for Alfierdermo would give her a distaste for everything
                  that bore no direct relationship to him; but it was entirely the reverse. On her
                     wedding morning, she had felt a strange repugnance—unanalyzed,
                  indeed, to herself—to the step she was about to take, and many times found herself
                  pausing to contemplate self-destruction. She felt that her soul—her
                     real life was dormant, and that she was soon to bury it forever.
                  As the bride of Mr. Jones, she was expected to be as gay, cheerful,
                  and happy as she always had been in her
                  father's mansion; and though this jocundity would doubtless generally be other
                  than the spontaneous gushings of an untrammelled spirit, she was to manifest it to
                  please Mr. Jones, and Mr. Jones's friends. She was to be admired and caressed by
                  one, courted and flattered by another, complimented and praised by a third; and it
                  all bore to her, though she hardly knew why, a more sombre aspect than the very
                  gates of the grave. Was she not to blame, then, for taking this step? No; for the
                  combination of influences, and the absence of that which would have
                  at once revealed to her the true nature of her position, were sufficient to
                  control so unsophisticated a creature; but he who sought her hand—who was enough
                  read in characters to discern the perfect spirituality of this beautiful girl, and
                  discover how unlike himself she was—wronged her most cruelly, did his own
                  naturally generous impulses great injustice, and deserved to suffer. He bore the
                  tender lily from the placid and genial waters, on whose bosom it had lain and
                  bloomed sweetly, to cast it on a tumultuous sea, where rude storms would tear it,
                  and where its simple loveliness and delicate perfume would be utterly
                  valueless.
               I have said that Aluine was wretched when she finally resolved to give herself
                  away to Mr. Jones; but now, when contemplating her soul's treasure in
                  Alfierdermo, she was filled with transcendant beatitude. She would say to herself,
                  "He will love me so wildly, write to me so sweetly, that the very earth will
                  become a paradise. Each day, for one hour, and at the same time, we shall both be
                  kneeling at the throne of grace, enjoying that spiritual communion with our Maker,
                  and with each other, which is the dear earnest of our future inheritance. This
                  will be my inward life, and will not interfere with the claims my—husband has upon
                  me. Ah no! I shall go more cheerfully to my duties, and I know that my happy looks
                  and lively manners will satisfy Mr. Jones and his many friends."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               MR. JONES, on returning home, found a cheerful and joyous companion. A few days
                  previous, when he had taken leave of her, it was with sad forebodings of the
                  future—for he saw that his Aluine was really distressed about something beyond his
                  control. His going, or his coming, never awakened any emotions of regret or
                  gladness, and her life seemed aimless and spiritless; but now there was an evident
                  pleasure at his arrival. Joined to that elegance of manner which was habitual with
                  her, there was an earnestness in what she did that captivated him anew, and he
                  could not resist turning to his friends, and saying, "I told you I had a
                  treasure—look you, and see how she loves me."
               Mr. Jones's friends, as usual, looked further behind the curtain than he did. They
                  liked the man much, for he was an excellent companion, benevolent, and full of
                  good humor, and they were not anxious to disturb him in the self-satisfaction he
                  enjoyed in believing that all the world extolled him. They saw, however, in the
                  expression of the young bride, a covert and mysterious sadness the husband had
                  never penetrated. They saw in her sensitiveness—in her retiring delicacy of
                  deportment—in a refined hauteur, something that
                  had no kinship with Mr. Jones.
               Months passed away, and Aluine grew ill, and finally begged of Mr. Jones
                  permission to visit some of her relatives in Scotland. Mr. Jones, sufficiently
                  alarmed to allow her any liberty she might desire, assented at once—he even
                  hastened every preparation for the journey. He procured an easy carriage, fine
                  horses, good servants, and would have prepared himself to accompany her, had not
                  political affairs, in which both his money and ambitious views were at stake,
                  wholly precluded the possibility.
               How great was Aluine Lorma's relief when she found herself en route! Though she was sometimes trembling with fear for the
                  result of her present proceedings, an unaccountably felicitous spirit buoyed her
                  up, and rendered the ride both short and grateful to her. Fortunately, nothing
                  occurred on the way to mar her happy train of thoughts. When arrived at Glasgow,
                  she took lodgings in a narrow street at some distance from St. George's Square—a
                  place sought out more for its retiredness than comfort—where for many weeks she
                  gradually declined, till her life was almost despaired of. A favorable crisis,
                  however, accrued, and she speedily recovered.
               During her absence from home, Aluine's letters to Mr. Jones were full of
                  tenderness, kindness, good will, and most sincere and heartfelt desire for his
                  happiness. Mr. Jones expressed himself anxious to send to her everything that
                  could make her comfortable, and desired her return as soon as she felt it
                  consistent with the state of her health. His last epistle ran thus:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              DEAR WIFE:—
                           
                           I am delighted to hear from you again, and to learn that you are fast
                              recovering, and will soon be at home.
                           
                           The political excitement here is still immense, and rather on the
                              increase. Night and day, I devote myself to the interests of my party;
                              but I intend to pay myself for it by a few good fox-hunts, as soon as
                              the election is over.
                           Lord Fitzlace and Admiral Leclurc dined with me yesterday, and of
                              course we were very happy. They inquired after you.
                           
                              Your affectionate husband,
                              JONES."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               A letter from Alfierdermo ran thus:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "EVER ADORED—MY LOVED AND LOVELY LORMA:—
                           
                           My heart has been more than blessed to-day in my reception of your
                              little note, written, you say, in bed. You are recovering, and I will
                              join you in praising our good Father—if you will—and good fortune,
                              that have saved both you and me. Had I known of your illness, no power
                              on earth could have kept me from your side, though I own, that as my
                              parent declines towards the grave I feel more and more attached to
                              him, and am less loth to leave him to the care of others.
                           But how is it, beautiful Aluine, that you have so long been ill, and
                              not advised me of it? You thought it would alarm me, and consequently
                              you did not write! You are ever kind, and day by day seem more worthy
                              my soul's idolatry; and did I think you ever for a moment doubted
                                 my love, I would renew the oath I gave you at our last
                              meeting.
                           Covered with a thousand kisses, your dear precious note feels each
                              throb of my heart; and in my bosom it will remain, till an answer to
                              this takes its place. I dare not remark on what you have told me; but
                              if you love me, believe my feelings are such as you would have them
                              be. With one wild, long, sweet embrace, adieu,—fair light of my
                              soul.
                           
                              FIELLO."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               As soon as Aluine had sufficiently recovered to travel, she returned to London;
                  but her pale, emaciated features, which told of the severity of her illness, made
                  her almost unrecognizable even by Mr. Jones himself. A few weeks, however, of
                  repose, restored her once more to her place at the festive board, and though all
                  expressed their joy at seeing her again in their midst, they were saddened by a
                  conviction that something sat like a cruel weight upon her heart. Her husband and
                  his friends rallied her on her change of appearance, and the dejected manner that
                  constantly accompanied her. She confessed that her serious illness had changed her
                  much, but begged of them to spare her feelings for awhile, when she should be
                  wholly impregnable; for her shattered nerves could not as yet endure much
                  excitement, even of the pleasurable kind.
               It so happened, that the house to which Mrs. Jones retired in Glasgow, was near to
                  Mr. Smithers's sister's residence. The arrival of a stranger in the street was a
                  matter of some importance, and all wished to know about it. Through Mrs. Jones's
                  servant, Mr. Smithers's sister found out that the young lady who was from London,
                  and very ill, was no less than half sister to her brother's wife. This was of
                  momentous interest, and she at once commenced with her brother a correspondence,
                  which finally went into the minutest
                  detail of all the movements of Mrs. Jones—the state of her health—cause of
                  illness—prospect of recovery, &c., &c. The nature of this correspondence
                  tended to arouse in both Mr. and Mrs. Smithers' minds the greatest anxiety, and
                  they took measures to have Miss Wellington sent up to take special care of the
                  invalid. The cause of the care she bestowed, we shall have occasion to explain in
                  a future chapter.
               We will not suppose that Mr. and Mrs. Smithers sent up Miss Wellington from mere
                  feelings of humanity. Mr. and Mrs. Smithers had perhaps the same end in view; but
                  the direct incentives to his actions were very different from those
                  of his wife. Mr. Smithers's motive we will not here remark on Mrs. Smithers, from
                  the night of the wedding in which she was much with the Italian, and for whom she
                  had conceived a violent passion, had been devoured by jealousy of her half-sister,
                  arising from the partiality the youth had evinced for her. Subsequently, though
                  Mrs. Smithers had succeeded in keeping him most of the time with herself—had shown
                  him more attentions than are usually necessary for a conquest—had taken him to
                  rides in the country, to church, and striven, with most affectionate
                  zeal, to convert him to the Episcopal faith—though she left no art unemployed that
                  she was capable of exercising, and might have wrung from him, as a matter of
                  courtesy, occasional recognitions of her devotion, her love assumed the character
                  of hate, and in her firm resolve to watch narrowly her beautiful rival, between
                  whom and Alfierdermo she was convinced there was some secret understanding—there
                  was a determination to make them both miserable.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               MRS. SMITHERS, on the morning of the departure of Alfierdermo, visited Mrs. Jones
                  to acquire, in her pecuculiar way, some information; she having been apprised that
                  Alfierdermo called the evening previous on her sister, and had not left at a late
                  hour.
               "Mr. Jones has not yet returned from the North, good sister?" asked Mrs. Smithers,
                  with a sanctified expression.
               "Not yet, though I momentarily expect him, and hope for his arrival."
               "Hope!" said Mrs. Smithers rather sarcastically, and watching the expression of
                  Mrs. Jones's face,—"Hope?" Why, how can you hope he will soon come,
                  when you have so good a companion in his absence."
               "You refer, I suppose," said Aluine very calmly, and with a shade of melancholy,
                  "to Signor Alfierdermo? He is, indeed, a good and noble-hearted companion, but he
                  has left for Italy."
               "I am sorry, Mrs. Jones," replied Mrs. Smithers, reproachfully, "you should stoop
                  to falsehood, for a person told me that il Signor
                     Italiano was here last night till a late hour."
               "And so he was, Mrs. Smithers, but he left this morning for his native land, and
                  now I am lonesome indeed."
               
               Mrs. Smithers bit her lip, and grew red with anger at the coolness of her
                  half-sister, and at her own stupidity in betraying the fact that she had kept a
                  watch over the actions of Mrs. Jones and Alfierdermo. She became almost furious
                  when she thought, too, that Alfierdermo had spent perhaps all the night with Mrs.
                  Jones, and had not so much as called on her to say adieu, when leaving the
                  country. Had Mrs. Smithers believed that the young man had gone forever, she would
                  have found consolation in knowing that while she was deprived of his bland
                  society, her half-sister, whom, she more than half suspected loved him deeply, had
                  lost a devoted admirer, and could no longer be considered a rival.
               "It is, well, I think, that he has gone," said Mrs. Smithers, "for I assure you,
                  my dear sister, if he had remained here, and continued his visits as often as he
                  was accustomed to, you would have been scandalized by our whole neighborhood," and
                  Mrs. Smithers elongated her physiognomy and looked saintly.
               "There are few people in our neighborhood, or any other," replied
                  Mrs. Jones, with as contemptuous an expression as her angelic face could put on,
                  "whose opinions are of sufficient import to cause me to deviate in the slightest
                  degree from that course which my own judgment points out to me as right, and which
                  my own happiness requires. My neighbors, doubtless, do what pleases them,—go where
                  it pleases them,—eat, sleep, and drink when it pleases them, and I do not question
                  their right to do so; and while I consider a prying, meddling, prattling woman
                  more despicable, and a greater bane to society than the most common and abandoned
                  of our sex—more to be shunned than the leprous-tainted vagabond, I sincerely pity
                  them for the smallness of their souls, for the meanness of their occupation, and
                  for the loss of that inward satisfaction there is in having one's own happiness
                  not depend upon a knowledge of the conduct, good or bad—the foibles of
                  others."
               This came so cuttingly home to Mrs. Smithers—she was so intensely stung, that she
                  could not help replying, though it would have been better for her to have said
                  nothing till she became more collected. She, however, had now added a million fold
                  to her original dislike of her half-sister, and she resolved to destroy her if
                  possible. The very temper and spirit which Mrs. Jones had been decrying were
                  quickened in her to a double activity, and with the rapidity of thought, she
                  planned higher own mind,—if certain events occurred which she might reasonably
                  anticipate,—the means by which she could embitter Aluine's whole life.
               "And that is your opinion, is it, Mrs. Jones?" said Mrs. Smithers, as the fire
                  flashed from her little snakey eyes; "you would uphold the dissolute, would you,
                  and decry those respectable members of society whose duty it is to watch over
                  their friends, and see that they are not led into temptation? Indeed, I hardly
                  expected this from you Mrs. Jones; though I suppose you have your
                  private motives for wishing to elevate, a certain class, so that your own fall may
                  be lessened."
               "I beg you will excuse me from making any reply to your last remarks," said Mrs.
                  Jones, with much calmness, "though, in justice to a portion of our sex to whom you
                  refer, I ought perhaps to do so."
               
               "You probably have many of your outre notions of
                  society from your Italian friend; pray give us some of them," said Mrs. Smithers,
                  with a look which said"—"I have already doomed, you; let us see how you will
                  sustain yourself."
               "To some extent you are right," replied Mrs. Jones. "Signor Fiello Alfierdermo I
                  always found entertaining and instructive. His knowledge was not so much derived
                  from books as from observation (for he had travelled the world over), and his own
                  strong, natural good sense. His words were always those of 'truth and soberness,'
                  and I own they went far towards making me more tolerant—far towards divesting me
                  of the restraint—the succumbing to the conventional forms with which our English
                  society had enslaved me."
               "More tolerant, eh!" interrupted Mrs. Smithers, "is there anything, without the
                  pale of the Episcopal Church that can be tolerated at all?"
               "From a remark you made a few moments since, I am well aware of your opinion of
                  me, and what I am about to say will not tend to change it; yet, I am as, confident
                  as that I exist, that our people, more especially the females, are greatly in
                  error in regard to the treatment of those of our sex whom they say have 'fallen.'
                  In Italy and Spain, where, true gallantry and Catholic piety are dominant, no such
                  class exists. If you say, there is more licentiousness in those countries than in
                  all others, I shall answer—that to God only they are accountable; and I take not
                  judgment into my hands lest I be judged. That charity which becomes a
                  Christian—that true philanthropic spirit which becomes a noble heart, prevails
                  throughout the length and breadth of those lands in respect to individual morals;
                  and the consequence is, there are none of those horrible haunts of vice, none of
                  those dens of infamy, which abound in all our large towns; and none of those
                  peculiarly degrading sights which are momentarily thrust before us, when of an
                  evening we walk our great thoroughfares. To remove this dark cloud—so freighted
                  woodpecker and death—which hangs over our vast city, what effort, or what
                  sacrifice would you think too great? You would answer—'None.' Now, Mrs. Smithers,
                  let me assure you, that no sacrifice is required—unless it be the sacrifice of
                  malicious hearts," and here Mrs. Smithers winced and turned red again,—"and no
                  effort is required but that which enables you to fulfil the injunction of our
                  Divine Master:—'Have charity,' that 'charity which thinketh no evil.'"
               "This is the stuff that has been preached to you by the Italian," said Mrs.
                  Smithers, with much bitterness.
               "It is the stuff, if you will call it so," replied Mrs. Jones, "which I have
                  gathered from common sense, from my observation of the practical result of this
                  angelic principle as exercised in other countries; and did I need other authority,
                  I would quote the example of the Saviour himself, who did not feel too holy to
                  talk with the' fallen Ones,' counsel them, and pardon them."
               "It is downright profanity!" exclaimed Mrs. Smithers, in an angry tone.
               "I feel it to be the perfection of true religion," mildly responded
                  Aluine.
               "Because the Saviour, in his purity, could touch them without being contaminated,
                     you would thrust them, with all their vileness, upon society,—make
                  them our companions, and oblige us to talk with them."
               
               "We seldom know to whom we are talking," replied Aluine, with dignified calmness
                  and manner which she saw was her greatest weapon of defence; "and those whom we
                  think to be, and who call themselves our friends, may, at the very moment we are
                  uttering words which show our trust in them, be plotting in their inmost hearts,
                  our very misery and ruin."
               "Biting devil!" Mrs. Smithers would have uttered, had she said anything; but the
                  truth that had been spoken—as prophetic an answer to her own vile intentions as
                  could be—actually smothered her with confusion.
               "Those whom we take by the hand—whom we love—who are our daily companions, may be
                  vastly more vile in the sight of their Creator, than many whom we point the finger
                  of derision and contempt at, and drive to utter despair. If we were not finite creatures,—if we had the power to read souls,
                  we might judge without the fear of being judged falsely but, since we
                  are but mortals, let us leave to Him who 'searchest the hearts and
                  tryest the reins" of all, judgment which will be immaculate and unerring."
               "Have you lost all reason?" interrogated Mrs. Smithers, with great earnestness.
                  "Do you not suppose I know the character of those with whom
                     I associate?"
               "I must do you the justice to say, I think you do not always know, else you would
                  not have thought so highly of your two clerical friends of whom I have often heard
                  you speak;—the late bishop, one, whom you say has been found guilty of most
                  shameful acts. That beautiful lady, too, so long your bosom companion, was, you
                  say, at the very time you were most attached to her, the mistress of Lord
                  Strelesly."
               "Yes, yes, Aluine, I own that to be true; but those are exceptions, and we
                     generally know," said Mrs. Smithers, in a much more subdued and
                  humble tone.
               "We never know," replied Aluine, with the dignity of truth;—"God only
                  knows; so I pray with all fervor, 'God grant I may have charity,'"
               "Well, Mrs. Jones, you can associate with whom you please, but you
                  may rest assured that no one not of the highest respectability, shall ever enter
                  my doors. Nor will I believe that there is or can be one not within the pale of
                  our pure old Church of England, who is worthy of my respect; and I hope the time
                  will come when every one not professing our creed will be driven from the land or
                  burned at the stake."
               "You cannot certainly mean, Mrs. Smithers," said Aluine, much affected, "that
                  persecution should again light the faggot, open the dungeon, and sharpen the axe,
                  to gratify its fiendish appetite."
               "There is no dungeon deep enough, dark enough, dismal enough," replied Mrs.
                  Smithers, "for those who will not uphold our Church, and I would myself light the
                  faggot if I could consume every heretic that breathes."
               "I thank God," said Aluine, as if only speaking to her own heart, "that
                  intelligence, which generates humanity and 'good will towards man,' has been
                  diffusing its beneficent light throughout the world, and that there is now little
                  persecution 'for conscience' sake,' except, perhaps, in the Papal States, where
                  ignorance still shrouds their rulers."
               "This is all of the same spirit, Mrs. Jones," said Mrs. Smithers, taking the
                  remark as a personal insult. "You would
                  have me believe that people in this corrupt age are better than when they were
                     compelled to be good."
               "The dissolute lives of the Popes—the superstition, crime and poverty which crowd
                  around the very steps of the papal throne, go far to convince me that God could
                  never have intended the hierarchy of Rome to be the representative, on earth, of
                  His wisdom and mercy; nor can I believe that the cruelties practiced by our more
                  modern church were ever designed by our beneficent Creator to promote
                  Christianity. Priests in their saintly robes, judges in their sapient wigs, were
                  looked up to as infallible. Now, we know them to have been base, inhuman, selfish,
                  bigoted, and without the necessary qualifications to make wise laws, or to
                  administer justice. Many of their sentences, reputed the acme of erudition, and
                  noted down with all gravity as oracles, are now laughed at, and have long been set
                  aside as the crude productions of ignorance and superstition."
               "Indeed! You speak like an oracle, yourself," said Mrs. Smithers,
                  contemptuously.
               "I do not mean to say," continued Aluine, "that at this present time out judges
                  are all just, our priests all holy, or our laws all good; on the contrary, I am
                  morally certain that there is much to be reformed—much cruelty in our statute
                  book, much impiety and duplicity in the church, much that is radically wrong
                  everywhere."
               "I think they had better appoint you to revise the statutes," said Mrs. Smithers,
                  in derision.
               "A fool may sometimes counsel wisely," responded Aluine, with sweet humility.
               "So seldom, that I think I will take my leave," said Mrs. Smithers, rising and
                  retiring with a dignity which she intended to have say to her half-sister—she
                  neither considered her any longer a relative, or worthy of her esteem.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               WE have said that Mr. and Mrs. Smithers had different motives for sending Miss
                  Wellington up to Glasgow.
               The observations which Mrs. Smithers had made on Miss Wellington,—and which
                  somewhat reflected on her respectability,—Mr. Smithers saw, day by day, there was
                  a growing cause for; and as there was an excuse for her going away,
                  he resolved to despatch her as soon as possible, and never let her enter his house
                  again.
               The same evening in which Mr. Smithers had received a letter from his
                  sister—stating the condition of Mrs. Jones at Glasgow—he wrote a hasty note, and
                  slipped it into the hands of Miss Wellington. It ran thus:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MY DEAR MARGARET,
                           
                           Please call at my office to-morrow morning at ten o'clock—come the
                              back way. I shall be alone—have much to say to you. Do not fail.
                           
                              YOUR JOHN."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               On the following day at ten o'clock, Mr. Smithers retired to his private counting
                  room, and gave orders to his clerks that, as he had important business letters to
                  write, he was not in to any one. A few moments after, a light step was heard, and
                  Miss Margaret Wellington, thickly veiled, stood beside her lover, Mr. John Knox
                  Calvin Smithers.
               "My dear Margaret," said Mr. Smithers, rising and hurrying for a chair, "I am more
                  than happy to meet you alone; for this pleasure so seldom occurs. Come sit near to
                  me, so that I can hold your little hand while I talk to you. I have much to
                  say—much that is important, as it involves the happiness of both of us; and I
                  trust you will believe my words—believe that all I say is dictated by the purest
                  love, and desire for your welfare."
               Miss Margaret laid aside her veil, and with much trepidation—having seated herself
                  near her lover, and allowed him to take her hand—listened with the utmost interest
                  to words which she was certain involved, more or less, her fate. She, however,
                  threw as much love and confidence into her face as possible, and breathed
                  heavily.
               "Mrs. Smithers," continued Mr. Smithers, "begins—and I see with reason—to mistrust
                  you; but she does not yet think of me in connection with it. But such
                  will be the result unless"—
               "Unless what?" exclaimed Margaret, anticipating the words, and turning pale as
                  death.
               "Unless, my dear Margaret, you go away for a little while, until the affair is
                  over."
               "Never!" hissed out Margaret, between her teeth, and looking as though one word
                  more would make her tear her lover's eyes out; "for have you not always promised
                  me a home as long as I live—promised me your protection—pledged me your honor for
                  the fulfilment of every duty you owed me as your mistress? Now, would you thrust
                     me out of doors which I am never to
                  enter again?—at the very moment, too, when I most require your love and
                  assistance? I will not go! if I do, I will bring disgrace and ruin upon you,
                  though I kill myself in doing it." A vision of misery opened before her,—her heart
                  felt it, and she burst into tears.
               "My dear Margaret," said Smithers, putting his arm around her waist, and drawing
                  her closer to him, "you mistake my meaning. I only ask you to go for a little
                  time. But surely this is a very unfortunate event, and one I did not anticipate,
                  and had not made provision for."
               "Indeed you had, Mr. Smithers; for when I told you of what might be the result of
                  our clandestine meetings, you swore solemnly to me that our child should inherit
                  your whole property, if you had no other heirs; and in case you had, that a
                  sufficient portion should be settled upon me to make me independent. And now, sir,
                  unless you redeem your pledge, made to me as the strongest inducement to lead me
                  to your purposes, I will expose the whole to your wife and to the world."
               "For God's sake, have mercy on me, my dear Margaret!" said Mr. Smithers, now
                  greatly alarmed at the ruin he saw staring at him; "I will support you handsomely
                  anywhere you may wish to go—but do not urge upon me any other step."
               "In that very remark, Mr. Smithers, which you have unguardedly made, I see you are
                  willing I should live anywhere. Does this betoken love? No! I know
                  you are tired of me now, or you would not have said that. Had you loved me, as you
                  once swore you did, you would have said,—'If you will live near me,
                  so that I can at least see you often.' No! Mr. Smithers, I have not
                  been ruined to gratify you for nothing, and nothing shall change my
                  resolutions."
               "You wrong me, my dear Margaret, for you know I love you dearly, and would give
                  you all I possess if I could; and though it is not necessary, yet to gratify you,
                  and show you that I meant honorably by you, I will give you a bond
                  now, that our child, if I have no other heirs, shall inherit all my property," and
                  he sat down and wrote, in a disguised hand, omitting date and place, a short
                  document which he folded, sealed, and handed to Margaret.
               Miss Margaret Wellington had lived long enough with Mr. Smithers to know his
                  character—to know that even her life would be of little moment to him, if it stood
                  in the way of his own ends; and she now saw that his aim was to get rid of
                  her—turn her out upon the world, penniless and a vagabond; and she watched him as
                  he wrote, and read in all his words and actions, his favorite
                  motto—"Self-preservation, if all else perish."
               "Now, my dear Margaret, since you are convinced of my love, I have a favor to ask
                  of you, and if you manage rightly, your child's inheritance will doubtlessly be
                  doubled. I wish you to go to Glasgow. Mrs. Jones had gone there for reasons which
                  you will learn from my sister, to whom I will give you a letter of introduction. I
                  have not time, nor is this hardly a proper place to explain the motives which
                  actuate me, nor the course you are to pursue; but my sister will inform you of the
                  one, and circumstances and your own good judgment must guide you in the other. I
                  wish you to profess the strongest love for Mrs. Jones,— assure her you came solely to take care of her, and
                  never leave her for an instant if you can avoid it. Your interests in this are the
                  same as mine."
               "I will be ready immediately," said Margaret, with an air of resignation.
               "You are a good, kind girl," said Mr. Smithers, rubbing his hands as he bowed her
                  to the door.
               Margaret had no sooner gone than Mr. Smithers, much relieved, exclaimed: "Curse
                  the wench, she came near ruining me. I promised her much, I know, but then I had
                  no idea of ever being called upon to fulfil my engagement; and now the idea of her
                  bringing forth a brat, to be a curse both to me and herself, is intolerable; and
                  if I could get the little imp by the throat, there should never be a, possibility
                  of his knowing who his father was. In fact, Margaret and the child
                     must be removed out of "the way."
               As soon as Margaret left the office, she tore open the document, and seeing that
                  there was no witness to it, she passed round to the front of the shop, and entered
                  it just as Mr. Smithers came from his private room.
               "I wish to get a witness to this signature," said Margaret, quite loud, "and if
                  some of you gentlemen will please sign it, you will oblige me exceedingly. This is
                  your signature, I believe," said she to Mr. Smithers, in a clear, distinct
                  voice.
               "It is," replied Mr. Smithers, stepping forward, with the deepest anxiety pictured
                  in his face, while the suddenness of the demand, and the important nature of the
                  mission on which Miss Wellington was to proceed, deprived him of the power to deny
                  his writing.
               The clerk having witnessed the signature, and added the place and date, Miss
                  Wellington, with a look of scorn, bade good morning to Mr. Smithers, and with
                  vengeance in her heart and curses on her lips, wended her way homeward to prepare
                  for her journey.
               Mrs. Smithers was glad that Miss Wellington was to take her departure, and glad
                  that she was to go to take care of Mrs. Jones; for through Miss Wellington she
                  could know all that was done, and lay her plans accordingly—obtain such
                  confirmation of her opinions as would aid her in crushing a woman, who, from the
                  bottom of her heart, she hated.
               We will not trace the progress of affairs in Glasgow. Suffice it to say, that the
                  hopes of Mrs. Smithers, and the expectations of Mr. Smithers, were realized; but
                  circumstances—more particularly the influence of Mr. Smithers's words and
                  money—induced Miss Wellington to take up her residence for the future in Falmouth,
                  rather than in London.
               Miss Wellington had now two sources of revenue, and each sufficient to make her
                  very comfortable. One would have thought, that under present circumstances, she
                  might have been happy—but she was not. Miss Wellington was now incapable of loving
                  deeply, though she could hate intensely. Being poor, she had perhaps more easily
                  fallen a prey to Mr. Smithers's attentions and promises of wealth; but when she
                  found him to be selfish, hypocritical and false, every emotion of love, respect,
                  esteem, she had ever had for him, turned to the most bitter aversion. This she
                  quietly nourished in her bosom, day by day, night by night, and it was not
                  lessened by any kindness on the part of
                  the father of her boy. I say, she quietly nourished her hate, for she
                  saw in the future the means of redress. The future thus became as a
                  talisman to her heart; and at all times, when urged by some passing event to
                  appeal anew to the generosity of her former lover, she would smite her breast, and
                  mutter to herself—"The future!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               THE evening of that day in which Smithers had seen the sick Bolaro, and promised
                  to him his kind assistance, was one of those dark and dismal ones, when the lamps
                  in the streets seem determined to give as little light as possible, because much
                  is desirable,—when beggars crouch in the obscure passage-ways, and startle, by
                  their unsuspected presence, the pedestrian, who, with face covered to shelter it
                  from drizzling rain, is hurrying homeward. The spirit of that life which had been
                  burned out of a thousand cords of wood in Smithers's fire-place, was now,
                  apparently in wild defiance, howling down Smithers's chimney. Every shutter in the
                  house seemed loosened, and wind in fitful gusts whistled in every cranny. Mrs.
                  Smithers had retired, but Mr. Smithers still sat on the hearth-stone absorbed—lost
                  in one great villainous scheme. When a shutter slammed on one side, he dodged his
                  head as though some one struck at him; when the wind sighed on the other, he
                  turned a quick ear, as though he heard some one whispering to him. The nature of
                  his thoughts caused the solemn moaning in the chimney to act like a spell upon
                  him, and he watched the fire, as though it had much to do with both.
               There is companionship in the blazing or smouldering fire, and it warms in its own
                  peculiar way, the heart of a family.
                  When the dry wood is piled on, and the blaze is light, and rolls up briskly, it
                  never fails to find a cheerful look from all who surround it. When it gradually
                  dies away, a more serious expression is on the group; and when it has died out
                  entirely, except, perhaps, a little flicking blaze behind some dark log—a
                  solemnity, sad and almost painful, accompanies it. At such times, all are prepared
                  to see ghosts; and the sudden spark that shoots out from the ashes, startles them
                  as something almost supernatural.
               Smithers sat in a large chair, and had almost drawn himself into himself. No
                  candle had been ordered to the room, and as the fire had not been replenished, it
                  was leaving him almost in darkness. The wood, however, had hissed at him, and he
                  had heard it; the blaze had thrust out snaky tongues at him, and he had seen them;
                  but when blackness succeeded the last stream of light, the black deed in his heart
                  was consummated. At that instant, the door opened, and a step approached him. He
                  could not scream; he dared not move; his tongue clove to his mouth, and a cold
                  sweat stood on his forehead. He felt a hand upon his shoulder—a groan, as of one
                  in a nightmare, escaped him, and he tried to sink into the earth; but finding
                  himself unsuccessful, he prayed for annihilation.
               "Smithers," said the well-known voice of Miss Wellington, "I have waited till this
                  hour to meet you once more alone,—to recall your early vows, and to say
                  farewell."
               "Oh God! what a relief!" exclaimed Smithers; "I am so glad you have come, for I
                  have seen horrible sights, and I could not sleep without unburdening my heart to
                  some one."
               "What sights, Mr. Smithers? You frighten me," said Miss Wellington.
               "Margaret, they say the wicked are cowards," said Smithers in a low voice, and
                  looking anxiously around him; "but why need I be afraid, when I have
                  done nothing to harm any one, and have always maintained my respectability in
                  society?"
               "When a crime is committed in the heart, God says the deed is already
                  done," replied the visitor. "I know that you have been meditating some great and
                  wicked act; I watched you through the key-hole, and saw the agony you endured in
                  making your resolve. I feared that I was to be the victim, and I came to plead for
                  mercy and forgiveness, and to promise all you wished—to swear to be yours till
                  death, and, as I said before, to say farewell."
               "Margaret, you read me, and you know too much or not enough," said Smithers; and
                  he paused to consider what he should do—strength and resolution returning to him
                  again. A moment after, seizing her hand with a kind of savage energy, he with a
                  half-stifled voice resumed:
               "Margaret, down on your knees, and swear solemnly that you will never reveal my
                  secret, which I shall now tell you. Fate urges me to this—I cannot resist it; and
                  it tells me it will all be for your good."
               Miss Wellington, trembling with fright, kneeled down and swore solemnly before her
                  Maker, to do all John Knox Calvin Smithers required; for, though she had not
                  changed her mind with regard to his character, she had as regarded her own policy, and thought by tenderness to win
                  him to her favor, and had sought him with that idea.
               "Margaret, I thought you were far hence; but it is well that you are here. I
                  needed your sage counsel, and as our destinies are one and inseparable, I must
                  tell you all. If you are faithful to my interests, and you manage rightly, a still
                  larger fortune than any you have yet dreamed of, will eventually be yours. There
                  is here now a rich Italian, whose funds are all in my hands, or within my reach.
                  He is very ill, and will die—must die. He has a brother living in
                  Italy in the Val de Mazzara, but he knows nothing of this one's wealth. If,
                  therefore, I can get possession of this Bolaro's papers, deeds, &c., so that
                  they fall not into other hands, I shall be rich as Crœsus, and no one made the
                  poorer by it. My respectability, and consequently my happiness, will be fixed on a
                  basis that cannot be shaken, and I shall feel then towards you all that generosity
                  which true love prompts."
               Few revelations could have more gratified the heart of Miss Wellington than did
                  this one. If all was successful, she might yet have wealth, and thence gain a
                  pinnacle from which she could hurl back the insults heaped upon her by Mrs.
                  Smithers; and if not, she had Mr. Smithers more than over in her power, and would
                  wait her time to wreak her vengeance upon him. She took an affectionate leave of
                  the merchant villain.
               Mr. Smithers retired to bed, and buried his head in the clothes to shut out the
                  vivid light of the lightning, whose every flash penetrated his soul. He did not
                  sleep, for the black tempest that was being tossed over the face of the earth was
                  typified in his own bosom.
               On the following day, Mr. Smithers, at a late hour, drove to the house of Bolaro,
                  and at once saw by the face of the servant, that the master was either very ill or
                  dead.
               "My master, Bolaro, asked anxiously after you this morning," said the man to Mr.
                  Smithers, "but since then he has been out of his head and so raving that I could
                  not leave him. A few moments since, however, he fell asleep, and I trust that when
                  he awakes he will be better. Yet I cannot hope"—and here the tears began to
                  trickle down the poor fellow's cheeks—"for he has grown so weak that he cannot
                  turn himself in bed. He is a good master, and I am loth to part with him, but he
                  must go."
               "Let us hope," said Smithers, whose hope was that the invalid would die,—and he
                  approached the bed and put aside the curtains. The sick man was not asleep, but he
                  was soon to be so forever. He had avoided all medicine, and taken no nourishment,
                  in hopes, he said, of starving out the fever. This, with anxiety for his
                  brother,—his fortune—the absence of all that comfort and gentle sympathy which
                  friendship brings to the sick bed, had drawn every bolt, mental and physical, from
                  the fabric of life, and his dissolution was at hand.
               "I am very sad," said Smithers, in a low, drawling tone, "at seeing you thus
                  prostrated, my dear friend, and if I could only aid you, it would give me great
                  satisfaction."
               The dying man heard him, and he opened his eyes, but could not speak. In the look,
                  however, which he gave to Smithers, there was incredulity, pity, and, for an
                  instant, a flash of revenge; but all were soon swallowed up in an expression of
                  despair and sorrow. He clutched at the throat of Smithers, and in the effort,
                  died.
               
               Drawing the curtain so close that it quite prevented any one's looking on the bed,
                  Smithers turned to the servant and said, "Come near, and hear what he says."
                  Smithers then interrogated the supposed living Bolaro, and in a feigned, feeble
                  voice, himself responded.
               "You are satisfied with all my business transactions?"
               "Yes."
               "If you do not live, are you desirous that I should continue to invest your money
                  as I think most profitable?"
               "Yes."
               "And if you do not live, do you wish that I should take charge of all your
                  effects, papers, &c., and do for you as I would for myself?"
               "Yes," in a still more suppressed voice.
               "You hear what he says," said Smithers, turning his head towards the listening
                  servant; "but his accents are so feeble, I fear he cannot live many minutes—bring
                  some cold water instantly," and as the man went away to get the water, he secured
                  the keys of the trunks, drawers, &c. When the servant returned, Smithers sat
                  calmly by the bed, with the handkerchief to his face, as though he was weeping,
                  and allowed him to go up to his master and see that he was dead.
               "Dead!" exclaimed the poor fellow, in an agony no one could have seen unmoved; and
                  letting the glass fall from his hand, he sank on his knees beside the bed, called
                  his master's name, rubbed his cold hands, and put back the dark hair from his
                  sun-burnt face, and cried out in utter despair—"My master! my master!"
               Smithers's conscience felt great relief in reflecting that the Italian had died
                  without the violence he, Smithers, had contemplated using; but the "sin of
                     omission" still stung him. He said to himself:—"If I had been
                  watchful and kind I might have saved him, but then where would have been the
                  wealth that is now falling into my hands? Bah! These squirms will soon be
                  forgotton in the splendor and respectability of my future career."
               If the fiends have made a hell, and have made any one corner of it hotter than
                  another, I believe that particular locality will be devoted to those who allow
                  strangers to suffer and die in their midst, without extending to them all those
                  peculiar hospitalities which the sick, away from kindred, friends, and home,
                  always need, and for which their gratitude is eternal. Smithers shook off this
                  reflection again and again, though it still returned to cling, with its iron
                  fangs, about his heart.
               Smithers disposed of Bolaro's body in as quiet and economical a manner as
                  possible, and proceeded in a legal way, by the aid of the servant's testimony, to
                  put himself in perfect mastery of all that Bolaro owned at the time of his
                  decease. A few days sufficed, and Smithers, with increased wealth, and increased
                  miserly feelings, and increased hatred of his race, from the evils he had done it,
                  sat down to ask himself what more on earth he could desire. The question, before
                  uttered, was smothered by a thousand wants. There were still persons more wealthy:
                  that would not do. There were still lords, peers: they must come down, or he must
                  rise. The future was still to be a struggle, but his unscrupulous heart and soul
                  were in it, and he was justly confident he should not fail of his aim. Success had
                  emboldened him; crime had hardened him;
                  his plebian birth had embittered his waking hours, while his passion for
                  respectability had goaded him on.
               If Mrs. Smithers ever had any heart, it had gone away with Alfierdermo; or, she
                  had not seen the one whom she could love. Her husband, now so full of ambition and
                  crime, daily grew more hateful to her sight. She had arrived at the top of the
                  ladder of distinction in the Church, had become head and front of all home,
                  charitable, religious, Hottentot societies, and found not that happiness in
                  respectability she anticipated. There were still noble ladies; and as
                  a shop-keeper's wife, she remembered, could not rise very high, she grew
                  intolerably peevish and morose, and was in a short time tending towards the grave,
                  impelled by the wormwood of her own nature. If she had a gleam of sunshine, it was
                  in the thought that she had ruined such and such an one's character, who had stuck
                  themselves up to be somebody; and that she had really been the means of finding
                  out and exposing the bad conduct of every one of her neighbors. Such was Mrs.
                  Smithers, when her husband gained wealth and respectabiliy by his villainy.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               WE have said that Miss Wellington proceeded to Glasgow, and entered on her duties
                  (more important and surprising than she anticipated), with great zeal and
                  alacrity.
               After having obtained from Mr. Smithers's sister the clue to, and import of, all
                  that was in progress, she insinuated herself into the favor of Mrs. Jones, and in
                  a short time won her entire, her most perfect confidence.
               Mrs. Jones, as we have seen, was of a kind and unsuspecting nature, and believing
                  in the sincerity of Miss Wellington, confided to her all her secrets, her hopes,
                  her fears; in fact, placed her life almost at the disposition of this now
                  intriguing, and, from circumstances, unprincipled woman.
               Events finally took place at Glasgow which rendered Miss Wellington's stay there
                  no longer necessary. On her leaving, however, (her future course not having been
                  fully agreed on), she met Mr. Smithers at private lodgings in London. The news she
                  brought, and which was communicated to Mrs. Smithers by her husband, filled them
                  both with joy. Smithers manifested unbounded gratitude, and pretended to plan
                  everything for Miss Wellington's happiness, while she, poor girl, assented to all,
                  under a conviction that time would entangle a web her seducer could not escape. After a long conversation, it
                  was definitely settled that she should go immediately to Falmouth to reside.
               Mr. Smithers understood human nature very well, but had not sufficient control
                  over his own to conceal his real sentiments. Miss Wellington, though seeming to
                  yield with a cheerful and trusting spirit, seeing through his designs,—his
                  penurious soul, and the innumerable meshes of his mephitic villainy,—determined,
                  though she should, suffer long years of privation in efforts to effect her object,
                  to make him at last the signal victim of her abiding hate.
               With the burdens she bore, Miss Wellington found her journey to Falmouth one of
                  great fatigue; but she constantly said to herself—"'T is only the beginning of a
                  succession of miseries I am doomed to suffer, and which I am resolved to endure
                  patiently—destined to invigorate my spirit of revenge and make my will strong,
                  though they weaken this poor feeble frame, to its halting at the grave."
               In a few days, after arriving at the place which was to be her future residence,
                  Miss Wellington, almost unattended, gave birth to a son.
               Oh, what wild joy must fill the heart of the mother when she hears the first cry
                  of her little one—the child of him she loves! But was Miss Wellington happy? The
                  sound of the infant voice sent a momentary thrill of delight to her heart, but a
                  convulsive shudder succeeded, for she recalled the treachery of the father—the
                  father of him who was to be fatherless.
               For several years, Smithers and another party transmitted regularly to Miss
                  Wellington considerable sums of money; but they grew smaller and came less
                  frequent, and finally failed altogether. The alternative then was to seek for
                  work. Of this she obtained just enough to support life, and was obliged, as soon
                  as her child was big enough to beg, to send him up to London to get his own
                  living, and something for her—if possible.
               For a youthful mind, a large city is as inappropriate a place as is the gutter of
                  its streets for the growth of the delicate lily. Miss Wellington's boy proved this
                  to be the case, for he had firmly fixed in his brain a thousand vulgar and wicked
                  impressions (the out-door life of London is the free school in which alone
                  thousands of children are taught), before one pure and gentle thought had built
                  there its quiet nest.
               "Please give penny to buy bread!" said the little ragged thing, to a gentleman
                  passing, "for I've nothin' to eat." The gentleman gave, him a sixpence, and as the
                  boy had not yet learned to lie, he did no more begging that day, for he had then
                  enough with which to satisfy his hunger. When night came he had nowhere to go, and
                  fearing to enter a house lest the people should whip him, he curled himself in a
                  corner between a building and its high steps, and leaning his tender cheeks
                  against the cold stones, fell asleep.
               The Turks have their public Khans, where the stranger and traveller may find
                  gratuitous and comfortable shelter, but the Christians have not yet become so
                  benevolent, and hundreds are the poor who, from exposure in our streets, are
                  nightly hurried to their long accounts.
               For several days little Charles Wellington stood in the same place to beg, and
                  each night returned to his corner to sleep. The place he had chosen he endured as
                  long as the weather was fair, but one night a heavy chilling rain fell, and in the morning he was benumbed with
                  cold, and so ill that he could not move. The police soon discovered him, and as he
                  could give no satisfactory account of himself, had him conveyed to the hospital.
                  Could he have reposed on some good, kind mother's bosom, and received for a few
                  hours her tender care, he would have at once recovered; but left alone with an
                  unfeeling physician, who doubtless thought it far better for him to die than live,
                  he grew worse, wasted away to a tiny skeleton, and was near being thrust in a box
                  already prepared for him. A few weeks, however, partially restored his health, and
                  he was again turned into the streets. He felt now more the necessity of
                     working at his profession, and he began to invent many lies to
                  effect his purpose. Success soon taught him to use deception freely; and to lying
                  followed cheating and stealing, and then incarceration,—to be again, and worse
                  than ever, turned loose upon society. In begging, his success was greatest with
                  handsome young females, who thought it looked prettily to give to the poor. In
                  stealing, fat, phlegmatic men, of little sensibility and activity, were usually
                  his victims. His companions were necessarily those of his class, and from them he
                  improved daily his stock of knowledge of the best mode of gammoning the public;
                  but many were the days in which he did not obtain enough to buy lodging, and then
                  under some door step, or cart that had been left in the street, he passed the
                  night.
               We need not follow this child of sorrow through his daily rounds, to know how, in
                  three years, his habits would be formed, his education perfected. Now seven years
                  of age, he knew more of the world, more of men and morals, than do most people
                  arrived at maturity. An advantage gained over a fellow thief was considered by him
                  a great feather in his cap. With his cigar, and swagger of a bully, he felt
                  himself a man. With the shrewdness he had acquired by necessity, he was confident
                  none could get the upper hand of him. Having become hardy by exposure, and being
                  large of his age, one, to see him and hear him talk, would have thought him very
                  much older than he really was.
               Charles returned home, and Miss Wellington, as may well be supposed, was
                  astonished at the proficiency of her son. He was to her a perfect prodigy, and she
                  saw in him the future man who was to be her chief and efficient instrument in
                  carrying out the sole design of her life. He was bold in his villainy, and she
                  liked it better than the low cunning she had always seen in Smithers. He had no
                  cowardice, was reckless in the extreme; and this, too, made him appear, when
                  compared with his father, in a most flattering light. Instead, then, of chiding
                  him for his vulgarity, profanity, and plottings in crime, she applauded all he did
                  and said.
               Miss Wellington, let me do her the justice to say, would once have shuddered at
                  her present course, and would sooner have thought of killing a son than making him
                  a thief; but circumstances had conspired against all that was kind in her nature,
                  and turned her into a hag and a fiend. Had she been loved and treated with
                  affection, and her child cared for, she would have been different; for few can
                  evade the good effects, the mild influence, of tenderness and generosity. But her
                  confidence had been abused, her peace destroyed, by the very one who had sworn to
                  cherish and love her; and now for seven long years she had been an outcast of
                  society, and had descended from a
                  pleasant and social station, first to one of loneliness and labor, then to one of
                  want and misery.
               "Charles, my son," said Miss Wellington to him, the morning after his return from
                  London, "come and sit down near me, for I have something particular to caution you
                  about. I know you are up to the ways of the world, still a mother's words may
                  sometimes be of service. Keep you from all great crimes that can subject you to
                  transportation or imprisonment for any length of time, for I have a great work yet
                  to perform—one that will bring wealth to both of us—and my dependence is solely
                  upon you."
               "Let us know it, mother," exclaimed the son, rubbing his hands, as if ready at
                  once to go at it. "I'll do it, hang me if I don't; and I'll do it up till it nicks
                  'em."
               "You are not yet old enough, my boy, though your understanding is sufficient. I
                  will tell you the nature of it, that you may see what is required of you. Smithers
                  has bound himself to me, by a written document, to bestow on you his fortune, if
                  he has no heirs. He also obtained from one Bolaro, an Italian, whom he probably
                  murdered, all the titles to large estates in Italy, and a vast deal of cash. This,
                  also, he has promised shall be yours if he has no children by his own wife. His
                  heirs will also inherit a vast fortune from is wife's father—the father of Mrs.
                  Jones,—unless Mr. Jones has children, which will then divide the property;—the
                  fathers being the guardians, and having entire control of the bequests."
               "Well, mother, go it! I see it all! We'll have the whole on't!" exclaimed the boy,
                  with an oath, and in great glee.
               "Now, as Smithers will look out that Jones has no children who live, you must look
                  out that Smithers has none. Mark me, Charley, I do not say you are to kill them.
                  No; but you can steal them, and make them beggars like yourself."
               "Good! mother, you're not a slow covy!" cried Charley, giving her a slap on the
                  back.
               "You are also to steal the documents which he stole from the Italian," continued
                  the excited mother; and she clinched her sinewy fingers tight around the arm of
                  the boy, "and there we have him; for should he dare to make known his loss, the
                  public will learn how he came by the property—and I can aid them in clucidating
                  the affair—and his neck will stretch for it;" and here the cadaverous face of
                  poor, suffering Margaret, twisted itself into a kind of satanic smile, which
                  passed as soon as the vision of the swinging Smithers went by.
               "All right, mother! I'm your boy to send him to h—I. I'll get the old sneak's
                  documents, you may be sure on't."
               "You'll remain at home awhile, Charley, for we have now enough to live on;
                  besides, I am not well, and want you to bring me wood and water, and take a little
                  care of me; for though I'm now only a little over thirty years of age, I feel like
                  an old decrepid crone, and as though my life was fast passing away. You little
                  know, my poor boy, how quickly a mind on the rack can wear out the body."
               "Never fear, mother! I'll stick by you, and we'll by and by give 'um a rap on the
                  blinking side!"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVI.
               MRS. SMITHERS had so narrowly watched Aluine, that she came to a just conclusion
                  in regard to her attachment to Alfierdermo; and having succeeded in confirming her
                  opinion, through the agency of Miss Wellington, resolved to intercept her
                  half-sister's correspondence, and create for her a deep and permanent source of
                  anguish. To accomplish this, she, by rich presents, bribed Aluine's servant; and
                  giving her minute instructions concerning the manner by which she should win the
                  entire confidence of her mistress, (this being essential to the obtaining of the
                  letters Aluine wrote to Alfierdermo), doubted not the result. The letters written
                  by the latter, Mrs. Smithers had already found the means of obtaining before they
                  fell into the proper hands. The servant followed implicitly the instructions of
                  Mrs. Smithers, and was as successful as could be desired. The first letter,
                  written by her after her return from Glasgow, was as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MY OWN DEAR FIELLO:—
                           
                           Since thou didst leave me, I have written to thee each month, and have
                              received six sweet, precious responses; but for the last three months,
                              when I most needed thy assurances of love and devotion, not a line has
                              reached me.
                           When in Glasgow, and very ill, life seemed of little moment to me,
                              because thou wast not with me; and if by dying I could have come to
                              thee, Oh! how willingly I would have stepped through the flimsy veil
                              of mortality! I suffered much, much for thee; but Oh! there was a
                              precious joy in it all, because it was for thee I
                              suffered!
                           Wilt thou not write to me, love? If thou couldst dream of the
                              beatitude thy dear letters—penned by thine own dear hand—create, thou
                              wouldst when away, if thou didst love me, spend all thy time in
                              writing and dreaming.
                           Precious Fiello, I have a thousand kind thoughts to tell to thee; and
                              Oh! I have so much needed thy present counsel, thy looks of love, thy
                              words of consolation, that I hardly know how I have lived to write of
                              it. I know not if I have acted to please thee; but Oh! be assured that
                              I have done what I thought best, and as I thought would
                              meet with thy best approval!
                           Tell me, adored Fiello! if thou art still mine, and believe me
                              ever,
                           
                              THY LORMA."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The last letter from Alfierdermo, intercepted by Mrs. Smithers, ran thus:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Woman's falsity is proverbial; but Oh! dearest Lorma, I cannot even
                              now, for any length of time, entertain the idea that thou art not all
                              mine, though to my last letter thou last vouchsafed no reply.
                           I have no faith in Fatality—in its common acceptation—but I have in
                              the adaptedness of one creature for another by the design of the Creator.
                              That thou wert made for me, and that thy spirit cannot be
                              separated from mine, I firmly believe; yet believing, I cannot
                              reconcile with it, thy silence.
                           Has some uncouth word cast a shadow on the page I've sent to thee,
                              which should have been as transcendantly pure as thy own dear self?
                              Has some half-expressed sentiment been misinterpreted by thee, and the
                              blame cast on me, and not on the poverty of language?
                           Oh! my soul's idol! if in aught I have offended, pardon me, I pray
                              thee, as I now bow down at thy feet, and kiss the hem of thy
                              garment!
                           My father, still remaining ill, detains me here; but if kind heaven
                              favors his recovery, the wild bird's flight to his native woods is not
                              swifter than mine will be to thee.
                           Light of my soul, a sweet adieu.
                           
                              FIELLO."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               A month passed, and Alfierdermo received no answer to his letter, and Aluine none
                  to hers. A fountain of sorrow was broken up in their hearts, and the sunshine of
                  peace, thenceforth, seldom gilded its tainted waters. The confidence in each
                  other's truth still remained as the main pillar in their existence; but a belief
                  that some powerful influence had been exerted over the mind of the other,
                  possessed both, and they began to feel that only in the spirit-land would they be
                  united and happy.
               Mrs. Smithers, though she had resolved many times never again to enter the house
                  of Mr. Jones, could not now refrain her steps in that direction, so great was her
                  desire to see the effects of her pious villainy, and exult over it.
               Early in the morning, after Mrs. Smithers had read Alfierdermo's letter, she
                  called on Mrs. Jones; and not sending up her name, for fear she might not have an
                  audience, seated herself in the light of a broad window, where she could have a
                  chance to see plainly the working of the features of the victim she intended there
                  to a "haul over the coals." Mrs. Jones soon came down, and astonished at the
                  intrusion—for she knew well that only one motive could have actuated the
                  visit—received Mrs. Smithers with marked and cutting coolness.
               Mrs. Smithers felt her position, and was determined to pay for it, and so began
                  with:—"Mrs. Jones, from a high sense of duty as a relative of yours, I have come
                  to warn you from your present course of conduct, which is making you the talk of
                  London. That respectability, which it has been my pride to maintain for you, you
                  are fast undermining; and the day is not distant, if you do not change your
                  course, when you will sink into ruin and obscurity."
               "Your rebukes may be fully merited, Mrs. Smithers," replied Mrs. Jones, "but when
                  I wish for your advice or censure, I will do myself the honor to send for
                  you."
               "Do not be angry with me, I pray you, Mrs. Jones, for I mean you only good," said
                  Mrs. Smithers, the lie almost choking her. "My husband, you know, has business
                  with many Italians, and among others with Alfierdermo's father. He has just
                  received a letter from the old gentleman, in which he sends the affectionate
                  regards of his son, whom he says is reconciled to and enjoying his new bride in a
                  Villetta near Genoa."
               
               "Oh, do not say that!" exclaimed Aluine, almost dropping from her chair, "for it
                  is not true. The old man is very ill, and good Alfierdermo is taking care of
                  him."
               "I believe he was ill for a few days," said Mrs. Smithers, very
                  composedly, and as though she had not noticed the interest her half-sister had
                  shown in the news; "but he recovered, and attended to business as usual. Did
                  Alfierdermo tell you he would return as soon as his father was convalescent."
               "He said he should fly to me," answered Aluine, but without knowing what she said,
                  so lost was she in a chaos of thought.
               "His young bride, they say, is beautiful,—a woman of high rank, of brilliant
                  attainments, and of a princely fortune," continued Mrs. Smithers, as though she
                  had heard no reply to her former remark.
               "Who tells you all this," said Aluine, with a wild and searching look.
               "And then there are so many attractions in Italy for young men,—aye, and old men,"
                  resumed Mrs. Smithers, "that no wonder he loves to remain there. I much doubt if
                  he ever visits again our damp and sunless clime."
               "Doubt it, do you say?" exclaimed Aluine, and her eyes dilated, as though light
                  drew near to them, her face became pale, and her hands, folded over each other,
                  pressed hard upon her heart, convulsed with love and fear. In a moment her head
                  sunk on her bosom, and she was insensible.
               Mrs. Smithers knew nothing of, and had not calculated on the strength of this
                  young woman's attachment; so when she saw her as it were in the arms of death, she
                  became came horribly frightened, and turned all her attentions to reviving her.
                  But as soon as signs of life returned, she rejoiced in the power she found she
                  possessed over her rival.
               "My dear sister," said Mrs. Smithers, soothingly, "do not notice my remarks. But
                  still, since I see your strong attachment to this man while you have a husband, it
                  is my duty as a Christian to urge you to break it off—to abandon this sinful
                  course. Can you love him, when you know he has a wife and is unfaithful to his
                  vows? Can he, think you, look on you with respect and confidence, knowing you also
                  to be unfaithful?"
               Aluine sat with her face buried in her hands, and, the tears trickled fast through
                  her fingers, but she said nothing; her sobs, however, told something of her
                  sufferings.
               "First of all, to seek to win your love when you was already wed, shows him to be
                  a man of no honor or principle, and"—
               "Hold!" exclaimed Aluine, struggling with her grief and anger. "You do not know
                  him! Every word you utter against him is false!—wholly, utterly, cruelly false! No
                  human being breathes who has more honor. No mortal lives who cherishes purer
                  principles! He never sought me, nor sought to win my love by word, by look or
                  deed. When I first met him, we did not speak; but God, who is Love, commingled our
                  hearts—united us in His own pure essence, and we were for eternity one. When we
                  next met, it was by accident, and accident revealed to us that we could not live
                  without each other. Oh! he is good! I will risk my soul's eternal welfare on his
                  goodness."
               
               "This is but the delirium of sinful passion, which will pass away when you draw
                  near the grave," said Mrs. Smithers, who, perhaps, really thought so, for she knew
                  little of what Aluine was talking about.
               "The grave!" cried Aluine, turning towards heaven her large blue eyes, still full
                  of tears, "Oh, how vastly more welcome would it be with my Fiello, than life can
                  ever be without him."
               "How, Mrs. Jones, can you talk thus, and not consider it wicked in the extreme?
                  Have you not a husband living whom you have sworn to love and honor?"
               "In that only was I wicked, and there I wronged only myself. I did
                  pledge my word to love him, but then I did not know that I could not
                  love him. I thought, as he was good and kind, that by living in his presence I
                  should day by day grow more fond of him, and thence our home would become a
                  Paradise; but alas! when I came to understand the true nature of my heart, I saw
                  the incompatibility of my vows, and pleading for mercy, believed that God forgave
                  me my youthful error."
               "Oh, what vain sophistry you rest your eternal salvation upon!" said Mrs.
                  Smithers, assuming a look of the deepest commisseration. "If all this be true, why
                  do you live with Mr. Jones?"
               "Because," replied Aluine," I desire to serve him and fulfil, as far as I am
                     able, all the vows I made to him. Then there is now no alternative
                  but to remain in a negative existence, even though it kills me."
               "If Mr. Jones did not treat you well, you might have some excuse for your aversion
                  to him, and I could under-stand why you should think of and long for another."
               "Oh! you, who cannot comprehend the beautiful character of Alfierdermo,—can never
                  know why he should mingle in my every dream of happiness. You speak of Mr. Jones's
                     treatment (I use the word as you mean it) of me, as though that
                  had anything to do with my existence. He gives me my food, my clothes, my shelter;
                  but having always had them, they seem but the necessary consequents of corporeal
                  being claimed a priori, and elicit not more
                  gratitude than I feel for the stream that quenches my thirst. But oh! that
                  fountain which supplies the thirsty spirit is of heaven. It is that
                  portion of the waters of life' sent to refresh 'God's image' as he walks through
                  the dry valleys of this earth. But my husband knows not of it, dreams not of it,
                  draws not from it. Thus you see we live together without being wedded—that we are
                  wedded without living together; and this is called marriage."
               "And you would go still further, I suppose," said Mrs. Smithers, getting angry
                  because she could not comprehend what seemed so plain to, and excited such
                  touching and heartfelt eloquence in the one she had resolved to destroy, "and
                  denounce it as legalized prostitution, and abuse even our church for sanctioning
                  anything so immoral."
               "I am morally certain," responded Aluine, "that both the civil and ecclesiastical
                  framers and executors of the laws, as they exist in regard to this matter, must be
                  held accountable at the day of judgment, for the millions on millions of
                  crimes—crimes hideous and diabolical—into which they have impelled their
                  unsuspecting, unresisting victims. Seldom a day passes in which some one or
                     other of our journals does not bring
                  us an account of a husband murdering his wife, or a wife her husband,—and all
                  because they know of no other way of retrieving an error in their judgment. Poor
                  mortals! Allowed fallibility in all other decisions, but in this they must be
                  infallible, or be doomed to a life of misery, or to a deed of crime. Oh! would to
                  God that 'peace and good will' could envelope the whole earth, and that purity,
                  virtue, truth and harmony could so fill the world, that, as in heaven, there would
                  be no' marriage and no giving in marriage,' but all be like the angels in glory,
                  wedded in the Creator's love."
               "As I have before told you," said Mrs. Smithers, "you are insane,—and I now add
                  that you are wickedly selfish. Your opinions are wholly at variance with common
                  sense, and if carried out, would destroy society and fill the earth with sin."
               "Far from it," replied Aluine,—her eyes brightening as if inspiration from the
                  Millennium had been sent to illumine her soul,—"they would remove the
                     causes of sin, of crime, of iniquity. If this is wicked, then I
                  will answer to my Maker for it. The highest aspiration of my heart is, that all
                  should be good, and not one of my fellow creatures suffer. If this is selfishness,
                  then I am indeed selfish."
               "You would have the world swayed by passion instead of law," persisted Mrs.
                  Smithers.
               "Is not God Love?" asked Aluine, placing her hand upon her heart, as if she would
                  be understood to speak with all reverence. "It is God whom I would have fill the
                  world. Would not war, and murder, and all the evils which spring from hate, envy,
                  pride, revenge, ambition, then cease? Indeed, as God is my witness—as I hope for
                  happiness hereafter, I would this day give my poor life a sacrifice for such a
                  consummation."
               "If you would have love so universal," said Mrs. Smithers, tauntingly, "Why do you
                  not love your husband? You own he does not abuse you!"
               "Oh, you will not understand me! Love is not a voluntary emotion. A mother loves
                  her child from the very necessity of her nature. You speak of abuse. If
                  Alfierdermo should abuse me, I could not help loving him. If he
                  should put upon my back the harshest stripes while I kneeled at his feet, and the
                  blood should stream to the cutting lash, I could not, if I looked up into his
                  face, but love and adore him. Oh God! Yes; through scorn, and hate, and harshness,
                  and toil, and in death, I am his—all, all his!" and again burying her face in her
                  hands, she sobbed aloud.
               "Notwithstanding all my prayers and exertions," said Mrs. Smithers, rising to go,
                  "I see there is no prospect of redeeming you from the sinful course you have
                  entered upon; and if you come to disgrace and ruin, I hope you will not blame
                     me, but rather that vile Italian, that viper, whom you harbor in
                  your bosom."
               "I have told you, Mrs. Smithers," said Aluine, still deeply affected, "that I
                  would not listen to any language abusive of my Fiello; and your visits, be
                  assured, will never be agreeable till all scandal and all calumniation of our
                  fellow-creatures of both sexes, cease to enter into your conversation."
               "Well, madam, just as you please," replied Mrs. Smithers, reddening with the
                  intensity of her anger; "but when you
                  get to the bottom of your fall—and fall you surely will—do not blame me," and she
                  flaunted out of the room as though contamination and pestilence filled it.
               When Mrs. Smithers was gone, Aluine threw herself on the sofa, and gave way to a
                  flood of tears. "Why have I listened to that foolish woman," said she to herself,
                  "and why have I so unbosomed myself to her, who I know will make the worst
                  possible use of it? But I could not help it. She came to find out my secrets, and
                  she succceded. But oh! Fiello! Fiello! I will not believe a word against thee! I
                  will not do thy pure heart the injustice to harbor against thee, for one moment,
                  one wronging thought! No! When I forget my beautiful mother's love—when the birds
                  return not to their mates—Lorma may believe that her Fiello is false!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               On the southern coast of England there is a small seaport town, called Falmouth.
                  It is in the county of Cornwall, at the mouth of the river Fal, and is unlike
                  almost every other town of Great Britain. Without the quaint look of Chester, the
                  bustling progress of Manchester, the thriftiness of Liverpool, it is a place of
                  considerable business notoriety, from the fact that it has become the regular
                  station of packet boats which carry foreign mails to all parts of the world. It
                  is, too, of importance in its direct relationship with the Cornish mines, from
                  which it derives a vast deal of trade; while its peculiarly antique look, its
                  narrow, dirty streets, its groups of low and grotesque dwellings, would make one
                  readily suppose himself in some half-Moorish village or peublo Espanol.
               
               About half a mile from the southern extremity of the main street, which extends
                  for a great distance along the beach, stands a two-story house, with two small
                  windows on one side and two large ones on the other, and an entrance from a court.
                  The chamber of that dwelling was once occupied by Margaret Wellington; and it was
                  there where the light of a once gay and generous spirit went out in the saddest
                  loneliness.
               Margaret Wellington was now called Mrs. Wellington, for she had with her a boy who
                  she said was hers, though no one in
                  Falmouth knew of her ever having had a husband. The fact, however, that she had
                  been truly wedded to some one, was generally believed, for when impertinent
                  curiosity questioned her on the subject, she maintained, with some degree of
                  sincerity, that her partner was in the spirit-land—it really being true that she
                  had loved an ideal whose personal had not been presented to her
                  mortal vision.
               Of Mrs. Wellington's early history we shall say more hereafter. At the time we now
                  refer to she was miserably poor. One night, as she sat alone, brooding over a few
                  coals, which hardly sufficed to keep her hands warm, a rude, ragged, dirty boy,
                  large, and of a premature look, though only about twelve years of age, burst in
                  upon her. "Well, mother!" exclaimed he, "you see I am back again, and as destitute
                  as ever," and he swaggered along, looked cautiously about him, then cocked his eye
                  knowingly, as much as to say he liked to tell a lie for the sheer fun of it.
               The woman, Charles Wellington addressed, had not seemed to notice his entrance—in
                  fact she had become almost wholly indifferent to the external world; but as he
                  drew a seat up alongside of her, touched her on the shoulder, she was aroused to a
                  more painful sense of her wretched condition. As soon as he was recognized, the
                  boy slapped his hand on his pocket, which jingled as if full of coin.
               "Villain!" exclaimed the mother, starting up and seizing him by the arm; "I did
                  not send you to London to steal, but to beg. Give me the money instantly, that I
                  may secrete it, for perhaps the police are following you— are already on your
                  track—already at the door;" at which instant the noise of the cat, jumping from a
                  neighboring bench, caused them both to scream out and turn pale with affright.
                  "Ah, wretch! wretch!" continued she; "but tell me how you obtained this money, and
                  if you saw the villain Smithers!"
               "Don't be alarmed, old woman," said the boy. "The money came from old Smithers's
                  drawers when he least suspected it. I did not go there with the intention of
                  stealing, but to beg of him, as you told me to; but as he did not recognize me. I
                  hinted to him about some of his not very religious deeds; at which he drove me
                  from his presence, and threatened me with kicks if I ever appeared there again.
                  When I reached the walk I turned and laughed him in the face, and told him I would
                  appear to him hereafter, in the shape of nightmares; and I rather reckon he will
                  have one that will sit heavy on him, when he finds his gold missing. Hah! hah!
                  Don't you think so?"
               "How can you laugh, child, when you are steeped in crime, and I in misery?"
               "I, old woman? Do you call it crime to steal from such a cursed
                  miser? He is not a man, and there is not one who knows him (but there are none who
                  know him), but would wrinkle his own heart with laughter to hear that the old
                  villain was murdered."
               "Hush! hush! child. Use not that horrid word; it curdles the blood of my heart,
                  and makes you look as one ready for black deeds. No! no! child. But give me the
                  money."
               
               "On one condition only will I give you the money, old woman; which is, that that
                  little imp, Tzella, who thinks herself so much better than everybody else, shall
                  be sent from here—put out of the way as soon as possible. Tomorrow a vessel sails
                  with miners for the Island of Cuba, and you have cunning enough to tell a good
                  story to get her off. Will you do it, or not?"
               "Charles, I have long thought of getting rid of her. You know why I hate her, and
                  why I have kept her, and now, as you—shrewd boy!—tell of a good way to be fairly
                  free of her, I will do it. The method her mother has taken to conceal her
                  existence renders it not only politic, but proper; and to-morrow I will hunt up
                  the agent, and if he will give me anything for her, or if he will only take her
                  and agree to keep her, he shall have her."
               "Right! old woman, and here's the money!" exclaimed the boy, and he dragged from
                  his pockets about a hundred sovereigns, while the mother, trembling, with shame
                  and fear, hastened to sew them up in the skirt of an under petticoat she, had
                  on.
               "Ah, you are a cunning wench, as the Brummies say, for who but you would have
                  thought of that method of darkening money. It's safe; for I don't believe the
                  Charleys will be hunting there after it, unless it be by your own consent, eh?"
                  and he gave her a knowing wink.
               "Take that, you little wretch!" said Margaret, as she hit him a hard rap on the
                  side of his head. "You boys who grow up in cities get your brains crammed with
                  everything that is evil, before there is a chance to store there one good
                  principle. As to myself—if I have a wicked impulse in my heart, if I have any
                  cunning, I obtained tained it during the years I lived with that live hypocrite
                  Smithers. I've seen him cheat the poor servants of their supper by accidentally
                  losing the key of the pantry. I've seen him give to beggars the false money he
                  could not pass to others. I've seen him give short pay to his wife's dress-maker's
                  little girl, and make her believe when she returned for the remaining, that she
                  had lost it; and so let her go away with eyes blinded by tears, and a heart almost
                  bursting. I've seen him hide his money in his cravat, and put it on when he went
                  to bed, and so wear it all night—no, I mistake, I—"
               "Ah, old woman! how should you know anything about his wearing his money about his
                  neck all night, eh? But, I know all, and I'll not peach, no, not I;" and he
                  fumbled in his pocket for a cigar, while his mother, turning away, began poking
                  the coals which had given their last light and heat, and were now burned out.
               "Good," continued the boy; "I just now remember, that in the vessel which sails
                  with miners, Johnson, Cally's lover, goes out as mate. Go to him; he'll take the
                  little gipsy and sell her when he gets out there; for Cally hates her as much as I
                  do."
               "No, boy," replied the mother, "he must be kept in the dark respecting her, lest
                  he trace out the secret and expose us; but I will go to the agent, and tell him,
                  that a poor relation, dying, had left the child with me, and that as I am too poor
                  to take care of her, if he will give her small wages, and leave orders to have it
                  all paid here to me, he may take her to pick ores, and work about as the children
                  do up here in our Cornish mines."
               
               "That's the ticket! That's the go! Then we'll have enough for ourselves, and
                  she'll find that to be a lady isn't quite so easy a matter as her little pertship
                  has supposed. I'll go and give her a kick for my farewell, and then I'll to my
                  bunk. Keep a good look-out, and if you see the Charleys about, give me warning,
                  and I'll be off as the rooks are from the chimneys when the smoke gets in their
                  eyes."
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               IN another part of the world, at the very moment Stella was pronouncing those
                  emphatic words which so calmed the troubled mind of her worthy husband—words which
                  in her mouth were expressive of adoration and grateful content, a little child,
                  with eyes streaming with tears, and little hands clasped and lifted up in
                  supplication, knelt beside a narrow berth, all alone, and uttered the same
                  sentiment—"God is good." With this fragile voyager, however—this lily broken from
                  the parent stem, and about to be swept away by the rough stream of adverse
                  fortune—this was neither an expression of gratitude nor resignation; it gushed up
                  naturally as a necessity of the human heart under a sense of loneliness; and was
                  said over and over again in the most tender and earnest manner, to establish in
                  her own mind a conviction that what she repeated was really true, and to gain
                  courage by the companionship of sound, as children do who sing in the dark.
               "Ah, my little Santisima—at prayers, eh?" said a
                  rough voice to the child, as the curtain of her room was put aside, "Well, you can
                  have as much of that as you like for about forty or fifty days, but after that you
                  will probably be on your knees for a different purpose, and with more work for
                  your hands than for your tongue."
               
               "And shall I not then be allowed to pray?" said she, rising and casting a most
                  imploring look into the dark face before her; "Indeed, the labor which I am told I
                  must go about when I reach the far-off island does not worry me, for I shall like
                  to work; but if I cannot pray to God, who is always good, I should die; for Mother
                  Wellington always told me to pray—to never sleep without saying my prayers: and
                  then, she said, God always listened to and loved the voice of little children—that
                  it was like the incense of early flowers."
               "Nonsense!" exclaimed the listener, "why didn't your mother teach you something
                  useful, instead of filling your head with poetry, and fancy, and fine flummery?
                  But you'll soon get over all that. You'll have here the incense of tarred ropes;
                  and a little sea sickness will bring you to such a feeling sense of
                  this world's realities, that if you had been born an alligator you
                  could not be freer from feminine fooleries. Yes, little Miss; but don't be
                  alarmed; nobody will hurt you. You'll hear a great deal of noise and racket over
                  your head, but there's no fear. The vessel is stout and strong, and will yet
                  carry, I suppose, many a cargo of these foolish miners to that fatal port of St.
                  Jago;" and he shook his head as if saddened by the thought, and turned away to his
                  duties.
               "Cast off the forward hawser," roared a voice through a huge brass speaking
                  trumpet, "and let her swing off a little. Fill away the fore-topsail. Cast off
                  all."
               At the last bidding the vessel reeled to the wind—she was free and afloat. Then
                  followed the rapid steps of the busy mariner, the squeaking of blocks, the
                  rattling of the rigging, mingled with the merry song of the sailors as they swayed
                  up the broad fields of filling canvass, and unfurled the lighter sails to the
                  breeze.
               "Brace up the fore yard. Down tacks, aft sheets, out bowlines. Hoist the
                  main-top-gallant sail. Lay aloft and loose the main-royal. Port the helm. Steady,"
                  were the orders that followed in quick succession, to the great amusement of all
                  the passengers. I have said, to the amusement of all the passengers; but I should
                  make one exception in the person of the poor stranger-child, whom we have called
                  Tzella. With no one to explain anything to her, she thought that the people were
                  struggling and killing each other on the deck above her; and, almost dying with
                  fright, she crept into her berth and hid herself beneath the clothes. How long she
                  remained thus, listening and praying, she little knew, but at last, overcome by
                  fatigue, she sank to sleep, with her lips reposing as they were left by the last
                  words she uttered—"God is good!" Her pure, white thoughts had ascended to heaven
                  on the wings of her faith, and now launched as literally on the wide ocean of life
                  as on the broad waters of the world, she was an object worthy of the sympathy and
                  love of all.
               The first three days out were days of storms, after which it cleared off, and the
                  officers had time to look about them.
               "Where's that little girl who came on board with the rest of the miners?" said the
                  chief mate to the captain. "I have not seen her since the first evening we hoisted
                  sail, when I found her on her knees praying. And, by the way, in talking to her, I
                  noticed that she answered like one who had had a religious and well educated
                  mother; while it seemed to me very strange that she should be sent off so, to an
                  unhealthy climate, and at so tender an age,—be made to herd with those ignorant
                  miners, and be thought of any value in
                  that peculiar and almost mysterious branch of business."
               "Ah, Mr. Mate, you have not been in this trade as long as I have; and I can tell
                  you, that in mines, as well as in factories, children have their enervating,
                  cruel, daily tasks—tasks in which they render as much service as one could past
                  adolescense, and by which, perhaps they earn not enough to keep either body or
                  soul decently clothed. You have, doubtless, read of, and wondered over, the labor
                  of children in the Hymalaya mountains, without once imagining that the same was
                  imposed on sons and daughters of your own countrymen. The miners of Gungowly and
                  Barabice are farmed out to Teekedars, who contract for slave or other labor in the
                  most advantageous manner. The levels or passages are driven into the side of the
                  mountain, along the vein of ore, but of so small a size as to allow only children
                  to crawl in and out readily. The result is, that all employed there are horribly
                  deformed. Scores of children under twelve years of age are forced day by day into
                  these long galleries. On arriving at the terminus—sometimes hundreds of feet
                  distant from the mouth—a leathern bag of ore is attached to their shoulders by a
                  strap, which they, on their hands and knees, drag out to the light. Thus they pass
                  their miserable lives, with only a blessed certainty that death will not evade
                  them many years."
               "But you cannot suppose," said the mate, inquiringly, "that this
                  little delicate girl is to be subjected to any such hardships?"
               "Ah, Mr. Mate, when you have been so long in this trade as I have, you will
                  believe that these mine agents, like the agents on Irish estates, pay no regard to
                  the necessities, sufferings, capacities of tenants. They have their
                     masters to please, and it must be done, or they lose
                  their lucrative places. You know Sir Charles Lemons? an able and generous man in
                  these matters, but, like an absent landlord, knows nothing of the modus operandi by which his interests are
                  sustained—nothing of the means by which the wealthy shareholders obtain their
                  enormous proceeds from these foreign mines. No, Mr. Mate, cognizant as I have been
                  of the 'tricks of this trade,' I am little liable to be astonished at anything;
                  and I assure you, shall not be surprised to learn that she—the puny thing you
                  speak of—is destined for the dark caverns of St. Jago."
               "I cannot credit it, captain," replied the mate; "but I will go at once and see
                  her, and find out for myself."
               The first officer, like most seafaring men, had a rough exterior but a kind heart,
                  and descending to Tzella's room was almost overwhelmed with commiseration at the
                  sight before him. There lay the poor child, almost breathing her last breath, and
                  faintly calling, "mother, mother, mother!" She had evidently tasted no food for
                  the four days they had been at sea, and had she not been discovered at the moment
                  she was, would have been beyond human aid. The mate saw at once the danger of
                  delay, and, seizing her in his arms, rushed on deck. Reaching the galley, he found
                  some soup that was prepared for dinner, which he proceeded to administer little by
                  little, with most cheering results. He then replaced her in bed, allowed her a
                  little sleep, then awoke her to receive more nourishment ishment; and thus unremittingly and feelingly
                  tended her till all danger was past.
               We will not attempt any description of the joy the good mate felt, when, a few
                  days after the events we have just described, little Tzella ran along the deck,
                  and throwing her arms about his neck, expressed with tears and half-uttered words
                  such gratitude as would have satisfied the most exacting of benefactors.
               As Tzella grew strong, she grew playful, and in a short time was the pet of all
                  the sailors. The mate, when off duty, always had her by the hand or held her on
                  his knee. His dark face had lost its sternness to her, for she saw in his mild
                  eyes the charities of a good heart. She would clutch his tarpaulin, or more homely
                  sou'-wester, and fling it on the deck, and sometimes almost overboard; but ere he
                  could reprimand her, she had won his favor by pushing back his dark hair from his
                  forehead, or twining her little fingers in his black bushy whiskers. She was not
                  neglected even when the mate was at his official post, for then he had many a kind
                  word for her; and in the long watches of the night he was often gladdened by her
                  companionship, which beguiled the hours of their tediousness.
               Weeks sped away, and the vessel neared the port of her destination. The winds came
                  more warm and mild, and beautiful birds were seen about the rigging, or flying
                  northward and southward from one island to another, till Tzella seemed filled with
                  the idea that she was approaching Paradise. The grief which at times had torn her
                  like a tempest when she thought of her young playmates far away, had entirely
                  subsided. O, how wise that Providence which so soon wipes from the youthful mind
                  the deepest est stamp of sorrow! If one, knowing no home nor parents, could be
                  happy, it was now our Tzella.
               We tremble at the approaching storm, while it brings, perhaps, the very seedlings
                  of utmost beatitude! We court the languid content of the warm southern breeze,
                  laden, for aught we know, with desolation! We are finite! This is also a wise
                  provision of Providence.
               One morning the mate did not appear on deck, and, of course, Tzella felt lonesome.
                  She wandered about awhile among the sailors, and then stole below to the officer's
                  state-room. Her gentle knock was answered by a—"come in, Tzella; I thought
                     you would be down to see me," and he reached out his hand to help
                  her slide back his heavy door.
               "What is the matter, good Mr. Mate," said the child, "why don't you come on deck?
                  we are so lonesome without you."
               "I am quite ill this morning, my little bird, but shall be with you in a day or
                  two. In the mean time you will take good care of me?" said the mate,
                  interrogatively.
               "Indeed I will," said the little girl, patting her hands. "I will take the best
                  care of you, for you saved me from dying, and have been so good all the time. I
                  will go now and tell the steward to make you some broth; and I will tell the
                  captain to send you some medicine from the medicine chest; and I will come and
                  read to you. But ah! I have no bible with me," and she stood thoughtful a moment;
                  after which, in a lower voice, she said, "but I will pray for you here, as you saw
                  me pray when I first came on board; and as God is good, He will hear me.—Mother
                  Wellington always said He would hear me."
               
               The good mate grew worse, and Tzella tended him. She brought to him all he asked
                  for, and as he had taken from his chest a bible—(a small and richly bound volume,
                  presented to him by his betrothed)—she read to him from its comforting pages. At
                  night, after he had fallen asleep, she kneeled beside him and prayed; and bowing
                  her head down to the very floor, mingled burning tears with her earnest
                  supplications for the recovery of her kind friend.
               One night, when feeling more ill than usual, the poor man called little Tzella to
                  him, gave her the bible, and told her if she ever met with the one whose name was
                  written in it, to tell her he died thinking of her. Some hours afterwards the
                  captain was suddenly called below to see the last struggle of his worthy mate,
                  who, with a few kind words for the care of Tzella, sunk to his long sleep.
               On the following morning when Tzella came on deck, all the men, with heads
                  uncovered, were gathered aft, about a human form, wrapped up tightly in a piece of
                  new and well stitched canvas. The forward sails had been thrown aback and all
                  rigging made fast. The most solemn stillness seemed to have settled on all created
                  things, and an impressive sadness was depicted on every sun-burnt visage. Tzella
                  crept softly along, and looking up into the faces of each, sought to read what her
                  own heart had already begun to reveal to her. At that moment the bell on the
                  forward deck tolled out its startling funereal notes. They seemed to fill the
                  still air with mourning, and struck upon the ear of the little listener as her own
                  knell. She approached the captain, and as he opened on the capstan the holy
                  volume, she kneeled down close to his feet, and in silence watched and wept. When
                  a chapter had been read, the corpse was placed on a board, ready to be slid over
                  the ship's side. The dreariest of pauses succeeded. A signal was then given, the
                  bell tolled again, and the blue waters of the deep wrapped their folds about the
                  poor mate, and he rested in that bosom that had borne him and rocked him from
                  infancy upward.
               On the following day, Tzella sat alone on the quarter deck, tracing on her memory
                  the sad lessons of her little life; but none now heeded her. The mate only had
                  learned her history, and no one else had cared enough for her to ask it; and when
                  the high rocks on the right and left of the entrance of the harbor of St. Jago
                  were being passed; when, after winding up the long, narrow bay, and the sound of
                  the chain cable rattled to the weight of the anchor "let go"—she seemed as one
                  bereft of hope, if not of the very breath of life.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               TZELLA—the poor little, lonely Tzella—busy with thoughts of home, long continued
                  her position on the quarter-deck, before any one took sufficient notice of her to
                  rouse her to a consciousness of the importance of the changes about to take place.
                  Eventually some Spanish officers from the Dugana
                  having arrived on board to examine the ship's papers, spoke to her with their
                  usual blandness of manners, and remarked on the regularity of her features and the
                  delicacy of her skin, which most particularly attracted their attention. Their
                  uniform, their affable address, soon found way through the eyes of the little
                  foreigner to her heart, and the past vanished like a shadow. The language she
                  listened to she did not understand; but it had a charm in it, for it was
                  accompanied by every sign of grace and tenderness. She then, for the first time,
                  cast her eyes earnestly abroad. The hills surrounding the harbor, though rugged
                  and uninhabited, had a parental look about them, for they nourished many an object
                  young and tender as herself. The town, with its low tile-covered houses, unlike
                  anything she had ever seen, was peculiarly attractive. Above it, on a commanding
                  spot, stood a little church, which brought to her mind, heaven, her prayers, and
                  desire to have a mother.
               Twilight had lingered long on the summits of the mountains of St. Jago; but when
                  gone, the priests came out with their torches and marched along the shore. It was
                  a festa eve, and seemed to attract the attention
                  of the new comers, and impress their minds with a kind of superstitious awe, and
                  respect for the land they were about to adopt, but on which, as yet, they had not
                  been permitted to place their feet.
               Little Tzella, naturally prayerful, naturally devout, gazed on the scene with the
                  utmost reverence; and fearing that she might be disturbed in her sacred
                  admiration, crept into a corner between a boat, which had been pushed aft, and the
                  quarter railings. There all alone, with nothing gazing on her but the stars and
                  her Creator, she kneeled down, and lifting up her little hands, as in prayer,
                  watched the procession of those, called holy men. She watched on, she knew not how
                  long; but a dimness by and by stole over her eyes, and when the last torch had
                  disappeared behind the almacen of the Compania del Cobre, she was fast asleep—with no
                  covering but the, dew, which came as if shaken from angels' wings, to light on her
                  pallid brow, and stay the fever's heat that had begun to burn about her
                  temples.
               On the following day, when the numerous senseless ceremonies and formalities which
                  retard the transaction of business in all Spanish ports, had been gone through
                  with, a boat came off with the mining agent to take to the shore the newly-arrived
                  miners, very much needed in the new workings of the Company—death having made
                  fearful havoc among its laborers. When little Tzella presented herself at the
                  gang-way to be handed down, she appeared of so delicate and fragile a structure, that the agent exclaimed:—"What have
                  you brought me here?—the last light offspring of consumption?—the gauze of a
                  phantom's chemise? What can I do with her? Of what use can she be? But she will
                  not live a month, and then our mutual difficulties will end. In the meantime, the
                  captain at the mine must find something for her to do by which she can earn her
                  living."
               "Oh! I will work very hard!" said the child, in a voice tremulous with fear, as
                  she descended the rope ladder, "and then you will like me. I know I can pick ores,
                  and do many things at the mines; for little girls, no bigger than me, work all day
                  at the Cornish mines, away off in the country I came from."
               "That was well said, my little girl!" was the agent's response; "you show the
                  right sort of stuff, notwithstanding you look like a lily-stem; and perhaps you
                  are are only a singed kitten, after all."
               Tzella took courage; and when they landed at the wharf, though there was no one to
                  take her by the hand to lead her along the rough way, and comfort her little
                  throbbing heart, something within her breast supported her, talked to her, and
                  gave her strength to proceed. Her guardian spirit did not forsake her.
               They wound their way up a narrow, steep street, that had been hewn out of the lime
                  rock, (which almost destroys the sight of a stranger by its shining whiteness, as
                  the sun pours on it), and reaching a small square where the post office, prison,
                  and other public buildings stood, turned to the right, and entered the court-yard
                  of a Spanish house.
               If on landing Tzella had been amused by the oddity of all she saw, she was more so
                  here by the scene that was being enacted. A hundred mules, huddled together, were
                  receiving their various burdens from slaves, or were waiting more important loads,
                  in the shape of the English miners just arrived. The chief director, or muleteer
                  was on a spirited horse prancing about much to the confusion of the blacks, who
                  were occasionally particularly reminded of his presence by the snap of a whip on
                  their backs, if everything did not go expeditiously.
               I have said that Tzella was amused, but this cruelty to the negroes brought tears
                  into the eyes of the little stranger, who, though alarmed at the black man, on
                  whom she now gazed for the first time, thought he must, have feeling,—unaware that
                  education and refinement made suffering keen, and that ignorance stinted
                  sensibility.
               When the mules were ready for a start, breakfast was ordered, and whites and
                  blacks being seated on the edge of the low verandah, which here, as usual,
                  encircled the court, helped themselves with their fingers from a huge dish of
                  boiled salt meat (Tasaxo) that was passed round. The lack of a plate was soon
                  supplied by the bread, (also distributed) which consisted of large pieces of
                     casave made of the casave root. This article
                  of food was in cakes as big as a hogshead head, and as thin as a penny.
               The negroes and natives enjoyed the repast, but the foreigners thought it hard
                  commons. Some of them threw away both meat and bread, which made the muleteer
                  laugh in his sleeve, and say to himself, "They'll see the day when they'll be glad
                  to come back and pick it up."
               
               When breakfast was finished, the miners mounted the mules and defiled from the
                  court and along the narrow streets as best they could; for many of the English
                  found it difficult to retain their seats—the animals being furnished with no other
                  saddles than the empty sacks in which they had brought ores from the mines. Tzella
                  had not proceeded ten rods before she lost her balance; but being on a very little
                  mule, the distance of her fall was but trifling, and with only a slight bruise she
                  reached the ground. She, however, would have been trampled on by the succeeding
                  train, had not a negro sprang forward and rescued her. This he did with the utmost
                  solicitude; and after having examined her—the blanca
                     maraposa, as he called her—somewhat minutely, to see if she were
                  hurt, replaced her on the beast, and for the remainder of the distance walked
                  beside her, and held her securely in her place. The slave manifested a great
                  interest in her, and the mule seemed aware of the delicate character of the burden
                  he bore, for, to his praise be it said, he stepped with the utmost caution and
                  gentleness.
               In single file—the only way in which either the horses or mules of the country
                  will travel—they passed along the marshes at the east of the town, which, day and
                  night, emit their deadly miasma—the funeral pall about this proverbially unhealthy
                  place—and began to ascend the hills. Tzella could speak to no one, yet she was
                  cheerful,—for the scenery was picturesque and wild, and there was much to amuse
                  her. Large flocks of wild parrots flew from wood to wood or croaked from
                  neighboring trees, where their bright plumage was seen in all its beauty. On
                  reaching the summit of the first range, the shore of the distant bay was again
                  visible, and, to her delight, there was stalking there a large troop of flamingos,
                  which charmed her by their resemblance, she said, to British soldiers.
               After a three hours' ride over valley and hill, they came to the last ascent, and
                  soon dismounted on a height where men, women and children—most of them black—were
                  variously employed; and where the sound of hammers, the puffing of steam engines,
                  the noise of business, told of the power of capital and the ingenuity of man.
               Tzella could not say that she was unhappy. Yet she felt a strange loneliness in
                  the midst of this peopled wilderness; and when the captain came out to call the
                  roll, to see if all had arrived, she found herself in the presence of a
                  stern-visaged, burly Englishman, who, with a huge sword (a Spanish machetta) at
                  his side, and a whip in his hand, looked little mercy at any of them. It took but
                  a few moments to apportion them to their different overseers, and a few moments
                  more found them all as busily at work as though they had been on the spot for
                  years. Little Tzella's turn came, but what was to be done with her? The puerile
                  little monkey, as the man called her, puzzled the superintendent. Unfortunately,
                  however, for the poor creature, at that juncture of affairs a minor officer came
                  from the main shaft, and reported more hands wanted in the long lower level,
                  east.
               "Glad to hear it," answered the supervisor, "for I was just tormenting my head
                  about what to do with this less-than-nothing of a feminine brat. I suppose they
                  can use her below in assorting the ores for the kibble—which will both keep her
                  busy and out of the way. Take her along with such numbers of the new hands as are
                     needed; but mind and report to me at
                  night, the parts of the mines in which their work is appointed."
               "I will attend to it all," said the mate; "so come along, little sniffling, and
                  begin your descent, for it will take you a small age to reach the bottom of the
                  shaft unless you fall, in which case you would arrive very soon. Do you understand
                  going down the ladders?"
               "No sir," said Tzella, trembling from head to foot, as she approached and stood on
                  the brink of the shaft; "I never saw one of those dreadful dark wells till now—and
                  must I go in it?"
               "Indeed you must, miss; and the only safe way for you is to get into the kibble
                  and be lowered down by the engine, and that will take hardly no-time; so jump in,
                  and when you get down there, hop out lively and tell Captain Patten you've come to
                  pick ores."
               "And is there a captain down there who speaks English?" asked Tzella, with eyes
                  streaming with tears, "and do good people live down in that deep well?"
               "Aye, a whole township of them; and if you mind your p's and q's, and help them
                  all you can, they'll like you, and you will be as much at home in a few days as
                  you would in London. To be sure you won't find the 'Strand,' nor the 'Boulevards'
                  there, yet you'll find streets enough to promenade in whenever you feel like
                  it."
               Poor Tzella, in an agony of fear, hardly comprehended a word the man had uttered.
                  She saw hanging at the mouth, of the shaft (a well, as she called it), a large
                  iron bucket, shaped like an egg-shell, with about a quarter of its largest end
                  removed. Into that she had been ordered to place herself; but she had not the
                  power to obey. What was to be done? The difficulty was soon removed, the miner
                  took her, and tossed her into the vessel as he would have done a rag baby into a
                  cradle, and on the next instant (the engineer having removed the sustaining clog
                  of the windlass), she was descending, with a fearful rapidity, down, down, down,
                  into the dark, damp bowels of the earth, one thousand and one hundred feet.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XX.
               WHILE the peasant Bolaro mourns the loss of one of his flock, which has gone
                  astray in the mountains, and Miss Wellington and her son Charley are weaving a sad
                  woof from their own unfortunate hearts; while the Italian stranger sickens to
                  death; while John Knox Calvin Smithers lays down those trains which when fired are
                  to destroy him; while poor forsaken little Tzella descends into the dark caverns
                  of the mines of Cuba; and the beautiful Aluine approaches an eventful epoch in her
                  destiny, there are figuring on the stage other noted characters who, though
                  unbeknown to any of the enumerated debutants,
                  will have much to do with the future happiness of some of them.
               "Have you seen la belle danseuse?" said one of
                  the Italian cantadini to a companion.
               "No. Who do you speak of?"
               "Not seen her!"
               "No."
               "Where could your miserable eyes have been?"
               "In my head, where they should be—and not in thy pocket, as thine are often in
                  mine."
               "They might as well be anywhere else as in your head, seeing, or rather not
                  seeing, you make no use of them; for if a man lives in Italy, Germany, France, or
                  anywhere this side the undiscovered passage at the North Pole, and does not see
                  the 'divine Fanny,' he ought to be Jugernauted for a heartless heathen."
               "That is to say, he should be jugged—eh? Well, it may be so, but for a dancer I
                  can't get up much enthusiasm, though I suppose yours goes up just in
                  proportion as she goes up. You are a perfect thermometer—elevated by heat
                  communicated from abroad."
               "Stenno, you certainly were not stinted in stupidity. Your father could not have
                  had more than one such."
               "You speak truth for once; let me also speak truth and say, Your father might have
                  had several like you, and yet never have been commended."
               "I will not jest with you more, Stenno; but if you love me, go and see the divine
                  Fanny. She dances to-night in the Carlo Felici, and if every turn she makes does
                  not turn your brain—if every pirouette does not give your pisolitic heart a
                  whirl—if every wreath she makes with her beautiful arms does not wreath round your
                  soul whole strings of ecstacies, you are a perfect cannibal."
               "Then, you would have me see her, and go mad?"
               "Yes, Stenno, wild, stark mad; for that's the fashion. She carries all Europe with
                  her."
               "I pity her—what a load she must have."
               "She carries them with her legs, Stenno."
               "I think, if I carried as much, I should have to use my legs too. But you give her
                  to me only in detached pieces. First you talk of her arms, then of her legs; why
                  don't you give the whole at once?"
               
               "Well, Stenno, you have seen, in the Pescatori palace, Paola's painting of Venus
                  rising from the sea? In the rounded limb—in the graceful outline of form—in the
                  goddess-like mein—in æriel buoyancy of person—she has a rival in the divine Fanny.
                  If there can be poetry in thought—if there can be music in sound—if there can be
                  harmony in anything—there is harmony, music, and poetry in every motion of this
                  new inspiration from the terpsichorean heaven. Her form is voluptuous; her action
                  dazzling and winning. Her step startles you like that of the unexpected fawn; the
                  undulations of her body captivate and subdue; her—"
               "Enough, enough! I will rush to the Carlo Felici—and with the rest of Europe give
                  her my heart; for one among so many millions will not be a noticed burden."
               "That's right, Stenno, go—go and applaud her for her beauty, if for nothing else;
                  for of all the good taste displayed by the Almighty, none surpasses that of a
                  beautiful woman! And we should show bad taste not to appreciate it—we should pay a
                  poor compliment to our Creator were we unmindful of it."
               "For religion's sake, then, you would have me go."
               "Yes, Stenno; for the love you bear your mother—for the devotion you owe to the
                  Virgin, go and see her."
               "Well, amico, for religion's sake, for the
                  divine Fanny's sake, and for your sake, I'll go to Carlo Felici; but first, make
                  me a promise that if I go mad, you'll see that—I don't get married."
               "Ever a wag, Stenno; ever pretending to hate the women, while no one in their
                  heart adores them more. I pretend, profess to love them—I love them
                  for a thousand reasons, and had I time, would tell you all of them."
               "The old fisherwoman Marcan—how does she stand on your list, eh?"
               "Do not recall her to my mind, I pray you. She was all that could take a man by
                  storm, but turning into a tempest, she tossed my barque high and dry—I say
                     dry, for I shed no tears. But she is an exception to women. She
                  hates her sex, and does all she can to injure it; speaks ill of every one—confirms
                  by her acts what she talks. She is now one of the devil's principal housewives.
                  Let us forget her, and talk of angels."
               "Without feathers?"
               "Yes; even the divine Fanny, who is flesh and blood of the fairest tint—a sylph,
                  yet tangible;—at least, they say so."
               "Say so?"
               "Yes, Stenno. The first evening she arrived here, Mark Balbo tells me he carried
                  her secretly in a portantino to Prince
                  Carignano's palace, where she was admitted by the prince himself."
               "Aye, aye! I see now why the prince has been absent lately, amico. When the stir about Napoleon began, every one
                  inquired where the prince was; and they were told he had gone to Vienna to
                  negotiate. Pretty negotiation!"
               "Very pretty negotiation, Stenno. The prince met this divinity on the
                  Prado; fell in love with her; engaged her to come here, and preceded her only one
                  day. In Vienna she was the reigning belle. She held the Emperor's heart the Court,
                  the People, all within her glove."
               
               "You mean, within her jupe piquée."
               "In fact, perhaps; but in talking of our angels you must
                  not descend to vulgar particulars;—do not suppose they ever even eat; for what do
                  they become when you see them swallowing a yard of maccaroni, yawning, dressing,
                  and the like? Throw a veil around our Venus de Medici and she is at once doubly
                  attractive; for of a woman, the imagination never fails to render beautiful all
                  that is not seen, while that which is seen often disenchants. There was a time,
                  you know, when women were made to go naked, to deprive them of those arts,—that
                  coquetry in dress which, with its unreal witcheries, fills all the earth with wild
                  delight like a vast phosphoric ball; and, as the same sort of a ball would, sends
                  us on the wildest chases imaginable."
               "Would you then, have me believe that this same divinity, about whom you become
                  like Samson's foxes and set the world on fire, is one who only creeps into your
                  heart through imaginary charms?"
               "No, no, dear Stenno. We see enough of her to know her real."
               "And yet haunts you with—herself?"
               "Yes, for she is all that perfection which Nature could mould, and all that fancy
                  could picture."
               "Farewell, amico Phosphoro, I'll meet you at the
                  Carlo Felici."
               Few people, none, perhaps, had ever dazzled creation as had the danseuse of whom Stenno and Signor Phosphoro (as he
                  was nicknamed) were talking. She had appeared at the various European Courts, and
                  there was not a crowned head that did not covet her smiles, her society, her
                  influence. To unrivalled personal charms, she added great conversational powers,
                  while her quickness of perception and penetration made her an able diplomatist. By
                  intimacy with those in power, she became versed in all the various intrigues of
                  the day, and often rendered essential service to the diplomatists most devoted to
                  her—persons who received unbounded praise for their astuteness, but whose source
                  of knowledge was little imagined.
               This celebrated woman appeared in Paris when France was trembling with anarchy and
                  disorder, and when Napoleon stood on the church steps of St. Honore, and commanded
                  the battery against the people. She was then but a mere child; but giving great
                  promise of future renown, was much caressed. On one evening she might be seen at
                  the theatre of the Palais Royal, electrifying a crowded house by her fairy-like
                  step; on the next, at the Petite Trainon, seated beside a duchess, listening to
                  state affairs. A few days after she might be recognized in the streets of Berlin,
                  riding with a Prussian princess towards the palace. By rumor, it might be
                  inferred, when a few weeks had passed, that the King of Sardinia had been very
                  courteous to her; and then, that at Vienna, a fair incognita supposed (known) to be the famous danseuse, was with the emperor at a masked ball, from whence they
                  returned and were admitted at a private entrance to the imperial palace. On the
                  next evening, as a most elegant and beautiful young woman appeared at the soiré at Schonbrunn, it was hinted by some of the
                  courtiers—who were determined to play their cards accordingly—that this same Venus
                  was no less than the incognita of the previous
                  evening's entertainment.
               
               If the emperor was fascinated by her, the courtiers were no less so; and those who
                  were freely admitted to her presence were more envied than though they had
                  received the decoration of the Legion of Honor. Her drawing-room was soon the
                  fashion; for where have not the blandishments of refinement, of titled elegance,
                  of luxury and wealth, been all-sufficient to cover up every seeming defect in the
                  moral character? Before her door, every morning, stood the carriages of the
                  nobility; and in the evening, when she appeared on the stage, the house was
                  crowded with the elite of the Austrian capital.
                  After the play was over, there was usually an adjournment to the apartments of the
                  fair danseuse, where a grand entertainment,
                     àla fourchette, added new lustre to her ever
                  ascendant star.
               It is not important, nor would it be convenient to follow this gorgeous damsel
                  through all her career of splendid gaiety, conquests, triumphs, dissipation, and
                  diplomacy; but we have been obliged to introduce her—she being an agent in an
                  affair which has much to do with the denouement
                  of our heroine. An autobiography, however, of this magnificent woman would
                  astonish the world, and would be read with extraordinary avidity by the whole
                  human race. It would give us, perhaps, as great an insight into the characteur des homme, as could all the works together
                  that have ever been published. And though it might shock the heteroscian puritans
                  of the old school, who deemed it so sinful for any of God's independent creatures
                  to live for pleasure, though no sin to put torture and to death a whole host of
                  them for religion's sake; and though it might throw an occasional tinge into the
                  modest cheek of sixteen, and startle the prudish who had always skipped over, when
                  reading the Old Testament, the private character of the heroes of biblical
                  times,—I doubt not by its novelty it would afford infinite pleasure to the
                  intelligent of both sexes; and in its very truthfulness—being stranger than
                  fiction—tend to throw off the remaining shackles which the priestcraft and bigotry
                  of earlier times have left still clinging to our heels. But the false delicacy of
                  our age will not permit it; and thus, on the delta of our minds we heap up the mud
                  of ignorance, to be washed away at some future period.
            
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXI.
               IN January, 1816, a divorce was decreed between Charlotte, second daughter of
                  Maximilian Joseph, King of Bavaria, and the King of Wurtemburg.*
                   The Duke of Reichstadt was then only five years of age, and probably cared
                  little who his grandfather married; though, had he been aware of the effect such a
                  movement was to have on his destiny, he would have had some cause to ponder.
               
                  
                  *Frederic I., the noble, majestic Barbarossa, was the hero our late Frederick
                     I., of Wurtemburg, thought to emulate.
               
               Charlotte was just twenty-four years old when she renounced her marriage vow with
                  the King of Wurtemberg. She was gay and very beautiful, and just such a woman as
                  any king or prince would love to have stand beside him as representative of his
                  good taste and his power to conquer,—just such a woman, too, who could, if she
                  loved her "lord and master," make him her most perfect slave, even when seeming
                  herself to be the serving. Her manners, however, were too free, her address too
                  forward to please a husband or a lover; though they were just such as would draw
                  around any fair female a crowd of admirers.
               Most women, when much in society, and their hearts are not occupied, have a kind
                  of frankness in their demeanor meanor, which rather courts than
                  repels attention. They lose that diffidence by which the rustic often chains the
                     heart, while they, as belles, only dazzle the mind. They are those
                  who easily win husbands, but often fail to keep them.
               Charlotte captivated all who approached her, and the King of Wurtemburg was one of
                  her first subjects; but her heart was as untouched as that of the wild bird who
                  came and perched on the pinnacles of the altar while the marriage ceremony was
                  proceeding, but flew away as with the sigh of the maid, when the priest said
                  amen.
               Charlotte's husband was a man of talent, high spirit and military bearing, but was
                  a tyrant. He required unexceptional devotion in his subjects—in his wife even
                  more. Had she really loved him, she would have willingly submitted to the
                  restraints imposed upon her; but, as it was, she flew to the gay courtiers for
                  relief, and embittered the days of her lord. Her gallantries continued till a
                  divorce ensued, when, in the same year, she married the Emperor of Austria.
               The imbecile, treacherous Francis took Charlotte for his fourth wife,—captivated
                  by her as her first husband was, and by the same method of attack. That she made
                  him a better consort than she did the King of Wurtemberg is problematical, but
                  that she was fully capable of assisting the former in his many intrigues, there is
                  no reason to doubt; and that she also counselled him into many follies, has been
                  often surmised.
               Charlotte had, at least, admired the daring of the King of Wurtemburg, but she
                  could hardly respect Francis till he had wiped off the disgrace of having his
                  sceptre four times taken from him by the great hero of France, and as many times gratuitously returned. If
                  she found any consolation in contingencies, it was in the fact that the wife of
                  the Emperor of France had been obliged to return to Austria for protection, and
                  that the son of Napoleon was in her hands.
               In the north of Italy, Napoleon had re-established the ancient Republic of
                  Liguira. A portion of that region, stretching from the Mediterranean towards the
                  frontiers of Austria, he had bequeathed to his child, the King of Rome. This
                  measure had a political bearing, and was well understood; and showed that same
                  foresight and sagacity which had characterised his whole life.
               Charlotte's first ambition, and that to which she incited the emperor, was to
                  retrieve the losses Austria had sustained—advance further than ever into
                  Italy—take Lombardy and Sardinia, and make the strong-hold, Genoa, the main key to
                  all.
               Austria has always been celebrated for the number and the infamy of her spies;
                  but, at this time, they were redoubled. There was not an Italian city that did not
                  teem with them, and not a court but what entertained some emissary, whose real
                  designs were not known. Years, however, passed away, and no provocation offered of
                  sufficient importance to make any new aggression on the part of Austria at all
                  justifiable; though her secret agents had orders to avail themselves of everything
                  on which could rest any plausible pretext for a demonstration. Charlotte finally
                  planned the following:
               Aware that the celebrated danseuse, the divine
                  Fanny, was an Austrian subject,—a person sufficiently beloved at home, and
                  sufficiently conspicuous to create a great sensation if any untoward event should
                  happen to her,—resolved solved to try an experiment, though on a trivial basis.
                  Through her agents, every effort possible was to be made to create disturbance at
                  the dancer's appearance at the Carlo Felici in Genoa, and finally have her carried
                  off by force. To do this, they spread themselves over the city, and talked with
                  all they met—inflaming them against the Austrians, and urging them to show this
                  so-called fair favorite, that they neither countenanced her nor the sovereign
                  mistress whom she served. One of these spies fell in with il Signor Phosphor, who,
                  understanding his schemes better than the Austrian imagined, set himself actively
                  to work to counteract the effects of the miscreant's labors.
               We have seen how well Phosphoro succeeded with Stenno,—and he was no less
                  successful with all whom he met; so, before the rising of the curtain, he was sure
                  that the bella ballerina's reception would be
                  flattering and agreeable. He knew, also, that an attempt would be made to carry
                  her off, and he had planned so as to frustrate that too.
               Prince Carignano's portantino was of a peculiar
                  color and his servants wore a livery of green. In a portantino of a peculiar color it was known the fair danseuse usually left the theatre to—return, perhaps,
                  home; so the desperados felt no uncertainty about their game, and laid wait
                  accordingly. Phosphoro, in the mean time, took care to inform the Princess de
                  Carignano through her servants, that her husband's plan that night, was to bring
                  home his inamorata; and that if she would disguise herself and hasten to the door
                  just before thedanseuse, the portantino would be in readiness.
               
               To play an amusing joke on her husband, the princess went to the Carlo Felici. The
                  house was crowded from top to bottom, and, when the curtain rose, a breathless
                  silence pervaded the audience; but when the angel Fanny leaped upon the boards,
                  the house trembled with applause, as though an earthquake was rolling under it.
                  Those who had planned her overthrow were much disappointed,—though, towards the
                  termination of "la Cachucha," they succeeded in greatly displeasing her. Their
                  last scheme, however, they were sure of,—and when the green and gold portantino had received its fair burden, they were
                  ready to direct it to the appointed place of rendezvous. The ride appeared to the
                  princess to be long, but she finally stepped out in a dark alley, and was
                  immediately pushed into a low dirty room, where were seated several beggars and
                  ruffianly fellows of the lowest class.
               The princess uttered a cry of astonishment and threw off her thick veil; then
                  remembering herself, and that fear and modesty would avail nothing with such men,
                  demanded, in an imperious tone, the cause of the insolence.
               "The princess! the princess!" exclaimed several at once,—for they all recognised
                  her,—and in an instant the room was clear. Unexpectedly relieved, she fled back,
                  to her portantino and ordered the men—whom she
                  found not to be her own servants—to her palace; and by the private entrance, to be
                  sure, determined to have some sport yet out of her rather disagreeable evening. On
                  arriving home, the door was opened by the prince in person, and she was most
                  affectionately escorted to his private apartments, where he was about to give her
                  a truly cordial embrace. "Between the cup and the lip," &c.,— but in this case
                  it was the veil,—the removing of which sent him from the room with the utmost
                  haste, followed by the wild hearty laugh of his own wife.
               When these acts were taking place, the divine Fanny was being escorted by most
                  faithful and true, but poor, untitled admirers, to her own mansion in the Strada
                  Nuova. There, much to her surprise, she was quietly landed. Her chagrin now
                  surpassed all she had experienced at the theatre; for she supposed that the
                  prince, having seen that she had many enemies, had intentionally, and, as a
                  slight, ordered his servants to take her to her own apartments. Seeing, however,
                  several of the common people following across the marble court, she stopped at the
                  foot of the stairs to ask the meaning,—wishing to know to whom she was indebted
                  for this great courtesy. At first all hesitated to respond, but finally, hat in
                  hand, Phosphoro proceeded to speak for the rest.
               "Bella Signora," said he, "for myself I claim nothing; but being poor, and not
                  able to reward these, our faithful and good citizens, for the service they have
                  done, I would ask you to extend to them your generosity."
               "But to what service do you refer, my boni
                     amici?"
               "Ah! I forgot. You are not aware, of course, that there, was a conspiracy to
                  convey you to some den of infamy, where you were to be made to pay dearly for your
                  liberty."
               "No! good friends," exclaimed she, in astonishment, "I can hardly think it; for
                  what have I done to merit the ill-will of any one—even that which has been shown
                  to me this evening, at Carlo Felici?"
               
               "Nothing," replied Phosphoro. "But your beauty,"—and he bowed very low—"may have
                  been one great inducement; your known generosity and wealth, another; and even
                     political causes may have instigated the whole."
               "Your name, good friend? And here is money for your companions; and here, for you,
                  a ring of value."
               "We are your humble servants, and if you wish such aid as poor contadini can offer, you can send to the Piazza de
                  Pescatori, and inquire for Phosphoro. Adio."
               More overwhelmed with astonishment than Prince Carignano was with mortification,
                  the danseuse, reaching her chamber, ordered her
                  servants to prepare everything for departure early on the following morning. She
                  then sat down, and wrote to the Prince, as follows:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MY DEAR PRINCE DE CARIGNANO:
                           
                           I had hoped that the affection you have so often expressed for me, and
                              which, for the last few months, you have spared no pains to convince
                              me of, would at least have saved me from insult and danger, if not
                              from deep mortification.
                           The affairs of last evening, revealed to me in part, by a good citizen
                              who called himself Phosphoro, enable me to see distinctly that you
                              never have loved, or that you no longer love me.
                           Farewell! To-morrow I return to Vienna, to renew some of the many
                              pleasant friendships from which you took me.
                           
                              FANNY."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Prince Carignano, fearing being rallied by his fair partner, on the trick she had
                  played him, remained from home during the whole of the following day, and
                  consequently did not receive the note of his gentle amica till it was too late to pursue her. Aggravating in the extreme
                  were these circumstances, and he spared no pains to find out the authors of the
                  conspiracy that had caused the loss of the only woman whom he had perhaps ever
                  really loved. The spies, however, were too astute for him, and all his efforts
                  proved unavailing.
               The hint given by Phosphoro to the danseuse,
                  that the affair through which she had passed had a political motive, dwelt
                  continually in her mind during her long journey to the Austrian capital; and as
                  Prince Carignano was a leader in Sardinian politics, she came to the conclusion,
                  much to the detriment of the prince's honor, that the whole was a preconcerted
                  affair, and had some reference to the Austrian government, which she could not yet
                  comprehend. Be what it might, it no less served to anger her against the Italians,
                  and plant the seeds of bitter hate against her former friend and adorer.
               On arriving at Vienna, Fanny related the circumstances to Charlotte, who at once
                  saw in her a ready and efficient tool to accomplish at least one project which had
                  become the darling of her soul—the obtaining of that region of country held by the
                  Duke de Reichstadt, which would open a free communication with the Gulf of Genoa,
                  and enable the Austrians, at any moment, to march their troops unmolested through
                  the heart of an enemy's country, and strike an effective blow for the conquest of
                  all the north of Italy.
               The empress communicated her plans to the fascinating danseuse, and had they not involved a youth of some
                  beauty, as well as rank, might have been less acceptable than they
                  really, were.
               "You will like him," said Charlotte, though, to tell you the truth, we would be
                  rid of him. If he partakes of the spirit of his father, we shall rue the day we
                  ever nourished him. We can, however, tame him; we can, and must, by the luxuries
                  of our court, so enervate him that he will be little better than a reed, bending
                  at our will."
               "And is his mind not stubborn, like his father's? And has he not, like him, too
                  much self-control to be thus wielded?" said the danseuse.
               
               "It is even as you question; therefore, the greater will be your task, the greater
                  the victory, and the greater the reward."
               "You say that I shall 'like him.' If so, how can you calculate that I shall labor
                  to undermine his noble intellect?"
               "He is now in the blush of youth, and may interest you as a subject for
                  experiment; but has not yet that substantial worth which, like a person far beyond
                  your age, you make a requisite in a permanent acquaintance; while you are
                  possessed of every qualification necessary to dazzle and enslave
                  him."
               "Your majesty is too complimentary; yet you are aware my highest ambition is to
                  serve you; and in this task which you have assigned me, I will endeavor to find a
                  pleasure as well as duty," responded the dansuese.
               
               "If I mistake not, my dear Fanny, you will find much more pleasure in it than you
                  are willing to admit;" and the empress patted her under her sweet, round chin, as
                  though she had been her own darling child. "We have already," continued Charlotte,
                  "inflamed his mind by stories of your beauty, and he is anxious to see you. But
                  his first sight of you must be in your Spanish bolero, on the stage, where you cannot fail to carry away his heart,
                  as you have all the rest of Europe. To-morrow night, if, it be your pleasure, you
                  will appear at our theatre, where we will take the young duke. We will watch him
                  narrowly—will talk with him of your charms, and ascertain his feelings, which,
                  when reported to you, will be your guide."
               "And is it your will, kind empress, that I remain here and devote myself to this
                  work?" asked the dansuese.
               
               "Yes, till it is accomplished," replied Charlotte, "The boon of your first favor
                  must be his Italian estates, which I have previously mentioned to you."
               "It is a great price, noble Empress."
               "Your native modesty, my dear child, induces you to say so; but believe me, if he
                  is the being we think him to be, and our words have any bearing on his youth, he
                  will give double the amount—aye! all that he possesses, even to the dream of his
                  father's empire, to possess you. Have courage, my divinity, for if you will recall
                  the past, you have no reason to fear the future. We learned something of your late
                  affair with the Italian prince, and how much our nobles prized you—what power you
                  had exercised over them when you preferred a foreigner to any of them."
               "Spare me, I pray you, generous Empress. I did not willingly wound them; but
                  having a preference for the warm spirit of the South, I felt at liberty to
                  choose," was Fanny's earnest response.
               
               "You were right, and we forgive it all if you but make this lion's cub what you
                  can, and what we wish him to be—nothing! To-morrow evening let us see
                  some of your sweetest smiles directed to a fair youth in our box. Adieu."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               THE mineral lands of Italy, as well as of Spain, belong to the Crown, independent
                  of any individual rights vested therein. That portion of territory held by the
                  Duke of Reichstadt—the valley along the Apennines, opening on the Gulf of Genoa,
                  and threaded by the stream of the Besagno—contained great metallic wealth
                  unbeknown to him or any of the previous proprietors; though the duke's father, who
                  had travelled over almost every inch of the innumerable kingdoms he had conquered,
                  and had perhaps seen indications of the valley's treasures, doubtless thought it a
                  vast deal more valuable as a strong-hold in an enemy's country, than as a source
                  of revenue.
               At a later date, had the King of Sardinia known what ores were imbedded in the
                     Val de Mazzara, he would have demanded a
                  title to it as the property of the Crown: now the poor shepherd Bolaro occupied it
                  with his sheep. The right of possession Bolara had, was, as we have seen, through
                  his brother, by purchase from an Italian prince, who knew nothing of(or if he did,
                  concealed his knowledge from the purchaser), the diposition there had been made of
                  the land by the conqueror of Italy. The prince had, however, doubtless received
                  something from the French emperor,
                  which the latter considered an equivalent—title, power, or money. Afterwards, in
                  giving the estate to his son, he thought it to be in keeping with his usual
                  sagacity, and that the act could not be condemned as having any political
                  significance, though had the donation been the Duchy of Parma or Modena, it would
                  not have been so important—its position alone considered.
               After the banishment of his father, the duke was to the world but as a private
                  individual; yet those who had quailed before the gigantic sire, had much fear that
                  his offspring would partake of his genius and indomitable will. The wily Charlotte
                  accordingly well determined that nothing should be left him by which he could
                  renew the successes of his hated parent.
               That a small strip of land should be of any great importance to the Emperor of
                  Austria, may seem questionable, but for much smaller pieces of territory a great
                  nation's wealth and blood have been poured out. A little spot on the coast of
                  Spain—ground or rock that might be encircled by a bull's hide—has cost England
                  millions of money, and a good many lives; though not quite so much pride, perhaps,
                  as she lost in trying to keep a patch of territory in North America.
               Had the mineral wealth of this mountain-pass been explored, it would have
                  presented a new feature to all parties. The original owner probably would not have
                  disposed of it. Falling to some persons, they would have employed miners upon it,
                  and its riches, might have served to replace an emperor's crown. If the
                     government had known its quality, they would have at once taken
                  possession of it, and used it for their own aggrandisement. As it was, it was most
                  happily turned to other purposes; though poor Bolaro little dreamed, while he
                  drove a-field his little harmless flocks which cropped the grass of the mountain
                  sides, that a rich brother had owned it, and had been murdered for it; that there
                  was there all the wealth he would have asked for, had he power to obtain all he
                  desired; that it had been reserved in the family of a great monarch for important
                  ends; or that at the moment he was quietly enjoying its superficial treasures, a
                  beautiful empress was longing for it, and causing the destruction of an innocent
                  youth to obtain it.
               How little, either in joy or sorrow, do we know of the ground we tread on! One may
                  walk cautiously, and yet step into the very snare he most desired to avoid, while
                  another, with a bold stride, may escape dangers studiously prepared for him. The
                  wisest never can so forelay as to avoid casualties; and if there was not some
                  reward in a future state, we should often be inclined to think that we were not
                  impartially dealt with. Though guileless as the little lambs she followed to the
                  pastures, Saffi Bolaro had had the termination of her life decided on—if such a
                  crime was necessary to another's safety. Her fortune, for certainty, was to be
                  wrested from her. The comfort, welfare, being, of poor Bolaro himself, who had
                  never, for an instant, contemplated harm to a fellow-creature, were to be set at
                  nought; and for the possession of the very lands he occupied, the lives of three
                  human beings were to be sacrificed. How little, either in joy or sorrow, do we
                  know of the ground we tread on!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               THE shafts of mines are those wells sunk into the earth, through
                  which the ore is drawn, down which the miners descend, and in which are placed the
                  pumps which free the deep workings from water. There are some shafts, which are
                  sunk only for ventilation, others, for the raising of ores. They are square, and
                  vary in size according with their design. At intervals of a few feet, huge, square
                  timbers, framed together in a peculiar manner practised only by miners, are put
                  against the walls of the shaft to prevent their caving in; usually, however,
                  before these are arranged, the shaft has heavy planks put all around its walls;
                  but if the timbers are put in first, then the planks are driven in behind them so,
                  that the whole finally presents a regular well, carefully secured on all
                  sides.
               The labor of securing these shafts is very arduous and dangerous, and the mining
                  carpenter, who has charge of the work, has very important duties to perform, and
                  should be a man of good judgment; for he must know the nature of the ground he is
                  to work against; how the strata lays; what and where the greatest pressure will
                  be. If this is neglected; if his timbers are not heavy enough, or are not well
                  dove-tailed together, the shaft may fall in, or run together,' and bury thousands
                  of workmen in the bowels of the earth.
               The shafts in mines, however, are not all that require the mine-carpenter's
                  attention. Many of the 'levels' (horizontal tunnels), are to be secured like the
                  shafts, with planks and timbers. The timbers in this case, are two upright posts,
                  inclining a little towards each other at the top, on which, and partly let into
                  them, is a cross-piece that keeps the upright ones apart and supports the planks
                  that are driven in overhead to keep the earth and rocks from falling. In many
                  places, where the level or tunnel is 'driven' (dug) through pretty solid rock, no
                  timbering is required, though then the strata, its thickness, dip, should be
                  known.
               The levels are, in all mines of great length, sometimes extending for miles,
                  hundreds of feet below the surface of the ground, and even running out under the
                  sea. If on a vein of ore, these tunnels often run directly over each other, like
                  long narrow halls in houses. One end of these levels generally terminates in the
                  lode, where the work of digging it down is still progressing,—thus extending the
                  tunnel in that direction while the other end opens into the shaft.
               The ore, when broken down and assorted, is thrown into low narrow wheel-barrows
                  and wheeled along these levels to the shaft in which the apparatus is for hoisting
                  it to the surface. When the bucket which takes up the ore, comes down the shaft, a
                  man stands at the mouth of his level and hauls it in, fills it, and lets it go up
                  by the same machinery that lowered it down. Where there is no ore waiting at the
                  mouth of one level, the iron bucket is lowered to one where there is some, where
                  it is hauled in and filled and sent up as before described.
               
               The main shaft, being deeper than any of the others, is intended, to receive the
                  water from all the different levels which descend towards it. In this is placed
                  the huge iron pipes of the pump, worked by the steam-engine on the surface, which
                  also hoists and lowers the buckets. Miners descend in the buckets to their
                  different levels, or they go down the ladders fixed on the sides of the
                  shaft—having platforms or landings at each tunnel.
               The work under ground, like that on the surface, is of various kinds. There are
                  men who pick down the ores with picks and wedges—about the shape of which the
                  miners are very particular. Others break up and assort the ores, others fill the
                  barrows, others wheel them out and fill the buckets, while timbering progresses as
                  fast as new tunnels require securing.
               Trembling and growing paler and paler, poor little Tzella was lowered down, down,
                  down, till the gloom, strange, figures, flickering lights along the different
                  levels, the vast damp depth, overcame her, and she sank into the bucket
                  insensible. When reaching the bottom of the shaft, what was the astonishment of
                  the miner who hauled the iron kibble into his level, to find it occupied by what
                  seemed to be a dead child. His first impulse was to send it up again to the
                  surface, but then, thinking what the circumstances probably were, took the little
                  sufferer in his arms, and gathering some water which ran in a large stream beneath
                  the plank at his feet, threw it into her face, and soon revived her. Tzella gazed
                  on her new—and she now thought unearthly—acquaintance, and by a human voice only,
                  was saved from fearful delirium.
               "What in heaven's name," said the miner, in a mild tone, "could have sent such a
                  butterfly as you from the green meadows—such a ray of light, into these chambers
                  of darkness?"
               "Be kind to me, good sir, and I will work hard," said little Tzella, recollecting
                  herself, and looking pleadingly into the speaker's face.
               "Work! you little rose-leaf! How can you work, and what can
                     you do in these damp vaults? My little Alice, had she
                  lived, would have been of your size now; and what could she, poor thing, have
                  done, had they sent her into the cold earth, mining?"
               "I can work, good sir,—I will work very hard if you will
                  not whip me, sir."
               "Whip you! nobody, while I'm in the mines, shall whip you;" and the big tears
                  stood in the rough miner's eyes.
               "Then I will love you as I would a father, if I had one, and I will pick ores for
                  you—for I can soon learn."
               "Wy, you talk like a miner!" and the miner sat down on the edge of his barrow, and
                  still holding her in his arms, looked at her with a kind of superstitious
                  reverence; beginning to imagine that the little thing was unearthly—perhaps the
                  spirit of his own lost daughter.
               "I am from Cornwall, good Mr. Miner, and have heard about little girls like me
                  picking ores, and earning their living."
               "From Cornwall! then you shall stay here with me and my old woman, for we, too,
                  are from Cornwall, and worked for a time in the Red Ruth mines. But circumstances
                  of a peculiar nature sent us adrift in the world; and to escape unjust persecution, prison and death perhaps, we
                  came here to spend the remainder of our lives under ground."
               "They were cruel to you, for I know you are a good man; for you speak kindly to me
                  when you might whip me very hard," said Tzella.
               "It is not much of a hardship after all," responded the miner, thoughtfully; "for
                  wherever we are we soon form local attachments. Here we become interested in the
                  very stones; in the dropping water; in our working companions; in the bats that
                  often come to our gloomy abode; in our very wheel-barrows. This is now my city. We
                  have here long and narrow, and short and broad streets, and all are named; and I
                  have many friends and acquaintances who live and work in the different streets, to
                  which, by and by, you will learn the way."
               "But oh! do not send me away from you, good miner; for I will be so
                  good, and work very hard for you. Do not send me away;" and little
                  Tzella threw her arms around the miner's brawny neck, which his coarse woollen
                  frock left uncovered, and there wept sadly; "for," she continued, "I shall be lost
                  in these dark paths, and who will hunt for Tzella?"
               "It is even as I told you, my little one; you have already formed an attachment
                  for the rude, dirty miner; and were you to be taken from me now, even after
                  knowing me ten minutes, you would cry."
               "I should cry, for I think you will be kind to me, and not whip me,"
                  replied little Tzella.
               "But come, this is not the way we spend our time here," and he put little Tzella
                  into his wheel-barrow; "I will take you to where we work, and where you can begin
                  to pick ores. Your little hands will get toughened in time, and then you will be
                  good for something, I don't doubt. But tell me how you came here, and why you came
                  here."
               "I came in a large ship," replied Tzella, "and I cried a great deal;—at first I
                  cried because I was all alone, and had no mother; and then I cried because the
                  good mate whom I loved, and who played with me and talked to me all the voyage,
                  was dead, and they threw him into the water."
               "And was it not right?" asked the miner, who spoke in order to relieve her,—for
                  her little heart seemed to have got into her throat to choke her.
               "It may have been right, good sir; but I wished all the time, though I did not
                  dare to tell the captain, who was always cross to me, that I could bring him here
                  and have him put in some nice sunny place, where I could go every day to see his
                  grave, and carry him flowers, and plant some roses over him."
               "Who told you of such things?" asked the miner, with an increasing interest in his
                  new-found treasure.
               "My heart tells me always that, if I love anything, it must have a
                  love for birds and flowers. My mother, they tell me, is dead, but I never see a
                  pretty bird hopping and chirping about me, but I think my mother sent it to me;
                  and I never think of my mother's grave, but I long to cover it with the sweetest
                  and prettiest of garlands."
               "Ah!" said the miner, "I have no education, still I can see that God has made some
                  people so good that they seem like Beauty; and that beauty and goodness, like kind
                  brothers and sisters, charmed with each other's loveliness, often go hand in hand
                  together. It may be that the Creator
                  has established an invisible communion between them, felt only by those who are
                  good and beautiful—partaken of by things, by plants, and birds, as well as by
                  human beings," and, lost in a deep reverie, he wheeled on his gentle load, whom he
                  no more heeded till arrived at the end of the level.
               "A pretty lout you are!" screamed out a voice that belonged to a bent and ragged
                  form that once was a woman's. But O, Woman! once stepping from the sphere of
                  mildness, gentleness, trustfulness, for which thou art so beautifully designed by
                  Nature, thou dost descend to an equality with man, indeed—but man in
                  an estate that no longer can claim love, respect, protection! "You have been gone
                  an hour, and the two or three loads we have picked over are in our way, and
                  backing up the water into our very beds," continued the hag.
               "Don't be angry, my old woman," said the miner, "for I've brought you a delicate
                  little girl, just such as our Alice would have been; and I think you will like her
                  to take poor Ally's place."
               "You are a fool!" growled the woman, "to suppose that any little brat could take
                  our child's place. If the little imp can work hard, and help us along with our
                  'set' in the level, she's as welcome as any body,—but if she can't she shan't have
                  a morsel of my hard-earned bread, nor a place in our room which we have dug with
                  our own strong fists."
               "I can work, good woman," said little Tzella, stepping out of the
                  barrow and going and kneeling to the dirty woman; "and I will work hard for you if
                  you will let me stay here with this kind man."
               "Some bastard young one, I suppose," said the addressed, raising her foot to kick
                  over the frail, trembling little thing,—"some one sent here to be got rid of, and
                  in hopes it would die—yet expecting that we should have pity on it.
                  Up and to work, and let's see if your dainty hands can pick the rough copper
                  stones from the deads—the rubbish."
               Tzella started to her feet and ran to the man, and clinging to his arm pleaded
                  with him to show her a little at first what was good ore and what bad, and then
                  she would always remember.
               "Do not be alarmed at the old woman," said the miner, "she sha'n't hurt you—if she
                  does, I'll strangle her. I'll show you all about the ores, and in one week you can
                  do as much as she can."
               "I thank you, good miner," said little Tzella; "I will be so good, I will love you
                  so much, and if you are sick I will take such good care of you."
               "Well, we won't talk of that now, but to our work. Begin by picking up the
                  stones—put the candle so you can see well—here, stick some clay on the bottom of
                  it, and then stick it against the wall; show me each piece at first, and if good,
                  put it into the barrow—if bad, chuck it back among the deads."
               Tzella took a seat on a pile of rubbish, as near to the man and as far from the
                  woman as she conveniently could, and began to work very cheerfully. After a few
                  moments' picking she recognised a great difference in the mineral that lay about
                  her. The yellow sulphurates she saw were shiny, and that the green carbonates were
                  handsome. The delicate structure of her hands enabled her instantly to
                     understand by weight
                  what stone contained ore and what not; and the black and grey oxides, which were
                  in abundance, she found very heavy. No pupil was ever more tractable, and, to the
                  wonder of the old miner, and the disappointment of the woman, she showed not only
                  her willingness to work, but the ability to make herself of great service.
               Hours passed away; the barrow had been several times filled, wheeled away and
                  returned, when little Tzella was observed to handle the ores more carefully, while
                  big tears trembled on her cheeks and then fell upon the unpitying earth.
               "Tired already, are you?" said the woman. "That dilly dally you call work, eh?"
                  and she seized a sharp "gad" and threw it at the back of the child. Tzella uttered
                  a faint cry, bent forward with an effort to work harder, but fell fainting among
                  the stones at the feet of the miner.
               "Cursed hag!" exclaimed the man, as he seized the child in his arms; "you brought
                  me here by your treachery, and now you would send me to the gallows for murder,
                  would you? This innocent has been sent here for some good, and if we have a mind
                  to, can make her of profit and pleasure to us; but I fear your fiendish temper
                  will destroy all."
               "Taunt away, old man!" replied the woman. "You'll get your deserts in time, I've
                  no doubt,—I don't want to hurry you; but be sure as my name's Mags, the little
                  b——h shall work while she's in my reach."
               "Harm her again if you dare, and I'll choke you, old woman, if I hang by a mahagua
                  rope on the tallest palma on the island!" said the husband, with fierce voice and
                  gesture ture; and not waiting to hear any reply, bore the little sufferer away to
                  his chamber.
               The apartment in which Tzella was placed might have been considered a comfortable
                  one, had it been on the surface of the ground instead of a thousand feet under it.
                  It was at the juncture of three old tunnels which had been worked out and
                  abandoned, and were now, for a few feet within, filled up—forming, as it were,
                  three rooms opening from a common centre. The stone overhead was so solid that no
                  water leaked through it; besides, every portion was well timbered and boarded up,
                  and the ground floored. Millions of English subjects would be happy to have such
                  apartments, if, in them, they could be free of church tithes and the numerous
                  other oppressive taxes which grind them to the dust or make exiles of them. Thus
                  thought this French miner when he fitted up the different little rooms—one for a
                  bed, one as an eating room, and one for provisions.
               Tzella was placed on the bed, and her clothes removed from her back, which the
                  miner bathed with aguadiente. The cut made by the "gad" was not deep, but to one
                  so delicate it was dangerous. The smarting from the strong rum applied to it,
                  brought her again to consciousness, but she was in such a state of fear that she
                  hardly dared speak.
               "Dear father," at last said Tzella, "I am sorry I make you so much trouble, but I
                  will pay you for it by working harder when I get well;" and she stretched out her
                  little hands towards him while the blood trickled from her fingers' ends.
               
               "Mercy! mercy! my child!" exclaimed the miner, "why did you work so long? The
                  rough stones wore the skin off of your fingers, and yet you worked on and said
                  nothing."
               "I did not dare to," said Tzella, "for I saw that woman looking at me, and I
                  picked the ores with my bleeding fingers a long time before I grew faint. I
                  thought she would whip me if I did not work hard; and when she threw the wedge at
                  me I could not work fast because the skin was all off my hands, just as you see
                  them now."
               "Good little girl," said the man, moved with pity, "you shall not work again so
                  hard till your hands get used to it, which they must do by degrees. In the mean
                  time I will give you some bagging which you can make mittens of. Rest here
                  quietly, for a day or two, and I will see that you have enough to eat and drink,
                  and are not more abused."
               Tzella thanked the miner, with tears in her eyes, and with these words on her
                  lips, "God is good!" she fell asleep.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               WHEN the miner's wife came, at night, to her room, she was about to proceed to the
                  bed, and throw the sleeping child upon the floor; but the strong arm of her
                  husband was stretched across the passage, and she was ordered back. Muttering as
                  many curses as she could command, she retreated to another corner, and seating
                  herself upon a chest of clothes, seemed only waiting an opportunity to spring upon
                  her prey.
               "Now, old woman," said the miner," like it or dislike it, as you will, I'm going
                  to adopt this child as my own, at least so long as it will remain here with us.
                  She is affectionate and well-meaning, and will do much towards supplying the place
                  of our lost Alice. Your dislike of her and your harshness must stop now. You must
                  prepare another and a good bed for her, and she must and shall be treated as our
                  own child."
               The "old woman," as the miner called his wife, said nothing, but taking a pipe
                  from off one of the timbers, filled it, and began smoking.
               "There is a meaning in your silence," continued the husband, "which I understand;
                  but beware, and treat well this gentle stranger, or you shall rue it."
               The old fury shrugged her shoulders, and when she had finished her pipe, wrapped
                  an old cloak about her rags and the
                  dirty frame they hardly sufficed to cover, threw herself upon the floor and
                  reposed like a hardy pirate.
               Two days after this, little Tzella, not yet quite recovered, and still remaining
                  in bed, at the request of the good miner, who had gone in search of the mining
                  captain, to secure the end of the level where he had dug down the ore—was seized
                  by the hair and dragged from the bed, from the chamber, and along the tunnel, till
                  she reached the pile of ore that had been broken down and awaited picking. She
                  uttered no cry, for she knew whose hands she was in, and that obedience was her
                  only safety.
               "Now, to work, you little vagabond," said the woman, as she threw her on to the
                  stones; "and if you are idle another hour, while in the mines, I'll whip you
                  within an inch of your life."
               Tzella sprang to her work, and working and trembling, listened to the cruel words
                  of a fiend who called herself a woman.
               "I've seen your tricks," continued she, "to get rid of your tasks; and you expect
                  that we shall feed you and do your work, too. Now hark ye, Miss Snipe's-spawn: If
                  you ever utter to my old man a word about my treatment of you, I'll break every
                  bone in your body, and it wouldn't take much to do that; and if you shirk your
                  share of the pickings I'll cut your ears off in pieces," and she gave her a harsh
                  slap on the back, as a foretaste of the gentleness she was to expect if she
                  disobeyed.
               "Mother, dear mother," prayed Tzella to herself, "will you not look on your little
                  child, and protect her?" and a voice whispered in her heart, "Suffer patiently,
                  for God is good." She then turned to the woman, and lifting up her naked arms,
                  bleeding from the gashes just received from the sharp stones on which she had been
                  so inhumanly thrown, pleaded with her to strike her no more. "Oh, dear woman," she
                  said, "do not strike me, I beg, and I will work for you every moment
                  of my life, and I will not tell anything against you."
               "You had better not, if you know what's good for yourself," said the woman, who,
                  at the same time, stretched out her boney fingers and, pinched the little
                  innocent's alabaster neck till it turned black; while the uncomplaining sufferer
                  poured out burning tears over her loneliness and misery.
               When the good miner was present the wife remained silent, as he
                  generally talked with the little Stella Bianca.
                  His attachment to the child, too, grew stronger, day by day, and she became, as
                  far as possible, his constant companion—filled with joy at his coming and sorrow
                  at his going. He was not aware, however, of all the cause of these emotions; had
                  he been, he would doubtless have put his former threat in force, and strangled the
                  miserable wretch whom he owned as wife. Had he done so, would he have been guilty
                  of murder? Perhaps he would, if so good an act could be called a
                  capital offence.
               Tzella's fondness increased with the miner's kindness, and as she had no
                  acquaintances on the surface of the ground—as it took a long time to ascend,—as
                  the difficulty of reaching the top of the shaft was very great—she soon became
                  weaned from any other world than the one she lived in; and in almost
                  unquestionable contentment remained for months and years in her strange abode. To
                  be sure, she was not wholly free from suffering; but the kind words and guardianship of her adopted
                  father more than overbalanced the effect of the cruel treatment she sustained at
                  the hands of the proletarian, brutal wife.
               It must be understood that Tzella's love of her protector was even greater than
                  she would have naturally entertained for a legitimate father; for he had appeared
                  to her as a good angel, when waking she expected to find herself amid fierce
                  demons. He had voluntarily extended to her his sympathy when all the rest of the
                  world had cast her off; for she was of that age which almost momentarily appeals,
                  as by instinct, to a mother; an age when the mind, capable of a vigorous
                  expansion, requires a mother's patience and intelligent regard to supply its
                  multifarious demands; an age when a mother's ear is so essential to
                  happiness—an ear that welcomes every tale, stories of wondrous fabric, images of
                  infinite omniformities, the recital of ages of grief crowded into a laughing tear,
                  and the voice of the young heart's wrongs it impulsively utters. We have seen how
                  her adopted father received her, listened to her, cared for her, protected her,
                  and we can readily see why he became dear to her.
               In the inception of this acquaintance, there were several causes why the miner
                  should be attached to little Tzella. He had lost an only child, who, had she
                  lived, would have been nearly of the age and size of the little stranger. Then he
                  had no companion in his solitude except his wife, who was anything but attractive.
                  Acquaintances he might have formed above ground, and with some good people from
                  his own land, but he had a reason for keeping himself from their sight, and his
                  real name unknown. Toward Tzella, however, he found it impossible to use any
                  dissimulation. She was the personification of innocence, and he felt it would be a
                  great relief to him if he could unburden his heart even to her childish mind. But
                  where could he begin so as to end safely? He did not know the exact crime with
                  which he was charged, but he knew that his companions had suffered death as the
                  penalty of the law. He had been drawn into the meshes of a secret society through
                  the influence of his wife, and he had no doubt that each member, except himself,
                  had, individually, been guilty of heinous crimes; so that, his name being
                  registered with theirs, there was no safety for him but in flight—no safety, even
                  if innocent; for his wife held over him the rod of her knowledge of his pledge to
                  this band of assassins, whose Chief, and inspiration, was her own particular
                  friend. He delayed his confessions, for he feared he could not make the young
                  creature, who had so providentially been sent to him to change the character of
                  his dark existence, comprehend the cause of his flight from his native shores; and
                  if he should fail in his effort, he would alienate her from him—would stamp on her
                  heart a belief that he was a criminal.
               The dress with which Tzella descended into the mines was soon worn out, and
                  replaced by a frock made of bagging—an article much used in transporting mineral
                  to the harbor. The delicacy of her hands was also partially saved by the same
                  stuff, while thick, heavy shoes, were occasionally given to her to protect her
                  feet from the sharp stones. On her head she wore a piece of bagging several times
                  folded, and left to fall over the shoulders, for the double purpose of protecting
                  her hair from the dirt, and sheltering her from the water, which dripped down in
                  many places from the roof. In this costume, with face, hands, and arms soiled by the black ores, and the
                  smoke of candles always burning in all the levels, it is not to be supposed that
                  she was very attractive. But she had no motive for desiring a more gay or
                  fashionable toilette, and never thought of a
                  life in which dress could constitute a charm. If, however, she had had a mirror,
                  or if there had been some glassy water in which she could have seen herself,
                  perhaps, like Narcissus, she would have pined into a more delicate flower, if
                  possible, than she really was.
               Tzella became the calender of her adopted father. She remembered the days, weeks,
                  months, years, every event that occurred in the mines;—the number of loads wheeled
                  out, and the number of feet dug each twenty-four hours. But the more she was
                  prized by the husband, the more she was hated by the wife, who allowed no day to
                  pass, when the good man was absent, in which she did not give the unoffending girl
                  the most cruel evidence of her dislike. Sometimes she would unmercifully beat her;
                  then she would strike her with the sharp edge of a gad or wedge, and sometimes
                  seize her by the hair, and drag her from her seat, under pretence of wishing to
                  occupy it herself.
               One day, the good miner fell ill, and could not go out into his tunnel to work.
                  Then the old woman had a glorious opportunity to gratify her fiendish temper.
               "Where is Tzella?" asked the husband, when the wife came home to dinner.
               "She is at work; for she says she does not want any such dinner as we give
                  her."
               "Tell that to my wheel-barrow," said the husband, "but not to me. Be sure you take
                  her some victuals when you go back, and tell her I sent it. Why, in God's name, do
                  you wish harm to the child? Has she not now been three years in these caverns
                  without once seeing the light of day?"
               "Neither have we; and is the minx any better than we are?" replied the woman.
               "Has she not," continued the husband, as though uninterrupted, "been an unbounded
                  source of profit and pleasure to us?"
               "She may have been a pleasure to you, you old scorpion," said the hag, with biting
                  emphasis; "but to me she is nothing but a viper."
               "And has she not been gentle and uncomplaining? If she partakes of the nature of a
                  viper, she must have imbibed it all from you, old woman!" retorted the husband,
                  who could, with the greatest satisfaction, have thrown her from the surface into
                  the deepest shaft in the mine.
               "Be cautious, old fool, or I'll peach, and have your neck strung yet," replied the
                  woman.
               "Out with you!" exclaimed the sick man, as he reached to get a shovel to throw at
                  her.
               The woman suddenly disappeared; and when tea-time came, she again returned
                  alone.
               "Wretch!" gasped the man, springing from his bed as the woman entered, "where is
                  my child?" and a cold sweat stood upon his forehead, for he was convinced that
                  Tzella no longer lived.
               "Go and look for her, if you want her," calmly muttered the wife.
               The good miner, not stopping for a light, rushed out of his house, and hurried
                  along the dark gallery. Occasionally he
                  paused to listen; but heard nothing till near the end of the workings, when a
                  faint groan came to his ear, and he faltered, feeling as though he could move his
                  feet no further, though his eager will went on, and his hands were stretched out
                  to succor the distressed. He was, however, nerved anew, when he heard the same and
                  well-known voice, saying, "Father, father, come, dear father, come take me away,
                  dear father;" and with another bound he stood beside the child, and bent down to
                  raise her—but he grasped only the stones. "Where is my child?" groaned he, in wild
                  despair.
               "Here," answered the same voice, as if smothered beneath his feet.
               Again the distracted man groped about with his hands. He encountered a barrow,
                  which he removed, and, as the voice now seemed to come from directly under where
                  it was placed, he dug fiercely into the loose stones, and in a second had the joy
                  of feeling the warm body of his child just beneath the surface. Dragging her from
                  the rubbish, and without uttering a word, he retraced with frightful haste his
                  uncertain way. In ordinary times he would have reached his home without a
                  mis-step, but now he struck first on one side and then on the other, and finally
                  his head a fearful blow against a cross-timber, which felled him to the ground;
                  but he did not lose his consciousness, and grasping the child closer to his bosom,
                  with one hand saved her from even touching the earth, while his other hand,
                  extended to break his fall, was sprained and badly cut. An instant more sufficed
                  for his recovery, and on he rushed again with his fair burden, which seemed to
                  grow heavier as if dying; and when he entered his chamber he was paler than the
                  young creature he had just rescued.
               "Ah!" exclaimed the old woman, with a start, "the earth fell on her from overhead,
                  and as she was dead I left her there,"—and her lips were pale, and her guilty
                  conscience shook her like a leaf.
               The miner heard her, but made no reply; and laying the child on the bed, began
                  with careful hands to wash her bleeding face, give her some aqua vitæ to restore her, and encourage her by kind
                  and affectionate words. He found a bad cut on the temple, evidently made by a
                     gad, which had probably stunned her, and caused the old woman to
                  bury her for dead.
               The child was not dangerously injured, and in a little while spoke to her adopted
                  father with the same sweet cheerful tone that had so often gladdened his dreary
                  life; and, as soon as he felt sure that she was safe, he turned to the woman, who
                  had been the chersihed partner of his sinless youth, and cursed her from the
                  bottom of his soul.
               "Curse on!" cried the hag, while her long sinewy fingers were closing as if she
                  knew she had him by the throat; "How could I hinder the earth from falling on her?
                  It was all I could do to escape myself."
               "Did the barrow fall, too, from the roof? For I found it on top of the very stones
                  you had piled over her."
               "You lie!" screamed the now infuriated tigress, and she sprang at him and grasped
                  him by the hair, and strove to clutch out his eyes.
               The miner's brawny arm soon relieved him. He then grappled the woman with intent
                  to strangle her, but there proceeded
                  from the bed a faint cry for mercy. "Hear that?" said the man; "the one you would
                  have killed now saves you. I will not kill you, because she asks for
                  mercy; but I will put you beyond further harm." He then took from a beam a long
                  strip of mahagua bark and fastened her hands behind her, and thrusting her into
                  one of the closed tunnels, built up a wall so high that she could but just peer
                  over its top.
               "Now, dear child," said the miner to Tzella, "tell me the reason of her beating
                  you, and burying you up."
               "Dear father, I dare not tell you, for she has threatened many times to kill me if
                  I spoke a word to you about her abuse of me."
               "Fear nothing now," replied the miner, "for I swear she shall never leave that
                  place alive," pointing to the hole where she was walled in.
               "Oh, then," sobbed the child, "I have a million blows to tell you of, a million
                  kicks and pinches, and starvation always when you were not here to give me
                  food."
               "Oh, poor, poor child!" said the miner, and his broad shoulders rose with his
                  heaving breast.
               "It was only because I pleaded for some bread to-day, that she beat me, and at
                  last struck me with one of the sharp wedges here on my head. I did not know
                  anything more till I woke up and found I could not move; but, as my head was on
                  the ground, I heard your step a great way off, and I knew it was you, good father,
                  and then I called as loud as I could for you to come; and when I felt your kind
                  hands on me I thought a good angel had brought to me the sweet spirit of my own
                  dead mother; and I was as happy as if my heart had gone up to heaven."
               "You are a good girl, and heaven will always protect you," said the miner, as he
                  went away to prepare some nourishment for his failing child, and wipe away the
                  tears which he thought revealed too much weakness.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXV.
               A PERSON who has never tried an isolated, a Robinson Crusoe-life, can have no
                  conception of the peculiar happiness—the strange but tranquil joy pertaining to
                  it. The life which Tzella and the good miner led was one of enviable content. If
                  you say their happiness was negative, we should not deny it, but it was,
                  nevertheless, happiness. The man had entirely weaned himself from the world—had
                  become attached to his home; while his companion, by her innocence and affection,
                  filled every void in his heart. Tzella, knowing nothing of pride, envy, jealousy,
                  nor even of love—save that which was bounded by her protector—went cheerfully to
                  her daily labor, and as cheerfully returned and prepared the meals, and retired to
                  her little cell at night; and all without one vain thought to disturb her calm and
                  peaceful slumbers.
               At the end of each month the miner received an account of the amount credited to
                  him on the books of the company, and the charges made for provisions and clothing
                  sent down to him; at which time the inspector went through all the workings, and
                  saw that everything was properly attended to. This, however, was a useless
                  ceremony; for the mining captains never neglected such duties—duties that devolved
                  upon one or the other of them every moment, night and day.
               For nearly four years Tzella suffered all but death from the brutal treatment
                  received at the hands of the wife of her adopted father. She grew thinner and
                  weaker till her slender frame seemed hardly capable of longer retaining the fair
                  spirit that had animated it; but during the two subsequent years she grew tall,
                  regained her gaiety of manner, and elasticity of form; and, could she have been
                  seen well dressed, would have been pronounced the very loveliest of her sex.
               One day, along many of the levels, it was observed that small pieces of dirt and
                  stone occasionally fell from overhead. Tzella's quick eye discovered it where she
                  was at work, and in remarking on the subject, found that it had not escaped the
                  old miner's notice, and that he regarded it with much alarm. What was to be done?
                  The old man passed along the tunnel several times to examine the timbering and
                  ascertain if it was firm and secure, for he saw in the falling bits of earth a
                  serious indication that there was to be a "run" in the mine, which might in an
                  instant bury hundreds of human beings at an inextricable depth. The same signs
                  were continuous, too, in all the levels over the one we have mentioned, and the
                  most cautious of the miners had fled to the surface. Through the night the warning
                  ceased not, and when the heavy bell sounded for the relief gang of the morning,
                  the mountain began to tremble, and the deepest thunder went muttering through the
                  bowels of the earth. Then followed a fearful crash, and as the sound went rolling
                  away as if along the vast arches of the world's structure, it seemed to bear on
                  its bosom the last groans of a million of mangled, dying mortals. Oh! what a
                  fearful moment for those on the surface who had friends below, and for those below who knew not if
                  they had time to escape! From every part of the vast "workings" the miners rushed
                  to the main shaft, and a thousand were at one time ascending the ladders to reach
                  the surface and escape death; but, owing to the great depth from which many
                  commenced their ascent, it was a long and fearful hour before all could make their
                  egress, and during that time a continuous stream of pale and trembling miners
                  issued from the mouth of the great well. No one spoke, but each looked into his
                  neighbor's face for an answer to the fearful work that was being done beneath
                  their feet. "Who is dead—who has escaped?" was the expressive question which
                  silence asked of the multitude.
               Let us now descend again to the bowels of the earth, to see what havoc has
                  accrued. In the levels running parallel with Tzella and her friend's "set," twenty
                  negroes and their overseers, and six Cornish miners, having been closed in by the
                  earth, perished. When the accident occurred, Tzella and the good miner were seated
                  at the breakfast table; and even before they could rise, the level in which lay
                  their work, was filled, and they were cut off from all communication with the main
                  shaft. The roof over their heads, which they had always deemed an immoveable rock,
                  began at the same time to give way, and that side of it where the woman was
                  confined sunk in one mass upon her and crushed her to atoms. The husband did not
                  escape; a portion of the earth overtook him as he started to leap to the other
                  side of the vault, which was still firm, and he fell on his face—his feet held
                  fast by heavy stones. Tzella, pushed forward by the falling man into that old
                  level we have mentioned as closed up behind to form a bed-room, stood safe and
                  alone, unharmed, but stricken down with horror and dismay. She could no longer
                  move nor utter a cry. She thought her hour of death had come, and she stood
                  staring the king of terrors in the face, awaiting his blow.
               Moments passed away—they might have been hours—the world seemed pausing for
                  breath, and the bowels of the earth, which had been by insatiate man so ravaged,
                  so pierced for filthy lucre, had rebelled and become firm and solid again, and
                  sent to their long sleep those who had disturbed her quiet. Tzella regained
                  strength and courage, and her first impulse was to rush to her preserver, and
                  extricate him from his perilous position. But what could she do? Tons in weight
                  were resting upon his feet. Her only resort was, to help—but from whence? Not an
                  avenue was open, and death by starvation and suffocation seemed inevitable. But
                  Tzella, in the fulness of her heart, thought not of herself, and stooping down,
                  she raised the head of her good friend, and tried to comfort him.
               "Dear father," said she, "what can I do to relieve you from the horrid pains you
                  are now enduring? I cannot displace those huge rocks, and every avenue is
                  closed."
               "Dear child," replied the miner, "think not of me, but try and remove the stones
                  that block the passage to the old levels, and escape yourself."
               "Never while you live will I leave you, dear father!" exclaimed Tzella.
               "I shall soon die, and so must you, if you do not soon procure fresh air by
                  opening one of the old passages; and should I live, of what use can I be without
                  feet?"
               
               "You must live, dear, good sir, and I will be feet for you always."
               "Even now I am faint," continued the miner, "my pains and want of air will soon
                  finish me. Think of me as a kind, good friend to you, when I am gone. Should you
                  find means to escape—and I think God will save you—take the papers
                  you will find in the chest, at the head of my bed, and they will serve to remind
                  you of me."
               "Dear friend, have courage. Relief may come—try and live—I will get you food and
                  water," and she ran and got him some water to keep him from fainting.
               "Food and water will soon be gone, dear child; and if we had enough, no air could
                  reach us for the levels are closed."
               "God is good, dear, good friend!" replied Tzella, in deep humility and faith, as
                  she placed food and water within reach of her sinking, suffering protector. But
                  what availed her tender care? The good man could not eat, and, from excruciating
                  pain, often fainted away. Then the girl, fearing he was dead, went almost stark
                  mad, for there came upon her the full sense of her loneliness and destitution.
                  Bereft of all that had been to her, her world of thought and feeling, her soul
                  turned back upon itself, and was lost in a wild, dark sea of despair.
               Hours passed away; not a voice was heard, not the sound of a pick, nor clink of a
                  gad. Stillness was the sole companion of these lonely, wretched beings. Night, as
                  known by hours—for all was in reality night—came and passed; another day, more
                  slowly waned away—and another night, still more slowly and more agonizingly; for
                  hope was gone, and the air so far exhausted that respiration was painful. The good
                  man now made his last effort to live, and sank down on his face, and gave his
                  thoughts to his God, while Tzella placed herself beside him, and spoke to him
                  kindly and gently of heaven—of their meeting there her dear good mother and
                  father, who would love him for the kind care he had taken of their child. When she
                  ceased talking, all was still again as death.
               "They come! they come!" screamed Tzella, "they come to save us!" and the clink of
                  a hammer was heard ringing through one of the closed galleries. The good man heard
                  her voice, but he had resigned himself to his Maker, and his thoughts were no
                  longer of earth. Tzella tottered to the wall which had been built up at the end of
                  the bed-room, and hearing distinctly voices, and men at work on the heavy stones
                  of that old gallery which had for years been abandoned, and which led to a distant
                  shaft used only for ventilation; she again, in a frantic wildness, screamed, "They
                  come! they come! "then fell upon the floor, in reality, almost dead.
               One who has groped for the buried living, knows something of the thrill that
                  pervades the soul when he greets the first sign that those live whom he seeks.
                  Tzella's voice had reached the ears of the generous-hearted miners, who now
                  redoubled their efforts, and, with almost superhuman energy, tore down the thick
                  walls, and opened a passage for the air, and for themselves, into the chamber of
                  the dying.
               "A girl! a girl!" exclaimed the first one who entered, "and still warm! She has
                  pulse, too! Take her to the air! send her up as quick as possible, and she will
                  yet live!" "A man!" exclaimed another, "but dead! Let us, however, take off the stones from his feet, and
                  carry him up; perhaps we can restore him!"
               They raised the good miner, after great labor in removing the rubbish which held
                  him fast, and finding that he still breathed, bore him at once to the shaft, and
                  sent him up by a large kibble lowered for the purpose. The miners then returned,
                  and finding all the rest of the workings entirely choked up, abandoned further
                  search.
               "Sorry job, that!" said one of the men. "Thousands of pounds sterling can't open
                  these levels again!"
               "Who cares for the money? The company is rich enough to lose ten times as much.
                  I'm thinking of our poor comrades in yonder levels, who hadn't time to get out,
                  and are now there, where they'll remain till doomsday, crushed to atoms. Poor
                  souls! Thank God our 'set' was nearer the surface, and that we took warning by the
                  little stones that kept cracking off all the whole day."
               "I say, Jack," said one of the men, "I wouldn't like to open that level where all
                  the niggers are smothered."
               "Perhaps not," responded the man Jack; "but if you were a nigger—and I don't know
                  that you are any better—I reckon you'd like to be dug out alive as well as any
                  body."
               "True, true; and to tell you truth, I'd rather be a nigger than an Irishman."
               "Yes; because you know the niggers in America are treated better than the Irish or
                  any other poor people in the mother country. But haul in the bucket, it's time for
                  us to go up now;" and the bucket was hauled in—for they had reached the shaft—and
                  in a few moments they were on the surface.
               "Hurrah!" shouted fifty voices, as the men emerged from the old well, into which
                  they had some hours before descended on their perilous enterprise, urged on by a
                  noble and generous spirit, that crowning virtue—humanity; and many a hardy fellow,
                  with tears in his eyes, came and shook hands with them, and blessed them. They
                  were fully repaid for their deed of charity, and doubly so, when they saw, (as the
                  crowd separated), sitting unsupported, the fair and lovely girl they had rescued,
                  and the man still alive, though dreadfully mangled, awaiting with fortitude and
                  resignation the surgeon to amputate his feet.
               As the women came to take Tzella to the house to wash and clothe her in a suitable
                  manner, the multitude dispersed, murmuring, and wondering at the strange beauty
                  which had so long been among them unknown. But Tzella's charms had but half been
                  revealed to them; for she had not yet opened upon them her large blue eyes; for
                  the bright light of day to which for years they had not been exposed, caused them
                  excessive pain whenever she attempted their use. Immediately the surgeon arrived,
                  and as Tzella heard the order to remove her friend to the hospital, she started
                  up, and begged to be allowed to follow him, and attend him there. The earnestness
                  of her manner obtained an assent to her wishes, and in a few moments she was
                  seated at the head of the patient's bed—in her turn comforting and encouraging
                  him, while he was submitting to the most painful of operations.
               After a few weeks, by Tzella's watchful care, the old miner was able to sit up,
                  and she who had now become his guardian angel, his most assiduous, untiring
                  servant, astonished, by her extreme grace and beauty, all who saw her. The fame of her loveliness, as well as
                  devotion to him who was thought to be her father, spread far and wide; so much so,
                  that soon the first object inquired for by strangers visiting las minas del cobre, was the Stella Bianca of the
                  mines.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               STELLA BIANCA—the White Star! For years shut up from the heat and
                  light of the sun, Tzella's skin, in its purity and whiteness, reminded one of a
                  japonica leaf, while the moist atmosphere of the mines had rendered it so
                  delicately soft, it could be compared to nothing but itself. Her hair was long,
                  dark, and glossy; her eyes, deep blue, but when animated by the emotions of her
                  heart, seemed brilliantly black; had it not been so, she, in her appellation,
                  might have escaped the affixture of stella, to
                  that of bianca, which was now so truthfully
                  applicable. Her features were of Persian mould. Her form, as yet too slender to be
                  attractive, was luxury undeveloped;—it could not escape the casual observer even,
                  that, by a little rounding and filling out, she would be a model for a Venus.
               The labor which Tzella performed in the mines gave her strength of muscle few
                  women possess, while the same moist atmosphere which had rendered so like velvet
                  her delicate skin, fostered a suppleness and elasticity of limb that caused her
                  movements to be ever winningly graceful. She was, in fact, much more like an
                  Armenian than an English girl; and one could not imagine, if without the charm of
                  dress and education she was so attractive, to what extent these, when they
                  rendered their aid in all that can fascinate nate, would imbue with the intoxicating odor of
                  love every mind that contemplated her, or with what myriads of enthusiastic
                  admirers she would surround herself.
               By her gentleness, Tzella won the affectionate regards of all the ladies—and they
                  were many—who visited the mines; so that in a short time she became the pet of St.
                  Jago; and few parties were given there to which she was not invited. It was at the
                     festa of the patron saint of the town that
                  she first made her appearance in public.
               On such gala days all the people seem to be on an equality, and everything that
                  tends to fraternise and make the masses happy, is submitted to, and joined in,
                  with the utmost good humor. All business is suspended, and merriment is the order
                  of the day. Men, women, and children, masked, stroll about the streets, which
                  blaze with huge pine torches stuck in the ground. Many a bella donna flourishes in her best ball-room costume, while some,
                  dressed in gay and grotesque garments, ride in dilapidated vehicles, sing comic
                  songs, and jest with the multitude. Parties seeming still more happy go about with
                  bands of music, and entering each and every house they choose, present themselves
                  to the ladies for a waltz, and of course, are accepted. After one or two rounds
                  they move on, and appear to be welcome at every door. Each hour, the joviality of
                  all classes appears on the increase, and at the close of the last day of the
                  festival, a brilliant madness evidently pervades the entire community.
               If anything had been planned to charm Tzella with the world, it could hardly have
                  been more successful than were these scenes, and the Spanish music and dancing
                  which she now enjoyed for the first time. In the waltz, there was that slow,
                  line-of-beauty, wavy, half-voluptuous, half-languid movement, which found a
                  response at once in her own native sense of what constituted real grace. In the
                  music there were harmony and mellowness which suited well her susceptible and
                  gentle nature, and somewhat melancholy temperament.
               Don Juan de Sagarras, an accomplished and benevolent Cubano, received the
                  beautiful Tzella into his saloons, with that distinguished courtesy which made her
                  feel at once as if at home, and among true friends. If she was, at first, too
                  timid to be interesting, she was far from being unattractive. With the greatest
                  interest she watched the dancers, and in an hour, each figure they executed was
                  distinctly impressed on her mind. Till that time she was a mere spectator; but
                  then a young man came, and more by look and manner than by words, urged her to be
                  his partner. She could not refuse—she assented, and in a moment, within an arm
                  yielding gently to her sylph-like form, to the astonishment of all she was swaying
                  through the waltz with a native grace no culture could have heightened, no art
                  improved.
               With Lady Sagarras and her lovely children, Tzella became the greatest favorite
                  possible, and nothing would content them short of her becoming an inmate of their
                  dwelling. To this proposition Tzella at once raised, as she supposed, an
                  insuperable barrier. "My good father," said she, "is still at the hospital of the
                  mines, and I shall never abandon him. He has more than once saved me from death,
                  and while he lives I shall be to him as a faithful daughter."
               "You speak," said Lady Sagarras, "as though you were not his child."
               
               "I am not," replied Tzella, "and do not know who my parents were. The woman who
                  took care of me in England said they were dead; yet I often recall some remarks of
                  hers about a lady who paid her money for me; and her saying once, when she seemed
                  forgetful that she was talking, 'Your mother tells me, if I do not teach you to
                  pray, she will take you away.'" Here the poor girl was lost in thought.
               "And this may account for something we see in you which charms us," replied Lady
                  Sagarras, with much earnestness.
               "I thank, you, dear lady, and I love you much, but cannot leave my adopted
                  father."
               "Well, good girl, that shall not separate us. Your friend shall have a room
                  here,—I have a plenty of servants to attend him,—and you will be a companion of,
                  and a pupil with, my children, who, you know, are! all very fond of you."
               "They hardly know me yet," said Tzella, much affected by the woman's kindness.
               "They have heard of you often, and have wished much to see you; and, as you far
                  surpass their expectations, they plead earnestly for your remaining with
                  them."
               "I will assent to your wishes, dear Lady Sagarras," replied Tzella, "only on the
                  condition that when we become burdensome to you, you shall let me know,—and, while
                  we stay, receive from me fifty reales, weekly,
                  for my father's board."
               "This last proposition is indeed a painful one—one I could not willingly accept.
                  But how have you money to pay with?"
               "For eight years the good man has worked in the mines, and he now finds credited
                  to him on the company's books, a large sum, which he gives me charge of, and which
                  I must use for him: when that amount fails, I shall find means myself to support
                  him."
               "I at first thought you were a beautiful foreign girl, but I now think you an
                  angel," replied Lady Sagarras, "and be assured my children shall not lose your
                  influence, while they Will be indebted to you for teaching them French, which, I
                  understand, the good miner has taught you—he being a Frenchman."
               Don Juan de Sagarras, who had acted till now only as interpreter, rose and took
                  the girl's trembling hand, kissed it, and bade her be assured that he heartily
                  joined his wife and children in their wishes for her to remain. He then
                  retired.
               The following day found Tzella and her adopted father installed in St. Jago, and
                  never were beings happier. Tzella learned the Spanish rapidly, the girls French
                  but slowly; yet their tutor failed not in her efforts and devotion. If she
                  sometimes considered it a task, she was fully repaid when her companions taught
                  her some new dance. In this she was a more apt scholar than in anything else, and
                  rivalled the best in the town.
               Days, months, a whole year, passed away; the good miner's money was being
                  exhausted; jealousy had sprung up in the family, and Tzella resolved on a new
                  course of life. El Signor Sagarras and his good lady loved her as their own child,
                  and would have been as loth to part with her as any other in the family, had not
                  the daughters induced them to believe that it was detrimental to their interests to retain her. They stated
                  that not a gentleman in the whole town, who visited them, paid them the slightest
                  attention while Tzella was present; that, by her artfulness, she turned the heads
                  and captivated the hearts of all who approached her; and, though the saloons were
                  thronged from morning till night, Tzella was the sole attraction.
               We cannot but suppose that the admiration bestowed on Tzella much gratified Her,
                  yet her sensitive nature could not brook the occasional slights she was subject
                  to; and, when she discovered the cause, fixed her determination to return to
                  Europe, and try some way to support herself and helpless friend.
               When it was rumored abroad that the Stella
                     Bianca was about to leave the country, thousands of rich and
                  beautiful presents were sent to her—some accompanied by bouquets, expressive of
                  hope and love, some of despair. All this afforded her a momentary happiness; but
                  nothing, save the gratitude of the old miner, appeared to touch her
                     heart. Professions and compliments she had learned to understand,
                  and as they looked superficial, they glided away from her memory, leaving there no
                  sunny rays. She had but commenced her fifteenth year, yet there was in her
                  soul—even if not by her comprehended—a sublime conception of Love, of Truth, of
                  Beauty, of God. We will not say from whence this came, yet we believe she
                  inherited it, or it grew out of her habit of contemplating the Almighty, His
                  wonderful works, His goodness. When she came in contact with any one whose
                  physiognomy bore not the impress of high, refined and generous sentiments within,
                  she involuntarily shrank from him, and turning her eyes heavenward, seemed to
                     say:—There only am I understood—there only can my
                  affections repose.
               "A Dios, amigos, a Dios, bono Santo Iago," said
                  Tzella, one beautiful morning, as, with tears in her eyes, she stood on the deck
                  of a vessel, and waved with her handkerchief an adieu to her many friends on the
                  shore—to the land where she had won knowledge, strength of body and mind, that
                  were to be jewels to her in after years.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               CHARLES WELLINGTON, with his mother, plotted and planned and planned and plotted,
                  day after day and night after night. Mrs. Wellington had become a monomaniac on
                  the subject of ruining Smithers. It was her study—and no hour passed, when she was
                  awake, that found not her thoughts associated with revenge and her seducer.
               Mrs. Wellington was once a girl of ardent temperament, of strong affections, of
                  great exuberance of spirits, and the life of the country village where she was
                  born. Her parents—her father a clergyman—strictly Orthodox, devoted most of their
                  time to curbing her in her innocent sports. They shut up to her the ball room, all
                  parties, games, public amusements, till life became a burden, and she resolved on
                  self-destruction. The resolution once taken, she only awaited the hour when her
                  parents slept, to seek the bridge from which she was to precipitate herself into a
                  watery grave. Midnight found her prepared to take the fatal leap; but at that
                  moment a gentleman, springing from a coach that was whirling on towards London,
                  stayed her in her desperate design. What was now to be done? The stranger could
                  not delay his journey, nor could he find it in his heart to abandon the girl to
                  her own guidance. He determined to take her with him to the next station, where he
                  could place her in safe hands; and encountering little or no opposition, bore the
                  trembling, frightened creature to the vehicle he had just left, and was soon
                     en route.
               
               During the six or eight miles which intervened from the bridge to the village
                  where the coach was to stop, the unhappy Margaret so far recovered as to be able
                  to explain all the causes which led her to desire death; and when, at last, the
                  driver drew rein, and hurried to the coach door in expectation of finding a raving
                  maniac needing medical aid, he was only laughed at, and informed that his
                  passengers were very good friends, and that the rescuer of the female had decided
                  to be her future guardian, and make a dweller in his own family.
               To the youthful creature, so suddenly torn from the cold grasp of death, and
                  brought within the warm influences of an apparently sincere friendship, the world
                  looked bright indeed; and having changed her name, so that her parents could not
                  discover her, resolved, as she entered London, to lead such a life of gaiety and
                  dissipation even, that she should never again be driven to contemplate such a
                  fearful act as that from which she had so recently, so miraculously been
                  saved.
               The family that received the vivacious country girl was one of fashion, and its
                  rounds of pleasure intoxicated her—she, by the wish of the master, being allowed
                  to participate in the full measure of its dissipation. Within a week she was
                  deeply in love with a gay Lothario, in the son of her benefactor. Her young and
                  priceless affections were trilled with, made the sport of an hour, and then cast
                  away as though but a soiled glove. Overwhelmed with disappointment, she fled from her new-found home,
                  and was almost on the point of abandoning herself to the generosity of an
                  inhospitable and unfeeling public; but her better spirit triumphing, she sought
                  and obtained a situation as a domestic. After living in different parts of the
                  town, she finally entered into the service of the family of that man, by whose
                  villainy we have seen confiding innocence turned to murky misanthrony—a life of
                  trust and love, to one of hatred and revenge.
               Fair Margaret having followed in the footsteps of her illustrious mother
                  Eve—having eaten of the forbidden fruit, though the fairest in the garden of her
                  Paradise—began here her sorrowful descent; "but let him that is without sin cast
                  the first stone at her." Unequivocal attention had been tendered to her, and such
                  oaths of devotion and constancy as the unsophisticated never doubt;—Heaven look
                  kindly on the simplicity and guilelessness of their hearts!—and when it was too
                  late, she saw the flaming sword waving at the entrance to the happy land from
                  which she had gone out.
               "Charles, my son," said Mrs. Wellington, "you have now been at home long enough;
                  besides, our money is nearly all spent. Go at once up to London and see Smithers;
                  tell him who you are, demand a place in his counting-room, and means by which I
                  can live handsomely. Take no evasive reply from him. Tell him you know all, and
                  that his only course of safety is to do as I say. The demand I make is not so
                  unreasonable that he will seek my life, for it will not require much of a
                  sacrifice; otherwise I should not dare to press it."
               "Your life, mother! How dare he think of such a thing, while I'm alive?" and
                  Charles looked as though he had seen forty years. "Have you not told me his life
                  was at your mercy?"
               "My son, for that very reason he must not be pressed: he must not dream that I
                  ever think of the power I have to control him."
               "We'll work him sly then, mother. That's your game, is it?"
               "Yes, my son, for he's cunning as a fox; and if he scents the track, will round
                  the hill."
               "Aye, and cross his own track a dozen times to cheat us hounds upon the
                  scent."
               "Game, my son, game. He's our game. Now go and outwit the fox."
               Charles took, in his way, an affectionate farewell of his mother, and started for
                  London. The little villain's brain teemed with schemes for the future. His heart
                  did not seem to cry for blood, but for remuneration for misfortune. He had an idea
                  that, had he been born rich, he should have been a charitable gentleman, but since
                  he was poor, he was determined to make the rich what their good
                  fortunes should have made them.
               On arriving at the end of his journey, he immediately proceeded to Smithers's
                  place of business, and with his usual swagger, his hat on one side, and his hands
                  in his coat tail pockets—for he had donned a coat—he walked into that
                     respectable gentleman's counting-room.
               "How are you, friend Smithers?" said Charles, taking off his hat, and carrying up
                  a chair towards where Mr. Smithers was sitting at his desk.
               
               Mr. Smithers, intruded on in that insolent manner by a rude-looking boy, seized a
                  bell to ring for the servant to turn him out.
               "My name is Wellington," said Charles, quickly, in order to stay Mr. Smithers in
                  his intentions. The announcement had the desired effect. Mr. Smithers dropped the
                  bell, and putting his hand to his forehead, stood aghast.
               "Be seated," said Charles, settling himself down, "and I'll tell my errand in
                  short, double-quick time."
               "Do so," said Smithers, seating himself with evident trepidation.
               "You must take me into your counting-room and make a merchant of me," continued
                  Charles.
               "You?" exclaimed Smithers.
               "Yes, me," replied Charles, in the same tone; "and what is more, must send to my
                  mother immediately as much money as she wants."
               Smithers grew pale with rage, and could with difficulty restrain himself from
                  throttling the boy at once; but recollecting—what he had long ceased to think
                  of—that Mrs. Wellington knew more of his affairs than was prudent to provoke her
                  to expose, he, with an assumed mildness, and with a desire to gain time to know
                  how to extricate himself, said: "You are a very worthy young man, I perceive, and
                  doubt not would make an excellent clerk, but at this moment have no vacancy—no
                  business in which I could employ you."
               "Well, well, Mr. Smithers, then I'll find business for you," replied the young
                  brigand, leaning back in his chair, as if ruminating on an important affair.
               "But, my good young friend, you must allow me time so as to arrange a suitable
                  situation fo you," replied Smithers, with increasing suavity, at the same time
                  wishing he could arrange one to suit himself, which would be near a gallows with
                  the "young friend" swinging on it.
               Ah! Smithers, Smithers! The boy was worthy of thee, and thou shouldst not have
                  thought so unkindly of him. He had not a bad heart, nor a cramped intellect, and
                  hadst thou given to him the means of a virtuous education, he might have done
                  honor to the king.
               "How much time do you ask?" continued the boy.
               "To-morrow, at this time," said Smithers, glad to get a moment for thought.
               "Well, old covey," said Charles, "to-morrow, at this time, I'll be on my taps. So,
                  good day," and he swaggered out in the manner he had entered.
               Smithers breathed again when he saw the young scamp close the door; and if ever a
                  brain was put to the rack, it was his at that time, in order to discover some
                  means of ridding himself of this living incubus, which was to sit at his board by
                  day and his pillow by night—a thorn to recall his treacheries in the past and keep
                  him in fear of the future.
               Night passed, and the morning found Smithers ill for want of sleep and the
                  inability to decide on any course that could lead to a restoration of his
                  independence. Thoughtful he went to his counting-room, where a fortunate incident
                  came to his relief. Messrs. Carne & Telo, worthy and distinguished merchants,
                  about to send a vessel round the world, on a trading voyage, applied to him for a
                  shipment. The application was no sooner made than assented to, for there was a chance to rid himself
                  of his child—at least for a year or two, and perhaps for ever if the bâtard should be so careless as to fall overboard.
               "I will make such a shipment as you desire, on one condition," said Smithers,
                  "which is, that you take the son of a friend of mine as a supercargo's clerk; that
                  is, nominally as such, though when at sea to be done with as the captain pleases.
                  Do you understand?"
               "We understand perfectly, and will give our captain instructions accordingly,"
                  replied the merchant.
               Smithers was relieved, but awaited, with some anxiety, the appearance of the boy.
                  The appointed hour brought him.
               "Well, Mr. Smithers," said Charles, "I s'pose you've decided;" and Charles took a
                  seat without invitation or comment.
               "I have decided on a most noble place for you," replied Smithers, assuming a
                  joyful look, and rubbing his hands. "You have come in the most opportune time
                  possible; and if you were not here I do not know what I could do."
               "Well, well, what is it?" said the boy, impatiently.
               "Good news, as well as bad news," replied Smithers, "should be communicated
                  gradually; and I know this will delight you, as it opens a way to eminence and
                  wealth, as well as affords you the advantage of seeing the world."
               "But my mother's money—when is she to have that?" asked Charles, abruptly.
               "Immediately," responded Smithers. "All is to be arranged. I should have sent what
                  she needed, but she discontinued writing to me, and so I supposed she had found
                  better friends."
               "You can't come it, old covey. 'Twont do! Mother's told me a different story; so
                  no more gammon for me."
               "Well, well, my good young friend. I was going to tell you that I have shipped,
                  to-day, on board bark Wellington—named for your good mother—a large quantity of
                  merchandize, which you are to take charge of and dispose of in Canton to the best
                  advantage, and bring returns in silks or teas, as you deem most favorable to our
                  mutual interest;" and Smithers eyed the boy closely and anxiously to see the
                  effect of his speech,—and if he was seen through; but it took well.
               "You've done me justice, and damn me if I see how mother could have ever said you
                  wan't a perfect trump," replied the youth, swelling so inconceivably with a good
                  opinion of himself, that Smithers nearly laughed outright.
               "You are pleased, and so am I," said Smithers. "Now I will tell you of a plan for
                  your mother. I will at once procure a fine house, furnish it, and send for her to
                  come and enjoy it here till your return."
               "Better and better!" shouted Charles.
               "The barque will sail to-morrow afternoon, and in the meantime procure yourself
                  the necessary clothing; here's ten pounds for you; and to-morrow morning I will
                  show you the house I've procured for your mother."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               CHARLES WELLINGTON, satisfied with his new importance, proceeded to prepare
                  himself for his voyage. Smithers, in the mean time, sought out a house to be let,
                  and appointed an agent, with proper instructions, to remain there and receive the
                  boy whom he would send with his card. The agent was to inform Master Wellington
                  that the house had been rented for a noble lady, a Mrs. Wellington, and that he,
                  as an agent for Mr. Smithers, had been authorized to supply her with all the money
                  she needed.
               Charles Wellington alighted at the door of the mansion to which Mr. Smithers had
                  directed him, and walked slowly and dignifiedly up the steps, as though he had
                  been sole proprietor of the entire street. At the door the agent welcomed him,
                  showed to him the house, and explained the nature of the innumerable orders Mr.
                  Smithers had given concerning the reception of Mrs. Wellington, who, he said, was
                  now hourly expected.
               Everything worked as Mr. Smithers had designed, Charles Wellington was perfectly
                  at ease, and in the afternoon went on board the ship, which, on the following
                  morning, loosed her cables and swung off for sea. Smithers stood on the dock, and
                  bade the boy farewell; and if ever a heart beat with joy it was Smithers's, when
                  the private signal of the barque disappeared down the Thames.
               Once out at sea, the youth, who had swelled into the pomp and authoritative manner
                  of a great man, found himself but a boy; and soon nothing but a cabin-boy. The
                  cunning which had sufficed him in stealing the power he had exercised over
                  Smithers, were unavailable properties in the bark Wellington; and when the captain
                  ordered him into the service of the cabin, though he stoutly rebelled, he was soon
                  brought to an understanding by being knocked from all sorts of standing into the
                  Ice scuppers. Had this been all, he would have had an easy time; but his stubborn
                  spirit occasionally showing itself, found a recompense in his being ordered to
                  furl the royals, or slush down the masts.
               "Lay aloft there, you young lubber," said the captain to the boy, and with a
                  rope's-end gave him an impetus he did not soon lose. It was a fearful thing to
                  climb the rigging when the ship, rolling in the storm, was nearly dipping her
                  yard-arms in the water; but aloft the boy had to go.
               There is no danger, say seamen, of fresh hands falling overboard, they cling so
                  firmly to the rigging; and in the case of young Wellington, no one feared for the
                  results of his—sky-larking.
               When the boy reached the main-top, which he did by climbing through the
                  lubber-hole, he concluded to go up no further; but when he saw the rope's-end
                  following him, in the hands of the second mate, he concluded to go. Aloft, aloft
                  he climbed, and still aloft he had to go. Fear seemed to concentrate his thoughts;
                  and as often as he saw the fluttering sail above him, he nerved himself afresh.
                  When he reached the royal yard, so high was he from the deck, that each roll of the ship swayed him through the
                  air at a fearful velocity—it would seem a hundred feet from side to side. The sail
                  was furled, and he descended safely;—but the work was one he had daily to peril
                  his life in doing.
               Months passed away, and new tasks and hardships were imposed upon the youth. He
                  was turned forward among the sailors—a good-hearted and noble set of fellows,—and
                  he was kept during his watch on deck, unremmittingly at work. He dared not
                  complain, for the rope's-end, he knew by experience, was a sorry response; but he
                  had no idea that his sufferings were the design of Smithers, but arose from the
                  rascality of the captain. He also believed that he should have redress when he
                  named the affair to his father.
               One hundred and fifty days were passed at sea, when an excellent pilot of the
                  Hoogly came on board and navigated the vessel through one of the dangerous mouths
                  of the Ganges, up to the beautiful city of Calcutta. Charles Wellington was now
                  delighted, and began to prepare himself to go on shore; but he was immediately set
                  to work breaking out cargo, and during the four months' stay at the quay, was
                  never allowed to step his foot upon the land. When he once ventured to ask what
                  was to be done with the goods shipped by Mr. Smithers, he was told that a more
                  intelligent person had taken charge of them. He then grew angry, and, informing
                  the ship's crew that he was Mr. Smithers's son, became their laughing stock and
                  butt, which made his sojourn among them more than ever uncomfortable.
               When the barque had been reloaded, she sailed for the islands of Sumatra and Java,
                  and thence to Canton. On arriving at Batavia, the boy had been so harshly treated
                  he resolved to submit no longer, and running away from the vessel, wandered into
                  the interior. He was not sought after, for he had only done what the captain
                  desired he should; so his anxiety and speed only served to involve himself, and
                  make his chance of returning more and more problematical.
               After three days' travel southward, Charles reached a native village, consisting
                  of about an hundred house, made of bamboo. As he approached the place, he was
                  surrounded by naked boys, who set up a hideous shouting and screaming, which
                  brought out a sort of police, who took him at once into custody. Carried before a
                  judge, his sentence was pronounced after some consultation. He was then chained to
                  a villainous-looking native, and a large earthen jar, (such as his companion had
                  on his head,) given to him, and he was soon made to understand that he was to
                  bring, for the good inhabitants, water from a distant stream.
               Master Wellington would now have gladly returned to the ship, but it was too late.
                  A hopeless state of bondage was before him, and death became a pleasing thought.
                  Once he escaped, and was recaptured and cruelly punished. Several years passed,
                  and he had grown manly and strong, and one day trying his muscles upon his chains,
                  snapped them and set himself at liberty. Fortune favored him. He reached the port,
                  and going on board a vessel, found he was a most welcome visitant—several of the
                  ordinary crew having died, and left the captain in distress for hands.
               
               The Italian brig in which the young Englishman was now installed, was loaded with
                  spices, and bound to Genoa. If it had been going to England, his heart would have
                  more rejoiced; but still, free from slavery, and on his way home, he had little
                  cause to be otherwise than grateful. He did feel grateful. His early misfortunes,
                  the sufferings and privations he had long endured, his present escape,—each made a
                  deep and powerful impression upon him. His heart seemed changed, and he exclaimed,
                  when once more at sea—"God is good!"
               Subdued, yet energetic, young Wellington received the approbation of all on board,
                  and was in reality a favorite. After a long and boisterous voyage they anchored
                  within the mole of Genoa, from which position the beautiful city is seen to rise a
                  perfect picture of enchantment. Here Wellington was obliged to remain for a while,
                  as he could find no vessel bound to England; and as he had acquired much of the
                  Italian tongue by a five months' intercourse with his shipmates, he was capable of
                  making himself useful in many ways, and thus obtain the means of living as his new
                  character suggested. His first effort was a good and successful one. He visited
                  the foreign vessels in port and offered to supply them with provisions at a very
                  small profit—a proposition many captains gladly accepted, as he was sure to secure
                  better bargains for them than they could for themselves.
               In the pursuit of his new calling, Charles Wellington met with an incident which
                  had an important bearing on his future career. One day, in the market, he saw a
                  young girl who had on sale two lambs, which she had brought in from the country.
                  Wanting one of them to supply his customers, he at once accosted her, bargained
                  for the fattest one, and paid the money; but as the girl received it, she burst
                  into tears, and as she buried her face in her apron, the coin, so paltry to her,
                  compared with her feelings, fell to the earth, and she no longer seemed to care
                  for anything.
               "Bella Signorita!" said Wellington, "why in heaven's name do you shed tears—have I
                  not given you enough for the lamb?"
               "Oh yes!" sobbed the girl, "but it was my pet lamb, and I did not know how much I
                  loved it till it was lost to me."
               "But why do you sell it," asked the youth, "if you prize it so much?"
               "Because, good sir, we are poor, and father told me to sell it," replied she.
               "And who is your father?" asked Wellington.
               "Antonio Bolaro, at your service."
               "Bolaro! Bolaro!" exclaimed the young man; "it is a name I remember well—where
                  does he live?"
               "In the Val de Mazzara," was the reply.
               "'Tis the same—it must be! And who knows but I may be the means of making them
                  happy!" and he looked earnestly at the girl, who had now uncovered her face to see
                  the person who seemed interested in her father. "You are beautiful," continued he,
                  "and I will serve you—atleast a little now.". Here he hesitated a
                  moment, for the thought came to him that the girl might be married, as he knew
                  they married very young in Italy; and then, that the one she spoke of might not be
                  the person his mother had mentioned to him. "Exchange lambs with me," continued tinued Wellington, "and here is money
                  for both of them. Take the pet home, and keep him till I come. It's
                  not far, is it?"
               "No, kind sir," said the Signorita, "it is not far. If you start when the sun
                  comes over the cliff of Chiaveri, you will get there by mid-day. Take the road
                  along the Basagno." She then kissed the hand of the young man and bade him
                     adio; and as she turned away, the lamb
                  skipped at her side, and her tears again fell fast—but now for very joy.
               Young Wellington at once commenced a new train of thoughts, awakening new desires
                  and new resolutions. For the first time in all his life he felt his heart heaving
                  to a gentle sentiment. The girl he had just seen could have led him, as she did
                  her pet lamb, with a gala ribbon. His voice and manner were now gentle, the future
                  had a peculiar brightness in it, and he fixed the day when he was again to see the
                  fair creature who had given him a new inspiration.
               The following Sabbath found the young man following up the stream of the Besagno,
                  and long before mid-day he reached a little cottage in the valley of the
                  Apennines. Before he arrived, however, who should come down the path to meet him
                  but the young girl and the lamb. They seemed overjoyed; and as the former bowed
                  down to kiss his hand, the latter put his little feet up on the stranger and
                  waited to be caressed. Young Wellington was very happy, and resolved to give his
                  life to the rescuing of this good family from poverty.
               As the trio approached the humble dwelling, the good shepherd came from his door
                  to welcome the young man who had shown so much kind feeling towards a poor country
                  girl.
               "You are welcome," said Bolaro, as he extended his hand, "and for your sake, kind
                  sir, I wish I had a better dwelling; I wish I had the means of showing that
                  hospitality my heart prompts me to."
               "Make no apologies," said Wellington, "for I'm but a poor sailor; and if I have
                  done anything to please you, it probably grew out of the hardships I have myself
                  endured. Tell me if you ever had a brother."
               "Yes, good sir; I had a brother, who was in the wars in Spain, and afterwards
                  went—"
               "Where?"
               "To England, I believe," said Bolaro, "though I for years thought he was
                  dead."
               "I knew it was he!" exclaimed Wellington. "And he died there?"
               "Died?" said Bolaro, and the tears started to his eyes.
               "Did he not die?" asked Wellington.
               "For years I have not heard from him," said Bolaro; "but I never dreamed that he
                  was dead, after I heard he had not died in Spain. You speak as though you had
                  known him,—tell me of him."
               "I never saw him," replied Wellington, thoughtfully, for he began to consider it
                  best not to awaken hopes he might not be able to fulfil, "but heard my mother
                  mention such a name when I was a boy of ten. I think she said he died, and left a
                  brother in Italy."
               "And where does your mother live?" asked Bolaro, with much anxiety.
               "In England; and as I go there immediately, I will inquire about your brother, and
                  let you know."
               
               "You are indeed most kind and good," said Bolaro, with unsuppressed gratitude.
               "I will even promise to return, and bring the news myself, if you can make me one
                  promise," and he looked up to the young girl, who was watching him with an
                  interest that surpassed curiosity.
               "I will make any good promise," said the shepherd, "that I am able to keep."
               "I am a rough man, I know," said the youth, "and have been a bad one, but now I
                  will strive to do better, and will return to you with good news, if you will
                  pledge me your word that this lovely girl shall not give her hand to any one
                  within one year."
               "You do us an honor, dear sir, by bestowing a thought on a poor shepherd's child;
                  and surely we can have no reason for not giving you the promise—can we Saffi? Can
                  we, Stella?" and he turned first to his daughter, and then to his wife, who had
                  just then entered, bearing on her head a huge bundle of sticks she had been
                  collecting in the mountains.
               Saffi had turned away and hid her face in her hands, and made no reply. The mother
                  had to be told the story, when she at once gave her consent.
               Wellington then rose, shook hands with the good shepherd and wife, and as Saffi
                  still stood with her back towards him, he passed out of the door without bidding
                  her adieu. How strange it is, that those whom we love most are oftentimes the ones
                  whom we most fear to approach! that those names most sacred to our ears are the
                  ones we most fear to hear spoken; and that, like the wild bird, who, fearing to be
                  followed to his nest, takes a circuitous route, we often alk wide of the subject
                  which most interests us!
               Saffi's heart had become too much involved with the young man to let him go
                  without taking one more look at him; so she slowly followed him to the door,
                  accompanied by her little lamb. Wellington, however, had not lingered as she
                  supposed he would, and, with tearful eyes, she saw him hurry down the path and
                  disappear—perhaps never to return again.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               AFTER the departure of her boy Charles, Mrs. Wellington, sure of the success of
                  his mission, sat down quietly by her dingy window, and tried to knit; but so often
                  found herself nervously letting down stitches, as she contemplated her final
                  triumph over Smithers, that she laid her work aside to luxuriate, in perspective,
                  in the wealth that must necessarily, as she thought, soon come to her. But Mrs.
                  Wellington had not calculated on the cunning of others. She had calculated on the
                  means she had of weaving a web to suit herself, but not on the power that might be
                  brought into action against her, induced by the very machinery at work in her own
                  fabric.
               Day after day passed, and no news arrived of her son. Grief, mortification, her
                  worst passions, and even want, had long been at work to undermine her
                  constitution, and she was now really unable to support herself—to find in her own
                  system that energy necessary to procure, by labor, the ordinary comforts off life.
                  When her son had left her alone, and she sat down, as we have said, to contemplate
                  her coming happiness, it was at a moment when nature was exhausted, and when, if
                  ever, she needed the support her child might give, and the consolations of love
                  and friendship to which she had so long been a stranger.
               A week passed, and no tidings came of her boy; and Mrs. Wellington resolved to go
                  herself to London. For two days she had been without food—not being able to go out
                  for it—and how she was able to reach the metropolis, without money and in her
                  feeble state of health, she did not know. Necessity, however, impelled her
                  forward. She tied up a few clothes in a handkerchief, took the bundle under her
                  arm, and, with shoes scarcely good enough to keep her unstockinged feet from the
                  ground, commenced her journey. Weaker than she had even imagined herself to be,
                  she reeled along the streets of Falmouth. The boys, thinking her intoxicated,
                  jeered at her, which sent the big tears down her haggard cheeks, and recalled the
                  time when, ten years or so previous, she passed through the same village, bearing
                  one little one at least, who, had she done justice by it, would now, doubtless,
                  have been the mainstay of her happiness.
               During the first day, she dragged herself along for about ten miles, and reached
                  one of those poor hovels the landlords give their tenants. She was there, at
                  first, repulsed; but, by explaining the nature of her misery, obtained shelter,
                  though no food could be spared by the famishing inmates. Another day came, and
                  still more exhausted she proceeded on her journey. Several carriages with armorial
                  emblems passed her, and their occupants who condescended to cast their eyes upon
                  the wanderer, doubtless regarded her as a being of a different structure from
                  themselves, or as one who chose and loved misery for its very comfort. By and by,
                  a poor Scotch traveller overtook her, and noticing her famished appearance, kindly
                  accosted her. "Old woman," said he, "you appear weary;— wouldn't you like a wee draught of some good Scotch
                  whiskey?"
               "You are a kind gentleman," replied Margaret, "and the only one who has thought I
                  needed either food or drink, and I am perishing for lack of them."
               "Oh! you need not perish for that, for here's a wallet full at your service.
                  You've seen better days, I think; and now I look at you, see that you are not the
                  old woman I took you to be."
               "Bitter disappointments in youth, blighted hopes, a crushed spirit, ill health,
                  bring on more age than do years," replied Margaret. "I am yet young, my hair is
                  yet rich and glossy, yet I go now to the grave."
               "No, no,—don't be disheartened—cheer up! Come sit here by the way-side and rest a
                  bit; and when you've taken a little more of the good stuff which has saved many a
                  weary traveller from an untimely end, we'll jog on together to the next village,
                  where I'll get you a conveyance to—where is it you go?"
               "To the grave, though I did start for London, merciful stranger, to see one who
                  has been the cause of all my misery."
               "I should think you'd like to see as little as possible of such as one," said the
                  Scotchman.
               "He pledged me the wealth of his heart and his coffers," responded Margaret; "but
                  in the former there was nothing, and the latter, had I claimed it, would have cost
                  me my life. After I was utterly ruined, I learned to know the man I had to deal
                  with. I bode my time, to consummate my revenge; my son is now working for me."
               "And who is this villain?"
               "John Knox Calvin Smithers," replied Margaret.
               "What! the man who has such a name for piety, and goodness, and wealth, even in
                  Glasgow, my own native city?"
               "Even that episcopal puritan."
               "I will see him myself," said the traveller, "as soon as I reach London. Be
                  assured he shall do you justice. Let us now go on, for I see the village yonder,
                  and you can find there a bed and the repose you need;" and he took Margaret's
                  bundle, and then placed one hand under her arm, to aid her on her way.
               When within a short distance of the contemplated place of rest, Margaret sank to
                  the earth, overcome by fatigue and sorrow. The good traveller then took her in his
                  arms, astonished at the delicacy of her frame, and carried her to the nearest
                  dwelling, which, happening to be the parsonage, was at once opened to receive her.
                  What an excitement this created! All of the family gathered about him to hear his
                  story. He related to them what he had learned from the sufferer's own lips, and it
                  deeply interested them, and each one was anxious to do something for her. A good
                  bed was prepared, her hat removed, her hair combed nicely back, her forehead and
                  hands bathed in vinegar, and a good broth prepared, to nourish and invigorate
                  her.
               The Scotchman now seeing his companion in good hands, proceeded on his way, not,
                  however, till he had offered what little money he possessed to defray any expenses
                  there might be, in aiding the poor houseless woman.
               "We will give your our blessing," said the good pastor, "but we cannot take your
                  money, for doing simply our duty. We even think this a privilege, for it is an
                     event that seldom occurs, and, when
                  it does, our hearts are in it. Perhaps, in this there is even selfishness,—for,
                  some twelve years ago, when we lived in the north, we lost a daughter, and think,
                  perhaps, she is wandering like this poor woman, houseless,
                  friendless, dying. But, farewell, and God bless you."
               "Why does he stop talking?" asked the dying Margaret, seeming for a moment to
                  revive, but not able to open her eyes. "Tell him to go on, for it brings all my
                  young days back to me. I heard that voice when a child; I remember that it made me
                  often happy, but where—Oh! my brain!—I forget. Tell him to come near me and bless
                  me, for I go away now 'to return no more forever.'"
               The old man, hearing her last words, drew near, and laying his hand upon her head,
                  blessed her in the name of the blessed Redeemer.
               There was something in the touch of the venerable pastor that electrified the
                  heart of the poor wanderer. Her eyes were opened. She sprang up in the bed, and
                  throwing her arms wildly about the old man's neck, poured out her life's breath in
                  saying—"my father! my father!"
               The father, weeping over his long lost child, refused to be comforted, because she
                  was now no more. Her mother had already gone to join the blessed in heaven, and
                  awaited her there. Young and lovely sisters, who only remembered her as a "lamb
                  gone astray," and for whom they had been taught to pray, morning and night—to pray
                  that, in heaven's mercy, she might return to her home again, and be a dear and
                  loved sister to them—these gentle girls, now feeling that a part of their prayers
                  had been answered, kneeled beside the bed, and taking the cold hands of the once
                  lovely Margaret, bathed them with unavailing tears.
               He had seen his first and dearest child; she had come home and received his
                  blessing, and died with his name upon her lips; yet the old man was smitten to the
                  very dust. He did not know where she had been, what had been her course of life,
                  nor how much she had suffered, nor if voluntarily. That she had suffered
                  intensely, was evident from her poor appearance, her emaciated form; while at the
                  parsonage, there had always been a vacant chair for her at table, and of food,
                  enough and to spare.
               Margaret was laid in the village church-yard, beside her mother.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXX.
               SMITHERS was sitting in his counting-room, very contented, as he had got rid of
                  the boy, and for a week had heard nothing about the mother, when the Scotch
                  traveller entered.
               "Mr. Smithers, I believe?"
               "At your service," replied Smithers, with a searching look.
               "I am a poor man, Mr. Smithers, but I have seen much of the world—its good, and
                  bad physiognomy; and I know there is a vast amount of villainy in it that goes for
                  a time unpunished."
               "Well," said Mr. Smithers, beginning to imagine the drift of the speech, which, as
                  truth, went home to his bosom.
               "I yesterday overtook a poor young woman, dying by the wayside. Her story was one
                  of seduction and abandonment; the result, crying misery and want; you, sir, the
                  cause."
               "Me! Do you intend insult to me, sir?" exclaimed Smithers, angrily, and rising
                  from his chair.
               "Yes, if truth can insult so shameless a man," said the Scotchman, coolly.
               "Your impudence shall be punished," said Smithers, frothing at the mouth.
               "Be calm, sir, and hear me out, or you yourself may receive the punishment,"
                  replied the traveller. "The woman's name is Margaret Wellington—perhaps you have
                  heard of her—and she knows some of your secrets."
               "Curse her!" said Smithers, gnashing his teeth, clenching his fists, and dropping
                  into his chair as though shot.
               "You know her, then?"
               "A mad woman of that name once crossed my path, I remember; and she has now again
                  probably escaped the mad-house. Where did you see her?" asked Smithers, much
                  moved.
               "On her way from Falmouth, sir," responded the Scotchman; "and to-morrow, if she
                  lives—though that is very doubtful, for she seemed almost gone when I left
                  her—will probably be here to claim that aid from you she so justly merits."
               Smithers for a while remained silent, for he was contemplating the best manner of
                  escaping the position into which he was being drawn. He at last said,—
               "Well, the poor woman doubtless needs assistance, and as I am rich I can afford to
                  aid her, and will do so."
               "You promise me to aid her as much as her destitute situation deserves," said the
                  Scotchman.
               "I pledge you my honor," replied Smithers, who did not intend to fulfil a particle
                  of his promise, made only as a ruse to get rid of his meddling visitor.
               "You are not, then; quite the man I judged you to be, from what the poor woman
                  told me. I take your pledge, and may God bless you," and he gave Smithers a
                     warm shake of the hand, and turned
                  his steps towards his native hills.
               Smithers had made up his mind, if Margaret arrived in London, to represent her as
                  an insane woman, and have her put into the hospital; but this act of villainy was
                  not permitted him to enjoy. Days and weeks passed away, and nothing was heard of
                  her; this, taken in connection with the story of her feeble health, told by the
                  Scotchman, convinced him that she had gone to her long account, and he again
                  settled down into the quiet life he had previously enjoyed.
               Four years after the preceding events, when, one Sabbath morning, Mr. Smithers was
                  preparing for church, the servant announced that a young man demanded to see
                  him.
               "What message does he bring?" said Smithers.
               "He would give me none, sir," said the servant.
               "Tell him, then, I am not in."
               "I did, sir, and he said he would remain, then, till you came."
               "I will go, then, myself," said Smithers, "and kick him out."
               What was Mr. Smithers astonishment, on reaching the hall, to find there Mr.
                  Charles Wellington, a tall, good looking, hardly young man, whom he had set down
                  as dead as a doughnut.
               "Good heavens!" exclaimed Smithers, "from what sea did you swim on shore?"
               "Sea weed goes where the current drifts it," replied Charles, extending his hand
                  to Mr. Smithers, "and I am glad the current of fortune set this way."
               Mr. Smithers could not say "Amen!" to that, for he wished him where sea weed
                  grows; yet having always; found that an amiable manner, which conciliated and gave
                  him time to plan, was the best, he assumed it, and said,—
               "I am most happy to see you again, for I feared you were dead; the captain, on his
                  return, informing me that you had deserted his vessel in Java and gone among the
                  natives. But walk this way, and let us be seated," and he passed to the
                  drawing-room, rang the bell, and ordered the servant to tell Mrs. Smithers he
                  should not attend her that morning to church.
               "I did, sir, desert the vessel, but it was owing to the harsh treatment I received
                  from the captain, which I know you would not approve of."
               "Of course not," responded Smithers.
               "But before I tell you of my adventures, tell me of my mother. What has she said
                  to my long absence?"
               "My dear young man," said Smithers, lengthening his face, and looking melancholy,
                  "of her I have but a sad, and mournful tale to relate."
               "What! She cannot be dead," exclaimed the boy, as a suspicion of foul play,
                  mingled with grief, nearly suffocated him.
               "Even so," answered Smithers; and the boy bent his head down between his knees,
                  and sobbed aloud. "You remember," continued he, "that I sent for her to come and
                  reside in the new house I had prepared and richly furnished for her. She started,
                  was taken sick, and died at the second village from Fatmouth."
               "Oh! could she have only lived till I returned home, the blow would not have been
                  so heavy; but now I wish I had never
                  returned," groaned Wellington, raising his head, and lifting his eyes to
                  heaven.
               "It was, indeed, a sad thing for all of us," said Smithers; "but though bowed by
                  the deepest grief, we rise again. You will soon recover from this, and be able to
                  seek your own living, and by perseverance may obtain wealth and
                  respectability."
               "By your words I should judge that you considered our relationship at an end,"
                  said Wellington, started from his grief by the remarks of Smithers.
               "Your long absence obliged me to make arrangements suited to my business, and now
                  I have no place for you."
               "Will my mother's wishes avail nothing?" asked the boy.
               "Your mother is dead, and cannot now peach," said Smithers, with some irony.
               Charles Wellington had not lost, by his years of bitter experience, any of his
                  early knowledge of men, nor his tact at taking advantage of circumstances; and
                  remembering that he had an important mission to fulfil—to fulfil for his own sake,
                  to avenge his mother, and to make Saffi happy—he racked his brain to invent the
                  best method of accomplishing it. At last he said,—
               "Dear Mr. Smithers, my ignorance of business is so great, I know I should not be
                  of much service in a commercial house, so I beg you will take me as a servant in
                  your family. I am poor, and will be very attentive; and rather than not be near
                  you, I will work for nothing except my board and clothes."
               The proposition struck Smithers as a favorable one, since it would save him a
                  pound sterling a month, and he immediately assented to it.
               "You will remember," said Smithers, "I shall keep you only on the conditions that
                  your mother's name and your origin shall never be mentioned within these
                  doors."
               "I agree to it all, only too glad to serve so good a man—one who was kind to my
                  mother." In this last there seemed such a biting sarcasm that Smithers looked at
                  the young man, as though he was sure of discovering a hidden meaning in it—but he
                  was foiled. If anything was intended, it was forgotten on the instant, for his
                  mother's name, which he had mentioned, absorbed his every thought, and he was
                  carried back to days when he sat with her, received her praise, had his good
                  fortune and greatness predicted to him, was watched over while ill, and welcomed
                  to her bosom when all the rest of the world spurned him.
               "We then understand 'each other perfectly," said Smithers.
               "I think we do; but do you know nothing more of mother?" asked Charles.
               "Nothing but what I have told you, and which I accidentally learned from a Scotch
                  traveller."
               "I must go to her grave," said the boy, "then I will return and commence my
                  servitude."
               "You can do as you think best," said Smithers, growing more austere the more he
                  felt his son's lack of power to harm him.
               "I think it will make me a better man," said William, with sincerity. "In two days
                  I shall return."
               "You will then excuse me," said Smithers, rising; "and when you do return the
                  servant and Mrs. Smithers will instruct
                  you in your duties, which we expect will be faithfully executed. I wish you good
                  day."
               The young man returned to the street, too sad to think of the successful step he
                  had taken to rub off some of the score of disgrace his father had heaped upon him,
                  and hunting up a public conveyance, was soon on his way towards Falmouth.
               When Wellington first reached the little village where his mother lay buried, he
                  was greatly disappointed in not finding any one who knew anything of his mother,
                  or had ever heard of her. At last an old man directed him to the parsonage, as the
                  place where he would be most likely to obtain information; so thitherward he
                  directed his steps.
               Charles Wellington, seeking to console himself, little knew with what rudeness he
                  was to strike the cords of other's hearts! With more than usual cordiality he was
                  welcomed by the parson and his family; for there was something in his voice, his
                  expression, and gait, which awakened a feeling of sympathy of which they had no
                  clue.
               "I'm but a rude sailor," said Charles to the parson, and making rather an awkward
                  bow, "and I hope you'll excuse my intruding on you; but I want to find the grave
                  of my mother, who died in this village."
               "Your mission is a good, though melancholy one," responded the parson. "What was
                  your mother's name?"
               "Margaret Wellington," said the young sailor.
               "I do not know that I ever heard that name," said the good man. "Where did she
                  come from?"
               "From Falmouth, and was going to London."
               "And died here! How long ago?" asked the parson, with some trepidation.
               "Four years ago."
               "Good God! Can it be our child you mean? Oh, heavens! it may be; for I see in your
                  every feature and look, my own lost Mary," and he grasped the boy by the hand, and
                  stared him into his face as though he would devour every lineament therein. "Say
                  on, my child, for I hope heaven has now answered my prayers, and is about to
                  reveal to me the history of her life."
               "Good father," said the young man, almost choked with grief, "I know but little of
                  her history, except that she was deceived by a rich man in London, called
                  Smithers, who some fifteen years ago sent her, under the name of Mrs. Wellington,
                  to Falmouth, for some purposes of his own, and promised to support her there.
                  After a while be neglected her, circumstances prevented her returning to London,
                  and for a long time she lived in Falmouth destitute. She told me that Smithers was
                  my father; but when I sought him he kicked me from, his doors, and only now
                  condescends to receive me as a servant. He told me that he learned of her death
                  from a Scotch traveller."
               "My son! my son!" exclaimed the parson, in a tone of utter sadness, "it was not
                     thy sin, but my daughter's. In you I have nothing to forgive, but
                  will love you and serve you for my dear daughter's sake. It was my
                  daughter whom you seek. She died in these very arms. By the goodness of God she
                  was permitted to come home to die. A kind Scotchman found her by the way-side, and
                  aided her here, not knowing that he was conducting her to her father." Here the
                  old man's tears and sobs interposed, and he could proceed no further.
               
               "Good sir, I know now that I have told you what I ought not, for she was your
                     daughter and my mother; you must forgive me. And now,
                  if you 'II show me her grave, I will leave you, that I may not, by being here,
                  bring up the recollection of 'her sin'—if you call it so."
               Without uttering a word, the old man led Wellington to the grave-yard, behind the
                  church, where there was a mound without a monument, but shaded with flowers, which
                  clustered thickly together, and showed the constant care of some tender hand. We
                  will not attempt to describe the scene at the grave. A child weeping for his
                  mother, yet mingling with his grief some stern resolve of revenge. A father
                  mourning for his own young lamb that went astray, mingling with his prayers for
                  her happiness, his own blessing and forgiveness.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               THE good parson extended to Charles Wellington the courtesies of friendship and
                  even paternity. The young man gratefully acknowledged, but could not accept of
                  them, and turning back to London, commenced his duties as a servant. The bold,
                  exciting life of a sailor, to which he had of late been accustomed, nearly
                  unfitted him for domestic drudgery, though the humble position he for several
                  years previous occupied in captivity—a position in which no murmur of complaint
                  was allowed to escape his lips—enabled him to endure his confinement, and the
                  severity of a stern master, with perfect equanimity.
               After some months, when so much accustomed to the presence of their new servant as
                  not to remember that he stood behind their chairs, the Smithers's talked without
                  restraint, and discussed family affairs as though they were entirely alone.
               "I am heartily glad that woman is dead," said Smithers to his wife, "for she knew
                  too much."
               "Yes; but then she rendered us a great service, and was the means of bringing so
                  much of my father's property into our hands, and that, too, without our committing
                  any crime," said Mrs. Smithers.
               
               "Crime!" echoed the husband; "on the contrary, we did our neighbor the greatest
                  possible service." And Smithers appeared as though he believed (and, perhaps, by
                  dint of perseverance it was so), that he had acted nobly.
               "But," added the wife, coloring a little, but not looking up from her tea, "if
                  that is true which has been hinted at to me by my sister and some of our
                  neighbors, you are glad, too, that Mrs. Wellington's son is dead."
               "Hush, for God's sake!" said Mr. Smithers, in an earnest whisper across the
                  table.
               "For," continued the wife, sure that no one could hear, her, "if he was really
                  your son he might have come in, eventually, for a large share of your
                  property."
               ''T is false!" exclaimed Smithers, enraged at his wife's persisting in her story;
                  "and if you ever repeat those words again, I'll make you rue it."
               "You would not get so angry," said the wife, laughing, "were it not
                     true."
               "'T is false as hell!" exclaimed Smithers again. "The lying wench made "up
                  that—"
               "Beware!" said a low voice behind him, ere he could finish the sentence.
               "But 't is no matter—I won't be angry about it, for it has no truth in it,"
                  continued Smithers, in a changed and subdued tone.
               "But had I not been prudent," said the wife, straightening up, "and cautioned them
                  not to let out such a story, the whole town would have rang with it, and our
                  respectability gone like Mrs. Jones's. How do you suppose the story
                  originated?"
               "Probably from some person like you," replied the tormented husband; "some one who
                  continually talks about that of which they know nothing."
               "Thank you," said Mrs. Smithers, pertly.
               "Charles!" exclaimed Smithers, "go and fetch me the newspaper."
               When the man had disappeared, Smithers told his wife it was very imprudent to talk
                  of such private matters—family affairs—before servants, as they always remembered
                  and told everything they heard; enlarged, distorted it, till a mouse became a
                  monster, a marriage-vow a whole brood of babies.
               Mrs. Smithers was willing to admit there might be some truth in what he said, yet,
                  in this instance, she thought there could be no harm in joking about an idle
                  rumor.
               Mr. Smithers entreated Mrs. Smithers never to mention, in presence of the
                  servants, any such subject as lately discussed, and received a promise, after she
                  had been told that it did not argue respectability.
               Charles Wellington had now received a new proof of his father's, rascality, of his
                  worthless assertions—a new impulse to pursue steadily, till accomplished, the one
                  great design of his heart, originating in his mother's sacrifice. But as yet he
                  had found no clue to the place where the papers were deposited, nor did he know to
                  what Mrs. Smithers referred when she spoke of the great service Mrs. Wellington
                  had, done them, or in what way property had come into their hands by her
                  shrewdness.
               "My mother," Charles would say to himself, "became an outcast to make this villain
                  happy, and yet, he is glad she is dead. She gave to him wealth, he admits,—and yet makes her son—aye, his own son—his
                  slave. God could not have intended that such men should always prosper, and I will
                  believe that He will make me an instrument in humbling him, in destroying his
                  reputation for respectability, in bringing him to poverty, and to misery, like my
                  mother's.
               In pursuance of his resolves, Wellington listened to every word uttered by his
                  master and mistress, in hopes to get information respecting Bolaro's papers.
                  Sometimes he supposed they were in the bank, then, that they had been transferred
                  for other property. He watched Smithers wherever he went,—watched him through
                  key-holes, through cracks, through windows,—and two years passed before he began
                  to think that he had a clue to the Deposit. He knew that Smithers would not keep
                  them in his counting-room safe, as others had access to it, and he had himself,
                  with Smithers's keys, one night examined it. If they were in his private drawers,
                  they could be easily stolen, as he knew from having, on more than one "occasion,
                  picked every lock in his master's keeping.
               Late one night, Smithers ordered into his study some, flour paste. Charles was the
                  one to obey the summons, but he saw nothing on which he supposed paste was to be
                  used, except a piece of figured paper like that on the wall. This would have
                  excited little: attention, had there not lain near it a curious key, which he had
                  often seen in the escritoir, without knowing to what it belonged. Now the idea
                  struck him, that these two things had something to do with each other, and had
                  Some connection with the precious documents he was in search of; and he resolved
                  to ascertain.
               On the following morning, when Smithers had gone to his counting-room, Wellington
                  hastened to the study (where his thoughts had rested uninterruptedly), and sought
                  eagerly for the trifle which had so much interested him the previous night, but it
                  was not to be found. He cast his eyes about him in every direction, but nothing
                  appeared awry. Passing his hand, however, over the wall, he encountered, between
                  the escritoir and the window, the edges of a piece of paper of the form of that he
                  was seeking, and a coolness and moisture about it not to be mistaken. Search was
                  now at an end. In an instant the paper was torn off—revealing the face of a strong
                  iron box, with a key-hole that told of the key to fit it—and in less than five
                  minutes, Charles Wellington had transferred to his pockets the contents there
                  concealed, re-locked the door, re-pasted the paper from the dish which still stood
                  on the desk, ascended to his own apartment, and fastened himself in alone.
               "Well am I paid for my cringing service," said the young man, as he unrolled the
                  titles to Bolaro's property, (including the Val de Mazzara,) and other papers of
                  no value to any one but Smithers himself, but to him of inestimable value. "These
                  last," said he, "I'll put into the fire, and the others I will restore to Saffi;
                  my own adored Saffi." In a few moments the former were ashes, and the latter sewed
                  up in the linings of his boots.
               That day, Smithers returned early from business, and was much depressed in
                  spirits. "I have," said he to his wife, "a very strange presentiment that
                  something remarkable and even dreadful is going to happen to us. Every moment of this day, there has been a
                  whispering in my ear the prophecies of ruin."
               "That is foolish," responded his wife, "for we have now beached such a respectable
                  position in society, that nothing can disturb, much less overthrow us."
               "Not even an earthquake, rolling under our very feet, I suppose?" was Smithers's
                  sarcastic reply.
               "No, for it would not be dignified; and a lack of dignity shows lack of
                  respectability," answered Mrs. Smithers, at the same time straightening tip in her
                  peculiar way, with intent to illustrate her profound remarks.—Smithers was not
                  calmed by her sophistry. He proceeded to his Study to examine the state of things,
                  and finding the moisture on the wall greater than he anticipated, was induced to
                  make further investigations.
               If the key-stone of the great arch of heaven had fallen at his feet, and the
                  scroll of Time had stopped its unfoldings, John Knox Calvin Smithers could not
                  have been more dismayed. Death rapped on his ossifying heart, but the hour of
                  retribution was not yet come to him. With a frightful howl he leaped from the
                  apartment, and flying from room to room, as though pursued by some fiend or
                  following some phantom in the air, fell at last on the marble pavement,
                  insensible. Hours of stupor followed, which were succeeded by sleep. The next
                  morning found him more composed, but with a consciousness that he had passed
                  through a terrific scene. Sensible, too, of his ruined position in view of his
                  loss, and, as if aware that he had been culpably inactive, he went at once for the
                  police, had his servant arrested and sent to prison. Search was made for the
                  missing documents in every nook, crevice, every, chimney, under every floor,
                  behind walls and ceilings, but nothing came to, light to disprove the assertions
                  of Charles Wellington, that, he was innocent. After having kept the boy in prison
                  for a long time, without being able to make anything out of it, Smithers ordered
                  his liberation, and took him again into his family. Charles Wellington understood
                  the policy of Smithers, and was accordingly circumspect. He knew that his master
                  acted "thus benevolently, in hopes to discover by his movements some trace of the
                  lost documents; but he went quietly and unconcernedly to work, and never, by night
                  or day, allowed himself ever to regard his treasure house with any particular
                  interest.
               After a few months more were joined to the past, Smithers, having somewhat allayed
                  his suspicions, started for Glasgow, to attend the funeral of his departed sister,
                  It was a glorious opportunity for Wellington, and he availed himself of it. He
                  went to the Sardinian Consul's, and obtained his passport, and the following day
                  found him on board a Genoese vessel, bound for the land of his Saffi.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               
                  
                     
                        O, beautiful Gene! thou City of Song!
                        What charms to thy vales, to thy mountains belong;
                        What dear recollections, what love thrills my soul,
                        When I read thy fair name on Fama's proud scroll;
                        When adown thy bold Alps and o'er thy strong walls,
                        Soft twilight comes bathing thy bright frescoed halls;
                        When I wander in thought o'er thy vine-clad hills,
                        And sleep 'mid the music of rose-crested rills.
                        In thy perfumes and songs I revelled a year—
                        No home to my heart will again be so dear.
                     
                     
                        Beautiful Gene! la superba to me!
                        Gem of Liguria, and fabled blue sea!
                        Oft visit my fancy with all that was dear—
                        Come with the strains of thine ave
                              Maria;
                        
                        Let thy bells chime again, and music and prayer,
                        Fill full the fond soul and the rose-tinted air.
                        From convent and villa—from spirits that grieve,
                        Goes the incense of Love—'tis Italy's eve!
                        Fair Italy's eve! how hallowed the scene,
                        The panting heart rests, the sad soul is serene.
                        Fair Italy! Gene's thy loveliest bride—
                        I'll dream of my home there, whate'er may betide.
                     
                  
               
               THE voyage to Italy, though quick as regarded time, was tediously long to the
                  impatient youth—his heart outstripping, in its speed, the swiftest messenger that
                  ever flew.
               On arriving at Genoa, Wellington hastened to the Besagno and up the Val de
                  Mazzara, till the cottage of his loved Saffi caught his far-forward gaze; but then
                  he could proceed no farther. A sudden faintness seized him, his respiration was
                  difficult, his limbs trembled, and he leaned against a rock for support. Moments
                  or hours had vanished—he knew not how many—when a sweet voice came down the glen,
                  and sent into his soul a new life. A new life it was, indeed, and he now rushed
                  onward till the form of his heart's idol stood before him. Here he stopped again;
                  but it was to prolong his happiness, or from a fear that the fair object might
                  vanish at his unheralded approach.
               Will not every ardent lover at once exclaim, "Could he be so near her and she have
                  no intuitive consciousness of it?" The fact is, she was playing with the very lamb
                  her Charles had so kindly saved for her; and at the very moment he was gazing on
                  her, she had put her arms around the neck of her pet, to give expression to the
                  feeling of love for her absent one then crowding her heart. No sooner, however,
                  was his footstep heard, than she sprang towards him, and as he folded her to his
                  bosom she laid her head upon his shoulder, and wept for joy. If she was happy, the
                  lamb appeared no less so. It was evident she had not forgotten her preserver, and
                  skipping along the path with her mistress, she put her feet upon the young man,
                  and with a look of joy said all she could and waited to have her gratitude and her
                  remembrance recognized by caresses.
               "You are, then, still mine?" asked Charles, with a tremulous voice.
               "All, all yours," said Saffi, looking up into his happy face.
               
               "Oh! I so feared you would doubt me and would wed another. I was gone so long a
                  time that my heart has nearly broken."
               "No, no, dear Carlo," said Saffi, "we Italians, if we really love, love always,
                  and always wildly and fondly. But come, sit you here awhile, where I can see my
                  flock, and then tell me all you have suffered.
               "Still I was filled with distrust. Perhaps it was because, having been bad myself,
                  I doubted all others," resumed Charles.
               "You could never have been bad. One of so good a heart cannot do a
                  bad act," responded Saffi.
               "I have done many a bad act," replied the lover, as he seated himself beside his
                  idol. "I have taken that which was not mine."
               "Necessity may have made you do many things, dear Carlo, which, had you the means
                  of avoiding, your heart would not have let you do," resumed the girl.
               "That is true, sweet Saffi," replied Charles; "and I thank you for
                  showing me how I can think of my past life without abhorrence."
               "Did you ever look on a suffering fellow creature, and not at once try and relieve
                  him?"
               "Never!"
               "And have you not seen hundreds of the rich and so called noble, turn from the
                  distressed without the slightest shadow of pity, yet say they are
                     better than you, because they never stole?"
               "Such are called better," replied Charles, sadly.
               "But I know," continued Saffi, "that Heaven does not smile the more
                  upon them; for if they avoided a slight sin of commission forced upon others by a
                  hard fate, they will have to answer the vastly greater sin of omission their own
                  selfish and hard hearts sustained them in, when God gave them, with an open hand,
                  the means of doing otherwise."
               "Only an angel—only a good angel—could have spoken thus!" said
                  Charles; "and if you will but be mine, I know by your own goodness you will enable
                  me to repay the world for all it has suffered by me," and he bathed with tears and
                  kisses the warm little hand that was allowed to remain in his.
               "Dear Carlo, that day you gave me back my lamb I was sacredly yours, and would
                  have died before I would have wronged you."
               "But if you should become suddenly rich, would you not spurn so rough and rude a
                  specimen of mankind?" interrogated Charles, trembling with emotion.
               "Your eyes reveal to me a beauty and truth within, at which alone I look," said
                  Saffi. "You are good at heart, and next to my God, I will ever love you."
               "Yourself all truth and beauty, think all the world so. But I will believe you,
                  and now tell you that I have brought documents left by your uncle, which will make
                  you owner of all this vast valley, and perhaps much other valuable property," and
                  he drew off his boots, and with his knife soon revealed the treasures he had so
                  long carried there safely concealed.
               Saffi perused the papers with intense interest, but could not fully comprehend
                  them, as she did not know, or rather could hardly believe, that the "dear child"
                  often mentioned therein was herself. Again, the idea of being wealthy—of being
                  obliged to leave her own little valley-home home, to be merged in the great vortex of the world
                  of fashion—was startling, and far from inviting.
               "My own dear Carlo," said Saffi, returning, with trembling hands, the strange
                  writings, "I read in these nothing but lines of sorrow; or if I see in them a ray
                  of light, it seems peering through the far-off uncertain aperture of a dark and
                  dismal cavern, thought which every step is beset with frightful pitfalls. Take
                  these documents and destroy them, for if they are found upon you, to whom they do
                  not belong, you will be imprisoned, and perhaps suffer death, (O, dear Carlo, do
                  not let so dreadful a vision ever come to me again!) for theft, robbery, or
                  murder. You may have thought yourself justified in procuring them, yet after all
                  they may have been justly and legally held by the person from whom you took
                  them."
               "No, no! can you still think me vile!" interrupted Charles, throwing himself upon
                  his knees, while the big tears stole down his cheeks; "I—"
               "Do not frighten me, dear Carlo, by your earnestness," said Saffi, intreatingly;
                  "and please let me finish with my reasons for the request I make, before you reply
                  to me, and then your answer will be a grateful one, because you will comprehend
                  me."
               "Say on, sweet angel! I feel that heaven approves of this my last act, if of no
                  other," said laying his head in the lap of his Saffi, Charles listened in sad
                  silence.
               "I have said," continued the girl, "I am not by nature fitted for a gay and
                  fashionable career; and that it would kill me to have it thought possible that you
                  could be found guilty of a crime. Now let me tell you of another incentive tive to
                  my desire to have you destroy those documents. For the two long years that you
                  have been absent I have reared in my imagination the little cottage we were to
                  inhabit, and daily planted around it sweet and precious plants, which I have
                  watered with my tears, and thus made them too sacred to be torn up or left uncared
                  for. Here in this valley, within sound of my dear mother's voice, I was to have my
                  home. You were to aid my father, and finally take charge of his flocks as he grows
                  old, and be my only, my priceless treasure; while I was to be the lone 'lily of
                  the valley' that was ceaselessly to intoxicate you by its purity and perfume. The
                  woods and the rocks were to echo our morning and evening prayers to the Virgin,
                  and the wild birds take up our songs of love and cover these hills with melody.
                  Beside me, as I have loved you so have I hoped there would grow a little perfect
                  image of my stalwart lord, and every year add such joys to our wedded life that at
                  last our garden would be full of memory's brightest flowers. Such, such, dear
                  Carlo, has been my fancy's place of abode, and thus for two long years have I
                  peopled and adorned it; and oh! if you love me, shut your eyes to that fictitious
                  glare of light with which wealth now dazzles you, and here, amid the grandeur and
                  artlessness of nature, live for her who so fondly loves you," and she twined her
                  arms frantically about his neck, and in the ardor and sincerity of her soul sealed
                  with her lips upon his burning brow every word she uttered.
               "If, dearest Saffi," said Charles, as he rose and seated himself again by her
                  side, "you can conceive with what joy the weary and home-sick mariner returns to
                  port after a long and boisterous voyage, and how shipwreck and tempest pest, and frightful perils are all
                  forgotten in the embrace of friends, then you may know how that I should feel, if
                  after all my wanderings and sufferings I could make this my haven of rest, and
                  have a home such as you have just pictured to me; but ah! it cannot be. Were I to
                  destroy these papers, I should confirm your impression of the badness of my
                  conduct. Were I to destroy these papers I should rob those of wealth who heaven
                  designed should have it, and who heaven made worthy of it. Above all, if I should
                  destroy those priceless writings, I should fail to keep my sacred word pledged to
                  my poor mother; I should fail in my duty to her, in my respect for her memory;
                  for, through many a long year of poverty and wretchedness, this very hour of
                  triumph which approaches, sustained her."
               "Do you then love her so much more than you do me?" asked Saffi, despondingly.
               "I cannot now answer that question," replied Charles, with equal despondency, "for
                  it involves more than any words I am able at present to embody, can respond to.
                  Time, time, dear Saffi, will solve it all; and then, appreciated as I desire to
                  be, I can freely give my hand where my heart already is; while I shall be
                  acknowledged as your benefactor, and just to all. Till that day I will keep the
                  writings concealed, at least, will not destroy them—and await patiently the issue.
                  But see—your father comes."
               "Yes, yes, Carlo, and we must join him now, for you see our little flock crop the
                  grass homeward."
               The hearts of both Charles and Saffi were now heavy indeed. Charles Wellington
                  could not, or rather feared, under the circumstances, to explain all he knew in
                  relation to the documents—convinced, too, that his triumph would be greater by
                  delay; while, Saffi could not consent to live a life of luxury, or even of ease
                  and comfort, with money not righteously obtained.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               AGAIN the divine Fanny was to appear on the Terpsichorean boards. An hour after
                  her arrival in the capital almost every person of note had been apprised of it,
                  and when it was known that the imperial family would grace the house in honor of
                  her return, the nobility and all the elite of
                  Vienna hastened to secure an entrée.
               
               "How splendid! How brilliant! How magnificent!" were the expressions heard in
                  every part of the house. Few can imagine the gorgeous appearance of monarchical
                  theatres when crowned heads appear, and the court and camp send in their numerous
                  representatives, almost burdened with trappings and decorations of honor. On this
                  occasion every box glittered with gold and diamonds, and when the emperor and
                  empress entered, the whole house rose. Soon after, the curtain went up, and the
                  divine Fanny, like a thing of air, descended upon the stage.
               If an angel had winged itself down from heaven,—if a beautiful fawn had leaped
                  from the summit of a cloud-girt rock and alighted unharmed before the people, no
                  greater thrill of delight could have animated them. Men who were ready to shout,
                  stopped and held their breath as if entranced; women who would ordinarily have
                  uttered exclamations of rapture, felt faint and were, silent; children, overcome
                  by this embodiment of divinity, hid their heads beneath the shawls and coats of
                  their parents.
               The gaze of the danseuse was turned towards the
                  imperial box, where a youth of princely bearing was seen to rise, as if
                  recognizing and welcoming the gentle salutation. The empress, highly gratified,
                  nodded her head to the fairy, who proceeded in the execution of la Cachucha with such surprising grace and power that,
                  when the curtain fell, the audience remained immoveable, as if fearing to break
                  the spell and recall themselves to the calm realities of life. A moment after,
                  however, there went up, as a relief to the almost painful quiet, a loud shout—and
                  arch and dome rang to the encore! encore!
               
               The worshiped creature could not resist the appeal, and when she re-appeared the
                  whole house again rose to greet her. Her triumph was complete—fully so in the
                  imperial box, where it was of most importance.
               "She is indeed captivating," said the emperor.
               "She is enchanting, Sire," said the young duke.
               "More enchanting still," said the empress, "when her sweet voice adds its music to
                  her other charms."
               "I would give the world to know her!" exclaimed the youth.
               "She shall be, to-morrow evening, at Schonbrunn, where you can enjoy her society,"
                  said the emperor.
               "May it not be to-night, Sire?" asked Reichstadt.
               "If it would much gratify you, my fiery duke, it shall be even
                  to-night," replied the emperor; "and I will send instant invitation to her, to
                  accompany us in our own carriage."
               
               "You are too kind, Sire; yet I confess that it would make me very happy, as she
                  surpasses in beauty and grace all that has been told me by the empress."
               "Ah!" said the wily Charlotte, "I thought it would be so, and therefore did not
                  speak so highly of her as I might, lest you should really fall in love with
                  her."
               "And why not fall in love with her?" asked the duke, with much simplicity. "She is
                  all that one could wish, to make him happy; at least when not more occupied than I
                  am at present."
               "You speak truly," said the empress.
               "If, like my father," said Reichstadt, "I had an empire, or the army of Italy or
                  Egypt to look after and lead to victories, I might not find time to enjoy the
                  fruits of this Eden."
               "And which life would suit you best?" asked the emperor quickly, and eyeing him
                  sharply.
               "The camp, Sire—the camp; for the war-spirit which hovers about an army has power
                  to fill every soul with joy and the world with wonder."
               "Yes, but the spirit of Peace, my young hero, bestows more permanent happiness,"
                  replied the emperor, giving to his consort, at the same time, a significant look,
                  which went to say, "You see the temper that is to be subdued, and which our prison
                  discipline does not effect."
               Having been informed of the emperor's wish, the fair danseuse was in readiness when the carriage stopped at the private
                  door of the theatre. She did not yet know how perfect her conquest had been, but
                  she was soon to learn; for Reichstadt, with all the impetuosity of youth, without
                  waiting for the steps to be let down, sprang out to assist her —in no ways
                  concealing the happiness he felt in having the privilege of touching the delicate
                  hand that was destined to keep (perhaps) a sceptre from his brow, and, while
                  binding about his temples a laurel wreath, fix in his heart the opiate of an
                  aimless destiny, and sensuous Phœnix-like desires.
               The imperial family proceeded towards Schonbrunn. The young duke sat beside the
                  enchantress, who each moment won her way more deeply into his affections, by a
                  half courtly, half abandon manner, aided by
                  dress, which was ever with her the ne plus ultra
                  of good taste and elegant revealings. Her arms were bare, and one of them, more
                  beautiful than if modelled in alabaster, lay on her dark velvet mantle. Reichstadt
                  coveted the snowy treasure, and had he been alone with its possessor, would have
                  prayed to imprint on it some of the warmest of kisses: he now only sought to bring
                  his hand to rest against it,—which he did by a careless arrangement of his cloak.
                  Heaven seemed at once to have come down to him, and if his soul had been touched
                  with a live coal from the altar of passion, it could not have burned with greater
                  vehemence. His movements, however, were apparently unnoticed by the worshipped
                  one, who was gazing out of the opposite window, while the emperor and empress,
                  mistrusting the sentiments of their grand-child, did not interrupt him. Elated and
                  emboldened, the youth proceeded to obtain the now neighboring hand, which, like
                  the softest velvet, yielded to his touch. In a few moments, beneath the folds of
                  the aforesaid mantle, his fingers were twined with others which returned, by
                  almost imperceptible contractions, the wild and passionate pressure he constantly
                  gave them.
               
               If the young Duke de Reichstadt had loved the divine Fanny when gazing on her in
                  the exciting and bewildering evolutions of the dance, he was now trebly involved,
                  and if she had, at the moment we speak of, asked him for all he possessed or
                  expected to inherit, he would have bestowed them with the utmost cheerfulness to
                  win the gentle creature to himself.
               Though the youth was overwhelmed with the felicite
                     parfaite of his position, he soon recollected that there were others
                  present besides his inamorata, and in order to
                  avoid the awkwardness of longer silence, said—"What did you observe, Sire?"
               "That happiness often makes us forgetful of our duties," responded the
                  emperor.
               "It is indeed so, Sire; and I fear that in the quiet and unburdened hours of joy
                  you so constantly afford me, I am too unmindful of my indebtedness."
               "Not so, my child. We have no greater happiness than to make you happy; and though
                  our maturer judgment may sometime dictate for you a course that may not at first
                  appear to your youthful mind either important or necessary, be assured our
                  ulterior designs will meet with your later commendation."
               "Just as the emperor says," interrupted the empress; "and a proof of our desire to
                  keep your mind in a healthful and cheerful state, we have this evening prayed
                  Mademoiselle Fanny to accompany us to Schonbrunn, and be, for some days, our
                  guest."
               "I am but too highly honored," replied the danseuse.
               
               "Court circles, like all others, become wearisome, and it is a beneficent
                  Providence which occasionally sends to us some charming bird of passage like
                  yourself, to relieve us of the ennui of it,"
                  said Charlotte.
               "Spare me, kind empress, I pray you," said the youthful divinity, who, turning her
                  head, saw that the duke was gazing at her with an expression of the deepest
                  adoration, while the flush on his cheeks, his clear, smooth forehead, his
                  beautifully-arched eyebrows, his classic mouth—now just sufficiently parted to
                  reveal his pure pearls of teeth—rendered him so truly beautiful, that her own
                  heart, by its wild and sudden beatings, confessed its new interest, and her warm
                  open hand, now pressing fondly against the one that still enslaved it, gave token
                  of.
               Oh, Love! Love! The boon kind heaven has vouchsafed to mortals as the foretaste of
                  Paradise! What would the wide world be without thee! Thou art the Divine
                  electricity of the higher atmosphere which girds the great temple of the universe
                  in which we worship; and on those who seek thee in purity of heart thou dost
                  descend, as did that from the clouds courted by our great philosopher! Thou art
                  the source of all good and all happiness, and those who approach nearest to God
                  are the most permeated by thee!
               Though the young duke had had a world of thought and feeling, when the carriage
                  drove in the great court in front of the palace, it appeared but a moment since he
                  left the theatre with his cara amica. He wished
                  much to prolong the ride, for he knew not what opportunity might be offered to him
                  again for clasping those little hands in his. If he had mistrusted the real
                  motives for which the danseuse had been brought
                  to Schonbrunn, he would not have heaved the sigh he did; but having been
                     literally shut up from the world,
                  guarded as the wild cub of a ferocious lion, the silken snare that was laid for
                  him was as far from his conceptions as the end of eternity. Had he visions?—they
                  were all of one single form and image—though in numbers countless, in beauty
                  unearthly—angels who, like those on Jacob's ladder, descended and ascended
                  continually, forming a seraphic union with his heaven.
               Soon after arriving, they sat down to a magnificent supper; but the youth's
                  appetite had gone. He evidently saw nothing on the table that pleased him, till it
                  was made servicable to his Fanny. When the hour of retiring came, the empress
                  announced to her guest, that the suite of apartments allotted to her were between
                  her own and that of her grandchild, (at the same time hinting that the young
                  gallant could have no objections to the proximity of an angel,) who, by her
                  command (expressed with the blandest smile), would show them to her.
               The duke, now left alone with the charmer, proffered at once, and deferentially,
                  his services to fulfil the mandate of his august mother; and there is little doubt
                  that he executed his task in a most acceptable manner, though with such a wild
                  throbbing of heart, the hardly remembered whether he was talking or walking, or
                  neither or both. On reaching the bed-chamber, he bade "the angel" a most
                  respectful good night, and passed directly on to his own apartment.
               We will not attempt to describe the feelings of Reichstadt, when he heard the door
                  which he had just closed behind him, fastened on the inner side.
               "She distrusts my honor," said the duke, in a tone of real sorrow. "She has
                  fastened the door upon me, as though she feared that I would not respect the
                  sanctity of her private apartments. Ah! how little does she yet know of me! She
                  might throw open her doors, and I would indeed love to watch her while she slept,
                  to see that no harm came to her. I would indeed love to bend so near those ruby
                  lips that I could catch their every breath; but I would rather die than give to
                  any of her dreams one tinge of sorrow."
               The danseuse loved the youth, yet she had a
                  mission to fulfil, and she was well aware, that to be too easily won, was to
                  resign half the charm of conquest, and half the power to retain her victim. Her
                  locking the door had the effect she intended. She knew that if he partook of the
                  character of his father, the greater the obstacles the more determined he would be
                  in his resolves to overcome them. She knew if she distrusted him, he would take
                  the greater pains to prove his sincerity. But let us leave them falling asleep in
                  thoughts of each others.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               WHAT Mrs. Smithers had said about il Signor Alfierdermo, did not fail to have, in
                  part, the desired effect, though Aluine strove, with all her soul's strength, to
                  drive every word of it out of her memory. If her confidence in him had been
                     entirely overthrown, her reason would have gone with it; but her
                  nature was confiding, and at the bottom of her heart there rested the firm
                  foundation of an unwavering faith death only could palsy.
               What Mrs. Smithers had said was substantiated, in part, by the silence of
                  Alfierdermo, and by what seemed natural; and it came mingling itself with all of
                  the beautiful creature's thoughts, and continually ruffled the surface of that
                  otherwise placid sea of love, where her barque of trust was wont so happily to
                  glide.
               "Perhaps," she would say to herself, "he is not pleased with the course I have
                  pursued; but oh! if he could know what I myself suffer by it, and the sincere love
                  which actuated me and now sustains me in this dreadful trial, he would bless me
                  with every breath he draws. It may be he dislikes me for another reason, but ah!
                  that would be unnatural; it is natural that he should love me more now than when
                  he first knew me. Perhaps—perhaps—he is—false! No, no; God's purest image can not
                  be false!" and, retiring to her private room, she drew out her little delicate and
                  sweetly perfumed note-paper, used only in writing to her lover, and with all that
                  confiding love which so distinguished her, wrote a long epistle. Having sealed it
                  with a heart and a tear, she rang for her maid, who soon made her appearance.
               "Mary, dear, take this to the post."
               "Yes, marm," said Mary.
               "Be sure, Mary, that no one sees it, and that you put it into the box of the post
                  office. Be sure, Mary—that's a good girl—put it in the right box."
               "That I will, 'pon my life, Mrs. Jones," said the servant, courtesying very low,
                  and hastening away with the letter. Ten minutes afterwards, Mrs. Smithers was
                  perusing it, flushed with hate, jealousy, and almost every fiendish sentiment the
                  most foliotish of women could possibly cherish. The letter ran thus:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MY DEAR, MY EVER ADORED FIELLO:—
                           
                           Your long silence almost deprives me of reason. I hear that you are
                              well, and happy with your lawful wife. I hear that your good father is
                              also well; yet you do not come to her whom you have so often called
                              your own Aluine, nor write to her. Have I wronged you in any way? Have
                              I not done as you would have me? Do you doubt me?
                           Dearest Fiello, I do love you, and say so to myself every hour of the
                              day,—and have loved you with an adoration, a worship, a wild, intense
                              passion, your love for me never has, and never can, surpass. I have
                              loved you so, that to look upon you, to dwell upon the beauty of your
                              form and face, was almost a delirium—the intensity of my love and happiness made me feel
                              faint. I have loved you so, that the wildest and most rapturous
                              demonstrations of passion you ever made, seemed cold and tame to the
                              gushing and overwhelming torrent of love that filled my soul. If I
                              should live a million of years, surrounded by the joys of heaven, I
                              could not forget the hours of bliss I have spent with you. And now, I
                              ask myself daily, hourly, in sadness of heart, if these emotions are
                              fled forever.
                           Oh, Fiello! beautiful Fiello! I fear that our love was too sweet.
                              There was too much of poetry, too much of unreal life, to have it
                              last. But I have always had a pride in my love for you, for I felt
                              that it awakened in my soul beautiful thoughts and emotions, that
                              might have slumbered there for ever. I have too always had a pride in
                              my devotion to you—that in spite of my many, many temptations, my
                              heart swerved not; a pride in the consciousness that I did and could
                              love with the devotion and passion of which I had read so much and
                              seen so little. I had a firm conviction, too, that if my love was
                              unholy, its devotion and faith would at last sanctify it.
                           Now that I do not hear from you, dearest Fiello, each day grows longer
                              and longer. My legal protector is ever kind to me, but he comes no
                              nearer to my heart. If he knew how much I suffer, he
                              would doubtless say I merited it, but he would be as far from the
                              truth as he would from understanding me if I should tell him that
                              there is a joy even in my sorrow, and from the same source, which, for
                              an hour, I would not yield, to inherit for ages the negative happiness
                              I have with him.
                           Light of my soul, hear the pleadings of my fond heart, and write to me
                              again, Believe that I am to you all that you would have me be—your
                              own, your ever faithful
                           
                              "ALUINE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "And when he gets this," said Mrs. Smithers, "he will believe all she
                  says—the jade!" and she put the letter into her private escritoir, and turned the key on it.
               When Alfierdermo arrived in Genoa, he found his father convalescent, but still
                  needing his assistance; in fact, business cares had so much increased upon the old
                  man, and his health had become so variable, that his son's duty to remain with him
                  was imperative.
               We will do Alfierdermo the justice to say that he was much affected by the change
                  he noticed in his father, and that he found much happiness in serving him; but the
                  greeting of his wife was so cold—so unlike the wild, free, spontaneous welcome,
                  the warm, guileless heart of Aluine ever prompted her to extend to him, he could
                  not embrace her, and in an instant dropped the hand he had taken, as though it had
                  been the cold folds of an adder.
               Weeks and months passed away, and with the most intense anxiety Alfierdermo waited
                  for answers to his letters which he had written according to promise and
                  agreement. Day by day, at the appointed hour, he was sure to kneel at the throne
                  of grace, where he felt a very strange degree of happiness in a sense that his
                  loved one was kneeling too at the same moment, and breathing with a pure and
                  earnest heart, his name into the ear of Divinity; but when he left
                  the place of prayer his faith turned into distrust, and he were the aspect of a
                     perfect victim of melancholy. When
                  he felt that he could no longer endure her silence, he wrote again:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Aluine, dearest Aluine, most beautiful of earth, may I still call you
                              mine? Alas! I fear I may not; yet if my adoration of your divinity
                              could in its degree entitle me to such a Paradise in this world, you
                              would indeed, belong to no other. I have written to you many letters,
                              but receive no answers. Do you repent of your love? Has any one
                              falsified me to you? I could not endure this silence, if I did not
                              seem to find you and commune with you, each day, as, at the appointed
                              hour, I kneel and pray for you. I should fly to you instantly, if such
                              a thing were in my power; but my father, though well enough to attend
                              to business, distrusts himself, and will not despatch a letter or
                              close an account, till I have examined it. How long this will
                              continue, I know not; however long it does continue, will be time
                              counted by my heart's misery, while a strict sense of duty must
                              confine me to it. Of this, my dear silver dove, I know the goodness of
                              your heart will approve.
                           Now, sweet Lorma, I must bid you adieu; but it is with a fearful
                              throbbing in my bosom that I write it. When my letter is sealed, it
                              seems as though the golden door of our communion was closed upon me,
                              never to be re-opened by your beautiful hands. Hope, however, still
                              lights the horizon beyond, and sending a gleam along the dark ocean of
                              despair which now surrounds me, enables me to write,—Ever ever your
                              faithful
                           
                              FIELLO."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               This letter, like the Italian's preceding ones, fell into the hands of Mrs.
                  Smithers. She read it and placed it in the private drawer where Aluine's, with
                  open folds, welcomed it. But Mrs. Smithers, though perfectly successful in all her
                  schemes, was far from being happy or even satisfied. She would exclaim to herself,
                  as she paced the room, "What unconquerable faith these lovers have in each other!
                  If he was my lover,"—and here she heaved a long sigh—"and he missed a
                  single opportunity to write—if he neglected to answer one single one of my
                  letters, I would never speak or write to him again; but here are two creatures
                  whose confidence in each other I cannot destroy, though their letters are never
                  answered, and they are told, with all the plausibility of circumstances, that
                  there is cause to distrust every plighted vow. It is very strange! I cannot
                  comprehend it. I will not, however desist; and if this scheme fails I have yet
                  another by which I am sure to bring upon her whose beauty has made her my rival,
                  sudden and utter ruin. It is more pleasant to me, however, to see her coil
                     slowly into the fire."
               It is not to be wondered at that Mrs. Smithers did not understand the faith Aluine
                  and Alfierdermo had in each other. It would have been very strange if she had in a
                  moiety comprehended it, for there was really more virtue, truth, goodness, in
                  their love, than in the most pious or devotional act ever performed by this very
                     respectable member of society—this exemplary (as she styled
                  herself) head of the "Ladies' Look-After-Other-People's-Business Association"—this
                  female miasma in the otherwise wholesome and agreeable community.
               
               I have said that Mrs. Smithers preferred seeing her victim coil
                     slowly into the fire, than precipitated at once into the abyss of
                  despair; as the latter would have deprived her Satanic appetite of the very
                  sweetest morsel she daily enjoyed. But when she heard of the death of Mrs.
                  Wellington she was somewhat startled, as she supposed a denouement must at once accrue that would be fatal to the
                  continuance of her designs. She accordingly hastened to know the result, and found
                  that her alarm was premature. Mrs. Jones received the news of Mrs. Wellington's
                  decease with a sudden palor, a slight quivering of the lips, but without any of
                  those wild exclamations with which Mrs. Smithers expected her half-sister would
                  betray her interest in the departed.
               When Mrs. Smithers had poured this new poison into the cup Aluine was now draining
                  in all its cruel bitterness to the very dregs, she turned away from Mrs. Jones's
                  stately mansion with an air of much satisfaction.
               Alone, Aluine contemplated her increasing miseries. When month and month passed,
                  and no letter came from her adored one, she leaned upon the altar of a natural
                  faith; but when years were added to years, and there reached her no sign of
                  remembrance, no souvenir of love, she drooped like the lily when the worm feeds at
                  its roots, and bore striking evidence that her tenure of life was frail indeed,
                  and that at any moment she might be borne away, as the light fleecy clouds, which
                  we sometimes see hanging on a mountain's side, are by the swift wing of the
                  tempest.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               A LONG voyage brought Tzella in sight of the shores of her native land. She
                  greeted them as something very grateful to her eyes, though they did not arouse
                  that enthusiasm, which, even if latent, one would suppose she must naturally have
                  felt. At this time, all noticed that there came rolling in from the North West, a
                  long and very heavy swell of sea, which was a sure sign that in that direction a
                  gale had been blowing; and in a few hours it bore down upon them with terrific
                  force. Every sail that had not been furled was torn into strings,—into some that
                  were well secured the wind caught and twisted them from their gaskets as though
                  they had been fastenings of gauze. The captain at once "up helm," and put the
                  vessel before the storm. A short time scudding brought her to the French coast,
                  from which, having now no sails bent, he could not "work off." He then have the
                  craft to as well as he could, and cut away the masts. But night came, the tempest
                  howled in its saddest and most fearful wildness, and drove them still towards the
                  fatal shore. The watch had neglected their duty, and no one knew the hour; but the
                  ship rolled so in the trough of the sea that it kept the bell constantly tolling,
                  and added to the gloom which overshadowed the helpless. At last the vessel seemed to have received a heavy blow;
                  she reeled, trembled, and groaned at another and another shock;—she had struck and
                  was fast. The sea now made a clean breach over her, and consternation and wild
                  despair seized upon all. The boats were cut away, and every soul, except Tzella
                  and her charge, rushed into them. Tzella would not go without her adopted father,
                  and she could not take him. Only a moment was given her to decide—the boats were
                  off, and probably swamped in the first breaker, for they nor their crews were ever
                  heard of more. Tzella clung to her old friend, whom she had secured by a rope so
                  that he could not be washed away, and with that faith in the goodness of God she
                  had always manifested, she fervently prayed. When morning dawned the vessel was
                  breaking up, but the sea had abated; and when the sun rose, a steamer bore down to
                  the wreck, and with a lifeboat and one of those fearless crews whose noble daring
                  and humane efforts have been the admiration of the world, took the perishing
                  Tzella and her companion and landed them safely at Havre.
               When Tzella parted from her rescuers there was not a dry eye in the crowd that had
                  gathered about her to learn something of her history and gaze on her beauty. She
                  did not appear to think that her own life was worth the saving; but that these
                  good men should have saved her kind, good, old, feetless, adopted father, was what
                  her heart deeply felt, and she threw her arms over their broad, sinewy shoulders,
                  pressed them again and again to her breast, and wept out "God bless! God bless
                  you!"
               Tzella and her companion, having lost in the wreck all the money they possessed,
                  had nothing to offer to their preservers but thanks and tears, yet those bold
                  hearts felt fully paid for the dangers they had run to save the fair girl; and
                  when her eyes streamed with gratitude, they renewed their resolves to be again
                  worthy of such a reward.
               After the sad scene of separation was over, Tzella begged some of the by standers
                  to aid in carrying the cripple from the quay to the street. Her desire was readily
                  complied with. When once in the crowded thoroughfares, the poor girl felt certain
                  that every one who saw the helpless state of her companion would administer to his
                  necessities liberally and cheerfully. But alas! how bitter was her disappointment.
                  She held out her slender hand to one who, neither regarding the beauty of the
                  suppliant nor the object for which charity was asked, struck it rudely with his
                  cane. Would to God his own heart could have bled for a moment as her's did! Her
                  voice after that lost its confidence, and she approached each one with a tremulous
                  accent and faltering step. These, of course, were supposed to be assumed as the
                  trick of a beggar, and from the next passer she received a fearful frown, from
                  another a harsh non; while a third stepped off
                  of the walk to avoid her. At last, wearied out in body and with a grief no longer
                  supportable, she turned for consolation to her companion—sat down beside him on
                  the dirty walk, with an agony the desolate only can know. But the comfort she
                  sought was not there. The fatigues of the voyage, exposure, and want of food, had
                  much reduced the old man; and now spasmodic pains, that proceeded from the
                  amputated limbs to his stomach, seized him, his face became purple, and he looked
                  like one about to give up the ghost. Tzella was so frightened, she no longer thought of herself, and
                  springing up, ran with the utmost speed along the street to find a physician. A
                  sign which indicated the residence of a médecin,
                  caught her eye, and she rang the bell; but the servant, supposing her to be a
                  beggar as she could not in a moment explain her wants, closed the door upon her.
                  Again she hurried on, but no one listened to her—no one cared for her; and she was
                  forced to return. But oh! what would she not have given could she have brought
                  relief to her suffering friend! A fountain was near—she ran and brought water in
                  her hands and gave him to drink; it was all she could do.
               Night, cold and cheerless, was upon them. Tzella assisted the old man into a
                  corner beside a large stone post, and by her exertions, chafing his hands and his
                  feverish forehead, kept herself warm. But when the light came and she could look
                  into the face of the cripple, she felt certain his days were numbered.
               Another day and another night of biting want passed away, and when the sun rose on
                  the third morning it found the kind Tzella bathing the brow of a corpse. The
                  police came and took the body away. There was one mourner who followed it, such an
                  one as all might covet at such a time. She followed it, but as one whose thoughts
                  were not of this world. She staid by it till it was lowered into its narrow
                  house;—then there burst upon her the startling reality that on the face of the
                  great earth she stood alone; and, as one bereft of reason, was pitied and led away
                  by a humane official.
               A little nourishment and attention revived the fair stranger; and, as soon as she
                  was able to give an account of herself, was permitted to go abroad again as one
                  capable of earning her own living.
               Tzella felt that she was indeed alone. If her Cuban preserver had lived to speak
                  comfort to her, she could have endured every species of hardship and privation;
                  but now, without father, mother, or friend, she was indeed like the lamb who went
                  astray in the mountains—without a bed, save the cold earth; without a canopy, save
                  the blue arch of heaven; without a guide, save her own ignorance; without a
                  protector, save her own innocence.
               Tzella wandered about the streets, and seeing a girl of her own age sitting on the
                  steps of a hotel eating some bread and olives, asked her to share them with her,
                  as she was hungry. The young creature thus appealed to, having a heart, gave the
                  suppliant all that remained of her food. This so pleased the recipient that she
                  tried to think of some means of repaying her. She looked at her own scanty
                  costume, but did not discover anything she could part with but the handkerchief
                  pinned about her throat. This trifle she immediately took off and presented to the
                  sister of want, leaving the whitest and loveliest of shoulders exposed to the
                  bright day.
               Tzella, however, was unconscious, or perhaps heedless, of any one of the thousand
                  charms around which her mass of uncombed hair and beggar's garb threw an almost
                  impenetrable shield; she only acted on the impulses of a benevolent disposition,
                  and could not rest satisfied till, by some act or other, she had won the
                  friendship and esteem of her generous companion in poverty. A new idea now struck
                  her;—it was to teach the girl some Spanish dances by which they both could get
                  their living, from their united exhibitions,—and she at once proposed it. Nothing
                  could have been more acceptable; so Tzella, leading her from the public trottoir into the court-yard of the hotel, began, with her native grace, to show
                  the quality of the accomplishment to which she referred. When she had finished the
                  first bolero, a large silver coin fell at her
                  feet, and then another and another. Astonished, she looked up, and seeing on the
                  balcony numerous young gentlemen, who seemed overwhelmed with admiration, she left
                  the money and fled to the street. But what next? Remembering her necessities, she
                  turned back, and having picked up the pieces and divided them with her new friend,
                  was about hastening away, when one of the donors who had descended to the pavé, familiarly accosted her.
               "Jo No hablo bueno Francesa," said Tzella,
                  blushing.
               "Ah! Vs. es Espanol," said the young man,
                  speaking in Spanish.
               "No, Senor, I am English," replied Tzella.
               "English! I cannot believe you are of my country," said the stranger.
               "I am, sir, English, but have long been in a Spanish country, and know something
                  of its language," responded the fair girl.
               "I could hardly believe it," replied the Englishman, "did I not hear it from your
                  own sweet lips (Tzella hung down her head, as if to look at her little feet then
                  patting the pavement); for those large, languishing eyes, that luxurious raven
                  hair, belongs not to our climate—though the transcendantly delicate skin of which
                  you can boast, and which will carry for you the palm of beauty through the world,
                  lays better claim to a northern atmosphere."
               "You are very kind, sir," said Tzella, trembling, "and I thank you for your
                  generous gifts, for I am poor; but please, sir, do not attempt to flatter me—I do
                  not like it."
               "Indeed, beautiful girl, if my life were the forfeit of falsity, I still would say
                  that you are lovely," continued the stranger. "If you deny it, it is because you
                  have not seen yourself as I see you. Your form is perfect, and your expression—the
                  soul—is of heaven. Who is your companion?"
               "I do not know; but she gave me bread, and so I love her," answered Tzella.
               "Are you indeed so poor, while I am throwing away thousands of dollars for
                  nothing? Have you no friends nor relatives?"
               "None."
               "And if I would pledge my word to act honorably towards you, will you accept of
                  proper clothing and foo at my hands?"
               "I do not know, sir," and Tzella's voice was faint, for she really knew not what
                  she ought to do, or to whom she spoke.
               "You do not know! Do you prefer to beg in the streets, to receiving aid from one
                  of your own countrymen? I will, as I have assured you, act honorably; will
                  immediately procure you suitable costume, and will then seek for you a place on
                  the stage, where, by your grace—your innumerable personal charms—you can win both
                  wealth and fame."
               "You speak kindly, good sir, and'if you will not think badly of me I will accept
                  your offer, but only on the condition that if I have ever the means to repay you,
                  you shall receive back all I may now cost you."
               "If that is the only condition, I accept it readily; and now let us go at once to
                  the dress-maker's and procure such clothing as you require."
               
               Tzella, with some sadness, parted with her female friend, and following, at a
                  respectful distance, the young Englishman, reached a French shop, where the
                  exquisite taste displayed in every article filled her with delight.
               Behind a curtain, in the back part of the room, Tzella was newly attired, her hair
                  arranged, and a jaunty little hat, that became her exceedingly, fitted to her
                  head. In half an hour she appeared in the street arm in arm with her friend, who
                  was astonished at the sensation her beauty created. Arrived again at the hotel; he
                  procured for her a neat apartment, and requested if the servants to pay particular
                  attention to her.
               When left alone, Tzella's first desire appeared to be repose—repose of body and
                  mind; and for two days she begged thus to be permitted to pass her hours. In the
                  meantime, the Englishman had been to the theatre and be spoken a rehearsal for
                  her, and an engagement as a Spanish danseuse,
                  provided she pleased the manager.
               When the two days were passed, and the fair creature had fully recovered, she was
                  informed of the arrangements her friend had made. She confessed the gratitude she
                  felt, but feared lest she should fall far short of his praises. She would do her
                  best, she said, but prayed him to forgive her if she failed.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               TZELLA, for several days, attended rehearsals at the theatre, and by great
                  assiduity, by the utmost attention to all that was told her by the stage manager,
                  succeeded in winning his confidence in her success. The directeure, when he had noticed her peculiar beauty, her inimitable
                  grace, as well as admired the perfect lightness of her step, her little feet and
                  taper ancles—which, he said, would have a most taking effect,—considered that he
                  had obtained a perfect treasure. The trial, however, was to come.
               One would have supposed that the labor which Tzella had done in the mines would
                  have enlarged both her hands and feet, but such was not the case. True to the law
                  of the "aristocracy in nature," they remained charmingly small, while her form was
                  being developed, and her muscles obtaining a vigor and strength astonishingly
                  great.
               To appear before an audience for the first time requires great moral courage, and
                  when the Englishman learned her history, he trembled lest she should utterly fail.
                  Tzella had had the nature of all this explained to her, and though never having
                  tested her fortitude under such strange fortuities, she had an innate sense of a
                  power, a virtue, that, she was certain almost, would sustain her. She remembered
                  her poverty, loneliness, destitution—that on mere charity she was subsisting—and
                  she resolved to be worthy of the
                  confidence reposed in her, and of the generous effort which had been made in her
                  favor.
               On the evening of Tzella's debut, the curtain
                  rose to a full and fashionable house. Moliere's Misanthrope—great
                  and ingenious—had been gone through with, but, by its peculiar denouement, left the audience almost without emotion,
                  and prepared it for the dance—for the dance? yes—for any change; but not for that
                  wonderful, unearthly beauty which stood before it when the curtain again rose.
               Tzella was in an elegant Spanish costume—the stuffe, a delicate pink satin, with trimmings of black lace—which
                  showed off the whiteness of her round shoulders and bust to the greatest
                  advantage. To please her natural modesty, her skirts were a little
                  too short; but then, her limbs were so exquisitely turned, one would have thought
                  her modelled from the Venus de Medicis, and could neither censure nor
                  disapprove—could only admire. She had attired herself before the long mirror in
                  the boudoir of the theatre, and was charmed and
                  astonished at her own perfections. She had dreamed—and she had dreamed
                  rightly—that her mother was of such a mould; but it was the first
                  time she had ever seen herself as she really was, and she came before the house
                  with no more embarrassment than a child feels, when, with a new gown on, she
                  presents herself to her parents.
               Simple, sinless, sans sensualite—now looking on
                  the audience as so many brothers, friends, protectors—she commenced the bolero. If her beauty had charmed the spectators, her
                  grace, the chasteness yet brilliancy of her execution, now raised an enthusiasm
                  that soon became almost frightful. The dance was finished, but the audience were
                  far from surfeited. Encore! Encore! Encore! rang
                  from every part of the house, and the delighted Tzella again appeared, and again
                  won rapturous applause. For the third time she was called out, but, too weary to
                  dance more, looked much gratitude that none were willing to part with
                  her, and, for the fourth time, she appeared, when bouquets, handkerchiefs, rings,
                  and bracelets, fell round her in profusion. Her triumph was wonderful, like her
                  beauty—replete with satisfaction, as her motions were with grace; and, when she
                  retired to the boudoir, the manager embraced her
                  as his child, and thanked her with every mark of sincerity.
               Young Conrad—the Englishman whom we have mentioned as presenting the danseuse at this theatre—was waiting for her with the
                  utmost impatience, for he thought that he now loved her, and was jealous of the
                  pleasure she experienced in the admiration of the audience; and, as he conducted
                  her home, began to talk to her of supporting her himself, and not allowing her to
                  go again on the stage.
               "But," said Tzella, "I must fulfil my engagement with the manager; I
                  like him too, for, when I came from the stage, he spoke to me with the kindness of
                  a father. Oh! there is something in kindness which speaks powerfully
                  to my heart. I do not know the emotions of love, except such as I bore for my good
                  old departed friend; and I feel an innate conviction, that in heaven only there
                  exists the solace my soul daily and hourly cries for."
               "While we are of the earth we should enjoy the pleasures of earth," replied
                  Conrad.
               "What are the pleasures of earth?" asked Tzella.
               
               "They are innumerable;—eating, drinking, sleeping, gaming, the chase, the theatre,
                  &c., &c., and above all—love."
               "The first you mentioned are, I think, what are called sensual, and belong alike
                  to inferior and superior animals. The latter is of God, (so my adopted father told
                  me), and is of so lofty and refined a nature that few can obtain, and none know
                  how to value or enjoy it when permitted to embrace it."
               "If one could embrace you, Tzella," said Conrad—and he drew the young girl's arm
                  closer to his side—"he would possess all there is to be enjoyed in this world
                  pertaining to love."
               "I feel sure, sir, yet I cannot explain why, that what you said last is not true,"
                  replied Tzella,—at which moment, reaching the door of the hotel, she hurried to
                  her chamber.
               "Beautiful! beautiful!" soliloquized Conrad; "and I must possess her. Chaste as
                  Diana now, she is but poor, and will yield to the charms of wealth; cool and
                  spotless like the virgin snow, she will thaw before the order of my passion. I
                  will go at once to her apartment, and though she may chide me for having broken my
                  pledge, I will plead the fervor of my love, and will win her forgiveness;" and he
                  ascended the stairs, ruminating on the nature of an apology, and not "on his word
                  as a man of honor."
               Conrad had mistaken the character of the young danseuse, and when he reached the door of her chamber, found it,
                  much to his, astonishment, fastened. He knocked, but no answer came; he called,
                  but there was no response, Tzella knew the voice, and, trembling with fear and
                  mortification tification, sat, revolving in her mind the course best to be
                  pursued. She had never been taught the modern doctrine of morality, but she had
                  been endowed with such a fine sense of what was proper—such intuitive knowledge of
                  the elements of refinement and good taste—that her spirit rebelled at once at the
                  bare idea of any one's approaching her but with truth on his lips, sincerity in
                  his heart, and gentleness of demeanor—the birth-right of her sex.
               On the following day, Conrad met her at table, and treated her with marked
                  respect—ashamed to refer to his attempts of the preceding night. In the evening he
                  accompanied her to the theatre, returned home with her, talked to her as a sister,
                  and again advanced a little in her confidence; but there was still something in
                  his manner which always disturbed her, and she longed for the time when her
                  engagement would end, and she could escape. The moment at last came. She had
                  performed wonderfully well; the manager had paid her, and tried to re-engage her.
                  She refused all offers, though she expressed her grateful sense of the kindness
                  that had been shown to her, and returning to the hotel, she solicited the presence
                  of Conrad in the public saloon.
               "My dear sir," said Tzella to the young man, "I have this night received my
                  salary, and I now wish, according to agreement, to repay you for the outlay you
                  made for me when I was very destitute;—what was the sum?"
               "Tzella, do not pain me by such a reference to the past—you owe me nothing; or, if
                  you did owe me, I have been trebly paid by your precious company, which I hope
                  never to part with," replied Conrad.
               
               "Do not obliterate that pleasing perception I have of your goodness, I beg of
                  you," said Tzella. "I must pay you, and to-morrow we
                     must part!"
               "Never, Tzella, never," said Conrad, leaning forward and taking her firmly by the
                  hand. "I have given you money, raised you from the filth of the streets, and
                  procured for you both a name and the means of making a fortune, and now you would
                  cast me off like a thing not worthy of your notice. I will not endure it; where
                  you, go I will go, and you shall not escape me."
               "Forgive me, dear sir," said Tzella, bursting into tears; "I did not mean to
                  offend you. As Heaven is my witness, I feel grateful to you; but I feel certain I
                  must do as I have resolved, if I would respect myself."
               "You do not love me then, Tzella," said Conrad, in a changed tone.
               "I cannot love, if I cease to respect," replied Tzella, with calmness.
               The young man flung her hand one side, and seizing his hat passed hastily from the
                  room, muttering to himself—"I'll lay some trap to catch her yet. Everybody will
                  laugh at me when they see that the bird I have so long boasted of a having caged,
                  is well escaped."
               When left alone, Tzella was not a moment in making up her mind. She hurried to her
                  room, and donned her poorest garments; then put her best ones into a bundle,—with
                  all the money she had earned, save a few francs,—and directing it to Conrad, stole
                  from the hotel. "Alone! alone! again in the wide world alone!" cried she, as she
                  found herself at midnight traversing the streets of Havre. But she had resolved to
                  escape, and she now hurried on in hopes to reach, before daylight, some distant
                  village, and thus elude the pursuit of one who was determined to destroy her.
               On the following morning, the package which Tzella had left was handed to the
                  young Englishman. He examined the contents, and understood well what had happened.
                  Too much mortified to remain longer in Havre, he set out for Paris. There, he
                  thought, he might again meet with the beautiful Tzella, or, through the journals,
                  learn of her whereabouts; in which case he would renew the pursuit. He was for
                  some time as unsuccessful as his schemes merited.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXVII.
               WE will not pretend to say what were the dreams of the divine Fanny
                  and the young duke, but the first waking thoughts of the latter were all of the
                  witching danseuse. "I wonder how long she will
                  remain here?" said he to himself; "I forgot to ask her. She favors my advances,
                  yet is coy. She flies from me, even when her bright eyes beckon me to follow; at
                  least such foreshadows itself to me. She must know by my actions, my tell-tale
                  silence in the carriage, that I love her; and if the emperor and empress
                  countenance her visit they cannot think it improper for me to make advances even
                  of a serious nature, though, of course, in marriage they will expect me to be
                  allied with imperial blood. I will at all events, entreat my grandsire to allow
                  her to remain at Schonbrunn—for she is certainly an ornament to any circle however
                  noble, and will make at least my residence here a continual balmy
                  morning. I wonder if she is yet up?" and he looked on to the spacious terrace back
                  of the palace, where she was already enjoying the fragrance of the flowers, and
                  the thousand beauties of art and nature which there charm the sight. "As I live,"
                  he exclaimed, "she is there—and alone. Oh! how stupid I have been to remain here,
                  when all these moments might have been spent with her!" and hurrying on his
                  garments, making his toilette with the utmost
                  despatch, he hastened to the gardens.
               The youthful danseuse, attired in an elegant
                  morning robe, which allowed her luxurious form to bear itself in the unequalled
                  grace of which it was the very type and perfection, received the duke cordially
                  but respectfully.
               "I did not think I should be honored by your company, so early this morning," said
                  Fanny.
               "If we could honor the lark by listening to its melodious matins," replied
                  Reichstadt, "you might, perhaps, find an excuse for saying you were honored."
               "If I was too courteous to the noble Duke of Reichstadt, he is too complimentary
                  to the poor danseuse" responded Fanny, quickly,
                  and with an air of embarrassment, while the ruddy glow the fresh air had given to
                  her cheek made her truly captivating.
               "The lateness of the hour in which I have joined you, I am well aware, gives
                  little nerve to the confession I would make—that this has now become to me the
                  garden of Eden," said the youth.
               "How so?" asked Fanny; "I certainly am not the first woman who has been here."
               "The first," replied the duke, "who, created after God's own image, could make me
                  disobey all higher commands to please her."
               "Still generous with your compliments!"
               "Eve was indeed complimented, when the stern partner of her new life, yielded to
                  the eloquence of a tongue, whose power and sweetness could not have equalled
                  yours."
               
               "Ah, sir, you would try to make me vain—and being vain, become the game at which
                  the world would fly its hawks of wit, to pick my feathers out, and bring me to the
                  ground."
               "Your fancy took a wayward flight then, indeed, and had it kept on at so wild a
                  rate, would have needed more skill than I possess to make you earthly game,—had I
                  the will to do so."
               "But, did I not speak the truth?"
               "If you had spoken only what you really thought, you would, like all
                  the angels, have spoken truth; but speaking only what you feared, did me a great
                  injustice."
               "Then pardon me, I pray, for I would be sincere with one who so much loves
                  sincerity," and the fair creature looked grieved.
               "'Tis I who crave pardon, dear Madamoiselle. I do indeed love sincerity—love it as
                  a rare plant—one that has no particular soil or climate; I love it as a rare and
                  precious jewel seldom glittering in coronets and crowns, but the ornament often of
                  humble, lowly hearts. I love it as a stalwart plant that thrives not by artificial
                  culture, but in the pure, untainted atmosphere, in broad, uncircuited fields,
                  grows, expands, and adds beauty and value to its region."
               "Yonder summit," said the fair girl, as if merely to change the subject, "seems
                  like a most lovely spot."
               "It is more than that, "replied the duke, "for with the most enchanting view in
                  the world which it commands, it combines the charm of solitude; while in the
                  temple which crowns the hill, are luxurious halls, and a library such as would
                  befit even your refined taste. Shall we climb to it?"
               "Oh, yes, with all my heart," said Fanny, in girlish glee; and away they went,
                  happy as children among flowers.
               The duke, on reaching the summit, was pale with fatigue, and sought rest by
                  throwing himself on one of the rich lounges of the library; while the divine
                     danseuse, with cheeks more blooming than
                  ever, tried to make him forget his weariness, by a pas
                     seule. Could the purest stoic in the world have sat unmoved at such
                  an exhibition? I believe not; and as Reichstadt was not wanting in sensibility, he
                  sprang up, and clasping the sylphide about the waist, pressed her passionately to
                  his bosom, and swore she should be all his own.
               "Generous duke," said Fanny, withdrawing herself with proper self-respect, "In
                  homely phrase, 'it takes two to make a bargain;' and though a duke must jest, or
                  wrong in intent a low-born girl by such a speech, I must claim your pardon that I
                  blushed at a wayward thought which stole into my brain—that you did love me."
               "And so, by heaven, I do, most noble girl! Must we look to ancestors to find out
                  if we are noble? Who have you seen among the high-born princesses of the realm
                  that surpasses you in any precious quality of head or heart? But come and sit you
                  near me, and let me hear you prove that you are not nobler than they
                  are, or that I do not love you."
               "Perhaps it would grieve me more to prove what you ask, than you are
                  aware of; though the task is an easy one. First—"
               "First and last," said the duke, interrupting her, and gazing into her face with
                  intense earnestness, "say you will be mine."
               
               "Scarcely a day you have known me, and yet you propound so serious a question,"
                  replied the girl. "You cannot expect me to answer it now. Time must pass; the
                  emperor and empress must know and countenance your designs. Name, title, lands,
                  must be conferred upon me; not for myself, but for your sake. A thousand
                  preliminaries must be gone through with, era I could consent to be raised to your
                  high estate."
               "Titles I have not to give; but my life is yours, and at my death, if we have no
                  heirs, I will bequeath to you my estates. This very day the documents shall be
                  drawn; all shall be done to prove to you my words are true, my love
                  unconquerable."
               "Why this haste, noble duke?" Give me time to think of that which so bewilders me
                  now. My joy would be too great; I dare not trust myself to contemplate so much
                  beatitude. Come, let us walk into the open air;—to-morrow, we will talk more of
                  this."
               For a long time they wandered about the grounds almost in silence, and finally
                  turned their steps to the palace, each wishing to be alone, to contemplate the
                  new-found joys.
               Before the close of the day, the duke had made out such testamentary papers, as he
                  knew would satisfy the lady, in regard to property; though he felt uncertain about
                  her consenting to a secret marriage, which their relative positions
                  for the present required.
               On the following morning, the duke was with "his intended," in the library at the
                  temple on the hill, where he presented her with a title to his estates, and
                  explained the nature of his position, which precluded the possibility of a public
                  marriage. He also most sacredly assured her, that when it was possible, their
                  union should be solemnized in pubilc.
               The fair danseuse, having obtained all that was
                  desirable,—provided she could overcome the incipient love she bore the duke, or
                  else kill him with her very love,—a task that would not, she thought, be difficult
                  nor even painful—I say, the fair danseuse,
                  having obtained, by his will, the important Val de Mazzara, had sufficient
                  fondness for him not to urge too strenuously the other conditions she at first
                  proposed; and she was more willing to concede them since the favor of the emperor
                  and empress was in no wise compromised by the concession.
               "This is very generous of you," said the divine Fanny, "and it all accords with
                  that nobleness of heart it has been my constant pleasure to admire; but I cannot
                  yet gaze on that lofty eminence to which you would lift me, without becoming
                  dizzy, faint, and all too womanly. Spare me yet awhile—give me a few days to dream
                  of my approaching bliss."
               "Adored Fanny, you cannot but forgive my haste, I know; for should I not pay your
                  matchless charms a meagre compliment, if, while gazing on them, my soul did not
                  cry out for their possession? Standing here, I might become like those poor
                  pilgrims who, exhausted, reaching the summit of the mount that overlooks the land
                  of promise, lie down and die."
               "Ah, kind sir, do not plead with me further. Believe my will is to
                  make you happy; and if sacrificing my poor self could shed one gleam of sunshine
                  along the path of the noble son of the most illustrious of sires, it would be an
                  abundant reward."
               
               The duke, no longer doubtful, folded the trembling, yielding form of the beautiful
                  girl to his own bosom, and began that life of luxury,—that drinking of a rich and
                  bountiful cup of love, which proved a poison unto death.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.
               AS a faint streak of light began to tinge the eastern horizon, Tzella found
                  herself in the suburbs of a little village. There she sat down to rest herself,
                  and await the hour for the opening of the shops, when she could procure something
                  to eat to resuscitate her exhausted frame. The excitement under which she
                  traversed the many dusty miles that now lay between her and the great town—the
                  feeling that she was flying from ruin, (a sacrifice there was no love to sanctify
                  and render less painful than death)—had sustained her; but now her little feet
                  were bleeding, her limbs trembling, her head and heart heavy, and when the sun was
                  high up, she was awakened from a sound sleep by the rough voice of a paysan.
               
               "Out late last night, my pretty Mademoiselle! I think you should have a better
                  place to sleep in, though not one of the nobility."
               "I knew not that I was so weary," replied Tzella. "I only sat down to wait till I
                  could get something to eat from the cafe."
               The good man was pleased with her sweet address, and at once conducted her to a
                  restaurant, where some dry bread and hard cheese were given to her, on the
                     supposition that she was a beggar.
                  When, however, she gave the proprietor a gold coin, he brought out his best wine
                  and treated her with the utmost obsequiousness.
               The kindness shown to her for money, and that from the dictates of a charitable
                  heart, Tzella repaid by many thanks, and resumed her journey. After travelling
                  several miles the dilligence came up, and as her feet were again bleeding, she
                  entreated the postillion to take her up to the next village; but the doors were
                  fastened, she probably had no money, and perhaps no passport, and these reasons,
                  just or not, were considered sufficient, by the one appealed to, to exclude
                  her.
               Not yet disheartened, the poor girl walked on, and after accomplishing a league or
                  two more, she came to a cross erected on a rock in which there was a niche
                  containing an image of the Virgin, who, with hands folded on her bosom, was
                  looking with tearful, suppliant eyes towards heaven. This was a refreshing sight
                  to the weary wanderer. She approached it softly, as if afraid to disturb the holy
                  mother's devotion, and kneeled down in silence before it. Raphael, with his
                  inspired pencil, never painted a Madonna with a more lofty impress of beauty,
                  loveliness, and piety, than was in the face of this new worshipper.
               While Tzella kneeled by the wayside, she little imagined there was a human being
                  on the face of the wide earth who was thinking of her; but there were several.
                  During her engagement at Havre the public presses teemed with most extravagant
                  praise of her powers, her grace, her beauty; and this had reached every quarter of
                  the continent—so that at the moment she was folding her hands in prayer, the
                  manager of the Theatre Francaise, in Paris, was folding a letter proffering to her
                  a most favorable engagement if she would come to the capital; and the Empress of
                  Austria had just given orders to have a courier despatched to bring her to
                  Vienna.
               The letter of the French manager remained uncalled for at the post, but the
                  courier from Vienna having definite instructions, felt bound to see the English
                  prodigy. He accordingly, by strict inquiries, learned of her hotel, and there, of
                  her sudden disappearance; and at the office of the diligence, that a young and
                  interesting person had been seen on such a day on such a road. On this road, then,
                  he started, and from the different villages heard of her and the direction she
                  took, and so traced her to Amiens, Valenciennes, Namur, Leige, and Cologne, where,
                  in one of the squares, he found her dancing to an idle populace, who gave her much
                  praise and a few sous.
               "My beautiful girl," said the courier, in rather broken English, "you dance too
                  well to be wasting yourself on these boors. Why don't you go on to the stage?"
               "I was, sir, on the stage, and was well paid; but then I gave all my money to a
                  person who had supplied me when I was very poor."
               "But why did you not continue at Havre, where, I hear, you met with good
                  success?"
               "I hardly know, myself, sir. Yet I know that I preferred to go away and wander
                  alone, than have forced upon me the society of one whom I feared and
                  disliked."
               "Would you not like a good engagement, now, at Vienna?"
               "Where is that, sir?"
               
               "It is far from here; yet the queen, hearing of your many excellent qualities,
                  desires you to come to her, and promises you a kind reception."
               "You must be mistaken in the person, sir?"
               "Are you not Tzella, the English Stella
                  Bianca?"
               "They have called me so."
               "No one could ever mistake you. Your strange complexion, your large eloquent eyes,
                  leave a lasting impression wherever they are seen."
               "But how does the queen know anything of me?"
               "She has seen you heralded in all the French papers as the most accomplished in
                  Spanish dances of any one who has ever appeared on the stage."
               "And shall I be treated well, if I consent to go?"
               "You shall, upon my honor, while you are under my care; afterwards it will depend
                  on your own discretion."
               "I will go."
               "Here, then, is money to procure you suitable garments; and when you have them,
                  and are in readiness, leave word at the Hotel Cologne, and in an hour after, we
                  will be en route for the most beautiful city in
                  the world. Adieu, but do not be long in letting me hear from you."
               After a tedious journey, which Tzella thought would never end, she was greatly
                  delighted in finding herself one morning, whirled along the beautiful streets of
                  the Austrian capital. Landed at the great hotel, "Estate Frankfort," where
                  splendid apartments were immediately procured for her, she felt that she was in a
                  trance, or that some fairies had taken the direction of her affairs.
               A few hours after Tzella's arrival, the directeur of the theatre was announced. He inquired concerning the
                  dances she could appear in, and what wardrobe she had. He informed her of the
                  necessity of the latter being very rich, and proposed to advance the necessary
                  funds to procure them, while his offer for an engagement of thirty nights, was
                  liberal in the extreme.
               Tzella's career seemed now to be opening before her with a splendid vista, and if
                  nothing interfered to mar her present prospects, she would accomplish all that she
                  desired, and be as happy as any mortal could without friends, or home, or country,
                  and nothing to fall back upon save her beauty and talents.
               The first night the young English danseuse
                  appeared, she elicited great applause,—the second night more, the third still
                  more, and finally such enthusiasm and frenzy, that had the capital fallen to ruins
                  it would not have buried this universal topic. The walls of Schonbrunn were not
                  thick enough to keep from the young duke and the divine Fanny, (who spent their
                  time there together,) the report of the new danseuse's fame, which hung like a fair garland around the town.
               On several nights of the English girl's performance, Reichstadt had made an excuse
                  for being absent from the palace. This, with the jealousy that would naturally
                  spring up of a rival in the art of which she had ever been the empress, pierced
                  the Austrian with unspeakable anguish, and forced her into many resolves. First,
                  she would again appear on the stage. Secondly, she would withdraw her rival from
                  the public by the same arts that had been practised on herself; and if it could be
                  done through the same agent, might hasten the designs of the imperial
                  family—designs which, perhaps, were in their thoughts when they invited the foreign beauty to the capital.
                  Yet, with a naturally good and tender heart, she could not make up her mind to
                  injure the fair creature who had not intentionally done her the least harm.
               The empress had none of the scruples which affected the fair consort of the duke,
                  and at once determined to make of Tzella the same tool she had made of another, in
                  prostrating the few remaining energies of her husband's grand-child. The new
                  theatrical star was accordingly invited to Schonbrunn, where she was presented to
                  the duke, and submitted to the test of his charms, while, under some pretext,
                  Fanny's presence was required for a day or two at a distant villetta. Hearts are
                  not bought! They are involuntary gifts, or are to be doubted! The duke made but
                  little progress, for there was something in Tzella's face, expression, bearing,
                  that was above his comprehension. He looked at her with the same adoration he
                  would have the Madonna, and he would as soon have contemplated the seduction of
                  the Virgin Mother herself, as uttering an impure thought in the lovely girl's
                  presence.
               "Though I am fascinated and bound as by a spell," said the duke, "by the unfading
                  beauties of that exquisite creature who has just left us, yet, more beautiful
                  Tzella, I feel that for the first time I sincerely love."
               "And who, sir, may I ask, is the person?" said Tzella, with carelessness.
               "There is but one here, and she is the one," replied the duke.
               "Flattery, sir, does not become your station nor mine," replied the girl with
                  dignity.
               "If I do flatter when I speak the trtuh," said the duke, "then do I flatter now.
                  The one of whom I have spoken, I bought"—(and he did her great injustice in this
                  remark, for he knew nothing of the mighty influence that had been brought to bear
                  on the victim)—"ay, with my wealth. The beautiful 'Val de Mazzara,' passing
                  through an enemy's country, as it is here called, and opening on the more
                  beautiful bay of Genoa, I gave to her. Titles, too, are to be hers, and what is
                  more—my name. Without these she would not have been mine, and—"
               "And, sir, what have I to do with this?" asked Tzella, with much surprise.
               "Pardon me, Mademoiselle," replied the duke, evidently mortified, "I told you
                  this, to show to you the habitudes of courts, and by exposing them, express to you
                  my conviction of the exaltedness of your own character—a character
                  sustained by a rectitude more priceless than the Indies; that cannot be swayed by
                  aught but the most refined and exalted affection—the affection I would lay at your
                  feet."
               "I do not understand you, sir," responded Tzella, with some embarrassment.
               "Then it is because you do not love me," said Reichstadt, sorrowfully.
               "I am but a poor girl, sir; a beggar to-day, a courted and caressed danseuse to-morrow, but still uneducated and poor,—an
                  orphan, without a name or home; but, sir, I think real love is not of so sudden a
                  growth. The rich treasures of the mines lie deep and are conformations which only
                  long years could have effected. You will order my carriage, if you please."
               
               "And will you not remain with us longer?" asked the duke, with much
                  earnestness.
               "I thank you, sir, but I cannot," replied Tzella, rising to prepare herself to
                  depart.
               "May I have the pleasure of accompanying you?" persisted the duke still more
                  earnestly.
               "You must excuse me, sir—I thank you for the honor," (and had she not been a pure
                  and simple child of nature, one would have thought this last word was emphasized
                  in scorn)—"but the servant knows well my hotel, and will take me there safely. Did
                  you order the carriage, sir?"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIX.
               THE DUKE DE REICHSTADT, rebuffed by the poor English girl, turned with more zest
                  to his divine Fanny, while Tzella, feeling that she was surrounded by dreadful
                  pitfalls, without a friend to counsel her, a father to whom she could fly for
                  Comfort, support and direction, reached her hotel almost distracted, resolving to
                  depart instantly for—somewhere, where she would find people whom she could trust
                  and love. On the following day, without even waiting to collect her money, taking
                  only the little that had been left from the first sums given to her by the
                     directeur, she procured her passport and
                  started for the south. The diligence was full; no one looked kindly on her; she
                  was again a vagrant. She, however, only felt anxious to be away,—urged by some
                  strange impulse of which she had not the key. It was not exactly flying a city
                  filled with the plague, but the flying towards more genial spirits.
               Wearied with a long journey, Tzella finally reached Trieste, where, her money
                  being gone, she was again obliged to dance in the public streets. This never
                  failing resource, and perhaps the hardships she had suffered, gave her a kind of
                  independence that rather encouraged than rebuked her peculiar indifference to
                  monetary affairs. On the second day, she encountered a party of Englishmen, who, having a vessel bound to Venice,
                  offered her a free passage. Trusting them as her countrymen, she accepted their
                  courteous invitation; but meeting the same treatment that had so deeply wounded
                  her elsewhere, she again fled, nor hardly rested on her way westward till she
                  reached Milan.
               It is needless to say that the poor Tzella suffered. Few could have endured what
                  she did, and live; but in her there was an intensity of high feeling, something
                  that would have made her drink of the very cup of bitterness the Saviour drank of,
                  and have added no more than "Thy will be done, not mine;" and when any trial came,
                  when the most seductive of influences filled the air she breathed, she unharmed
                  passed through them, and shook off their taintings as Paul did the viper that came
                  from the fire and fastened on his hand.
               With the beautiful city of Milan, Tzella was greatly pleased, and having received
                  much encouragement, thought of making an engagement at the theatre; but, on
                  looking from her window, who should she see but her Havre acquaintance, Conrad.
                  More alarmed than ever, she disguised herself all she possibly could, and
                  instantly fled from the town, and began again her wanderings on foot. Poor Tzella!
                  Thy own delicate sensibility was a father and friend to thee, in so far as it
                  warned thee of evil but it gave thee little of paternal guardianship and
                  protection!
               Like a sad maniac, as all who met her thought her to be, Tzella strolled from town
                  to town, from field to field, from house to house. Sometimes she slept by the
                  wayside, sometimes on the floor of poor hovels of the paysani; and sometimes was a whole day without food. One evening she
                  found herself in a beautiful valley, whose verdant slopes and wooded and rugged
                  walls gave it a picturesqueness which filled her with unbounded delight. She
                  traversed it for a great distance, when suddenly, with a laugh of wild joy, she
                  sprang towards a large rock that jutted out from the side of the mountain, and
                  throwing her arms upon it, as though she would embrace its rugged form, kissed it
                  fervently.
               We will not say that poor Tzella was not now a maniac; it would be strange indeed
                  were she not so; for, driven from the face of man by his infamy, and made to
                  wander, weary and starving, without one noble heart to sympathise in her joys or
                  sorrows, angels or some power more than human must have given peace and sustenance
                  to her soul to have left even one golden gleam of reason, one ray of "a bow of
                  promise" to her naturally strong, her singularly pure intellect. Her present
                  conduct, however, was caused by other emotions than Such as flit in dusky images
                  around brain of a maniac. That stone recalled in an instant all those years of
                  real happiness she passed with her adopted father in the mines of Cuba, for it was
                  a beautiful blue malachite—its crystals shooting up as clear and bright as the
                  great arch above; it was a rich and beautiful specimen of copper ore, which she
                  had been so early taught particularly to designate, and on which had depended her
                  very existence.
               The rich "cropping out" of ore on the surface induced the fair wanderer to examine
                  more attentively the neighboring ground, which in every direction revealed to her
                  intelligent scrutiny, indications of great mineral wealth. She followed the line
                  of a vein far down into the valley,
                  where night gathered its mantle about her. She then threw herself on to the rocky
                  bed—a metallic couch which she many a time happily contemplated—and through
                  exhaustion,—fainting rather than sleeping,—in an instant forgot that she ever
                  existed. Oh, to the sorrowing heart how blessed is forgetfulness!
               Heavy thunder rolled along the mountain tops and echoed in the valley, but the
                  fair girl heard it not. The rain poured in torrents, but the tired wanderer felt
                  it not. The light of morning came, and gently stole over the eyelids of the lovely
                  sleeper, but she saw it not. The seraphic spirit of the homeless Tzella was ready
                  to wing its way from its frail tenement, when a young man, hand in hand with a
                  lovely maiden, came along, followed by a flock of sheep.
               "A murder! a murder!" exclaimed the youth, rushing towards the unconscious and
                  prostrate form of the poor stranger.
               "No, no, I trust not!" said the montuna, "but
                  some weary traveller whom we can, soon restore;" and with her lover she hastened
                  forward, and gave her aid in raising the frail creature, who appeared to them, at
                  first, to be quite dead. "Her hands, her forehead are very cold, but here,"
                  continued she, placing her hand within the dress of the sufferer, while the warm
                  tears were gushing from her own eyes—"here is yet warmth, and we can save her—yes,
                  thank heaven, we can save her!"
               "Then quick, let us hasten back with her to the cottage," said the young man,
                  "where our good mother will know what to do for her;" and with his powerful arm he
                  bore her away as if she had been a thing of straw.
               Rubbed with warm flannels, bathed with warm spirits, nourishment administered to
                  her in the most tender manner, the houseless, rescued one began first to be
                  conscious of the sounds of friendly voices, and then that she was the object of
                  the solicitude of persons whom she knew not. Finally, she opened her eyes, and
                  looked a gratitude she had not the power to utter," but which filled with enviable
                  joy every heart in the humble dwelling.
               "We understand you," said the montuna—no other
                  than Saffi herself—"and we do not ask any thanks till you are quite recovered.
                  Rest calmly and securely till to-morrow, and then if you feel well enough and
                  would like, you may tell me how you were lost in this valley, and what we poor
                  people can do for you." Tzella, from knowing Spanish, understood the purport of
                  Saffi's words, and taking the hand of the kind speaker, she pressed it warmly to
                  her lips.
               "Carlo," said Saffi, turning to the young man, who still stood near, deeply
                  anxious to know the history of the fair creature he had assisted in saving, there
                  being something in her face that seemed to him strangely associated with his early
                  life; "Carlo, I must ask you to go alone to-day to the pastures, for I would
                  remain here till this poor girl is better. In a few days I hope father will be
                  well enough to take our places as shepherds; then you can stay here with me, and
                  assist me in my garden and among my vines."
               "I will go," replied her lover, "but the day will be a long one which finds you
                  not by my side."
               "I hope it will always be so," replied Saffi, in one of her sweetest smiles, while
                  Charles Wellington, gently pressing her hand, bade her adieu till evening.
               
               Every moment of the whole day Saffi devoted to her patient, between whom and
                  herself there had spung up the kindliest of sympathies and the warmest friendship.
                  Most of the time, the gentle paysanne sat on the
                  side of the bed, watching the angel-like expression of the face before her, and
                  guessing at the sufferer's wants, which, as far as she was able, she promptly
                  satisfied. Before night came, however, Tzella was able to communicate a little to
                  her benefactress, who now, more than delighted, and still warning her to be
                  careful and not exert herself till the following day, questioned and listened.
               Charles, having gained the pasture to which the fleecy troop had preceded him, sat
                  down and pondered on the features of the beautiful girl lie had saved from death.
                  He went over his whole life from beginning to end, reviewed it and re-reviewed it,
                  but always with the same result, which was—a moral certainty that she had had
                  something to do with his early life, but where or how was but the vaguest of
                  conjectures. When he returned to the cottage he regarded her with the intensest
                  scrutiny without further elucidating the mystery; but on the following morning
                  when she awoke, able to talk and even sit up in bed, the whole thing burned itself
                  into his brain as if it had been a flash of lightning. "She is the victim of my
                  cruelty!" he cried, and, reeling from the cottage, rushed into the forest and hid
                  himself. How great now was his agony! He felt that the fair creature had been sent
                  by heaven to stamp upon his forehead the brand of Cain, to wither his heart, to
                  blast his reputation, to crush his hopes. She had the power, and he believed she
                  would use it, to convince his Saffi that he was a villain. This he could not
                  endure, and when night came he returned to the city. Finding a vessel ready to
                  sail (he cared not whither) on the following morning, he offered himself as a
                  sailor, to work his passage gratis to any port to which they might be bound; and
                  in a few hours, was on his way to Sicily.
               Charles Wellington had not given himself time to think; but when conscious that he
                  was where he could not, even if occasion offered, prostrate himself before his
                  beloved and explain all, he grew frantic and would have leaped into the sea, had
                  his design not been seasonably frustrated. On arriving at Messina it was necessary
                  to confine him in the hospital for the insane, where, for a few weeks, he knew not
                  himself. When his reason returned, and he began to consider how fatal to his
                  happiness his present course was, he resolved immediately to revisit the Val de
                  Mazzara, and die at the feet of his Saffi, or regain her favor.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XL.
               SAFFI noted the manner in which her betrothed left the cottage, yet had not the
                  remotest idea of the cause; nor did she suppose he would be long absent; but when
                  night came and he did not return—when morning came, and no Carlo presented
                  himself, and when another night and still another morning succeeded, and still no
                  dear Carlo—her fears assumed a fatal mastery over her. She was no longer the
                  Saffi, the guileless, happy Saffi, we have heretofore seen her, but was like one
                  dumb, one not of this world, pale, emaciated, abstracted; and taking the place on
                  the bed lately occupied by the invalid Tzella—who now in her turn became nurse and
                  comforter—sank, to all appearances, beyond mortal aid.
               Seeing their dear child so ill, Saffi's father and mother, who had always depended
                  much on her, grew weary of life; and neglecting their several duties, opened the
                  door to poverty and misery. The angel, however, those poor people had entertained,
                  shed a divine light through the cottage. Her abundant faith, her hallowed
                  aspirations, her tender solicitude, her earnest service, supported the aged, and
                  soon raised the drooping Saffi from the borders of the grave, and left the bow of
                  hope arching over the fortilage of resignation.
               Tzella no longer thought of herself; her preservers were all, in all, above all.
                  She would have deemed her life but a poor sacrifice if it could have rendered them
                  happy. But there were so many circumstances entirely beyond her control, that
                  after her thoughts had ascended to heaven in fervid pleadings, she would always
                  add—"Thy will be done, not mine."
               Saffi, I have said, was resigned; but it was rather a resignation to death than
                  life. For Tzella, however, she formed an immeasurable attachment, and it was the
                  new cord which bound her to earth; but this new-found friend could not be always
                  with her; in fact, the time had already come when she was to bid them all a long
                  farewell.
               "God bless you," said Tzella, as she embraced the good people with whom she had
                  spent many memorable weeks;
               "I must now leave you—something whispers it to my heart."
               "Do not abandon us, we pray you," said Bolaro, in a tone of earnest entreaty. "Il
                  Signor Carlo, on whom we somewhat depended for support in our old age, has now
                  left us, we know not why, and taken with him the life of our daughter. We are thus
                  doubly bereft; so do remain with us, and all that our poor hands can gain for you
                  shall be yours. Our hut is miserable, but we will try and make you comfortable,
                  for I feel that in you there is a preserving virtue, a sanctity that will bring a
                  blessing on our roof, and make glad this 'Val de Mazzara.'"
               "Val de Mazzara!" exclaimed Tzella.
               "Yes, fair child, this is the 'Val de Mazzara,'" said Bolaro.
               
               "Whose property is this 'Val de Mazzara?'" asked Tzella, in trepidation.
               "I know not," responded Bolaro; "but why are you thus excited?"
               "It awakens in my mind a shameful proposition, which, in reality, drove me as you
                  know to the brink of the grave."
               "Try then and forget it, good daughter. All I know of the ownership of this tract
                  of country, I have recently learned. My brother, it is said, returning rich from
                  the wars of Spain, placed me here to take charge of it; and from documents
                  recently brought to light, it would appear he had died and left it to my daughter,
                  who, poor thing, I fear, will never live to enjoy it."
               "Where are those documents?" asked Tzella, with impatience; "for I know that these
                  lands are even the bonds of strange bargains, and may be made worse use of than
                  they can be were they yours?"
               "Carlo brought them with him from England," said Saffi, suddenly starting up from
                  a long, silent repose; "and he has taken them with him, and will not return."
               "And what were they?" inquired Tzella.
               "Titles to this estate, and much other property," replied Saffi; "and Carlo said
                  that my uncle died—was murdered, as he thinks—and affirms that these very
                  documents were stolen by a Mr. Smithers."
               "Smithers!" exclaimed Tzella, "Smithers! That name recalls my childish days, and
                  if it is the one I often heard mentioned, then you may believe anything; for he
                  was always regarded by mother Wellington as a fiend."
               "Wellington!" echoed Saffi, in her turn; "why do you call her mother? That was
                  Carlo's mother."
               "Carlo's mother?" echoed Tzella, slowly, thoughtfully, as though from afar there
                  was stealing into her mind the solemn melody of a sacred truth.
               "Yes," continued Saffi; "and it was his mother who told him about the documents,
                  and how she believed Smithers came to have them."
               "But they are not here," said Tzella, sadly. "Oh, would that they were here,—for I
                  believe it all true that you tell me; and if they were in your possession, I think
                  we might save the property from foreign hands."
               "Foreign hands?" exclaimed Bolaro.
               "Yes,—and now a new thought strikes me," said Tzella, looking as though she had
                  been commissioned by heaven to do a great deed; "and I will away at once. I will
                  seek for your Carlo, as you call him, and if I do not find him, I can yet keep
                  from their hands"—and she was now talking to herself—"this lovely
                  spot; for if the laws here are like the Spanish, this mineral land will be claimed
                  by the government. Farewell, dear friends; I have a new life before me. I see
                  where I can serve, and that makes me happy. Be cheerful, and I will see you
                  again;" and she hurried on her hat, and before there was time to ask an
                  explanation, she had flown from the cottage, and was already on her way to obey
                  the behests of her generous spirit.
               When Tzella reached the city it had began to grow dark, so she crouched down in a
                  corner of the great arch under "Aqua Sola," and
                  passed there the night. The following day she spent in the streets of Genoa, along
                  the Banqui, and the port, in fruitless
                  search for Wellington. Towards evening, growing faint, she was obliged to beg. Her
                  voice, manner, dress, all showed she was not one of the lazaroni, and attracting the attention of the police, was taken
                  before a higher commissario, where the story of
                  her mission was related. This was of so extraordinary a nature, that it was at
                  once reported to the governor, who ordered the young stranger before him.
               "Do not be alarmed, my fair child," said the dignitary, in a mild tone, as Tzella
                  approached, pale and trembling, though trembling as much from weakness as fear,
                  "for we have not summoned you here as a criminal, but as one who is good and
                  benevolent, and has a truthful story to tell."
               "Pero Senor, Jo no puedo hablar Italiano
                     bastante," commenced Tzella.
               "Ah, lei es Espanol?" said the governor.
               "No, senor, English," replied Tzella.
               "Send for Signor Fiello Alfierdermo, who speaks English perfectly," said the
                  governor to one of his aids, "for it appears that this girl is English instead of
                  Spanish; and though she evidently understands much of our language, she cannot
                  converse fluently enough to explain all I wish to know."
               Tzella remained standing for a while, but at last her strength gave way;
                  everything grew dark before her, and she would have fallen on the floor, had not
                  one of the attendants caught her. The governor was mortified that he had not been
                  more mindful of the delicacy of the gentle creature, and now gave his personal
                  attention to seeing that she was properly cared for. Wine, fruits and cake were
                  brought to her, and by the time the interpreter had arrived, she had fully
                  recovered.
               In the dimly lighted chamber, Signor Alfierdermo could not distinguish the
                  features of the fair Tzella, but the moment she began to speak the language in
                  which he had listened to the first accents of love, his heart throbbed with
                  uncontrolable violence, and, for some moments, made the proceedings indefinite. He
                  begged her, however, to relate her whole story, which he promised faithfully to
                  interpret to the governor.
               "Do not ask me, sir, I pray," said Tzella, "to tell you how I became as I am. It
                  is enough that I am poor, and without parents or home; but do not let these
                  trifles prevent your believing my words, for I speak for one who saved me from
                  death, and who is dearer to me—far, far dearer to me—than life itself. In the Val
                  de Mazzara lives poor Bolaro. He has a daughter, young, surpassing lovely, and
                  good like the angels; but she is now ill, and I fear, unless something is done for
                  her, will go to the grave; this will kill her worthy parents. When I was arrested
                  I was trying to aid those good people—I was trying to find the lover of my sweet
                  friend Saffi; for, if he should return, Saffi would again be happy. Besides, if
                  what they told me is true, he has documents which entitle her, by the
                  death of her uncle in London, to the beautiful valley in which she lives, and to
                  other property held illegally by one Smithers."
               "Smithers!" exclaimed Alfierdermo, almost gasping for breath; "what thrilling
                  associations this voice and that name awaken! But go on."
               "I have only to add, sir, that if these documents are legal ones, there is
                  probably some treachery in Vienna; for I know that this property has been
                  transferred by the Duke de Reichstadt
                  to the fair danseuse, known as the divine Fanny.
                  Now, sir, allowing this to be true, why cannot the government take possession of
                  the valley, till this claim of Bolaro is proved? Do not all mineral lands, as in
                  Spain by Spanish law, belong to the Crown?"
               "Yes," responded Signor Alfierdermo, "but that is not mineral land."
               "You mistake, sir; it is the richest in the world. From the mountain side down
                  into the gorge west, there crops out a vein of copper ore, as perfect and splendid
                  as ever gladdened the eye of a miner;" and here Tzella's enthusiasm was almost
                  carrying her off.
               "And how do you know this? how do you know anything of copper ores?"
                  asked the interpreter, more deeply interested than ever.
               "Pardon, sir, my earnestness; for that subject recalls the happiest years of my
                  life,—years in the mines of Cuba, where I found a good friend who became as a
                  father to me, because I was attentive and learned quickly to distinguish the ores
                  among which my lot was cast."
               Signor Alfierdermo interpreted the whole strange story to the governor, who,
                  highly gratified, ordered some money to be given to her, with a request that she
                  should return at the same hour on the following day.
               For a moment, poor Tzella's heart rebelled at the thought of taking money for
                  serving the cause of Saffi; but her necessities demanded the sacrifice, while
                  mortified feelings flushed her cheek with beauty as she left the palace.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLI.
               TZELLA, having told her story, thought much less of returning to the palace of the
                  governor, than of finding the possessor of the important documents; and having
                  spent the night with a poor woman to whom she gave a few soldi, recommenced her search. No crusader ever set out on his march
                  towards the Holy Land with more faith and devotion, than did this fair English
                  girl on her enterprise de la corazon, and
                  learning almost at her first inquiry that a young man, answering to the
                  description given of Wellington, had left on the previous day for Florence, she,
                  without a moment's hesitation, started for the Tuscan capital.
               Before Tzella had left the town, an order had been despatched to the Val de Mazzara by the governor, to have Saffi brought
                  to his presence; and though it was not represented that there was any accusation
                  against her, her poor parents were dismayed, and, with anxious hearts, accompanied
                  her. Saffi's story went to coroborate all that Tzella had said; besides, she was
                  able to tell much more about Smithers, which she had learned from Wellington
                  himself. The information she communicated concerning the wily Englishman was
                  considered to be of some moment; so much so, that it led the governor to request
                  Signor Alfierdermo to write to London, and obtain all the facts of the case he could, and in the mean time keep an eye
                  on the informers.
               Alfierdermo entered on his duties with a zeal none understood; but the name of
                  Smithers had aroused in his heart such a tumult—the whole affair had so strangely
                  blended itself with his every feeling—that he seemed the spirit of unrest. He
                  despatched the necessary letters to London, and then, as Tzella had not returned
                  to the palace at the appointed hour, sent numerous servants abroad in search of
                  her.
               Days and weeks passed, without tidings of Tzella or of Wellington. In the mean
                  time, Alfierdermo, desirous of learning still more of this curious affair, and at
                  the mismo tempo have it in his power to watch
                  the movements of the gentle Saffi, urged her to remain in his family, as a nurse
                  for his invalid father. This, at first, was opposed by the parents; but as he gave
                  to them a pledge of honor that she should be well treated and paid, and her
                  interests strictly and honorably attended to as regarded the property referred to
                  in the missing documents, they consented.
               With but little hope, dispirited and lonely, Saffi's father and mother returned to
                  their cottage, while she, surrounded by the splendor and luxuries of the town,
                  regained her former cheerful and happy aspect. One day, after an age or a weary
                  month had passed, when riding out along the bastions with the invalid, who should
                  she meet but Charles Wellington!—her long lost Carlo, now the very picture of
                  despair. Did he see her? Yes. He recognized her, and believing, from the position
                  she now occupied, that she was lost to him, his head fell upon his breast, and
                  leaning against the parapet for support, forgot himself and the world. Saffi cried
                  to the driver to stop, and, springing from the carriage, hastened to her
                  lover.
               "Carlo! Carlo! my dear, my caro amico!" she
                  exclaimed. "What is the matter? Why have, you deserted me? What have I done to
                  make you hate me? Tell me, dear Carlo;" and she put her hand on his shoulder, and
                  bent down so that she could gaze into his face.
               "Hate you, Saffi?" said Wellington, the kind and tender words of his
                  loved one rousing him from the state of stupefaction, into which his great grief
                  and the effects of his late illness had for a moment cast him; "it is
                     you who must hate me."
               "No, no, Carlo! do not say so, nor think so. I am all yours; believe me, and come
                  and see me in the Strada Nuova at the casa de Alfierdermo. Say you will, for I must now
                  leave you."
               "I will," said Wellington, trying to look happy.
               "Adio," was Saffi's hasty reply; and, in an
                  instant, regained her seat in the carriage.
               "You must pardon me," said Saffi to the invalid, "for that is the person whom your
                  son so anxiously seeks, and he promises to come to see him."
               "And will he come?" asked the invalid.
               "He has said it, and he will come," was Saffi's trusting, confident reply; and a
                  half an hour had not elapsed after their return home, before Wellington was
                  relating his history and that of the documents to eager listeners—Signor Fiello and la bella
                     Saffi.
               
               "Perhaps you do not believe me," said Wellington to Signor Alfierdermo; "but, sir,
                  so help me heaven, it is true. I was once bad, sir, I know; but circumstances made me so; and if I had murdered the
                  man who murdered my mother by sufferings he forced upon her a million times more
                  cruel than could have been the quick steel of the assassin, I should have indeed
                  been called a murderer, but my conscience would not have echoed it. Disowned,
                  thrust out upon an inhospitable world, abandoned to the temptations of the poor
                  and wretched, I was the vilest of the vile; but years of suffering in a strange
                  land, where I had time to reflect on my course of conduct, changed my heart, my
                  longings, and my purposes; and when I saw this pure and lovely 'lily of the
                  valley' I had but one aspiration—that of devoting my life to goodness and to
                  her."
               "But why then did you desert her—carrying off her property, and almost destroying
                  her whom you had sworn to love," asked Alfierdermo.
               "Solely from the fear that she would cast me off," replied Charles, much affected;
                  "for, when Tzella came to the cottage, I recognized her as the child my mother had
                  charge of, and whom I often kicked and abused, and who, through my infamous
                  plottings, was sent to the mines of Cuba, where, never having heard of her, we
                  supposed she died. I thought she would remember me, and would inform Saffi of my
                  character, my birth and worthlessness; and that would end all. The documents I did
                  not think of till after I recovered from illness in the hospital of Messina; then,
                  impelled by my duty to restore them, as well as by my love, I hastened back."
               "By order of government," said Alfierdermo, "I long since wrote to London about
                  those documents, and momentarily expect an answer which will throw some light upon
                  these strange transactions of Smithers. But tell me more of this remarkable and
                  lovely Tzella, who has so deeply interested me; for, since the day she started in
                  search of you, I have not been able to obtain the least clue to her
                  hiding-place."
               "I know nothing of her," replied Wellington, "except what I occasionally picked up
                  from hasty remarks made by my mother. I think she believed that the history of the
                  child involved a secret which had something to do with, property she was to get
                  from Smithers. She said that at first the lady sent her annually sufficient money
                  to pay for its good keeping; also rich and fine clothes for its body, and was very
                  particular that it should be well instructed—and above all, taught goodness."
               "She was a good woman, then," said Signor Fiello, interrupting the
                  narrator, and wiping away the perspiration which stood in large drops on his
                  forehead.
               "Yes," continued Wellington, "she was a good woman, and mother often said, was
                  beautiful, and that the child was the perfect image of her. When the money ceased
                  coming,—and I have since thought that Smithers had something to do with
                  intercepting it,—and mother grew poorer, she felt the necessity of getting rid of
                  the girl; so I, wishing also to have her out of the way, as she often had to have
                  a good portion of my meals, suggested sending her to the West Indies,"
               "What fiend could have put so diabolical a scheme into your young head?" asked the
                  Italian, much excited.
               "I know not, sir; but I have been well rewarded for it," replied Charles; "for
                  since that time, manacled and bleeding I have seen her almost nightly flitting
                  about my bed; and if my right arm could
                  have wiped the sad image from my brain, I would have given it."
               "And does not this Tzella know anything of her parents?" asked Alfierdermo.
               "I think not," replied Wellington; "though, when a child, I remember she always
                  carried in her bosom a miniature of her mother."
               "I would give the world to find her," said the Italian. "Where do you suppose she
                  can possibly be?"
               "I cannot imagine," replied Wellington; "yet, had I the means to live, I would
                  hunt for her; for I wish at her feet to ask her forgiveness and bless her."
               "You shall make, then, my house your home," said Alfierdermo; "and" (casting a
                  glance at the ever attentive Saffi,) "I think it will not be very disagreeable to
                  you. Thus situated, you will be able to devote yourself to our mutual cause; and
                  rest assured, that if you by any means discover the whereabouts of the fair girl
                  who is even now in search of you, you shall be most generously
                  rewarded."
            
            
               CHAPTER XLII.
               WE must turn back now to London, and look a little at affairs there, and see how
                  the very respectable Mr. and Mrs. Smithers's virtues stand the test
                  of public examination. The letters requiring information concerning the former had
                  hardly been opened before it was noised abroad, and few commercial men of any note
                  remained unapprised of the suspicions which rested on that monied, religious man
                  of business. Smithers himself—through his maid-servant, who obtained her
                  information from her lover, a footman in the service of the counsellor who had the
                  business in hand—was soon put in possession of the facts, which struck upon his
                  brain like a paralytic shock and for a time nearly deprived him of all volition.
                  When sufficiently recovered, however, he made up his mind to act energetically,
                  and either obtain the papers again or die—as he felt he should have to,
                  ignominiously, by the will of society, if he remained in London—in the
                  attempt.
               From the moment Smithers lost the Bolaro documents, he was a changed man.
                  Previously, crime sat lightly on his conscience, probably because he felt that his
                  villainy was unknown; and when Mrs. Wellington, by his perfidy, went down to the
                  grave; when he turned his own son from his doors, and wished him dead; when he had
                  removed another obstacle from the way
                  of his obtaining the property of his father-in-law, he had only the end in view
                  from which he gathered his consolation. But now he was conscious that some one
                  knew of his rascality, and held at will his reputation, fortune, and life; and he
                  trembled at every shadow, started and turned pale at every sudden sound, and was
                  to all appearance a confirmed hypochondriac. He knew that if his business affairs
                  were examined into they would reveal the infamy of his character, and when the
                  above-named instructions arrived from Sardinia he saw his fate was virtually
                  sealed—that only a miracle could save him.
               The hour of retribution was drawing nigh, and Smithers felt it. He hastened home
                  from his counting-room, and sending for his wife, explained, to some extent, the
                  nature of his position. Mrs. Smithers was overwhelmed. She had, as most people
                  have, says Rochfancauld, "the fortitude to bear up against the misfortunes of
                  others; "but that all her respectability—all that she had thought it worth living
                  for—was to be swept away in a moment, was what she could never survive. She
                  listened, grew red and pale, bit her lips, wrung her hands, and trembled with rage
                  and mortification.
               Smithers was telling Mrs. Smithers of the necessity of his evading the law, and
                  what she should do with his papers, and how she should act, and what she should
                  say if any strange gentleman called to inquire particulary after him, when a loud
                  rap and ringing of the bell, and a hasty look out of the window, warned him that
                  he had but a moment of time in which to escape. Flight or a more ignominious fate
                  were his only alternatives. Availing himself of the back gate, which opened on to
                  a neighboring street, he was in an instant free, while his wife, seeing utter ruin
                  and disgrace staring her in the face, rushed to her chamber and throwing down her
                  long cherished phantom of respectability, as Judas did the thirty pieces of
                  silver, hung herself.
               The police, being assured that Mr. Smithers was in the house, fastened the doors,
                  and demanded his immediate presence in the saloon. The servant hurried to her
                  master's chamber, and not finding him there, went to Madame's, where wild screams
                  soon carried the officials. What a scene! Yet how unconcernedly they gazed upon
                  it. Was life extinct in the suspended form? They did not seek to know, nor did
                  they care; there was in the suicidal act an evidence of guilt, which did more to
                  satisfy them in the discharge of their duties than the saving of fifty lives would
                  have done. They left the body hanging and retired, while the domestic, more dead
                  than alive, ran to Mr. Jones's house and informed the inmates of all that had
                  happened.
               Mr. and Mrs. Jones hastened to the scene of disorder and death; but they being
                  prohibited touching the body without the presence of the coroner, its soul—if it
                  ever possessed one—deserted its false and frail tenement long before that
                  personage arrived.
               That Mr. Smithers had escaped, was another strong evidence of guilt, and the
                  officers, accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. Jones, proceeded to examine the premises,
                  make minutes of what was found, and put seals on such as they thought necessary
                  particularly to secure. In a drawer of a private escritoir, what did Mrs. Jones behold but the very letters she had
                  written to Fiello and his answers to them. She grasped them eagerly, but was
                  stayed in her proceedings by the
                  official, till she showed that they were her own private correspondence, and in no
                  way related to Mr. Smithers. Mr. Jones noticed his wife's eagerness to possess the
                  package, and requested to see its contents, but on being assured that he should do
                  so at some future time when she could make an explanation such as they required,
                  yielded to her word as the voice of sincerity, and proceeded in the sad duties
                  before him.
               Smithers's books were taken possession of, and on examination revealed fraud on
                  fraud; and when his numerous creditors appeared, there was little to show that
                  honestly belonged to them; the Bolaro property, and interest on the same, covering
                  nearly all the assets of the great house of the respectable absconded
                  merchant.
               The body of Mrs. Smithers had been laid quietly away in a grave, over which no
                  human being shed a tear; the affairs of Mr. Smithers were arranged as well as
                  possible, and the talk about the eventful terminus of a haughty family had nearly
                  subsided, when Mrs. Jones requested the presence of her husband in her private
                  room.
               "My dear husband," said Aluine to Mr. Jones, rising as he entered the door, "as
                  you are called, and, in one sense of the word, have been to me, I kiss your hand
                  with affection and gratitude, for it is the same one that wed me in my girlish
                  ignorance. Your lips I do not kiss, because they never speak to my
                     soul: but I would kiss your feet in token of humility. But you do
                  not understand me—come, sit down near me, and listen to me—to my
                     heart, which I have never yet revealed to you."
               "Aluine, what does all this signify?" said Mr. Jones, evidently far from
                  comprehending what she meant by the "revelations of her heart."
               "You remember those letters," continued Aluine, with a calmness which evidently
                  came from a high source, and a consciousness that she was acting as heaven
                  willed;—"those letters I found at Smithers's, and which I promised to show to
                  you?"
               "Oh, nonsense! never mind those—I had forgotten them; and suppose they
                     were love-letters?—wy, we get along very comfortably. You allow me
                  to have my own way, enjoy my friends—who I know are not always multo simpatico to you—and I of course must allow you
                  to have yours."
               "Yes, but dear Mr. Jones, my allowing you to have your own friends apart from me,
                  is an overwhelming argument that our tastes are not genial—that our hearts are
                  susceptible of different impressions. This is the real origin of those letters,
                  and the cause of all that I am now about to tell you."
               "Something about what you call the heart, I suppose? I much prefer talking about
                  the jolly time we are to have next month with my boon companions of the chase in
                  Scotland."
               "But listen, I pray you, then you will, perhaps, under stand me—will know me as I
                     am—will forgive me; for you are always good, and will yield me up
                  if it is for my happines;—I say my happiness, for you
                  are happier with those wild, hunting, jovial people with whom you pass most of
                  your time, than you ever are, or can be, with me. Since we were married, have we
                  ever passed one whole evening alone together, when the gross material world was
                  laid aside and only our spirits allowed to hold converse?"
               
               "I hope not," replied Mr. Jones, laughing, "for this world was given us to enjoy,
                  and not to dream about."
               "Ah, Mr. Jones," said Aluine, in much sadness, "you will not understand me; but
                  had you been a participant in that inward life which to me is my
                     only life, I should never have been compelled to seek another. As
                  it is, I must tell you, that though the man appointed by his fellow men to be a
                  minister in certain things, declared us wedded, I was not, in the sight of God,
                  nor could I have been, from my very nature, wedded to you."
               "You are crazy, Aluine," replied Mr. Jones, somewhat doubting his ears; "you were
                  married to me before God, the priest, and the altar."
               "Still not wedded," said Aluine, most mournfully. "I gave you my
                  hand, it is true, and I plighted my vows solemnly, but they were those of
                  ignorance. I knew not they were not of the spirit, which alone can give pledges of
                  fidelity. I did not know then that I did not love you. I did not know that I could
                  love another; that my heart—my heart—had its holy, heaven-born
                  companion not yet revealed to it."
               "Well, what rigmarole are you to add to all this?" asked Jones, rather
                  disdainfully.
               "But you remember," continued Aluine, without heeding the husband's remarks, "the
                  young Italian whom you or Mr. Smithers introduced to me, and the effect our
                  meeting had on him. I think you remember it, for you spoke particularly of it. You
                  remember, too, when I fainted on my wedding night, who it was that kneeled beside
                  me, and who was the cause both of my illness and my recovery. It was Signor Fiello
                  Alfierdermo, who, from the instant he was born, was wed to me. He could not wed
                  another. My image was stamped upon his heart by his Maker; and the moment he saw
                  me he recognized his bride. The ideal of both of our spirits found their identity:
                  they were in harmony with each other, and in harmony with their Author."
               "And what are you, in the name of plain, commonsense, aiming at?" asked Mr. Jones,
                  with serious mortification.
               "Notwithstanding all this," continued Aluine, as if uninterrupted, "I resolved to
                  fulfil, as far as consistent, my every pledge to you. I willed, then, to make you
                  happy, and I have done my best to do so; but my heart has always been
                  another's. Fiello was my God-sent bridegroom; and now that I am fully convinced
                  that you can ever be equally happy without me, I desire to go to him. You have
                  been kind and good, and I thank you; but everything disconnected with him has
                  failed, lately, to make me less than miserable. Be kind, then, as you ever have
                  been, and grant me full and free permission to leave you; I pledging my honor
                  never to visit this land again."
               During this last explanation, Mr. Jones bowed his head down over the table that
                  sat in front of him; and though he sobbed as if in tears, spake not.
               "The letters," continued Aluine, "which I found at Smithers's house, were those
                  written by me to him and his to me, intercepted by Mrs. Smithers: You can now see
                  them. Had these been received, I should not have remained so long away from him;
                  but thinking that circumstances had compelled him to refrain from writing, I did
                  not feel at liberty to go, though I never for a moment doubted his constancy and love. Had I doubted him,
                  I should have doubted Heaven itself, and died insane."
               Mr. Jones still remained silent, but he was evidently struggling with some new
                  feelings, of whose existence he had, perhaps, never dreamed.
               "I would not," resumed Aluine, "Heaven knows I would not, Mr. Jones, willingly
                  give you a moment's pain or sorrow; but you see from what source my happiness
                  springs, and how different it is from yours. When you reflect upon it, I feel sure
                  you will not condemn me, but will, as I do of you, wish me every consolation and
                  bliss the fair earth and the good gifts of Providence can bestow. Say, dear sir,
                  that you forgive; consent to my wishes, and bless me."
               As we have always said, Mr. Jones was a kind and good-hearted man; and though he
                  was deeply mortified at what had been revealed to him, he saw the naturalness of
                  it all—his want of adaptation of character to that of Aluine—and he could not
                  either condemn her conduct or refuse her requests. Had he objected, there would
                  have doubtless been an "elopement" paragraph in the news-papers; unstinted
                  scandal, unmitigated slander, poured out on either party; while their entire
                  domestic schedule would have been paraded out to gratify the morbid appetite of a
                  disinterested public. Policy, justice, goodness, necessity, dictated the decision,
                  and it was a wise one.
               After a long and painful silence Mr. Jones raised his head from the table. His
                  eyes were red with weeping, and it was with difficulty he could answer the fair
                  creature at his side. At last he said,—
               "Aluine, what you have told me astonishes me beyond measure. Most men would have
                  been angry, and sought to make you suffer for what they would call
                  perfidy; but, Aluine, such is not in my heart. There are but few
                  women in the world who designedly do wrong, and you, above all others, I know
                  would not, and much less would desire to injure me. I do understand
                  now, that we are unsuited to each other, and I will not, for the sake of a little
                  personal vanity, render your life one of wretchedness by keeping you here. Go,
                  Aluine, with my blessing. You have property enough of your own, and it will be all
                  sent you in the form you require. Should it not be sufficient to render you happy,
                  be assured it will give me a consolation if I may be allowed to add to it. I will
                  say to my friends that your health requires that you should live at the South, and
                  soon they will forget that I ever had a partner. With God's blessing, adieu." He
                  arose, kissed her forehead, and hastened from the apartment, and in an hour more,
                  in the society of jovial friends, forgot that he had possessed or lost, in Aluine
                  Lorma, anything more than a favorite hound.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLIII.
               ALUINE'S faith and her own purity had sustained her for years, though she had not
                  heard a word from her lover, and circumstances had occurred which wrung her heart
                  to its very centre; but when another blow came, the most cruel of all, she
                  despaired, and wrote as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "EVER-ADORED FIELLO:—
                           
                           I can never describe to you how utterly desolate and wretched I felt
                              when I first awoke on the morning of your departure, and said to
                              myself, "He has gone! he has gone!" I closed my eyes again, and wished
                              that I might not see the light, and all the ungenial things it brings.
                              But it could not be, and I shed the bitterest tears that ever came
                              from my eyes. Years have passed, and I love you with the
                              same intensity; but you must have changed, and it is useless to hope
                              that a love once gone can ever return. You will need some excitement,
                              some new object, to relieve you of ennui. You will see—perhaps have
                              seen, some one, young, lovely, and amiable, and I shall be remembered
                              as a thing of the past, a dream; but, dear Fiello, you cannot
                              altogether forget me, for you once loved me—and so well. Oh! this is
                              too much to bear, just at the time when all is lost to me if I have
                              lost you.
                           Fiello! I must go on though my heart will die, now that you love me no
                              more. But write, and kill this horrid suspense. Do not flatter or
                              deceive me in compassion, but tell me you give up all dreams of
                              happiness with me. How can I live in this state, breaking my heart
                              every day, thinking all the long day, "Is he changed, and lost to me
                              for ever?" I think if you should tell me so, I should be turned to
                              stone, for when I only imagine such a thing my blood
                              stands still, I feel cold, and I think how I shall look when I am
                              dead; and the pale, cold image seems to relieve the great void before
                              me, for there is rest and peace. Death is beautiful when
                              life has lost all its light!
                           I have had a little moment of relief in telling you a
                                 little of my grief; and now, farewell. I shut
                                 my world in my heart, and seem of another. Adieu, my
                              beloved, my perfect one. In your happiness remember you owe one
                              thought to me in my sorrow.
                           
                              ALUINE."
                           
                        
                        
                           P. S. Ever dear Fiello,—If I possess not you, I have the
                                 remembrance of you, which none can take from me any
                              more than they can tear your image from my heart. My kind husband sees
                              that I suffer, and thinking it an illness of the body instead of the
                              mind, tries to make me well; but it only adds to my wretchedness. I do
                              not know that I could be comforted if you should write now that you
                              love me; for I could hardly believe it. I should only think that you
                              wrote because you pitied me; nothing but looking into your eyes could
                                 assure me.
                           "Another day has come, but I cannot close this letter, though my heart
                              and brain are worn out thinking ever, ever thinking of you. I see you all day
                              long. There is not a wave of your hair that is not as vivid to me as
                              if you were here before me. Yesterday I took and read that book of
                              poems you gave me one bright Monday morning, (you had staid at home on
                              Sunday to mark it for me.) Oh! very dear Fiello, how happy we were
                              them. I took the book and turned to the marked passages, but my eyes
                              were too full of tears to read them, and my heart suffocated me. It
                              will ever be to me very dear—like the garments of an only and lost
                              child to a mourning mother, precious, but too painful to look upon.
                              Other gifts seem more inanimate; the book speaks—the
                              words you once felt.
                           "Pardon me, dear Fiello, for no coldness has power to kill me as does
                              yours. Daily I count the years, months, days, that you have been gone,
                              and wonder if the next day will not bring me some relief; but the day
                              comes, and then wish I might go to some dark and quiet place where I
                              could not think nor feel. Night brings not rest, but strange dreams. I
                              think myself wandering in fearful places, trying to find a spot on
                              which to rest, and that, alone and weary, I still must proceed. Last
                              night I felt as I have not felt for years—not since the days of my
                              girlhood and innocence, and just before stepping into bed I thought
                              that I should like to pray for you—for my love and sorrow needed to
                              pour itself out to something more than human; for when all earthly
                              consolations fail, our souls turn to the last and only true source of
                              healing and comfort. And why should I not pray for you? My love for
                              you is such I should not be ashamed of before my God, for it is as
                              pure and true a love as was ever born in the breast of woman.
                           Dear angel Fiello, how many days or weeks must it be before I shall
                              hear from you. I cannot endure this silence any longer. I shall hear
                              from you, be it good or ill—anything is better than silence. I ask you
                              on my knees; I beg you by all the love you ever bore me, by all that
                                 I once suffered for you, and by all the happiness we
                              have had together, that you will write me and tell me all. Dearest,
                              farewell. God bless you and keep you and make you happy. Pity your
                              once loved, your own.
                           
                              ALUINE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               This letter, like the others, was intercepted by Mrs. Smithers, and was found in
                  her escritoir with Fiello's last, which ran
                  thus:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "EVER, EVER DEAR ALUINE:
                           
                           Why do I never, never hear a word from you? Perhaps, it is because I
                              do not come to you. But this I cannot do, as my poor father is hour by
                              hour growing more feeble and will not permit me to leave him.
                           What new proof can I give of my constancy and love? According to my
                              promise I have written, and daily at the appointed time I have been
                              with you at the Throne of Grace. Had I known you but an hour, perhaps
                              I might sometime have thought that you had changed; but the long
                              intimacy that existed between us fully convinced me that it was a
                              union of two souls God had created for each other, and which no time
                              nor circumstances could dissever.
                           The hope which I cherished when I left you seems now but like one of
                              those white-winged birds of the fancy, which come and go when we are
                              happy; yet for a long time
                              it came, stepping with its little cherub feet, into my every prayer
                              for your happiness.
                           You see that I write somewhat cheerfully. It is because I do not
                              despair of happiness with you. I know the sad trial I have previously
                              to undergo,—that my father is to lie in his tomb, and that I am to be
                              even more desolate hearted than now; but then, flying to you and
                              proving to you that there never encircled my heart a wreath of joy,
                              bearing a single flower, that had not its budding in some cherished
                              thought of your own dear self, I feel sure will restore me to the full
                              fruition of your society, which lacks nothing but the name to make it
                              heaven.
                           My beautiful Aluine, my fair silver dove, if you love me write to me,
                              and believe me eternally yours,
                           
                              FIELLO."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               When Aluine first found these letters she hastened home, and, seeking her room,
                  locked herself in with her happiness. She then took the loved epistles from her
                  pocket, and separating them from her own, put them in her bosom, where, with her
                  slender hands, she pressed them with warmth and tenderness for the long neglect
                  they had suffered; then sat down to delay and anticipate her certain bliss,—though
                  at times almost fearing to trust herself with so much of it as awaited her. At
                  last she brought forth the loved messages from their concealment, and arranging
                  them according to their dates, began at the earliest and perused them to the end;
                  each one being bathed in tears of joy, gratitude and love, and bearing the impress
                  of a thousand kisses ere they were returned to their true and proper
                  hiding-place.
               "Oh, what I can my dear Fiello have thought of me!" said Aluine to herself, again
                  concealing her treasures; "what can he have thought of my not writing after my
                  receiving such kind, tender tokens of his confidence and love? Oh, I know what he
                  thinks! He trusts in me as I have in him. He knows that what God—not man—has
                  joined together, nothing on earth can put asunder. He knows that I am
                  all his through time, and that in eternity I will be a ministering angel to him,
                  if kind heaven so permits. And now I will fly to him, and become his happy slave.
                  By the sick bed of his father I will watch night and day, and the old man's
                  blessing will be upon me for my kindness to him; and when he has gone away to the
                  spirit land, I will comfort his dear son by every demonstration of devotion my
                  poor faculties will permit me to exhibit. Fiello, too, will aid me in the
                  discovery of my lost—our lost treasure. But alas! as yet he knows
                  nothing of it. Oh! what joy and pain will in succession fill his heart and strive
                  for mastery! But why do I stay idling my time away when, perhaps, my Fiello waits
                  for me? Oh, joy! oh, happiness! oh, bliss! I am ready now, dear Fiello, and now
                  this moment I will be on my way. I shall take nothing but my necessary garments
                  with me—all else I leave behind. My servant is ready—money—all; no, my passport
                  must be had. Oh, tedious delay! but to-morrow, angel Fiello, if I
                  live, I come!" and here, overmastered by her own heart's beatitude, she sank back
                  upon the lounge, and, for a long time, gave herself up to tears.
               On the following day, Aluine, alone—her servant deserting her in the hour of her
                  utmost need—with as few articles as she
                  could possible be comfortable with, took the Thames steamer for Boulogne, and
                  commenced her long and difficult voyage.
               Well educated, speaking fluently both the French and Italian languages, and being
                  most affable in her manners towards all those who, as travellers, were casually
                  thrown in her way, Lorma Lathmon won, on all hands, respectful attention and
                  kindness. Stepping on the shores of France, she seemed no longer separated from
                  her lover by impassable barriers, and, without a moment's delay, proceeded onward.
                  At night the diligence stopped at a small village inn, where the hostess,
                  discovering that she was English, immediately solicited aid for a poor sick female
                  in the adjoining apartment. "Tres charmente,"
                  said she, "but dying for her lover." These last words of course struck the
                  tenderest chord in the listener's bosom, and she at once asked to see the
                  patient.
               On a bed in a darkened room lay the pale and emaciated form of a once beautiful
                  girl. In her hands she clasped a small bible, which she again and again pressed to
                  her lips. Aluine drew near, and seating herself beside the sufferer, asked her of
                  her misfortunes and proffered her best services.
               "You are a kind angel," said the girl, "come to take my parting words, and I bless
                  you. Some years since, he whom I loved more than life itself, left me, and went on
                  a voyage to Cuba. From that time till recently I had no tidings of him; but
                  learning that such a person had been wrecked on this coast, I crossed the channel
                  to search for him. On the table of the first hotel I entered in Havre, I met with
                  this little book—a book with my name in it— the book I gave him. It had, I
                  learned, been left by a young dancing girl, who, I ascertained, journeyed in this
                  direction. Thinking she might know something of my loved one, I have followed her
                  here; and now, exhausted, weary of life, I can proceed no farther. Please, dear
                  woman, stay near while I live, and when I die take this little book with you, and
                  tell him, if you ever meet him, that I died blessing him."
               On the early morning of the following day, with a heavenly smile upon her face,
                  the sick stranger gave up her spirit to a new birth in a better sphere, where he
                  whom she so fondly loved, was waiting to welcome her. With unfeigned sorrow Aluine
                  wept over her and followed her to the grave; but when the sad rites were over she
                  recommenced her journey.
               We must own that our heroine's heart grew lighter, her hopes more buoyant, as she
                  travelled southward; though, when she reached Lyons, she was wearied in body
                  almost beyond endurance. A day or two of rest became necessary, and it was
                  fortunate that it was so; for a lady and gentleman meeting her there, and admiring
                  her loveliness and superior gentleness of deportment, insisted on her becoming
                  their companion for the rest of the route. This appeared as though fortune desired
                  to make amends for previous malpractice; and a few hours after the acquaintance
                  began, Aluine, with joy bordering almost on delirium, was borne on towards
                  paradise, in company with most amiable and intelligent voyagers.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLIV.
               SMITHERS remained a long time concealed in a miserable cellar in London, before he
                  could obtain a passport; then, under an assumed name, with face disguised by a
                  heavy beard, he passed over into France, and proceeded as fast as
                  circumstances—which could not compromise his incognito—permitted, towards Italy.
                  Speaking no language but that of his native country and a little Italian; having
                  no ostensible business, and appearing guilty to every one who looked at him, he
                  was narrowly watched, and several times near suffering arrest, on suspicion of
                  being the perpetrator of some dastardly crime.
               Often, during his journey, Smithers contemplated returning and giving himself
                  up—then suicide; for he now began to reflect, that if he obtained the documents he
                  was after, they would avail him nothing, since it had doubtless been
                  satisfactorily proved that he came in possession of them by fraudulent means.
                  This, in connection with his other tricks of chicanerie and vile artifices which his books must have exhibited,
                  convinced him too that England could never again be his home; while there
                  occasionally flashed across his mind the idea that there might possibly rest
                  against him a suspicion and even proof of murder: still a demon urged him on.
                  Though looking back, he pursued his way, eager to grasp again those precious
                  papers which had been both the capstone of his fortune and his ruin.
               While Smithers and Wellington were proceeding towards Genoa, Tzella was going from
                  it. Many days she remained in Florence, seeking in its every corner, and inquiring
                  of almost every one she met, for the juveni
                     Inglese. When her money failed her she went to the public squares and
                  danced—sure that her grace and extraordinary beauty would win for her immediate
                  relief. Sometimes she suffered from the rude speeches of the vulgar, but usually
                  her self-respect, self-possesion and innocence, preserved her from all serious
                  harm.
               From Florence the strada-balarina wended her way
                  on foot towards Rome; but ere she had accomplished half her journey she fell
                  dangerously ill. By the unremitted care of a Sister of the Sacred Heart, who took
                  her to a Convent and became to her as a tender mother. she escaped death. When the
                  fever of her brain had been allayed by repose, and the sorrows of her heart
                  alleviated by the Christian teachings of the good sister, she told the story of
                  her life. This deeply interested her benefactress, who so fully then portrayed to
                  her the joys of a celebic life, that Tzella resolved, as soon as she had
                  accomplished her mission, to return and become one of the exemplary and devout
                  Sisterhood. When able to walk she resumed her pilgrimage.
               Rome could not be searched in a day, but Tzella did not despair; and so long as
                  daylight lasted she wandered in search of Wellington. If for a few moments she
                  rested from her labor, the pale, expressive face of her dearly loved friend Saffi
                  rose before her in all its tearful sadness. She would then lift her large, liquid eyes toward
                  heaven, utter a silent prayer for forgiveness, and recommence her task steps.
               While the poor, houseless Tzella was wandering like a maniac about the Eternal
                  City, the important facts which she had communicated to the governor concerning
                  the claims the Austrians had on the Val de Mazzara, and the mineral wealth
                  abounding there, were transmitted to the king. His Majesty, waking as from sleep,
                  was overcome by surprise. He saw at once how useful to an enemy such a pass would
                  be in the event of a war. That a mere child, too, should discover the great
                  mineral deposit, which had escaped the eyes of all their boasted geologists, was
                  no less astounding, and he at once conceived the idea of having the prodigy in his
                  own family as a tutor to his daughters in the science of mineralogy. Action
                  followed the thought. Orders were immediately given that despatches should be sent
                  by the different mails to all the principal villages and cities of Italy, to
                  obtain, if possible, news of this young gem's whereabouts, and have her brought to
                  the palace.
               One day when Stella Bianca was standing
                  disheartened at the corner of a street, an officer of some rank gently touched her
                  on the shoulder, and asked if her name was not Tzella.
               "Si, Senor; pero no puedo trovar mon amigo
                     Wellington, can you not tell me something of him, since you know my
                  name?"
               "My good girl," replied the officer, "I know nothing of him. My mission is from
                  the king, and he requests your immediate presence at Turino."
               "The king!" exclaimed Tzella, with unaffected surprise; "what can the king want of
                  me? I am innocent of all crime, unless to be without parents or a home is a crime;
                  and all I now do, is seek for a friend of my dear friend who dies to see him. Do
                  not, I beg of you, interrupt me in my sacred duty to one to whom I owe my life;
                  but be assured, if you will permit me to accomplish this work of love, I will then
                  hasten to the king, and will give up my life willingly to him."
               "I am not disposed to interrupt the melody of that voice," responded the officer,
                  "but it is my privilege to tell you that the king is pleased with
                  you, for the important information you recently communicated to the governor of
                  Genoa, and wishes to confer favors on you. On arriving there, if your request be
                  that the gentleman you speak of shall be found, his majesty has the means of doing
                  it at once—the same means he had of discovering you."
               "And do you believe," asked Tzella, with impatient earnestness, "that his majesty
                  would condescend to interest himself in poor Wellington? I think he would in my
                  sweet friend Saffi."
               "I know he would," replied the officer. "He would grant you almost any favor you
                  might ask of him. Here is his royal word, and his royal seal,—examine it that you
                  may know I am not practising any fraud on you; and if you are satisfied, and will
                  start this evening, the Countess Alfierdermo de Seduli will take pleasure in being
                  your friend and protector on your journey."
               As soon as the officer stated that the king would take measures to restore
                  Wellington to her Saffi, no other thought appeared to occupy her mind, and she was
                  now as willing as she was at first
                  reluctant to go. She accompanied the officer to the hotel of the countess, and
                  with a light and happy heart, thanked God for his goodness—that goodness which had
                  afforded her the means of joying, in view of making others happy.
               The Countess de Seduli, an austere and not very accomplished lady—somewhat
                     passè, withal—soon entered the saloon where
                  Tzella waited; and though astonished at the poor and dusty garb, the worn shoes,
                  and the outrè
                  capalina of her guest, was more, astonished at
                  the suavity of her manners (which betokened noble rather than plebian blood), the
                  splendor of her eyes, her marble complexion, and general conduite courtoise.
               
               "You will journey with us to Genoa, I understand," said the Countess.
               "If it is your pleasure," said Tzella, courtesying very low.
               "We feel that we shall be exceedingly honored," replied the countess, "for we hear
                  much of the importance of various kinds of information, you have imparted to our
                  government."
               "I am little worthy of these high compliments," said Tzella, in a most humble
                  manner. "It is true, I told of what accidently came to my ears at Vienna, and
                  which I ever blush to recall; and something concerning some copper ores in the Val
                  de Mazzara."
               "And how did you know anything of minerals, since very few of the best educated
                  here can recognize one stone from another?" resumed the countess.
               "Long years of service in the deep mines of Cuba gave me that knowledge which has
                  made me very, happy, and, which now gives me inexpressible delight to recall."
               "And how could you be happy under ground? You utterly astonish me."
               "I seemed ever to be communing with Nature and God—and both seemed to me ever
                  true; but since then, all the world appears false, and I have hardly found one
                  noble heart in which I could put my trust. Saffi is one of Nature's guileless
                  children, and so has twined my heart with hers. But perhaps you do not know Saffi,
                  whose lover I came here to seek?"
               "I am sorry to say, since you speak of her so highly, that I never heard of
                  her."
               "She is a poor girl of the country, but she has a heavenly soul. For a long time
                  she nourished me as a sister, and then taught me the little Italian I now speak.
                  It was when seeking for her lover that I disclosed those facts to government
                  through il Senor Alfierdermo."
               "Alfierdermo!" exclaimed the countess. "My husband?"
               "I do not know, madam, except that he is noble, good, and kind; and ascertaining
                  that one Smithers had something to do with my task, took a deep interest in
                  it."
               "Ah! some of his English acquaintances. I suppose," remarked the countess, with
                  some irony.
               "Yes, madam," replied Tzella, "and he knows the bad character of the man from Mr.
                  Wellington; and finds out that he can restore some valuable property to Saffi,
                  left to her by her uncle, whom Smithers is thought to have murdered."
               "And do you know anything of one Mrs. Jones?" asked the countess, with a searching
                  look.
               
               "Jones, Jones," said Tzella, very thoughtfully. "I have a strange confusion of
                  ideas at the sound of that name, and my heart beats quicker, as it seems to me it
                  used to when I was a child; but now I do not remember anything," and bowing down
                  her head she remained for a long time as if in the deepest meditation.
               "Well, never mind now," said the countess, after a pause; "perhaps during our
                  journey you will recall some early events that will bring her more clearly before
                  you. There is something in your face which wonderfully interests me, and I shall
                  try and make your return to Genoa pleasant to you;" but there was a very doubtful
                  expression playing about the features of the speaker.
               "As we are soon to start," resumed the countess, "to what hotel shall I send for
                  your baggage?"
               "I have none," replied Tzella.
               "None!" exclaimed the lady. "How did you come here, then?"
               "As I am now," was Tzella's answer.
               "Poor thing!" said the countess. "But there is a remedy that need not detain us. I
                  have a daughter of just your age, who will accompany us. Her garments, I think,
                  will fit you, and if you will condescend to wear them, I should be happy to have
                  you do so. Come with me to her chamber, and I will introduce you, and she will
                  soon provide you with all you need."
               "You are very kind," said Tzella, "and I would most willingly accept your offer,
                  if I thought I could ever repay you."
               "Do not mention that subject, for by serving one whom the king is pleased to
                  honor, we are already paid."
               Tzella, soon arrayed, was more lovely even than Lady Alfierdermo had imagined; and
                  as she, accompanied by the countess and the countess's daughter, stepped into the
                  carriage that waited at the door to bear her back to the home of the loved Saffi,
                  people crowded around to gaze on her.
               "That was your father, I think?" said Tzella to her young companion,—referring to
                  the officer who affectionately kissed them at parting.
               "No, he is my uncle; but I love him as a father, for he is always so good and
                  kind. He even gave mother a portion of his palace as a residence, and since then
                  we have lived there instead of at pa's; for pa is always so busy, and has to spend
                  all his time with his old, decrepid, cross fool of a father. I hate these business
                  men! Officers only are to my taste!" and the pert miss tossed her head, forgetting
                  she was called the daughter of a merchant.
               "Why did you suppose that that gentleman was her father?" said Lady Alfierdermo to
                  Tzella.
               "Wy, because she is the exact image of him," was Tzella's reply.
               Lady Alfierdermo blushed, put an elegantly embroidered handkerchief over her eyes,
                  and remained silent.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLV.
               SMITHERS at last reached Genoa; but the physical sufferings, the agony of mind,
                  the tauntings of conscience which he had endured throughout this journey, so
                  distorted every virtuous or rational principle of his soul, that his every desire
                  and design was as diabolical as anything of human origin could be. For days and
                  days he stole, fox-like, about the streets in search of Wellington. Not contented,
                  however, with his own personal efforts, he obtained the aid of a vile creature who
                  was instructed to entice the youth (if he found him) to an old deserted tower near
                  the lanterna, and there secure him till he
                  should reveal the place of concealment of the Bolaro documents,—then assist him to
                  a resting place under the blue waters of the gulf.
               One morning, when almost despairing, who should Smithers descry mid the crowd at
                  the banqui, but the object of his most unnatural
                  hate! In an instant, his hand clutched a knife that lay concealed in his bosom,
                  and he exclaimed, he thought—"accursed devil!" but choking with rage, he had only
                  hissed out unintelligible accents.
               "'Tis fortunate," said Smithers, "my cry did not attract attention—more fortunate
                  that I was not near enough to the viper to strike him, for that would have
                  defeated my plans."
               Wellington, not recognizing the emaciated, cadaverous, bearded visage of Smithers,
                  proceeded directly home, little dreaming who followed; though he was, the whole
                  way, wondering if Saffi's claim and his father's villainy could be established: as
                  on that depended not only much of his own happiness, but even the life and
                  freedom, perhaps, of his betrothed.
               Smithers did not for an instant lose sight of the youth, who, the moment after he
                  entered Alfierdermo's house, was being inquired after with astonishing
                  pertinacity; and, as the porter to whom the questions were being put did not
                  imagine any evil, responded frankly to the inquisitor,—telling him of the
                  structure of the house, the position of each room and who were its occupants, the
                  shape of the hall, and even the character of the window-fastenings,—till at last,
                  becoming distrustful, ordered the stranger about his business.
               The knowledge Smithers had now obtained he felt was almost sufficient; for every
                  word the servant had uttered to him was indelibly and distinctly fixed in his
                  mind. To make his scheme more sure, however, he induced his accomplice to get
                  access to the house under some pretence or other, see the young man and his
                  apartment, if possible, and note the easiest mode of reaching it. Thus far all was
                  favorable. The Italian got into familiar conversation with the porter, and learned
                  that the window to the main hall opened on terraced ground, separated from a
                  private passage-way by a high wall; but as regarded Wellington's room, he was
                  mistaken, for the man said the one on the right (meaning from the entrance) was the young Englishman's, and the first on
                  the left that of Saffi Bolaro.
               The facts Smithers was now in possession of afforded him the liveliest
                  satisfaction, while the doubt, if he had cherished one about the documents being
                  in Alfierdermo's palace, was wholly removed when he learned that the daughter of
                  Bolaro was under the same roof with his son; and, if the determination to murder
                     one individual had become a fixture in his mind, he now resolved
                  that the lives of all the inmates of that dwelling should not stand in his way to
                  the obtaining the papers he sought.
               The evil-disposed are never wanting in opportunity to do evil! The night agreed on
                  between Smithers and his accomplice for the robbery, was stormy and of course
                  favorable. Smithers, aided by the Italian, scaled the wall almost fearlessly, for
                  he had a well-sharpened instrument, with which he was certain of cutting his way
                  to an escape, if attacked. When once upon the terrace, a heavy iron bar was passed
                  to him by a rope, and with that he proceeded to the window, and, as he supposed,
                  to his most difficult task. Sooner, however, than he expected, he succeeded in
                  raising the bolt at the bottom, by many times lifting the whole frame and letting
                  it return to its place again. This he was enabled to do, from the fact that
                  between the top of the sash and the capstone there was a space of about an eight
                  of an inch, and each time the bar allowed the frame to return that distance to its
                  place, it lifted thus much of the fastening.
               Young Wellington, having been apprised by the porter of the inquiries a suspicious
                  looking person had made about him, was cautious and watchful; and it would be
                  almost safe to say, that at the moment Smithers stepped from the terrace into the
                  house, the son stepped from his bed to his door, conscious that something
                  dreadfully wrong was going on. To a guardian spirit Wellington may have been
                  indebted for the timely warning. Looking through the keyhole, he saw a ray of
                  light on the marble pavement of the hall, and, in a second more, a man go stealing
                  along with a knife and lantern in hand, directly to the door opposite his own—the
                  first door on the right—and bend down to listen. What! was his Saffi, his own dear
                  Saffi, to be the victim of an assassin? His blood seemed freezing about his heart,
                  and fearing he should become incapable of action if he delayed, grasped a pistol
                  from the wall, and flinging open his door, with a bound stood within reach of the
                  villain. Wellington made no demand, saw nothing but a murderer of his adored one,
                  and, sure of his work from his nearness to his foe, fired. The suddenness of his
                  movement and the lightness of his step had given but a faint warning to the ear of
                  Smothers, who had only time to clutch his knife and turn to see if what he heard
                  was not the effect of fright, ere he fell mortally wounded, exclaiming—"my son! my
                  son!"
               "The deed is done," said Wellington to himself, and feeling that he was a
                  murderer, sprang to his room, bolted his door and buried himself in bed. At the
                  report of the pistol the "accomplice" fled, and the police gathered about the
                  house; while Alfierdermo, hastening from his sick father's room, where he had been
                  sitting, still dressed, gate the alarm of murder. The porter rushed into the
                  street, and the police into the house, and in five minutes were bearing off Signor Fiello to prison, leaving a
                  guard by the body till some action could be had by the government.
               In the morning, Wellington issued from his room whistling a merry tune, but when
                  he saw the guard and the corpse, manifested extreme wonder. He then inquired about
                  his friend, Signor Alfierdermo the younger, and learning that he had been taken to
                  prison, shed tears of unfeigned sorrow. Meeting Saffi, he accompanied her to
                  attend on the aged invalid, who was now deprived, not only of a dear son, but a
                  kind and tender nurse.
               Almost distracted, Wellington passed the day with the sick man. He did not dare to
                  say that he had murdered his father, and he could not harbor the thought that he
                  would be so vile as to allow his benefactor to suffer in his stead. For the
                  present, however, he could not act. He wished time to think how he ought to
                  proceed. At one moment he thought of flying, leaving a true statement of the
                  manner and cause of the murder; but then, the beautiful form of his Saffi stood
                  between him and the way. At another moment, he resolved to give himself up; but
                  then, a prison and a disgraceful death rose before him.
               Wellington passed a night of the acutest agony, and another day with his torments
                  unabated; and when evening came, the shadows of death would have seemed to him
                  almost like the wings of light,—so thoroughly was he imbued with the enormity of
                  his actions. At a late hour, he invited Saffi to the terrace, to talk with her on
                  what had occurred; hoping he should find courage enough to disclose his crime.
               "This is a dreadful affair, dear Saffi," said Wellington, placing himself on a
                  seat by his betrothed; "who do you suppose could have committed this murder?"
               "Murder, do you say?" replied Saffi; "this is not murder; for I doubt not that our
                  good friend Signor; Alfierdermo did kill the wretch in self-defence. The assassin
                  was found with lantern and knife, and the window was open, and his object was
                  robbery and murder; and to kill such an one implied only a proper courage, and
                  cannot virtually, though it may legally, tarnish the fair name of our friend."
               "Why then, did he deny the act?
               Doubtless from fear of being called a murderer. For it is possible he loves some
                  one, who, on the instant, he might think would cast him off, and make of him a
                  vagabond."
               "And if he were in love with you, could you look upon him again as the same pure
                  creature which you previously deemed worthy your idolatry?"
               "Indeed I could," was Saffi's quick reply.
               "Let me now suppose a case, having many things in common with this, but in one
                  point differing very materially. Suppose a being, calling himself a man, should,
                  under the guise of love and honor, seduce an unsophisticated country girl from the
                  paths of innocence, make her abandon the world, her friends and all for him, and
                  then doom her—a weak and feeble mother—to years of toil, misery and destitution,
                  and finally, death; then, that that monster should spurn her child, kick him from
                  his doors, and hunt him to the death, and the child thus tasked should stab his
                  father to the heart; what charity should you feel for that poor son?" and here the
                  big tears rolled down his cheeks, but Saffi saw them not.
               "What charity, dear Carlo, do you say? Do you not know the heart of your Saffi
                  well enough to judge what my feelings would be?"
               
               "Yes, you would brand him a Cain, and think him worse—as much worse than a
                  fratricide as a father should be dearer than a brother."
               "How you misjudge me, Carlo! In this, case the man is no more than an assassin—is
                  not a father; rejects his child whom he should have cherished, and makes him more
                  a stranger than one of no consanguinity."
               "Heaven has blessed you with a good heart," exclaimed Wellington, seizing the hand
                  of the girl, and pressing it to his lips, while scalding tears fell fast upon the
                  little treasure; "and if you can so pity and forgive one whom you have seen only
                  in my story, pity and forgive your own Charles, who is the murderer of his
                  father;" and he could proceed no further; but burying his face in his hands, was
                  bowed in sorrow to the earth.
               "You! Carlo," said Saffi, throwing her arms wildly around his
                  neck.
               "I am the murderer, but I did not know it was he," replied Wellington, after a
                  little pause. "I thought him a robber; and as he sought your door, and had a knife
                  in his hand, I knew any alarm from you would be your death; so I sprang upon him,
                  and before I could see who it was, I killed him. He knew me, spoke my name, but it
                  was too late—in an instant he was still."
               "Oh, heavens! Carlo, why did you not say that at once? Your silence
                  only has made it a crime, and that compelled you to add to it by permitting our
                  best, our kindest friend, to be incarcerated for you. Why Carlo, was your usual
                  prudence neglected? Why your generous nature dormant? They would not have harmed
                  you when they had heard your story. The aspect of things is now changed by delay,
                  and I know not what to counsel;" and for a long time, weeping on the bosom of her
                  lover, she remained silent.
               "Saffi, I know that I am vile, and unworthy of your love," said Wellington, in a
                  slow and solemn tone; "but show me now how I can act honorably, and redeem myself
                  in your eyes, and I will do it, even though it brings my neck to the block."
               "To-night, dear Carlo, I cannot advise anything; but in the morning, after I have
                  called, by my most fervent prayers, the aid of the Virgin Mother, I will tell you
                  my thoughts, and will assist you in doing justice to all your fellow
                  creatures,—trusting in the mercy of Heaven for our reward. Adio, adio," and leaving Wellington still sitting on the terrace,
                  she returned to the apartment of the aged invalid, to see what might be wanting,
                  then passed to her own room to spend the night in pleading with the Holy
                  Mother.
               Wellington, little knowing of the fervency and power of the supplications and
                  thanksgivings that ascended for him like sweet incense towards heaven, paced the
                  terrace, longing for morning and the time to come when he could commence to act,
                  and retrace the steps he had taken in an evil and dishonorable way.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER 
                     LXVI
                     XLVI
                  .
               THE marchioness, from the moment the carriage left the door of the hotel in the
                  Corso, was untiring in her attentions to the young English girl. Her object was to
                  win confidence, and afterwards obtain some information concerning her husband
                  while in London. Moreover, if Tzella was to become, for instance, a maid of honor
                  to the queen, or be received as a guest into the palace of the king, she might be
                  of service to her in her ambitious views for herself and the officer who so
                  affectionately parted with her in Rome.
               "I do not wonder," said the marchioness, "that the king takes such an unbounded
                  fancy to you, you are so very beautiful."
               "I thank you," replied Tzella, "but his majesty has never seen me."
               "Then he will be the more pleased," was the lady's ready reply, "for no one could
                  have described to him all the perfections of which you are possessed."
               The marchioness's daughter, not understanding the cue, looked at the girl, gave to
                  her lip a contemptuous curl, shrugged her shoulders, then turned her face to the
                  opposite side of the carriage. Tzella noticed it, heaved a long drawn sigh, and
                  remained silent, wondering why beings should dislike each other without cause.
               The lady gave her daughter a look of reproof, and continued: "You said you were
                  from England, I believe. What part of that country?"
               "From Cornwall, madam."
               "They call you Tzella, and la Stella Bianca; but
                  what was your father's name, may I ask?"
               "I do not know," replied Tzella, as if perfectly unconscious that there could be
                  any harm in not knowing who her father was; "but I called Mrs. Wellington, mother,
                  though she told me I was not her child. She sometimes said that my own mother was
                  too poor to take care of me, and then that she was dead; but I had a hope and a
                  belief always, that I should some day see my mother and father, and love
                  them."
               "Do you remember of ever hearing the name of Jones mentioned when you were a
                  child?" the marchioness, carelessly, repeating a previous question.
               "O, yes; I remember now that Mrs. Wellington once spoke very harshly of her, and
                  young Charles mentioned her with terrible oaths; but I do not know why."
               This, though approaching near the subject that much interested, or had at least
                  greatly excited the curiosity of the marchioness, was far from being satisfactory.
                  She had been apprized of the friendship that had existed between her husband and
                  Mrs. Jones; for Mrs. Smithers, in the early stages of that attachment, desirous of
                  creating all the mischief she could—and make her own stable virtues more
                  conspicuous, as they stood in comparison with the character of others as she,
                  represented them—had written to her a long and minute account of all she knew, and
                  a great deal she didn't know, concerning Signor Alfierdermo and Lady Jones.
               
               On the second day of their journey, a horseman dashed up to the carriage and
                  announced to the marchioness that her husband had been arrested for murder.
               "Who do you take me for?" asked the marchioness of the courier.
               "For the Marchioness d'Alfierdermo," was the respectful reply.
               "And dare you to say to me that my husband has been accused of
                  murder?"
               "I was ordered thus, by his dying father, to bring this report, with all haste, to
                  your ears."
               "And do you suppose that he whose name I bear, would so far dishonor
                     me as to become a murderer? Yet what could I expect from the son
                  of a merchant, except the money I wed him for!" and she threw herself back in her
                  carriage, and, muttering "disgraceful! disgraceful!" seemed regardless of all but
                  the stigma that she felt would necessarily attach to her name. After awhile she
                  composed herself with the not unpleasant reflection, that she need not always be
                  called Alfierdermo, for as soon as her present lowborn partner had forfeited his
                  life, she could wed a man she loved better.
               "Shall I not urge the coachman to proceed faster?" asked the courier.
               "No," replied the marchioness; "for we shall hear soon enough, and enough, of the
                  base act, by proceeding as we do now."
               The courier saw how things were, begged to know if there were any commands for
                  Genoa, then struck spurs into his horse and returned the way he came.
               How very different were the feelings of the marchioness when, an hour afterwards,
                  having reached a little inn where they were to pass the night, a courier arrived
                  from Rome, bringing intelligence that the friend whom she lately parted with,
                  Colonel Macarani, had been thrown from his horse and dangerously hurt. Now almost
                  frantic, she thought neither of food or rest, nor hardly of her child; but, giving
                  orders for fresh post-horses and another carriage, and enjoining on her young
                  companions to remain where they were till her return, set out for Rome. All night
                  long, with only the necessary delay at the post stations, she was urging the
                  driver to the utmost speed, and seemed to think the noble animals lagging because
                  they did not keep pace with her impatience.
               In an incredible short space of time the rain was drawn in front of the palace of
                  Colonel Macarani, and, without announcing her distinguished presence, the
                  marchioness flew up the marble stairs to the well-known apartment of her friend,
                  and putting aside the domestics, exclaimed—"My God! tell me if he still lives!"
                  then threw herself on her knees beside the bed of the sufferer, and looked the
                  picture of despair. The colonel recognized the voice, but as it pained him to
                  speak, he replied to the ten thousand questions that were put to him, by gently
                  pressing the hand to which his own had been extended on the approach of his dear
                     amica.
               
               The physicians having stated that it would be impossible for Colonel Macarani to
                  leave his bed for some weeks, the Marchioness Alfierdermo concluded to remain and
                  attend on him. In consequence of this, on the following day she despatched a
                  servant to inform her daughter that she
                  and the young English lady must proceed alone to Genoa, as it was not in her power
                  at present to join them.
               That the Marchioness Alfierdermo was now for the first time in her life humanely
                  and usefully employed, few doubted who knew her, but none there then knew that her
                  husband was in chains in prison, and that her father-in-law was breathing his
                  last, without one dear friend to comfort him.
               The marchioness's daughter and Tzella arrived at last safely at the capital, and,
                  after the necessary preparations, the latter was presented to the king. Need we
                  say his majesty was more than charmed—more than delighted? He had expected to see
                  a masculine and ruddy English girl, but instead, he beheld one of the most
                  strangely delicate creatures his eyes ever rested on. To one who had penetration,
                  Tzella's face, too, offered a world of thought, and told of a world of feeling;
                  and the king had no sooner looked on her than he resolved to adopt her into his
                  family.
               But, while there was calmness and contentment in some places, there was a sad
                  scene enacting in another. Signor Alfierdermo, the elder, had lost the care of his
                  only child, who for years had been his constant attendant as his clerk, his
                  counsellor, his factor, his nurse; and learning the cause of the sad bereavement,
                  sank rapidly as if stricken by some new and mighty malady. Only a few days after
                  his son was taken from him he became unconscious of his identity, imagined himself
                  a bag of money about to be untied and scattered to the four winds, and so slept
                  with his fathers.
               The news of Alfierdermo's death reached Fiello in prison. The blow was not fatal
                  to him, still it so shattered his soul that for a long time he was bereft of all
                  reason. With his teeth he gnawed the bars of iron that crossed his window, while
                  his hands were torn and bleeding in his attempts to wrench the grating from his
                  doors; and not until overcome by fatigue did he desist in his mad attempts to
                  break from his confinement to fly to his father. His keepers thought he was
                  writhing under a guilty conscience, and occasionally derided him, and laughed at
                  his impotent rage. Thank heaven, he knew not what they said! He heard nothing; for
                  the grief of his heart had drowned all else. If he had a moment's calm, it was
                  when there stole into his brain the image of his long lost Lorma;—then he clasped
                  his hands, looked heavenward, and smiling through his tears, kneeled down to pray.
                  If his loved one could have seen him in these struggles, she would have died of
                  grief. If Wellington could have seen him, he would have been overwhelmed by
                  remorse.
               The kind and tender-hearted Saffi was a daily visitant at the prison of Signor
                  Fiello, and few were better calculated to relieve the anguish of his mind than she
                  was. One day, on returning home, who should call to her from a carriage, but her
                  loved Tzella, arrived from Rome! Tzella, the lost and lovely, was still safe! When
                  the first joy of their meeting was over, they were driven to Alfierdermo's palace,
                  and there "set down"; Tzella, with a grateful heart, taking leave of her companion du voyage. The marchioness's daughter,
                  doubtless glad to be rid of company no ways congenial, possessing personal and
                  mental charm of which she was sure she could never boast— hastened to her mother's splendidly furnished
                  apartments in the palace of Colonel Macarani, where there were waiting to receive
                  her, servants, civil and military, over whom for a time she was to reign as
                  mistress.
               "And who was that young lady in the carriage with you?" asked Saffi, after she had
                  inquired about the cause of Tzella's long absence, her health, and her
                  wanderings.
               "That was Signor Alfierdermo's daughter," said Tzella.
               "Ah! the one I have heard him speak of. But he solemnly assured his father, in my
                  presence, one day when speaking about a will, that she was not his
                  daughter."
               "Not his daughter!" exclaimed Tzella.
               "No, but of a colonel in whose palace they have always resided; for as soon as
                  they were married—and it was a marriage for money on one side, and for title (the
                  longing of the father) on the other—Signor Alfierdermo, who never loved her, and
                  only wed her to gratify his aged parent whom he more regarded than his own life,
                  started for England. For reasons no one knew, he was long absent; and as his lady
                  would not be under the surveillance of old Alfierdermo, she took apartments in the
                  Macarani palace, where she has ever since resided—probably never seeing the kind,
                  good old father-in-law unless it happened to be in the public streets.
               "This, then, accounts for that strange indifference they both manifested when the
                  courier arrived and announced that Signor Fiello Alfierdermo was in prison for
                  murder; and the extravagant fury and impatience the mother showed when another
                  from Rome brought intelligence of the illness of Colonel Macarani."
               "Yes, it solves it all; and, doubtless, if Signor Alfierdermo should perish—heaven
                  forefend!—in this inexplicable charge against him, she will soon be the bride of
                  the colonel."
               "But this reminds me of the poor prisoner. What can be done for him?" I know he is
                  innocent, and some vile wretch should be in his place."
               "Do not say vile wretch, dear Tzella, for he may have done it
                  innocently;" and she laid her hands on those of her friend, but cast her eyes upon
                  the floor.
               "What do you mean, dear Saffi? You speak and act as though you knew something of
                  it," said Tzella.
               "I do know something of it, dear friend," replied Saffi, "but I must not say even
                  to you what I suspect. If you love me, however, and feel that I have
                  ever done you a service, promise me that if you have any influence
                  with the king (one of whose household I learn you are soon to become), you will
                  use it all in saving the life of the individual who has done the deed for which
                  our noble and benevolent friend is now suffering."
               "With all sacredness I do promise it; and if the forfeit of my poor life can serve
                  you, dear Saffi, it is ever, ever at your disposal."
               Not long after the interview between the Montuna
                  and the Stella Bianca, the latter took a most
                  affectionate leave of her dear friend, and proceeded on her way to see the king,
                  to whom, as we have said, after due preparations she was presented.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLVII.
               ONE day, at Schonbrunn, the Empress Charlotte, the Kmperor, and the Duke de
                  Reichstadt, were thrown into a state of the greatest excitement by an announcement
                  from the minister of foreign affairs, that he had received notice from the King of
                  Sardinia that the estate known as the "Val de Mazzara," said now to be claimed by
                  the Duke de Reichstadt, but belonging, by right of purchase, to a worthy native,
                  named Bolaro, had been taken possession of by the crown, in virtue of its being
                  mineral land—the right to all mines and metals within that sovereign's dominions
                  never having been forfeited—pertaining to the crown from time immemorial.
               "Has he dared to do that?" exclaimed the empress, in the utmost fury of voice and
                  gesture, much to the alarm of the minister.
               "He has an undoubted right to act thus," said the emperor, "and a
                  good policy has dictated it."
               "Sire," exclaimed the young Reichstadt, throwing himself at the feet of his
                  grandfather, "if you cherish for me a particle of love—if you value my life as
                  anything, save for me that priceless heritage—all that was bequeathed to me by my
                  father, except the glory of his name."
               "Rise, my son," said the emperor, "and listen a moment. If the request you make
                  was within our power to grant, it should be done; but our own sense of the
                  necessity of repelling any interference with our internal polity, shows to us the
                  necessity of regarding that of other kingdoms; while the nations with whom we have
                  recently entered into solemn compact, would not permit any infringement of that
                  law which is not peculiar to that government."
               The empress listened, and bit her lip. The young duke retired, and rushing to the
                  apartment of his still divine Fanny, threw himself into her arms, and in an agony
                  no pen can describe, poured out his last lamentations. I say his last
                  lamentations, for he never again left his room; and from that day refrained from
                  mentioning any subject which he thought would embitter his few remaining days, or
                  make her unhappy whom only he really loved. The fact was, the luxury
                  and bliss he had found at home deprived him of any permanent wish for other
                  society than that he there enjoyed, while the very voluptuousness of the existence
                  in which he revelled, thoroughly enervated him, and brought him thus prematurely
                  to the borders of the grave.
               When the young duke had sufficiently recovered to utter his thoughts in the ear of
                  the fair creature to whom he still clung, as though sure of forfeiting her if he
                  loosened his grasp, he said:
               "Ah! how bitter is this hour, when I feel that we are to separate for ever."
               "Separate!" exclaimed Fanny, with startling earnestness.
               "I had hoped, continued the duke, not hearing the voice of his angel, "that this
                  trial would not come till my soul left this feeble tenement."
               
               "What painful thoughts are these, my dear duke?" pleadingly inquired Fanny.
               "I had hoped," continued Reichstadt, "that as my tenuous thread of life was soon
                  to snap asunder, it would be with the full conviction that I had left you an
                  estate and a name that would secure to you independence and the highest
                  considerations. But, alas! the Fates are hopelessly set against me. My fortunes
                  must follow my father's, though I have the double sorrow of knowing that the news
                  of the wreck of this frail barque he set afloat on the ocean of life, will reach
                  him at the very time he most needs the incense of filial love to sustain him mid
                  his own mighty afflictions."
               "For heaven's sake tell me, my dear duke, what all this signifies!" said the
                  divine danseuse, as she fervidly kissed the pale
                  forehead now resting on her throbbing bosom. "Do not distract me by this delay—do
                  not kill me with words of whose meaning I am ignorant, and to which I have no
                  conscious clue."
               "Indeed, sweet girl!" replied Reichstadt, gazing at his Fanny with all the
                  intensity the flickering light in his soul could throw into his eyes, "you have
                  not then guessed the purport of my words and actions. Well, it is not strange; for
                  my intellect has grown feeble with my frame, and as you said yesterday, 'the
                  hectic flush of death has gnawed out the bloom of youth.' But perhaps I do you
                  great injustice in thinking you would leave me, for I now remember that we have
                  both recently cherished a new hope that has gilded our chains afresh."
               "Leave you, my dear Reichstadt! Leave you, with whom I
                  have been so happy—you, who have given your very life to render mine
                  felicitous—you, whom I now see, to my eternal sorrow and regret, fast sinking to
                  the grave."
               "But before you add the word 'never,'" said the young duke, interrupting her,
                  "hear the reason I had for my cruel thoughts. The estate, the Val de Mazzara,
                  which I gave to you, has been wrested from me by the Sardinian government, and the
                  emperor asserts that no redress can be had."
               "Is that all, my dear duke?" said Fanny, undisturbedly.
               "Is not that enough?" replied Reichstadt, energetically. "All that I had to give,
                  except my love, I gave; and now all that I gave has gone, except my love. At all
                  this the emperor stirs not. Do you think my father, were he free, would thus allow
                  a foreigner to trample with impunity on my rights? And now what have you to say?
                  And when will you desert me?"
               "Reichstadt!" said Fanny, as the big tears coursed down her cheeks, "I cannot do
                  justice to myself in the reply I would now make to you, unless I first debase
                  myself in your sight, and tell you all. First let me assert that I will never
                  leave you so long as you will let me remain by your side to watch over you and
                  wait on you, for you are fast approaching the day when you will need a kind hand,
                  a loving heart, to minister to your wants; and I know the empress will be far from
                  aiding you."
               "Why do you say that?" exclaimed the duke, as if gasping for breath in a
                  conviction that there was a plot against his life.
               
               "Promise me, first, to forgive me, and then to believe me in all that I say, and I
                  will reveal to you the reason why I speak thus."
               "I do promise all pardon and love that this poor heart possesses," replied the
                  duke, faintly.
               "Know, then, my dear Reichstadt, that the bribe with which you thought you won me,
                  was not for myself; I sought it for the empress, and for that I was brought
                  hither."
               "O, God! is that true? You did not come, then, because you loved me?"
               "At first, I did not; but as soon as I knew you intimately, and saw that you had a
                  kind and truthful heart, I gave myself wholly up to the agreeable life of making
                  you happy. If I assented too readily to the schemes and machinations of the
                  empress, remember I was too young to weigh well the consequences of my acts, and
                  young enough to be dazzled by the splendor of a court, the favor of a sovereign,
                  and the devotion of a duke. Now, I find that in the fulfilment of the very design
                  she had in view, and to which I lent myself, is the punishment for my crime. I am
                  to lose you whom I prize more than life, and to whom I have ever been faithful;
                  and again, houseless and friendless, I am to be turned upon the wide world."
               "Alas! this now is my only sorrow," replied the duke, in a tone more from the
                  grave than human form. "I die willingly, and could die happy, if I knew that you
                  would be well cared for. But what feeling has the world? What pulse of benevolence
                  throbs in its vast senseless heart? Ask my father; for he knows too well!" Here
                  the duke was overcome with emotion, and, being assisted to his bed, laid down to
                  rise no more.
               What the divine Fanny had said of herself was strictly true. Too young to know
                  that her acts would result in other than the most trivial consequences; flattered
                  and caressed by the noblest of the empire, made a goddess of—a faultless
                  divinity—no wonder she was led into an error of the head, though her heart was
                  good and true. When she discovered that in the Duke de Reichstadt there was a
                  truthfulness and oneness of purpose, that he possessed a mind too lofty to suspect
                  others of baseness, and that his nature was genial, sunny, hopeful, though his
                  frame was delicate, she loved him with an intensity she did not think herself
                  capable of; she loved him too much.
               
               For a long time the young duke had been growing feeble, and when the last blow
                  came which we have just described, his spirits gave way. In a few weeks from this
                  time, in the vault of the venerable church of the Capuchins, which enshrines a
                  long line of the Austrian dynasty, was placed a rather small metalic coffin, which
                  contained the remains of the only son of the Emperor Napoleon.
               Charlotte was not satisfied; for, between the chagrin of losing the so long
                  coveted pass through the heart of an enemy's country, and the satisfaction of
                  seeing placed beyond power to do harm, the young whelp of the lion of empires whom
                  she hated, she found her repose on other than a bed of roses.
               When her grief had sufficiently subsided, the divine Fanny glided again upon the
                  stage as gracefully as she had left it.
               It was now a good time for the Prince de Carignano of Genoa to renew his suit, and
                  he was about to proceed to Vienna for that purpose, when he was arrested by
                     order of his king. To say that the
                  prince was astonished would convey but a faint idea of his emotions, for he was
                  sure that nothing but a miracle could have revealed to his sovereign aught of his
                  intrigue. But the truth was, the Sardinian government had been as astute with
                  spies as Austria, and the boatman who had so urged Phosphoro to attend the
                     Carlo Felici was the man who had watched the
                  prince's movements when abroad, and learned from the nobleman's servants his very
                  thoughts and plans when at home.
               What served to limn the whole affair in bold lines, was the prince's being thrown
                  into the same prison-room that Signor Alfierdermo occupied. In the character of
                  these men how great the contrast! The prince was ambitious, haughty, unprincipled;
                  Alfierdermo quiet, engaging, honorable. The prince was a traitor; Alfierdermo
                  would have yielded up his heart's blood to save his country's escutcheon from a
                  shadow of obloquy.
               "We must now consider ourselves as equals, I suppose," said the prince to
                  Alfierdermo, when he entered the prison and saw who his companion was.
               "Perhaps not," said Alfierdermo, reservedly.
               "And why not? since here I am no longer a prince, and misfortune, like misery,
                  often makes strange bed-fellows. It is true, when in the world I thought little of
                  merchants' sons, but, under present circumstances, distinctions may cease."
               "But perhaps you forget that innocence does not willingly make a bed-fellow of
                  guilt."
               "I infer from that then," said the prince haughtily, "that you consider yourself
                  innocent, and me guilty."
               "I am indeed innocent," replied Fiello; "as to yourself, I know not if you can say
                  as much."
               "I can; for I am suspected of treason solely for having had under my protection an
                  Austrian dancing girl."
               "I am accused of murder, which grew out of my endeavoring to protect an English
                  dancing-girl."
               "You tried to protect her from her lawful husband, I suppose; and had to kill him
                  to do it," said the prince, tauntingly.
               "Heaven forbid! no. Believe me, my dear prince, I am innocent, and sought only the
                  good of the child, towards whom my heart was most strangely drawn, and in whom I
                  was deeply interested. But time will reveal all. Give me your hand; let us be
                  friends while we are prisoners, and try and make the long, painful, dreary hours
                  drag less wearily away.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLVIII.
               ALUINE reached Genoa, and being "set down" at the hotel of the Quartre Nationes, hastened a note to her beloved
                  Fiello, announcing to him her arrival. O, how full of joy was every throb of her
                  heart! How her bosom heaved! How the electric fire of love sparkled in her eyes,
                  and streamed along from nerve to nerve, till to her fingers' ends she glowed and
                  trembled! Smiling through tears of expectation, listening in a delirium of
                  transport to the quick step that approached her door, the perfumed moments of an
                  hour fled away.
               "With your permission, madame, the Signor
                  Alfierdermo is dead," said the servant, as he extended a note in answer to the one
                  he had carried.
               "Dead!" ejaculated Aluine; and the color forsook her lips, and for a moment, like
                  Niobe turned to stone, she stood fixed, lifeless, cold. The servant, sure that the
                  lady had gone into a fit, dropped the note and rushed out for a medico, and, in a short time, succeeded in bringing
                  one to the apartment. During his absence, Aluine had sunk upon the floor, and
                  though one hand was extended towards the note, she was utterly insensible. Being
                  placed on a sofa, and the lancet applied to her beautiful arm which it was
                  sacrilegious to mar, she revived, and by the time she had sufficiently recovered
                  to think of the cause of her strange position, the physician, who had had the
                  prudence to avail himself of the contents of the missive, informed her of it. Now,
                  undeceived, there was aroused in her bosom—though the news was sad indeed which
                  the servant brought—a bright and glowing hope, which, growing each moment stronger
                  and stronger, reanimated and soon wholly restored her.
               "His poor father is dead!" said Aluine to herself, "and he, my Fiello, is in
                  prison—in prison for the murder of my own brother-in-law! But my Fiello is not
                     guilty of any crime; therefore he will be free! I can set him
                  free! I can—I shall—I must. My Fiello
                  guilty! No, I know he is not! He is my Fiello, and I
                     know no crime could ever stain his pure heart. I'll go at once,
                  and set him free; and then—Oh! how he will love me; Does he dream that his Aluine
                  comes to liberate him! Does he not have some consciousness now that I am near him?
                  Oh, yes! For I remember well, when in England, he never approached my house but I
                  felt it in my heart, and knew of his divine presence. But come, take me to where
                  that note was written, and then I will begin my new labor of love. O God! aid me
                  in this my great trial, and restore to me the most precious of mortals;
                     but—'Thy will, not mine, be done.'"
               The physician, sure that his patient's mind was still wandering, urged her to
                  remain a day or so quiet in her chamber, and promised to bring to her all the
                  information she desired to obtain; but all was of no avail. The servant ordered
                  the carriage, and in ten minutes, Aluine, with palpitating heart, was ascending
                  the broad, marble stairway of the palace of Alfierdermo.
               
               The old man dead, Fiello in prison, Saffi remained mistress of the house. She and
                  Wellington were inseparable; yet they had put aside all talk of love, of marriage,
                  of a blissful future; for there was resting on him a fearful responsibility no
                  sophistry could evade. That morning on which Aluine arrived in town, they had
                  spent in discussing, for the hundredth time, the probable consequences of a
                  confession of the crime laid to Signor Alfierdermo. Saffi had urged upon her Carlo
                  the necessity of explaining, at once, the whole transaction, as each day, she
                  assured him, would render his testimony less liable to belief; besides, there was
                  an innocent man—a friend—suffering such tortures as the refined only can suffer or
                  comprehend. It was at the close of one of these appeals, a stranger was announced,
                  and Aluine, the elegant, the accomplished, the beautiful Aluine Lorma entered the
                  saloon.
               "Whom have I the pleasure of receiving?" said Saffi, with an earnestness which
                  showed that she read in the face of the stranger, signs of deep anxiety.
               "Pardon me, sweet girl," said Aluine, "I come to seek Fiello Alfierdermo."
               "Signor Alfierdermo, my master and my good friend, alas! is in prison," said
                  Saffi, the tears flooding her eyes and coursing down her cheeks unchecked; "but
                  pray be seated."
               "I did not know whether I had heard such a report, or whether my disturbed fancy
                  had drawn a false picture for my too longing eyes," said Aluine; "for he was," she
                  continued as if talking now to herself, "my dearest, my only friend; and oh! how
                  poor a sacrifice I should deem this life of mine if it could save his. Precious
                  Fiello! Adored Fiello!" and again overcome by the depth of her love and sorrow,
                  she sank back upon the lounge, insensible.
               "Carlo!" exclaimed Saffi, "this must no longer last! A new misery, a new
                  misfortune is gathering about this dreadful affair. I feel myself implicated in
                  it, though I know that heaven will finally shield the innocent. Aid me in
                  restoring this beautiful woman, and when she is again able to understand an
                  explanation, I must, I shall tell her of the innocence of Alfierdermo. It is a
                  duty I owe to her, to her friend and to myself—my own sense of right. This lady is
                  doubtless his sister. What would you think of a man who, were you in prison, could
                  see your sister seeking for you with tears, and ready to give up her life to save
                  you, yet would not so much as tell her you were innocent, though he knew it? Oh,
                  Carlo! let us follow where justice and mercy lead, and leave the sequel to a
                  merciful Father. If we do wrongfully, no shrewdness, nor cunning, nor forethought,
                  nor prudence, nor discretion, nor mortal wisdom, can guide us in an indubitable
                  path, or save us from an evil consequent. If we do right, no harm can accrue from
                  it that will reflect discredit on us; and he who always acts thus may walk with a
                  fair brow in the face of heaven. Carlo, I say again—and the more I love you the
                  more earnestly I would demand it of you—this making victims of the innocent must
                  now end."
               From the decision of Saffi, Charles Wellington had no appeal to make. His
                  conscience told him that the truth had been spoken, and that the only just path he
                  could pursue, had been pointed out to him. His better judgment favored it all, but
                  he could not bring his spirit up to a resolution to submit to the trial; and as
                  soon as the strange lady showed signs
                  of returning consciousness, he went and shut himself up in his own apartment, to
                  reflect and resolve.
               "Has not my Fiello come?" said Aluine, starting up as if from a vivid dream.
               "No, my dear lady," said Saffi; "but I have pleasant news for you, which, perhaps,
                  will soon bring him."
               "Hope! Oh, hope!" shrieked the distracted woman. "Heaven bless thee, my child, for
                  a ray of hope!" and poor Aluine threw her arms around the neck of the kind Saffi,
                  and kissed her in a delirium of joy. "But," continued Aluine, still partially
                  crazed by her misery, "say on—say quick!—say he will soon come to me!—say I shall
                  see him again!—say again that he is innocent! Oh! forgive me that I rave
                  thus—forgive me, and speak truth to me and I will love thee, ever, ever;" and if
                  there had been truth in the heart of a stone, it would have leaped forth at such a
                  depth of feeling as the supplicant's words and looks expressed.
               "Be calm," said Saffi, in the mildest manner possible, "and I will tell you a
                  sweet truth. Signor Alfierdermo did not kill the man for whose murder he is in
                  prison."
               "No, no!" again shrieked Aluine, "I knew he did not kill him! My
                  Fiello can do no wrong!" and she leaned her burning forehead on the shoulders of
                  the fair Saffi, who felt the scalding tears of the afflicted lady swift following
                  each other down her bosom.
               "No, he did not," continued Saffi, "but my Carlo did; yet he too is innocent. He
                  saw the man creep to my door, and thinking him an assassin, shot him; then,
                  fearing the consequences, concealed his knowledge of the act, and so involved the
                  guiltless."
               "Dear girl!" exclaimed Aluine—a cheerful radiance spreading over her face, while a
                  new flood of joy seemed glistening through her tears; "why should he have doubted
                  the force and majesty of innocence? Hasten to him, oh, I pray you!—hasten and tell
                  him that I know if he acts honorably no one will accuse him of guilt; that in
                  killing an assassin he did the state a service; that if arraigned for the deed, I
                  will myself fly to the king and proffer my own life for his ransom."
               "If you will do that, kind lady, I know he will follow your advice. Besides, a
                  dear friend of mine, whom this same young man and myself once saved from the
                  grave, having recently been received into the special favor of the king, has
                  pledged me her sacred word to aid me if necessary, in this same fearful trial.
                  Yes; with these assurances, I am certain he will no longer hesitate, even were he
                  not urged to this just step by the agony of his own good and stricken spirit. Yes!
                  my Carlo is the same noble and generous creature who saved for me my pet lamb, and
                  kept my young heart from breaking. I will seek him now, and bring him to you."
               Aluine was left alone. Then there rushed back upon her senses all the horrors of a
                  failure in this mission, which within its little radius held every tender fibre of
                  her being. Contemplating the trial, the evidence, the sentence, the execution, she
                  sat for a while as if in a trance; but when Saffi returned to the room,
                  accompanied by a gentleman—the one who she (Aluine) supposed had in his keeping
                  more than her very life-springs—her native powers came back in all their
                  brilliancy and wonted energy.
               "'Tis he!" said Aluine to herself, "and he can kill or save me," and ere any
                  explanation of the gentleman's mission
                  could be made, she rose from her seat, threw herself on the floor before him, and
                  poured out the full tide of her sorrow. With the look and voice of an angel she
                  spoke to him of mercy. With a seraphic fervor she pleaded the cause of the
                  injured. Like a high priestess of the temple of wisdom, she awed her hearers, and
                  her words struck upon the heart like fire, and like molten gold sank into its
                  depths. Truth, beauty, purity of soul, sincerity, and love, crowned her ivory
                  temples with an effulgent circle. Every womanly charm, rounded by the goddesses of
                  grace, aided her in her supplications. Had she been silent, the very divinity of
                  her face, with those beautiful hands lifted in their mute eloquence, would have
                  obtained, of any being of feeling, the perfect realization of her petition. It was
                  a heart-rending picture—a type of the suffering Mary at the foot of the cross.
               "The sum of your request is——" (It was the crown advocate Aluine had been
                  supplicating. Having learned that Alfierdermo, whom he greatly esteemed and,
                  regarded as a personal friend, had been accused of murder in his own house, he had
                  come to see for himself if there was any foundation for the charge.)
               "That he whom I adore may be as free as he is good," said Aluine, interrupting
                  him, "for he is not—cannot be, a murderer. In proof of his innocence
                  I would die for him. The one who perished was my brother-in-law, but he was a
                  villain. The blood of more than one cries against him for vengeance. The fairest
                  and sweetest hopes of my own young days were swept away by him and his
                  accomplices, and years of agonizing doubts and fears were thus entailed upon me.
                  One, too, who confided in him with her whole soul, perished by his abandoning her;
                  while one of your own countrymen he murdered, (it is believed), for his
                  wealth."
               "All this, regarding the deceased, may be true," said the person addressed, and
                  before whom the suppliant still remained kneeling, "but who tells you the prisoner
                  is not guilty of the charge made against him?"
               "My heart tells me so," said Aluine, wringing her hands, as though a
                  doubt had been expressed, "and this young woman knows he is
                  innocent."
               Wellington having followed the advocate into the room, stood there unobserved; and
                  hearing all that was said by Aluine Lorma, and no longer doubting who she was,
                  made a final resolve to confess all.
               "Rise, generous and angelic stranger," said the advocate to Aluine, whose tears
                  still bedewed the pavement, "and pardon me that I have thus long permitted you to
                  kneel on this cold marble. I will be your friend and advocate in this startling
                  affair. Tell me," continued he, turning to Saffi, "all you know of this, that it
                  may speedily terminate to the benefit of those who suffer unjustly, and that the
                  criminal may meet his merited, punishment."
               "Of a crime no one is guilty," responded Saffi, rising to assist the
                  trembling Aluine to a seat; "no one, as you will now see, for I will explain
                  everything. My Carlo saw the man steal to my door, with a drawn knife, and being
                  sure that I was about to be the victim of an assassin, sprang upon him and killed
                  him. Carlo is here, and ready to swear to it all."
               "It is rumored that the deceased was known to some of you," said the advocate.
               
               "Yes, sir; Carlo knew him as an English villain, and, from circumstances, now
                  believes that he came to rob him of some papers legally belonging to me or to my
                  poor father Bolaro."
               "Your father!" cried Aluine, and she sprang forward and folded the
                  tender montuna passionately to her bosom; and as
                  sisters in sorrow, these two innocent creatures mingled their tears together.
               "Ah, now I begin to understand the mysteries which gathering reports have flung
                  about this intricate affair," said the advocate. "I know something of those
                  papers, and soon shall know more. As the trial will instantly be proceeded with,
                  and as your presence, and that of your household, will materially aid me in my
                  plea in your behalf, I command you, in the name of the king, to repair at once to
                  the royal palace. You will also excuse the necessity I am under, of placing you in
                  charge of a guard who will give you safe and courteous conduct. This security is
                  necessary, since I observe that one on whom you much depended for an elucidation
                  of the charges, has escaped."
               The advocate took most respectful leave of lady Aluine, who, with tears in her
                  eyes, prayers on her tongue, and a world of unutterable entreaties in her heart,
                  followed him to the door—now regarding him as a special messenger sent by heaven
                  to save her, and light the lanterna of hope over
                  the dark sea of desolation on which her sinking heart, like a shattered barque,
                  had so long been tossed.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLIX.
               A TRIAL for murder is ever, from its nature, one of the most impressive and
                  momentous affairs that can engage the attention of a court of justice; in this
                  instance it was peculiarly solemn. Signor Alfierdermo had long been well and
                  favorably known by all the respectable Genoese. As a man of high and honorable
                  purposes and benevolent actions; as one possessed of rare mental and physical
                  endowments; as an affectionate and devoted son and loyal subject, he was greatly
                  esteemed. Besides, the public had been apprised of some of his domestic
                  afflictions—that his father's eyes had been closed in death without those last
                  comforting words, attentions and consolations the filial affection of such a son
                  would have been sure to bestow.
               Fiello, bowed down with grief for his father, and with a heart deeply lacerated by
                  the long and continued silence of his ever adored Aluine, issued from his prison;
                  hardly heeding the clank of the chains with which his wrists were bound, or the
                  murmur of sympathy which went up from the crowd that gathered about him on his way
                  to trial. It is true that the numerous bronzed visages, red caps, and janty way,
                  now and then one of the throng had thrown his trimmed jacket over one shoulder,
                  were indicative of a lower class of citizens, yet no close observer could say
                  there was not heart there; for many an eye glistened with tears, and
                  many a quivering lip spoke of a burden within the breast. The guard, too, seeing the peoole's
                  respect for their prisoner, showed their own deference by allowing him to proceed
                  a step in advance of them.
               But of what avail were show, sympathy, courtesy, to Alfierdermo, who felt that
                  there was but one source of comfort left on earth—none, if his Crimora was no
                  more! Death to him was not appalling; on the contrary, the fairest garlands seemed
                  gathered about the gate of the tomb. He knew that with but one single step he
                  could stand In the bright spirit land, welcomed joyfully by many he had known on
                  earth; that in the very decay of nature the principle of a beautiful' regeneration
                  was involved; and though the future was cheering to him in that light, his
                  naturally sensitive disposition could hardly brook the thought, that those whom he
                  had reason to esteem and love and whose esteem and love he appreciated, should
                  harbor in their breasts a doubt of his innocence. Into this last and saddest
                  current his thoughts had diverged when he reached the palace, and a more than
                  usual pallor spread over his face as, placed under a double guard, he awaited the
                  summons from the Hall of Justice.
               While the above was going on, Wellington had maintained his resolve. Rushing from
                  the house like one filled with excessive joy or fear, he fled along the streets,
                  nor lagged in his step tin he had reached Tzella's abode. On his way a world of
                  doubts and fears were almost overwhelming his reason: he might be too late—Aluine
                  might be absent—his prayers might not be heeded; and if it should be so—if, in his
                  last and greatest conquest over self, he was but to reap bitter disappointment—in
                  the welcome shadows of the vale of death alone could he find relief.
               From the balcony, Tzella had seen Wellington approach, and, by his speed, knew
                  that something of moment impelled him. Hastening, therefore, to the stairway of
                  the inner court, she gave orders to the guard to admit him at once.
               "Now," said Wellington, as he entered one of the magnificent saloons of the
                  palace, "now, my dear Tzella—(pardon me, for I fear I am not prepared to do
                  justice to my interests) having once, as you have often told me, saved your life,
                  and having received your promise to aid me when it was in your power to do so, I
                  come now to have you plead with the king my cause and that of the suffering,
                  innocent Alfierdermo."
               "All that I have promised I will do, good Carlo," replied Tzella; "but go on."
               "And if you will but obtain from his majesty the pardon of the guiltless, I will
                  show to you your own, your long lost mother."
               "My mother!" exclaimed Tzella, in a strange, sepulchral tone, as if her thoughts
                  had gathered it from the tomb, "My mother, do you say?"
               "Yes," replied Wellington; "but do not look so wildly at me. Your mother, though
                  she knows not even that you live, you shall soon fold to your bosom; for when
                     you explain all to the king—all the circumstances of this dreadful
                  affair, I am sure of our pardon; then, she shall join you."
               "As I owe to you my life, so shall that life be given to save yours," responded
                  Tzella, solemnly; for the idea of beholding her mother filled her bosom with
                  feelings of such intensity, that one spray of joy or sorrow more would have sunk
                  the frail bark of her being in the sea of insanity.
               
               "Know, then, angel Tzella, that Smithers died by my hand. The villain, as you have
                  heard, was stealing with drawn knife to Saffi's door, doubtless thinking it mine.
                  I, supposing him an assassin, unperceived sprang upon him, and killed him, then
                  fled to my room. Signor Alfierdermo, found over the body, was of course thrown
                  into prison; while I, not having courage to tell of my seemingly unnatural act,
                  allowed the error to grow till it became difficult to overcome it. Kind heaven,
                  however, granted to me the sight of your beautiful mother pleading for our beloved
                  Fiello Alfierdermo, and a supernatural power only could have further delayed my
                  present declaration. He whom I killed was my own father; but he had disowned me,
                  and sent my poor mother to an early grave; and for the papers which I restored to
                  your sinless Saffi, came to add me to the number of his victims."
               "Good heavens!" exclaimed Tzella, "what fearful things you relate!"
               "Yet as heaven is my witness," continued Wellington, "they are true! Fly, then, to
                  the King, and tell him all; for the trial must have commenced, and a moment's
                  delay even, may make it too late to save the innocent. Say to him your own
                  mother's life depends on the result of your mission,—that for long years, through
                  heart-rending trials, she has been supported solely by her undying love for the
                  prisoner, and that she must now save him or perish!"
               "Ah, my dear mother! When am I to see her?"
               "Soon, soon, you shall see her! But go now, and, first of all, save Signor
                  Alfierdermo;" and with such an almost unearthly ardor did he speak, that his wish,
                  as far as it was in his faithful friend's power, was instantly, unhesitatingly
                  complied with.
               In a political and social point of view, Tzella had done the State great service,
                  and as yet had asked no boon. Now was the time, when, in a cause in which her
                  heart and (synonymous) humanity were engaged, she could speak with boldness and
                  energy. She did so, and with more effect than could have done the most eloquent
                  counsellor of the realm.
               "Your prayer to the very letter," responded the King, "shall receive my weighty
                  consideration; and the innocent, rest assured, shall not be harmed. Yes, and that
                  it may be as I promise, I will attend in person this extraordinary trial, and
                  sound it with the deep fathom-line of equity and mercy. This I would do for your
                  sake alone, noble girl; but I have a further incentive, in the fact that two of my
                  most worthy subjects are herein profoundly involved;" and allowing the fair
                  supplicant to kiss his hand, he departed at once for the Hall of Justice.
               According to express orders, no parade was permitted on this occasion, and the
                  king, as a private individual, presented himself in court, soliciting the
                  privilege of listening to arguments, pro and
                     con, in relation to the murder committed in
                  the dwelling of the esteemed citizen, Signor Alfierdermo. On the right of the
                  chief justice, a seat was assigned to (for the time being) disrobed royalty.
               The police who entered the palace, and found Alfierdermo over the body of the
                  deceased stranger, were the first examined. Their testimony was direct and
                  conclusive. The prisoner was the only one in the room where the body lay, and he
                  held a knife in his hand, with which he
                  doubtless committed the deed, but which he dropped as soon as discovered. It was
                  true the report of a pistol had been heard, but as no weapon, save the knife, was
                  found upon either of the parties, the act had unquestionably been done by the
                  instrument here shown.
               The defence was, that the deceased intended robbery and murder, and that the
                  prisoner had a right to kill him when found, on his (the prisoner's) premises with
                  such designs:—that the wound was evidently made by a ball, and not by a knife, and
                  that the blood on the instrument was the result of accident, and not from being
                  the weapon of death.
               The light, however, which for an instant seemed dawning on the affair, was soon
                  extinguished—the treacherous Crown Advocate recapitulating the testimony of the
                  police, and affirming that he could produce unequivocal evidence, that the
                  deceased was a wealthy and highly respectable English merchant—that he had been
                  assassinated for his wealth—for papers of great value, which, on his death, would
                  fall to a paramour of the prisoner, and consequently into the prisoner's hands;
                  that the witness he relied on was no less than the very noble Prince de Carignano
                  himself, who was ready to testify under oath to the truth of all of his (the
                  advocate's) declaration. Here the prince was brought in, and, on a recapitulation
                  of the advocate's testimony, substantiated every word of it.
               For Alfierdermo all hope seemed now lost. The prince, though incarcerated,
                  (incarcerated for political offences, as we have seen), had procured, through
                  well-paid agents, such information as suited his purposes—purposes fiendish and
                  diabolical, growing out of jealousy, wounded pride and vanity, caused by the
                  relationship which he surmised existed between the divine Fanny (whom he still
                  loved) and Fiello—Tzella being their go-be-tween.
               Could there be anything else conspiring against the prisoner on trial! It would
                  hardly seem possible; yet there was, in the person of the advocate himself,
                  notwithstanding his pledged honor to see justice done the innocent; for the
                  ravishing, eloquent loveliness, and the lovely eloquence of Aluine Lorma, when she
                  kneeled, before him to plead for her Fiello, had so captivated him that he
                  determined to possess her, even at the cost of his soul, and be rid of his rival—a
                  rival in love, and now in misfortune, in the affections of the people. His power
                  to do harms however, was of short duration.
               The witnesses having been removed, the king requested that the young Englishman
                  and the montuna Saffi should be brought in.
               Before kingly majesty and the majesty of the law, one would suppose that
                  Wellington would have trembled: but it was not so. Vested with the majesty of a
                  just cause, innocence and truth, with Saffi holding one hand, he stood unappalled,
                  and commenced his testimony:—
               "First of all I most solemnly affirm," said he, "that Signor Fiello Alfierdermo is
                  innocent of the crime alleged against him, and that if any one is guilty it is I.
                  To free myself from this implication, however, I must go over the story of my
                  life, and somewhat that of another, the thread of whose history from my early
                  recollection, and from what was revealed before me this morning in the palace of
                  the prisoner by one Madame Jones, remains now wholly unravelled in my hands.
               
               "A few days before I was born, a woman arrived in Falmouth with an infant (not her
                  own) who was to inherit a large estate left by its grandfather,—one of the noble
                  Lathmons of Scotland. Smithers, the deceased, (by marriage a relative of the
                  mother of this child), anxious to obtain the property, sought to get rid of the
                  heir. This he found it not difficult to do, since the mother herself was desirous
                  of concealing its birth; and as the lady for her accouchment had come from London to Glasgow, Smithers sent there a
                  victim and ready tool of his own, to take care, of her and secure the offspring.
                  The person he selected for the accomplishment of his object was my own mother,
                  who, I believe, continued faithful to her charge till its promised means of
                  support (intercepted by Smithers) ceased, and its parents were supposed to have
                  become indifferent to its fate. By this time, (having myself been turned a beggar
                  upon the world), though young in years I was old in crime. I abused the innocent
                  little girl—heaven forgive me!—and was the instigator of her being sent to a
                  foreign land. Later, as my father disowned me, and spurned me from his doors; as
                  he had been the cause of the infinitude of wretchedness my mother suffered, and
                  finally of her most cruel death,(which also nearly destroyed another who, till
                  that moment, supposed her child had been well cared for, but who now learned that
                  it was not to be found), I resolved to be revenged. Time, however, and years of
                  slavery (though brought about by the same black-hearted villain), and the meeting
                  with this fair girl who still clings to me, so remoulded my very nature, that to
                  kill this man—my most unnatural father—was as far from my heart as the stars are
                  from earth. But the wicked cannot always prosper, nor the innocent suffer
                  unjustly! Through my mother I knew that Smithers by fraud, and perhaps murder, had
                  possession of the Bolaro documents, and when I encountered this lirio of the valley, I felt that heaven had
                  commissioned me to secure them for her—their rightful owner—and heap coals of fire
                  on the head of the wrong-doer. I proceeded and was successful. Your majesty knows
                  the sad sequel. Let me now add, that the beautiful girl whom you are pleased to
                  honor, and whom my Saffi saved in the Val de Mazzara, is no other than the one
                  Smithers had put out of the way to rob it of its just rights—the one my mother had
                  charge of—the one I abused—the one by whose loss a fond parent was nearly
                  distracted, the child of Signor Alfierdermo, and a Crimora of the North."
               The chains of the prisoner clanked loudly; for as the last words of the witness
                  reached his ears, he raised his hands to press them upon his almost bursting
                  temples.
               Tzella, to catch a glimpse of her mother, had unnoticed crept into court, and as
                  she, too, heard the words of Wellington, she, with fond, frantic joy, threw
                  herself at the feet of her father, and clinging about his knees, as though fearful
                  some rude hand would tear her from him, sobbed out her love, her respect, and her
                  adoration.
               The king as KING now rose in the Hall of JUSTICE. "Thy beautiful child has saved
                  thee," said he to the prisoner. "Thou art pardoned!"
               "He is pardoned!" said the guard, and the word "pardon" echoed through the
                  palace.
               "Thy Amica," resumed his Majesty, "the wedded
                  one of thy heart, is here, too, to greet thee;" and as Alfierdermo dermo stood near the hall door, which now flew
                  open, Lorma, the loved, sprang in, and with a wild scream fell fainting on his
                  bosom.
               When Alfierdermo could speak, he raised the weeping Tzella, and pressing her
                  warmly by the side of her mother, said, "This is our own, our long-lost child of
                  love." But Aluine's heart could hold no more. She folded her beautiful offspring
                  in her arms, then sank upon the floor.
               "This is indeed a woman of great soul!" said the king, deeply
                  affected by the scene before him. "She is worthy the name CRIMORA! She has borne
                  Love's Cross nobly, and now receives her most sweet reward."
               Alfierdermo, freed from his chains, gave his attention to his heaven-born bride,
                  which soon restored her.
               Saffi and Wellington, Aluine, Alfierdermo, and Stella
                     Bianca between her fond parents, kneeled, the guard presented arms,
                  as the king descended from the Bench. "May God bless you!" said his majesty; and
                  he was about to withdraw, when one in the garb of the contadini stepped forward to say something about what he had done to
                  thwart the schemes of the prince and advocate. It was Phosphoro: but he could give
                  no utterance to the feelings that now crowded his breast; so dashing a tear upon
                  the pavement, he turned away, and was lost amid the crowd.
            
         
      
   
