
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Dora, the Heroine of the Cumberland, or, The American Amazon .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6294
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE HEROINE OF THE CUMBERLAND: 
               THE WESTERN AMAZON 
             
            
                
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               BARCLAY & CO.  
                     No. 602 ARCH STREET. 
                  
               
             
          
          
             
            
                
                  The rebel provost-marshal received her with an ominous frown, exclaiming, "Pray, prisoner, what have you to say, why you should not be dealt with as a detected spy, which any one in their senses may see that you are?"-Page 102. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               DORA, THE HEROINE OF THE CUMBERLAND; 
               OR, THE AMERICAN AMAZON, 
               A STARTLING BUT AUTHENTIC NARRATIVE OF INNUMERABLE AND DANGEROUS FEATS PERFORMED BY THIS DARING HEROINE, THE IDOL OF THE LOYAL ARMIES. 
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               PUBLISHED BY BARCLAY & CO.  
                     No. 602 ARCH STREET. 
                  
               
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1864, by BARCLAY & CO., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
          
       
      
         
            Dora, the heroine of the Cumberland, or, The American Amazon 
             
            DORA OF THE CUMBERLAND, OR THE AMERICAN AMAZON. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               A BORDER WAR LANDSCAPE-THE FAIR CAPTIVE AT HER SONGS-THE SPELL OF SWEET SOUNDS. 
               READER, whether yon know it or not, this is a Great Age. It is an age of physical and intellectual activity and vigor, to which from the earliest dawn of creation it will be hard to find a parallel. Whatever may be those grand ultimate developments to which the present gigantic combinations are being directed, and the issues of which thoughtful and far-sighted minds even now begin to grasp with a hold that can scarcely prove fallacious in the end, it is well that the intelligent and ever-industrious masses should be made acquainted, as the ever-shifting panorama of the war continues, with the most startling and dramatic incidents winch, in new and inexhaustible variety, are ever presenting themselves in perilous and romantic combinations. 
               Happily for our country-now the absorbing object of interest to the whole civilized world-there has sprung up, simultaneously with the events themselves, a brilliant phalanx of graphic and faithful chroniclers of them. The elegant Horace, himself the brightest star in that brilliant corruscation of literature which the world for many centuries accepted, under the name of the Augustan age, as the "no plus ultra" of literary celebrity-Horace, we say, in one of his brilliant odes, laments the hard fate of countless generations of heroes, both before the Trojan war and after it, whose high deeds of courage had sunk into hopeless, oblivion, simply for want of some sacred bard or historian to keep their name and fame alive.
                     The classical reader will no doubt at once recognize the stanza, which we quote, not from pedantry, but just to give him a breath, of the sweet air of his school-days,- 
                            
                              Vexere fortes aute Agamemnona 
                              Multi, sed omnes illachrymabiles 
                              Urgentur, ignotique longa 
                              Noote, carent quia Vate Sacro. 
                           
                        
                     
                  
                
               Such an inglorious fate, happily, can never be the portion of those countless legions of actors on whose movements the present generation gazes with entranced eyes. And it is with a high sense of the responsibilities of the vocation, truly designated by the Roman poet as "sacred," that we now commence our labor of love, in presenting to the millions of our country, one more of those magic and brilliant careers, the reality of which is well known to those behind the working scenes of the great war-drama, but which, though well ascertained to be faithful life-portraitures, might otherwise appear to uninitiated eyes, the mere creation of some wild and over-wrought enthusiast. 
               Our scene opens, for the present entertainment, on a rebel encampment at a village in the woods of Tennessee, not many miles from Knoxville. Situate in that most ill-starred locality, familiarly called the Border States, the once flourishing community had been reduced to well nigh the extremest desolation by the alternate ebb and swell of the great spring and neap tides of war, just as loyal legions or rebel hordes obtained a transient predominance. Where once fair orchards had waved, laden, in due season with the luscious burden of golden-tinted autumn, now lay the blackened embers of many a warlike bivouac, where the flames that cooked the hasty suppers of wearied campaigners, ascended up and scorched to death the graceful boughs which at first overhung them, and which had formed a double attraction in selecting the improvised encampment, as they formed not only an available shade by day, but a shelter from rain or from the chill night winds. 
               Alas for the unhappy farmer of the Border States in war! Where are all those countless fence-rails, the fruit of thousands of laborious blows from the well-ground axe, ringing against the giants of the forest? Where those rough but commodious log-buildings so lately his gain and pride? Where horses and cattle and pigs and poultry, with all the vast and varied stores of food which his constant toil raised for them? 
               Look to the, dreary and solitary frame-house that still remains, the half-ruined citadel of this once well-kept rural fortress-and echo answers where? 
                
               In "piping times of peace"-the memory of which must still linger, forming a soft and mellow background for the picture of our present horizon-in "piping times of peace," that frame-house was the cheerful abode of a wife and mother, bright, smart lads and smiling, happy girls, who combined to enliven the father's heart as he returned daily to his abundant home: but what is the scene now? 
               No female or childlike forms flit across that blackened homestead! They have fled from its desolated sanctuary-rude hands, caring for naught but the urgent needs of the moment, have one by one pulled down and burnt up the farm-buildings for the various animals, and made wasteful prize and banquets of the creatures themselves, and the only reason that the frame-house itself is spared, is that both rebels and Federals know its value as a temporary barrack, and its military strength being nothing, there was no earthly inducement to burn it when the large old logs from the stables and out-buildings had been, one after the other, consumed. At the present time, a company of rebels are in occupation of the building, and before one door in the house, and one window out of it, a patrol has mounted guard, being relieved from time to time as his watch expires. 
               Surely some formidable enemy must lodge within, to call forth this double vigilance. Peep into the open window! See who is there! Happily, in multiplying its impromptu prisons, war does not, like old time-worn dynasties, shut out light and air from its captives. 
               Pardon this thought, good reader. It is but momentary. Yet in drawing the photograph scenes of our bleeding country, we must throw in the light, as well as the shade. Peep into that open window! Ah! whom have we there? No stalworth and strongly knit warrior, whose iron limbs and marble brow might attest how formidable he was when free, and show the need that existed for such strict and merciless guard over him. 
               Instead of this, it is a woman! Ah, terrible change, that in America, so long the boast of its citizens for the deference paid to the soft sex, sentinels with loaded rifles should keep guard, as over a murderess or a bandit! 
               But perhaps she is some dreadful virago on whose once calm beauty crime has set its fearful brand! Examine, reader, and judge for yourself. She seems some twenty-six or seven years old; her face still bears the lines of brilliant southern beauty; her somewhat olive complexion shows traces of pretty constant exposure to the sun and wind, and her brow begins to be marked with those mysterious furrows, which show so little, but yet speak so much-ah! of what do they tell? Of earnest schemes cherished-of daring adventures undergone-of fearful perils encountered-of calm bravery in abiding their result-of patient wonder that asks of her inmost soul-what next? 
               Such would be the judgment of no very deeply versed physiognomist, ushered into the presence of that female captive, over whom, at her door and window, the rebel sentries are now watching with loaded rifles, ready to discharge should she attempt to escape. But truth to say, of such notion the fair prisoner of war seems wholly innocent. Her hand is supporting her forehead, and she is evidently in deep thought. Soon, however, her head is thrown back, her eyes rouse themselves into plaintive yet wild pathos, and leaning back on her chair, and with mellifluous and full-toned expression she is singing the well-known prison chant of Mary, Queen of Scots- 
                      
                        Oh, Domine Deus, speravi in te 
                        Oh care mi Jesu nuno liberes me! 
                        Gemendo, tremendo et genuflectendo 
                        In dura caten, in miser pn, 
                        Adoro, imploro, ut liberes me." 
                     
                  
                  
                     This song, both, in the original Monastic Latin, and its English version, is common in musical selections. Literally translated it runs thus-"Oh, Lord God, in thee have I trusted! Oh, my dear Jesus, do thou now set me free! In my groaning, trembling, and with bended knees-in my hard fetters, and wretched punishment, I adore and beseech thee to set me free."
                  
                
               The song, though melancholy and pathetic in itself, and rendered much more so by the soul-flowing enthusiasm with which the fair songstress entered into it, seemed nevertheless to carry with it, as the notes came forth, a dreamy yet real comfort. Time after time, varying the air with slight but harmonious modulations, she continued repeating the words, till at length their echoes died away on the breeze, "in linked sweetness long drawn out." 
               "Wa-al, now," said Corporal Amos Yancey, as he 'lolled against the front door-post, at which, though not above two yards from the door of the prison sitting-room of the singer, he had the advantage of at once commanding the door, and chatting with his comrade outside, "I'll be danged if she don't blate out raal fine!-this darned sly Yankee spy! Guess there's many one o' our tough old boys pays his quarter and half dollar to hear these furrin bally singers and canty-treeches,
                     The corporal being no Italian scholar gives the phonetic orthography of cantatrice.
                   as folks call 'em, as don't get half so much for their money as we boys do, when that gal begins piping up! By the 'tarnal, I tell'ee, Nick Doeskin, many a long day hence (if I aint shot off first) that skirling of hers 'll come into my ears as I'm keeping guard at some night picket-duty, or trailing along ankle deep through these blasted dirt roads, ready to drop at every step, and though it's kinder melancholy like, rabbit me if 'tain't raal comfortin' too, Nick Doeskin." 
               "She's a darned cute old possum, Amos Yancey, and it's my 'pinion that she's like the crocodile, as folks say means most mischief when crying, and guess this here Maria Dora, as they calls her, is just a trying to blind us with some o' this furrin lingo, and throw the dust in our eyes, just before she tries to escape." 
               Doeskin, be it known, while delivering himself of this profound oracular sentence, had placed himself at the corner of his beat close to the door, which, as it was not three yards from the window, still made him master of that point of exit, and enabled him to talk with his comrade who watched the door, so as the captive herself should be none the wiser. 
               "Wa'al, comrade, I will own to this," said the corporal, in reply to his brother sentry, "I don't care to confess, I could keep guard here on" just a cracker or two a day, if that gal 'ud keep singing all the time. Can't say why, but it's a darned sight better than whisky." 
               "May be, for them as likes it, but old hoss, give me the grog, and you may keep the singing; hows'ever, friend Amos, keep a bright look out, for this gal's as slippery as a water-snake, by all account, and whether it's on land or water, by the which I means, in comparison like, whether she's a prisoner or free, them's raal cute old coons as she can't manage to give the slip to, but I don't mean she shall to me." 
               "Wa'al, if she does slip through, and we ain't on guard, I sha'nt so much care! Odds man, she's too sweet toned a linnet, spy or no spy, to keep all her days caged up!" 
               As the discussion proceeded, the tones of the men had become somewhat less subdued, and the fair captive within caught a glimpse at the tenor of the last sentences, for be it remembered frame-houses with their boards and just a thin coat of plaster are not the best calculated buildings to shut out the impression of sound. 
               And now having placed the reader in possession of the assumed character and position of the melancholy prisoner in that sunlit sitting-room, she will herself proceed to favor him with a more accurate glimpse of her prospects, as indicated by the interjectional sentences that fell at intervals from her half-closed lips. 
               "Ah! that poor Mary, Queen of Scots, whose words I've been singing, but why they came to me just now I really can't tell. Let me think, these things always have a reason, though it's often so fine drawn that we don't see it. Ah me! those guards are whispering together outside. 
               "Oh," she continued after a pause, "I see now all about it. What a thing life is! No new thing under the sun, Solomon said. (Faith, though, I think if he only saw this war, he'd say there are lots of new things.) But, I know now what brought the poor captive Queen into my mind: She was a woman, and a captive, and so am I.-She was formed for the sympathies of her sex, and so am I.-She had lost two husbands, one under circumstances of great violence. Now it's true I've not lost two husbands, but I've lost two lovers, one a rebel and one loyal, and both by violent death; and ah me, it's a strange world, I can't exactly say what I think, or wish or hope for, but at all events I don't like being shut up here;" and then once again, involuntarily, she struck up the refrain, "Adoro, imploro, ut liberes me." 
               "Dear me," she said, as a pause came after her voice had died away in a tremulous shake of ravishing plaintive tenderness, "folks would think me a nun, torn away from my convent, and dragged into this busy maze or conflict, if they only judged by just listening to a ditty like this! I'm half ashamed of it myself, for there's certainly marvellous little of the nun element in me, though once I remember half thinking I would take to it! 
               "Dear me! what an age ago that is! Just fancy, suppose I'd been cooped up saying rosaries and chanting litanies with those dear gloomy looking old pumps in St. Mary's Convent at Baltimore. Wonder whether any thing could have made a nun of me! Guess I should have broke prison, and then perhaps been set down for a very horrid and profane kind of thing. And, yet it would be nothing; more than because I like adventure. 
                      
                        "No! the wild bliss of nature needs alloy, 
                        And fear and sorrow fan the fire of joy.'" 
                     
                  
                
               These lines she sung, as though the musical echoes of her voice shed a charm over the gloom of her captivity, and her thoughts, accompanying the words and wringing their flight far and far away beyond them, once more turned themselves to working out that ever-recurring, ever-interesting problem-what next? 
               "Wonder what those fellows are saying outside!" and as she spoke she glided to the corner of the sitting-room, and listened with her ear to the wall. The keen exercise to which, in the exciting but hazard ous calling to which she had devoted herself, her senses had long been trained, enabled her intuitively to catch the general scope of the sentries' remarks, on which she pursued the process indicated by the celebrated Captain Cuttle, whose precept was, "Turn down the leaf, and when found, make a note of-" 
               "Oh, you like music do you? you rough old coons outside! Well now, that's jam, as they say up in New England. Oh yes! it's the old story in a new dress: one of ye thinks I mean to break prison by singing. Thank you for the hint, old hoss, to use your own phrase: it's not a bad one by any means. Ah dear, I've sung it before now to my dear old father who's dead and gone, and now I'll sing it to you, my rough soldier jailers, i.e., if I can remember the words. Oh yes! here they are: 
                      
                        "'He sung, and tell consented 
                        To hear the poet's prayer, 
                        Stern Proserpine relented, 
                        And gave him back the fair. 
                        Thus song could prevail 
                        O'er death and o'er hell, 
                        A conquest how hard and how glorious! 
                        Though fate had fast bound her 
                        With Styx nine times round her, 
                        Yet music and love were victorious.' 
                     
                   And I wonder which was the hardest job, for Orpheus to get Eurydice out of the realms of King Pluto, or for me to get loose from these rough and grimy myrmidons of Jeff Davis, who may be aptly enough since he lives "down South" be called king of the lower regions. Well, that ain't much consequence, whether old Pluto and Jeff Davis may run in a curricle or not, but what is of consequence, is for me to get out SOME way." 
               Here the door opened, and one sentry opened the door, the other saying, "Here's some nice devilled turkey for ye, Missus Dora. We'll not starve ye anyhow, though I aint sure as the ginerals won't order ye hung when the court sits on ye, for by the 'tarnal, ye're as darned sly a customer as belongs to any of Old Abe's swarm o' locusts-d-n him. Golly, Miss Dora! you'd best go to Richmond and hire out for a singer; them lazy stay-at-home patriots, as never cares to smell powder; 'ud give any money to hear them songs o' yourn." 
               "Thanks for the compliment, my friend, and I suppose as you've brought me the plate of turkey, and mean it civil, I mustn't do less than eat it, before it gets cold. It's bad enough being a prisoner: I hope they'll exchange me soon." 
               The rough soldier now withdrew, as it was no part of his wish to get too familiar with his prisoner, whose influence he had the penetration to perceive might perhaps wean him from the stern enforcements of his position. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               A REBEL MESS-BOOM-BETTING AND ITS CONSEQUENCES-MARS AND VENUS PLAYING AT CHESS-VENUS WINS. 
               THE fame of the singing powers of their fair captive spread upwards from the sentry in charge to the officers above him. In fact, they could not help hearing something themselves, though, for their own convenience, they had occupied the roomy and commodious kitchen on the other side of the house, where the veteran campaigners of the party had at the same time the advantage of seeing that their meals were cooked satisfactorily. 
               "Gad, Ellis!" said Captain Slingsby to his mess-mate, the jovial-looking Major Randolph, "it won't do for you, with your weakness as to music and women, to venture much within the sphere of this Yankee siren; she'd lure you to destruction by her songs, like they say the old sirens did in Homer's time." 
               "You be hanged, captain! now, I tell you what: I'm going to have myself detailed for guard over that prisoner, and may be, shall get up a duet with her, i.e., if she really deserves all the praise our rough friend Amos bestows on her." 
               "Don't go and make a fool of yourself, Randolph!" once more added the captain, in a tone much more earnest than jocular. "I've heard so many rumors of the confounded tact this woman shows when she's got herself in a tight fix, that I'll take almost any odds that she's too much for a fellow, and will end by making him, as they say, cry after shed milk-or as another proverb has it, leave him to console himself with shutting the door when the steed is stolen." 
               "I'll bet I'm no such greenhorn as that! so get out your book, Captain Slingsby, and write it down, say a hundred dollars! Hang it! times have been that I'd have made a bet for a thousand, but this war makes us all poor I" The captain got out his book. "You mean," said Randolph, "that I lose the bet if this darned sly Yankee spy makes her escape while in my custody?" 
               "Yes, that's it, major! If you keep the prisoner safe, I lose my hundred, but hang it, the bet's awfully against me; however I'll stand to it, if you keep watch for a week, and she doesn't slip off in the time." 
               Done old fellow I come now, if that ain't such a certain windfall that I'll stand a pint of whisky off hand, for all that rascal sutler cheats us so in it!" 
               So the pint of whisky was had in, and diluted with ice and lemon, the major ruminating during the time he sipped it how he could best combine the amusement of the siren's singing, and at the same time insure winning his bet, and saving his military credit. This made him during the time they sat together rather dull company for his messmates, and the colonel who had hitherto remained silent remarked, 
               "Why, what on earth's come to you, major? you're not A used to sit glum in this way, when the grog is all handy!" 
               "I'm meditating on my campaigning operations," answered the major. 
               "In what field, pray? the Campus Martius, or the isle of Paphos?" asked the captain. 
               "Faith, that's just what I'm uncertain about," said the major "but you all know that Mars and Venus always kept company, whenever they had the chance." 
               "Yes, yes, major! we all know the English of that legend, and so I guess do all the womenkind, at least the good natured ones, in every town our fellows enter, whether South States, Middle, or Northern, guess it's pretty much the same in all." 
               "But you can't have any love-making with this prisoner, major!" said the captain. 
               "Why, that depends," he answered. "Of course not, if she mopes or sulks; but if she's chatty and sings duets, why I guess it's as good a way of amusement as euchre or all-fours!" 
               "Well," said the captain rather gravely, "every one to his taste, only mind, major, that you don't get booked for a court-martial!" 
               "Oh, never fear!" gayly answered the major "I know a soldier's duty too well." 
               "So we all do, major," said the colonel, "only the plague of it is, sometimes we forget it, and our useless regrets are-the crying after spilled milk!" 
               The conversation dropped, and for the present we will leave the mess-table, as did also Major Randolph, to make the round of the outlying pickets, a mechanical duty not requiring, at the present juncture, any particular mental attention, but leaving his thoughts at liberty to scheme out any plan on which his fancy might fasten itself. 
               We return to the captive's chamber, where, having eaten her dinner, the lady had thrown herself dreamily on the bed in one corner of the room, and without any inclination to sleep, yet adopted that posture as on the whole most favorable to earnest and continuous meditation. 
                
               The hint which her rough but kind jailor had thrown out, was not in itself the source of any great alarm. It was beyond all possibility of denial that she was a Union spy, within the lines of the rebel army. As such, even though she was a woman, martial law would doom her to the gallows. But even the rebels themselves, though stained with many deeds of unmanly and barbarous violence, could scarcely, she believed, load their cause with the new stigma of shedding for political causes the blood of a defenceless woman. 
               Her main trouble lay on another ground altogether. Though, while passing through each particular scene of highly wrought and imminent peril, her main anxiety at all times was to get safely through to the end, yet such was the marvellously alluring charm of her wild and enterprising life, that no sooner was she well out of one scrape, than she was eager to run the chances of another; her memory revelling all through the interim in the delight of conscious triumph; her imagination picturing forth new and brilliant combinations, that in their turn should become new memories, and form additions to that grand mental accumulation which had become to her unselfish soul such & treasure of incalculable value. 
               And so the captive lady lay on her rude prison-bed, and thought-yes, reader, she thought-superficial minds would have jeered her for laziness, but all minds of real strength are aware of the fact, that energetic actors have always been profound thinkers. And as our fair heroine had done quite enough in the way of action (when the time and place called for it) to stand well beyond the reach of any flippant charge for laziness, she had thrown herself down to collect her thoughts all the more earnestly, on the great problem at present before her, viz., to effect her escape. 
               For to escape she had made up her mind. Secreted in a part of her dress that had hitherto eluded the strict search to which her person had been subjected, important despatches were still concealed, which she had received from General Grant's own hands, and had promised to deliver at the earliest day possible, to the officer in the Federal lines in Tennessee for whom they were directed. 
               Moreover she had the good sense to know that the value of these important papers depended on their being given in at an early day; and this, coupled to the yearnings for freedom of her own impulsive and ardent spirit, made her determine as she lay on that humble couch, that spite of rebels and sentries and rifles and all, free as the lark she once again would be, and that too at the Earliest moment possible; yet how to bring about this result was rather a poser. 
               She had been in situations of the kind before-sometimes in cities, sometimes in the lonely wilderness-but here, though no visible sign
                   
                   
                     DORA, AS A WAGON-BOY, PUTS THE JEW SMUGGLERS TO FLIGHT.-Page 96. 
                  
                   of strong incarceration beset her, she felt that, in reality, she had more need of instantaneous tact and energy than in any crisis that had yet occurred-since she adopted this adventurous life. And, as her thoughts, with rapid course, carried her back to the well-remembered points when her very life tad been trembling in the balance-and yet she had come out from the danger unscathed-it seemed to her that the secret of her escape had been simply to hold herself instantly on the watch for some slip on the part of her adversaries by which she might profit to obtain the desired end. 
               Such, then, was the general tenor of her thoughts-not without canvassing the possibility of making a hole in the wall, on the side farthest from the sentries, a task which, in itself, was by no means difficult had she only a chisel or such like tool that could be applied, first, to get rid of the plaster, and then to loosen a board or two where her body could pass. But, while her meditations were still incomplete, there came a knock at the door, and, as she did not immediately answer it-not choosing to be caught lying down, and, springing up instantly and adjusting her dress-presently the door opened, and, in his most polite tones, the voice of Major Randolph said, "If you will permit me, madam, as I am detailed to be guard over you through the next watch, I had much rather sit inside, and have the pleasure of your company, than stand, moping and dull, musket in hand, outside." 
               "Oh, very well, sir," answered the lady; "but coming without leave into a lady's private apartment is not considered gentlemanly. But I can't defend myself." 
               "Pray excuse me, madam. I fancied you did not hear me knock; and, being broad day, I had no idea you would be lying down. But I am an officer and a gentleman--Major Ellis Randolph, of the 28th Virginia, at your service-and I know what is due to ladies." 
               "Oh, pray sit down, Major Randolph, since you are come either to stand jailor over me or to shoot me-a poor defenceless woman. Pray sit down, as you've come in to sit here whether I like it or not. Only I'm afraid you'll find me very poor company, for, in truth, I'm like an untamed linnet, and not broke in, as yet, to sing in my cage." 
               "Pardon me, lady, that is just the very key-note to my apparently somewhat too free intrusion. But our sentries have reported your singing as so marvellously beautiful, that I have ventured to offer you my company, in the hope that you may favor me in a similar manner." 
               "Ah, major," said the lady, sighing, "whether you may believe me or not, the fact it so, that those sudden impulses which are the true soul of music will not come at command-they are involuntary, and can only be repeated under conditions of rare or accidental occurrence." 
               "Nevertheless, lady, I am told there were at least three such occasions sions during the two or three hours previous to dinner time; and I had hoped that an evening of this fine and genial month of May might prove almost a more propitious time for the rhapsodies of sweet sounds than was the garish heat of the noon-day sun." 
               "Oh, I suppose I know what you allude to, major. I had a fit of brown study this morning, and I was thinking, I remember, of a poor captive lady in old times. She was, it's true, a queen, and I'm only a. woman; but still, when I came to think of it, my fate and, poor Queen Mary's have many things in common; and so, I believe, without almost knowing it, I did sing one of the poor queen's prison-songs." 
               "They did not know what it was," said the major; "but Sergeant Yancey said he never heard such singing; and, in truth, fair lady, I'm just come to ask you to sing it again." 
               An involuntary smile spread itself over the fair features of the captive. In an instant, with the quickness of a ray of light, the thought struck her that now her time was coming, if only she could play her game skilfully. 
               But, with true female tact, she drew another sigh, and said, "Major, don't think I'm a New. England Puritan, (for I was born in the sunny South;) don't call it cant if I answer your request out of the Psalms, where it says: 
               "'They that led us away captive required of us, then, a song, and melody in our heaviness. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land?' No, major; I must say as did the Hebrew maidens by the waters of Babylon-'As for our harps, we hanged them up upon the trees that are therein.' Major, I can't sing to you. My harp hangs on the willows." 
               The major was taken at surprise. This mode of meeting his charge was wholly out of his calculations. But he was not one to give way just at the first discharge from the adversary, so he answered, "You must allow me to remind you, lady, that your elegant parallel tumbles through in two essential particulars, for, in the first place, you well know that I had no personal share in the honor of taking you captive, and it may even be-who knows?-that, under the influence of my respectful homage, your 'heaviness' would pass away, and your harp, no longer on the willows, would be, in your hands, as David was to Saul, the direct means of chasing away the evil spirits which we moderns familiarly term blue devils." 
               "Fairly parried, major, I admit; and, as you seem inclined to be civil, I don't mind saying that a bit of a chat with a, lively officer is some little relief while in prison; but, as to singing, I'm a woman, as you see, and rather a wayward one, and I was so ashamed of myself this morning for having been drawn into it in this my captivity, that I made a vow not to sing again till I should be set free and regularly, exchanged." 
               "Well, now, that's exceedingly provoking, Miss Dora, I declare I'm fairly sold-I am, 'pon honor." 
               "Fairly sold, sir, are you? and how may that be, I wonder?" 
               "Well, madam, you know, I dare say, that we fellows at the mess, now and then, lay a little bet." 
               "So I've heard, sir. A practice, too, let me remark, more honored in the breach than the observance. And so you sat at your grog, betting about me I Oh, fie!" 
               "Well, ma'am, I claim that I deserve your support and sympathy. Now listen t There's Captain Slingsby, a hard, dry old coon, with no more soul than a stone, and our colonel, a dry and withered piece of goods, or, as I may say, a kind of smoke-dried codfish. Well, they both said, when the sergeant told us of your singing, that it didn't matter a straw, and I said it did matter, for I'd get you to sing the same to me, and so they said they were sure I couldn't, and I said I knew I could-and so, ma'am, we laid a hundred dollars on it, and, if you don't sing to me, I'm sold." 
               "Well, sir, I'm sorry, I'm sure. But you know the proverb-A fool and his money are soon parted. I can't break my vow to save your hundred dollars." 
               The major had improvised this version of the bet as being, in his opinion, a certain method of at least drawing his companion to a change, of purpose. But the lady saw the ball was in the way of coming to her feet, and, therefore, left the major still in the pangs of his somewhat over-acted melancholy, as he sat on, silently musing by what new dodge he might succeed in gaining the point he aimed at. 
               "Lady," he said, "your sex have their own whims and also their own privileges. Perhaps, if you laid yourself out in some good-natured trifle of this sort, to relieve the monotony and dullness of camp quarters, I might have it in my power to mitigate somewhat the strictness of your present confinement." 
               "Don't let yourself be drawn, major, by any whim arising out of this bet, into a breach of military duty. I have told you that I can only sing when at liberty, and I see no reason to think that you have either the will or the power to give it me." 
               "No, madam, I have certainly neither the one nor the other. But still, if you took a walk with me into the woods, and I had a revolver in my breast-pocket, ready to use, without remorse, if you tried to run away, perhaps you would then consider yourself a prisoner on parole, and might hold yourself so far at liberty as to save me the mortification alluded to." 
               "I can't say, I'm sure, major. I don't think it is at all a case worth While either for you to propose or me to accept conditions as to so unimportant a matter. If I am to be a prisoner of war, and not even allowed the usual liberty, I may as well stay in this room as not. It is at least light and clean." 
               "As you please, lady. However, I have duties elsewhere for a short time. If, at my return, you have changed your mind, and will promise me some songs, under the free, open sky, sometime about sundown, subject to the conditions I hinted at, I will take on me the responsibility of conducting you past our pickets, but shall, of courser insist on your accompanying me back when I think it time to do so." 
               So saying, he bowed, and left the room. 
               "What a born fool the man is!" said the lady, as his feet ceased to sound in the passage, "to run the risk of being cashiered, or of doing murder, for the sake of a trumpery song, or a still meaner bet. Well, what is to be done? I must think." And once again she sat and mused, this time, if possible, more eagerly, with deeper absorption than ever, of all her reasoning and calculating faculties. 
               On the whole, after turning it over fully in her mind, she thought it was the very opportunity she had been hoping for. The rebel squad who had taken her captive about ten days previously were not, as she believed, more than about ten or twelve miles distant from the nearest division of the Union forces; and if only, by some sudden expedient, she could break loose from her single guard, there would be the whole night before her in which to gain a safe refuge under the banner of the Stars and Stripes. 
               The resolution once taken, she made those little preparations for her intended movement that her narrow facilities afforded; and when, about sunset, the major again knocked at the door, she was duly dressed in style to walk out with him; and, as he seemed glad to observe the fact, she said, plaintively, "I know it's no good, major; but even the semblance of liberty is sweet." 
               Having, in truth, made, up her mind to the precise spot where she would try her hand at a feminine coup-d'-ett, she hoped to disarm all suspicion on the part of her conductor by this meek appearance of hopeless and resigned apathy. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               THE DESPISED WARNING-THE CONCERT BY STARLIGHT-A SUDDEN COLD BATH. 
               THIS singularly assorted couple accordingly now sallied forth-a modern tableau vivant of Mars and Venus-the outer sentinel looking surprised, but, at the same time, saluting his superior officer, the major. 
               They had not proceeded above a hundred yards before they met the captain, who, observing that other soldiers were thick all around, said, "Major, just one word!" 
               The two officers then retired out of the lady's hearing, when the captain, with looks of mingled surprise and contempt, said, "Major, I know you're my superior officer, and of course I only speak as a friend, but it strikes me you are making a confounded fool of yourself. For God's sake, Ellis, take the woman back to her cell, and be a man!" 
               "I never heard that it was unmanly for an officer to take an evening stroll, with a girl, especially a pretty one, and that sings like, an angel. I know what I'm doing, and so, does she, for she's seen my revolver, and I told her I should use it, if need be." 
               "Well, major, I hope it's all right; but I do think you're a precious big fool to run all this risk! However, good-night." 
               Thus speaking, the captain turned on his heel, and the major, with a polite bow, gave his arm to the fair prisoner, and conducted her toward the outer pickets, having reached which, the sentry predated his piece, saying, "The password, major, if you please." 
               "Nonsense, man!" said the officer. "But stay, it's all right-'Immortal Calhoun!'" 
               "Pass on, major!" said the sentry, giving the military salute; and Dora and her escort were now in the open country. 
               The sun had disappeared while they were still within camp, and, by this time, the golden flood of fleecy vapor which had filled all the Western skies was sobering down, with tints of varied richness, into a grand canopy where the gold was melting, first into dark crimson, then into cerulean purple, which, in turn, ran off into pale violet, not untinged with rose; but upon all this blend of heavenly beauty the sober gray of night was rapidly stealing-and the lady noted ail in silence, appearing to enjoy the cool evening air, but drawing her companion panion, by steady advances, quite a distance from the lines round the, camp. 
               "You seem fond of exercise, lady," said the major. "Now, for my part, these hot days, the regular drill tires a fellow pretty much, and he's glad to keep still after it." 
               "Please remember, major, this walk is entirely at your solicitation but, if I am to humor you. with a little singing, you've got to let me go on my own way till, as the Quakers say, 'the spirit moves me.'" 
               "Hope it won't be very long, then, for, by the powers, my feet are getting quite to feel the distance. This spot we are at is full of birds by day-why not fit for a song that shall shame the nightingale into silence?" 
               "A little further, major, please. But I won't tax your corns very much more," and the two moved on silently. 
               And now they reached the banks of a creek, which ran below in a deep channel, and, at this point, was eight or ten feet below the road level, a deep pond having formed by a bend in the stream, and the perpendicular bank was unprotected by any fence from the road where they were walking. 
               "Oh, what a lovely spot!" said Dora, with sudden enthusiasm. "Come, major, this won't be mended-the music of running waters always sets me somewhat in tune for music, to keep them company." 
               "Very glad to hear it, lady, for, the truth is, I'm getting deucedly tired." 
               "Then sit down, major. See! here's one of nature's sofas, ready-made to our hand." 
               So saying, she pointed to a fallen log on the very edge of the bank, which presented, as she observed, a seat sufficiently comfortable. 
               "Guess it will answer the purpose, miss," answered the major; "but it's rayther too close to the edge of that steep bank!" 
               "That's my concert-stand, and no other," said Dora, laughing; "and I sing there or nowhere!" 
               "Pray begin, then, lady. I hope I'm to be repaid for all my pains at last," saying which, the major seated himself, taking care to reserve a footing. 
               But this was no part of Dora's plan, so she fidgeted about, adjusting and re-adjusting her dress, till she had wriggled the major two or three feet further along the log, where she had noticed that he would have no foot-hold at all, but just have his legs dangling over the deep pond below. 
               Not giving him time to remark on this slight inconvenience, she instantly pitched her voice into its best tones, and ran off, at fullest compass, with the rich melody of Queen Mary's prison-hymn, that had led to the present conjuncture. 
               Warming as all good singers do, under the influence of her own music, she threw her whole soul into the words, and the major listened like one entranced. She was in no particular hurry-an hour, more or less, at that early part of the night, was no object-besides, having her own plan fully matured, she thought It only fair to give the major some slight payment in advance, to compensate for the approaching catastrophe. 
               Having got her voice into first-rate order, and knowing she could keep on for & good hour, if she chose, and wishing, moreover, to throw the major completely off his guard by the long continuance of the musical treat to him, she ransacked her mental music-wagon for all the best songs contained in it, and gave him Byron's beautiful melody of "The Wild Gazelle on Judah's Hills," set to that spirited but yet melancholy music by Nathan-the animated and bounding ballad of "Young Lochinvar"-"Lady Heron's Song," by Sir Walter Scott-as she finished which the major playfully said: 
               "I hope, Miss Dora, this song is not meant for a hint that you mean to run away from me!" 
               "Oh, my! dear major, how can you ask? Do you think I've forgotten that hideous revolver? Now, if you'd only jerk it into the water, who knows what I might do?" 
               "Go on singing, dear lady. Confound the revolver, and the war, and all of it! But you know a soldier's duty. Give us a melancholy song now, can you?" 
               "Oh, as many as you please. None suit my mood so well." So she struck off with Moore's song "Oft in the Stilly Night," and then went on with "The Convent Bell," the beautiful cadences of which admirably suited the place and the hour. 
               The major was in rhapsodies, and Dora, though not for a moment losing sight of her purpose, was not above the womanly weakness of prolonging the time in which she received such zealous homage. At length, having sung him a dozen songs, the last of which, by a freak of playful malice, she determined should be "The Star-Spangled Banner," the major said, "Pray don't wind up with that. Give us 'Dixie,' or, at least, some song that won't raise discussion." 
               "Have you ever heard Burns' 'Scots, Wha Hae wi' Wallace Bled?' Well, never mind, you shall hear it once more." So she started off with the grand and startling emphasis that accompanies that spirited lyric. Giving it in her best style, she ran through one stanza, and then, when it came to the line, "Welcome to your gory bed, or to victory," she gave her unsuspecting neighbor a tremendous jerk from behind his shoulder, shouting out, "Welcome to thy 'watery' bed"-and the unlucky major floundered plump down into the pond below, making an awful splash. 
               "Confound the d--d sly hussy!" said the major, puffing away, as he rose from the plunge. "So she's off, by the 'tarnal! blast her!" 
               However, the bank was too steep to climb up in a minute-moreover, it was a clayey bottom, and his feet slipped about-but, as he groped and tried to get out, he heard the words which had arrested his attention in "Lochinvar" sounding in malicious triumph a hundred yards away: 
                      
                        "She has won! We are gone! over brake, bush, and scaur! 
                        They'll have fleet steeds that follow! quoth young Lochinvar." 
                     
                  
                
               With much difficulty, owing to the nature of the soil and the steepness of the bank, the major was at length once more on terra firma, and shaking himself like a great Newfoundland dog-only with far less effective results-he listened in vain for a continuance of the triumphant war-song with which Dora, unable, from sheer exhilaration, to repress, had started on her march of recovered freedom. 
               He marched as fast as his heavy clothes would allow, in the direction the sound had come from; but soon satisfied himself of the hopelessness of the task, and in the very worst possible humor, turned his steps towards the camp to report himself to the colonel as under arrest. 
               His evident chagrin was so abundantly manifest that the colonel had no heart to add to the bitterness of his sorrow, but he said, "You must remain under arrest, major. Of course, we all know there was no criminal collusion with the enemy; but what old Bragg may think, I can't answer for. On the facts as they appear, I don't think he'll believe you innocent-better resign at once, to save being cashiered, and I'll do all I can for you." 
               The major hung his head, and sat in silence for a time. 
               "You are right, colonel. I will resign, and go far away, to hide my shame from the world." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               SENTRIES ON PICKET DUTY-CAMP-LIFE-LOVE-MAKING IN SOBER EARNEST. 
               WHILE the major was shulking back, heavy at heart and heavy with water, Dora, with the gladsome buoyancy of recovered freedom, was bounding under the trees of the primeval forest, on her path to the Union camp. Oh, how changed the whole scope of her soul from the melancholy that had filled it only some seven or eight hours before I How entirely did she realize the truth she had often heard laid down in dry theory, that the game of war is but a gigantic chessboard, where the winner has always ground to trace his success much more to his adversary's blunders than to his own combinations, however skilful! 
               Over and over again did she bless that lucky inspiration which suggested the idea of drawing the major to that steep bank of the creek, which she had taken notice of when made a prisoner by the rebels; though, in the hurry and depression of her arrest, she had not observed the fallen log, which had so opportunely helped on her stroke for freedom. 
               Dora had no very precise idea of the location of the Union camp, but she knew in which direction it lay, and could guide herself toward it by the aid of the stars, especially of the Pole star-that safest of all guides to bewildered and belated travellers. 
               So she sped on her way fearlessly, and without any great caution, thinking herself beyond the reach of pursuit, which was true; but also deeming herself beyond the rebel lines, which she was not. And so it came to pass, Dora being on a long piece of open road, where the brush was not high enough to conceal her, she came suddenly on two men, who emerged from a low stone-shanty that, at the distance, she fancied was a large boulder of detached granite, so common in all those parts; and one of the men, presenting his piece, called out loud and sternly, "Halt!" 
               Nothing daunted, Dora went up to them and said, "I am proceeding from Colonel Winslow's camp; on important secret service. Major Ellis Randolph himself passed me through our outlying pickets, and the password is 'Immortal Calhoun.' It will be at your peril to hinder me." 
                
               "What d'ye think, mate?" said the sentry to his comrade. "Our orders are to stop all comers." 
               "Not those that have the password, I'm certain," said Dora. "Major Randolph told me that would take me through anywhere." 
               "Can't say, I'm sure," said the other. "Shall we let her pass, mate? Guess it's all right." 
               "Oh, yes, it's all right," said the other. "We needn't report her, you know; and she has the password, and that will justify us, if it's a mistake." 
               So Dora, who had been trembling in her skin all the time of this short colloquy, went on, blessing her stars that the major had given the password aloud, and. not, as he might have done, in a whisper. 
               This danger safely passed, thanks to the presence of mind which in the worst straits never forsook her, Dora arrived before daylight in the camp of a division of the army of the Cumberland, then under the command of General Rosecrans. 
               Being ushered into the general's tent as soon as he was ready to receive her, it being scarce day-break even at the time of her arrival, Dora presented herself as the bearer of despatches from the War Department at Washington, which she regretted she could not deliver sooner, having been detained a close prisoner in the rebel camp. 
               "Pray hand me the despatches, my good lady," said the general. "I hope they are not too late." 
               "Suiting the action to the word, and the word to the action," Dora smiled, and said, "The rebels set one of their women to search me all over, but I've managed to keep it safe;" and pulling off her shoe, she touched a small spring in the heel, and the bottom jumped up, when a closely-folded packet lay beneath, which she respectfully handed to the general. 
               "Many thinks, my dear madam, for the care you have taken of this. And now, let me pass you over to the mess steward, who will provide you the means of rest and refreshment." 
               Being thoroughly tired out, this was all that the fair refugee had need of. The precise particulars of her escape she thought best to keep till she was well rested, when she knew they would insure her an enthusiastic welcome. 
               On rising from the camp-bed to which the steward had shown her, Dora found herself entirely rested, and having breakfasted, she was once more conducted to the general's tent, who in the most flattering terms praised her address in the means by which she had managed to slip away from her house of bondage. 
               "The testimonal as to your merits, madam," he continued, "which is sent me by the War Department, is, I think, the most flattering of the kind which I have ever yet seen. I am given to understand that the present is by no means your entrance on this branch of the public service. May I ask, without offence, where they have been rendered?" 
               "In quite another part of the country, general, and to the chief of another army. Forgive me, if at present I decline to say more-personal afflictions of a trying nature shut me out for a time from my work-which was from the first unselfish and undertaken for it own sake. At length when the keenness of my sorrow was blunted I felt that I could only resume it on the condition of an entire change of scene and action, and the present is my first adventure under the new career." 
               "Your secret I need not say, my dear lady, shall be strictly respected. You shall rest in our camp a few days, and at that time, I shall probably be glad to avail myself of your services, in what direction you shall be fully advised." 
               Thus fairly established in camp on terms of her own dictating, Dora felt free in spirit to resign herself to the enjoyments of the hour, and was at once the centre of a large party of admiring shoulder-straps, who made her give them over and over again the particulars of the moonlight cold bath. 
               "Gad, fellows," said a full-shouldered and long-bearded colonel, "that rebel major 'll find himself in a warm corner when old Bragg comes to set on him!" 
               "Guess he'll blow his brains out," said a lieutenant, "to save it being done for him." 
               "Oh! goodness, I hope not," said Dora. "He really was a good fellow, only precious green." 
               "Moonlight walks, and bright eyes, and good singing do make a chap spooney," said the captain. 
               "Well, I hope they won't shoot him," said Dora, "I think I'd go back, rather than that." 
               "What, and change dresses with him, and get him off that way? Why you must be half in love with him, ma'am?" 
               "No, captain, not one spark of it. I'm a Union woman, staunch to the back-bone, and not a grain of love for rebels." 
               "The duece is in it, madam, that you've not made some fine fellow happy long ere now, you a staunch Union woman as you say." 
               Dora at once became grave, and her eyes half-filled with tears. But she struggled to hide them and said: "I'm not in the confessional, gentlemen. But you know this war has brought sorrow to untold numbers, and though I say not one way or other, why not to me too?" 
               The group who heard the words, with intuitive delicacy at once changed the subject. But the colonel, who saw in that short answer full evidences both of genuine woman's feelings, and habitual self-command against its weak indulgence, determined to take all fitting opportunities to acquire Dora's confidence, as it was evident the capacity for affection had not been driven from her nature, however bitter may have been the ordeal through which she had been doomed to pass. 
               More than a fortnight elapsed before the heroine of our story was once again summoned to the general's tent, and during all this time Colonel Morton was engaged, according to his own phrase, when taxed with it at the mess, in making his approaches, and narrowing the lines by degrees, so that when he should find it time to make the assault, he should find the walls undermined, so that the garrison should surrender at discretion. 
               And how did Dora conduct herself while all these preparations were going on? The reader will not want the information to be given him that she saw what was in the wind all the time. At first with indifference. "What was the colonel to her, or she to the colonel? But the officers were so constantly making her sing Queen Mary's hymn, that in spite of herself her thoughts were constantly turning to the romantic history of the ill-fated Queen, as it seemed somehow to be a parallel to her own. 
               "One might have thought," she would say to herself, in one of those long trains of musings to which the nature of her life, so often solitary, Constantly accustomed her, "one might have thought when she had buried King Francis and Darnley, that, after that she would not care for fresh husbands or lovers! But yet it was not so. First there was Bothwell and Douglas, and then again in her very prison, fresh suitors again encouraged and not forbidden. Really, love and all its consequences, its sorrows, entanglements and joys, seem after all to be truly a woman's portion, and my present career (however patriotic) is scarcely fitting after all! But yet why not? Cannot I, in my way, do better for the country than a man? Is it not certain that at my very last adventure a man would have been hung, whereas I, being a woman, am spared, and what is more, deliver my despatches?" Such was the tenor of her thoughts. In no Hurry to solace her bereaved heart by filling it with a fresh object, but by no means so wedded to the shadow of past affections as deliberately to reject any new offer that her reason and judgment might indorse, and so the days drifted on, and Dora, having no occupation for the time being than to throw herself into the interests and occupations of the hour, came gradually to look on Colonel Morton's attentions as part of the day's routine, She was not very urgently interested in them, and would, certainly have told any intimate female friend, had she had one, that she felt quite indifferent to them. But, for all that, as they continued to be rendered, with a delicacy and perseverance that no woman could fail to appreciate, at length her mind passed on to the point that perhaps some day it might be well to encourage them, though both in her own case and the colonel's, the distance at which any result could arrive seemed indefinite in the extreme. 
               At length the long-expected summons arrived, and Dora was once again in the general's tent to receive the necessary instructions. 
               "I am going," he said, "to entrust to your care some instructions of the highest moment, and before you take charge of them I wish you to understand that you are perfectly open to decline a service fraught with so much fatigue and danger. You must, however, be aware that the country between here and the Mississippi is so overrun either by guerilla bands, or regular armies or both, that even the communications between the different commanders are highly uncertain, and the old channel of the telegraph is now in many lines quite destroyed. Therefore once more, my dear madam, if you feel that you have had enough of this perilous service, say the word, and I will find another messenger." 
               "I beg you won't hint, dear general," said Dora, "as though you fancied my zeal was flagging; you have seen nothing in me, I trust, to countenance such an idea. I should think, too, you can have heard nothing." 
               "Certainly, I have heard nothing but what is all to your honor, madam. But, notwithstanding, I have had a hint from a certain brave colonel that if you were only to obtain an honorable discharge from this service, there's another, more congenial to your sex, on which you might be induced to enter." 
               The lady blushed till her olive complexion became crimson, saying, "Colonel Morton has no right to interest himself with any one about my concerns. I am angry, sir." 
               "You would never be so, madam, if you knew the delicacy and high honor of the colonel's feelings; he told me he had no right to speak, but yet he said he could not wish you to run again into risks of such deadly character." 
               "Thank God, general, I can take care of myself, with all deference both to you and Colonel Morton: so just be kind enough to give me my cue, and it shall go hard with me but what I manage, one way or other, to slip through the rebel meshes." 
               Of course the reader will scarcely wish to penetrate the veil of high state secrets. Perhaps from the nature of our own somewhat extensive researches (pray don't think us vain, good reader, but yet in a quiet way we do own to just a little self-reliance) perhaps we might, if inclined. favor the reader with a copy of them, but, as it is not essential to the story, we conclude, to maintain a patriotic reserve. 
               And Dora then received her instructions, which were to proceed to Memphis, and there deliver certain papers to the officer in command, after which she was to report herself to General Grant, wherever he might be at the time, in the neighborhood of the Mississippi. The instructions were in cypher, and the key hid in her shoe. Scarcely had our fair heroine left General Rosecrans's tent, when she was accosted by Colonel Morton, who begged her to take a turn with him out of camp. 
               "I'm very angry with you, colonel," she answered; "and I tell you it's best to keep your distance." 
               "Pray don't be angry, my sweet friend. I partly guess what you mean, and it's just on that subject I would speak. May I ask if you continue in your intention to leave us?" 
               "I continue, colonel, in the intention to serve the cause of the Unions? I am a single, solitary woman, without relations and without home-an alien, a stranger, an orphan; but for all that, I am devoted to the cause of the Union, first, foremost, and forever." 
               "A most heroic instance of patriotism, dear lady, and one which I honor and applaud-none I am sure can more zealously I Still, if you remain among us, there are thousands of services which none better than yourself can render to the great cause, and I for one hope that it is not too late for you to make the transfer." 
               "Colonel, I have received my parting instructions, and you know it is time to act on them as soon as given. Thank you for all your civility, and good-bye." 
               The colonel took her outstretched hand, saying: "Dear Dora, we must not part thus; we ate neither of us in the first blush of youth; the romance of young affection has probably passed over our heads, and left us-sobered, I suppose, but not flintstones. Believe me, it is not fit for you to continue to be a solitary, homeless woman. Join your destiny with mine; let your home still be the camp; your charge still to minister to its health and efficiency; but let us cheer each other to forget the burden of past sorrows, and meet the future as we can, in hope it will bring brighter days." 
               "I will not effect to misunderstand you, colonel"-and her hand was still lingering in his strong but tender grasp. "Yet you must know as well as I do, this war is no time for marrying and giving in marriage. If it were over indeed, or events should take a different form as to ourselves, then"-but she felt she was saying more than she meant, and with an instant reserve stopped herself from adding more. 
               But the colonel had no mind to be put off, so he said: "Well, suppose
                   
                   
                     Dora's movements were gentle and sly. The Captain seemed indeed to feel her, for when she had rifled one breast-pocket, and turned him bodily over to the other side, he stuttered out an oath, but in so uncertain a voice as all the more fully to assure her that she might safely complete her search.-Page 67. 
                  
                   pose things take another form-what then? speak candidly and truly, dear Dora. It's no time for prudery." 
               "Really, colonel, I can't say. I certainly am not in love with you, as women generally do and always ought to love the man they marry. At the same time, if it is any satisfaction to you to take up with a heart, the fresh feelings of which are in the grave of another, I don't mind saying, that if I marry at all, it shall be you-but not yet, colonel, it is not the time." 
               The colonel, after this partial Acceptance, threw his strong arm around his companion's waist, and lifting up her veil completed his acknowledgments in the Usual approved manner. 
               "Thank you for this qualified consent, my sweet friend; these stern days are too apt to clothe our feelings in a coat of mail like the old knights clad their bodies with. But in our case, dear Dora, the path of duty will soon open. However, I will not attempt to hinder you from venturing on this present career. But, while you are engaged in it, consider well if, after all, I don't lay before you the nobler mission, and if you agree in thinking so when next we meet, then the thread of our destiny shall be twined together. Shall it be so, dearest?" 
               "If you take me on my own terms, colonel-but pray are you a widower, or a bachelor, or a rake? I really ought to have asked all that before." 
               "Not a widower, dear Dora, nor a rake! But having been cruelly jilted by the girl whose love I sought, and whose promise I gained, I set myself down for an old bachelor, till you came across me, and the rest you know as well as I do." 
               "Oh, then," said the lady, "we meet somewhat on equal terms, and as neither I suppose will expect too much, perhaps it may end by turning out more than we count upon." 
               "God grant it," replied the colonel. "Take every care of yourself, for your own sake and mine." 
               "Farewell," said the lady. "Don't get shot, colonel. Keep up your spirits, but don't try to write to me. It's a hundred to one I shan't get it." 
               One more vigorous clasp of the colonel's stout arm, one more lifting of the veil, with a slight smack that might be heard beneath it, and the two sober lovers parted-the colonel to return to the camp, the lady to pursue once again her adventurous path through the world. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               NEW PERILS-REBEL GUERILLAS-REBEL MANNERS TO LADIES-A FEMALE DOCTOR AND HER PATIENTS. 
               BY the recommendation of the general in command, Dora was to travel as a woman, in which character a pass had been procured for her, through a good-natured rebel friend of, one of the officers, and she took the name of Mrs. Galveston, the widow of a Missouri planter, who was going to some friends down in Arkansas; and, having had some experience in the dangers and difficulties of travelling in war time the widow had concluded, that on the whole it was safest to do so with no escort beyond that of her own ready wit. 
               Accordingly, mounted on a tolerably good travelling horse, and with a valise containing the fewest possible clothes, the corners all stuffed with quinine and other valuable medicines, should she fall in with any sick Union men, or even sick rebels, Dora bid good-bye to the hospitable, camp, where a new chapter in life had so unexpectedly opened, and was once again alone in the forest. 
               Ah, little is it that mere dwellers in the city, or even in the modernized or reclaimed country, know or fancy as to the magnificence of the primeval forest! 
               It must be seen, to be appreciated and understood. Dora, with her warm, Southern, impulsive nature, and her keen zest for all that is beautiful in creation, was in her element of jubilant expectation, resting happy, in the sight of the magnificent groupings of the forest giants around her, and still more in the thought that she was doing what she could to restore that beautiful land to the sway of order and peace and law. 
               And thus she went on her way, watching the squirrels, gray, black, and brown, pursue their graceful gambols from tree to tree; while at times they would swing by the tendrils of some luxuriant creeper from one lofty height to another, making some instantaneous bend as the boughs neared each other, and then pushing merrily on their recently-gained throne, as though to echo the words of the poet- 
                      
                        "I am monarch of all I survey; 
                        My rights there is none to dispute." 
                     
                  
                
                
               But every time of happy movements less than of peaceful rest comes to its end at last, and, as the day was beginning to fall, Dora heard a company of horsemen approaching her; the sound of their hoofs being quite perceptible, as also the dust which they made, going along. At first she thought they did not see her, and, to avoid risk, as they would most probably be guerillas, she quietly slipped off the road, siding off into the timber. 
               But the spot was one of those where the ground is wholly unbroken; save by the shafts of the numberless vegetable columns which make up those grand primeval temples-the very type (as is perhaps not known to all our readers) from which the idea of Gothic architecture, the most picturesque and venerable in the world, has derived that rich tracery of intersecting arches, the combinations of which entrance all eyes. 
               The side-way movement of Dora had not escaped the eye of the leader of the band behind her. Unfortunately, too, these was no friendly scrub or brushwood to conceal her figure from the view. Speeding his horse to a gallop, the pursuing captain shouted out to her: 
               "Ho, there! you sneaking runaway. Come back here, or I fire." 
               Dora calculated the chances of escape, and, deciding that they were altogether against her on the whole, concluded to obey. 
               "What makes you wish to keep out of gentlemen's sight, missus? You're no good, I guess, or you'd not be afraid of honest men." 
               "I'm a poor widow lady, captain, travelling to some friends down in Arkansas, and as you know the country's in an unsettled state, I felt a little nervous, and so turned off the road, not knowing who it might be." 
               "Oh, that's all very fine, ma'am! But you'll excuse us: we're plain-talking chaps, and don't swallow at first gulp all the gammon folks palm on us. You may be a d-d Lincoln spy, like enough. Have you a pass?" 
               "Certainly, captain! Just look at it, signed by General Price himself. Oh, laws, captain, pray don't insult a poor widow by demeaning her down into a spy of Black Old Abe!" 
               And considering that the case called for a little female hysterics, Dora let her veil fall well down, and if she did not really cry, at all events acted it very well. 
               "Come, Captain Cantrell," said a private of the gang, "the poor lady's frightened; she's one of us, plain enough; the pass proved that; and didn't ye hear, old hoss? She said, 'Black Old Abe.'" 
               "I ain't caught with any such d-d chaff, Uriah; I ain't a going to pass this 'ere prisoner without further overhauling. I say, missus, just jump off, and open that trap o' your'n. If that's all right, I may let you go on, mayhap." 
               Dora felt she had got into a fix pretty soon, but it was no time or place for resistance: she must meet violence with a little harmless tact, and all might go well yet. So she dismounted and opened the valise, holding the few articles of dress in her hands, and in such a manner as to conceal the valuable medicines hid in the crevices and folds. 
               "You see, captain," she said, "it's nothing but just a change of clothes; you'll never go to rob a poor widow lady of them, surely?" 
               "Oh, let her pack 'em up, captain!" said her previous advocate. "You see it's all as she said." 
               "Guv me that 'ar dress, missus! I ain't a-going to cut it, nor tear it; but I be a-going to sarch it; and then, if it's all right, p'raps I'll guv it you back." 
               Thus saying, he snatched it from her hand, and, as his rude swing waved it through the air, down tumbled the various parcels that had been so neatly stowed away in the corners. 
               "Did not I tell ye, boys, there was some deviltry behind that smooth tongue of hern?" 
               And as he spoke, he picked up a packet of the medicine and opened it. 
               "What the devil's this?" said the captain, smelling at it, in some dismay. 
               "Why, captain, it's just a trifle of medicine that our friends said was often wanted down South for the sick. Guess you've heard of quinine, haven't ye?" 
               "May be I have, and may be I've not," said the guerilla captain, not caring to expose his ignorance. "Hows'ever, mates," he continued, "we'll just keep this woman's traps till we meets a doctor; and, if her drugs are good, why our sick can have them, and, if they're bad, why we can make her swallow a stiff dose herself." 
               At this alternative, several in the band laughed outright, one crying out, "By golly, Captain Cantrell, there's no such thing as slipping through your fingers." 
               "Guess not, Dan Perks," he answered. "Why, man, when I was a lad, I used to catch hold of the eels in the lake or river, and hold 'em in the curl o' my little finger, and watch 'cm grin and wriggle, and sometimes try to squeel; but says I to 'em, 'You've got to go into the sarcepan, and 'taint not a bit o' use trying, it on with me.' And guess this woman's a human eel, so I sarve her just the same road. Ho, there, Dan, boy! Pack up all them litters, and let's be moving." 
                
               "Guess we can't move much further to-night. The sun's down, and we ain't had no supper, nor even dinner. Eh, boys," said Da3%vturn-ing to the men, "ain't you all pretty peckish?" 
               A general shout answered this appeal; so the captain, who knew when to give way to the desire of his-men, gave the word to pitch camp, and the men instantly prepared to obey. 
               Dora sat in silent melancholy on a fallen log, holding her horse's reins, and still, in appearance, at least, sobbing from under her veil. 
               "Come, missus, shut up that 'ar," said Cantrell, in his roughest voice, tearing off her veil at the same time. "Eh! by golly, marm, your husband was a man of taste, rebel or no rebel, and mebbe I'll condescend to step into his shoes-who knows? But look alive; be spry and active, and see and get our supper cooked. D-n it, that's one use women are for, anyhow." 
               Dora, at this rough command, began to move about as if in prompt obedience; and, seeing the packets of medicine all littering about, began picking them up and putting them in her pocket. 
               "Quit that!" roared out Cantrell. But he was not quite in time to prevent one or two tiny packages from being retained on the sly, though he made her replace the rest, which he took the trouble to tie up with his own hands. 
               "Guess this ain't a bad haul, captain," said another of his men, quietly. "I ain't no scholard, but I've heard say quinine is worth five or six dollars an ounce, and ten or twelve dollars, and mebbe twenty, when you're far away from the drug stores, and has got a sick man as can't be fixed up by no other drug. It's worth its weight in gold, captain!" 
               Thus becoming more aware of the value of the prize, the captain somewhat relaxed the rudeness of his tones towards Dora. Indeed, the stolen glances which he continually threw toward her, as she was busy washing the meat which one of, the men pulled out from a very dirty haversack, were of a nature that inspired considerably more painful alarm than the rough bluster which he at first showed toward her. 
               Observing this most painful change, with true feminine delicacy, Dora kept her back towards the captain, and, in every way, made it plain that she wished to have as little to do with him as possible. 
               But, in the meantime, her thoughts were arranging themselves. 
               However, the captain did not seem to mean she should continue to hold him at arm's length, for he called out, "Come, missus, don't be skeered like, as though old Silas Cantrell was no better than a mad bull. Golly, missus, tell'ee what I'm the boy as knows a quick hand and a nimble ancle as well as ere a young springald on 'em all; and mebbe I'll make you a captain's lady 'fore we part company. But I'll see how you cook supper first. So now do your best, marm," he added, smiling. 
               Dora was now convinced that perils worse than mere robbery might, perhaps, be very near at hand, and the conviction came in reasonable time to mature a half-formed idea which had seemed a little questionable at first, but now appeared necessary. 
               Quinine was not the only medicine contained in Dora's valise; and, though the captain had made her disgorge several packages which she had put in her pocket, there still remained one of morphine, which she determined should now be made use of. 
               During the intervals of her more exciting scenes of adventurous service, Dora had spent much time in the camp-hospitals, assisting the surgeons in their work, and mixing medicines for their patients. She therefore knew pretty tolerably what amount of the poisonous drugs might be administered without destroying life, and especially in the narcotics, and could adjust the dose according to the time desired to throw the patient into a forced sleep. 
               Fortunately for Dora, the task assigned her of cooking supper enabled her, without the least suspicion of danger, to carry out her new idea. The only doubt in her mind was how much morphine she might venture to administer, as it was neither her wish nor intention to injure "the house of life." On the whole, she concluded the best way was to season up the meat with plenty of salt and pepper, so as to drown any taste of the narcotic drug, and, in like manner, to sweeten the coffee, so that, between meat and coffee, every man in the troop should drop asleep soon after he had done his supper. 
               The failing light came in most luckily to assist the execution of the plan, and the company sat down, as soon as she had got supper ready, in the most eager ease, to do ample justice to it. 
               The captain smelt the savory meal, and smiled. "Eh, widow!" he said, "guess you'll get promoted. But I'll tell'ee more about it after supper." And so he fell to work with the appetite of a hungry campaigner. 
               According to the general custom, Dora waited on the men as they went on with their supper, taking special care that their plates should be replenished with the meat and broth, and their tincups with hot and sweet coffee, as quickly as they had emptied the previous supply down their throats. As they were all hungry, and had no suspicion of any danger, they indulged their Cravings without stint, and when they had done, Dora refreshed herself with bread and butter, and cold water, and bent on watching the result. 
               It was not long in coming. One head after another leaned wearily back. One rough form after another stretched itself at full length on the rough sod of the virgin forest, and heavy stertorous breathing soon announced how complete had been the effect of the dose infused into the common mess-dish. 
               Still, the strongest heads among the party appeared to struggle against the influence coming over them, and Dan Parks, who had been detailed as sentry for the night, and was not as yet quite mastered, reeled up to the captain and said: "Dang it, captain, I'm thinking this widow's hocussed the mess. Look'ee there! Our boys 'aint used to drop off till they've had their 'lowance o' whisky, eh, captain! Why be you gone off top?" 
               The captain just swore one oath and told him to be off, and the sentry having tried to keep awake by moving backwards and forwards, at length tripped over a loose stone, tumbled o-n the ground, and was as soon fast bound as the rest. 
               "Thank God!" cried Dora, as she watched the last straggler, for now she saw herself free to proceed on her way, "Thank God, I can now take my time, and move on without fear of molestation!" 
               Her first care accordingly was to restore her little valise to its proper condition, which she did as well as the light admitted of. And then, having run over, which horse she should take, finally decided on the captain's, as it was probably the best, and besides, the holsters might contain some prize of value. Accordingly she founds pair of capital revolvers there, and one thought having led to another, she saw no reason why she should not ransack the captain; probably he might have despatches upon his person that would be useful at the Union camp. 
               Dora's movements were gentle and sly. The captain seemed indeed to feel her, for at one time, having rifled one breast-pocket she had to turn him bodily over to the other side, to complete the search, which having resolved upon, she was not going to have only half done. The captain stuttered out an oath, but with so uncertain a voice that it only made her more assured she might do any thing she pleased with him, and he proved not only to have some important instructions freshly come from Price and Van Dorn, but also a large pocket-book stuffed full of greenbacks, in value of three thousand dollars. This was indeed an unexpected haul, and though not caring much for money, she determined that it fairly belonged to her, and might be useful some day, especially if she should conclude to terminate her present career, and accept Colonel Morton's offer. 
               And now, once more in the saddle, with the exhilarating consciousness of having escaped untold dangers, and acquired valuable military secrets, Dora gayly cantered along beneath the silvery light of the moon, admiring the delicate beauty of the half-concealed, halt-exposed glades of the forest, as the fitful shadows of the light passing clouds made them more or less distinct to her. 
               What a glorious landscape it was 1 Those giant forms towering up half way to the sky, and ever and anon the stillness broken by some doe or fawn bounding across the road, whose light slumbers had been disturbed by the prancing hoof of her charger, as he struck some detached stone, and the fire flashed at the blow. 
               "Surely," thought Dora to herself, "mine is a charming life. How full of interest, and adventure, and romance! Who would not embrace it a thousand times over, in comparison with the vapid elegancies of fine city young ladies, or even the healthier humdrum of common farm-life? Ah dear, but I'm not quite so sure. Now just fancy how I should have been at this moment, but for that half-ounce packet of morphine? Or indeed just the same, if it hadn't struck me what so do with it. Just fancy having to struggle with that brutish robber in the depths of the forest, and no help or deliverance at hand. Truly I think Colonel Morton is right in saying that mine is not the true sphere for a woman: ah me! who knows? certainly, not for most women. But somehow, I'm like the cat, and always fall on my feet. I wonder what General Grant will say to me for this packet of papers." 
               Such were her meditations, turned over and over again as she pursued her way to General, Grant's camp. She had the most favorable opportunity to pursue them undisturbed, for every one that thinks about it must be aware, that in the garish light of day, the faculties of the mind are never in such tune to mature any given course of action, as when, all disturbing and distracting subjects being out of the way, a decision can be arrived at simply on the merits of the case, and being arrived at, acted upon with spirit and determination. 
               On the whole, we think the ladies won't want us to inform them that the balances in Dora's mind, as she thus roamed "in maiden meditation fancy free," had a very decided tendency to decline downwards in favor of Colonel Morton's offer. 
               Morning brought her to a village where she found a brigade of Ohio volunteers, under the well known and brave Colonel Hurst, and joining herself to them, on their march toward General Grant, she wag relieved from all anxiety as to dangers similar to that from which her presence of mind had just rescued her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE SISTER OF MERCY-SHORT-LIVED REBEL TRIUMPH-ROBINSON CRUSOES ON THE MISSISSIPPI. 
               Dora continued with Colonel Hurst's division till they joined the camp of the army of the Cumberland, then encamped between the Mississippi and the Tennessee. Arrived in the camp, she at once sought an interview with the brave chief, who received her with true soldierly politeness. 
               On handing to him the despatches which she had rifled from Cantrell's pocket, the general's eyes glistened, as he saw, with eagle-glance, their high, military value. 
               "Oh!" he said, "those rebs think to catch a weasel asleep, do they? Ah, well, never mind, forewarned is forearmed! Pray, ma'am, how could you get hold of these papers?" 
               "A very simple affair, general," said our heroine. "It was just a trial of woman's wit against man's brute strength; and I'm not the first that has won in that kind of game. It's true, I didn't like to drive a nail into his head, as Jael did to Sisera, nor cut it off, as Judith did to Holefernes; but I cleaned him out both of money and papers, and, general, as I suppose the money is a fair prize to the captor, perhaps you'll take charge of it for me and put it into Uncle Sam's bonds, which is the safest place, I guess, for those who keep the camp." 
               "You can't do a wiser thing, my dear madam; I will see that all is properly done, and, in the meanwhile, give you a receipt till the bonds are duly come to hand." 
               Dora had now no particular duty before her, and made herself useful in the hospitals, where a little extra help was always welcome. 
               But this was not the sphere to which Dora's wishes at present swayed her. If she adopted that path at all, it should be where Colonel Morton was near her. But still, a brief pause between the excitement and perils of a female scout was not unwelcome; and she felt, when it had continued for a time, all the better braced up to venture on some new career. 
               General Grant, in the meantime, did not forget her; he only waited till he had an errand for her-that he judged more suitable than if placed in charge with a man. 
                
               "Miss Dora," he said, when she was once again summoned to his tent, "General Rosecrans has given me to understand that your services are purely those of an amateur. As such, of course, I feel an extra delicacy in suggesting to you any perilous errand, even beyond what I might feel from considerations of sex alone." 
               "Don't have the least scruples, general," she replied. "I've run my head into so many traps, and generally managed to steal the bait and get safe off. I don't feel at all afraid but what I can do the same again; for indeed, general, you can't think how I enjoy the fun!" 
               "I've only heard of one woman in all this war to match you, Miss Dora; and her name was-let me think a moment-Pauline-yes, that was it-Pauline of the Potomac, they called her. I've heard many a camp story of her feats; but, poor thing, I don't know where site is now!-I heard McClellan say that an officer she was engaged to was shot by the rebels, and the poor girl went into a brain-fever, and has not been heard of since. I guess she must have died." 
               Dora sighed; but a smile twinkled round her mouth, and, without thinking further, she said, "Did she die, general?" 
               "Why do you ask so earnestly? said the general. "Was she any relation of yours?" 
               "I rather fancy she may have been-a distant one, I mean; but I can't say, general." 
               "Ah, madam, be that as it may, she was a splendid girl, and you appear to be such another, and I'm glad there are such in our cause; for they're worth their weight-I won't say in gold, but rather in rubies or diamonds." 
               "Thank you for the compliment, general. But now, my instructions! Where am I to go?" 
               "My instructions this time, my dear lady, must be very vague. I hardly know how to give them, except in a general form. Our communications along the Mississippi are now tolerably safe, though subject to occasional interruptions. Still, at St. Louis, Cairo, and even almost at Memphis, information duly lodged at the quarters indicated on this paper, which you will commit to memory, and then destroy, is certain to reach me at an early day. Now, the service I wish to assign, though really too dangerous to offer to you-still some one, I suppose, must do it-is to venture alone into the wilder parts of Missouri and ascertain on the spot-for really no reports except those of eye-witnesses are reliable-what is the number of rebel bands now ravaging the country-their probable or proximate strength, and all particulars of their plans and movements that can by any means be laid hold of? But, if it is too formidable to undertake, you may say so without the least dishonor." 
                
               Dora had listened attentively to this speech. In reply, she said: 
               "General, I'm not the woman to be deterred by any amount of difficulties; but I suppose the nature of the country is more primitive, and places of rest or refuge much fewer and further away." 
               "Say in plain words, madam,(that the country, or the great bulk of it, still in primeval savagery, is rendered much more so than ever by the hordes of dirty and brutal marauders who now roam over it. Fancy every peril to a pure and honorable woman that imagination can depict-every discomfort, from bad and poor food, and worse accommodations, in cooking it-realize the risks of fever and ague coming on you, when far removed from friends or comfort, and if you dare venture on it all, I say, God be with you; but if you wait for a less dangerous errand, God knows no man can blame you." 
               "Your candor is highly honorable, general," our heroine firmly replied. "I could have imagined all this myself; but now you say these things, I take them for granted; but I will go all the same. Have you any thing more to add?" 
               "Nothing, ma'am, except that you must carefully study the instructions I will now give you, and when learnt by heart, must destroy them. In fact, not even in that tiny little shoe (he glanced at Dora's, foot as he spoke), not in the most secret plait of corsette or any other recess of female apparel, must a single scrap of writing be found, to betray your true errand! You'll bear in mind, that in those rough parts the rebels themselves, by nature more violent than in the older settled regions, are there controlled by no press and by no scruples, and they will hang a woman without hesitation; and the odds are a hundred to one; we on this side the river would never know it, though we might perhaps suspect it." 
               "I can find some excuse or other, general, I dare say. There's one thing, I know the ground, at least enough* to tell one what the rest is, so I'm not like a new pioneer." 
               "I can see you are not, madam. I'm vastly obliged to General Rosecrans, for favoring me with your assistance. And now, if you will go, I believe that, is all-and join me when you can." The general shook hands with tender gallantry, and Dora left him to prepare for the road. 
               Taking the rail to Cairo, she was to procure a horse at that garrison, and then cross into Missouri, and be guided by events. 
               The most important point she had to consider was what color to give to her journey, or rather under what character it could be most safely performed. At first she thought it would do best to continue to pass herself off as a widow, on a journey to relations so distant as to be out of the reach of inquiry or research. But on consideration, having in mind the danger that her good looks had so nearly brought upon her, when in the power of the licentious Cantrell, she determined to adopt the uniform of the Sisters of Charity-a character which her religious belief as a Roman Catholic, and her experience of nurse in the hospitals, doubly qualified her to act with consistency and success. 
               Having therefore arrayed herself in the new disguise, she took an opportunity of edging her way, in spite of some opposition, into General Grant's tent, and he, being engaged rather deeply, with considerable sternness bade her withdraw, or come to him at a more tit season. 
               "Good-bye, general," she cried. "I thought I'd let you see me before I started. I'm Sister Francesca, at your service." 
               "Bless me, Miss Dora!" he said, bursting into a laugh. "Why, it's you, I declare I Well, I'm sure your own mother wouldn't know you, but by the voice. Thank you, for this peep. I know I've got the right style of card in you. Good-bye-God bless you!" 
               "Good-bye general. No last words, I suppose, are there?" 
               "No, thank you I Well, gammon the rebels all you can, through that thick veil of yours." 
               Dora smiled and left the tent: "There goes about the pluckiest girt in America!" said the general to the officers round him. 
               Notwithstanding her high bearing when in General Grant's presence. Dora was not without some natural shrinking from the combined risks which the present course was leading her. However, it wan all plain sailing to get by the cars to Cairo, and the information she gleaned there, as to the most recent proceedings of the guerillas, was very useful in guiding her steps as she entered that wild border land. 
               The first region that Dora had to traverse was the ground between Iron Mountain and the great river, at certain points of which she was to turn her steps inland, and live out at times-it might be for days together-to ascertain the locality of the most active and notorious bands. 
               The main thing that struck our heroine on her entrance to this wild but picturesque region, was the exceeding sparse nature of the population. Never more than thinly settled, a vast proportion of the rude but once comfortable log-buildings had been pulled down, wholly or partially; leaving the beholder to imagine what they once had been, when the chirp of children and the voice of women sounded cheerfully around them. But what was it now? The blackened heaps of ashes, with their charred fragments of rails; the smouldering ruins of ample ricks, hay, wheat or oats; told of hostile bands that had done wanton damage to the utmost of their fleeting power. And Dora, her devout livery calling the verses she had often chanted in chapel to her recollection, said-"A fruitful land maketh he desolate, for the wickedness of then that dwell therein." 
               In fact, when fairly launched on her new sphere of observation, she found that it was necessary to make definite inquiries, and somewhat in advance too, as to where she should obtain food and shelter for the nights, as one by one came on during her long and laborious travels. 
               All she learnt was that the principal bands were then retired considerably into the interior, where they amused themselves with burning the houses of loyal Unionists, and stealing their cattle and carrying off their slaves, whom they kidnapped off down South into Arkansas, to raise cotton on those plantations which it was fondly deemed (ah! short-sighted delusion) were beyond the long reach and strong arm of Uncle Sam, and the large lot of brave boys that backed him. 
               In fact, considerable time passed without any particular adventure. Our heroine, in the meantime, had made out the best way she could, and often had no other food than the fish she caught in some creek, boiled into a kind of stew, with a stray ear or two of corn, picked up near some desolate homestead. Dora was beginning to fancy that her time was altogether being thrown away, when an incident occurred to revive within her the spirit of adventure, now become much fainter for want of being kept in exercise. 
               It was late one autumn evening, as Dora was returning toward the great "father of waters" from a cruise over wood and prairie that had proved of very barren results, and then, hearing a loud firing, our heroine made her way through the woods as near the scene of action as she judged safe. 
               Her practised senses soon made known to her the facts. A rebel battery, situated on one of those picturesque castellated kind of rocks between St. Louis and Cape Girardeau, had opened fire on a steamer going down to Memphis, with a cargo on board for the garrison there. The gun being a heavy one, and the Clara Dobree steamer none of the most substantial, the first shot that struck her gave such a blow that the captain said two or three more like it would send cargo and crew to the bottom. 
               Accordingly, not wishing to run the risk of that issue, he gave orders (and, whether prudently or cowardly, we won't stop to argue) to lower the Stars and Stripes flag, in token of surrender to the attacking party. 
               This being done, the firing ceased, and a boat from the battery rowed off to the middle of the stream and took possession of the crippled vessel. At this juncture; Dora saw that the fight was over and she determined to venture down to the shore and take a part. 
               A very brief glance told her that the rebels were triumphant; and, having heard shots, she got herself taken on board, on pretence of offering her services to any wounded men. 
               It made no difference at all, when once on board the steamer, that, none being wounded, there was no call for her aid. "That," she said to herself, "is so much the better, as it leaves me all the more free to act for the good old flag." 
               She therefore took the first possible moment to draw the captain of the steamer on one side, and, by a little judicious sounding, before she concluded to give him a hint of her real character, she ascertained that the captain was a staunch Union man, and one that would cooperate zealously for the purpose of saving his boat and giving the rebels the slip. 
               Finding the men sent on from the rebel fort were only ten in number, our heroine ventured to assure the captain that, if he would let her manage for him, the vessel should be free and far away down the stream within an hour after dark; and the captain, who was partly ashamed of having given in at so early a summons, consented to act by her suggestions, though he did not choose to let the crew know but that they came from himself. 
               The men sent on board from the fort, not having been chafed into passion by any heat of conflict, and finding themselves in close contact with a vast array of creature comforts to which, in that out-of-the-way garrison, they were pretty nearly total strangers, determined to have what is called "a good time of it," and had been making themselves familiar with the state of the larder, and giving orders to the steward to get them a "bully supper" ready off hand. 
               The captain and Dora saw all this-the former with chopfallen looks, the latter with an arch smile of her approaching triumph. "Why do you look so bright?" asked the captain. "I guess it's no laughing matter to see a lot of hungry devils fall to and ransack all the best of our victuals." 
               "I'll just go and speak to the steward," answered Dora. "They shan't have but one feed out of you, captain, take my word for it." 
               "Well, marm, for a nun, you do take on pretty stiff. Howsoever, go your own way, and, if you get us quit o' them darned varmints; I'll may be turn Papist myself." 
               But Dora did not consider her mission to be that of proselytizing, so she merely slipped a little powder into the soup the steward was making, and came up-stairs on deck, bringing a small jug full of nice lemonaded grog, which she poured out, a full glass apiece, to the four
                   
                   
                     But as he took the pass from her unwilling hand, he flirted off the peddler's cap with a jerk from his rough brown hand, and observing the long black hair, with a loud horse-laugh, he cried-"We're in luck, my lads! Here's a girl, and not an ugly one! Peddler, by the Lord! We'll teach her another trade! Eh, lads?"-Page 109. 
                  
                   sentries who, with loaded rifles and bristling bayonets, kept possession of the deck, while the rest sat down to the "bully supper" prepared by the steward. 
               The truth was, our heroine held no very great admiration for the captain, who she considered had proved unequal to the trust reposed in him, and therefore she did not care to bestow her full confidence on him, nor explain the reason that made her face so radiant with smiles. 
               Night began to close in; but, before it became needful to show the customary red light at the mast-head, Dora took the captain round to the party in the cabin, and again on deck to the four sentries, all stretched on the deck, fast asleep, and said, "Now, captain, have the steam got up as quick as you can, and drop down with the stream right away." 
               "God bless us, Miss Nun! But you've quite done the job for me. Law, what an almighty fool I was to leave 'a woman to teach me how to do a bit of commonplace hocussing. Such an easy job, after all. Confound these rascal reb's, they shall be tied up in sacks, and a shot in each, and go to feed the sturgeons and catfish." 
               "No, captain, you shan't do that," said Dora. "I won't have any thing so cruel. They're my prisoners, and they shall either be given in charge at Memphis, or, if you wish something out of the common, and happen to know of any island out of the regular channel, where boats don't pass by, I won't be against your landing, them, to play Robinson Crusoe for a few weeks, and let them live on roots or berries, or fish or muscles, till they can get back to their comrades. That will be a capital bit of fun, and then you won't have their ghosts-haunting you." 
               "By the Lord, Miss Nun, if that 'aint a tip-top dodge of yours. Now I'll have it all done as you say, and when the rascals wakes up, they won't know where: they are, and they can't get off, for I know the very spot for 'em." 
               Accordingly, when some miles down the stream, where the waters parted into a number of large islands, and one behind the other made the main channel altogether invisible, the rebel garrison, still buried in profound slumber, were tipped one by one into the boat, and laid down among reeds and willows, and, with a refinement of mischief no two within sight of each other, though of course they were certain to discover their companions, before they had been half an hour awake. 
               Dora having come on board the steamer, and knowing that the ruse on the rebel garrison would be discovered at the latest by the morning, concluded to remain on board, and take passage at least as far as Memphis, in the neighborhood of which city she expected to find General Grant, to whom she had information to communicate, though not of so much importance as she could have desired. 
               The captain of the steamer, when his anger against the rebels was appeased by the appropriate punishment inflicted on their garrison, turned his mind to the best means of saving his own credit with the public, and also, thereby doing away with the possibility of a claim for salvage by Dora, should, she determine to make one. In this calculation of meanness, he made the common error of supposing all others as mean as himself, and he came to the desperate resolution of denying to Dora all credit for the recovery of the vessel. Indeed, before he landed/at Memphis he had made up his mind to say that big surrender, from the beginning, was nothing more than a ruse, intended to save the vessel from being battered to pieces, and that he meant all along to recover possession by hocussing the prize crew sent on board, which he accordingly successfully performed. Dora, to do her justice, had never formed any selfish calculations on the subject. The vessel; was recovered to its owners, the stores were once more in possession of the government-that was all she cared for. What was salvage to her? Was it for money that she gave her time, and risked life and honor? No, indeed. 
               The captain, however, maintained a civil behavior to his crapeveiled ally, and as for the crew, and the passengers, Dora found herself, as indeed she did almost everywhere, the most popular person on board. But some few faces might have been seen, had she been in the mood to watch them narrowly, where quite another expression prevailed, but Dora heeded them not. 
               However, when they had been landed a few hours at Memphis, the cat was let out of the bag, and next morning a paragraph appeared in a certain paper, the editor of which was notorious for his venal meanness, which ran to the following effect: 
               "We are given to understand, that on the Clara Dobree, river steamer, which has arrived safely with passengers and a cargo of government stores from St, Louis, there is an impostor of most plausible but contemptible character, who is now preparing to palm off a claim of monstrous dimensions on the gullible good nature of Uncle Sam. This female-whether pick-pocket or not, we cannot say-is in the garb of a sister of mercy, and of course in that capacity is not without a numerous train of partisans. We understand she claims to have recovered possession, by her single generalship, of the above-named steamer, which was temporarily captured by some rebel guerillas* from a hidden fort on Point du Galle, a rock some miles above Cape Girardeau. The truth; is, she came on board the vessel at that, time, and at once commenced a course of meddlesome interference, which, if done by a man would have led to a summary ejection by way of a cold bath in the river, but being a woman, she obtained access to the steward; and taking advantage thereof, now asserts that with her own hands she prepared the narcotics that silenced the rebel garrison, and by means of which, on the approach of dark, the gallant captain gave the rebels the slip, and triumphantly rescued his vessel, now safe at this port. The fact is, the captain's feigned surrender was nothing but a masterly ruse: he knew night was at hand, and that then he would have the game in his hands, and as the event proved the justice prudent calculations, we see not Why he should be robbed of his laurels by the unprincipled claim of a nameless impostor." 
               Of course this most forcibly veracious diatribe had not been in print more than one full hour before Dora, who was once again indulging in the luxury of a comfortable bed at her hotel, was made aware of the outcry raised upon her. At first it was hard to say which set of feelings predominated, indignation or ridicule. But a short spell of Reflection satisfied her that as such a charge against her character had been made, it must be met and parried in full, as it would never do to sit down tamely under the imputation of making herself a party to such a monstrous fraud. Happily for justice and human nature, the means were at hand, though not without some labor and patience, to set this monstrous calumny in its true position before the World. 
               Still, as Dora came to put her case in order, and summon from their various abodes the witnesses of the transaction as it really occurred, she found that the captain had already induced several; both among the passengers and crew, to adopt his version of the story, though they admitted, that in common with the multitude, they had at first accepted that set afloat on the event becoming known, giving the credit to Dora. 
               Dora having no personal interest in the matter, it never having crossed her unselfish head to claim large salvage in money, determined to leave the case with a loyal young lawyer at Memphis, while she herself hastened to make report to General Grant, who was with his army in the neighborhood of the Tennessee river. 
               Though to herself the time spent in the solitudes of Missouri appeared only time lost, from the absence of special adventure in which she Would have enjoyed bearing a part; when all the information she had collected came to be presented in one mass, it proved al very welcome addition to the military memoranda, Which the general kept constantly before him to guide his forthcoming calculations. 
               The matter of the recovery of the steadier he settled in very few words: "The only reason, my dear lady," he said, "this sneaking" fellow has ventured on such a charge is, that he took you to be without friends and without influence. But I'll just make him learn the contrary. One of my aides-de-camp shall proceed to Memphis, with a line from me, and you shall have such reward for your services as shall be proportioned to the value of the recovered stores. Hang him! being only on merchant service, he must be left to the scorn of the people. If he had been in the navy, we'd have had him court-martialled and cashiered." 
               The result of this matter was, that the authorities speedily awarded the sum of five thousand dollars to Dora, as a reward of her presence of mind, the whole of which she was proposing to devote to the fund for relieving sick soldiers, but, by General Grant's advice, she retained the half herself, which was added to her previous investment in Uncle Sam's bonds. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               FEMALE VANITIES AND WANDERING JEWS-JONAS AND HIS TELEGRAPH SIGNALS-MIDNIGHT CATASTROPHE. 
               WHEN once again in, the Union camp, Dora was soon, as on former occasions, the rallying point and centre of all the officers, who sought to combine amusement and information, during the frequent intervals that they were not engaged in actual duty. 
               Though by far the greater portion of her own time was passed in the hospitals, she found it unwise to deny herself regular periods of pretty long absence, as in truth the sickly atmosphere exhaling from so many fevered mouths, and the still more nauseous effluvia from sloughing wounds and amputated limbs, would soon, she saw, pull down her constitution to such a point of weakness that she would be unable to resume her duties of active and stirring motion. 
               And thus, alternating between camp gossip and the duties of a Sister of Mercy, the uniform of which order she still wore; simply as not deeming it worth while to change it, the weeks passed on, till she was once more summoned to the general's presence, as a signal for the resumption of active service. 
               "Miss Dora," said the general, "I know Dr. Bowers will sadly miss you; but tell me frankly, are you in the humor for another cruise? I don't think it will be so long, or so rough a one, as the last." 
               "Oh, to be sure I am, general. I am getting quite ashamed of myself, hanging on in this way, and doing almost nothing." 
                
               "Ah, you are modest, my fair friend. The patients in the hospital don't speak of you as doing nothing. They I am sure won't thank me, but still the service has other needs." 
               "Of course it has, general. Just name those now required, and if I can forward them, here I am!" 
               "That is just what I-expected from your zeal, dear lady. And now I will explain. We are much troubled by the gangs of smugglers who on every conceivable false tale, and by known and even unknown private paths, manage to convey supplies, especially of medicine and the lighter but still necessary articles of clothing, which they run through into the rebel lines, and dispose of almost always to an immense profit. Now our army police do wonders, but they find the task even greater than their staff can keep level with, and I have thought of getting you to step in, as an amateur, and find out all their dodges, such as have hitherto escaped our regular detectives." 
               "A capital lark, I've no doubt, general, and one quite to my mood; because I suppose rifles and revolvers won't be quite so plenty as in some quarters that my service has led to." 
               "Glad you like it, dear lady," said the general. "Here are the names on this paper, of certain parties at Nashville, suspected of being the prime movers in this contraband trade; also those of others at Knoxville, believed to be in league with them. I will procure you a rebel pass, through a secret channel which I have at command, and Colonel Truesdale, the head of the army police corps, will make you acquainted with those secret signs which constitute the freemasonry of that lynx-eyed body, by whom, considering their small numbers, such wonderful results are brought about." 
               Such being the key-note to her newly approaching career, Dora left the tent to meditate on what assumed part she should step forth on the stage of life. On this point so much would hinge that she must take fit time to decide on her costume, and to study the role best fitted to it. After much thought, and some natural struggle with female instincts and delicacy, which, however, at the present crisis, she determined to keep out of sight, she resolved to don herself in male attire, and assume the part of a country lad, accustomed to teaming, and on the look out for a regular paying job. On the score of prudence, to guard against accident, she determined to cut off her long black hair, but as it was her own, and would make a splendid front and also tiara head-dress, when she should once more become an ostensible woman, she pleased herself with putting up the cherished locks in such picturesque fashion, as should leave her at no loss in regard to diminished handsomeness, and this done, she placed the box in safe keeping to await her return to camp. 
                
               Her other preparations were of the very simplest kind: a single change of under-garments, and a light blouse to cover her person, should the suit of butternut in which she was arrayed be wet through by any sudden storm, comprised her whole equipment; and staining her hands to give the look of coarse farm-labor, and tying up her white neck in a rough, country-looking comfortable, she presented herself at the tent to wish the general good-bye. 
               The sudden appearance of the figure made General Grant believe it was a mistake. "Guess you want the quartermaster, boy," le said. "Go away, for I'm busy: any one will tell you his quarters." 
               Dora laughed in her natural, ringing tone: "Good-bye, once more general," she said. "I thought you should see how I was fixed up!" 
               "By the powers, Miss Dora!" he cried, bursting into a laugh. "Why, you're like Proteus of old, and beat him at his own trade!" 
               "General, I once had a few lessons from a living Proteus, and I'm happy to see they're useful now." 
               "Well, good-bye, lady, and here's to our next merry meeting!" filling two glasses of Catawba from a flask which he got from the chest. 
               Dora pledged him and shook hands as she parted; and, departing to the nearest station, took the cars for Nashville, where she was to make her first start. 
               The capital of Tennessee was, it is true, in the hands of the Union forces; but the host of either avowed rebels or secret sympathizers made it a post scarcely of less value, in point of social convenience, to the rebel army under Bragg and others, than it had been while occupied by their troops as a garrison town. Dora's first care, on entering this new sphere of labor, was to put herself in communication with the officer at Nashville, to whom she had been referred for instructions. For obvious reasons, we do not give his name; as, in our opinion, it is far better to maintain a prudent reserve on such facts as we may obtain possession of, touching State secrets, than to blate them out, as is too often done by thoughtless and vain men, who think far more of parading their boasted information than of the all important point, whether it is for the good of the service that such knowledge should be proclaimed from the house-top. 
               Our readers must therefore accept this apology, should there be any points in this true narrative which they consider are left too much in the shade. There is enough said, in our humble judgment, to satisfy all reasonable curiosity. Beyond that, if we say too little for their inquisitive faculties, we must beg them to lay it to the true cause, and excuse the omission. 
               There was settled in one of the side-streets of Nashville, in as secluded and unconspicuous a part of the town as you could well pick out, an Israelite family by the name of Benjamins, consisting of father and son, mother and daughter. The father was a keen-eyed but wizen-faced little man, somewhere between fifty and sixty, who never looked you full in the face, but yet directed his side-long glances as though he felt sure you were trying to take him in-only he was determined he wouldn't let you. 
               The son, less wrinkled, of course, and therefore more frank-looking, was evidently a wide-awake kind of youth, who could hoodwink any one Hot sharply on his guard; and the two were busy when Dora came first to their house, the former making up parcels, the latter washing the numerous stains of travel off the paint of a large wagon, which was evidently fresh come from a journey in heavy dirt-roads. 
               Dora, whom for the present we will call by her assumed name of Jonas-Jonas (we will say, with the reader's leave) pulled his cap with a kind of polite twitch, and said he was a poor lad, wanting a job, arid he guessed he should suit them, as he'd been used to groom horses and fix up wagons, when in service at St. Charles, Missouri. 
               Benjamin, Senior, happened to be rather chary of his personal trouble, and as he could afford to pay for help, he did not care to do dirty jobs, if he could hire help cheap, and Dora's disguise was so complete that it effectually disarmed his habitual caution, and be directed himself merely to the exercise of his intuitive gift in screwing the poor, houseless youth down to a mere fractional rate of wages. As this point was not the least important to Jonas, he took the offer, protesting at the same time that he hardly knew how five dollars a month was to keep him in shoes and clothing; but he was a poor lad, without home or friends, and he hoped they would soon raise him! 
               This account of himself made the shrewd Israelites happy in thinking they had secured a safe and very cheap servant, and accordingly they continued their preparations, by no means concealing from their recent acquisition the nature of the stores that would be conveyed in the next trip, as the old man employed Jonas to help him in tying up the packages, as soon as he had completed the drudgery of mopping away the mud from their spring-wagon. 
               As the work went on, and in their quiet yard they deemed themselves safe from observation, the old man desired his son and Jonas to lift out the box that fitted to the bottom of the wagon, and was in truth a false bottom, extending the whole space of the wagon, and let down1 as low as would escape ordinary observation, even below the level of the axles of the wheels. 
               Of course this gave a very considerable space at the service of the owner of the team. The body of the wagon was, moreover, so contrived, that the flat-well between the two sets of boards would never attract suspicion. But no sooner was it taken out, than the old Jew had it into the house, where the task of packing it commenced in earnest. Oh, what a large and promiscuous array there was of gay and costly merchandise! Handsome rolls of brocaded silk ribbons, elegant French gloves, delicate lace-collars, silk dresses, brilliant shawls of all textures, with the more homely but not less necessary print dresses, and pieces of plain domestics, too. Besides these, were innumerable packages of fancy articles, combs, brushes, cheap jewelry, bottles of scents, packages of medicines, a whole string of the leading drugs of the pharmacopia-quinine and morphine and strychnine, salts, blue pills, ipecacuanha, squills, syrups of poppies, dandelion root, gentian, gensing, calomel, sarsaparilla, Peruvian bark, and a multitude of others. 
               The process of packing this false bottom alone occupied five or six hours. Jonas was diligent at the task, and earned several kind words from the Jews, who, to say the truth, were not bad-tempered. The old man, in explanation for the singularity of his wagon's construction, condescended to explain that the roads were so dreadfully bad that all this trouble was entailed on them to save the strain on the horses, which would be greater, he said, if the weight was further from the ground. 
               Jonas stole away at night from his trundle bed in the loft, for that was the lodging his new master assigned him, and found a few moments to acquaint the police with the contents of the wagon and its peculiar construction. 
               "Did you learn where it was going?" asked the officer, "for that's the thing we want to know." 
               "Well, I asked the old man," said Jonas, "but he frowned, and said, 'Boy, ask no questions about other folks' business, and then you may get on, but never if you meddle in what concerns you not.'" 
               "Oh, that was his dodge, was it? Well, young man, here's a bit o' chalk. When you start in the morning, if you go to Knoxville, make two white scores on the stable door, and, if you go any other road, make one. But you'll see it'll be to Knoxville. Hows'ever, I'm glad to hear you've seen the false bottom. That'll do. Now go back and get some sleep." 
               The Jews roused Jonas before daybreak, and bade him hitch to and get ready to start; and he thought, while they were having breakfast, he might surely ask which road he was to drive; but a dark frown came over the old man, who bid him remember what was told him yesterday, adding, "Now mark me, young 'un, I mustn't have to say this any more, or I give you the sack!" 
               Jonas, however, was not quite done for, and he determined to leave his mark whether the old Jews would tell him or not. But, being in entire ignorance, he left the yard with a kind of dogged, careless air, letting the old man pat the team on the track, when, for a few yards, he accompanied the wagon, till he saw which way the old man set the horses' heads, and then, hastily exclaiming, "Oh, dear, I've left my knife behind!" he ran off, saying he would overtake them, in half a minute. 
               The two chalk marks being now made, he hastened to catch the team, and went on at the horses' heads, the Jew and his sons having got into the wagon to ride. 
               Nothing happened for some few miles; but at length they came to where a by-road turned off, and the old man called out to Jonas to put the team into the by-road, as he had a call to make down that lane. 
               Jonas obeyed, and the horses ran the wagon, not without a good, stiff jerk, into the heavy ruts of what was evidently a very poor specimen of the class called "dirt roads." 
               At the risk of what school-boys call "a pinch for stale news," we will venture a sentence of digression for the benefit of unfledged city readers who may not have explored either the beauties or the nuisances of the open country. We are all well aware that all farmers and farmers' friends know what a "dirt road" is, but none except those who have seen it, under the stress of rain, and wind, and storm, can have the smallest notion of the dire misery of a "dirt road." 
               Reader, do you remember the "Pilgrim's Progress," and the condition of Christian and Pliable when daubed by mud of the Slough of Despond? If you do remember, multiply their miseries by the highest figure ill mental arithmetic you can do without a slate, and then, when that is done, put a decimal cypher at the end, to make it ten times more, and the result will give you a proximate idea of what our gallant boys endure every week in this dreadful war, when, toiling with fifty or sixty pounds of baggage, either in their kit or over their shoulders, and their feet plunging, every second, as they march on into a compound of gluey mud and water that, every now and then, sucks them down into some hidden quicksand, or, perhaps, tilts them plump down on their hands and knees through some hidden hole or confounded sharp projecting bit of rock. 
               We speak feelingly, having accompanied those brave legions for many miles-we may even say hundreds of miles-over roads of this character, and hope, for the credit of American civilization, that "dirt roads" may, ere long, take their place among the past-among the catacombs of all buried abominations. 
                
               But, as Jonas thought the track of the wagon might be lost through this departure of his master from the main road, he tripped nimbly back and made two big chalk marks on a rail where the path turned off, and then overtook his beasts. 
               "What's that you did, you young scamp?" asked Phineas, the younger Jew. 
               "I thought I might want to know the spot again," said Jonas, "if I had to come alone. I'm kinder stupid at remembering the way, so mebbe I thought this would help me." 
               "Never make chalks again, young 'un, while you serve me," said the old man. "I don't allow it." And, not caring to answer, Jonas hung down his head and began whistling. 
               "Dunno what to think 'bout this boy," said the old man. "What dost thou take him for, my son?" 
               "For a doom, stupid lout, father, but handy in his way. Just the sort of a chap for us." 
               "Can't say, Phineas. God grant he be so. But I'm guessing he's a cute 'un. I don't like them chalks." 
               "Why wot on 'em, father? They can't hurt us a cent!" 
               "Not if they're meant for a finger-post to show our track? Well, we shall have help soon!" 
               Phineas looked anxious, and did not reply. Presently they came in sight of a farm house, which was the first object and, as it seemed, the only one to which the dirt road led. 
               And now as they approached the house, a rough-looking man came out, and opening the gate, said-"Come in, old Mosey, and we'll see what can be done to keep your precious load of all the good things of Egypt safe from the Philistines' hands." 
               "Ah, Captain Morsham, what treasures can a poor Jew have to attract robbers? I've got, it is true, a few barrels of flour, and a few hams and shoulders, and a flitch or two. But nothing worth troubling you for a guard." 
               "Oh, very good, old Joshua! Then if some of Uncle Sam's chaps make prize of it, they won't break you. But a bird flew this way who spoke of silks and satins and jewels and drugs, worth their weight in gold. So I've got a few of our boys here to see you safely through if you'll pay for their time-any thing in reason. However, a poor carrier is safe where a rich one isn't." 
               "There won't any one go to hurt a poor Jew, I think, captain. And beyond a dollar a-piece or so, I don't think I can venture to pay for an escort. Perhaps I might find that." 
               "Add as much whiskey as my boys may want to drink, and I guess they'll see you safe to Knoxville. And come, old cone, none o' your Hebrew fibs: we'all know what you are taking; it's not a bit o' use throwing dust at us." 
               "So be it, captain; be it as you will. But you have heard lies. How be it, I will give the whiskey." And then the whole party sat down for a rest, it being fully noon and the horses tired. 
               Jonas had sat in a corner while this colloquy went on, and felt sure there would be a spree before they got to Knoxville, or the rebels would not be volunteering their services so. 
               It was towards night that the old Jew gave orders to hitch up. When Jonas obeyed, haying profited by the refreshment and the rest, his beasts also were in as good condition as when they left home in the early morning. 
               The boys who sat down with the two Jews and their rebel host were rather rough specimens of the elite of Southern gentry. However, to hear them talk of the "low Northern trash," that were then defiling the rich Southern soil, and the way they would soon be swept away with the besom of destruction, one would have thought them the very top-sawyers of all creation, and nobody among the lick-spittle, sneaking Yankees, fit to wipe their shoes. 
               In fact, so outrageous were the terms in which they measured (over the whiskey) the difference between the Union men and themselves, that Jonas, in his corner at the bottom of the table, could not repress a smile, but happily they thought him too mean to notice. 
               And when the beasts were all ready, and the well-fed rebels ranged themselves in loose order, covering both the rear and van of the smuggling traders, Jonas found that there was no intention of returning to the main road, but they meant to pursue the way across the wildest recesses of the country, hoping thus to baffle the vigilance of the police. 
               Jonas was now more glad than ever that he had made the big chalk-mark where they left the road, as the turnpike road was then in such good condition that no particular trace could be seen by wheel-ruts, as might in wet or snow. 
               So he drove on with no further comments from his suspicious masters, and having 110 further need again to make any further demonstrations, he jogged along like any stupid cotter's-boy, crying, "haw and gee," as though he knew no other words. 
               Dark came on, and the march continued all the same as if it was day, but the Jews spoke not. The ground became quite rough to travel on, and Jonas could hardly see the horses' heads. He had discovered however, that they were close to the bank of a creek, sometimes rather farther from it-sometimes not above a yard or two. 
               About ten at night, one of their escort rode up and whispered to the Jews. What he said was of some terrible import, for the old man cried out, "God of Jacob! what will become of us?" 
               Jonas knew they must be pursued, and as he did not see in what way he could precipitate the action of the piece more conclusively, he, made up his mind to upset the wagon, in the creek, which would infallibly give the pursuers time to come up. 
               No sooner thought of than done. Watching till one more of those sudden belts of rising ground came, which had been trying the sinews of his legs ever since it grew dark, by making his feet fall suddenly, he scarce knew were; he got one wheel as high up on this little mound as he could, taking care that the other should be so close to the bank that the team must needs tilt over into the water. 
               A loud crash announced the success of his scheme, and the curses of the Jews and the rebel escort were heaped on his head in dire confusion. The old man indeed was so irritated that he gave Jonas a heavy thwack over the shoulders, which the boy instantly returned by a blinding cut over the eyes from the cowhide-whip in his hand. 
               Benjamin and Phineas both swore, as if all hell were let loose; but taking advantage of the darkness, Jonas slipped off and left them to their work, when, as soon as he considered himself at a safe distance, he pulled a rocket from his smock, and proceeded to set it alight; in fact, it was the signal agreed on, should he find a night-chase, to come on. The rocket sped its flight into the air, and fell with a brilliant group of red, shooting-stars. 
               "Curse that carter-boy," said Captain Morsham to the old Jew. "That's a signal to them police chaps in pursuit-I'll swear it's nothing else." 
               "Oh, my cursed folly!" said the Jew. "He telegraphed by white chalks when we left the road, and I've no doubt that's how they have tracked us, for no one knows this road but smugglers." 
               "But we know it now, my hearties!" said Colonel Truesdale, who had come up with a good posse of his men to finish up the day's fun. "Come, old Abraham-Father Abraham," (he added, with mocking good nature,) "just lift out that false bottom of yours, and give it with a good grace, and we won't hurt you, but Uncle Sam must have his dues!" 
               However, the prize was too costly to be quietly surrendered, and old Benjamin pulled out his revolver at a venture, presenting it to the nearest member of the colonel's posse, who ducked down, and just escaped. 
               At this shot, a general melee commenced, and the Jews and the rebels fired all their pieces, two or three of whom were badly wounded. The colonel did not feel inclined to kill the smugglers-perhaps he thought he might nab them another day-but he winged them, as duellists say, and their poor right arms dropped powerless by their sides. Jonas, too, not wishing to be idle, had laid two of the smugglers' escort prone on the roadside by the creek, and as the rest of the rebels made their legs serve them, the party of police remained in possession of wagon, smugglers, and the field. 
               Colonel Truesdale was loud in his commendation of the forethought Jonas had shown in making the chalks. He would have kept on along the turnpike, he said, but for that simple circumstance, and the marks being a fac simile of those on the stable door at Nashville, he was at once led to notice the ground, where he could see the wheel-tracks quite plain. 
               The wagon too being found under escort of known rebels, became all the more evidently subject to legal capture, and all its contents were now fair prize, a portion of which would fairly belong to the captors. 
               Such was Jonas's first adventure in his new task of being a match for rebel smugglers. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               MAIDEN DOUBTS AND PONDERINGS-THE OLD WOMAN ON THE HUNT-AN UNLUCKY BREEZE-THE PROVOST MARSHAL. 
               WE know not that it is needful to follow the doings of Jonas while operating in this new field of service. The disguises that from time to time he assumed were in all cases adapted to the end in view. Such was his wonderful skill, and the tact with which he was able to assume any conceivable character, and give a correct, lifelike impersonation of it; that though his fame was spread abroad as a dangerous and artful adversary, even those who were loudest in denouncing the blindness of their neighbors were themselves in turn drawn into the same net, and yet with it all, after some period of prudent disappearance, Jonas would come down upon the smugglers under some new avator, and frustrate their subtlest calculations, drawing thereby quite a pile of prize money into the pocket of Uncle Sam. 
               In this manner the winter wore away, and the fair Proteus once again in female attire, obtained leave of absence for a while, thinking she could see her friends in General Rosecrans's division. 
               Her fame, she found, had gone before her, and made her entrance into the well-remembered camp quite a scene of half military, half social ovation. Colonel Morton of course made himself the principal person to do the honors of the camp, and when retired from the company of his numerous fellow-admirers, he took occasion to ask how the current of our heroine's meditations had run, during her long absence. 
               Dora, for her party scarcely knew how to reply. For some things, she would be well enough content to subside into common feminine duties, but she argued, that in her opinion, the very fact of the enthusiasm with which her services were welcomed, was almost a conclusive reason why they should be still continued. Colonel Morton, on his part, was candid enough to admit the force of this argument, even though it went against himself. And indeed the condition of affairs at that time, shortly after the bloody and prolonged battle of Stone river, was one that scarcely encouraged an unselfish and considerate mind to seek its own personal enjoyment, when thousands of brave countrymen close beside them, either sick or wounded, were at hand to claim all the countless number of good offices that the intervals of actual duty might allow. It was therefore decided by the pair of sedate and sober lovers that another cruise of our heroine should take place before the realization of their own personal wishes. 
               Dora found herself, however, at this new visit, decidedly more interested in the colonel as her future protector, and did not any more talk to him of her broken heart, and ask him if he thought he could put up with such imperfect affections. Perhaps the ladies may blame her for this. We think, however, they have no right to. There is a wonderful efficacy in a career of useful activity to dissipate imaginary sorrows. And in saying "imaginary" sorrows, we do not mean such as are merely the effect of an unrestrained imagination, but those, the actual pressure of which having long passed away, ought to remain, merely as the memory of a thunderstorm, when the sun has come in sight once more, to gladden the face of nature. And as it was known that a grand career would open before the army of the Tennessee, with the, approach of the Spring months, Dora returned to place herself at General Grant's disposal in the approaching campaign on the Mississippi. 
               The wonderful combinations of that glorious campaign can scarcely have faded from the minds of any one. Those laborious explorations of the Yazoo river, with its forest-arched eanopy and ever-doubling and meandering course, where the vessels, running the gauntlet of all the hidden rebel sharpshooters, could never see more than one consort at a time, either fore or aft, because there was no straight bit in the stream logger than two or three boats' lengths, and how five thousand square miles of rebel territory were submerged beneath a watery grave, by cutting the levees at Yazoo Pass and Lake Providence. But in those achievements our heroine bore no share; we merely allude to them, as current events just arrived at maturity when she entered on her new campaign, some scenes of which we are going to record. 
               General Grant, amid the press of the numberless duties devolving on him in his important command, and seeing every day a multitude of fresh faces, each differing from those of the day before, could scarcely be expected to recollect everybody, especially when not in their natural shape. It was the day after the battle of Fort Gibson, when he had defeated the rebels under General Bowen with a loss to them of 1500 men, that a woman attired in a ragged old cloak with bonnet and petticoats in corresponding condition hobbled up to his tent, the sentries having reluctantly passed her through the lines, as she said she particularly wished to speak to him. 
               "What have you to say, good woman?" he asked, not in particularly good temper, for he did not like the look of his visitor. 
               "I'm come to take service with you again," croaked out the figure, rather mournfully. 
               "You must be mad, woman. I never saw you, still less had you in my service." 
               "You've a short memory, general, then," said Dora, in her proper voice. "Don't you remember the steamboat prize money, and the Nashville smuggling team?" 
               "Miss Dora, as I live!" he said, taking her by the hand. "Well, now, it's only last night I lay awake and were wishing you were in camp for an errand I want done." 
               "Talk of the wolf, and you see his tail," said Dora, laughing. "I've been in the hospitals about Murfreesboro', general, but I'm come out on the war-path now, so let me know what you want done." 
               "Well, now, that old woman's dress is just the thing, because the rebels will hardly care to look closely into it, and I want a closer peep of their camp and general belongings than what men scouts can give me. If you're not afraid to venture into their camp, and look about you, and learn what you can, I shall be very glad of it. Especially I want to know what force Pemberton is likely to bring against me, and what other bodies I may have to contend with." 
               "Very good, general. I guess I can soon learn. Any other instructions?" 
               "Oh, no such violent hurry! You need not think of going to-day. I shall consider a little further, now I've got you at hand for a scout. Meanwhile, do you make yourself comfortable, and think whether you can manage to walk pretty far, because an old woman like you," he said, laughing, "has no business with a horse." 
               Dora, upon this hint, retired from the general's head-quarters to resume the acquaintance of her numerous old military comrades, and they were considerably disappointed that no fresh incidents of romantic peril had come in her way since they parted, which they counted, in fact, from the previous knowledge of her, to be almost a necessary part of her nature. 
               But Dora reminded them that even the strongest webs of elastic banding are apt to lose their virtue, if always, on the strain, and explained that, in the army of the Cumberland, with so many poor fellows wounded at Stone river, she had not been idle, though removed from outer adventure. 
               Plenty volunteered the remark, that they would rather like a bad battle-wound, if it brought them under her care as a nurse, and one burly major, with stout limbs and iron-gray beard, "guessed Miss Dora had got a sweetheart down among the boys there, or she'd never have kept in her hole like a frozen squirrel all those months." 
               "You're not far from it, major," she answered, "only my future husband, thank God, is not wounded; but we don't either of us think it quite the time to marry." 
               Dora thought it better to let thus much be known as to her prospects-to save the needless overtures from officers in camp; and, in the course of two or three days, her instructions were made out, written at first, but to be destroyed when fairly committed to memory. 
               In the new service that she was just commencing, Dora had concluded to remain in the character of an old woman, and her ostensible errand, in seeking the rebel camp, will shortly appear to the reader. 
               She took her way accordingly on foot; her excellent constitution made this manner of travelling not only not wearisome, but actually a constant enjoyment. 
               For on all sides round her, nature, the grand restorer and renewer of all things, was at her beneficent work! Trees, which had been blackened and scorched, but not killed, by the bivouac-fires of the last year's campaign, were now bursting into fresh and delicate beauty; and the luxuriant creepers that in the summer would be making graceful and many-shaped festoons, to fill up the interstices between the larger trees, were now throwing out their flexible tendrils, with that delicate tinting which no pen can do full justice to. 
               Heedless of the rough profanation to which God's blessed and pure air had lately been subjected, and shortly would be again, countless legions of birds carolled and chirped on every bough; while brilliant-colored butterflies, like incarnate sparks of prismatic sunshine, flitted perpetually across her path, and the cheerful babble of some tiny rivulet gave an undertone, as it were, to nature's chorus,-that contrasted beautifully with the deafening roar of cannon, and the heart-rending cries of the wounded when being taken in the jolting ambulance from the horrors of the battle-field! 
               Being furnished with a rebel pass from the provost-marshal under General Joseph Johnstone, Dora had no difficulty in entering the rebel lines; for being burdened with nothing but a very small bundle, her apparent ugliness and poverty made her free from troublesome notice, or indeed any other annoyance. She, therefore, roamed at will from one division to another, her constant tale being that for so many long months she had obtained no tidings of her only, son, who she said was a soldier in the Confederate army, and she had come from her distant home in upper Missouri to see if she could obtain tidings of him. 
               Dora always took care to learn, before giving vent to her story, from what locality the troops were drawn to whom she was broaching it; because, if by any ill-luck, she came on a company from the neighborhood given, detection would speedily follow, and probably danger to herself close on its heels. 
               But with her native woman's art, and acquired experience in fooling people, she got along first-rate, and learned not only a vast heap of camp rumors, some true and others not, but what was of much more importance, the real numbers and condition of the rebel forces, the object in fact for which she had ventured into their camp. 
               One day, however, there was a strong wind blowing, and Dora, whose costume had now been so long upon her that she had ceased to watch it with close attention, was conversing with an orderly-sergeant who was telling her the numbers his regiment had lost in the recent battle at Port Gibson, when suddenly a gust of wind blew away her bonnet, and her thick, glossy hair (which had grown almost as long as ever) strayed loose about her forehead in the most picturesque confusion. 
               "Hullo, missus!" said the sergeant, on a sudden; "hullo, marm! you've got to come along with me; you've been sailing under false colors!" 
               And instantly, sanctioned by the support of all the men hanging about, he took the discovered impostor to the office of the provost-marshal. 
               But in the meantime Dora's presence of mind did not desert her; and on reflection it appeared to her that the danger was not so very great-at any rate she prepared what to her ideas seemed a suitable wad probable defence. 
               The provost-marshal of course, prejudiced by the discovery of our heroine's false impersonation, received her with ominous frown and stern, peremptory address: 
                
               "Pray, prisoner," he said, "what have yon to allege in your defence why you should not be dealt with as a detected spy, which no one in their senses can doubt that you are?" 
               "Oh, sir," said our heroine, with a due mixture of maiden shame and genuine female nervousness, "don't be hard upon a poor, innocent country-girl! Spy, indeed! Why anybody can see I've not the wits for a spy. And though I did come dressed up like an old woman, and said I wanted my son, I do want to find my young man here, or to learn what's become of him; for God knows I've heard nothing of him these long, weary months. Was it fit, do you think yourself, captain (guess you've got girls of your own-ye look old enough for it)-was it fit for a young girl to come into camp in her own dress? Troth, captain, I'd sooner have kept away altogether, but still I was dying to know what had become of poor Alick, my joe!" 
               "What regiment did your young man belong to?" said the provost-marshal, rather shaken by Dora's glib flow of language. 
               "Can't say, your honor," she answered. "The last letter we had at home said he was put into a new regiment; the old one being thinned down, there wern't enough left to answer the roll-call." 
               "What was his old regiment, girl? You must remember that. Now mark me: we soldiers are rough customers: if folks are true, we are all right to them; but if they try to hoodwink us, why, miss, just look out for squalls." 
               Dora sat down and cried: "Oh, what can a poor girl do! Let me go, sir, if I've done wrong coming here, and I'll never come again, I didn't know a poor girl could get in a scrape for looking after her sweetheart. Laws, captain, he might be wounded!" 
               "Can you nurse the wounded?" said the provost-marshal. "Because if you can, you shall. You are a prisoner, subject to be hung; if proved to be a d---d Lincoln spy, which I'm sadly afraid you are. We will inquire for your sweetheart; but if you try to escape before leave is given, the sentry will shoot you like a dog. There! go to the hospital." 
               Dora accordingly was led away, the provost-marshal having written down the name she gave, also the place she said he came from. The stern officer pinned her down to these two particulars; and from the evident reluctance with which she gave them, he became convinced in his own mind that the whole thing was a hoax. 
               However, our heroine knew that at the very least it would take weeks to detect the facts of her innocent imposture, and in the meantime the chapter of accidents was always open, and besides she might gain good-will in the tasks assigned to her. After all, the rebels were fellow-creatures and fellow-Christians, and, apart from their political transgressions, many of them as good-hearted fellows as any one need wish to see. So with inward thanksgivings that matters were no worse, Dora contentedly followed the sergeant, who marched her off as a prisoner of war to do duty at the bedsides of the wounded, in which post she remained for some weeks, no opportunity for escape presenting itself. 
               During this time events were occurring by which, even with the distorted rebel versions of them, she was certain the Union armies were making gigantic progress. No day passed but what numerous additions of wounded men were made to the long lists under hospital treatment. The demands on Dora's time and attention were continually on the increase; and severe as she felt the strain on her constitution to be, the strong instincts of humanity forbade her to turn away from her post, or even claim that fair amount of rest which was necessary to the preservation of her health. 
               General Grant had already occupied Jackson, and General Pemberton, having temporarily withdrawn the garrison from Vicksburg, had met the Union forces at Baker's creek, and again the next day at Big Black river bridge. Some accidental visit to a brother officer, badly wounded at one of these engagements, had brought the provost-marshal into the hospital wards, and glancing his eyes round, as though to take in the whole panorama of sickness and suffering, his eye by-and-by lighted upon Dora, whom he had not seen for so long a time that he had almost forgotten her. 
               "Ah, Miss Spy! So you're there still, I see. Ah, lucky for you I've had no time for a court-martial, for I did look through the Missouri regiment lists, and found out it was all a hum about your sweetheart-so maybe you'll have to swing for it yet! However, keep on as you are-there's none too many wounded here. We won't hang you just yet!" 
               The head surgeon at once came up and bore willing testimony to Dora's valuable aid. The provost-marshal smiled, and shook his head. 
               "Ah, Miss," he said, shaking his fist playfully in Dora's face as he went away; "don't be surprised if we haul you up some day yet!" with which words of ominous import, he turned on his heel and left her. 
               For her own part, Dora's courage did not for a moment quail under the half jocular, half serious threat of the provost-marshal. But she began to ask herself whether she had not now stayed long enough in the rebel camp, and whether it was not time, even at the risk of a little personal danger, to move away to her own proper post. To effect this end, after turning it over in her mind, the main difficulty was to get the password, to move safely beyond the camp bounds, and in case of emergency to be prepared with the means to make a dash for liberty. To one of our heroine's ready presence of mind, a resolution once matured in her inner counsels was already almost carried out, thus realizing the truth of the proverb, "A thing begun is half done." In further illustration of which we will add, that once, in reference to a weaving machine, in fact the most complex and elaborate kind of a loom yet known in manufactures, we heard the inventor say, "I knew, as soon as the drawings were fully completed according to my ideas, the whole thing was as good as done," which the event afterwards proved. 
               Under the plea of getting a little fresh air, which was obviously a fair demand on her part, Dora made her way into the camp, and passed within hail of the orderly as he was giving the word for the night, and not appearing to notice it, she soon returned to her post, to be ready for the next move. 
               Evening came at last, and during the day Dora managed to carry to her little cupboard, one by one, without remark, the regimental clothes of a wounded soldier then under her care, of about her own height. Waiting till the camp was still, and every thing as hushed as it would be through the night, she dressed herself in the purloined suit of regimentals, and leaving the hospital made for the stables of the camp. Our heroine had at first concluded to attempt her escape on foot, because in that more unconspicuous mode of travelling she would attract considerably less attention, but on second thought she determined to, do it on horseback, even though it involved, on several grounds, additional risk. 
               As the reader has seen on several former occasions, when Dora had made up her mind the chances of her decision being frustrated were very slight indeed. Her old experiences and early teaching had made her familiar with the art of counterfeiting sounds, and it was quite as easy to her to speak in a man's voice as in a woman's, whenever occasion required. Arrived at the cavalry barracks she kept as much in the shade as she could, as it was never any part of her tactics to invite unnecessary risks. Her noiseless step, tuned to that most useful accomplishment by her frequent hospital practice, enabled her to elude the observation of the sentry as he paced his beat up and down in the open space, and quietly saddling a horse she led him out from the rough shed serving for a stable, and mounted astride on his back. 
               "Positively," said Dora to herself, "I can't see why women shouldn't ride astride the same as men do I True, I'm a man just now-but if is comes to a scratch and a scramble a side-saddle don't give half the chance to keep one's seat! However, here goes!" and she put her steed to a moderate trot, so as, if possible, to stop being questioned. 
               But, she had preceded very little way towards the camp gate, where she knew would be the greatest point of danger, when a sentry called out: 
               "Halt there, and give the word." 
               "Fredericksburg," answered Dora instantly, and spurred her horse to quicker action. 
               "Stop a bit, you fellow!" cried the sentry. "Where are you going?" 
               But Dora was already fifty yards off, because, as she gave the word right, he deliberated for a moment or two whether he had any need to inquire more. 
               Seeing that she was beyond his beat, he gave in, saying, "Guess they'll stop him at the gate, anyhow." 
               This augury was in fact realized, for another minute had brought our heroine to that spot, where she knew the worst pinch of the danger lay. 
               "Halt!" cried the sentry on guard, "and say where you are going to at this time of night." 
               "The word is 'Fredericksburg,'" answered Dora. "The provost-marshal told me that was all I should want to pass out by." 
               "By golly, mate, then he told you a damned lie. You ain't going out that way!" 
               "But I am this," replied our heroine; "I'm going to obey orders, and you shan't stop me." 
               "Won't I, by golly, though!" cried the sentry, raising his piece. 
               "Fire, if you dare!" answered Dora, pulling out a revolver, which she held within four yards of his face. 
               "Wait while I report," said the sentry. "Mebbe it's all right. Here, Dick," he called out to his comrade, "go and call the orderly-sergeant." 
               "I'm not going to wait here all night!" said Dora, who now saw that she had only one to deal with, and knew that this was the best chance she would have. 
               So saying, she put her horse into speed, and one bullet whizzed within an inch of her head; and fearing the other ball from the loaded rifle might come a little nearer, she turned round in her saddle, and wounded the right-arm of her pursuer, so that his musket fell to the ground. 
               The noise of the scuffle had now aroused many in pursuit, but Dora had got by that time a tolerable start; however she quickly perceived that half a score of troopers were in hot pursuit of her, and she was glad she was mounted so as to make a dash for it. 
                
               The chase lasted a long distance, and the crashing of the pebbles under the iron heels of the horses broke wildly on the dead solitude of night; but Dora being a lighter weight, and her horse fortunately a good one, she kept gaining on her pursuers, and at length reached a piece of the road so dark with trees that she felt sure they would never find her. 
               By that good luck which had so often attended our heroine in previous dangers, this piece of dark, woody road lasted, above a mile, Suddenly Dora's practised ears caught the cessation of that clanking chorus of flint against iron which had been going on all the chase. 
               "Thank God, they have given it up!" she said. "This dark wood poses them," and in her turn she pulled up her horse. 
               Listening to make sure the case was as it appeared, she became satisfied that present danger was over; notwithstanding, she determined in case of further pursuit to put all the ground she could between herself and the rebel camp. 
               As her horse was, evidently distressed by the hard gallop of so many miles; she watched for the first good resting-place where he could get grass and water; and giving him a couple of hours to recruit, she calculated that it would still be quite possible to reach the lines round Vicksburg before break of day. 
               The event proved that she was not mistaken. The stars were still visible in the sky, but growing paler under the ruddy streaks from the, east, when our heroine was summoned to halt by a voice that she was glad to obey; and the pickets of the Union army passed on the rider in rebel uniform to the head-quarters of the general commanding. 
               Dora knew that she was safe among friendly troops so she left her concealment and went and joined the regiment. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               A PEEP AT THE CORE OP DIXIE-PEDDLING AMONG THE DARKIES- GUERILLAS-THE DESERTED PIGSTYE. 
               THE intelligence which Dora had procured, while in the heart of the rebel camp, though arriving rather late in the day, was still valuable to the general in command. He knew with tolerable precision the amount of losses the rebels had sustained in the various defeats which had just been inflicted, and was thus able to calculate quite as nearly as was necessary the forces that Pemberton still retained wherewith with to defend Vicksburg. So Dora remained in camp, watching a phase of military operations as yet wholly new to her. The activity of the Union troops perfectly amazed her. Night after night, when most secure, against the sallies of the rebel garrison, or the projectiles which their artillery corps threw with great effect and precision, new galleries were sprung to undermine the outworks of the rebel fortifications, which it was intended to storm when a sufficient breach should have been made. 
               The rebels on their part were active too. Constantly, as the sun rose, some fresh evidence of their dauntless determination to sell the place and their lives as dearly as possible forced itself on the reluctant admiration of the Union officers-thus making them continually fresh, work to do-the rebel city seeming rather to grow stronger, if any thing, than when the laborious siege was commenced. 
               But we are not writing the record of that celebrated siege, the most remarkable, save that of Charleston, which has ever been witnessed on this continent; and as our heroine was only for a short time a spectator of it, there is the less need to dwell on it, though as a landmark in her remarkable career, we are bound of necessity to allude to it. 
               The whole region of that southwestern territory was now swarming with troops. On both sides there seemed a conviction that vast results hung on the issue of that present strife. The rebel troops under General Price, whose forces had for some time been so diminished by desertion and occasional defeats, were now again gathered in force, and had crossed the Arkansas river. Evidently should the siege before Vicksburg have to be raised, the Union forces might find themselves hemmed in, either by regular troops or by guerillas combined. The contingency was never imminent; but; with prescient care, General Grant wished to know in time the extent of the danger from this new quarter. He thought he would again avail himself of Dora's enterprise and abilities, as she somehow seemed to bear a charmed kind of life; and though frequently in imminent peril, she, nevertheless, managed to keep clear of actual penalty. 
               Finding her still as ever willing to start once more on her adventurous path, he explained the particulars on which he desired information, and left our heroine, as on former occasions, to her own devices as to the role she would make choice of to veil her design. In this, as she was instinctively fond of assuming fresh characters, she determined to travel as a pedlar, with a small but light pack of nothing but combs and cutlery, with a little medecine. The materials for this disguise were ready at hand, and by the experience she had had she was perfectly certain she could sustain it without inconsistency. The country through which she was intending to pass was different from any before. More purely a slave-labor region than she had yet visited, It was interesting to watch the process of cotton planting, then in pretty full operation. Familiar with the constant outcry of distress and high prices arising from the scarcity of the great commercial necessity, Dora was amazed to find, in the retired regions of this Western State, vast stacks and warehouses full to suffocation of the products of the sunny South, but lying as useless as if they existed not-because it was not possible to bring them with safety to market. 
               With the simple-minded negroes, many of whom were quite tolerably flush of those now almost unknown curiosities, the gold and silver coinage once so common in Uncle Sam's dominions, and in payment for her staple medicines, the pedlar was able to drive quite a snug little trade, inquiring at the same time all about the guerillas, of course in the most casual and cursory way. 
               But she was destined soon to come face to face with these rough-and-ready customers, for indeed they were spreading so generally over the country that it was not possible to travel far without coming across one band or other. 
               Dora had been trading a little at some negro huts adjoining a large planter's villa that had evidently at no distant day been the abode of comfort and opulence, but now looked, in the dismal solitude of its closed shutters, as though "the abomination of desolation" had in very deed passed over it; but though the negroes remained, in diminished numbers, hanging on to the home which had once presented such a different appearance, the owner had left it to take a command in the rebel army, and his family had gone away on a visit for an indefinite time. 
               Now it so happened that Captain Judd, of General Price's army, was aware of the existence of this plantation, and knowing that the offices were roomy, and the family from home, he determined to make use of it as a temporary barrack on his present march. 
               Dora, having finished her trade, was quietly moving along, as the guerilla party rode up to the house. Slipping quietly on one side, as though unconcerned in their arrival, she determined to appear in no way interested in the matter; but this was not allowed-in fact our heroine would have been surprised if it had been. 
               "Hullo! young man!" said Captain Judd, with a rough, imperious tone. "Hold on there! Tell us who and what you are, where you've come from, and where you're going to?" 
               "Why, your honor," said the young man, "surely your honor won't be against a poor lad earning a dime or two just to keep from starving? I just peddles a trifle-that's all." 
               "Aye, aye, my fine young cock! Guess I know summat about peddling, and guess there ain't never such things as peddler spies and darned Lincumite vagabonds, as hatches a pretty sight more treason than they picks up dollars or greenbacks! Come, young un! you ain't a-going to sarcumvent an old coon like Captain Judd, of the backwoods, Arkansaw! Tell me where you've come from!" 
               "Why, captain, I've come from way down South-Vicksburg and that way-with my trap sot over my shoulders; but a poor lad like me ain't got no home, and I've just took up this to 'arn my living by, if it's possible." 
               "Where's your pass, my lad? By the 'Tarnal: you've too smooth a Skin to be a peddler. Here, give me that bit o' paper! I ain't a-going to eat it!" 
               But as he took the pass from her unwilling hand, he flirted off the peddler's cap with a jerk from his rough, brown hand, and observing the long, black hair below, he laughed a loud horse-grin, and cried out to his men: 
               "We're in luck, my lads! Here's a girl, and not an ugly one! Peddler, by the Lord! We'll teach her another trade! Eh, lads, won't we?" 
               Dora shrank away with fear, caused by his coarse words and still more sinister tone. There was no pretending to deny the truth of the captain's rough disclosure. On the contrary, the painful agony into which they had already thrown her became each moment more visible in the working of every part of her features. 
               There was not at hand, so far as she at present saw, any mode of escape from these licentious and violent men. The expedient of lulling them to sleep by means of drugged food could not now avail her, as they were evidently too violent to admit of it, even had she been furnished with the drugs, which she was not. Accordingly, as there was nothing in sight to effect her deliverance, she hung her head in silence over her hand, and in bitterness and sorrow meditated what might, by some hopelessly lucky chance, still turn up to deliver her. 
               Never till now had she so forcibly realized that risk, the most dreadful of all things to every right-minded and delicate woman, to which indeed Colonel Morton had very distantly alluded, when he set before her the dangers to which this adventurous mode of life exposed her. It was true that having hitherto been in no pressing fear of this crowning peril to me of her sex and instincts, the colonel's hints had been dismissed with scarce an argument; but now Dora resolved that if it should please Providence for her to escape from these rough and wild men without injury, she would never again run the risk of braving a similar outrage. 
               But while rapidly arriving at this determination (which many of our fair readers will say ought to have been made from the very first), our heroine was turning over all the time for the best possible chance to give these desperadoes the slip. 
               As we said a little before, it was now pretty late in the afternoon; and as to continue her journey was become impossible, the only thing in her power was to withdraw from observation, as the captain bid his men forage round the premises for what food they could pick up, good either for man or beast. 
               Taking up Dora's pack he slung it over his shoulders, and leading his horse loosely by the rein, turned round a farm-building, and was for the moment out of sight. Dora was greatly relieved-the more so when on looking round she saw none of the band, who had turned into the stables, and other offices, to tie up their horses, or the taking them for water to the creek not a hundred yards off. 
               Our heroine knew that however tempting the momentary opportunity to run away, it would be sheer madness to attempt to use it. The place was exposed on every side; there was no natural covert that would screen her retreat; the only chance lay in finding some hole to hide in till night might shroud her escape. Oh, how keen the intellect becomes when a sudden necessity sharpens it! 
               "Nothing," said Dora to herself, "nothing is too homely, or too repulsive, to screen me from a fate worse than death!" 
               So musing, suddenly she gave a thought to the pigstye, not three yards from her. Its legitimate tenants were either gone (like the mistress of the mansion) on a visit to see their friends, or what is more probable, the niggers had caused their untimely exit from this world of sorrow, and converted them into sausages, or flitches, or hams; anyhow, the pigstye was somewhat in the case of Matthew's celebrated auction, song: 
                      
                        "A pistol without a trigger; 
                        A whip, but never a nigger; 
                        Some excellent lots that can't be surpassed, 
                        Not e'en by the rarities sold on the last." 
                     
                  
                
               What might have been the case had there been the odoriferous, regular trough, and the floor littered with dank and festering manure-glorious food for hungry land, but sadly uncongenial for the delicate touch and scent of female beauty-what might have been had the regular tenants been at home, we will not presume to say; but seeing they were not at home, and that the sun had sucked up almost all the taint of ammonia from that once-reeking atmosphere, and that the straw litter, once so disgusting, had now only like rather a strong twang of an exposed smelling-bottle, and that it was warm and dry, and led to a hidden and very low shed underneath which no eye could reach-our heroine, struck with the comparative safety of the spot determined to hide in the pigstye, the roof of which would effectually screen her, and where she thought no mortal man would ever dream of looking for her. 
               No sooner thought than done. By a light step, Dora bounded over the log wall of the pigstye, and in another moment was stretched at her length under the roofed bed within, where she determined to wait till night. 
               She was not a moment too soon. Scarcely had she adjusted the rough litter within so as to give her the least possible annoyance, when the rough voice of Captain Judd was heard just on the spot where ha had left her: 
               "Cuss that boy-peddler girl! Where in the name of thunder is she gone to?" 
               And he chafed and swaggered about, hallooing to his men to know where she was. Of course none of them had seen her-Dora had taken care of that before she chose her asylum. 
               Time went on, and the light faded. Dora had heard sundry questions and cross-examinations by the captain, and all the men agreed she must be on the premises, as they had never lost sight of the points by which along she could have left them. Somewhat at ease by this assurance, the captain said they would have supper and then take the thing in hand, and ferret her out of where she might be, probably in the house, as he had left her standing near it. 
               Dora knew he would keep his word; for every thing he said about her was accompanied by an oath, and he gave them a brutal, but intelligible hint, that they must help him in hunting out the peddler, as he was not the boy to keep venison, where it was a buck or doe, all for his own eating. 
               Dora heard quite enough in her unpoetical, but most seasonable Patmos to see that not a moment was to be lost, when the coast was clear, in effecting her speedy escape. Fortunately, so entire was the conviction the guerilla band entertained that their victim was safe within their power, that they neglected even the ordinary military precaution of setting a watch when they went in to set down to their rough and hearty supper. Their own unsuppressed, but hasty remarks, all partaking the disappointment of their chief at the sudden disappearance of Dora, gave her an abundant clue to the precise instant when the gang -would sit down to supper. Indeed the fumes of meat, as they spread through the cool, evening air, proclaimed the desired intelligence, and warned our heroine that the time was come to run for it-in fact, that it must be now, or never. Carefully and stealthily, poor Dora raised herself from the unsavory, but most welcome hiding-place place, and first listening to satisfy herself that no stray footstep was at hand, she stole from within its low, log-built sides, and made her way to the stable. 
               For Dora, never unemployed, had been as busy as possible making her calculations and fixing on the course to take; and as she lay stretched in that most uncongenial shelter, she made an inner vow that Captain Judd should pay dearly for his grossness as a man, and his utter disregard of all true soldierly feelings; and the way she resolved to serve him out was by coolly annexing his horse, also his arms, if his musket, as was likely should be, was left at his horse's side. For she made no doubt in her own mind that she should be sharply pursued, and it would be impossible on foot to get a sufficiently long start from her enemies. 
               Therefore, no sooner had Dora safely emerged from the pigstye than she quietly lifted the stable-latch, and went up to what appeared the best and freshest horse, which she immediately saddled and led out into the yard. As she expected, a gun lay by its side, and her foot catching at something on the ground, she lifted it up, and found it was a small leathern satchel, in which there were evidently letters, as she c6uld feel them through the side, though, being locked, she could not then do more. 
               Feeling sure that it would contain information, more or less valuable, our heroine speedily mounted her acquired war-horse, and rode away at a canter, carefully keeping on the grass till her horse's hoofs could not be heard. 
               What amount of blasphemous vociferations followed, some two hours after, when the men having washed down their supper with whiskey spread themselves in two or three straggling groups, with, lights in hand, to discover their unhappy prisoner, our readers may imagine for themselves. Dora happily was beyond their reach. Her steps were directed straightway towards the Mississippi, in the neighborhood of whose mighty banks so many of her adventures had been passed, and on the western side of which she vowed she would never again venture, i.e., not into those parts beyond the pale of civilization, order, and law. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               RETURN TO VICKSBURG-FAREWELL VISIT TO THE GENERAL-MORE GREENBACKS-WEDDING-BREAKFAST. 
               READER, the strange career of "Dora of the Cumberland" is drawing near to its close; or, shall we not rather say, her true career is, we may hope, about to open. We often hear it said of some wild-disposed, but energetic, and, on the whole, estimable young man: "Oh! he has sown his wild-oats, now he's going to let the world see what's in him!" Now though nothing that we have had to record of our fair heroine can at all come under the category of "wild oats," we apprehend there are plenty of our fair readers who will be ready to run her down as indelicate, unfeminine, headstrong, and uncontrolled, with many more epithets of similar import, all equally just. 
               As it is the height of ill-manners to dispute the opinions of the fair sex, we will not risk the loss of their favor by so profitless an argument. For our own part, we are content at having (no matter how imperfectly) turned forth to the admiring gaze of all lovers of true heroism the brilliant career of this most remarkable young lady. 
               The chase for liberty and honor on which she entered, when mounted on Captain Judd's horse, as Dora determined within herself to win it handsomely, so she became confirmed in her conclusion to run no such risks again. Making her way to the Great River, so often the companion of her travels when pursuing her wondrous career, she lay to quietly on its banks till a steamer came within hail, on its way down stream to Vicksburg. 
               Once more within the shield of the great outworks of civilized society, she had leisure to realize the narrowness of her recent escape; and while thankful for its substantial benefit, she seemed to shrink into herself with shame as she called to mind her ignoble house of refuge. However, she could keep her own counsel; and surely if she confided the secret to chosen friends, they would applaud the presence of mind which suggested such a forlorn hope. 
                
               Such were her meditations on the voyage down-river towards Vicksburg, which she safely reached in regular course, and presented herself to General Grant, bearing in her hand the leathern satchel of Captain Judd, which she had been honorable enough to keep unopened. 
               The general listened attentively to her various other intelligence, which, though not written down, was preserved in clear order on the methodical shelves of our heroine's well-regulated brain. On breaking open the bag, however, the general's eye glistened, and he said: 
               "This is indeed a prize. Here are a whole budget of letters of the highest military importance; and stay-why here's a small packet I hadn't seen before." 
               Opening the packet, several rolls of greenbacks tumbled down; and when he saw there was nothing else, he said: 
               "These are fairly yours. Take them, Miss Dora, and much good may they do you!" 
               The amount proved to be over a thousand dollars. 
               Feeling herself in want of rest after the fatigue and excitement of her last cruise, Dora once more entered the camp-hospitals, but not for harder duty than she felt herself able to give. 
               When fairly in a condition to travel, she sought an interview with the general-not as before, with the view of seeking new service, but of bidding her own branch of it farewell The general listened in silence, and was evidently grieved at the loss; but still, with true soldierly frankness, he could not find a single word of reproof. On the contrary, thinking something rather unusual must have turned up, he drew his fair guest on by such easy steps, that she did not stop till the whole history of her last campaign was fairly in his possession. When she had done, he said: 
               "God bless you, my dear lady! You do quite right to give over. I only wonder amidst all this heap of dangers you have managed to escape so triumphantly. As I told you once before, I never heard of any one like you, except Pauline of the Potomac, and in truth I believe you beat her too." 
               "Well, general," answered Dora, laughing, "we ought to grow more clever as we grow older. I was younger, then. No wonder, if I have made a little progress." 
                
               Reader, pardon the digression whilst I inform you that my attention has just been called to a small pamphlet, which purports to be a companion to my first work: I will here state that Messrs. BARCLAY & Co. are the only publishers of my works. 
               "Heavens and earth!" cried the general, "can it be that you are the same? Why it was said that brave young lady died of brain fever." 
               "I was very near it, general, after poor Adams was killed in battle; in fact, I scarcely know how those terrible months of my life passed; but God kept me through them, and when physically competent, I determined to renew toy career." 
               "And pray, whither are you bound now, if I may ask?" asked the general; "for I assure you I shall be sorry to lose sight of you." 
               "To the army of the Cumberland, general, where possibly we may meet again." 
               Waiting till a suitable convoy was at hand, Dora at last took leave of all her friends in the southwestern army, and rejoined General Rosecrans' camp; where Colonel Morton was still unwounded, and anxious to welcome her back. 
               Her arrival, and the long list of adventures with which she had it in her power to hold the officers in the mess spell-bound, made quite an era in camp, and was the signal for several pleasant social festivities. Colonel Morton, however, did not consider them complete before Dora had consented to take her part at a wedding-breakfast, which he was determined should be something firstrate in its way. 
               Having on several suitable occasions extracted from Dora's blushing lips the varied experiences through which she had passed, the colonel put himself one fine morning into the attitude of a counsel, and ran through, in successive and accumulated series, the different perils through which she had run, and then pressed her candidly to say whether it was fit for her to run the risk of any more. 
               As Dora had in her own mind gone through the same process, the colonel had the pleasure to think that he had completed the chain of reasoning; for with the genuine instincts of her sex, Dora had not chosen to volunteer the confession that she left the camp at Vicksburg on purpose to carry out the colonel's wishes. 
               And thus, as we hinted before, the wedding-breakfast was the speedy conclusion of these oft-repeated arguments; and Colonel Morton now boasts the possession of his heroic wife, and the army of the Cumber-land-the sick, the strong, the whole, the wounded-mix up in their cheers, their prayers, and their gratitude, the Siamese-twin titles, which at the breakfast-table waved in banners over the heads of the happy pair: 
                     "PAULINE OF THE POTOMAC,"
                     AND
                     "DORA OF THE CUMBEBLAND."
                  
                
               THE END. 
                
                
               
                  
                      
                        DORA AS A WAGON-BOY PUTS THE JEW SMUGGLERS TO FLIGHT.-Page 96. 
                     
                  
                
             
         
       
   
