
    ----CITATION----
        Elemjay, Louise.. Censoria Lictoria of Facts and Folks .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6380
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Censoria lictoria of facts and folks
             
                  CENSORIA LICTORIA OF FACTS AND FO1LS, FROM THE NOTES AND M1NUTES OF MSS BETSEY TROT. WOOD'S OFFICIAL TOUR UNDER THE FRANK PIERCE DYNASTY. BY LOUISE ELEMJAY, ; AUTHOR   OF LETTERS AND      MISCELLANIES." "An old Roman Censor, or Dictator, had, if memory serves, twenty-four followersd or Lictors, whose duty (in part) it was to apprehend and punish offenders. Now with her pen for her fasces, LouISE ELEMJAY would, we apprehend, serve for a full Lictoria outfit, being equal in power to twice twenty-four chaps with rods in their hands. She holds a facile and caustic pen."--BIFF. EXPBESS. THRD EDITION. REVISED    AND  ENLARGED. NEW YORK: JOHN F. TROW, PRINTER & STEREOTYER, 379 BROADWAY CORNER OF WHrE STKBET. 1859.     ENTERED, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, by E. M. KINGSLEY, FOR THE AUTHOR, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.   TO ONE WHOSE EPISTOARY TALE  AND COMPETilTON, WHOSE MAGNANIMTY RESIGNS A PERSONAL PATRON TO PUBLIC WANT,- WILKINS MCAWBER; WHOSE GRANDISONIAN ELOQUENCE, MORE EVEN THAN HS OWN SUCCESSFUL EMGRATION, BAVE 'TO O   OIa ENTAL HUMANITY. ITS PRESENT CENSOR; 'TDESE, HER OFFCIAL ND ANTE-OlffI AT RECORDS, ABSftACTD, A8 VSUASL, BY M  CON bNTL SECRETAIY, ARE NOW ^Blojrt 3Rtejptttfur I 3Enjftrifije, BY IS ADMRING  D HUMBLE DISCIPILE, TH HONORABLE SECRETARY, AroarE   .    r 9 9 f^-   CONTENNTS. PAGE PREAMBILAR PERORATION ......7  ........................  KENTUCKY.   . .................................. '. . . " WHO'S TO WEAR THE HATS? .     .......  ............  12 REPORT OF A SELF-INSTALLED COMMTTEE. ................. 15 THE- DARx HOUR    ..... ................................. 19 THE ALL-SEEING EYE..................................    20 To MY WILL-O-'WISP DAUGHTER, FANNY FE  RoRN. .. ......... 20 FILIAL... ..   ............ .  . .............. .... 21 AN INVALID'S SOLILOQUY. ............................... 23 To A BwED ................. .. ......           23 "OGIO AND DEFEnENOE ................ .................   24 NEW LORDS, NEW LAWS ................................ 26 DID  YOU  EVER? ...................... .................. 26 THE ENGLISH IS A STRONG LANGUAGE. ...................   27 "W HY- DON'T THE STATE OF MARYAND] PUT HM (RIev. r. S.) IN  PETTICOATS? .............. ..................... 81 ALABAMA  .  ... . . .....................        82 WOMANiS SPHERE ......................................   33 CHARLESTON .............................  .   . - .. . . 44 OLEVER AUITHORESS ................................ 45 NIUMBER ONE AND NUMBER TWO    ........................ 47 PnOMSING PATRON.   .............................    59 "AY SERMON TO PRIEST AND PRELATE ...   ................... 59 CHARITY. .............................           61 NEW BROOM .......................... ................. 62 WHAT A BOOK MGHT BE GOOD FOR....................... 67 OAP FOR HEADS THAT FIT .. . ...........,. .., 8 ......... 68     6        CONTENTS. PUFFS AND PUFFERS ................................... 66 M1RS. GRUNDY AND EASTERN EDITOR TO SOUTHERN AUTHOR.. 71 SOUTHERN AUTHOR TO MRS. GRUNDY ...................... 71  VALENTINE FOR THE LOUISVILLE JO URNAL ................... " PROXY LECTURE   ....................................... 79 NOMNALS ONLY                 ......80 "GHT FROM ON HGH .......................         82 ONLY A SLIGHT DIFFERENCE      ................... ......... 83 ANY THNG FOR A TEXT ................................ 85 GERTRUDE. ...........................................   98 JURISPRUDENCE EXTRA-JUDIOIAL   .....................   94 A VOIoE FOR ALABAMA ................            96 CALIGRAPHOTYE ................ ...... '.     ...  9 7 SAYING N D Do    I WHEN AND WMERE ....................... 99 ITEMZING ................                 101 THE FUGITIVE RETURNED .....   ............... * ........... 105 SHORTiTHAND NOTES ................       ... *.  . 106 PRETENTIOUS, BUT "SPOTTED,"............          109 THE HALF-BREED'S LECTURE TO PALEFACE YOUNG LADIES... 110 OUT WEST .................... 116 THOSE NUPTIALS ..........................116 IMPROVISIN INSTITUTIONS ...................  ............. 119 THE OLD FUSION COMMTTEE; OR, THAT DUEL. ............ 125 WHO PAYS? ,............'.....               129 SLANTENDIOULARS .....              **............................... 130 THz LATEST OUTRAGE YET. .    '   , ,  . ,     183 DEFINING THEIR POSITIONS .......   ........  .   . 137 UNCROWNED . .,  .......,.,....     .... , *     139 FISHERS  OF M N . ......................................... 141 CHARITY AND INGRATITUDE ................. ............. 142 PARTHAN ARROWS ... ....................          150 No Roos ....-....   .    ..    ................. 158   "OUISE ELEMJAY AND HER, WORKS. THs name, so "widely and favorably known in the South and West," is new here, except to editors and the more dis- tinguished literati, who received copies of her"Letters and Miscellanies," after'the prospect of a revised and enlarged edition was indefinitely postponed. Though no literary rocket, which must be all or nothing in a day, it has much merit, chiefly literary--though peering out here'and there, like lattice from foliage, or apropos to some local or personal reminis- cence, is a story too (for those that can find it), and many an amusing and deeply pathetic incident-but, altogether too much merit we should say, to remain permanently out of print. The Louisville Journal, 2 ne of the best literary authori- ties in the country, indorses its writer as a ' lady of STRONG exuberant thought," and the chary critic of the Boston Post adds, ' of education, genius, keen observation, ease and raci- ness of style, and a versatility of talent zwhich is remarkable." In our opinion she is something more. We have all heard of Woman's rights, but such another example of woman's ener- gies and moral -heroism, the world, we can safely say, has sel- dom seen. Think, poor, pitiful sniveller over hard times, of a feeble, houseless invalid, made penniless and INSOLVENT, and changed in the same evil .hour, from "Ian elegant, beautiful woman,' to a painful spectacle of human infirmity-then of the almost superhuman effort and sacrifices which made the mere fact of publication, " an achievement worthy to be re- corded in letters of gold on her after life." See her again when the exhibit of accounts and suppression of receipts (" a most infamous expedient '), had defeated its second or third re-issue within the year, and with it, that of a still more pro- fitable work then in press.* Shouts of victory ringing on one ear, taunts of failure hissed into the other; the little health, credit, and reputation so hardly earned, again stricken down, by the very hands, too, which had enforced the literary suicide of sales by the author, in the guise of mercy: does she now A"A text-book, and the object, it is believed, of all this singular (if not Finister) practice, though 'sour grapes' now, of course."     NOTICES OF THE WORK. succumb?  No!  "(Disaster may crush, never conquer the brave."   "The day is not lost, while the cry is ADVANCE!"' exclaims this indomitable woman-" if I may not walk up to success as to afriend, I will set my foot on its neck as a con- quered subject!" And our word for it, she will. To a spirit nerved like hers, " there is no such word as fail." Success with her is but a thing of time. Her very energy of itself is genius, and we pity that poor, blind dupe of custom and clique, who cannot see it in such a death grapple with circumstances as hers. Her "Censor-ia Lictor-ia," is a hasty, half-grown series of piquant scraps, thrown into semi-dramatic form. a grotesque mosaic of wit, sentiment, satire, and epigram, per. fectly unique in style, and equal, in our opinion, to any thing of the kind in the language. . . . A little too " crab "-like, perhaps, not to puzzle some readers with its many-sided mean- ings, unless read consecutively, like other travels and histories in narrative form; but they are there, " a perfect embarrass of riches," and well worth the finding . . . LOUISE ELEMJAY is right-she is " bound to 'come in.'    Will some of our eminent publishers stick a pin there, and take the hint, or wait and see that game, so jauntily alluded to in the preface, played out? We quote the above from the Boston Courier; and this lady, whose name is not " unknown to fame," and whose untiring energy and moral heroism under the most adverse circumstances command alike' our sym- pathy and admiration, is now here; establishing beyond cavil that " truth is stranger than fiction." Mrs. Elemjay is a lady in the most acceptable sense of the term, whose merits as a writer are indorsed by the leading literary characters of our country. We ask our citizens to turn out en masse, and listen to a true woman's history. .  With twice the ordinary obstacles to surmount, the rising fame of this talented lady is outstripping the laggard pace of most writers. Her writings evince in domitable energy, satirical wit, brilliant intellect, and unbounded self- reliance. She has too much independence to buy for herself an unmer- ited celebrity, but is destined to enjoy an enviable reputation, and stand high in the temple of genius, by her own exertions and merit . . . Go to see her; go every body, and mothers take your children. It is worth to them the price of a dozen such books, the recollection of THIAT woman, when ready to faint in the great battle of life. Catch us saying 'tard times again.-PalmyraSentinel, Louisiana Herald, and other TVest- rn Papers.   NOTICES OF THE WORK. "The books reached here in the afternoon. Evening came with some interruptions from guests, but to lay them down was impos- sible, though my yet unspectacled eyes remonstrated, and the mid- niglht clock struck ere they were finished. .  . . Breathe the very soul of feeling, poured forth through a pen of more than fem- inine strength. . . . Continue to wish that such a pen, taking themes worthy its power, would, in some future work, so expose folly, and encourage virtue, as to ensure lasting benefit to the sex and country."--Mrs. Sigourney.  . Somebody's mismanagement(or worse) kept "' Letters and 3fiscellanies," chiefly in the South-west, and now we regret to find, prevented the second or third re-print, some eight or ten months after date; but genius is of no section, and the author of those un- pretending " etchings and sketchings of twenty years' wanderings," which men of letters-judging from things, not names-place side by side with IRVING, should never lack the homage due to acknowl- edged talent and sterling worth. Her new work is in some danger, from its size and price, of falling into the wrong hands; but, as her first Lictor says of the second, "nothing too high for her impudence, or too low for her notice." There is evidently fun a-head, and we are glad to see the South and South-west are not to have it all to themselves this time. . . . Precisely one of the books and wri- ters that are every thing to one reader and nothing to another. .  The "Half-breed,"--born North, lives South that means, we con- clude-certainly is up to shooting "ALL ROUND THE TREE," and does great credit to his Red-skin models; but suppose woe must GRrIN and bear it. . .     Like FANNY FERN, was our first impression; but no, this is a diamond of finer cut, and purer water, like Irving, Halleck, and that older and better class of witty poets and satirical humorists, a great deal more we now think. ....     Mean no disparagement to Fanny, but LOUISE ELEMJAY must go up high- er.      . Wish your political tastes were half as good, neighbor. ..... Here is an exquisite sense and quiet humor, of which Fanny has but very little. . . . Reminds one of the subtle woit and sly drollery of Sydney Smith.  . Does gallant fighting, too, on her own hook-, but "PUBLISHED FOR THE AUTHOnR," SORRY TO SEE THAT SLUR ON THE REGULAR PUBLISHERS . . . "OOKS as if THEY Uwere suspected of owning some of the "LIGHT-FIN- GERED HANDS THAT HOLD, OR EXEOUTE," and just as like as not, to put " all authors' brains in their owo pockets." . You see, * OR, as if esprit du corps, or, no good thing out of Mazareat were among their ruling ideas. 9      NOTICES OF THE WORK. Madam, we have "felt of the paper" in both your books.  . One of the best things we have read; acknowledge that it was only at the second or third reading that we began to revel in its brilliant fights of fun and sarcasm. FERNs-ish, we should say, more so than Fanny, and of a higher and more intellectual caste. She, cuts and slashes like a perfect virago. MRS. ELEMJAY holds you by the but- ton, smiles benevolently in your face, dresses you down on one side and up the other, hits you between the eyes, over the head, and on the knuckles; but so pleasantly, with such pure, classic language, really it is so pleasant to take a whipping from such a charming lictor. It takes mind, and thought, and brains, and a thorough knowledge of English, to " do up " the English in the exquisitely polite and sarcastic style of these unapproachable limnings.... Her poetic fancies are charming, rich, and full of life, or noble soul-thoughts, too big for utterance, and too brilliant for suppres- sion. . .. Is, beyond all doubt, a writer of the first order ...  Has all the pith and point of Fanny Fern, without her brusqueness and ANGULARITY. .. . Spicy, brilliant, classic, and at times in- tensely sarcastic. As a writerof Political Odes, she stands with but few rivals.-Cleveland, Toledo, and other Ohio and Illinois Au- thorities. Full of life and piquancy-light reading to the heart's content, and not the heart's hurt either. . . . None of your yellow-cov- ered poison. . . . But to little brains and long ears, we would say, Procul, O Procul, for you are in danger. . . . It is by the author of "Letters and Miscellanies," extensively known . . She wields a vigorous pen, and has achieved a fair reputation in the republic of letters.   If read simultaneously throughout the land, we could fancy the universal smarting of the fashionable world, as their follies, foolishness and frivolities were laid under the rod of the censor. Miss BETSEY TROTWOOD, though a true wo- man, generous, charitable, and humane, is merciless to unbending, pompous pretentiousness, and pursues it with the same relentless- ness that she instigated Janet to follow the donkeys. . . . The account of her official tour is written with a short, keen pen, drip- ping with-remorseless sarcasm. .  A bundle of sarcasm, satire, and pungent wit. . . . Official accounts of the journeyings of that unsparing censor of public morals and manners, Miss BETSEY TROTWOOD, who is now abroad, it seems, with her Lictoria. . .. It is full of sharp sticks," and trans- fixes the follies and conventionalities of the day, on all sides, and at every point. . . . The writer's reputation has been estab- lished by a prior work of undeniable merit.-St. Louis Pres. Her- ald, News, and Intelligencer.   PREAMBILAR PERORATION. SOME inconsiderate people may expect we are going to apologize for making free with Miss Betsey's bureau de police at this particular stage of her career; and some few hardened old fogies, whose organs of veneration for modern manners, morals and tendencies, sadly need developing, might not care a bawhee, if we were to cast some such innuendo reflection on the honor and honesty of Young America's precedent-makers; but thanks to those "emancipated" souls, who have from time to time prac- tically maintained, in the teeth of vulgar prejudice, i'  that all right in matters of interest lies not in the great heads that conceive, but the light-fingered hands that hold, or execute, we know better. EVERY THNG FOR ALL (that can get it), that's our Uncle Sam's motto; but how is said ALL to get it, if any body's got any right to keep any thing back that any !? body else wants? It's clearly a conspiracy against the peace and dignity of all his "FREE AND ENLIGHTENED, for when people want a thing, they want it; trust a A  traitor to put his own papers in apple-pie order, and see I:i     8       PREAMBILAR PERORATION. if he don't slip out, or bum up the very ones you want : and, besides, what good will it do a man going on a trip to-day, if Mr. Dick agd the missing papers should turn- ip to-morrow? Won't he have to be picked up next day, and acquit the engine on the morrow? r Of course he will; and the fact is, he ought to have had these, and more besides, long ago; -and would, too, if our su- perfluous, but well-meaning, hard-working Master Mel' hadn't been intercepted, and somewhat crippled, by the senseless kickings and cavortings of one of those old "beggars on horseback," that never can be easy to ride on their way, without riding down every thing else. However, he'll find the ingenious operation of " biting off his own nose to spite his face," pleasant and profit- able, perhaps, some day; and the unlucky ad inter, with his gallant, but ill-omened name, has rotated now, and we've taken abundant precautions that there's to be "no more of that." Mss BETSEY may chafe at having to buy another new veil, but knows very well we've got all her records in such " a fix," that nobody else ever could decipher ten consecutive words; a simple and effi- cacious plan for "holding on," that we should( take great pleasure in recommending to other secretaries and office-holders, ohly that most of them, it is believed, practise upon it already. True, it has .this little incon- venience, we can't always make it out ourselves; and when one line's contumacious, another has to go down. This rather amalgamates styles; and one of the parties being forestalled in his designs, may take advantage of it, to pretend our version isn't genuine ; but if any body :oubts it, let him come and see if we haven't got his   PREAMBILAR PERORATION.        9 first drafts, and others, too, belonging apparently to 'no particular person or place, but evidently smuggled in by some supernumerary scion, or candidate on trial. It is extremely mortifying, though, that we can't tell all inquiring minds a great deal more about our chief's private' history than she knows herself; she never did like being catechised, you know, but from, all that we can learn, worthy Mr. Micawher, with a disinterest- edness abovefall praise, directed her attention to this continent about the time of the last presidential elec- tion, and persuaded her to be on hand in case " any thing should turn up." Accordingly, we find her here soon after all Bonnetdom went " a-crabbing ;" and it was hoped, the sight of her " respectable " old beaver might arrest its course before it got quite back to Mrs. Eve's fig-leaf; but, unfortunately, a due regard for personal safety, and great horror of having to set her clogs in every predecessor's footsteps, compelled her, not only to muffle it in a double veil of deep-blue mystery, but even forego its " insane tilt," and her own patronymic, in order to escape being torn limb from limb by those peer- less jackals, apes, and other a varmints," always on the look-out forosome foreign lion! The election-much to " glorification " discomfiture -turned up FANK PIERCE; and much to the credit of his sagacity, and Mr. Micawher's forecast, Miss BET- SEY's unique talents were soon put in requisition. Fortunately, the official duties chimed in admirably with her own inclination to see what nobody else goes to see, and knowing that things are to names as nothing to one, she continues up to this very' day passing up and I1     10      PREAMBILAR PERORATION. down (for the most part very quietly), under her ob- scure cognate; catching morals and manners without their holiday hats and "Sabba-dy " cloaks on, " takin notes," and dispensing meed and dreed, " all fearlessly and free," where the first inkling of'her distinguished name would bring whole troops of Philistines, if not Bar- num's show-case, down upon her to " put her through" the grand paces, as they did Samson of old; bury hei "five-fathom deep" in hoodwink' and "flummery,' her especial abominations; and, what is worse, deprive Mrs. Grundy, " and all the rest of mankind," of the great pleasure of knowing what she really does think of the "chief estates" and little-greats in Uncle Sam's and St. Picayune's guessing, gasing, reeling, scrambling, nomadic, stampeding jurisdictions. "OUISE ELEMJAY, Sec. NEW TyOr, Dee. 20th, 1854. -   CENSORIA LICTORIA. KENTUCKY. Kentucky's slopes are green and fair, Kentucky's hearts are warm and brave; And living gems of beautyj rare, Crown crest and cliff and woodland wave; And deep-toned notes of sympathy- W orthy the land of sacred dust- Have cheered a heart whose prayer shall be, God guard thee well, and thou-thy trust! AL IDREoN O SPEINGS, August Ist, 1852. Alas, alas! that blood should dye thy honored shore, Home of the noble, beautiful and true--ASHMOiaE! L. E. 1854,     12       FAMLY PAPERS AND "WHO'S TO WEAR THE HATS?" "WHO?"Why, you, to be sure! Who else do you suppose? None of your figure-heads over my top-gal- lan t rigging, I thank you!"Take your hat?"--not I. The clumsy, ill-conditioned, "shocking bad" old- tar- paulin, keep it yourself! "But just to oblige." And haven't I obliged, I should like to know, till I've taken on more freight from Messrs. Cotton-Bale, Dry-Goods & Co., than I can make good headway under in fair weather-want to see me swamped, don't you?"Make such capital ballast!" Glad to hear it-put it right on-don't know any body that needs it more. "Won't wear the things-hateful, ridiculous!"-" ' Stove-pipe hats,"' eh! Think to get rid of them, don't you? No use. Hats were made to wear-,somebody's got to .wear them, and I shan't. ' Stupid, ugly, ill-contrived, unmanageable things!" Then who but you should wear them?  "Great, awkward, stiff, intolerable bores.!"  Don't see but they fit you very well. "But that's only because, ma'am, you're use' to seeing us together."  Don't often see you without, that's a fact. Wonder if you sleep in them-  expect you can't-dare say that's the very reason now you've fallen out with them. "So ' hard and hot and. heavy '-ruin your beautiful bonnet, ma'am, if they should happen -to fall on it." Can't help it, none of your blarney-want to throw them away, and ruin all the hatters in the world, don't you? Shan't allow it, I tell you!   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       13 "If you would only listen to reason!" Will, when I think there's any chance of hearing it. "Oh, then, you see, madam, such a constant pressure on the region of the brain "-don't fill up the vacancy--of course not -anybody can. see that. C But it might produce torpor, or inflammation." ;"Nought's never in danger"--got on your grand- mother's double-wrapper now--want to poke your head into her nightcap too. Can't have it; distinctions must be kept up, else how should we know which was which? "Oh, just as easy, ma'am"-Just as easy, I don't. doubt, as youcould have told, a year or two ago, what sort of pedal annexations ladies did have, if they had been cruel enough to shove them into pantalets like children or squaws; or break the whalebones and straitlaces of pious, peripatetic old Mrs. Roundhead, and fall back into the costume of her worthy neighbor, good, quiet, stay-at-home Mrs. Knickerbocker ;-eking it out with some sort of mufflers in compliment to the quaint, though rather irreverent sneers, of her classic historian. No, no-don't forget old friends and past kindness--my turn now-bound to keep you (far as in me lies) from making yourself ridiculous; so just make yourself easy with what you have got, and never say CAPS to me agrain. "But they are so much lighter and more comforta- ble?"Can't have them, I tell you, without the bells- don't dream of abandoning you to your own discretion in matters of such vital importance. Yield the head- gear, you'll be after my parasol and bib-and-tucker next.     "      FAMLY PAPERS AND  Fact is, I believe I have seen you with the latter already a (though it might be only the skirt of an infant's robe . you had tucked under your vest when you couldn't get a decent shirt-bosom), and no doubt but you'd distinguish yourself as Mistress of Robes and "Holder of the Gir- /j, die" to a whole harem of ballet-dancers; but do you suppose I'm going to look at any such frights?    ', "Oh, that's all in habit, if you were only once used to them "--But I'm not used to them, and I don't want to be used to them, and I'm not going to be used to them! Haven't I got used to the hats, and do you sup- pose I'm going the trouble all over again?       i  But HATS are so heavy and unhealthy!"      ; What if they are, haven't you got used to them?   , "If you'd only consider "-And who ever knew you to consider any thing but how to curl a moustache, flourish a rattan, and twirl an opera-glass? "Consider," in- deed-set you up to consider! "But if you please, ma'am"-I tell you I don't  please, I don't mean to please, and what's more, I never will please, so shut up with your fool-whim, put on your hat, and go about your business, or sit down and dress this French doll, you exquisite little man-milliner you! Nice articles, you and the likes of you, to missionate women into ' wives and mothers" and can't trust them to mind their own skirts, and won't let alone stove-pip'  ing and abusing your own HATS! cc Janet Donkeys!'   , BETSEY TROTWOOD.      XI t[7   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.         15 REPORT Of the self-installed Committee of THE TEANSCENDENTAL PHLAN- THROPY-EXPORTATION SOCIETY, prospectively convened, to take into consideration the spirit-stirring humanity appeal of Eng- land's Mrs. Jellybys, to the Ladies of America: MOST ELEVATED TRANSCENDENTALS: Your Committee having met, according to appoint- ment, in the Hall of Imagination, resolved itself into the most fitting exponent of super-empyrean benevo- lence, and agreed that our benevolence always intensi- fies most and flourishes best when. its object is in any body's reach but our own, did proceed to resolve as follows : First-That whereas, facts and figures do materially impede the march of Transcendental Progress, it is here- by RESOLVED to disclaim, repudiate, and refuse to recog- nize as belonging to the human species, any specimen of the genus homo who shall decline to aid and abet, to the extent of his ability, in dethroning Statistics, Official Investigations, Parliamentary Reports and Scien- tific Demonstrations from their usurped supremacy over the mind of man; and install in their place the very reliable lucubrations of that profoundly erudite, incon- testably matter-of-fact and pre-eminently veracious class of historians, commonly known as novelists or romancers. Second--That in consideration of the important services rendered by these disinterested though ill-used evangelists of '"Liberty, Fraternity, and Equality," it is RESOLVED to request and advise all publishers to issue     16        FAMLY PAPERS AND their works hereafter, not from " love of filthy lucre," but " free gratis," for the good of the race * and other sympathy-mongers to combine and endow a college of criticism, with'a capital of fifty millions, and authority to award premiums -of from five to fifty thousand per annum, to the more meritorious of these High Priests of Utopian Theology. 'Third-Be it also RESOLVED, That your commander- in-chief for the Home Department be instructed to de- spatch suitable officers into the Interior, with orders to make full and impartial investigation into all the griev- ances, moral and physical, said to exist. not only in the obscure streets, dens, lanes and alleys of the populous cities, but also in the mining, manufacturing, and agri- cultural districts of England, Scotland, and Ireland, and the adjacent Province of France, and suggest the most expeditious mode of redressing the same ; and the Sec- retary for Foreign Affairs authorized and otherwise em- powered to invite the distinguished Charles Dickens and Eugene Sue to lecture our humane and intelligent coun- trymen on the enormities perpetrated, without their privity or concurrence, in the Schools, Factories, Work- houses, Hospitals, garrets and cellars of Paris and Lon- don, and designate such of our eminent citizens as are, in their opinion, the most proper persons to interfere promptly. and efficiently in the premises. Fourth-Being seriously apprehensive that a certain ultramundane region denominated Herschel is miserably deficient in light if not heat, this Committee do most unhesitatingly RESOLVE to petition Congress immediately for a grant of five hundred millions to erect and furnish   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS,        17 Observatories through which all sympathizers can exam- ine critically into the state of that planet and the solar system generally; and- also to charter forthwith THE GRAND CONCENTRIC UNIVERSE GAS COMPANY, with full power' to lay pipes, establish reservoirs, contract for moonsline, levy subscriptions, and appropriate the right of way throughout the entire extent of those ulterior dependencies; Government being allowed to purchase one-half the whole stock in advance, at a premium of ten per cent., on condition that it give the President and Board of Directors carte blanche as to amount, and pledge itself to legalize and sustain all their acts and ordinances ab initio. Fifth-Having observed with extreme pleasure the affectionate interest which enlightened denizens of our Territory of Great Britain evince in all our domestic concerns, this Committee do unanimously RESOLVE that the said Territory is now worthy to be, and hereby is, elevated by brevet to the rank and dignity of a Sove- reign Independent State, with all the rights, privileges, and immunities, present and prospective, appertaining to any other member, oriental or occidental, now, or hereafter to be admitted into this grand confederacy; in ratification whereof this Committee tenders in behalf of society, the right hand of fellowship and fraterniza- tion to the right honorable and well-beloved transatlantic sisters and confreres, so nobly ambitious of competing with us the honor of re-organizing the whole social and material system. And,finally-- Be it resolved that this Committee do now adjourn, repair to the Pantheon of all Abstractions,     18       FAMLY PAPERS AND submit these resolutions, and ask to be discharged from further service. FANCY TOPLOFTICAL, Chairman. The foregoing Resolutions having been duly present- ed and passed by acclamation-.-the House previously resolving itself into Committe of the Whole for their reception-it was further RESOLVED, 1st, That the Com- mittee be discharged with many thanks for its prompt and harmonious action, and very able and lucid exposi- tion of the precise views and objects of this Society; and, 2d, That copies of these and the aforesaid resolu- tions be immediately Itransmitted to agents and coadju- tors in all parts of our jurisdiction ; and the Pulpit and Press, without distinction of' sect or party, be invited and required, under penalty of our displeasure, to give them and the principles therein so luminously embodied, all the sanction, advocacy, and dissemination which their own intrinsic merit, and the exigency of the case, so im- periously demand. By order of the Board, SERAPHNA ST. CERULEAN, Pres. TRANSCENDENTIA RANT, Corresponding Sec. and Amanuensis Extraordinary. Attested Copy. "UNATIUS VISIONNAIRE, Recorder. Capital hit, that of yours, Mr. Dick, getting me the first copy. Keep an eye on their proceedings ; but re-   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        19 member what company you are in, and mind your king Charles' head. "Shouldn't wonder if Mrs. President had the Veiled Prophet's now!" Like enough. BETSEY TROTWOOD. THE DARK HOUR. "I am clean forgotten as a dead man out of mind; I am become like a broken essel." OH, my spirit's chord hath lost its tone, Hope's sparkling sands are running low, And the weary days, the long, the lone, None cares, alas, how soon they go! Yet the Southern heart is warm and true As the seraph sheen on wing of light; And like moon-kiss soft on honey-dew, Just such is its smile of gentle light:. But the stranger's heart is dark with woe, And the minstrel harp is all unstrung; For unheeded falls that music's flow That falters on a stammering tongue. "A SUPERNUMERAIRE.     20       FAMLY PAPERS AND "THE ALL-SEEING EYE." THOU God seest! Man may fail And crush the bruised reed till it break, Its quivering harpstring's dying wail For passion's lurid tempest take; But THOU GOD SEEST all the soul; Its crushing wrong, its dark despair Is mirrored in thy'open scroll,- A juster judgment waits us there! L. TO MY WILL-O'-WISP DAUGHTER, FANNY FERN. FANNY, my child, your mother does know you are out, but means to let you have your own way, without any fuss, as all reasonable, well-behaved parents should, when they know they can't help themselves. But my dear, why don't you strike all round when you get the " cat" in your hand, instead of stopping short with a few ill-bred editors, whose mothers, poor silly things, never taught them the first principles of civilization. I don't half like such invidious distinc- tions. There's the whole tribe of a Itching Ears now, "- just listen at them, when they happen to pounce on a suspected contributor, or get a real live author by the button! One would think they'd bought him instead of his book or article, and ten to one if they didn't   OFFICIAL DOCU'MENTS.       21 borrow that. And yet what a sweet howl they'd set up, if, after carefully folding down the page of a letter, you should deliberately turn it up and read every mortal syllable before their face and eyes. You might as well be at an Irish wake ; they wouldn't stick to call you "an unlicked cub," .and your respectable parentess a "she bear." Hurting people's feelings, I take to be the main ob- ject of " blowing them up," and when they haven't any to hurt, it's labor lost; and 'twould break your dear little heart to see your venerable mother fatigue herself to no purpose ; but couldn't you, honey, just give them a little oil of Lash? Do now, that's a good child ; and much oblige your dutiful mamma, FRANCES FERN, Sen. January, 18583. FILIAL. " OH, annoyed are you?  Well, I told you so, with all your old frumpery notions about decorum, and delicacy and urbanity, just fit to rusticate with Chinese mandarins and Dutch burgomasters in some old land- scape garden. And good enough for you, too; you never would learn to clear a brush fence and dash through a nettle patch properly!" Hush, Fanny, hush! That isn't the civil chat for a model mamma who knows her place and conducts so sensibly I "Give 'em a little oil of Lash?" To be sure she can, or she's no foster-sister of mine ; and if she     22       FAMLY PAPERS AND won't, I will. Any thing to oblige you, ma'am, so long as it- chimes in with my own humor, and you keep quiet and treat your children respectfully; so walk up here, every man, woman and child of you, and see if you don't catch it. You're a pretty looking set, now : hold up your head you omadhoun there! It isn't enough, is it, that every guessing, prying,. keyhole editor in the land must be bragging that Mr. SO-AND-SO, " the inevitable Mr. So- and-so," shook him by the paw, or walked into his sanc- tum, but you must infest the high seas to waylay and capture all innocent fugitives from notoriety? Who gave you "Letters of Marque," I should like to know, that you've any right to board a strange craft, and or- der the captain to stand and deliver 'Ca full and par- ticular" of his own private history, with that of, the crew and all other cargo? ",Haven't got any, eh?" Thought as much-and, harkee, Mr. Scout, and you, too, Captain Itemizer Longhow, my wife's cousin, Sour- krout Snapdragon, Esq., says he's kin to old Judge Lynch, and thinks an unhung spy, unlicensed priva- teer, and poacher at large, little better than PUBLIC NUISANCES! And here are you, too, modest Mrs. Dotell, with your old aunt, Eve Whatdoes! Have you ever a Bible between you, with a word in it about Busybodies, and don't you feel ashamed of yourselves now? No, you don't-you haven't got sense of propriety enough to feel ashamed of any thing! It won't be long before the whole tribe of you'll be popping into my store, just to buy a shawl or borrow a calico dress, and then coolly   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       23 expect me to furnish you a whole suit of underclothes, of the choicest superfine, from that down, free gratis! You'd better, you had. CRAB' THE SECOND. AN INVALID'S SOLILOQUY. "I had no place to flee unto, and no man cared for my soul l" " JUDGE NOT," some chain the willing footstep stays, Thy brother's heart, perhaps, is vexed with care : A sister knows not of the bitter days That thought sits brooding o'er its lone despair. "FE, HEAT, how should they know how cold is DEATE, How fiercely gasps the encoffined mind To catch once more the gush of living breath? Lone, doubting heart, think better of thy kind! Think yet again, oh thou of little faith, He lives, who ne'er forsakes, though all forget ; "OVE, STRENGTH and TRUTH is pledged! His bow ' thus saith," Serene and high, spans all the darkness yet. "A SUPERNUMERAIRE. TO  t BRIDE. MRS. J. L. M., OF LOUISIANA. GOD bless the beautiful and young, God bless the weary, sad, and old;     24       FAMLY PAPERS AND I will not shame my poet's tongue By envy of thy double gold. Thy spirit's wealth is rich and rare, Th) life's young rose hath known no mould, And worthy thou of fate so fair: God keep thy heart from growing old I L. L. "OGIC AND DEFERENCE. c MY GRANDMOTHER!" "Well, what?" 'Noth- ing, you old quiz, I didn't mean you, you know I didn't," says my eldest hope, " but here's this newspaper, throw- ing up that crazy tomboy of a New York gal that went gallivantin in her brother's Sundays (more fool he not i to wear 'em himself), and telling the 'prim spinsters and strong-minded matrons' they didn't know 'what it was all a comiri' to' when they were talking short skirts and 'woman's rights.'-Isn't it awful?" "Yes, very," replies my sensible mamma, " and that isn't half-there's been a whole book printed about some Yankee she Debby that went a soldiering in the Revo- lutionary war, and got discharged, and married and pen- sioned ; and more, too, about one Joan of Arc, that they pretend went philandering up and down dressed in mail, and fighting on horseback more like a born fury than a decent, honest, Christian woman; and got burned at last as a witch for her pains!-You see they never dc come to any good."   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        25 "Hold on there, old 'un, you're coming it a leetle too strong, that 'ere all happened before Bloomer and Convention were born!" "That doesn't make a bit o' difference, sonny; it's all owing to Mrs. Pantalets and Miss Strongminded. And that isn't the worst either, for ever since their dis- graceful outhreak passed with impunity, some other ri- diculous creatures--ambitious snips of tailors or clothiers no doubt-have been suspected of unlawful designs upon the heads of community; and now it seems some bar- barous wretch has got this poor editor's 'hat,' and you see yourself there isn't a particle of brains left!" "MY EYE, no there isn't," says Crab' the third, chucking down his gourd-case with a decided 'you don't get my brains, see if you do' air ; " but do you know, old Specs, I wonder you and all the old fogies don't take up for Miss Convention and Mrs. Fillibuster!" "I take up for them? I!" a Yes, you ; why not? They're the exact reverse of that swaggering, lying, ' sack-imbibing old. varlet,' Jack Falstaff!" "So they are, boy, so they are, for he was 'not only witty himself, but the cause of wit in others!' Enough said." Right smart boy, that, my son Crab'--if his granny doesn't spoil him I CRAB' THE SECOND. 2     26       FAMLY PAPERS AND NEW LORDS, NEW LAWS. Mss BETSEY'S IJA[AUGURAL, fMarch 4th, 1853. INKHQRNS, POUNDTEXTS, COMPOSITIONSTICKS: ATTENTION, all of you! Try and keep quiet, and walk a chalk, will you? I've got something else to do -besides following you up all the while to keep you from making perfect sillies of yourselves; but just let me catch you playing the fool with your " little go," stirring up, and perverting President Pierce's twenty-gix battal- ions any where in this republic of letters, and see if I'm not dowxl upon you with rod and lictor! BETSEY TROTWOOD, Censor. DID YOU EVER?       . No, I never! I really am ashamed of you-you, I mean, Mr. Editor-you, who sit on a three-legged stool; you, to whom the people look up, to talk such bad grammar, and confound genders after this fashion! Don't you actually know any better, or do you suppose your paper unfit for ladies' eyes, that you are always talking about your C readers," and say never a word about the readeresses? Try and mend your ways, will you, and oblige this present writeress. BETSEY TROTWOOD Censor.. * Tho old "Stand ng Army" of William the testy, i. e., the 26 Letters of Alphabet.   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       27 THE ENGLISH IS A STRONG LANGUAGE. "STRONG/' no mistake about that!-strong, I should rather think it was, to be identified at this present, after all the hauling and pulling, and twisting and screwing, to make it "walk round about the truth," till there's scarce a word with an inkling of its original signification left! Here's WOMAN now, once it meant a companion "meet" for man, when man was made in the image of his Maker; now, a poor vulgar creature made (for other people's convenience) out of the refuse clay, unfit for the crystal and china wares of creation. Then, when this "c woman" was lawfillly married, she was the wife of her husband. "And isn't she now, pray?" Not a bit of it, sir! She's nothing in the world but his lady ; that is, some sort of feminine appendage-it may -be his sister, his neighbor, his cousin, or it may be something else, not altogether so presentable; so you'd better keep your eyes open, and make your own inferences-I can't help you, though it's evidently some incumbrance between him andthe rest of the baggage. And LADY, too ;-old writers tell us it comes from lafdy, a contraction of laf, a loaf, and day, which signi- fied a loaf-givr ; that is, a domestic sort of personage rather given to benevolence and hospitality. Now, it neans a bundle of intense selfishness done up in "a mighty void of sense," and moulded by fashion into a walking advertisement of more millinery, gewgaws, and other dry goods-no matter whose or how come by- than any small craft could make good sail under, if she     28       FAMLY PAPERS AND hadn't shipped more airs than would float a balloon. And then GENTLEMAN I Time was when that meant "ca man without fear and without reproach," now it means-shades of all the Bayards, what does it mean? Well, I don't wish to be too critical, and the English certainly is a strong language and a copious, but it strikes me it can't quite come up to that defi- nition!          .o . .  Here Miss Betsey-you've heard of my aunt BET- SEY TROTWOOD, the new CENSOR, haven't you?-gave an "insane tilt" of her beaver at my bundle of rods and fainted, just as one of the new specimens bawled out the name of another changeling, CHARITY, in excuse for fagging a young girl to death, whose father he had swindled out of his last dollar, and into a drunkard's grave.               f I know it's no manner of use this "tickling a rhi- nocerous with straws," and have my'doubts about the propriety of casting "pearls before swine;" but sup- pose I must do her bidding, or be reformed out of office, and lose all the reward of my uncommon filial piety ; so, do you know, sir, that of two inspired apostles, one gives the definition of that word synthetically and senten- tiously as LOVE, and the other goes into the analysis more elaborately? Of course you don't, and it's a won- der to me that some enterprising colporteur, or getter- up of pious young story-books for grown-up old children, don't think of interspersing a few texts of Scripture in the Price Current, for the benefit of those who never read any thing else; but neither of them ever dreams of confounding it with throwing ('by order of the   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       29 board") a dog's bone with a dog's treatment, at some audacious ws-tch who brings his misery "between the wind and your nobility," and then chanting loud paeans to your own munificence, and caustic invectives on his ingratitude. Ingratitude, indeed! And what for should he be grateful? That you have pelted off a nuisance with dirty coppers and more bitter words, more to relieve your own eyes than his necessities? Don't he know, as well as you, how easily you can poke your hands into your own pockets, say, "so many appeals to charity," and "pass over on the other side," when they are only reported to you? To be sure he does; and don't he know, too, that this very "so many," is generally proof positive that you never respond to any? None better; and here you swell up, as if the world never saw the like of such magnanimity, because you take in an orphan child, as well if not better born than your own, and their equal, or superior, it may be, in every i:  thing but present position; or (when you can't help it) patronize in some sort an unfortunate acquaintance, that you were once proud, perhaps, in your very heart's core, to call your "friend," make her the bond slave of all your wills, exact ever after the labor of a Hercules, the patience of Job, the meekness of Moses, the devotion of a martyr, the love of a seraph, and the servility of a toady; and then feel amazed beyond measure if she isn't willing, ever after, to go to perdition, if necessary, to save you and yours from " dying of a rose in aromatic pain." MONSTROUS, isn't it, this "black ingratitude of     30        FAMLY PAPERS AND human nature" (certes if it exists), and altogether inex- plicable? Not quite! Did you never reflect, that "man is of three natures, reguiring all for charity," that no one feels specially thankful for what he has paid for, over and over, and that this very proscribed ingrate feels in his secret soul that you have taken your pay drop by drop out of his heart's blood to the very last farthing, and ten times over, in the pleasure of trampling down, in your coldness, your passion or your pride, all the in- dependence of his nature-scoffing, sneering, deriding and ignoring all the finer feelings of his being? And he has paid you, for " a man's self-respect is worth more to him than money, and evil is the charity that hum- bleth and maketh man less happy!" Once I saw a lady. engage some domestic " finery," and wear it too, despite her own excellent taste, lest the ingenious manufacturer should consider the purchase a mere pretext for bestowing a few dollars which she herself but ill could spare ; and that wtas charity, but yours-goto, you don't even understand its first princi- ples, never take the word in your mouth again till you know what it means! You have not given " to diligence as to an equal," and the extorted pittance is deadly aconite to the soul! CRABTREE AP CRAB', 1st Lictor   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        31 'WHY DON'T THE STATE OF MARYAND PUT HM (Rev. Mr. S.) IN PETTICOATS?" SURE enough, why don't it? I am afraid flannels and domestics must be scarce, and my own stock is getting rather low ; but inasmuch as he " that hath two coats" is enjoined to " give to him that hath none," I'll try and squeeze out one rather than he and his brethren, lay and clerical, who figure on the opposite side, shouldn't be properly attired. But why in the name of common sense-if she isn't defunct-can't they see, that when the third gender goes about, to raise a fuss, " kick up a row," and " ele- vate the ancient Henry" generally, there's .no way like "Ietting it alone very severely," if they want it to go home and mind its own business, if it's got any, and leave them to do the talking; which it never will so long as they keep it before the public in so many point- less jests and pithless invectives, evincing nothing half so clearly as a hearty good will to be witty and sarcastic if they only could. Well, there's a vast deal of weakness and wicked- ness stirring, no doubt ; but it strikes me a Highland seer would have thought of turning his own coat before making so many mislicks; yet here they all are, and never a man of them dreaming that he's only playing showman and " second fiddle" to this fillibustering lusu8s, and keeping it in countenance, by showing the world that there can be something a little more ridiculous! Here, you" young Harry," lay that flattering unc-     32        FAMLY PAPERS AND tion on the pulpit and press, or never say "copy" to mne again. BETSEY TROTWOOD, Censor. ALABAMA.* RESPETUL INSCRIBED TO THE CITIZENS OF MOBILE AND MONTGOMERY. BRIGHT land of " sweet waters," how falls on the soul, All frozen and chilled in the Crescent's cold glare, The balm of thy love ; and till life's latest goal Be thy sons ever brave, thy daughters most fair. Oh, Love-is the light on the seraph's bright wing, So dear to the eye that is glazing in death; In music Love steeps every cherub-harp's string, And LOVE, holy love, is God's essence, he saith! On the heart Genius flings his glory and pall, Love bathes all its folds, and what splendor so rare? So, land of " sweet waters," the minstrel her all, Breathes o'er thee this moment, in blessing and prayer. "L. 18538. * SWEET WATERS, until some "pestilent researches into antiquity' translated it " here we rest."   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS,         I 33 WOMAN'S SPHERE. R espectfully dedicated to those astute savans owho never discover "that in order to live WELL: people must live," nor that some :women might possibly chance to miss the wohole, sole and uni. :versal MSSIO, if they should happen to starve to death before- hand, or after they get out of practice.  "To tell the hundreds and thousands of women struggling, in some form, for sub- sistence, that their MSSION is, 'to make good wives and mothers,' is simply to insult them most stupidly I "--GREELEY. "A certain age, which is the most uncertain thing of all."-BYRON. No, that it isn't! Stick to poetry, my lord ; you've a rather respectable "Cknack   of rhyming," but don't shine here, that's certain. There's WOMAN'S SPHERE, now, as much taller in the way of dubiousness, as metaphys- ics is head and shoulders over mathematics.     Why, I tell you, man, it could give odds, carry weight and beat all hollow, at the very first clip, any other will-o'-wisp ever seen this side Adam's fall!  Hundreds upon hun- dreds have been doing their best to come up with it ever since the hue and cry was first started ; but it's no more use than diving for the philosopher's stone in a boiling caldron of patriotism.    They might just as well have been hunting for-pshaw, " a needle in a haystack " is no sort of comparison-for-for-a fanatic's reason, a patron's memory, a client's gratitude, an office-seeker's modesty, or any other inconceivable " phe-no-me-na    " Here Crab', speechmaking's your forte ; I'm    out of breath, speak my speech! "Certainly, ma'am!  You mean to say that they, that is, those I'm talking about, didn't, to be sure, loosE I   for it on stumps, or in the pulpit, the bar, conventiors,     34       FAMLY PAPERS AND and such like museums and menageries, not even Uncle Sam's over in Washington there ; because, being in the main honest, sensible, 'law-abiding' citizens, they knew, of course, it wasn't to be found in any such unlikely, outlandish, rowdy-like, ridiculous places, though it can't be denied that some of them, editors, teachers and, doc- tors for instance, did pry into others nearly as conspic- uous, improper and disreputable; but, as was said be- fore, not the first one of them ever got possession." "The Mrs. Delicacys-sweet, gentle, retiring, lady- like, or poor sickly creatures-led off. And if any body could have found it, you'd have thought they might, for they couldn't, or wouldn't, or didn't look for it in any thing so masculine as 'business,' whether able to fee one set of agents for doing it, and another for overseeing them or not ; and any gentlemen of their acquaintance would, you know, 'attend to it with a great deal of pleasure,' if they only had time and didn't happen to forget it ; but what with smoking cigars, 'cussing' and discussing politics, icing brandy-smashers, and trying to raise poles to the height of human folly, they were one and all 'so desperately hurried and worried,' that really 'they did wish women would quit making such rag- babies of themselves, take their own proper sphere and fill it, and not torment them to death with their ever- lasting importunity!'"  "How absurd, just as if it made the slightest differ- ence whether their affairs were attended to now oi some time after the day of judgment; but then, poor creatures, I suppose they can't help thinking it does, sometimes, so it's rather a pity, but what they might."   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       35 '"Don't be so sarcastic, Mr. Dick, one old quiz like Crab' here is enough for any family!" "One too many, perhaps." C Quite likely, but go on, Ap!" c Well, they missed it, you see, and their cousins, the Mrs. Easys, who slipped quietly down from parlor to kitchen, from house to pig-stye, and as fast as real es- tate disappeared put the more personal property in its place, didn't do a bit better ; for as soon as it was discover- ed that every individual piece had the kind of flaw called "a mouth," some men thought, and thought pretty loud too, that a woman's legitimate sphere didn't consist in lumbering up the world with rubbish that couldn't even be turned over to the sheriff, or thrown in with other live stock to eke out ' a capital speculation.'" Mrs. Hold-her-own, Lookout, and Mind-her-own-busi- ness, agreed with them--wouldn't even look for it in the nest of that old goose, whose custom it was to lay golden eggs, be picked, plucked, starved, and otherwise " done to death," to enable her lord and master to cut a dash and astonish all out-doors-had no faith in their " nis- sion" to enrich the family circle with half a dozen loafers, and as many more walking brandy bottles or milliners' shops, apiece-didn't worship St. Griselda, ad- mire "water lots," paper cities, and other ingenious in- ventions, for enabling keen-sighted fiscal operators to see quite through their own property and their wives' too; nor believe, most religiously, in loving their neighbors a great deal better than themselves! Of course nobody expected them to find it; and every righteous usurer, gambler, or rumseller, unjustly defrauded of his three or  36        FAMLY PAPERS AND four hundred per cent.; every disinterested "friend of the family," choused out of some " smashing business ' by stupid prejudice against new scrip and absurd love of old parchment; every charitable, public-spirited law- yer, trustee and guardian, unfortunately interdicted from building hospitals, churches and colleges, at the -expense of his client or ward; every ill-used tenant, forced by legal hocus-pocus to balk some "capital fel- low" of a landlord of champagne frolics, oyster suppers, dice and other condiments of the back saloon, when he could just as well furnish him a trifling advance at a slight discount of fifty or sixty per cent. as not, was, you may be sure, utterly and instinctively shocked and disgusted with such insolence, meanness, unnatural sus- picion, revolting selfishness, and most shameless and un- feminine intervention! The world had got to a pretty pass,--it had indeed, if all good-fellowship, inventive genius, the interests of commerce, scientific demonstration, individual and joint- stock enterprise were to be held in check by silly woman's caprice! What should she know of banking and tra- ding and splendid operations altogether a8bove her ken? What right had   she to go "mixing  herself up with men's business," find out that her confidential friend had got her last dollar invested in his own name, and make him refund before they, his sworn chums, choice spirits, and honorable creditors, could get hold of it? It was infamous, indeed it was! - If woman hadn't sense enough to consult her true interest, confine herself to her own sphere, and see only through man's optics, it was lime somebody taught her that it was! They, for their   IsK$      OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       37 part, didn't see what law was made for, if it couldn't protect men's rights a little better; and long and loud they bewailed their own hard fate, and sobbed, "our sufferings is intolerable!"But when one Biddy O'Niver- fail slipped into a vulgar " hell," pounced on her own silver spoons and made off with the dollars (C scraped to- gither jist to pay the'rint buy the wee bit o' coal, and the darlint's shoes, " then didn't they use strong lan- guage, Oh, but did'nt they? It took three full hours before they could find a sheet of paper strong enough to hold it, and four "good men and true," sworn to make her a public example and de- fend all henpecked husbandry from such high-handed outrage in future, to carry it and her effigy up to the pillory; but as ill-luck would have it, the "old un" (who is always on hand to help his own, I think) had one of his regular "limbs" articled there, and what did the sneering little imp--knowing he couldn't look inno- cent if he tried-do, the moment he set his eyes on "Ieft my bed," but stick his arms akimbo and ask if "my uncle" took in lodgers, and when he came to "and board," screw himself up into a most diabolical twist, and hint that she " might have been scrouged out from under the doggery table-?"  Consequently the "Old boss" (I don't mean the very oldest one), after administering, as was proper, a sharp box on the place where young Impudence's jaw had been, and ascertain- ing that the other culprit wouldn't be like to go security for his (the printer's) fee, concluded that such. "low personalities" were beneath the notice of first class papers ike his; though lie kindly volunteered to make     38       FAMLY PAPERS AND the affair a sort of standing, unwritten text for all the grave homilies, reprimands, affectionate appeals, fatherly admonitions and " grand palavers " which he and other argus-eyed might from time to time see fit to bestow on the sex at large, irrespective of rank or class. So in the long run Biddy got off just as scot-free as any of the balance, and rather amused, if the truth must be told, at the witty little squibs, jests and jibes eliminated. "A very good wit" they all had; it hurt nobody, but good does sometimes come out of evil; thousands who never would have found time to make any exploring expedi- tions themselves, have in consequence been vastly en- lightened as to the precise whereabouts and cosmogony Of WOMAN'S SPHERE. The very sight of a chart or guide-book throws all the Mrs. Mops and Miss Brooms into perfect ecstasies. "The quiet and the shade is woman's sphere, (oh, isn't that so nice and refreshing this warm weather?) the care of her infant offspring, her first and holiest duty!  (That's rather bad, as I haven't any "'young ideas " to shoot, and yours are all grown up and out of the way; but never mind, I dare say they'll have a gen- eral distribution of babies after a while.) She must re- tire from public lfe (to be sure we will, and glad of the chance), itsfierce struggles, angry strife, and sordid cares ; its noise and glare are not for her ; (now doesn't that sound so sensible and refined?) it must ever grieve her BEST FRIENDS to see her mingling in the loud- mouthed, hardhanded strife of that unholy arena!" "Dear, dear, how it must worry your poor father and husband, Carrie, for us to sit up all night writing their   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        39 sermons and editorials, when they've overdone them-- selves a little, eating and drinking for the good of hu- inanity!" "Well, I must say I am sick and tired playing du- enna to silks and domestics that\will form improper, de- grading alliances with the vulgar scum in spite of me, making a 'a perfect figure' of myself, hunting patterns all over town, but never knew before but what brother Charlie and my Edward took it all very patiently, if the collars only happened to fit." "And only to think what my dear departed John must have suffered, seeing me go to market every morn- ing, and how like a saint he always bore it too 1 If it hadn't have been for asking him for money now and then, I don't suppose I ever should have found it out. Maoggie dear, if ever you get married, always remember, child, to have the wicker basket brought up with the patent leathers!" "Why mother, how you talk I I don't expect even Boots would have me now, a great shameless, brazen- I  faced Amazon in public life, that's disgraced herself, performing at that vulgar theatre in A B C Hall! If I had only gone to the Opera now -- but I'm sure, I never meant to scandalize all my BEST FRIENDS," "And sister Harriet and I never dreamed how it !  hurt all their feelings, for us to look after the crop and !  mind the shop; while Mr. Dragonstooth was dispensing : mountain dew to his thirsty followers, demonstrating the origin of trade-winds in Bunkum, and the feasibility j  of superseding steam and Gulf Stream  by that great :j' motive power, and Mr. Drygoods, gone up with Mr. ,.I;.EPs Sg va     40       FAMLY PAPERS AND Tripod and Rev. Dr. Decorum to the Observatory, to help Professor Tirewoman and President Count-the- skirts, take the altitude, latitude, and longitude, of Miss Virgo's drapery." "No indade, madam, but of coorse it did; for they takes it so hard to see even the likes of me, trudging through rain and shine, to gather up the bit sewing, or carry home the week's washing, that they always blocks up the way, and crowds us off into the gutter if they possibly can!" "Yes, but, that's all over, Kate,-there's to be no more toil, and mud, and dust for us now; no parents are ever more to, bring daughters into the world and leave them to shift for themselves ; no father dare to die without first providing them at least one husband and two children apiece; no helpless young mother to be left with herself and family to provide for; no selfish, monopolizing spouse, dream of making his exit before looking up a successor; no stupid, obstinate, domineer- ing, or worthless, unprincipled incumbrance, to force the weaker vessel to breast life's surges alone, or with some ignorant, reckless, gambling, drunken pilot at the helm; no faithless young lover to take himself off and leave his intended to wear the willow; no true-hearted one to wing his flight to a brighter sphere and bequeathe her the cypress! There's to be no more picking and choos- ing, taking one perhaps three or four times, and leaving another without any owner; an old maid or bachelor, is henceforth to be a thing Barnum couldn't find. Strict embargoes are everywhere to be enforced, and no wicked traitor to manifest destiny, presume to abduct himself   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       41 from his present abiding place so long as a single unap- propriated, marriageable female remains. Uncle Sam is to make it his special duty to keep up a Cbeps de reserve, to supply all adcidental losses and deficiencies, preserve the balance of numbers between his nephews and nieces, and see that no careless, inefficient, or im- provident wife lacks her full quota of ' little angels;' no disconsolate widow, pining, unaffianced, or contuma- cious, man-contemning c old forlornity' stands 'all the day idle,' or shirks out under any pretext whatever from woman's uniform, unexceptional Mission.  In short, there's nothing more for us to do, but expand our own graces in the serene atmosphere of domestic life, smile on our husbands, and nurse infant seraphs with folded wings, until they get high enough to draw maps of Woman's Sphere, on pulpit cushions and three-legged stools, and sketch designs for that monument we are going to build to the inventors of the same." "Well, and thin, bless their dear souls, it won't be Kathleen O'Do-or-die that'll be withholding this con- thribution to that same;" but just at this identical moment, there came a sound   so full of woe," that every one knew instinctively it must be the summons from some ill-boding old raven, or ominous "Scrich-owl" (pretty birds of wisdom they are), which having elected itself Purveyor-General to the wants, moral, social, con- jugal, and intellectual, of Messieurs Backwoods and  Rising-generation long before young Backwoods and I Rising-generation -knew any thing where they were or i what they wanted, now called for a draft of "Twenty   Thousand" educationists, immediately; and intimated I,.A     42       FAMLY PAPERS AND pretty clearly that FIFTY must be had," and the con- script renewed " every three years." Mothers wept, daughters fainted, and even ancient spinsters folded their hands in blank despair! A few gallant spirits, however, with that calm steady light in the eye, that you would follow any where, to the van of a forlorn hope, flung themselves into the breach, declar- ing they would die at their posts sooner than be dragged one inch from WOMAN'S SPHERE. A few more loyal subjects rallied at length, and memorialized the CONSER- VATORS; setting forth the extreme hardships of the case, the imperious tone, and despotic nature of the Ukase, and imploring them " to raise the siege and put their disciples in immediate and inalienable enjoyment of their own loved ideal!" A majority seemed to think some sort of transmigration or pilgrimage still inter- vened; but Mrs. Masterly-Inactivity sat quietly down, vowing "that if they chose to bring it round, it was all very well, but for her part, she shouldn't budge a soli- tary foot," and Mrs. Speak-her-mind, gave it as her opinion, " that it wasn't to be found this side Mahomet's Paradise, unless it lay in doing what each and every individual man in the universal world wanted dbne, and didn't want, to do. There was nothing left for it then, but to send a full delegation of the most illustrious Discoverers, Topog- raphers, Censors, Legislators, and accomplished Man- Milliners, to wait on the Houris, and demand immediate possession; and in case they declined yielding the in- cumbency of WOMAN'S SPHERE, to do the next best thing-secure such a full and particular description, ,   a   IWI' OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       43 portrait and pattern of the same, as should be perfectly adaptable to all persons, places, times, and emergencies : -not omitting, in mean time, to deploy a sufficient force from their own supernumeraries, to cover all vul- nerable points, from the daring and insidious attacks of those seditious amphibiae ("C neither fish, flesh, fowl, nor good red herring"), bent on slipping themselves into half-and-halfs, for the better convenience of scaling walls, if foiled in their nefarious attempts to level boundaries. But why didn't the strongminded in hats and tights' despatch them  at once-hadn't they 'paper bullets' enough?"  "Humph! why yes-no.-The fact is, the mis- chievous monkeys were so unprecedentedly thick-skulled, they wouldn't know when they were killed!     What would you advise, Mr. Dick, in such premises?" "Have they committed any overt acts of hostility recently?" "Oh yes, any amount of 'high falutin,' fillibuster and 'phifty-four-phortyism,' and one of the Argus-eyes says' : Strongminded woman is putting herself through a course of political ethics' (must have good eyes to find them), Imedical lectures, and newspaper essays V'" "Oh, she is, is she? Well then, let them mind their own business, talk less nonsense, set better 'xam- ples, pass better laws, make better prescriptions, write better articles, and devise better customs, and she'll have less occasion. That's my opinion!" Don't know which looks the most ridiculous, a superannuated Shanghae, stalking round, exhorting ah hens ,nd ducks to quit eggs and aquatics, or a profound old goose in Toga, informing the entire feathered race   "      FAMLY PAPERS AND that they are every one bound to swim, and raise chickens. Shouldn't wonder if the ducks were to take to water, and the owls to hooting, after all their fuss." "Bless you, Mr. Dick, your common sense Is ad- mirable!" Expect the sure enough Missionaries will find out they're wives and mothers, without quite so much palaver. If they never do, and' can't even get themselves off their hands, no how,' as Crab says, rather conclude that wasn't their " mission." Suppose the Missionators don't exactly mean them to pounce upon husbands, ' after the manner of the tribe of Ben- jamin,' or help themselves to children 'any how?' Of course not; but hope, ma'am, you don't expect the free and enlightened to consider them female critters WOMEN?  Might as well insist they're Ladies, when they haven't got three or four thousand a-year to be swindled out of, or somebody to make or swindle it for them!  "Hush up, Crab I Where's Humboldt? Tend to I Mr. Dick,-no wonder he's fainted 1 BETSEY TROTWOOD, Censor, Per CRABTREE AP CRAB, 18st Litor. NOTE PER SEC. PHE-NO-ME-NA" (phenomena, see page 33), a noun singular, since applied by a full-grown, to an in- cipient M. D., who had "hunted all through the Medical Dictionary, and all through the Classical Dictionary, and couldn't find it." "i   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       45 PI          CHARLESTON. I may not look upon thy quaint and gallant face, But rightly art thou named, fair city of the Sun; First CHARLES in virtue, Second in thy grace, Right regal is thy tone, and princely is thy TON. "AWRENCE MELVILLE, Ad. Inter. I CLEVER AUTHORESS. CLEVER the mischief! What do you mean, you double-faced satyr, by this blowing hot and cold in the very same breath?  And what has my niece, Lady Lackland done, I should like to know, that she should be stigmatized " authoress?" She doesn't go unwashed and unkempt, her belong- ings are no dirtier than other folks, nobody ever saw "five greasy nightcaps deck her head," what business nave you, then, to ' soft-soap" her this way? She don't patter about slipshod, clatter about in hat and boots, nor lounge about in fantastic, tatterdemalion,  woe-be-gone old wrapper from morning till night-never takes a pen for a soup-ladle, makes chocolate in a coal- scuttle, salts tea out of an inkstand, cuts muttonchops with a pearl folder, flutes ruffles on a gridiron, or mis-     "       FAMLY PAPERS AND takes, by any possible chance, your best sock (instead of vest) for a pudding-bag-can tell apple dumplings from sourkrout, dutch cheese from cabbage heads, raw, and other greens in unsophisticated state-never needs  *  Spanish flies for inky fingers, or has to hunt all day and I *   borrow a broom to-morrow, " to sweep the cobwebs from f  the sky,"-knows a thimble by sight, darning-needle by personal acquaintance-has more "premeditated poverty" than " accidents of the day" about the heels of her stockings-keeps her "little Jellybys" no worse off than their neighbors, her marital's buttons and strings in good condition as most conjugals-his satrap- ship never grumbles (more than becomes a philosopher) about the dust on his coat, and the mud in his coffee, nor vows-oftener than is needful for the preservation of "discipline,"--that his shirt. collars 'never do fit," and that's more than your wife can say of you and yours; and now, what right have you, you corduroy simpleton- ess, to infamize her, one of President Pierce's subjects and my officials, with such an epithet as " authoress?" It's libellous I know, it's actionable I believe, and if ever I find a gentleman " as is a gentleman," that ever slept with a law book under his head, and isn't besotted past compos, lest some high-stepping she-male should toddle into those plaid absurdities of that in- tensely Statesprison-looking toggery of his, Ill have you prosecuted for defamation. "Authoress," you ninnified quintessimal of all ancient, sillyism, it's a reflection on your respectable parentess, and it's a wonder she don't see you are lout, and be after you with a gong-ette! Ah, here she comes    -: S OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.            47 "Oh Jamie, Jamie, bairn, weel a day that e'er ye should think to gang out by yer lone self, when ye ken weel enough, ye born natural, that it's oure and often I've tellt ye, ye had na the gumption to last over night J Come haim, Jamie." Yes, you'd better, or you'll be apt to get Lictor- tized. BETSEY TROTWOOD, Censor. NUMBER ONE AND NUMBER TWO, I 3:P FIRST-CLASS HOTELS. NUMBiAR ONE, neat, comfortable conveyance from steamboat and depot, freb gratis. NUMBER Two, fale ex- tra (and discretionary with your surly captor), in a forlorn dirty old omnibus, that tells you the moment you are seated, and have time to look. round, how completely vou were "sold" by that dealer in irony, who asserted Number Two, to be "one of the first hotels in the country." Number One, handsome reception-room, where you can sit or recline at your ease, till the presiding genius comprehends intuitively where you and your belongings can be bestowed most entirely to your own satisfaction. Number Two, sit in the public gangway, or stand and hold up the banisters till somebody comes and shuffles you off into the first vacant space. Number One ROOMS airy, good-sized, faultlessly clean, and not en- tirely cut off from all communication with the out-door     48        FAMLY PAPERS AND world; Number Two, not very diminutive, but rather calculated to show off your accomplishments in the art of packing baggage in' the smallest possible compass, and commanding a charming surveillance of the sayings and doings, gymnastics and callo-thumpion rehearsals of the whole kitchen menage. Number One, CHAIRS, half dozen, rosewood and ma- hogany, spring-seat and cane-bottom; Number Two, one Windsor, two cane-bottom, all very common. Num- ber One, CARPET good, good of its kind, and in good preservation-not the slightest occasion for a score of Secession and Woman's Right newspapers to interdict an unholy alliance offensive and retentive between it and the soles of your, shoes. Number Two, medium Scotch, judging from remoter parts, the more contiguous being so patriotically attached to the soil of their coun- try, that, like other patriots, their precise stripe and color is a little dubious.  Mem. Fine thing, my Aunt Betsey's lost her specs, and off to the rescue of Mr. Dick, who was entrapped, poor man, while lying in a collapse after his great effort in the long closing speech on the Woman's Right ques- tion, and forcibly inducted, SHE THNKS, into the chair of Befoggery in the Transmundane, Cosmopolite, Hybrid- ity Institute, by some sur loi, sub terre, kidnapping, manifestation kelpies; though, my own opinion is, that he's been regularly burked, for not finding the NEW- "GHT rapped out of empty heads, tilting chairs, and tipping tables;-but don't we know   somebody else. this side California, that would be apt to say, " wash" it, or send it on a short pleasure-trip at the stern of a   "   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.   steamer, and see it come back, much reduced in specific gravity, bu-t more improved in elasticity and general sa- lubrity? Well, I reckon! Number One, FIREPLACE marble, closed (supposing it to be summer), with highly polished fancy network, cast-iron grating, showing a background of spotless white; Number Two, hearth-brick painted red, fire- place plastered and whitewashed very fairly, and fur- nished with two green-footed andirons, supposed to be brass, and a pair, done up one in white, the other in newspaper.  Mem. Convenient place to sweep other papers, and- all sorts of trash-saves labor! - Number One, MOSQUITO-BARS, best lace, exquisitely white, tent style, suspended per centre, its graceful folds spread out at night without any hint of yours, and thrown back by day overhead of low French lounge bed- stead, where you can get on and off just as easy as not. Number Two, scrapped and patched,'cross-barred, and lace, very yellow fixtures (unless you understand " the hang " of the things, and can get them down yourself), over apparently new, but very suspiciously worm-eaten "testers" and regular turned post, high old-fashioned bedstead. If young, hale and active, you can take a flying leap, and light somewhere near the middle; if not, just shove a trunk or two alongside, and you'll climb up after a while, may be. Number One, COUNTERPANE, finest Marseilles, changed once a week, if you stay so long,; sheets and pillow- slips twice ditto, and oftener, if a drop of tea, or speck of any kind, happens to bedim  their spotless sheen. Mattress, new and fresh, double-spring, and very best 3  I50       FAMLY PAPERS AND quality, that nothing but a guilty conscience could pos^ sibly make lie hard, if you should try by any fair means twenty-three hours out of twenty-four; and all made to fit the bedstead and each other so exactly, you can't get them out of sorts and " all up in a mess," do what you will. Oh, you may haul and pull, and twist and screw, and turn and tumble, it's no use, there they are. Num- ber Two, old dimity " cover" basted, darned, dirty and dingy; sheets, &c.,. common cotton, the same dark- colored white, only "a little more so;" setting you right off, if the least bit metaphysical, speculating on the probable prices of soap and water, and how many one dozen ironings are equivalent to any one washing, in that ' first-class" establishment. Bed, about as elastic as the " soft side of a plank ;" but if wise, and not feel- ing about as amiable as a porcupine at bay, you won't carry your investigations into other people's domestic concerns much further; indeed, there's no occasion to look. Pillows, twenty by nine inches, or thereabouts, but not very peripatetic, considering how much they have already outgrown their cases, their excursions (and those of their adjuncts) being generally bounded by big trunk on one side, and bureau on the other; unless mosquitoes are " very bad," in which case Betty or Bridget will probably find them somewhere about the room, or just out of the window. Number One, CENTRE-TABLE mahogany, with hand- some cover and Bible; wardrobe, side-table, bureau and washstand rosewood dike bedstead); the latter with marble-tops (Italian), to match hearth and mantel-piece. Furniture of washstand, &c., &c., all complete, double   sets; wares, china, fine and white, full complement. made to order, and nothing wanting. Number Two, wardrobe and centre-table among the missing ; bedstead sycamore ; bureau mahogany face, and respectable glass, otherwise very ordinary, and much neglected. Wash- stand and side-table common deal, painted divers colors, to correspond with every thing, where nothing looks like any thing else, nor any two like each other. Furniture of washstand, one hard, dark towel per diem, with nearly half a set of common white and motley delf, minus a top here, bottom there, and handle somewhere else,--looking, for all the world, like trophies won in the grand scramble, after a general smash-up in some old crockery concern. Side-table, rather hors dit combat, and shoved back out of the way into a dark corner; but if you want to eat, or write, just help that choice collec- tion to emigrate; put one foot into the soap-stand (there's no cover, nor soap bigger than a wafer, to hurt or. hinder), the other into the washbowl, and make yourself comfortable. They are quite clean now, you know, though I'm afraid you don't read your Bible as much as you should, or you'd remember, that ."evil communications corrupt good manners," and not suffer that little finger-brush of yours to scrape acquaintance with all the coarse wedgewood and dirty stone-china in the country. Don't tell me there isn't any; haven't you got one of your own, I should like to know? And, be- sides, what right have you to go about compromising the dignity of the toga, by enacting the " old woman," who got so much dirt by sweeping up once a year, that   52       FAMLY PAPERS AND she wondered "/what upon airth people did do with it all when they cleaned up every day?" N. B. If the establishments were large, and yielded, in proportion as much dust, dirt, lint and feathers, as I've seen on and under i some tables, beds and bureaus lately (I don't mean yours now, Number Two), I sus- pect they must have to employ a special train for its transportation; but that's a mere speculation. Number One, wheel round, turn a crank on the wall, and it's just as certain as " manifest destiny," that somebody 'll come up before you've half a chance to for- get what you wanted, looking so neat and cheerflul, po- lite, and perfectly respectful, that you can't possibly speak cross, or feel ill-natured, if you want to ever so much. Number Two, pretty fair cord and tassel, where you are welcome to exercise your patience and muscles all day, if you like-though I don't know so well about that, either, for when Paddy and Sukey can't stand "that confounded bell" any longer, it's a chance if some greasy, slatternly, blubber-lipped darky, or raw Celt- innocent of Anglo-Saxon as a Shanghai of high Latin-' doesn't come up looking shillalahs and vinegar-cruets at you, as much as to say, "I'll tache ye better manners, sir, nor" to be ringing me up any more, disthurbing the swatest nap, or the natest reel in the world;" and I reckon you won't, if you can help it. But a word to x you, Number One. People like to look at pretty pic- tures, you know, and how do you know but they some- times ring oftener than they would, if you didn't keep some uncommonly good-looking ones about? Verbum   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        53 sap-Number Two,/you see, understands this matter rather better. Number One, FARE, every luxury that sea and land, capital and- skill, can command; got up in every con- ceivable style but a bad or indifferent one, as if to prove that it's not high living, but gormandizing,--not rich cooking, but bad cooking, that makes people sick. For desserts, the whole science of pastry and confectionery illustrated. Prelude, fresh bills of fare three times a day; accompaniment, music to aid digestion. Number Two, half-boiled edibles for the vegetarian, raw enough to cook, and come again; huge masses of fish, flesh and fowl for the carnivorous, with lobsters, shrimps (and, for aught I know, toads, frogs, snails, centipedes, and other fres7h-zater reptiles) yesterday, to-day, and to-morrow, by way of variety. Dessert, sugar -and lard--lard, su- gar, and rice, slightly disguised with flour, and other va- riations. Music (about six hours every day), knife-and- fork prelude, plate-rattle chorus and gong interlude; and tin-pans and callothumpions " hide your diminished heads," you can't shine again after that gong! Bill of Fare (once a day if you insist), a regular veteran in small type epaulettes, and most magnificent' pen-flour- ishing "continuations," that mean exactly what they don't say ; so if you fancy Irish potatoes, invaluable in a state of siege, where lead and bullets are exhausted, just mark " greeen peas," or " corn "'-underscore " broiled chicken," and you'll probably get a huge chunk of black- looking meat, swimming in a whole plate-no, saucer, full of beef, or mutton tallow, but not so much as a little finger-napkin to bless yourself withal.   54        FAMLY PAPERS AND Comparisons may be "odorous," as Mrs. Malaprop says, and somewhat lengthy too, but it takes a first-rate artist to bring a "full length" before every mind's eye with one or two pen-and-ink dashes; so you see, Number Two, that if I hadn't gone into " specialty- pleas" like, you'd have lost all ,the beauty of contrast, and never known for certain whether it was yourself, or somebody else, that had the honor of sitting. And now, to show that I'm not playing censor, and putting on 's*, like other subs, because my superior's out of the way ; and lave, after all, just as much " sneaking kind- ness" for you left, as- could reasonably be expected from one of that flayed-alive, and barbecued set of mortals, called travellers,-I'm going, with a laudable zeal for your improvement, to put you in a way of seeing what's what, with your own eyes. Just make up a wallet-I paid you enough for no value received, the fractions being about right, the units all extra, to help along consideele-then take up a line of march " straight for CIifornia ;" but don't go as if shot out of a catapult, tt isn't the way to learn any thing, and sea water is,'e take it, about as salt one side of the Isthmus as the other ; and some people along the coast fancy that " some things can be done as well as others." - You'll find several nice settlements, or places where nice settlements oiight to be; one, in particular, promises to be a right smart little village, when Lake Erie gets turned upside down into the Gulf of Mexico .: but if you don't find Number One there, just go on till you do-when you come to the right place, any body can tell you which it is.    OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        55 Should the unaccustomed quiet and apparent leisure get rather alarming, and you begin to feel some misgiv- ings about remaining any longer in that enchanted castle, where every thing must be done by magic, or some invisible troops of fairies, it's all done so quick, noiselessly, and well, go right off to head magician, and make " a clean breast" of it. Having nothing in the world to fear from your rivalry, he won't mind enlight- ening you, till you can forget more in the next half hour than you ever knew before in all your life; or taking you round to see what sort of fairies he does operate with. When you have digested all that, just " possum it " a day or two-no, that won't be necessary either- just think of going back to Number Two, and if that doesn't lay you up for a good week, you are a man of some nerve-that's all! And, then, won't that attend- ant, who knows exactly what you want quite as well, if not a little better, than you do yourself, bring you every thing you ask for, and some others, which he thinks you ought to want, and would want, if you could only see them instead of the bill? Of course he will; and that elegant tea and dinner-service, with its superior cutlery, plate, china, and English glass, doesn't it look refresh- ing? Certainly; and those fine waiters, too-too fine not to be covered afresh three times a day with the finest and glossiest of damask; and those peerless napkins, looking so like incarnate light, or woven snow-wreaths- stop! you don't presume to think of laying your unholy, earth-worm fingers on that visible purity, without first breathing a sigh for some similar lustration to reach your own sin-soiled,world-worn spirit! If you do, you are a  b. 6      FAMLY PAPERS AND sinner "past praying for," I fear; but Number One doesn't know that, and won't he call up to see you-see if you will have a physician, or any thing else ; send 'up his compliments .to know how you are, with books and papers to amuse you-the paragraphs all marked that he thinks will specially interest you-and bring up agreeable company to entertain you? To be sure he will-no kind of doubt of it; ask if there is any thing else he can do for you-do it, too; collect information, and let you know when it is done, without waiting for you to inquire ; give you his advice (and it's a better article than you get every day free gratis) ; and all this time do you ever catch him look- ing icebergs, thunderbolts, and percussion-caps, till you expect every moment to hear, "Confound your impu- dence!" (or some other wicked words,) " do you suppose I've got nothing else to do, but look after you and your affairs?"No, you don't-you would really suppose he thought it was his business how his guests enjoyed themselves-his special pleasure to supply your want of tact and judgment ; and a pretty heavy surplus capital he must have to make up for some people's deficiencies, as I happen to know! Well, you feel better, now, don't you? Yes, I see you do; and when you see how much one kindly heart and master-spirit can perform, you feel very much like breaking every glass that reflects a flurried, petulant, im patient face, giving Paddy a clean shirt, Sukey and Sambo at least one pound of soap and a bucket of wa- ter apiece, and starting all those coarse, odd, black- looking old saucers, that you use for plates, with that   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.   '    57 common, dirty-handled, broken-tined cutlery, and the rest of that " tag-rag and bobtail" dining and bedroom furniture (that in the parlor will do a-while longer if you'll only have the piano tuned), off to some beggars' auction-of course you do, and won't forget those young half-breed, Japan and sheet-iron waiters either I Then there's that antique gem of the kind, the one you know that-ahem, it's an ugly word, and as you are going to reform.-you mean to, don't you?-why, I won't say it; though how you ever did get off scot free with such a treasure, I'm sure I can't divine; but you'll send it right back to the. plain of Shinar, won't you? The one I mean that was made out of Mrs. Noah's two old worn-out dustpans, spliced together in the middle. And not a bad idea that of the maker, nicking off the four corners to give it somewhat of an octagonal air, though it's a pity his " sodder" all " give out," so that he had to leave them all standing "every which way for Sun- day," it gives it such a reckless, "torn-down" appear- ance ; or if you don't like to " acknowledge the corn," and think Mr. Layard won't care, just hand it over to me, and I'll do my best to get it to the World's Fair, spite of all the Barnums in existence. But don't let P. G. have it, whatever you do, for he'd be certain to label it "Master Tubal-Gain's first specimen, made out of Mrs. Eve's camp-kettle (though we all know it's a much more modern affair), put it- in a glass case, and give it an alligator, cobra, rattlesnake, and boa con- strictor, for a guard of honor to keep it safe out of reach of all the antiquaries in the world; and you know I gc against humbugging the public, and don't even approve 3:     58       FAMLY PAPERS AND of your calling yours " a first class hotel," when (" faith of honest man ") I did'nt see any thing "first class" there, unless it was the PRICEs-and they were about up to the very tallest--and that magnificent old cock- roach, and. really I shouldn't wonder if he was G(rand Patriarch of the whole tribe! "STEAMBOATS and sea-sarpints," why, what's the matter now? I'm sure I haven't said any thing par- ticular -not even told what a city with a beautiful name you live in! Don't flare up so, man alive, you might pitch into a collapse or on to a snag ; and, besides, what sort of behavior is this, when I'm talking to you in such a fatherly kind of way? Don't you know " it hurts me a great deal worse than it does you, and it's allfor your own good, and you'll thank me for it some day," as Mrs. Doctor Birch used to tell her hopeful progeny, when taking them through a course of the tallest kind of sprouts; and for which good service not the first one of the ungrateful little wretches ever has thanked her to this day, that ever I could learn? But don't you imitate their naughty example, for if you dfi't go right home and strike your colors down to half-mast, or run up your accommodations to high-, water hark about the quickest, all the world will know you have a great deal more impudence and less ignorance than I give you credit for! CRABTREE AP CRAB', 1st Lictor.   PROMSING PATRON. SAYS Maecenas the little, I'm very profound, Though to shallow-pate Euclid I do condescend, But with foot in the clouds, caput vast on the ground, This sublimity mia, need never unbend! As PATRON I'll call and subscribe though-provided Stultissima femince will have the said call- Not now, but some day when the thing is decided Past doubt--ten dimes isn't much, but my heart is sc small! LADY LACKLAND, 2d Lictor. LAY SERMON TO PRIEST AND PRELATE. BY LADY LACKLAND, SECOND LICTOR. "I was sick, and ye visited me."--MATT. xxv. 86. HAS your Reverence the Doctor or Pastor, your Right Reverence the Bishop, done this ; or has he, in the opin- ion of the impartial, sullied the purity of his lawn with the stain of worldliness, by acting " to the grief of those whom God hath wounded?" Should a Christian man return evil for good? Should a gentleman insult, either by neglect or overt indignity, a lady, and his equal?-one never accus- tomed, from birth, education, or life-long association, to weigh the dictate of conscience in the balance of expe- diency ; and, consequently, little qualified-despite some  60       FAMLY PAPERS AND reverses that would have crushed a parvenu spirit bach to its plebeian level--to tolerate moral cowardice in posi tions which might (if they do not) enable the incum- bent to act promptly and rightly, without first consult- ing a rent-roll or barometer of caste. Should a man of the world, knowing the world's maxim, nemo me inpune lacessit, and himself, evi- dently, "a man of like weakness and passions with others," venture, while adopting, unconsciously per- haps, her brief clerical portrait, and accepting her gift, to turn round and smite the giver too rudely on the one cheek, in the presumptuous hope that she alone of all the world would, by the grace of God, evince "that meek and quiet spirit which turns the other also?" Should a humane man-aware that though " the spirit of a man may sustain his infirmity, yet a wounded spirit who can bear?"--do this, when the naturally keen susceptibilities of the woman had become morbidly sensitive by severe and long protracted mental and physical torture? Should a prudent man, a mere denizen of earth, CC earthy," and no Ithuriel seated on a sunbeam, hold himself more scathless from a wo- man's pen, than did Napoleon in his hour of prime? Should a politic, worldly-wise man, even, so wantonly dissipate that " odor of superior sanctity," that prestige of an unction from on high, on which his social as well as sacerdotal supremacy, so preeminently rests? Above all, should the disciple esteem himself so much "'wiser than his Master, or greater than his Lord,' that he can venture to offend his " little ones," that he ,can contemn the plain ritual of his instructions, pro-   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       61 claiming what is that religion " which is pure and unde. filed before God and the Father "-that he can dare to say, I will not, when the Great Shepherd says, FEED MY SHEEP?"J And, finally, is it meet that "He, by whose stripes we are healed," should be again stricken and wounded in the house of his friends--that He whose kingdom "is not of this world," should be thus publicly mocked and insulted by his own "Ambassadors" flaunting the livery of "the god of this world" in his face, vaunting his maxims and outstripping his own votaries in the race, w till the profane world itself is shocked, and turns round to inquire, not " what do ye more," but "why do ye WORSE than others?" CHARITY. Latest style and most orthodox p attern, for pious Mrs. Plutus to read a Newo Publication through, decline the purchase, and in- sult the author with the offer of "DONATIONS I " A HORSEMAN comes with boot and spur, My lord returns him thanks with speed : "' And wherefore so, most noble sir?" " Because you did not bring your steed!" A reason good, why I should thank  This opera-going a-per! She read, 'tis true, but to be frank, She did not steal-the type and paper! LADY LACKLAND, 2d Lictor. J,     62       FAMLY PAPERS AND P. S. "How honest grows the city queen," (So Crab', a saucy South, maintains) "Bodies she used to take, I ween, But now she only takes the brains!" L. L. NEW BROOM. SUCH a dust! Needn't think to throw it in my eyes though ; don't put her glamour on me, I'll promise, if she has got " the evil eye!"My poor aunt BETSEY! who would have thought it? I won't believe it any how!-No, there never was any room under that old beaver for ia. bee in the bonnet,"-she's beitched her, that's certain!  ; I see you don't believe it-'how should you?  You haven't caught her--her with Uncle Sam's commission in her pocket,-and a better or wiser he never made, for never were-such'another office and incumbent so exactly fitted to each other,-going about to disgrace herself and me, by consorting with-you dont know how it hurts me to expose my venerated relative, but the truth must come-with a poetizer! Oh, you may shake your head, but it's no use; I'd wag mine all day if it would do any good, or drive off this new waif of hers, the impudent minx, to set plain, straightforward words all a crabbing--cruikshanking de- cent English into doggerel-and then bring me in, r art and part," to such atrocities! May rhyming seize me, if I don't believe it was this very harp-y herself   b, X t OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.         43 that set the brother ghouls, elves, and jackals, on the trail of poor lost Mr. Dick, and " between you and me and the gate post,'" haven't a doubt she made way with my respected aunt's excellent old specs, lest she should put a stop to her own infamous proceedings! Now, not a purse-proud old dotard can presume to make a fool of himself, but he's down in a proclamation, and up in a pillory--not a supercilious editor ignore the difference between not being prepared and "not being called upon," not a son of a decimal refuse a lady a trivial act of common civility, and keep her waiting in the hot sun "bothering" about a few fractions of percentage till she faints outright,--not a- lord spirit- ual" or a " lord temporal," nor even a fancied nob (and pitiful snob), the veriest scum thrown up by the seeth- ing elements of society, can neglect the amenities or outrage the humanities ; but she's down upon him with a sermon or squib, just as if our respectable firm was nothing more than a regular varse factory, where they turned out poetry to order!  And such po-e-try, ye gods, only listen! "A new-fledged author does her utmost to be civil, (Most people worship still the Spirit of all EviD, Yet you're ' not called upon to praise or blame,' you say I And were you to be rude, sir chivalry, I pray?" There's Scripture measure for you, and again- A rose by any other name would smell as sweet'- It might, if one could trust his own especial nose; But Shakspeare, dear, that does not prove it right or meet, To call each dry, old, crabbed stick, by name of RosE 1 "     "        FAMLY PAPERS AND No more it don't, and how edifying that must be to all innate intelligences who " don't care to read any more  (and never did read any before), though I've known people that liked to hear something newz occa- sionally ; but isn't this rich? ' L My Lady Lackland's gone deranged, they say! ' A quiz, you may be sure, what proof, I pray? j ' Too much, alas! the case is very plain- She thought to find a gentleman in WAYNE! ' "Rich," of course it is ; but you see she's- got no more conscience than a corporation dittle enough, for that matter, to set up half a dozen of them, it's my be- lief), so if a word happens to suit rhyme, or measure, down it goes ; and if it chances to mystify the, reader, so much the better, for she's taken up an absurd crotchet, that fa/"rt)elong to the public, names to the owners, as if the first mother's son could ever relish the most ill- natured epigram  ever seen, if it didn't take off his own particular; so you'll have to find out by your learning whose particular withers are wrung, or whether "Ken- tucky " means, Khamschadtka or Kham-Tartary in this PROCLAMATION   EXTRAORDINARY. "Ho!" fair sister States, Kentucky sends greeting, And fopling of fifty or sixty, with care; He " lives upon Love," (and other good eating, For the boy-god himself couldn't dine upon air); But the urchin slipped off, a bride was his aim, And he didn't count less than three strings to his bow, To "half court" each lass, " then choose " was the game, And he's out-but, sunny, your mother does know 1   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.         65 And fair-play's a jewel, so lest some mistake - Cause bellehood to fall by the shaft of your bow, I've ordered a limner some charcoal to take, And sketch, my fine lark, your full portrait below. i- Fu1 length of one who'l guzzled, while abusing good honest milk jii  as "chalk, sugar and water," and boasted that he could marry any girl in Kentucky. An ancient Adonis, and sleek-looking calf, Needs chalk, &c., just to relish his tea:  He's able to buy, but too stingy by half, So-" a penny, please sir, pray give it to me!" Ye kind-hearted landlords, just grant him his prayer, But don't board him a day unless he'll agree To pay without grumbling at least double fare, For you'll have to fork over good rations for three. The belles of -Kebtuck all worship this star, Though he dyes his gray hair, as most ev'ry one knows; Yet still he consents to wed '" on the squar'"  So look to your blinds, there he eaves-dropping goes. Such charms must attract; so he writes himself down, And dreams of a wife, not that beauty should dare To think and to say .that this " man about town ' tHas ears very long, and heart of hardware. Done at the old stamping-ground, under our hand and seal. EENTUOKIANA. After that state secretaryship no common mortal would have compromised dignity by ever looking at any thing short of a president, nabob, or governor, at the very lowest; but listen :- I .  "A Yankee So-so and STUFFED-FROG of dimensions, (Both dukes you may know in 'high life below stairs,') w     "        FAMLY PAPERS AND  Talk loud of their 'big men,' with knowing pretensions, And look, like two little ones-putting on airs!" She's -clearly not f canny," and what does she next but get DEATH AND DECIMAL IN A QUANDARY.  "'I'm puzzled,' says Death, what to do with his soul, Or the Gripe-all's career had long since been run; Why the petrified heart might fatten a ghoul, And for soul-bless your life he never had one! "But his dimes, oh, his dimes I how shall I contrive, For the son of a gnome won't budge from his ore?' Place a mint over Styx and in he will dive, Cliarge Charon a fee, and win ' a fip more! ' "The plan's very good, but friend Plutus maintains That he never zoill trust that mortal alive- With nothing but brass in the locale of brains- - Who with gods and with men such bargains would drive " "Of Queen City, then, let Sir Saveall beware, Or she'll use him up quite-bones, bristles, and all,  i For he's very well ' smoked ' (though tough), and with care His parchment will serve-any purpose that's small." Oh, a very vigilant and impartial officer is she, past  i a doubt, nothing too high for her impudence or low for her notice ; but I'm not going to be gibbeted in rhyme, or hung in hexameters or Hexhamheaths, whichever'it is, because I don't know father from son! And if slie wants introduction to one Captain Scalplock, just let her offer to string "long-winded" into metre, or come scouting about down in "the nation" here, where I'm studying the art of slow torture under the illustrious old   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        67 sachem PINESPLINTERS, with an C eye single" to the benefit of insolent old gaberlunzies, eternally bawling out BREVITY, with their mouths all full of supereroga- tion, as if their readers would ever know the thing by sight, or the fee-simple of all palaver belonged to them; and other people were bound to talk out of their die tionaries, and had never a grammar of their own, or any right to put wit in five columns because they can put stupidity in six! If so very anxious to see the myth, why don't they look into the retort where some fool-for-his-pains distils their atoms of idea from infinity of vapor? Do they expect a candidate for the first honors of bush-fight to march up one line of " ordinary" and down .another, enfilade a whole chevaux-de-frise of critics, and bring up against a blank wall of incomprehensibility ; just as if he couldn't dodge them as well as encyclopcedias, turn their flanks, spike their guns, rifle their stores, and scatter their munitions of war, whenever he chose? If they do, they've missed--that's all! CRABTREE AP CRAB', 1st Lictor. WHAT A BOOK MGHT BE GOOD FOR. "'TWERE no sort of use, for I never do read I " Quite likely, Sir Coattail,* of genus called "flash ;" * "The race of men is almost extinct; the majority are nothing but coattails walking behind a moustache."--FANY FERN.     68      M FAMLY PAPERS AND But then your sweet self is the subject I need, To witness how well I can lay on the lash: So bide a wee now, and I'll presently show How great were the use in your situation'; 'For books, it is proved, as all men should know, Are "elements" good of "CIV-IL-I-ZA-TION!" LADY LACKLAND, 2d4Lictor. CAP FOR HEADS THAT FIT. "SPONTANEOUS PRODUCTIONS/. says Cheatem to Niel, "Men nXay take for their need, as onward they pass "- "Thin, holy St. Patrick, this country, I feel, Has PLANTS rather rare of that very same class, That grow without culture in wild-field and wood- Since books and umbrellas 'tis no harm to steal, They come up, in coorse, for the commonwealth's good!" LADY LACKLAND, 2d Lictor. PUFFS AND PUFFERS. BLANK, BLANK. HAVING examined this work a la critic, that is, felt of the paper, looked at the type, title-page, finale and binding, our opinion is, that another of the "green 'uns" has given us a book, which any one may purchase that likes, though we don't choose to read.   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.      69 X:   Now that's very like what I call swindling! Do you know, sir, that that very book cost the author cash, if not brains? And what right have you, Scissor Snip- pings, Esq., more than any other man, to appropriate he same without some sort of equivalent? Are you sure the poor wretch went bootless and napless, if not cold and hungry, to bed, in order to pay you that tri- bute?   Who told you the lady wasn't peer of the proudest, that her wedding ring gilt the offering to your :  hand? You might have been hoaxed! Suppose now you hadn't, after all, such an unquestionable right to the homage, without giving so much even as a nod of receipt in return? Just imagine, my lord premier or lady patroness, naming you to brilliant beauty as Mr. the accomplished gull, who silently accepts the charity of author's brains, or tells a tantalized public they lie on his table, delighted heiress responding, "it knew    very well they did'nt lien the crown of his hat "-only think of it! And you, too, you irreclaimable "Softs," will you never rebel?  How long must you be trod like the worm before you can " turn upon power?" How long will you help Humbug of Tripod shovel clods on your own coffin? How long will you plunge in his Balaam profound, whence no light flashes up from the fathom- less dunce-depths? There's enough of you, in all con- science; if you'd only stand up for your rights, refuse to be hung before you are tried, and buried before you are dead, you might get justice and quid pro quo, as well as other folks. You BRAVYES squaws, I tell, you, all Rquaws!! :     70         FAMLY PAPERS AND Here, Lady Lack*, come smoke me the moths that fret out the fibres of these delicate, spiritual, spiritless little gossamer wings.  Crab', the haughty old savage, vows he won't hunt any such pitiful pests.' "Old Tomahawk's right, better blood he should draw, The meanness of theirs would infect the north star; The game in this chase is beneath an old squaw, Toad, magpie or crawfish were nobler by far! 'Tis an insect of Tripods Humboldt wouldn't class, So authors come on, this task must be ours; The defaulter's there, right in front of the glass, With 'line' and fair promise-his critique, ye powers, No man ever saw, though the swindler don't fail To boast and to hide all his quiddam honore- (If 5tis honor and wit, don't grudge the I black mail,' For man, I am sure, never needed it more.) No diamond of genius can Tinseltop prize, Gilt and vellumn he'll have, whatever befall; The helpless and poor Uppertenny espies, And sponges with pleasure a largesse from all, But one Conscientious, well knowing no bays Could survive, in the germ, his flattering line, Don't sully its leaf with the breath of his praise, That slime of the worm on the statue so fine! I' Bravo, Lady Lack'! High time these old " censors '" were censorized!--had it all their own way a long time--" sauce for the goose, sauce for the gander,"'- "Poor rule that won't work both ways?' "-never mind the hornets. BETSEY TROTWOOD, Censor. I   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       71 MRS. GRUNDY AND EASTERN EDITOR TO SOUTHERN AUTHOR. BUY Southern born thought! That were treason indeed To rebel in arms, "aid and conmfort" at least; If you'd only die off perhaps we might read Pelf's good for us Pubs, and ALL masters down East, You vassals don't know, when 'twill do to be pleased; But starve as you ought, and for genius is fit, Prestissimo then, how your work will be seized- Some Yankee goose quill giving gracious permit. In mean time remember, if still you will write, That never a courtier his fortunes did mend Who wilfully stood in his own very light, Daring farther than king, his bow shaft to send! SOUTHERN    AUTHOR TO  VIRS. GRUNDY. My charming old woman, I hear what you say, For croaking lord Tripods don't heed them at all  Though they'd do very well to keep out of way, The safest place always for things that are small; But stand by for once, and see " the fair play,"' If you value their heads as much as " the tin,"-- Now Tripod, my dear, don't set up a squawl i You've kept us all out, for many a day; But dead or alive, I am bound to "' come in," And 'tis pity to waste good powder and ball. LADY LACKLAND, 2d Lictor.     72        FAMLY PAPERS AND VALENTINE FOR THE LOUISVILLE JOURNAL. (LOST OR MSLAID BY ORIGINAL CONSIGNEE.) M[R. EDITOR :--              / If that sectarian clapperclawing in the Louisville papers is " a free fight, count me in for a few licks ;" and if your readers see more impiety in Saladin's scimetar than Richatd's battleaxe, or any one fails to see that a man may occasionally write en infidel, for the better edification of belligerent orthodoxy, without being a regular Turk, or worse Christian than his neighbors, then much joy may he have of his stupidity--it's a very happifying agency-my far-famed models, the distin- guished Braves, Hurl-the-tomahawk, and Lig ht-the- splinters, never could have victimized him-let him thank God and take courage, for he has abundant rea- son. Yours, CRABTREE AP CRAB', 1st. Lictor, And heir-apparent to that beautiful old scatter-gun  of the accomplished chief, MSS-THE-TARGET. f COOKASAW BLUFFS, Feb. 14th, 1854. MR. PRENTICE:-  I'm astonished at you! Have you never seen my Aunt Betsey's Inaugural? If not, so much the worse for you, the law expects every man to know it (except the lawyers), but here it is : f   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.         73 "INKHORNS, POUNDTEXTS, COMPOSITIONSTIOKSS: "ATTENTION, all of you! Try and keep quiet, and walk a chalk, will you? I've got something else to do besides following you up all the while to keep you from making perfect sillies of yourselves; but just let me catch you playing the fool with your 'little-go,' stirring up, and perverting President Pierce's twenty-six battalions any where-in this republic of letters, and see if I'm not down upon ou with rod and lictor t BETSEY TROTWOOD, Censor. - March 41L, 1853." Well now you see what authority you're indicted under, and needn't go to putting on that innocent, don't crnozo nothin', haven't done nothin' sort of look, unless you want to be taught after the manner of the men of Succoth "c with the briers and thorns of the wilderness," for you know well enough you have! But what has come over you? Is there such a " mil- dew in the lapse of a few miserable years" that you can't be the same genial, whole-hearted, magnanimous soul you used to be? Once, when some hungry " vally- de-sham," under-scullion, or out-door sub of a by-gone dynasty, cried lustily for " more pap " in behalf of his famishing wife and children, then who but you was the very first man to come forward, declaring that although constitutionally and teetotally opposed to that kitchen cabinet and the whole menage, you could not and would not harden your heart against such pathetic appeals to charity; and forthwith set up a contribution-box, and reported " a brass button, rusty nail, and pewter pap- spoon " as the result of your humane exertions?  Now -and " oh what a fall is there my countrymen "-PI'm actually afraid to -trust you with this little bit to a 4     74       FAMLY PAPERS AND bridle king Solomon long since prescribed; though if long ears would only bray any where else it wouldn't much signify; but here in the newspaper, your news- paper that has in the main set them a'much better example,: it's a little too bad, indeed " our sufferings is intolerable!" Without wishing to broach any new heresy, or flatter you in the least, I must say, that all things considered, newspapers are, I think, rather an item in modern liter- ature, and on the whole I like some of them. Am, in short, a good deal indebted to one or two for my exten- sive knowledge of men and things in general--at least that is my impression, though if any man chooses to be contentious, I don't wish to be too positive, if the know- ing ones insist that I might have risen to be first Lictor, been just as wise, and written quite as well without ever having seen one, perhaps I might, they ought to know best; still newspapers are good to read and light cigars, and I am good to read and smoke them. I don't pre- tend to explain the cause of that either-perhaps I haven't got the time, perhaps I should be off skylarking  at something else if I had-I've known people to do the like before--but time was, when, by edging carefully   I round the grand achievements, I could even venture to look into a religious (beg pardon) sectarian paper of a Sunday without catching the Polemics, which I take to be one of the worst distempers that can infect any com- munity ; now if I can take a bird's eye peep, at yours of a week day, without being seduced into castigating Ather people's faults instead of mending my own, it's as * No allusion to the Ward trials.-SEc.   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        75 ,much. And here you begin to get an inkling of my grievance and your misdemeanor, but only an inkling, mind you, I'm too much in a hurry (witness nly speed) for any thing else ; a fact I mention for your encourage- ment, because you might, you know, get uneasy lest I was about to " speak my speech " and be off. No, no, C mine ancient," it's out of fashion now, and ' with all your faults I love you still" too well for that; and besides it takes my aunt Betsey, who hasn't the advantage of being a half-breed and knowing how to shoot all round the tree, and from every leaf and thorn of a crabtree chapporal, to do those sort of things. I hold, it a useless waste of raw material when the value of an article (I'll take this one out in advertising) is measured by the yard; but honestly and soberly, we poor-sinners do have hard measure dealt out to us every way. If we don't go to church, or trouble ourselves about such things at all, then' we are a set of hardened repro- bates or graceless Gallios; if we do, it's as like as not only to see our betters do the devotions, hear that their Maker is going to take them to heaven in spite of them- selves, and send us to perdition because we can't get there in spite of him, for all of which we are exhorted to love him very dearly, and praise him devoutly, be cause he has made us to hate him most cordially and be punished everlastingly. And then these judges elect -quite enamored with the prospect of sitting on our cases hereafter, and as much incensed at seeing their meaning evoked from general expansion into visual     76       FAMLY PAPERS AND angle,--must needs practice sentencing and tormenting us before the time. They have humbugged us out of our Almanac, banned the dance, outlawed the theatre, confiscated the decanter, and stolen our novels, and all this we have borne; but when it comes to lading violent hands on our newspaper, the secular newspaper, then we say hands off! We don't presume to lay our ungodly fingers on your righteous columns, we don't need to be told that flippancy can't answer, nothing short of acri- mony can pass muster there, we are cast out of the synagogue, but this curbstone Is OURS! And now we say to you, keep out of our " broad road " if you don't want to be bespattered-don't rub your lawn against our sackcloth and then smite us if you get defiled, don't reflect your thoughts and acts both on our sensorium and then turn black in the face, if we show them up daguerreotyped in words; for verily we of the " profane" are shocked at your insolent, all-patronizing, lord-para- mount airs, of having religions made to order, as if the Almighty had nothing else to do but match his ethics to your politics! Above all, don't bring any more of your " brotherly love " to our market,-we know exactly what it's worth, for we've seen enough of it, we have. If you fancy these amiable little family bickerings, why can't you amuse yourselves among yourselves, without tampering with our especial? If made over to you in fee-simple, he could only teach, never learn you, how to wield a  polished, knightly lance ; but does mortal man suppose his readers could be " sold " by that little gem of a "pious fraud" of yours?  That transparent effort   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       " to throw on a rival church, the odium of denying an un- popular dogma, in the face of evidence enough per contra to sink a ship? Did true man ever so blacken the fair fame of his own beloved, with the reflected stain of such gratuitous and most mendacious poltroonery? Of course not ; hurra then, for the valiant volunteer, the gallant little bravewho undertakes to run the gauntlet, encoiled in rope enough to tie him hand and foot, and throw him to the Choctaws! But oh, Mr. Prentice, Mr. Prentice!" call you this a backing of your friends,"-is this the way you suffer them to write 'themselves down?  I'm afraid you've been contaminating your fingers with their " vile bribes," -yet no,-you surely haven't fallen quite so low as all that, at least I shall never offer you any such base in- dignity, for if you haven't taken final leave of all dis- cernment, as well as human sympathy, you must see it would be putting the change in the wrong pocket this time; if you have, remember the sad doom of one Sammy  Houston, and  "consider yourself REPRI- MANDED!" But why didn't you let me know you were in want of stupid articles? If ever you get out again, just tele- graph down our way, and it shall go hard, but I'll send you a whole dozen of my best opaque, rather than, you should lack a foil to your wit, or I the pleasure of see- ing it flash and glitter through the clear obscure. Theirs are no use, you know yourself 'twould be more than your life is worth, to dare draw that two-edged sword of yours on one of them ; but do pray tell me, what is to become of the poor children who have, it seems, got a     78       FAMLY PAPERS AND most unpopular-odox Sunday School book that is read- able without threat or promise (whose munificent. fulfil- ment they'd be apt to remember ever after as often as they thought upon nothing), and was ever, so lucky a man; as the Reverend Author? To be sure the smell of so much ecclesiastical pitch does rather make a poor old fogy of a red skin sigh for the "good old times." "' TALK, talk," he says, "'no good, PINE SPLINTERS bery much good; but I'm resolved what I'll do-I'll turn author too!" Talent's nothing, tact is all-it's only " to hold on like grim death " to my share of the family papers and official documents, steal the balance, give the whole some rickety-cranky, outlandish, impudent title, throw in a few rounds of grape and canister at somebody's particu- lar Ism, get some of its great guns to fulminate me into notoriety, and my fortune's made ;-provided I don't make a mistake and "wake up the, wrong passenger!" In that case I shall have to explain to all the Altissinmas Sanctissimas, privately, that it's a mere ruse dde  guerre, or complimentary salute in disguise; and when the "lesser lights" comprehend, that it is, in fact, a tacit admission of their potency, they can't in conscience be very implacable at a little financiering blunder, when all the world must know, that if practice had the small- pox, principle never need be in danger, or in other words, that "religion is one thing, and business another." CRABTREE AP CRAB', 1st Lictor.   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        79 PROXY LECTURE. Of the "angeliferous"Mrs. Henpeek,(wIFE of her daughter's suitor, and much vexed at having to confess to "Specs ")on the " sin " of L. L.'s self-sustaining effort. DON'T writhe any more, don't offer to rise, Such efforts are shocking to good Christian eyes! They must pain you, I'm sure, why don't you desist? If once out of sight, you'd be happily missed ; And consider, 'tis sinful to struggle again, Say layman and priest, the kind-hearted men, For since you. are killed, you had much better die; Indeed, you mnight yet if you only would try. It's your duty I'm sure-the Potters-field's nigh; So quit all this breathing, and stark and stiff lie  ( Not die till gour time?"-that is very malign, For to feelings like mine, exquisitely fine, 'Tis distressing to hear I4ow sadly you sigh, And my eye's getting dim-n now don't make me cry, But "look to the Lord," and soar up on high. Quick, quick! I entreat, should the callous come by, They'd care very little, above or below, But send you right off--where they're like to go I What an angel we are, just dropped from the sky, And how saintly we talk, says Cynic close by; But should fortune yet make some turn in her wheel, Compelling the heartless in their turn to feel, And sleep in an alms-house, or matches to cry, Perhaps they would think it less sinful to try, And if human I keep, will endeavor to buy. LADY LACKLAND, 2d Lictor.     80       FAMLY PAPERS AND NOMNALS ONLY. SUCH mystics, such mystics! as some I havle seen, "Ancient Henry " must pass in his lodge, I ween! If a poor fainting wretch is struggling to stand, The pocket, they know, is the place for the hand; If he needs any help, why just let him call, And they'll stand out of reach, and leave him to fall; When down in the ditch, he'll tumble no lower, And boot-toes can show him the " other side " shore I If St. John were to vow he had a good claim, They'd vow to St. John that it was a great shame; And Archangel Gabriel his book needn't touch- Several entries of his mightn't please overmuch! Dark " spots on the sun " are these children of night,--  "A stain like a wound " on its spirit of light;  For if it has much of Esprit du corps,         'i It worships the right, TRUTH, and mercy, still more. True Mystics have souls, the Hybrids have none Worth seeking at all when the grand race is run. In Hybrid's own town the former are rare;  For-genius or justice the last do not care, And of Masonry's self large draughts it would take Those nominals there half human to make ; A Millerite tract is the height of their ken, And juleps, gauds, cards, suit Fanny Fern's men. oh'l   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.          81 "Once there was an old woman," the parrots all cry- (The myth, it is thought, was the ghost of a lie,) And their " yarns" of false claims are true as Jack's bean- impostors, I'm certain, were never so green. ' Fine TALK they may make," says the world standing by "But for BROTEERLY LOVE, it's 'all in my eye;'" So since Mrs. Grundy has caps " wide awake," And watches each turn of the brilliant opaque, With demi-surmise, that its secret consists In donning the armor and shunning the lists, They'd do well to see that its credit's at stake, And some little to show, for appearance's sake; For broad mystic mantle must trail in the dust, When its ancient folds screen the false to their trust!'  LADY LACKLAND, 2d Lictor. * No allusion, per7-ps, to enlightened casuists, who consider it a Christian duty to outrage and vilify stupid impostors who cannot see how funds solemnly pledged to a specific purpose can be honestly reappropriated, or absorbed without leave or license, be the exi- gence what it mayj if left per force of the merest casualty tempo- rarily accessible; and none of course to retrospective legislation and other ingenious expedients for ignoring claims, and neglecting if not insulting claimants even when seeking merely " aid and com- fort," not alms. But if dignified officials, like Miss Betsey Trot- wood's LIOTOE, can't behave magnanimously, like king Lion when he saw what it was that was braying after him, but must needs descend to personalities, and defining positions like any Uncle Sam's mouthpiece; or feel bound by tenure of office, to expose injustice and castigate insignificance for the good of the public and the honor of their livery, then we insist that the thing shall be fairly understood, and no unwarrantable pretensions based on that hono. rary condescension hereafter. And so, by Lady Lackland's leave,     82        FAMLY PAPERS AND "GHT FROM ON HGH. ON SEEING A FAIR SOFT LOOK OF HAIE, TAKEN FOR A bWDOWED MOTHER FROM THE GRAYE OF AN ONLY SON, THRTEEN MONTHS BURIED. SHE missed it, oh, she'd missed it long, That buried lock of youth's bright hair ; It came, a glory, joy, and song, A waving light on summer air; But orange groves wore deeper night, For death had deck'd him in its wave,' Yet woman's love, and sorrow's might, Have won this trophy from the grave. Oh thing of human life and breath, Oh waving plume from angel's brow, Type of the life that knows not death, Light of two worlds is on thee now I          : Gushes of song from seraph chords,            1; Redeeming love are echoing here; And thoughts too fine for mortal words Are floating round the spirit's ear. we are not going to have any seven cities set together by the ears, for this nettle wreath she's flung down for all whom it may concern to scramble after,--no, not if we have to toss it over in plain prose, to live sundries at C. in geographical, not moral, boundaries of Kentucky. They, in turn, must not begrudge a leaf or so to such other " individuals " as may feel unjustly over- looked or set aside ia the disposition of these touching souvenirs. -NOTE per Sec.   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       83 Oh human love, oh Christian faith, How bright ye blend in woman's tear; "MY soN-my son!" that mourner saith, "I've found the lost, they buried here. "My lost is found! All pitying one, That mortal pang is laid to rest; Past is all doubt, my son, my son, I see thee on thy Saviour's breast!' God cheer thee, mother, thou hast given A gem to light a holier shrine; And earth has many stars of Heaven That need such guiding hand as thine. L. L. ONLY A SLIGHT DIFFERENCE. A BEDSTEAD of iron had PROCRUSTES of old, And limbs stretched, or lopped, till they fitted, I'm told  PROCRUSTES the Modern, quite civilized grown, In GOTHAM sets up his " respectable " throne ;- Not honor or Truth will he have for its base, But choice Punicfaitz--the classic old grace. No axes has he, gold is vastly more nice To hack and to hew human souls in his vise; Racks, gauntlets and drills must be very fine sport, For never had despot so loyal a court! No step of a freeman, his chaplains dare take, Calls, Sunday by proxy, they do dare to make;     84   -    FAML  PAPERS AND  Pattern-subjects are they, worth sketching for fame--  If the artist sketch well, they'll know by his name. King's'So So'you'll find on abundance of tools, (They're lying all round in the liv'ry of fools) He breathes on the heart, and they smile as his knife, Improves in its turn, ev'ry comfort from life, Or sigh o'er life's victims, their sorrows and sin, (When they're quite out of reach, or wear a black skin,) And mourn o'er the heathen, their blindness and  wrongs-  If the heathen comes in, they pick up the tongs. Ten commandments engraved on tables of stone,? Less incumbent they hold than etiquette's one,  And Death mean to distance, by dashing on "fastV"-P  AVERNUS is nothing, ELYSIUM means CASTE! Nobility knows itself noble ; but hard  Its spuriac struggles to show it, by card ;  And from modesty, pure, is forced into lies,  Where gentlemanly instinct ought to suffice;   And if summoned to heav'n, would lackey send in  To see if 'twere all "point device" to a pin-  Like people, like priest, "Sword " { conquers the wh ol0 And stretches the conscience, and lopps off the soul. LADY LACKLAND, 2d Lictor. * Gold is the old man's sword, and how they do hack and hew withal!- Old Noel.    OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        85 ANY THNG FOR A TEXT. ANY THNG FOR A TEXT. "Gives improper publicity to a family quarrel." Reputed Critique on "RUTH HALL.1" OH, a "Family quarrel" is there?     Well, that's NEWS--the innocent Mr. Public will be immensely scan- dalized, for he knows, "A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city;" but "'MOTHER, is that D-O-D," or only one of the burning and shining lights of that tongs-and-telescope philanthropy, "Which sighs o'er life's victims, their sorrows and sin, When they're quite out of reach, or wear a black skin; And mourns o'er the heathen, their blindness and wrongs, But if heathen compes in, just picks up the tongs?" Don't begin to know, or care, who you are, Mr. Ice- berg Supercilious, any more than I know for certain who, or what Fanny Fern is, or am green enough to suppose she's any nearer to precisely what you or she represent, than she would be less likely than you, master "Hyacinth," or any other honorable member of the "mutual admiration (or vituperation) society," to turn up her nose at a new competitor; but any thing for a text, you know-she and your critique will do, for want of better. And now, don't you feel your moral sense and per- 8onal dignity (two parts self-conceit, one part code conventionaD a little outraged, and your propriety pulse a little quickened, by her telling how nicely Aquafortis swallows Uppertenny's sugar-plums, and straightway becomes eau-de-sucre?   Rather audacious   86       FAMLY PAPERS AND of her, that's a fact, considering that you're one of the high priests of respectability, that awful Juggernaut invented to crush all truth and reason and common sense out of humanity ; not " a man of like weakness and passions with others," at all, at all; but then you know there was a rebellion in heaven once so it wouldn't be the very first, if some reckless hair-brain of the Guerilla corps should throw bombs and torpedoes, not devotees, under your wheels. The old car has, on the whole, made pretty respectable progress, indeed I may as well own, quite flattering, but one WASHNGTON once said, " that if defeated in the lowlands, he should cross over the Alleghanies!" Well, the Alleghanies are there still, I take it, and it must be discouraging, very, to see whole armies of interrogation-points popping away at you for every individual impertinence you can put down. I actually  , do pity you, for how mortified you must have been (knowing Adam's sons to be your brethren), when they would keep repeating "How   Is THS?" when Fanny Fern, the existence, was so unequivocally claimed and  proclaimed, by one of the very last to recognize Fanny Fern the chrysalis. Had Eve's daughters had half as much undignified curiosity, their mouths and eyes had all been propped wide open too, with exclamations; for really it was ' passing strange,"-considering that for erring woman there is no forgiveness or redemption this : side the grave-that one, who " didn't 'LOSE HER RELA- TIONS ' till she lost her own self-respect," (you know you said it, some of you, and so do I,) should be thus pub- j licly and voluntarily reinstated in the family register.    OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       87 I know, too, how gladly you'd "help the Lord kill Jemmy," Jenny, and every mother's son and daughter bent on getting to the root of Fern Leaves, whether it enures to her or your glorification, or not; but it's "no use," you might pull out all their tongues, chop off all their pens and right hands, and they'd still con- trive some way to make them work, and evince that "my daughter Floy " hadn't so entirely engrossed all "vivid imagination," that they couldn't fancy a hun- dred disgraceful things implied in a woman's loss of her OWn  s SELF-RESPECT." Were fancy any less likely than fact, to put "a little too much red in the brush," it would of course be very ungenerous to sketch the moral portrait of a dying enemy even, indeed I could not, for when God lays on his hand, mine is off; and otherwise it's by no means certain I should think him worth the powder and shot it would take to riddle him; but the converse being true, and it being also said (and never disputed that I know) that "Earth has no pang like love to hatred turned, Or hell a fury, like a woman scorned," you may cry "Hush " and "Bis-till," till you're hoarse, nobody cares. Fanny knows very well what kept up the Fern epidemic, and you can't silence the voice of inquiry, or annihilate the instinct of self-preservation. The "blue hen's chickens" will do their own scratching, ' any way you can fix it," and who are you, any how, Mr. Would-be-cock-of-the-walk, that you should think to prevent it?     88       FAMLY PAPERS AND Oh, an editor, eh! Well, that's no great things-- we might have been an editor too, once upon a time, and no promotion either, could we only have made up our minds (" we" have a right to at least two) to say, "Brother Tripod " to the likes of you, when it often goes so very hard with us to put "Dear Sir " at the beginning of a letter, and " r-e-s-c-t-l-y," at the end, J -knowing all the while that we don't mean any such thing; but seeing we are just as good as one of the craft, (rather better it's to be hoped than " lots of them,") and abundantly able to put you through, with or without 'the dignificado, or Lindley Murray's leave when to take it up or lay it down, you might just as well own up and be done with it. Come now, you set yourself up to enlighten " out- side barbarians," be honest once, (" you know you never was afore,") and tell a body what it really does take, more than two or three judicious failures, or one splendid defalcation, and the otium cum dignitate of a long con- tinental tour, to constitute your ideal RESPECTABILITY? i Do you think any woman has any proper " self-respect,"  that don't always send Livery to answer your ring, with a silver waiter, at the very least, for your card? Do i you think she ever had any to lose, if she can't, at this present, live up to five or ten thousand a year, at the E very lowest? And, "honor bright," do you fairly and fully believe she is a woman at all, if compelled to ap- ply any talent Goq has given her, to any useful purpose under -heaven? I don't! That. is, H don't believe  she's any nearer to one than you are to a "C coat tail walking behind a moustache ; ' but if such counterfeit   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        89 feminines will outrage decorum-leaving off first the footman, then the carriage, going on from bad to worse, till at last they get shameless enough to appear on foot, in shawls that, "pon honor," you don't believe ever did come from Stewart's at all, or cost more than twenty- five dollars any where; and that, too, in the very streets where you used to watch hours and hours, at the risk of cold soups and sun-strokes, for the honor of a nod, isn't it scandalous that a little, lingering, old fogy squeamishness won't suffer Spirit-of-the-Age and En- lightened Philanthropy to- drown them all off "like so many blind puppies, fifteen to the litter," before the abandoned wretches go about putting out old acquaint- ances' eyes, and rushing them over crossings, to the manifest detriment of good boot varnish and beautifiul "deportment!" "Isn't it perfectly unbearable (" only you must bear it") that they won't listen to reason, and leave off breathing, with dinners, diamonds, and operas-that not even their own blood relations can be allowed to find rope, razor, or morphine, and take them all quietly off, before committing such awful rents in escutcheon as no " aristocratic darning needle" in the world could fairly mend? Isn't it a sin and shame, that after get- ting up a bran-new coat-of-arms, and sacrificing to the graces, your sublimities can't begin to show off, without having or and argent besmudged and begrimed with their sackcloth and blouse--perfectly infamous, that you can't presume to put on the High-Mightiness, without having somebody flinging their disgustability in     90       FAMLY PAPERS AND your faces? I really don't know what is to be done in such premises!                     ;i Suppose you try, legislating away the consan-     guinity! I've known moral obligation very summarily  I discharged by that economic process; and when the     impudent nuisances come to want help, instead of get- i ting, or giving it, perhaps you can't do better. Should ! the unreasonable malcontents object, (as it's as like as  not they will, though I shouldn't,) you can impeach    the integrity of family records, and denounce them as  I illegitimates, or impostors. If they don't take them-  . selves out of your daylight after that, I don't quite like ':] to advise extreme measures, such as indictments for   i swindling, or vagrancy; but if worst does come to    I worst, always remember to cry' "Mad dog!" before     shooting down your enemy's poodle. Not that I expect   any thing so prononcg of your serene platitude as pal- pable interference,-oh no, that would never do-it    a would compromise " dignity ;" and, besides, you might "catch a Tartar." If there's a wrinkle in your rose- : leaf, don't open your mouth, or offer to touch it, but - just wince, or turn up your nose, and the work, though never so dirty, is sure to be done; for don't esprit du corps teach every man that truth and justice are nothing to the interests of his order? Of course it does; and the more these are imperilled from within, the more it imports him to put on an injured, above- all-suspicion air, hug the traitor, and hang the accuser. a The more truth, the worse scandal," you know, and the more need of hunting him down; so you've only to 'prepare to pucker," and every big dog and little of   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       91 the whole pack, spaniel, puppy, and hound, are soon out in full cry. It's rather hazardous, though, for if the game turns out A an ugly customer," and stands at bay, you'll either have to back out, or " face the music." Dodg- ing the corner won't serve,-shamming blind is "no go,"-when you've waked up " the wrong passenger," it's no use trying(to ignore his existence. Why, the very boys in the street would cry "Ostrich! Ostrich!" -you can't escape that way; and I tell you, man, the whole world is on your trail, and knows very well you've got a hieroglyph, that means one thing in anaglyph, and another in vernacular; and how convenient it is, for all nowhere "wasn't there," no-responsibility ora- cles. It knows, too, how manly, and honest, and high- minded, and, withal, Christian a thing it is, to sneer away a woman's good name, in innuendoes, specifying nothing, and implying every thing derogatory! Saying, for instance,  ; lost her SELF-RESPECT," meaning, very possibly, unlimited income, and nothing else-except to have the uninitiated translate it, "' no better than she should be,"--a phrase, which all that are, know ought to immortalize its author, come what will of your snub- bings. However, if it's only a woman, and you've "the better part of valor," perhaps you're safe enough after all; but do you honestly believe fraud, falsehood, and wrong, the best safeguards of honor and justice? Do you really think all religion, morality, and human sym- pathy such unmitigated humbugs, that their perpetuity depends on pursuing to the death all who expose hy-     92       FAMLY PAPERS AND pocrisy, vice, and oppression; that every thing, that has made itself an " institution," is so rotten to the core, that the first breath of investigation would topple it over? Does the anointed priest always take a lie in his right hand with the cup of salvation? Is the tem- ple, indeed, so baseless that it must totter to its fall at the first echo of a halting tread? Is integrity a cheat -is there nothing in life but the profoundly unreal? Are friendship and dissimulation, principle and pre- varication, piety and pretension, all one and the same? Earth has faith in their duality, even yet-SUBLIME FAITH, in a deep, pure, strong vitality, that has sur- vived the contact of many a foul putrescence-that need not fear the probe and the scalpel! Have you NO FAITH to give in return? How much longer will you wrap the old charlatanry round the gan- grene, whose rankness smells to heaven-raise your old cat-calls, "Infidel," "Anti," "l Radical,'--persecut e right with vindictive might, and think to hoodwink God and man into a belief of your own infallibility! How much longer will it take you to find out that you can't lay your opera kids on the great, beating pulse of humanity, and say, c"WE ARE THE MEN "-' Peace-be still?"It strikes me, you are uncommonly stupid! CRABTREE AP CnAB', 1st Lictor.   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        93 GERTRUDE. MSS A., OF ERANKFORT, DECEASED IN LOUISIANA, FEB. 14, 1855. So pass the loved and beautiful away, So pass the earthly hopes that cling to earth; Flashes of light, whose meteoric ray Just gilds, to doubly darken all our hearth- Signals hung out on frost king's mocking strand, Voices of home, in dreams on Franklin's shore, The old sweet dreams of springs, in desert land, Visions of sails that come, oh, never more. Feelings for sunbeams, with palsied hand Groping in darkness for music of light- Face of young love on the eddying sand, A mirage of warmth, on the iceberg's height; Song of a  siren, re-echoed in sigh, Telling the heart that melody is o'er- Glimpse of Immortal, on poor mortal eye, Yearning in blindness for it, evermore! Chaplets of flowers, we fondly weave, To crown our brows with many a thorn; Alas! for us, if on our hearts they leave, No fragrance from their early blighting bornm- ^o faith, in patient love TO WAIT, in DEED To strive, where life's best light returns no more. No closer clinging to that arm we need To bear our sinking feet, life's dark wave o'er I IL. L.     "      FAMLY PAPERS AND JURISPRUDENCE EXTRA-JUDICIAL,i AND OTHER JURE-DIVINO-ISMS.  JUDGE LYNCH, TO ALL THE FAITHFUL--HONOR AND GREETING:--  THS is to notify REGULATORS, CAPT. SLICK'S COMo- PANIES, and all other CONSERVATORS, on their own   / hook, of public weal, that they can hereafter hold open  court in broad daylight-hang, burn, harry, and drown wherever they list, right under shade of old Faneuil  Hall, if so they please, its law-abiding Solons having  found out, at last, that of all the ways extant, there's no way for knowing nothing at all about LAW, like  1 spending a whole lifetime in its study and practice! "Humph, must have lived long, and studied hard ;: some of them, then, before they contrived that legal ii knife for legal throat!"              i "Fact, ma'am-fishy-codfishy-crawfishy I Eels, no scalps-Indian no catch skin there!"j "Where's Lady Lack?"  Reconnoitring in the great Gas Factory, where the -  Messieurs Demetrius, Diotrephes & Co., put up so  1 much "milk of human kindness " for Bunkum. Thinks the vitriol-throwers might use to advantage the subli- 1 mated Cream-o'-Tartar evolved, whenever any temne- raire happens to hint that some of the good done in the  world isn't so much by, as in spite of them ;-is mor- ally certain, that if that ubiquitous, wandering Jew of j a mortal, that once fell among thieves, were brought up this way, he'd get precious little for a plaster,bu* the foam, froth, and dregs, mixed in with a doubli   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.         95 share of the "insolence of office," and thereupon falls (as usuaD to doggrelizing, much in this wise, about GOOD SAMARITANISM, OF TiE SUPERB-SUPERLATIVE ORDER. "I have read, I am sure, in some chronicle oll, Of victim half-murdered, stript, and plundered for gold-- Not slinned, as defaulters serve children of men, Thieves and robbers (more noble) were institutes then; But, 'alack! ' says the Levite, 'I think he will die! ' 'He might do greatly worse,' mutters priest, with a sigh, 'If yon silly old heathen, to save him should try! Paz vodiscum, my son! ' and he hurried on by. "ow "v all that is changed, as I have hinted before Old clothes are quite vulgar, they are wanted no more And to artist accomplished, 'twere clumnsy old sin, To strip off the olotles, just TO TAtE OFFp the skin/ Then our Priests of Humanity fail not to cry, 'Ho! HELP POR rom WOUNDED! '-if he is not too nigh; Inconveniently so, 'tis distressing, indeed, So they search ali his pockets, to find out his creed If it suits them exactly, in hue and in tone He is welcome to die, untended and lone; If not, they piously curse 'soul, body, and bone,' But the papers and proofs pocket still as their own; For that creed /s seductive, past human mistake, That induces such good men a promise to break, That such very thood men arrant TRAITORS can make!" Don't take kindly, you see, to this new-fangled, ex- cathedra grammar of ethics and humanity, that sets "higher"' above highest; but, probably, these born Solons, seraphs, anl savans will teach her a good deal she never knew before (and won't be like to know here- after) about the wicked Pagans in those remote, bar- -     96       FAMLY PAPERS AND barous regions, where she's been nearly ever since she came over. Wonder, ma'am, do pale-face medicines always cure the "Black Death," by striking it. in- think moral virus only dangerous when it comes to sur- face? Don't pretend to say but codfish oil may be a good specific; but would as soon trust the open doors, big fires, and free air of the wigwam and the prairies. CRABTREE AP CRAB', 1st Lictor. A VOICE FOR ALABAMA. 'April, 1855. GIVE! for her hand hath scattered far and free, When want and war, with crushing footstep passed; 4 "Give!" for thou know'st not when may come to thee, Famine and death, the mildew and the blast. Give! for her ear ne'er closed to human cry, Wrung from the fainting heart of struggling need; Give! for her priests ne'er passed the stranger by Coldly, for crime of section, or of creed! Give! for her bread is on all waters cast, Give! for no nobler sons hath earth, than she; Grive! for thy lien on earth is failing fast, GIVE! as thy God hath freely given to thee 1 L. L. * The reader has not forgotten Ireland.   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        97 CALIGRAPHOTYE, Of a rather Upper-tennyish, Private Traveller Trap, not a hundred leagues from where an old T EA PARTY once boarded visitors at their own cost, and the Moderns " take them in," free gratis. IMPRIMS.-One beautiful specimen of henpecked husbandry, whose duty it is to adopt and verify all Madame's dislikes and asseverations; make out weekly bills, by no means weakly-forgetting the precise day of arrival, so as to gain two or three in the course of a month; whet an    immense carving-knife, till every body's nerves are unstrung, and appetite gone; enun- ciate "cod-fish" and " corned-beef"/' or send away the dish, and say, " cold mutton," instead of "STEAK, or mutton," when the nice-looking beef-bone won't carve any longer ; and fight, ad interim, "The battles of Freedom, like true carpet knight, Where colors of carpet are faded from sight." FARE.--Price of provisions for breakfast, nine hun- dred dollars; house-rent (very doubtful, by the by, by the looks of the premises) for dinner, and nothing special but want of victuals for supper. Mem.--Won- der if that whole cargo wasn't worst black; think it must have been-harbor decoction holds out so remark- ably well, when people don't like it, and tastes nearly as bad as ever. But the crowning   glory is to see an overwhelming avalanche  of brawn and muscle, masquerading  in fe- male guise; rushing   from   parlor to market, from chamber to offices, doing the sunny or sulky dignified     98       FAMLY PAPERS AND at table, the bland and imposing, like amiable North- wester, in twenty by twelve feet "Drawing-room," the fury in kitchen--storming away like any tornado, c bat- ing" fifty years' old Irish women with c chunks of ice," yet never dreaming that ears within a dozen yards can learn what they would rather not know, without stoop- ing like it, or her, to the meanness of espionage-ob- serve her intercepting visitors here, waylaying inmates there, and eavesdropping the whole household every where --snapping up servants at every turn and corner, cate- chising them, and boarders, about themselves and each other, and expecting Ladies to do the same-actually stamping her foot at a sick one for not evincing as much alacrity and skill as she might in playing the spy at her bidding, and all perhaps for fear that that most legiti- mate subject of all human extortion, a helpless, unpro- tected woman, should ultimately detect what accident and intuition had told her almost from the very first, without a question,-namely, that out of some very highly developed conscientiousness somewhere, she was only charged a fraction less or more than three times as much as was her predecessor, for precisely the same dis- accommodation ;-hear her bouncing out of bed twenty times of a night, unable to sleep, and " rampaging " up and down in but " one remove from a birth-day suit," like something demented ; because some audacious rebel has dared to light candle or gas long enough to read a note or seal a letter-find her c brought up all stand- ing " in full sail for the street, on learning (accidentally, for once) that some such atrocity anticipated the unin- terrupted use, for an hour or so, of "Twenty by Twelve"   OFFICIAL DOCUXENTS.       99 with the ambitious appellative-see her wheeled to the right-about, and presently seated alongside a huge stocking-basket, whose contents (supposing them   to have been her own) didn't get PATCH'ng and darning before they needed it ; and evidently with the intention of listening to or preventing a conversation which con- cerned her as little as did the contents of a note she intercepted the day before between street door and parlor.-Ample causes to justify Lady Lack, when get- ting wind of them, in exclaiming "If seven devils were cast from one Magdalene, As a book often quoted most truly relates; What a legion of imps might be presently seen, If the Lord would but exorcise MADAME de-" bates!" CRABTREE AP CRAB', 1st Lictor. SAYING AND DOING! WHEN AND WHERE? "SON of mine, ' Go work in my  vineyard to-day.'"' "I will not, father stern, for 'tis sombre and gray, Life beckons and smiles, and I must away ;" But he turned him again, at the low thrilling breath, "  There's a master you serve, his wages is Death!" "Son of mine, ' Go work in my vineyard to-day!'" "I will, honored sire, thy commands I obey, And much I'll accomplish-but first I  will play!" Trifling, sycophant child, his work was not done, The idle, the faithless--knows't thou such an one?     100      FAMLY PAPERS AND "Son of mine, ' Go work in my vineyard to-day! '" " I would, but my own, all so smiling and gay, Needs finishing touches, excuse me, I pray." . And he toyed with its tendrils, they held him in thrall, When he counted his gains, a thorn was it all. 'Son of mine, ' Go work in my vineyard to-day!" "I would, gracious Lord, but how can I stay, Care crushing my heart, want goading for aye?" So he dragged on his chain, unaided and lone, Earth reaping his toil, and mocking his moan. "Son wayward and wild, all the heat of the day Cruel master thou'st served, now what is thy pay? Dark stains on the soul, won in life's sternest fray! Bitter bondage not mine thy- spirit hath borne, My easier yoke, shall it never be worn? EC Come back, erring son, to my vineyard to-day, I have kept thee, and called, and loved thee alway; Is it much that ye come? 'Tis much grace that ye may  Work gladly, work meekly, my cross earns the crown, And burdens I'll bear, if ye but lay them down. "In paths that are hard, ye have wandered this day, Lost, deserted, oppressed, and sunk in dismay, Will ye now learn of me, 'the truth and the way?' Sick, wounded, and faint, will ye lean on my breast, And come to the home where remaineth C A REST?' "Say son, will ye work in my vineyard to-day?" "Oh the day is far spent, night dark'neth for aye, And weary and footsore, I wander astray ;"   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.      101 No strength for the culture, no skill for the toil Should weakness and sin encumber the soil. a Child of mine, ' Go work in my vineyard to-day!' If weakly, not well, is it thine to gainsay? Who calls for thy service, knows well thou art clay, Has lamp for thy feet, for wounds, healing balm, And strength for the weakest, that clings to his arm. "Say son, will ye work in my vineyard to-day? Will ye bind up the stem, now drooping away, And win home the wild vine, so loving to stray? Will ye guard the young germ from mildew and blight, And sun the pale shoot that is pining for light? "Will ye gather my grapes, or cast them away, Will ye cherish my vines, or mock their decay, Will ye wait if ye must, will ye toil, if ye may? CHOOSE! His servants ye are, whose law ye obey. Son of mine, will ye work in my vineyard to-day?" L. L., Supernumeraire. ITEMZING. "WHERE is Lady Lack?" Out itemizing. No great things on a scout, though --mortally afraid of snakes, can smell 'emn far enough -don't know so well how to fend off; but capital eye on a trail. Is rather pining now for a little glimpse of social position-bought a new spy-glass on purpose.     102      FAMLY PAPERS AND " No use, will have to take the back track, or pass over the border-isn't indigenous in. these latitudes." Saw nothing but a miserable set of nervous rope- dancers, clutching and balancing convulsively about a sort of Al-Sirat's Arch, and some knots of bullies, called CLIQUES, hard at work kicking and knocking and keep- ing off all they could. Came back quite nervous out of pure sympathy-wonders why the poor, unhappy wretches don't wear balloons to keep themselves up when their feet don't reach terra firma-speaks of getting up a subscription to buy some. "Couldn't cost much-GAS very plenty." Started right off for the Harvest' Home of Super- empyrean Philanthropy-got taken all aback'; heard one of the lucky reapers tell unlucky gleaner c couldn't afford to drop him a single grain just then, because it was special harvest time with him!" Simpleton com- prehended at once, (ought to have known before, that every surplus grain was bespoken long ago for exporta- tion,) but a woman-saving your presence-never will listen to reason. ' Out of her line, you know." Caught my Lady Impudence laughing the man right in his face-had to order her off, or she'd have peppered him nicely. Can't always keep up with her, though, -know she's been round since, found this arrow- head and snakeskin flung right into the teeth of Areo- pagites! Had some sense in her noddle when she put right out after that, leaving La Supernumeraire to pack up and follow. ' What's all that choctaw about?"   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        103 TIMON and BEN ADHEM. "I Ben Adhem,' who's he?" Friend of LEIGH HUNT'S, it's thought; he say, "Aben Ben Adhem (may his tribe increase) Awoke one night from a sweet dream of peace, And saw within the moonlight in his room, (Making it rich and like a lily in its bloom,) An angel, writing in a book of gold. Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold, And to the Presence in his room he said, ' What writest thou? ' The vision raised his head, And with a smile made all of sweet accord, Answered, L The names of those that love the Lord.' 'And is mine one? ' quoth Adhem. ' Nay, not so,' The angel soft replied; Ben Adhem spoke more low, But cheerly still-' H pray thee, then, Write me as one who loves his fellow-men! ' The angel wrote and vanished; the next night He came again with a great wakening light, And showed the names whom love of God had blest, And lo, Ben Adhem's name led all the rest I " "Oh yes-heard of that old Sheik before-seen him often?" Have met him -occasionally-very quiet; meddles with nobody's business, unless to do them  good-never much the rage-not worth lionizing. "Well,--the Choctaw?" Yes, ma'am. TIMON, OR ABEN ADHEM-WHCH IS IT? 'How can man love his Maker,' St. John asks, I ween, ' If he love not his brother, whose face he hath seen? ' But such humdrum old notions won't do in these days, The ' Beloved,' in filct, lbad the oddest of ways,     104        FAMLY PAPERS AND Or PHLANTHROPY sure is a thing very queer, For it loves the more distant, and hates the more near: At a hemisphere's length 'tis Humanity's self- Nearer home, a Demetrius, wedded- to pelf. Is Bunkum's young PHL, old Mis, in Bloomerite dress? That they act much alike, I am bound to confess; And 'the voice i like Jacob's,'--does MS-ANTHROPY mask, And who forces on cynic that Pharisee's task? What- enchanter is this, putting false for the true, And donning the fairies o'er the goblin's foul hue? . Is it ' Distance ' the cheat, with his harlequin sleight? YNo,-the old masker still, en ' angel of light! '" Nice gage de bataille, that!   My belief, ma'am, that if you don't interpose your authority that woman will " dream " in rhyme before long! "' Well, what of it? Don't threaten to throw her Cgage de battle,' as you call it (wish you would quit Choctaw and talk English, as every good Christian should), into your wigwam, does she?" Not so sure! May bark every hollow log, and send her small shot into every sly hole and corner in it before I get back. "Dare say, it needs tidying, well as other folks." Suppose it does, who's going to make himself such an outlandish Ourang Outang up here among the civilized, as to keep a civil tongue in his head, and mind his own business like a mere honest, decent red- skin ; instead of a considerably enlightened, full-blooded half-breed? Not Hdon't like fat babies, shan't go into Barnum's Museum just yet-see myself " chawed up catawampously " first! CRABTREE AP CRAB',    st Lictor.   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       105  THE FUGITIVE RETURNED. La Supernutneraire's Valedictory. A TOIL-BROKEN slave, fainting, weary, and worn, With the weight on her heart of the chains she had borne, Had struggled full long in the watch and the ward Of the tyrant she owned for master and lord- Had struggled in sickness, in sorrow and pain, To 'scape the fell clutch that enchained her again, Ere her footsteps could reach that far freedom shore, Where hounds of " old Povertas " torture no more. Not gentle or noble such master could be, And a "' servant of servants " each moment felt she Not servile in spirit, but fettered in limb To the poor craven serf, gold fettered to him. So he darkened her eye, and wasted her cheek, And deemed that her heart, like its pulse, must be weak, For he knew not the strength, his chains could not bind The kingship that lives in the domain of mind; But the fettered in limb, unconquered in soul, Reached fairly, at length, the fugitive's goal, And welcomes of freemen to freedom--so dear- Noble voices breathed out in brotherly cheer; But echo sends back, in the old fearful tone, "This FUGITIVE SLAVE I claim as my own." Can the "Sons of the Pilgrims look coldly on wrong? Will they stand for the weak, or strike for the strong? 5*     106      FAMLY PAPERS AND Do they battle like men for right against might? Alas for the victim-she's nothing but white! L. L. August, 1855. SHORTHAND NOTES, For the better enlightenment of the haf-civiized "Down South" and "Out West,"--down in "The RNation"MORE PARTIOUIARLY. THE WAY TO DO THNGS UP PROPERLY. OBSERVE SUNDAY-n-  - - the Sabbath,"- Sundays's heathenish as it would be to say am and are in place of "be,"-by putting on an immensely injured air, as if trying hard to keep your tempers, and not get quite mad enough to bite your Maker for giving you that day of rest, which you'd never have had the wit to give yourselves; going three several times to sit under the droppings of the sanctuary, and looking all the rest of the time so awfully pious and devout, that not a dog's tail, nor darky's hair will dare to curl for the next twenty-four hours ;--MONDAY, by washing. TUESDAY. See if the damps of yesterday relaxed Dignity cords any, screw them up to proper tension, and recreate, by considering, FIRST, whether the Rev. Dr. Get-beyond-his-depth wasn't slightly caught nap- ping, when giving those beautifully incomprehensible metaphysics, in the modern German, instead of ancient Con-Fut-Soc. accent, and whether such anachronism can be held strictly "Orthodox," or may be safely passed over as a mere venial lapsus linguae, SECOND,   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       107 what that Jew, MOSES, could have known, more than any troglodite baby, how long it took to make a world, or how many different stages a young, suckling planet had to pass through before it got fully grown ; and, consequently, whether it was altogether in good taste for the Rev. and very distinguished Prof. Let-himself- out, to lug in a Hebrew text at the head of that mas- terly essay of his, On the Anatomy and Physical De- velopement of Incipient Nebulae? If- so, or if not so, sit down and write an exposition, corollary or refutation twice as long as both, in plain, simple Greek, that " he who runs may read." WEDNESDAY: Mount the tallest kind of "Dignity" stilts, look ineffably condescending, and go about to re- lieve consumptives by a homily on Intemperance, nakedness and starvation, by a tract on Profane Swear- ing, or the Sin of Piracy-always remembering to mus- ter in full platoon, to administer benevolence " like a strait-jacket," where perverse ingrates object to being shown up, like some two-headed calf, horned frog, or worse reptile, in a glass case. THURSDAY.  Give Dignity its proper lustration after this sullying contact with the "' profane vulgar," not forgetting its proper ovation. Air it at a learned Lecture on "CAUSE of the Abstract Superiority of a Boorioboola-Gha Savage Soul, to that of an Aboriginal Savage, or Savage Celt ;" proceed to "Lie-see-um," and discuss the relative value of, and nice casuistical distinction between, The Bights of Woman and WO- MAN'S RIGHTS. [N. B. DECISION in both cases,- "One that makes most NOISE PAYS best."]     108      FAMLY PAPERS AND FRIDAY. Hold a special day of fasting and prayer, repent of everybody's sins, that are sinners, inform the Lord how much we're doing for them, and' how little they're doing for themselves; tell him how they all behave, especially those naughty rebels that " 'JAw' BACK " and LAUGH AT US by turns, but won't give up when we offer to take possession, though they know very well the " meek" are promised to"INHERIT THE EARTH!" That's " us,' and we want it, ,and mean to have it! Ask Him if this is the way he keeps his promises, and if he expects us 'to exterminate these in- cumbents ourselves--with our " sword and our bow," "by hook and by crook,"-as we did the usurping cop- per-skin rascals found here ; or wants every man, wo- man and child of us, t, take Samson's weapon, go forth, and "smite the Philistines, hip and thigh?" The last way suits us best, because the other's too "slow" for these days, and we can't afford to wait. Top off with, "God, I thank thee that I am not as other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even sin- ners, like these publicans." SATURDAY. Practice awhile on "Al Sirat's Arch," see that Dignity has on the whole been preserved in- tact through the week ; and lay in a fresh supply of oil to sanctimoney-ize with on the morrow, unless some rural church, or seaside chapel lies clearly in the path of " duty," in which case, a few drops less of that oil of sanctimony will suffice." CRABTREE AP CRAB','!.st Licior.   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS,        109 PRETENTIOUS, BUT "SPOTTED." IMPROMPTU on a Hotel, not more than a thousand miles from Em- pire State Capitol, wohere a lady, dieting on " two cups of tea, one glass of milk, and two crackers per diem," was charged 50 cents a day in advance of .specijed prices " oN ACCOUNT of the HGH PRIOES OF PROVISIONS." SOnME very nice men have taken a stand, To take the last " fip " you've got in your hand ; They've porters enough on errands to run- (They look very cross, excepting just one.) They've rooms, too, I'm, told, oh, many a score, And they'll promise you one, and take you next floor; Where, what with the cars, the noise and the smoke, Don't mention the "SLEEP,"--'tis a very hard joke! They've a gentleman, too!-too good for the place, And the weary all bless his kindly young face; He's light to the eyes of the feeble and old, And worth to the Firm his whole weight in gold. They've one china bowl, and that's very grand ; But "' PROVISIONS " are HGH, as you understand; And the card's hanging up, but you'd better inquire, For you'll findl to your cost, the price isn't there I LADY LACILAND, 2d Lictor. 18th September     "O      FAMLY PAPERS AND THE HALF-BREED'S LECTURE TO PALEFACE YOVNG LADIES. TEXT-A woman is not a reasoning animal. OF COURSE she isn't, for she hasn't even found out that MAN is, yet! Says all his reasoning powers never did, and never will, help him to the knowledge that nine-tenths of all the " beauty, grace," and all that sort of thing, that men go into ecstatics over, when they "fall in love with a lady's laced apron," might go on masquerading undetected from now till the day of judg- ment, in some poor school-ma'am, common seamstress, or other of society's workers. More than that, she says he evidently isn't capable of putting this and that together, and tracing up the connection between cause and effect, till he finds out what has made the Houri or Peri he won leave off her music and blandishments, and turn into a big-fisted, red-faced old woman, or pale, haggard piece of anatomy, in such an incredibly short time! Has rather an abid- ing conviction, though, that it must be WANT of proper exercise in getting up his linen and choice viands ar- tistically ; and thereupon falls-for if an idea once does get into the creature's brain, it's sure to run wild and cut up some,ridiculous antic; and it don't take much logic to get up a homily--to talking most beautifully about " our valuable women, our high-hearted, pure- minded Christian Women," who "so nobly sustain themselves and others," wheneither to the manner -born, or transmuted by Juno's frown from Life's Orna-   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       1" mentals to its Usefuls.*  And verily, an old cabbage- head might weep tears of admiration and awe, as he solemnly warns all delicate feminity, as it values its chance of a hwhand, to cultivate the acquaintance of Dr. Scrubbing-brush, practise the graces with Madame Broom-and-duster, and bow down, unremittingly, at the shrine of St. Cuisiniere, "if it ever expects to be admired, or hopes to be loved by ' the really sensible, reflecting men, worth catching "--meaning, of course, himself and others of his ilk in mental and moral calibre; and just as if anybody ever could remember the time when, place where,. or circle in which, cc the really worth catching " showed themselves any less disposed, than (the mere brainless fop or dullard, worth nobody's catching," todis all homage to the most pretentious ton, and fairest face, in richest parure, present! But don't be alarmed, young ladies.-L It's only the same old fogy, curtain lecture extra, that's been going E the rounds ever since I was big enough to leave the Pale-face College, go on trail and carry my own toma- hawk, newly resurrected and revamped, whenever some Benedick Philosopher wants to advertise the public that his metamorphosed isn't administering to his creature comforts quite as well as might be desired; and ex- pected, considering that he married a lady, perhaps, on the same principle that the old Scotch curmudgeon did his dead mothers maid, namely, " to save the wages of a housekeeper, the tax on a servant, and have Hmself and premises well looked after." And considering, too, The giving of RICHE, was, it will be remembered, one of Jumo's prer rogatives.     "2       FAMLY PAPERS AND that he wants to be kept in proper frame, in toto, for gratifying his taste for the beautiful economically, by gazing (respectfully, of course) at the pretty faces of other men's wives, or charming daughters; whose mothers (unreasoning animals that they are) have some- how discovered that if they want their daughters to pass, they must keep them presentable, even if they have to " do the digging " themselves :--because tley know the grasp of Dr. Scrubbing-brush, and worship of St. Cuisine, add more to the size and color, than grace, or symmetry of a fair hand and form; and that some- thing like a huge chunk of brawn, with claws like a boiled lobster, don't emit exactly the right light to show off diamonds and turquoise to good advantage, any more than a blister at one end of the finger and a callous at the other, give the most exquisite touch on the harp or piano. For the rest, girls, it's all humbug, every syllable, the " really sensible and reflecting " (and you know it's them I mean, if any such there be) don't believe a word of it themselves; though it isn't likely they'll own up after repeating it so many times, looking all the while, for all the world, just like Paddy's owl that " kept up such a divil of a thininking." No, not the first one of them, even after making, with the late Mrs. First's silent consent, selection of another help-meet (meet for her son) in place of the present cook-meai. But just see when one of them does have the felicity to suffer one of those "afflictive dispensations" that men half the time bring on themselves, and lay to Providence, if our Mr. Sensible Reflecting treats his   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       113 own rhetoric and pathos practically with a particle more respect than I do?  "Not a bit of it."  Does he indulge a young son (" very young," he must be, to do the like) in the childish folly of clinging to some parlor gem, now set in Humanity's Workshop?  "Not he!" Does he even go right off and take to himself one of his old admirations, those noble, accomplished, Christian women,-the only fitting life-time COMPANIONS of the man of thought and of intellect? P-e-r-h-a-p-s, if Juno has smiled at last, for suc- CEss atones for all; otherwise, Mr. Fop and Mr. Dolt may fly away with all the "valuable," "C gifted" wo- men in the world for all him. He goes and marries himself to " the wealthy and fashionable "Mrs. A.,or, as he can so much better afford such a luxury than his son, " leads to the Hymeneal altar the beautiful and accomplished Miss B., daughter of the late eminent Counsellor C.," or, "the fair and fascinating Miss D., niece of the distinguished Senator E." That's just what he does, as nearly as he possibly can, ninety-nine times out of a hundred ; and if any little Miss of fifteen here hasn't foundft out well enough before this without my telling, she must have kept her pretty eyes shut longer than most kittens, and made precious little use of them since. However, if she does find out at last that she's some- thing more and better than a mere parlor toy, and is unselfish and truehearted, humane and affectionate enough to wish to help her poor, weary mother, why then, God bless and help you, child, go and do it; but don't swallow any more of that " oily gammon" about     "4        FAMLY PAPERS .AND its helping You to a husband, if it does come from Ar- canum  and Sanctoreum.   And before any of you sell yourselves, "life and limb," " body and soul," to buy one of those expensive articles, just listen to what Dr. Dixon says here, ss.: a A mother with a family of six or twelve children is, the veriest slave on the earth, and from day to day, for twenty or thirty years, her energies are overtaxed till she has no vitality for the daughter, nor brains for the son; it is all consumed in toil, and watching, and anxiety. A race of men will never be born in America till this load of care and slavish toil is removed from the mothers who rear the race; the slave and the brute in gesta- tion have more care and attention than our Northern mothers!" Well now, that's just as true as the Koran, 'and a great deal truer than half the preaching you hear; though why the man should have made so much ado about it, their faces not being black, I'm sure I can't conceive ; but if you still mean to risk taking husbands, as I dare say you do, the grand secret of catching them -they being evidently the very choice game that's to be caught-lies in three words, feed, flatter, and flirt, but above all things, FEED. Widows understand this much better than you; they know that the road to men's hearts lies straight through the stomach, and lacking means or establish- ments of their own in which to feast and pet them, are a committee of the whole, in the way of putting thtem n the way of stuffing dainties down their throats, while they warble round and weave the blarney web securely. The reason, undoubtedly, why the philosophizing Mr. Samuel Weller, senior, found "' ONE widder, e-kill," as   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        115 he believed, " to about thirty or'nary women in pint of comin' round a man ;" but don't be discouraged so long as you've a mother to " dine," a father to "wine," a brother to " cigar," and a cousin to " oyster supper" and "ice cream" them; you're safe enough, never fear, all you've got to do is to flatter and flirt. This, of course, implies the aid of dress, in its most elegant and becoming-no, I'll take that back, for "the beauty of the fitness of things " is indispensable to elegance, "taste," and "propriety," to the becoming, and neither is essential here, the acts, pitted against the critiques of the carping old cynics, and would be thought highly moral and refined observers, themselves being witness ; so I shall merely say, " in its most fashionable and expensive style." Do this, and the prize is yours, despite all the "old saws," ex cathedra, and laypreach- ments, prosy, story-telling moralists, and moralizing bores, in existence; for with his Alpha and Omega, the beginning, middle, and end of all his thoughts and aspirations all before him, how can mortal man fail to kneel to Sylph, whose surroundings fascinate his eye, whose genial sprites fill his mouth with all good things? IMPOSSIBLE! And when you've got your game (or he's got you) safely bagged, it won't be long, I'm think- ing, before you'll begin to believe, that that Dr. D. really did have some " reasoning powers," or at least perceptions, with all his crochets. CRABTREE AP CRAB', 1st Lictor.     "6      FAMLY PAPERS AND OUT WEST. I FEEL a fresher breath upon my cheek, A truer, nobler pulse within my heart; The ready arm outstretched to guide the weak, Is better than the hollow gloss of art. NIGHT cannot shut thee out, thou gallant WEST! This breath is of a freer world a part; And bow who will, at sordid shrine and test, Give me thy open hand, thy honest heart. Fate of a stormy land is on thee laid, Hopes of a world beneath thy mighty arch; Earth's crowning " bow of promise" thou art made, I feel the tread of EMPIRE on its march! L. L., SIupernumeratre. 12 P. M., November, 1855. THOSE NUPTIALS.     i HlME--hme-hmeh! What's all this smudge, Crab? "Roasting a big Guinea to baste a live native, ma'am." 'What for? P "Wedding of HGH HNDOO CASTE, and Low GOL) COAST FETTISH." Wake Lady Lack-must have an epithalamium.   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.          117 HNDOO WOOL, OR GREELEY'S     "FETTISH." Some people wouldn't choose any wool in their toast. Others modestly claim to rule the whole roast- Perhaps they'll succeed on the Down-Eastern coast, Though folks that scold loudest don't always do most- Philosopher tOo's a little bit pettish, And sneers, in this wise, at National Fettlish. :' CONSTITUTION, you see 's a very Hard word, The same as Old Ironsides, of which you have heard." "There's all Christendoms FIRST! Hal names it and swears It's 'second to rifles for settling affairs,'- In All Saintdom's field, in fact, it sows tares, But it's out of my line, this saying of prayers; AMy mouth. like the Times, isn't very much mealy,:'- "Too dirty for that, Philosopher Greeley!" "But this CONSTITUTION'S a very hard word, And it never was soft, that ever I heard." Many idols, you hint, have very fine towers, Though Fettish don't always, in African bowers- "An old parchment roll suffices for ours " If so very much bent on testing its powers, CONSTITUTION, you'll find, is still a Hard word, Then UNION comes next, that's "Fettish " the THRD. "And those "Fettish " of ours, the more you deride, The firmer, the truer we cling to their side." Now much that is false, with some that is true, You have mixed up in this, as most nice traitors do. We thank you, however, for dropping the clue- We bow to that "' Fettish," and don't bow to you- As your mission's to rule, ours, not to obey, CONSTITUTIONAL "FETTISH " stands in the way. "And though it may be rather hard to digest, We think of the two, we could spare you the best."     "8        FAMLY PAPERS AND Grand college for cursing you've got up, weknow,' To mould and enlighten our faces of Dough'; And the :' beam in the eye '" you cultivate well- Like Jack's famous "Bean," all its branches do swell. And perhaps you expect that lumber to sell; But of nutmegs and hams we've often heard tell. "And there's timber elsewhere as good as your best, We've some in that small place, Down South and Out West." But man of much type, do you think it quite wise The gods of a nation, to flout in their eyesl Grant that W'Fettish " we have! Our idols they are, (How much, in our THRD, would you take for YOUR share?) -Not the least will we trust to " higher law " care, And woe to the hand that imperils a hair! a CONSTITUTION and ALL, the more you deride The firmer, the truer, we cling to their side." Some rascally wreckers, in quarters, we're told, Are ducking and diving to scuttle the hold Of that gallant state-ship we all loved of old! We think they will catch, oh, a very bad cold- With Douglas on hand, "Castle Dang'rous " within They had better leave off before they begin!  "c All honor to Douglas, the champion bold, The helm of that ship he's worthy to hold." Lordly CASTE kiss your bride, that sweet Fettish prize. (The WOOL that is pulled over OTHER FOLK'S eyes.) In a " low rakish craft" for ballast now lies- From Saintdom to Scoffing, theferryboat plies. On that Pagan rigged "punk" you carry high sail- We'll trust the Old Ironsides to weather the gale  u', Yes, for nice BRIDAL BARGE yOU carry black sail! Well. Flag of a Pirate, will answer to trail!.' ["* I1   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       119     The stars and the stripes we strike to it never-   . The Flag of old Time, our FLAG-SHPfor ever! i ENSORIA LICTORIA ]      .IMPROVISIN     INSTITUTIONS. a "AHEM!E"    says our nomadic, half-breed cousin, draw-    ing his lids solemnly down, and putting the quiet twinkle away back in his eye, as if fun and pun were to    be carefully cached as a redskin's stores; '"Ahem,"says he, incontinently smitten, on hearing that "The Widow Bedott " and "Mrs. Partington " were both out, with the ambitious design of going it strong, which means long, on a splendid conglomerate of their most superb style, mixed in with a little Choctaw Elemjayesse of his own;-"Ahem!" says he,-and that's the third time " what a very improvisin expectoration this oncom- monly fareish invention called Travellin is! Couldn't a ben more so, if got up expressively for that numerous class of gifted innercentssuals, with great nateral powers for tempestiatin in teapots, conJiticatin deca- logues, and exasperatin and jackasticatin round con- siderable on slantendikiler teetotums. Mephisto-physical oracilers, that allers incubates in the same persuasion, or percolates about in caterwaulin stacks of gutteral bricks and mortar, is apt to get their idees walled in arter a while, and grow up narrer- minded. Only suppose, ma'am, you'd never had a chance to pick up any participles of sacredotin prag- matics, except such poor dimes' worth of inflamation as     120       FAMLY PAPERS AND retentive intellectibles of angilar conceptions might subterrack from the time-moldered, evergreen dittoes of those demonsteratin electurors, who wantonly go about, kindly defamatin and expositin on eeny most every branch of useless knollidge, in which their hearers is pretty well constipated! Why, you might ha' gone on to the last day of your death in the stringent hypothe- nuse, that upipertennys is mostly those fortinit individ- gels (born in garrets, cellars, and other elevated, sub- terraneous persitions) who inherit uncounted sums of most incredilous amount, besides pedlars' packs and picklocks, cabbiage, and such like heirlooms, as in a manner necessiates them to obliviate lapstones, and worse lapses, by painting FALSE KrEYS argent, bootjacks and other laryes ramlpageant, on carriages; and build- ing immense palacials, to show off unmitigated museums of all sorts of vallyables that don't belong to them, only that the proper owners don't know where the stuff's gone to, and there's so much of it, that the Law's delicate, puny fingers can't get hold on't, any how. ' Knaves and fools!' -Laud o' massy! I didn't say no such thing-it's only the incidental concatecate- nation of the attractive principle of exaggravitation. Dear, dear,-how the onnateral resonance of that ut- sarcumcised vernacyler has upset the artistic lunarity of my idees, into a perfick delirimum tremenjus! Never collapse again into such uncivilized statistics-it's im- perous and onchristian, too ; for them that's got much is promised to have a great deal, and you oughtent to expect contrariwise. The LAW is too highly' rectified' and refrigerate to apply levelling terms incendiously.   a:gr         OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       121    It exemplifies you to be more discriminate, and respect dignities inordinately-such epithets is labellous! But if it hadn't ben for your lateral excavation through the straightified putrifactions, orful rostrum doses, percussin panicceas, crustyaceous panoramas, and flunkyatin scenes of these triangular, exascerbatin States, you never would a known, for certain, that the I Aristocracy ' of this enlightened Demoniocracy is that I  'privileged class' which the other misforchinit, down- trodden orders call ' HELPS.' ' Sarvants-SARVANTS!!' The Lord bless and deliver your confustyated, silly old soul-where did you ever git such romantics into your poor decomposed brain? Come right out of it now, if you don't want to be sent straight off to the Lunatic ( Lie-see-'er.' ' Sar- vants' indeed! Why, I tell you, ma'am, their hands is entirely too good to put into most kinds of dirty, dis- agreeable work ; that's for you to do. The principle of their avercations is, to fanfarenade round, and enter- tain company, espionage and exasperate about 'some,' suspect conspiracies against their vestered rights and dignities, put down rebellions, and accept handsum selleries for teachin their unhappy tribitaries, the inde- pendent bone and sinners of these great rural latitudi- naries, how to demean themselves respectiously to the young ladies and gentlemen, of all sectses and ages, who condescend to stay and look on, slatterate round, or exhalate and  amuse themselves, while they has to take hold and do the drudgery. Yes, it's quite collateral, ma'am, that you should feel rather emulous of such easy stnecurations ; but     122       FAMLY PAPERS' AND don't be too envidious, if you do have to stand back and wait till they've done with your glass, combs, and brushes; the nobility isn't altogether exempt from fugaceous dispensations, any more'n their poor de- pressed subjicks. And if the course of human rotatories ever should reduce them to your present oncomfortable rank, don't bear malice, and go to setting your foot on their necks, the very first minit you get a leetle grain the upper hand. It isn't for the 'King of France,' you know, to pay back 'insults to the Duke of Orleans ;' so just desiderate that your dignity's able to stand afoot, and go alone without wetnursing. And don't go to put- ting on airs to ex-ton-nish the aborigines, as if some on- expected concussitatin honer had toppled clean over the hypothecate equallibrium of that factious hallucium, which the unlarned call brain. People that comes, like you, of respectable' petrifactions, ever since the most remote ages of their geological progeny, has no occasion to act as if they hadn't been round some before, and couldn't bear their onmerited promotion, with the least kind of Christian hilarity and fortuitous resignation. Do try to excogitate a little more on your own quies- cent, internal lauderations ; and prognosticate a geni- flexin world, that it needn't exhilerate and indemnify itself quite off its axis on your account, by no manner of means. What's that?  c THOUCHT Uncle Sam's share was bound to flare up and dephlogisticate, and hour!' CHRISTIFER KERLnUMBUS! did you ever?    Cousin S-a-m J-o-n-a-t-h-i-n g-w-i-n-e to ex-plode, col-lapse, and bust his bile-er! Wal, I never!! You don't say so!   I!          OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       123 "Seen ever so many lyin low, absquatulating in darkl corne s driving in wedges, sluicin crevices, boreing in magazines, luciferin gun-cottons, and chasing after 'odirous' luminosities, hoping to pick up something handsome in the gin-eral muss." ST. GEORGE of Vernon, hear that! Put their foot in it more like, or get some new kind o' Schnapps' cedes into them   green-gourd bombshells of theirs. Wonder if they do raally take 'em for heads, and them zigzag, mete-a-year comics, for sure enough stars? Gess all well-edicated, honest sentimentals knows pretty well what them   orfully discomposin, jackymelantern phosphorals putresces from, by this time. Must be some badly-reformed misanthropators-just takes them consaited, whirligig, conjuratin fakir saints to be etar- nally falling in love with their own pro-files, bristlin up at their own shadders, and in a mighty flurry to cast the very fust stun at somebody as don't properly 'preci- ate their beauties. Are so wise now, they can eenemost take themselves in-get a little more light through their brazen ox-frontisbus before long, like that other bragin old Philischian Go-liar, if they're not after keepin more quiet. 'SERMONS IN STONES,' very good luminaters--fact, ma'am,-regilar Hard shell though; so if the geolo- gist-hammer don't come by nater, how on airth is them poor distressid, half-starvlin, sinful critters, that has to make a livin, by riflein good texes out o' Bibles, ever to make them up into clothin and waddin, or stop to swallow and digest good sound doctrine? "Ue to bolting strong meat '--needn't be squeam-     124       FAMLY PAPERS AND ish ; spoonies enough themselves-don't want any more 'spoon victuals."'  "C Well, that's ' true as preachin,' and the best on't at that, and sartingly ' sermons in stones' is very fine, 'provided they isn't all horn-blend' and fel-spars, and there's no lack of gumption to read and understand; but 'good- in every thing'-don't know so well about that!" Where's the use, now, of standing in eend looking at yourself through a forty-horse magnoscope, till ye can't see any thing under the hull canerpy half ekill to your own size and perfections; or suspect whose ugly, on- gainly picter it is, castin such dark spots on the sun?' ' Can't say '-suppose not-but if it's such a virilent morbid of'Very O Lord' Dogmatics, hope that chronic dis-temperance wont miasmate epidermically. Gess on the hull, them fabilous poetics needn't prate any more about their old Golden Age ; 'twant ' no sort o' shakes' to this ere gabilous one! Only think, now, there's the blackguard interventions, quartz of aurifer- ous gun-flints, " wild cat"-o'-nine-tale Banks, High- gean Schnapps, Spirit-raps, and Tell-egraphic lie-ns,- all eddy-fyin consternations ;-then there's TRAV- ELLIN, another "Improv-isin Institution," very- specially to them,. as rather calkilates that the New Jerusalem 's got to light up with codfish oil, or bound to subside. CRAB'S Reporter, LOUISE ELEMJAY. P. S.-Just found out the "good" of "Deliri- 'mums." It lies in the taxiturn stage (must be awfully   Ak,s,*17       OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.      125 mendacious not to quit lying when, it's " mum "), for if that wasn't coming on right away, don't think this "misfortinit' sufferer ever could survive this present attack! L. E., Bep. P. S. 2nd.-Miss BETSEY says, "he's got to come Dut of it, and that pretty quick, too,-won't stand this de-bill-itatin, Sangareedo practice any longer--bad enough to put up with his morbid weakness for 'scrouging' more meanings into words and sentences than they've got the sconce to hold, or other maudlins to understand--won't swallow any more such 'orful, quack-rostrum doses,' for all the mongrel fouls that ever quacked or ' bled' in Bunkum-not she!" L. E., Rep. THE OLD  FUSION  COMMTTEE; OR, THAT DUEL. OH! Fusion, confusion, what infamous tricks That scurvy Nebraskal has headed off Styx! Oh Bogus! oh Banks! can't some of you pray? Can't somebody kill off Steve Douglas that way? Horace Billy, and all, do come to my aid, And see what a mess of our fusion he's made! Can't you!Ward off, dear Hal, this rascally quiet? The ruffians in Kansas don't offer to riot- Those Nigs, too, of Cassius, just flung in our face!" Says Leader to Reeder, "You special bad case,  126       FAMLY PAPERS AND If you cannot help, what's the use of a tool? Up river called Salt, there's a very fine school." "' And this Fusion's a game must be skilfully play'd, Or 'twill blow us all up," says Emigrant Aid. "Yes, guns Stephen spikes, must be laid on the shelf, Or he'll blow us all up-atrocious old elf." "Stale eggs didn't pay-we are heartily sick; He's stumped us, and tramped us, and got our last trick;       i He's trailed us, and nailed us in treason and lie, That State, and our seats, he has blown them sky- high ; And our brave bogus laws he's branded so plain, I must scratch them all out," says Senator Lane. ' Oh, Sammy and Sambo, and Emigrant Aid, Do see what a mess of our bogus he's made." "Well, the truth is just this-we're all in a fix; Can't somebody send that Douglas o'er Styx?      I You've done dirty work-we have all of us tried-  But get out of this, or up Salt you must slide." "That logic of his it is useless to fight-- (Cassius' Darkies, or wit, don't help us a mite--)   i But my valor 's big, as a big piece of chalk ;  In fact, you have made it the newspaper talk.      Though chivalry 's now somewhat out of joint, So, on cartel I'll put a very C fine point,' And a new martyr Stephen A. Douglas I'll make, Provided said Stephen my challenge should take." 4   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.      127 "Dear Senator Lane, what a hero you are, To think of entrapping 'the Douglas in lair;' Dearest Sambo and Sam, how pious you were, Contriving such mesh, wicked ruffian to snare." "That doughface of his, we must do it up brown, For canonicals swore, in Silliman's town, That rifles were better to put a thing through, Though Bibles (for wadding) might possibly do!" But the Douglas, ' the Douglas,' he could not see why A forger, convicted, should ask him to lie, When the dear ' Brother Fred' had suited so well To help an impostor in cutting a swell." C Loving Sambo and Sam, what spoonies you were To think with such bait any true man to snare; Next time, we advise, that you take better care, When ' coffee and pistols for two' you require." "Horace, Billy, and all, do come to my aid, And see what a hotchpotch of crawfish we've made; Our vamosed old Gov., he is sliding elsewhere, The Hards are all grinning (how Harry will swear); And Bogus and Banks how the ruffians will scoff, At that Duel 'twas planned, but wouldn't come off. Sweetest Mary of Sharps! can't some of you pray? Can't somebody kill off Steve Douglas that way?" "Oh, Senator Lane, what a darling you were, Had you only entrapped 'THE DOUGLAS IN LAIR ;' But to hold up both hands, you blundering dunce, In our infamous fix-just clear out at once I     /  -. 128      FAMLY PAPERS AND "Yes, guns Stephen spikes, on the shelf must be laid, Or he'll blow us all up," says Emigrant Aid ; "Something better you'll do, when next you are tried- Just now, dirty Lane, up the Salt you must slide." If guns Stephen spikes,'on the shelf must be laid,' This fusion of ours isa wretched bad trade! Saints, 'three sheets in wind,' and some 'higher' than 'high,' Might send, I should think, their commands to the sky." "C No MARTYR of you could we make, if we tried, So Lany, my dear, you will have to subside. Hard parting with friends, but his reverence here Some Number One SCHNAPPS, sure, wi'll send you to cheer." "Oh, Sambo and Sam, you're a very nice pair Out in Kansas to keep, good rifles to spare. Don't they pay very well in Salt River fare? Don't somebody want Mss MARY out there? Go it, Sambo and Sam, you're weeding the LANE, Clear course you will have by the next People's Train; Schnapp's gospels will help you to rifle your fare, And to put you safe through, we Hards will be there." "Don't grieve, luckless Lane-to Salt River plain We'll send them all soon, to see you again. Go it, Sambo and Sam, you're doing your best; When you've finished your tools we'll tend to the rest." LADY LACKLAND, 2d Lictor.   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        129 WHO PAYS? "What's ' Government,'  Granny? Wy, la, child, don't you know? It's when several nice people gets together, and considers what's bestfor them and theirfolks, and then they goes and does it; and that's ' GOVERNMENT,) Joney." HAVEN'T a doubt of it, Crab, but who pays? "Uncle Sam and Brother Jonathin, ma'am." Yes, the regulars ; but the Humbug Bunkums, that elect themselves to go stir up the monkeys, get up bear-fights, pull the wires and keep the puppets all in order,-who foots their bill? "Why, the 'bone and sinners,' of course. That's what they're good for." Thought so; but always heard that ancient sorceress sowed her Dragon's Teeth somewhere in the Eastern world.   Must have sprouted at the wrong   end, and come up on this side. "Fact, ma'am. And they do say that that Hum- bug Bunkum, Esq., is one of her lineal descendants, by the very old Hydra himself." No disputing that pedigree-family likeness too strong!          C "Understand he's laying himself out to go the big figure, tomfooleyizing with his sharp  practice, and Schnappoish sharpness, out here soon." Get himself laid out for once, I'm  thinking, if he does. "Laying himself out," is he?    Well, couldn't do better, set Lady Lack to help him. *    "THEY " (demagogues) " are the Dragons Teeth, with which the soil of a Republic is every where sown."--Fisher Ames. 6*     130      FAMLY PAPERS AND "So conceited, she'd as soon trust her own eyes and ears, as his tongue and fingers, any day. Don't believe in ' Possuming,' she don't." Never will, sure as I'm a living sinner. BETSEY TROTWOOD, Censor. SLANTENDICULARS. THS UNION, says Banks, it is welcome to " slide!" "We stand on that plank," Wool and Fusiondom cried; And, their God and their land at once to deride, Some Deists leaped on, pulpit rostrum to stride. Some sliding there'll be, people very much think- 'They're used to Banks sliding, with other folks' chink I "c When the whole Union slides, just let us all know What grand times you have up Salt River row."     j It's "' League with the devil" a " compact with hell," i (Sure your saintships do swear uncommonly well; Is't znutmegs, or " high moral tickets," to sell?) And you are going to annul it! Do tell! Quite sorry vou're vexed with our faces of " dough," But where are your honors all meaning to go? "Oh, you are the Pope! Well, we'll let you all know When we're coming to kiss your Holiness' toe!" Very savage you are on faces of " dough ;" You cannot stand this, and you WILL NOT LIVE SO ;   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       131 Your " right" is "TO RULE," - and you'll let the South know " They have got to cave in, or catch it! Oh! oh! The way we do " catch it" is very sublime-- When caving begins, " stand from under " in time. When we're ready to slide, we'll let you all know; If your honors won't stay, pray where will you go? It's useless to fret at our faces of " dough," You can't twist them round to quite suit you, you know; And until you are Pope, don't hold up your toe, For it might march you off to Salt River row. And when cute folks like you are caught in such slopes, Other people will think you don't know " the ropes." "C Quite well enough yet, North and South to divide ; The West, I am thinking, has both of them tied." YVou can float on the " mote " your vision espies, Far down in the depths of a poor brother's eyes ; And easier way never man could devise To " gang his ain gate," and reach home in the skies. You've sole right, of course, to that nice patent train; And we rather distrust this new " sliding plane." "In fact, you do curse so remarkably well, We fancy, at times, that some brimstone we smell." "The freemen of the North have a RIGHT TO RULE the country I -! BANKS, in Rep. Convention for the "Northern United States."     132      FAMLY PAPERS- AND Would be masters of ours-sole lights of the world-- Bitter taunts you have long most recklessly hurled, Till in sorrow and scorn, man's proud lip is curled- Hadn't that blazon, TO RULE, much better be furled? The West and the South hardly yet you'll divide- That Union the Father of Waters has tied. "You may rabidly snap atfaces of dough, But can't bite them all, as you'd like to, you know." You've maddened " the many," but Union's sad knell Mightn't prove, after all, such a very fine c sell ;" You really think it GOOD MUSIC? Do tell! We think that some MOUNTE-BANKS toll their own bell ; But Schnapps put " low spirits" in very fine flow, Though rather Teu-tonic for some tastes, you know. ' If your honors will quit, say, where will you go? Oh yes! I remember, up old Salt, you know." When UNION'S the music, we never step slow- Your honors won't march? Well, your honors can go; When we're ready to " slide " we'll let you all know,- Just now you can shine on the Salt River row! Your barque is well Manned, and you'll soon learn the "ropes " Well enough to- get in, at end of yours slopes." "I wonder do Schnapps ever make a man swell; Is't up River Salt where they keep people well?" Oh! the Union's not past, its days are not done- In quarter-deck feuds we spar it 'C like fun; "   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       133 But at old ship of state point one single gun, Ev'ry plank on its deck we man it as one! The hour of its danger is hour of its pride, For the people's high heart is strong, true, and tried. And IIumanity's voice rings out from its side, Oh! the UNION must stand--the Traitors may 'slide '" "When the people all c slide,' just let us all know How much we outshine you, on Salt River row!" "Just now, you might strike CONSTITUTION, we fear, So UNION'S theword-we, THE PEOPLE, are here." LADY LACKLAND, 2d Lictor. THE LATEST OUTRAGE YET. WE have it, says an eye-witness, upon -the very best authority, that a peaceable, law-abiding citizen--one of those comfortable, nothing-so-easy philosophers, who bear another's woes "with such sublimity, that all the world exclaims, 'what magnanimity!'"--was lately "talking good," and holding forth condescendingly and commonsensically, to that legitimized butt of all com- pos-mentis-dom, a victimized, struggling author. Now, this particular one, be it understood, had- after once fairly reaching shore, under circumstances said to have made it " an achievement worthy to be recorded in letters of gold on after life," been ruth-     134       FAMLY PAPERS AND lessly caught, and flung back into the sea of Soblivion- shouts of victory ringing in one ear, taunts of failure hissed into the other-by the very hujmane, especial, and disinterested friends, who, after sufficiently testing the bantling's ability to survive the enforced literary felo-de-se of sales by author, fancied, perhaps, that it would do all the better, if parental encumbrance could only be got out of the way altogether; but somehow, the more they tried, just so much   the more  it couldn't. There was no earthly excuse for this indomi- table perversity; the world itself was just as obliging as need be, and could, as the tenacious le trop well knew, muster sufficient fortitude, any time, to draw out its pocket-handkerchief, say Ah, indeed! and resign itself to the loss with most exemplary composure; but no, the world might put up its cambric, or cry its eyes out, if it liked, from pure vexation,-it was no go. Well, the world does put up with a good deal in the long run, but there are some imposings on good nature which it can't stand--some points beyond which human endurance will not go; and even our placid, imperturbable, unoffending citizen felt himself in duty bound to remonstrate. So he fell, of course, to dis- coursing very sapiently, abstractly, and originally, on the idle folly of any but a very distinguished author's ever having recourse to the pen, especially if it was that or nothing) in a world like this, so teeming with books and swarming with literateurs. Talking away he was, in calm, unsuspecting inno- cence, only a little wondering--as even impassability sometimes will-why such impressive rhetoric didn't   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       135 make that particular supernumeraire own right up what unaccountable " sillies " some of the best judges the country has, or has had for years, were, in thinking productions which kept them waking until finished, no matter at what hour, ever worth reading at all; when what does this She- Wblf of Literature (for, of course, it could be no less) do, but impiously turn and stand at bay--" vow, that instead of quietly submitting to be legally murdered by inches, for the benefit of her execu- tioners, she wouldn't die--ot she--a minute before her time, to please anybody! No, not even for the honor of a newspaper monument, in the biggest and blackest of letters, to 'the most remarkable woman of the age ;' as every woman inevitably is, the moment her remarka- bilities-evolved in the crucible of wrong and starvation --can be made to enrich anybody but her and hers." And as if that wasn't enough to horrify the " un- terrified" even, she must coolly aver " that she had herself been on the planet called earth ever since she could remember-had as many eyes and ears as most folks, and, if she hadn't, had heard that same story, to the best of her knowledge and belief, at least three thousand times ; and seeing that Literary effort wasn't, after all, such a very unprecedented and unheard-of atrocity, didn't know but she had just as good a right to " come in" as any of the balance. Would like to know, though, how many of the " very distinguished" ever got to be so very distinguished before Mrs. Grundy, and " all the rest of mankind," ever had any chance, to speak of, to see whether they ever could be distin- guished? As for their suffrages, now that they were     136      FAMLY PAPERS AND "distinguished," they didn't count-it was so easy, as all the world knew, to pull the wool over the eyes of the very first grade; and for grades number two, three, and so along down, they'd let any flat pass. Ify Mr. Public, and other outsiders, with their eye-teeth cut didn't keep entirely too sharp a look-oaut to be hum- bugged after that fashion, they'd -never turn up their noses at all-the new competitors might think it jealousy. Still, her cub might be " done to death " by 3   foul means, but the coroner's inquest would come, for the 'c varmint' had been seen c alive and kicking!" Now, we solemnly ask, has it come to this? Are c well to do "Largeland Lieges to be insolently bearded this way, without tfear or favor, by their own rightful Laclland vassals? Verily, we have fallen upon evil times; and we do humbly submit-no, we don't-we do stoutly protest, that if Bunkum don't march Bunker Hill right off to take that audacious " she wolf" into custody, we don't see what that Institution's good for! Can't a quiet, law-abiding citizen flourishing ': respect- ably" under his own " vine and fig-tree," be oracular, trite, and commonplace, or vampirish, as he pleases, we should like to- know, without being pounced upon and Kansasized in this ferocious way? Can the whole annals of Border Ruftfiansf  exhibit such another wanton, unprovoked outrage on all free speech, good morals, exclusive privilege, and SENSIBLE conduct, as the fiendish onslaught it has been our painful duty to record? Is Freedom extinct-our Traditional Liberty nowhere? We sincerely hope, for the honor of humanity, and   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       137 "the glories of Seventy-six," that no United States Senator stood by, on that disgraceful occasion, with his hands in his pockets. CRABTREE AP CRAB, 1st Lictor. DEFINING THEIR POSITIONS. DOWN East, in a fury, "' declares he will ride Rough-shod o'er the Union, or make it all slide ;" He's got all the wisdom, he's got all the grace, His vassals no right to annul the ukase ; And he brandishes Schnapps in valiant sword arm- Poor fellow, I fear he will do himself harm. Ho, a steeple-chase race, and bottle of gin! Well, pick up the jockey, and carry him in. "This East, to be sure, is a very fast man, Spout higher-falutin no Emperor can. Creation must now on its marrow-bones fall, Or vamose the ranche! Sure he's talking quite 'tall;' But if left to stray off, now he's after the ' tin,' Would drift to destruction, like fish without fin." He only intends all creation to win, Though sharp enough nearly to take himself in. "But Out West," says the South, "like me, you must grieve At such frantic pranks.'" "Yes, and laugh in my sleeve;     138      FAMLY PAPERS AND For Down East is pitching, and 'vows he'll pitch in.-- The brass he has got, and we shall cede 'the tinz ; He lays down the law, like an old Tartar. Khan-- Bajazet and he were a very nice span." Shall we let him drift off, poor fish without fin, Or do hinm up brown, and make him stay in? "Down East, to be sure, is a non. compos man, Though he looks very like an old charlatan; Such shrieking for Freedom, such puffing of gin, Such blackleg and sharping, to Crocket were 'sin ;' But he's vaporish quite-awful yarns he does spin- Sure a guardian he needs, to keep him safe in." Poor ranting Down East, he is crazed with his din, We'll pick him right up, and carry him in. C Down East, to be sure, is a wrong-headed man, Whose zeal hath discretion a little outran. 'Twas a wild steeple-chase, that race against time- 'Twill bring him up soon, just 'one step from sub. lime ;' But to turn him adrift just now would be sin, So we'll diet him well, and let him stay in." When he spreads himself out he looks " rather thin," We'll pick him up kindly, and carry him in. "C Yes, we must take care of this very ' sick man,' Who was thinking to get in all the world's van."   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS,       139 So West and Down South, to their Sharp, Schnappish friend, A cordial permit, "with compliments, send. In Union rotunda he still may abide, But- can't have the room for a very grand ' slide t " Poor misinformed East, he has spread himself thin ; We'll Post him up better, and fasten him in. LADY LACKLAND, 2d Lictor. Oct. '56. UNCR OWSTED. DEAR ME, 'Mr. Respectable Prosaics, you don't say so! exclaims that old fogy celebrity, AUTHOR'S VANITY, how very precocious! Don't believe I could have found out all that very much before I was five years old my- [  self-am morally certain I haven't known it-just as ; well. as if every Supercilia in the land had made a special pilgrimage to inform  me-only ever since I could remember.  Where did you ever get such uncommon insight into the common workings of human nature? Must have been in rapporte with some metaphysic stetho- scope, I think--shouldn't wonder if your olfactories got keen enough, after a while, to tell "a rose" from a poppy, if 'twas properly labelled. Have strong hopes that if you only go on improving, you'll be able to appreciate wit (if you can't originate any) some day, when you know precisely what distinguished source it     "O      FAMLY PAPERS AND comes from! But how very kind and magnanimous of you to come and enlighten me; and what a blessed thing, you were always on hand to impress on poor "know-niothink Joe" how hard it was to get a living. "Didn't anybody tell him that he found THAT out him- self!" Come, come, Charlie Dickens, none of your gammon'here--you just shut up now-awfully given to Munchausening, I fear-must know that nobody but that ubiquitous Omniscient, AUTHORLESS CONCEIT, ever did find out anything clearly; but my dear CLAIR- VOYANT Moniteur, what enchanting condescension! It's really quite superb, the way you do wear that regal crown of OVERWEENING. Always understood before that I was acknowledged head of that illustrious House--wouldn't give a breath of Bunkum, cat's starvation, or " corper of rotunda," for all my kingship, now that your brilliant genius for developing the undeveloped resources of my specialty is extant. But my specialty-- INE? Not so sure- have some doubt whether the "whole and sole" of Vanity's fee simple ever was mine de jure-strange misgivings that I'm little better than a poor, pitiful scapegoat of a "Pretender," after all. Am I, I, Lord Paramount, or am I not? Half suspect I'm only a cunningly devised hieroglyph, Brain-figment, or Mytho- logic Abstraction, got up and set up by magic sleight of some ancient quizzes, in parts unknown, for Modern Hoaxees and Second Fiddles to take their cue from, !     and swear by--may be, Fossil remains of MODEST MERIT, unearthed by Mr. Layard, or Major Bruce, somewhere on that far-off Plain of Shinar!"   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       141 : Yes, that must be it-won't somebody galvanize /  me out of suspended animation? Thank you-ah, I X  see, just as I thought--name, crown, prestige, identity, all gone-" not fit to hold a candle," even, to the real g  heir assumptive, your Gracious Highness Prince of Overweening! Don't need to sit under your platitudes, or hear you blackguard in Billingsgate more than once  to be convinced of that, and when it comes to vixen- W izing in the newspapers, won't you sine? Sorry to have usurped your rightful honors and pre- rogatives so long; but here, AUTHORLESS CONCEIT, you C can take my hat, and all insignia to boot-I'm off to  Coventry.  St. Louis, Dec. '6.  CENSORIA LICTORIA. St. Louis, Dee. '56. B!-       FISHERS   OF MEN. EARTH'S Fishers are out in all waters to-day, They are length'ning their lines, and strengthening their poles; In the forest's dim aisles, the city's thronged way, They are fishing this day, and fishing for souls. Never idle are ye, ye "Fishers of Men," For your lines span the land, your nets the broad sea; On mountain, on moor, in the low noisome fen With line, bait, and barb, very busy are ye.     "2       FAMLY PAPERS. Cunni., anglers ye are, ye " fishers of men, In the wellsprings of life, the foul tide of sin, In the palace's proud hall, the pestilence's den, In the TEMPLE OF GOD-the Temple of Gin t And Fishers of Men, ye are taking this day The noble and base, the bond and the free; The hero's proud laurel, the poet's green bay-- Rich trophies, oh Fisher, for mammon or me! The ransomed I've "bought "--dare ye cast them away? The treasures ye win, do ye garner them well? Some net, Fisherman, ye are filling this day, Do ye gather for Heaven, or garner for hell? For ye "c gather them in, ye gather them in," The spoils of the earth, and the gems of the sea; And the pearl of the soul is the wealth that ye win- Oh I Fishers of Men, are ye winning for me? L. L. St. Louis, 18F56. CHARITY AND INGRATITUDE. A LAY SERMON FOR THE NEW YEAR. It may seem almost uncharitable to evoke the ugly phantom of ingratitude at a season when human sym- pathy pours out its genial tide in richest streams, and has need to flow in far wider sweeps and mightier volume still, to reach and save, and .soothe, and cheer,   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       143 all the suffering children of want, and sin, and sorrow -all that great and unfailing legacy left by the Givec of all good to the stewards of his earthly treasure. But "God is Love;" how humiliating it is then to poor human pride, that the'very quality which restores fallen man nearest to 'the image and likeness" in which he was created, should sometimes develope an- other that sinks him almost to the level of a fiend. And if " keener than a serpent's tooth it is to have a thankless child," how fearfully sullied and dim must be the fine gold of that original image, in the wayward child of a Heavenly Father, that can receive his boun- ties with indifference, and turn away from the earthly benefactor with bitterness and scorn, allied to ' envy, hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness." Such things have been, such things will be-but falter not for that," wax not weary in well doing," ye to whom it is given to know how much more blessed it is " to give than to receive." Do we so use the gift that is in us as never to abuse it? Is our gratitude for the greater good so perfect, that we can brook no flaw in that for the less? "The gallants laugh, and fling him gold, and he gathers it with a curse;" but was that man wholly ungrateful? No, for " he went to share it with the beggar that had pitied him." Man is not cc all evil,"--if we are human, what right have we to demand perfection?  Should we not rather look well to the spirit that is in us? It may be that in almsgiving we have forgotten charity; that our zeal is sometimes officious, that heeding too little the flush- ing cheek and quivering nerve, which should have     "4       FAMLY PAPERS AND warned us that our step was on forbidden ground, we have pressed too rudely into unwilling confidence, until our well-meant kindness seemed   impertinent and supercilious; that we-have not always remembered that " the race is not always to the swift, or the battle to the strong," and lectured, when we should have sym- pathized; that we have sometimes forgotten   that  ! "God loveth a cheerful giver," and clung too long and closely to his gifts, as to something won by our own s sword and our bow ;" or it may be that we have en- joyed "the luxury of doing good" with too keen a relish-a relish more human than Christian; that over all, and- under all, our honest intent, and justly conscious ability to rule (in the man) wisely and well for others, there has been-unseen, perhaps, by our- selves, but visible enough to others-a strong propen- sity to rule, not a mere vulgar love of domineering, or "insolence of office," but too deep a yearning "to feel power palpably in ourselves," by seeing others suc- cumb to its influence; that hidden away somewhere in the secret recesses of a heart, "deceitful above all things," is too much of that " love of patronizing one's equals or betters,"' which a satirical casuist pronounces "' the better half of human sympathy ; "-that this it is which so often makes us give, freely and cheerfully, when no amount of special pleading or self-flattery can make it any thing else but plain, downright " chari- ty," what we will not give in employ or reward of -honest industry and talent, or less stinted wages to humbler need; and even when, ministering with the most delicate tact to human want, we may have but   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.        145 half. realized the exigency for aid, to secure some pro- mised good, or avoid some untold ill; and forget in our own convenience, the bitter misery of " hope de- ferred," until our gentlest ministrations lost half their power to soothe and bless. If we have forgotten that " man is of three natures, requiring all for charity "-if, unchecked by the rigid lip and husky voice, the averted eye, and tardy reply, we have galled some high-toned, morbidly sensitive spirit almost beyond endurance, by a regular cate- chizing, which even a Barnum's coarse sensibilities and easy morality could feel " enough to make any man swear, without kissing the Bible "--if our own impa- tient -tone or altered bearing has betrayed how ill we brook the evasive answer, or more specific hint, that there may be bounds, which our curiosity has neither right nor need to pass-the slightest dissent from our plans, or want of implicit confidence in us--or, if we have held " the cup of promise to the lip," until its contents lost their richest flavor, what right have we to complain, that after all our unquestionable and un- questioned kindness of general aim, all our actual fa- vors, so little gratitude is felt or showgn? It may be that the recipients have been reminded of them, too plainly and often,--that through our own hu man imperfection grating too harshlyon its counterpart in theirs, we have converted what might have been grati- tude, into a painful sense of obligation; for it is not the better, but more sordid nature, that can bless the largesse which strikes down that " self-respect which is worth more to man than money." The good Dr.     "6      FAMLY PAPERS AND Young, the conscientious Dr. Johnson, could feel that even gold and patronage ' might come too late ; and if we steadfastly close our eyes to the wretchedness we "cannot choose but know," until the want becomes squalid, and the misery abject, then is all our fancied charity no better than refined selfishness--a mere syba- rite feeling, that cannot brook the slovenly, unmannered corpse of animal suffering " between the wind and its nobility." What, NO CHARITY in my half supporting that sick woman ever since her drunken husband got into limbo? No charity in my sending a shroud, and bread, and blankets, and fuel, to that troublesome fellow, that bothered me so with his " little bill?"In my sending drugs, and flannel, and broken victuals, to my old laun- dress, all the while she was laid up with that tiresome rheumatism? In my bailing that fatherless boy I was going to get a place, out of the watch-house, and giv- i ing him a dollar besides? In my spending days and  I days to get that pretty girl, that charged so high for her beautiful embroideries, into the Magdalen Asylum? \ In my heading a handsome subscription, to bury that poor artist who told me so haughtily, that he " wasn't a beggar," and shot himself in a fit of desperation a week after? In all my jellies, and watchings, and months of attention, to that plain seamstress, that caught her death cold coming and going in that thin dress and shawl last winter? Is that meant for me?--or me?-or me? No, sir, no, madam-that is, not specially; for if you ever take the trouble to be honest w;th yourselves, you must Oo   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       147 know how you have answered that prayer, "Lead us not into temptation!" how all that "Rheumatics," or exposure comes, when you " only do like others," and contrive to get three weeks' washing done for two, and make it almost a point of hunor to get the greatest pos- sible amount of work for the least possible pay, and then always make the fractions in change in your own -favor! how you, and just such as you, all over the land, jew and screw until one worker after another drops into the grave of the body or soul! Charity? No! it is nothing but reparation, and very inadequate repa- ration at that.  Twenty loads of coal would not warm into gratitude to-day that father whose child died yes- terday, and day by day, for want of that "LITTLE BILL" --a life of affluence never atone for the lost husband, betrayed by you to the " worm of the still"--a king's mausoleum bring back that frantic soul, that rushed uncalled, an accusing spirit, into the presence of its Maker! Of course, you "'wanted your RENT! You could not patronize all the starveling artists in the country;" but you knew he was starving-he asked for bread, and you gave a stone in the sneering pity of your proffered alms! Do you dare to call that marble shaft--that effort of yours, all praiseworthy as it was. Madam, or even   those liberal appliances, and still kinder nursings, CHARITY?   God grant that it, and they, and all such costly "pounds of cure " preferred to the unpretending " ounce of preventive," may be ac- cepted in seat of repentance, and  offering of atone- ment; that the measure ye mete, be not yet "mea- sured back to you again," through some husband or     "8       FAMLY PAPERS AND son, some sister or daughter now dear and dearly cher- ished as your own life and soul. But " charity is LOVE," and love'which can only look back, never in advance, that will diminish the sum of human happiness for its own caprice, rather than indulge others (when occa- sion serves, and the illusion is harmless) in thinking they have made, or can make, some equivalent for benefits received, is not perfect enough for HM who teaches, that we may " give all our goods to feed the poor," and yet " have not charity!" It is at best only that purblind humanity, which busies itself with the mangled and dying of the present concussion, but takes no thought, lifts no finger, to avert the like catastrophe from the on-coming train. This, however, is not meant chiefly for those who , presumptuously set the lesser charity above the greater, i and heedlessly or wilfully neglect, while raising- the fallen, that truer mercy which " prevents the foot that is ready to slide." No, it is for those mercifully spared, thus far, that fearful gift of second sight, " to see all others' faults and feel our own," which is born so often of a finely organized nature, and long discrepancy be- tween purse and position,--and whQ would gladly do more and better in the service of God and humanity.   I Many such warm-hearted, humble-minded Chris- tians there are, among the lofty, and the lowly, earnest,  willing workers in God's vineyard, who wonder, and   i grieve that they so often fail,-grieve, not so much for i the ingratitude shown to themselves, as Him whose     servants they are; but deeply grieve, when they look around on the mighty work to be done, and back on the   OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.       149 year that is gone, with its record on high; that with all their noble purpose and large benevolence, "so little" has been accomplished. BUT BE NOT DISCOUR- AGED. Though very pleasant it is to read in the dewy lash and kindling eye, that our presence is hailed with a blessing, our footsteps followed by a prayer, it is not for that the Christian labors. "The blessing of him that was ready to perish" may never swell out in all its richness on his earthly ear; but he knows who has said, that " the cup of cold water," given in his name, shall not " lose its reward." The sinful, the. ignorant, "the poor," are with us still; a new unsullied year is ours, let us welcome and hallow the gift, by seeking earnestly of the Giver more of that charity which "tinketh no evil; " more faith in God, more faith in humanity. There is more good with the ill, more grati- tude perhaps to God and to ourselves, than we deem. We are not omniscient- we may after all have misin- terpreted its indications. "The heart will, aye must, leap kindly back to kindness ;" but it is a harp of a thousand strings, andlmany a chord has lost its tone. More discord than melody may often follow our careless hand, or rude, unskilful touch; but there is one touch that never fails, one hand that " giveth liberally and up- braideth not;" let us turn then, meekly and prayer- fully to Him, for a higher wisdom and nicer skill, that we may yet be the "humble instruments in his hands of tuning that harp anew, to sing the praises of God and the Lamb." L L. bJnuary Ist, 1857.     FAMLY PAPERS AD  PARTHIAN ARROWS. "DON'T KNOW WHAT IT ALL MEANS." WELL, it really is deplorable, the way people do misapply their relative pronouns. There, for instance, all common candor, if not good syntax, required the use of who instead of what. But where, in the name of "gumption," have you been mummyizing, all this time, my dear Casper Hauser, number two, never to have heard before, how unblushingly, public and private Secretaries proclaim their own infamy, (contrary to Law and Statute, which require no man to criminate himself,) by publishing, stolen copies of papers to which they had access but no right; nor of other " indivi- duals," "vexatiously and injuriously," detaining docu- ments in transitu, like J. W. W., for example, until forced to give them up by legal process. Old Rip Van Winkle must have been a small cir- cumstance, if you, MR. FREE-AND-ENLIGHTENED, have got to be told, now, in this last half of the nineteenth centu- ry, that those four daughters of old Mrs. Leach, who were eternally crying " GIvE; GIVE, are so far outdone by a gaunt, hungry pack of wolves, called Authors and In- ventors, that the poor, be-plundered Publishers, and Capitalists have to commit petit Larceny, on a grand scale, and infringe Copy and Patent Rights, whenever they can, to indemnify themselves, for the inhuman ex- tortions made in their name, by some of the gang, who impudently insist, on putting at least the Jackal's share of their own brains, in their own pockets, "any how."   And not only that, but actually have to cease consider- ing "Murder, as one of the FINE ARTS,' and degrade "Indirect Assassination," into a mere coarse, every day incidental to the High Art, of "How NOT TO DO IT." And dear, dear, what a time of it, some of them do have, to make some of the rapacious, idle ilk, earn their own monuments, then lie down peaceably and have a \ "tomb of printer's ink wept o'er them ;" and what a pity they do sometimes happen to overdo the matter a little. There's one set of them, and a certain, regular, old hard case, leading, to my certain knowledge, such a dance between the two, that Mrs. Gundy, Mr. World and his wife, and 'all the rest of mankind," stand a pretty fair chance to et all the remarkabilities of that epitaph, "learned and conned by rote," long before they get a chance to record it, (the more's the pity,) but then, "Before one does engage a foe, 'Tis well he should his strength and courage know." A woman, not being "a reasoning animal," cannot of course be expected to reason, but all men ought to be and are, by virtue of the toga, and they might have known better than to expect anybody with " LAWRENCE J.," for a patronymic, ever to "give up the ship," at any- body's summons, so long as there was a single spar afloat, to go down with, though all the lead.and antimonyt of * (It may be James, or Julia, Jayne, or Judd, or Jay, It's not for you, or any printer's imp to say.) t Type metal.      152        FAMLY PAPERS AND                 : the country were drawn up in grand file-ready, willing and waiting--to bury the laurelled dead, with all the: honors. Celebrities of some kinds, though, don't have to die, bona fide, before they can get an Obituary.         There's the amiable and distinguished ABSALOM BESS, now; hundreds upon hundreds all over the country, can testi- fy to having seen him alive and well, divers of times since the Charleston Mercury pronounced his eulogy some four years ago, and much in this wise, ss: " Oh an excellent man was Absalom Bess, At each and every tale of distress, He flared right up, like a rocket; He felt for all who 'neath poverty's dart Were doomed to bear life's roughest part, He felt for them in his inmost heart, But he never felt in his pocket. Yet all said he was an excellent man, For the poor he'd preach, for the poor he'd plan, To better them he was willing ; But the oldest man who had heard him pray, And preach for the poor, in a pitiful way, Couldn't remember exactly to say, He had ever given a shilling. ,But an excellent man was Absalom Bess, And the world threw up its hands to bles 3 Whenever his name was mentioned; But he died, he did, one day, and oh, He went right down to the shades below, Where all, alas, I fear are doomed to go, Who are only good intentioned." Pretty well up to Poet's License, that fib of yours, Mr. Mercury, about the popular gentleman's demise,   rather more than " three removes fro  truth," I fear, and altogether, Mercury four times sublimated, I should call it: but corrosive sublimate didn't seem to kill him ; indeed, I rather think it made him immortal and ubi- quitous, though all his fine TALES, never mollified Lady Lack, when she was about. She no more minded giv- ing his plausible face, " chalked hat," or black coat, a wipe of the pen, than Ap Crab did, hurling his toma- hawk through and through Mr. PAR-I-SEE PHILAN- THROPY S special brevet, to redress all grievances he couldn't reach, and let alone, or never see, all he could -had in short no more respect for that hypocrisy not perfect enough to conceal itself, than he had for that mission to put up a highly rarified, but very cheap sort of Human Sympathy for Bunkumn. In fact, all his demi-civilization never did teach him   how anybody could compromise Religion, or Humanity, by merely crying, -top thzef, when cunning Rascality, was making off securely, under'their stolen cloaks; and if either of those ex-ictors had any true faith in the Religions, or Benevolence of such professed exponents, as never pre- sume to practise any, except ' Iby order of the board," it's more than I'm prepared to say. One of them I know, launches her "Parthian Ar. rows," very freely at all such pompous, canting shams would-be saints and Maecenases, " with the grand  tal- ents' for enacting patron, on the easy terms of dispens- ing those cheap commodities, Promises and Advice;   " but altogether, "Too chary, and saintly, and dignified quite, To read any book that a woman could write;"      154       FAMBLY PAPERS AND and entirely too supercilious not to enact Mentor, to one guilty of such like atrocities, and inform her, clearly enough, how utterly commonsenseless, mediocre, and incompetent to see, know or feel, anything else, that everybody else does, she must per force be;-launches them-as did her ancient prototypes with fatal skill- on turning to leave the field ;-and with such cool reck- lessness, that a consequence " calculating "Down East- ter exclaims, in unaffected amaze, " but M2adam, how dare you?" It's my opinion, " and fire and water couldn't melt it out of me," that she " dare" do anything that's hon- est, say anything that's true, in the haughty assurance that her word requires no confirmation, her dignity no new stamina, to bide the brunt, if need be, of any hand to hand contact with utility-that her position, is no pitiful, mushroom growth, requiring constant watching, and wet nursing, like some spurious Hothouse plant, that might turn to a common weed, if exposed to the common air. And if she's any higher regard than pity and contempt, for the poor, craven, parvenu spirit, in any rank, with no such calm consciousness to sustain it, it's more than I believe. A painted moth might as well expect her to look up, in admiration, or stand back, in awe; she could just as well love, or venerate, in her heart of hearts, that tardy, equivocal Sympathy, which can never feel, until it sees, abject want parading itself, as a beggar does his scars. And I'm afraid she's too little faith in, and small love for, any charity, even the best of the "material " kind, unless it can " help others to help themselves"   EX-OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.      155 without first indelicately, if not arrogantly, taking the NO VALUE offered, or received, for granted, then putting on all sorts of patronizing airs, as if it meant to claim an ovation, or indemnify itself forthwith, by thus pal pably assuming to give, what after all it perhaps only pays. "Oh why," she exclaims in one of her hortatory, Socratic moods, " cannot Beneficence stop, when it has done nobly and well, ministering kindly and freely one moment to the suffering body, without inflicting, in the next, a deeper, and more incurable pang, on the far more suffering spirit? And how can patrons and ben- efactors help knowing, how galling must be this con- tinued, and useless, and needless, recall of the too well known, and most humiliating fact, that they actually do often give in supposed largesse, be the equivalent even- tually what it may; and why can they not rest, till they have effaced all the pleasant sense of present relief, by conjuring up all the " insolence of office," all the indigni- ty, and grief and wrong, and bitter memories, of a bitter history! Why/will they not see, if they cannot feel, how strong, is a11 but the base spirit's impulse, to spurn the aid, so ostentatiously labelled alms-how hard, how very hard, they often make the conventional, I thank you, to pronounce? As for any real gratitude, God, who made the heart, klaows, that it cannot survive, un- der the crushing sense of pain, so wantonly, thought- lessly, cruelly, but, it is to be hoped, unconsciously, in- flicted? Well, so much for Ap Crab and Lady Lack, with their quizzical rhyming, savage and sermonizing veins, and their Chief's incorrigible ideas, that it's extremely im- %/     156       FAMLY PAPERS &ND pertinent to peep under her "double veils,' and say Miss BETSEY TROTWOOD, when she chooses (for the saiGe of peace and quiet, and having a respectable name to fall back upon some day) to say LOUISE ELEMJAY, and outrageously impudent, to dub any woman AUTHORESS that's no sort of kin to that old fop, who wouldn't have hig silk hose mended, because " a hole was ' the accident of the day,' whereas a darn was premeditated poverty," and has mended her own clothes, when she had to fas- ten the seam at both ends and pile up books and pil- lows to sustain her hand under it, even if she does oc- casionally commit rhymes and other " black and white," with the other. And now, my dear Young America, I've my sus- picions, that it's only a hoax, or mock modesty, that surmise of yours, that there may be meanings too recon- dite, recherche for your comprehension; but if you really are of that opinion, and want to know what any- thing else means, let me earnestly and soberly entreat, not indeed that you'd forego a single Circus, Abolition. or Woman's rights Lecture, Cock fight, Opera ticket, Horse race, Fancy ball, game at poker, or " love of a bonnet "-much less sacrifice a poodle dog, or darling moustache, for the good of upholstery, and to purchase some abridged Abridgment, at least, of General History and Ancient Mythology-oh no, that would be asking en- tirely too much; and besides 'twould be no use, for you never could muster nerve to lay down the last new novel, play-bill, dice box, fashion plates, or spierting register, and find time to bore yourself with any such old fogy yarns. I'd as soon expect to see you diving f   EX-OFEICIAL DOCUMENTS.     157 into Benton's THRTY YEARS, or an Encyclopedia, and take it much amiss, that the Graham, and the Godey, and the Putnam's don't help out the Harperl, and get you posted up a little easier, and faster-they should if I could make them--but oh, do, do return to your mother. Do solemnly conjure her, by all the memory of your filial affection, heed of her counsels, and unwearying devotion to her wishes, to exchange her gold rims for steel, sell that ancient tea caddy, and her last silver spoons, mortgage her jointure, and break the clasps from the old Family Bible if necessary, to buy you one Political, Belles lettres, and good Classic Dictionary (with a common English one, to help out some with the ' big words," you know) and lay in enough Lager beer, cigars, Schnapps, smoking-caps, bon bons, and guipure extra, to coax you and Sis, by double allowance, to lie down quietly-head on sofa, heels on mantel, and sprawl, slipshod, on music stool, while she, Mamma, humbly asks leave to put her cushion, instead of prayer book, under your feet, a little " premeditated poverty " into her stockings, lights your cigar, hands her vinai- grette, -and respectfully implores you both to listen, while she not only "reads," but "' splains and spounds." She'll do it, I havn't a doubt, if you only ask her, Ior she's uncommonly dutiful, and you are perfectly "irresistible." J. LAWRENCE MELvILLE, o rated Ad Inter " to the cx-firm of C(N SoI Lici RA.     L5T8  FAMLY PAPERS AND EX-OFFICIAI DOCUMENTS. NO ROOM. AtI WAS A STRANGER, AND YE TOOK ME -NOT IN," Shut out from life's homes, crushed down in the craod, Alone in life's haunts, alone in the inn, Alone in my sorrow, and shunned by the proud, As if trace of deep wrong were brand of dark sin; "No ROOM" in the palace, the cottage, the hall, No rest for my foot, on the hearthstone I see; "No ROOM " for the stranger wherever I call- Will the " low, narrow house " have any for me I No room for my love in affection's fond fold, No room for my song in the world's madd'ning din; No ROOM IN THE WORLD-aye, the same world of old, That found for its Master "No ROOM IN THE INN." No room for the Maker and Saviour of all, Who came to " his own " and they welcomed him nc I I No room, but the stable, the manger, the stall: Hast thou, lone and homeless, so lonely a lot? Is it much for thee, then, to be as thy Lord? Say, little of faith, is thy courage so small Earth's " cup of cold water " may not win reward, But the thirst of his soul, it mocked with its gall, The crimson-hued agony welled from his brow, Yet FATHER FORGIVE, from his writhing lips fall; And " a house without hands," he is building it now1  Shame on thee, faint heart, to murmnr at all L. ELEMJAY.   OUR TIMES. IN the " old fogy" times, when men were not wise, A Deesse there was much esteemed in their eyes To lack the fair VIRTUE were scandalous shame, And more dearly than life they cherished her fame The sad, weary stranger she sheltered with care, And her iEgis once spread, the foeman must spare. With salt of true welcome, she garnished her feast, The hearth was her altar, its master her priest. Her Temples were legion, our own sunny clime Had worshippers true of that virtue sublime; But sons of those old, noble worshippers true When ye wandered afar to homes that were new, Forgot ye the Lares that hallowed the hearth In the clime of the South, the land of your birth? Virginia's old pride, Kentucky's high name, Do ye barter them both for wages of shame? Oh soul of the South, shall I see thee no more- Does she cling to it yet, her high-hearted lore? If SHE spurn in hot haste, like minions of might, The prayer of the victim that's struggling for right, Woe, woe, for the heart of high chivalry gone, The hope of the weak, that is trampled upon, And woe for "the feeling's rust, the spirit's blight," The life of life's sunshine, enshrouded in night, The name of the ".stranger," that's "sacred " no more, The heart of Humanity wedded to ore I Oh mourn for the Deesse, whose altars are cold, For the life that is young, the heart that is old. A gnome sits enthroned where she queened it of yore, Double-barred is the heart, fast locked is the door,     160         OUR TIMES.  Her hearth-fire is out, her " latch-string" drawn in, No key but a gold one admission can win,          ' No angels are e'er entertained u' unawares,        ) No ," room " find they now, sans the gold-dust or " shares." X We've fallen 'tis clear on " respectable " days,       Refined past enduring " half-civilized ways." True marble to Mammon we build, and (for eye Want-stricken to death) marble lies to the sky  With " untempered mortar " we stucco our creeds, Put religion in words, but little in deeds, And they " on the mountains," glad tidings who bring,     May starve as they list, dance, fiddle or sing,  If with common Hall free, they can't make a swell, Poor showmen they are, stupid yarns they must tell. Who serve at," should " live of the altar," we read,    i Let them eat altar then, we'd have them indeed.      i Money-graspers of old, with scourges were taught,      That God's house was "HOLY," though ev'ry one brought   i His own merchandise there, to buy and to sell-       j Don't see for our part, but they did pretty well,     i. Never heard them accused of selling the wall,  Or smearing the floor, with tobacco, at all.         Perhaps they did put stolen silks in their pews, Sell villainous wines, swindle men of their dues, (As some church-goers do, to this very day,) And plan an extortion when kneeling to pray, Rob widow and orphan, and many such things, Yet talk all the while quite as- gracious as kings, For certes, they caught it, those graceless old Jews, But we're -too clever far, to stand in their shoes; Think nice, pattern Parson is needed in town, To do up the work other people lay down. Then we like a " good preach," and feel no remorse, If to " give us a talk,' he hire his own horse.   FAMLY PAPERS.          161 Should he ask for a dime, we think it a waste Of his time and ours, and in very bad taste. He might as well call broken promises " lies,'s  (We rather suspect that the skin's off our eyes) Six days," he does say, we are welcome to use, In gratitude then, the " seventh," we'll abuse; "And Death mean to distance, by dashing on ' fast' Avenues are nothing, Elysium means CASTE ; " And caste that is formed in the gnome's dirty mould, What's Ithuriel's touch to impress of gold? What's worth without wealth, should the poor silly one Come asking for bread, we can give it " a stone." What's SENSE to "red cents," will it buy, will it lend, Or attention secure to your very sick friend? Quite " sick " he must \be, to expect that we will, Any promise we make, feel bound to fulfil;. For respectable nose we'te turned up so high "Stuck-up " piety lives, por virtue must die. Alas for the tety, false to its core. For the virtue's fair fame, now stainless no more, And alas for the Faith. that honored the Laun, For honor's bright shield, that the rust is upon; Yes alas for the time, when COMMERCE IS KING, If iron to the heart, with each iron horse he bring, If the RUTH, and the TRUTH, men worshipped ere then, He must crush in his path, like the children 6f men.       a Oh mourn for the old HOSPITALITY fled, Till her echo comes back, like voice of the dead, From far southern climes, where will float her last breath, When " ruffians " and " shriekers " have done her to death. 1Nov. 1857.     MANNY NOT MANLY. On an express-offcer, who, upon the PALPABLY FALSE pretext of a DOUBLE back-charge, extorted double the fee specified in advance, on a small package; well knowing it to be the very last cent of a peculiarly helpless Invalid, thus left, as he also knew, without means even to mail the busi- ness letter then in hand. JEW SHYOCK of Venice, as all must confess, Wasn't sharp, like Jew Shylock of Adams' Express. "One pound," said the ' bond,' of that Shylock of old, And he claimed but the one, we're credibly told. This Manny (not man) says '" one dollar will do," But when the time comes, "Mannie " robs you of two; And a dime more to win, by playing that role, Would shave out the life, and sell out the soul. No lien upon his "Ancient Henry:' should take, Non inventus 'twould prove, and "Auld Scotia," break. MONTGOMERY, ALA., June, 1st, 1858. LADY LACK'S PARTING COMPLIMENTS, To the very latest "Proxy Lecturers," WHO think honest efforts for independent subsistence, very reprehensible, in a Lady of rme standing and INTELLIGENCE. TEN :RIGHTEOUS, old Sodom had saved, but here, "Ten righteous " are not, I very much fear.   FAMLY PAXPERS.        163 Nervous-very--on social position, It couldn't have been their normal condition, \ Poor, parvenu wretches, strayed to the Southl With copper in purse, hadr't ought in their mouth-- Now, wiseacres grown, for mending the race, \ And saying what's what, in ev'ry one's case, Christianity's arch, they climb up so high, Their life-work is next, to give it the lie. If high lore you want, they are there, but when Good deeds are the thing, they're all busy then. Some rich man to greet, a week/they could spend, No moment of time, to serve a sick friend. To plebeian dolt, perhaps they might "give," But talent, and rank, shouldn't honestly live. Seek almshouse and die, they tacitly say, The measure they mete, think none will repay; But "God is not mocked," the measure .each metes, May come backl again, in these very streets-1 God pity them then, their own cherished ones, When asking for " bread," they get only!" stones." Many " dreeds " have the base, few paeans have you Earth's noble and gentle, its pure, and its true ; But each deed has its meed, and spirits of love, Your deeds are below, their reward is above, Where cups of " cold water," rightly given on earth, Drop dews of Elysium, and diamonds of worth. Heart-memories live, and our God ne'er forgets The gems that His hand in earth's coronet sets. MaBrON, ALA., Jan. 18th, 1859.     
         
      
   
