
    ----CITATION----
        Edgerton, Wild.. Railroad Life in America .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6364
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               RAILROAD LIFE IN AMERICA. 
             
            BY WILD EDGERTON.
             
             
                
                  
                      
                        Not to be blest with warrior strength, 
                        To wield the sword and wear the glaive, 
                        Or rise to conqueror's fame at length, 
                        Proclaims the good or makes the brave. 
                     
                      
                        To have the power to bide the scorn, 
                        And rise above the hate and strife, 
                        Of those to wealth and title born, 
                        Is the crown'd courage of our life. 
                     
                      
                        What are the swords that prop a king- 
                        The banners in his army's van- 
                        To strength of soul that dares to spring 
                        And show the monarch in the MAN? 
                     
                   
                  -C. D. STUART 
                
             
            
               BIRNEY HAND & COMPANY; 
               CHICAGO.
             
            1870. 
          
          
             
            TO THE EMPLOYES OF THE ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILWAY, AMONG WHOM THE AUTHOR OF "RAILROAD LIFE IN AMERICA" PASSED MANY OF THE HAPPIEST DAYS OF HIS LIFE, THIS BOOK IS RESPECTFULLY AND MOST AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED BY 
            
               WILD EDGERTON.
             
          
          
             
            A PRELIMINARY PUFF! 
            BY WAY OF INTRODUCTION. 
            Not a puff of our book, dear reader; that business expedient is left to the dealer, in his advertisement. And not a puff of steam, for that we cannot have until the boiler is heated. But, let us say, a little puff of smoke from the kindling fire, in whose fanciful forms you may catch just a shadowy outline of the long railway journey we are about to take together. 
            Perhaps there will be some, among our many friends, who will consider "RAILROAD LIFE IN AMERICA" too pretentious a title for the rambling record which follows. If any such there be, let them reconcile themselves thereto by the reflection that "RAILROAD LIFE," though briefer and more simple, would have been none the less ambitious and objectionable, while promising or implying much more. 
            Our dealings are confined to American Railway Life exclusively, as the title suggests; and though, for the sake of greater compactness and convenience of narration, the incidents are presented as occurring in the limits of a single line, they are, in reality, gathered from many and widely separated roads. And, though sifted from the gleanings of twenty years experience and observation, they have been condensed into a much shorter period, since it has not not been thought necessary to string out our story through the fifth of a century. 
            An effort has been made to convey to those who live outside of the world of which we treat, a fair idea of what makes up the lives of those industrious, faithful, earnest workers in railway ranks who, while mostly invisible and unknown, are ever pushing forward and keeping in motion the grand commercial highways of the country; who are standing always tirelessly by the mighty steam looms of the Union, and directing their rushing iron shuttles which weave a nation's wide-spreading States into one. The wonders they accomplish are patent to all. The part they play in developing a free people's greatness, wealth and power is too plainly apparent, and too often the theme of admiration and wonder, to call for repetition here. But no one, until now, has penetrated or gone behind this curtain of palpable and conspicuous facts, and, in the interest of the public, looked into the lives of those who achieve the miracles over which men marvel. This has been your author's grateful task, and, in performing it, he has endeavored to handle respectfully and candidly the valuable material in hand. Avoiding the introduction of a bewildering multiplicity of characters, which would have precluded the possibility of more than a mere glance at each, comparatively few specimens are brought prominently before the reader's observation, and the fortunes of these are, in most cases, closely and circumstantially followed. The attributes of the many are bestowed upon the few, for the sake of illustration; and, though regarded in the light of what is possible, in this exhaustless field of exploration, our picture seems but a sketch, after all, it is hoped the companions of our tour will find sufficient that is entertaining along the way to compensate for the trouble of the trip. 
            It is just possible that some few railroad men will fail to be pleased with this record, where it fails to accord with their own past or present experiences. Railroaders are now counted by tens of thousands in America, and, of course, everyone's busy life has its own variations from the general features we have drawn as an average, and have had trials and adventures not recorded in this book, and gone through dangers and difficulties not here set down. Others, again, may never have met with the principal features which are set forth in our work, and may even never have heard of its more striking characteristics in the sphere of their labors. To such it will appear fanciful and unreal-perhaps fantastic and absurd. But let none doubt the existence of what is written, and let those who criticise omissions consider what must be the proportions of a volume which should present the personal experiences of every individual on every railroad in the country! This apprehension of incredulity is a source of regret; but it is pleasant to believe-nay, to positively know that, for one disaffected, there will be hundreds to recognize and do justice to the truth of our narrative. 
            Accept, if you please, the best endeavor of one who has earnestly sought to be accurate in detail, as well as entertaining, and whose hope has been to make a book not wholly unworthy of those for whom it was more especially intended. He has written "a plain, unvarnished tale," resisting all inclination to construct an elaborate and ambitious work. He has diligently sought to write comprehensively, unostentatiously, and in such a simple style as should recommend his effort cordially to the humblest, as well as the highest; and secure it a welcome to the hearts and homes of even the least practised readers in railway service. This must not be construed into an implication that to meet any special railroad patronage he has needed to write down to any particular level. Far from it. There is such a degree of intelligence among the operatives and mechanics of American Railways, that one well might be proud of an ability to reach their high standard of excellence, and meet the reward of their approval. But, with the labors, both mental and bodily, which fill full the cycle of their daily lives, the writer knows very well that, turning to literature, as they do, for recreation, something light and simple is much more gratifying to them, generally, than books more labored and more learned. 
            Two or three of the stories, not original, which have been introduced, came into the author's possession anonymously, and, reaching him in the form of "clippings," it has been impossible to indicate their origin. This circumstance is unfortunate but unavoidable. Other, briefer fragments, which are borrowed for our purposes, are acknowledged, and credit is assigned at the point of insertion. 
            Our heartiest thanks must be herein expressed to both agents and purchasers, throughout the country, for an unparalleled enterprise and liberality by which we are assured of many thousands of readers in advance. It is earnestly hoped that the remarkable confidence so unhesitatingly manifested will prove not to have been in any degree misplaced; and that this flattering exhibition of faith in an humble author's ability to fulfill what was promised, will not find itself entirely unrewarded. 
            The author confesses himself quite unable to express his emotions of gratitude for those cheering letters of compliment, congratulation and encouragement which have poured in upon him since a knowledge of the preparation of this volume has gone abroad. These sacred evidences of fraternal regard, coming chiefly from old companions in the labor of the past, are held in an esteem which words are wholly powerless to convey. They are valued among those rare and choice blessings of heaven, which reconcile us to life's "sea of troubles," which render our hardest tasks easy by the inspiration they impart, which nerve us anew for the conflicts of existence, and which are not to be forgotten-O, never to be forgotten! 
            With the foregoing smoke-puff of explanation, casting a shadowy impression on the mind of our amiable reader, it is believed that our railroad companion, at least, will be able to proceed with us pleasantly, and perhaps profitably, to the end of our journey, avoiding both accident and misunderstanding. 
            And if he will sit by our side as we travel, and regard our tale simply as the unpolished gossip of a garrulous tourist who has made the trip hundreds of times, and points out such objects of interest as present themselves at various stages of the route, we shall certainly arrive at a happy congeniality, and, in time, become the very best friends in the world. 
            
               WILD EDGERTON. 
               CHICAGO, August, 1870.
             
          
       
      
         
            Railroad life in America 
             
                
               CHAPTER I. 
               GETTING UP STEAM. 
               "Yonder's the way, young man." 
               Old Hardy rested one rough hand familiarly on Livingston's shoulder, as he spoke, and pointed with the other across a broad, low stretch of bottom-land which seemed to have been recently overflowed, but now on its marshy soil grew weeds and wild-flowers in profusion. 
               "Foller that there temprary track across the flat," continued the volunteer guide, "and ef ye've got a right-smart, lively pair o'legs under ye, ye'll make the bluff in twenty minutes or so." 
               Edward Livingston was freshly emancipated from the restraints of college life, and he turned eagerly away from the wearisome theories of books to the practical experiences of existence, with a joyous, even a boyish enjoyment of the change. Full of the faith and hope which are born of youth and inexperience, and which, in some bright lives, may possibly outlive the hidden storms that lie before, young Livingston went forward cheerfully and with confidence to the destiny which awaited him. 
               It was early spring. The low ground of the valley over which he passed, with bounding steps, was a rich mosaic of brilliant colors, set in a field of green, its monotony only broken by a rudely-constructed, temporary railroad track, which, with many eccentric curves, wound its way river-ward, in defiance of rules scientific. A civil engineer might have gone insane at sight of its independent, unaccountable meanderings. But Ned Livingston had learned little of civil engineering; indeed, little enough of anything else, useful and practical, had been taught him by his classical professors. So his untutored eye was spared the pain of beholding all the enormities of this rustic construction struction, as he swung himself along beside it as gay as an uncaged bird. It was early morning-just daybreak; but he knew by the golden glow on the hills, lying eastward, that the sun was shining beyond them. In the valley, however, it was shady still, and a soft breeze, refreshing, pure and fragrant, was sweeping through it with a plaintive, scarce distinguishable music. Ned took off his hat and let the cool air blow through his auburn hair. Its effect was electrical. He lost all timidity at thought of the unaccustomed duties which lay before him-all thought of the strange, new life at hand, and the meeting with strangers in a questionable place, which had been described to him as rough, wild and almost uncivilized. In truth, the future seemed to fade away from him entirely as he strode along, drinking the new-born morning's balmy breath and enjoying the rich, sweet perfume with which it was laden. The man is truly to be pitied who cannot look back, from his present position in the ranks of humanity, whatever it is, upon a similar freedom from care at the threshold of life's battle. 
               It was the last hour of perfect independence young Livingston was destined to know for years to come. He has walked the same path often since; and sometimes with a heavy heart and aching brow-for bondage chafed him, gentle though it was-but to this day he cannot tread the weed-grown way without some pleasant recollections of that first glad time, flooding his heart with joy again, as if youth and spring-time had come back to him. 
               This is the scene which enclosed the broad valley: to the right, a few miles down-stream, the town of Poland lay; its spires and roofs seemed resting on a drift of foliage which, wet with the morning's moisture, shone with peculiar brightness in the early sunlight. To the left, as Livingston faced his destination, Pickatonic, stood a row of stone piers, like sentinels in grey, on which a mighty bridge was building. When the first red rays of the sun fell on the upper portion of this wonderful structure, it was transformed into a bridge of gold, and seemed like a work of magic, stretching from bluff to bluff, as it did- over river, valley and a broad canal. At all events, it was a glorious sight, and as it caught Ned Livingston's quick glance, he paused a moment, lost in admiration at its temporary splendor. But, pressing onward again, he came at length to the bank of the river-a stream now dwindled into reasonable proportions, but mighty and terrible in the earlier spring, when freshets have swollen it and driven it over the flat in a wild career of wanton destruction. Before our pilgrim now loomed up the frowning bluff and the village of Pickatonic. Here he had need to pause, for the temporary pile bridge-everything was temporary, there and then-had been purposely rendered impassable to foot passengers, and, as usual, the ferry-boat was "on the other side." 
               "Ferry ahoy! ferry ahoy!" shouted Livingston; but the only answer was the echo-'hoy-'hoy-'hoy, indefinitely repeated. He sat down upon a moss-cushioned log by the bank to wait for a chance to cross, and to survey more deliberately the mysterious proceedings on an inclined plane opposite. The plane was very steep, but a track of rails was laid upon it which connected with the bridge, and "bottom" tracks, making the line continuous. On the summit of the bluff stood a stationary engine, coughing away with spasmodic puffs, curious to behold and most painful to hear. Through an opening in the building enclosing this asthmatic piece of machinery, a large roller, or drum, was visible from which a huge rope was slowly uncoiling, its end drawn down the steep descent by a tired-looking little horse. This weary steed was ridden by a bright-eyed, brown-faced, shabbily-dressed young fellow, whom Livingston afterward knew as "Little Frank." one of the favorites of the line. This promising youngster exhibited his ingenuity in equestrianism by reversing the general order of things, and riding with his face to the animal's tail-which appendage served in lieu of reins, and kept Master Frank from sliding off in front. It seemed a question between this method or walking, and it was one of the young man's noted "points"-remembered and widely commented upon when he, later, achieved distinction-never to do anything as any one else had done it, and to make available every chance of life which Yankee shrewdness could put to service. Riding front foremost was impossible, as the nearly perpendicular line of the horse's back would have shed over his neck and ears any burthen less agile than a monkey. Walking was not agreeable. So Master Frank rode, and rode in his own original way. It mattered not to him that the proceeding as conducted by him was unusual, unnatural, absurd; it accomplished his end, and against this argument a world of ridicule might have been hurled in vain. 
               Is there not one great secret of success in this? Livingston had reason to believe so, years after, when he saw this poor and humble toiler on the plain, mounting great obstacles that barred his way, and pressing forward, heroically, to the goal of his ambition. And that boy had lived one life already. 
               Reaching level ground at the foot of the plane, the horse was detached, the rider reversed his position, and, in a moment more, they had both disappeared amid the shrubbery which hid a winding side-path. Then a mighty iron hook, attached to the end of the rope which had been drawn down, and which looked as if it might hold a world, was put through an equally strong-looking loop on the side of a loaded car that stood waiting on the bridge with others. The car was detached from its fellows, a signal was given, the feeble coughing up above abandoned its asthmatic character, and, amid a series of more harsh and energetic demonstrations, like a strong man with a heavy cold, the ponderous vehicle, with its weight of freight, moved swiftly and noiselessly up the steep ascent. And thus, for many months-nearly two years-was conducted all the freight and passenger traffic of a railway which has grown to be one of the greatest in the country. The inclined plane feature was a novelty to Livingston, and he looked over at its marvelous workings with absolute wonder, fairly holding his breath, and moving uneasily on the cushioned log, as the car vanished amid clouds of steam on the bluff-top. He could not but think, uneasily, as thousands of others had thought before, with far more cause to fear than he, "What if the rope should break!" It did not break just then, however; and our wondering pilgrim had hardly given utterance to the terrible suggestion when the tired little horse, again emerging from steam-clouds above, came patiently down once more with the iron hook at his heels, and the ingenious juvenile on his back. 
               But, before the process of elevating a second car could be accomplished, a venerable-looking ferryman appeared on the stream, pulling his leaky boat across with provoking deliberation. How well Livingston came, in time, to know that ancient deliberate individual! And how often he had occasion to remember that first introduction. Instinctively he felt that the man was an "irrepressible" bore. 
               "I reckon you're a goin' ter work on the railroad, hey?" 
               This was the ferryman's salutation to his youthful passenger, as that party hastened aboard the diminutive, dubious-looking scow which for years had threatened destruction to pedestrian pilgrims in that same place. Scarcely noticing the old man's remark, beyond giving him a careless nod, which might have meant almost anything, Livingston leaned over the railing and looked dreamily down into the clear, still water. 
               "Is there good fishing here?" he inquired at length, taking a comprehensive survey of the old fellow, in a glance. 
               "Right smart chance," was the incomprehensible reply. 
               "Fishing-fishing, I say," persevered Livingston. "Are there fish in this river?" 
               "Wal, I reckon," was the ferryman's very positive and satisfying response. The questioner relapsed into silence, and actually never discovered, either then or afterwards, whether the river furnished fish or not. He often endeavored to find out, later, by the use of a hook and line, and an industrious application of inquiry to the stream itself. It proved as unaccommodating, however, as the ferryman, and never yielded up any tangible evidence. Half-way over, the boatman stopped his pulling to pocket five cents, demanded from his passenger, and then, returning to his rope and his original attack, at the same time, said: 
                
               "Ther hain't no use o' puttin' on airs with me. Ef yer a goin' inter the Soop's office, ye'll see me around a few, I reckon. I hev more'n a little business with the Coe." 
               "Indeed!" exclaimed the indifferent passenger. "How's that?" 
               "Why, ye see this here's a chartered ferry, and since the railroad Coe put up yonder bridge, the law's gin me the right ter charge 'em five cents a head on every tarned one they carries over. They hates it awful, and they squirms; but I've got 'em-I've got 'em." This venerable leech on the railway treasury, whose manners were those of a Quilp, again abandoned his monotonous professional tugging at the ferry-rope to exhibit, as evidences of his boasted power, a handful of dirty, green tickets, which, in addition to the name of the railroad, and the statement, "Good for one passenger," bore also the indescribable autograph of Cushing Borie. There had been no bailing of the leaky scow during this prolonged passage, and now, though only two-thirds of the way across, it was so rapidly filling that Livingston called old Borie's attention to the fact with some alarm, and, throwing aside his traveling satchel, prepared himself to lend a hand to the oblivious ferryman. Just then a small locomotive, coming from the bottom which Livingston had so recently traversed, thundered on to the rough pile bridge, some twelve or fifteen feet above the heads of the boatman and his anxious victim. This engine had its own errand, and played an important part, as Livingston soon enough discovered, in the economy of the temporary system to which he was being gradually introduced; but now the Engineer appeared to be using it for his own amusement, though possibly engaged in pumping-up, or doing some other necessary thing, the importance of which would not at once appear to the uninitiated. At all events, he halted just over the ferry-boat, after an abortive attempt to give Livingston and Borie a douche bath from one of the pet-cocks of his engine-pump, and thrusting a frizzled, brown head out of the cab, gave utterance to a bit of advice, in a voice which might have rivaled a steam whistle: 
               "I say, old Bore, you and your man there had better put a little more muscle on that rope, or your d--d old tub will go to h-l before you get her across." 
               Livingston hated the sneering tone of that piercing voice on the instant, and the insult of being called Borie's "man" gave him a thrill of indignation which did not soon subside. Danger was really at hand, however, and there was no time for nursing anger against the impertinent engineer. Ned took one look at the mocking face which looked down contemptuously on them from the dark frame-work of the open cab window, and then fell to work with an energy that surprised even himself, and soon brought the fast-sinking boat to its harbor. But the boisterous laughter and sarcastic applause of the rude fellow on the locomotive rang painfully in Livingston's sensitive ears, and he remembered Jim Hook's smoky, sharp, unprepossessing face, long afterwards, with anything but friendly feelings. Our pilgrim was afflicted with his first antipathy. But it was not destined to endure forever. Once safely on shore he stood, bewildered and indignant, scarcely knowing whether to ignore and treat with dignified silence the Engineer's marked personality, or to give him a stinging rebuke. It was well for the future that fate settled the question. Some empty cars were, at that moment, lowered down the plane, in place of little Frank's horse, bearing the cable, and Hook's engine being made fast to them, he quickly turned over the reversing bar, opened the throttle and steamed away backward, across the weed-grown flat. How should the wounded Livingston, young, hot-blooded and new to the roughness of this strange life, suspect that, under the grim exterior of that unrefined, uncivil Engineer, were hid the elements of a hero; and how should he dream that a time would ever come when the tones of that sharp voice would fall upon his ears like welcome music; when that smutty face would look encouragement into his own, and a pair of coarse, soiled hands, belonging with the voice and face, would hold him back from an early, sudden death? 
               Wearily, and more thoughtful and subdued than before, Ned Livingston commenced the ascent of the inclined plane, not, however, before a backward glance revealed to him old Borie-"old Bore" was his name among the railroad boys-neglecting the needful bailing of his afflicted boat, to drag from his pocket a ponderous, greasy memorandum-book and enter up, with useless flourishes, a charge of fifteen cents against the railway company, or "Coe," as he called it. This was composed as follows: Ten cents for the Engineer and Fireman, and five cents for a Brakeman, who, in passing from one end of the departing train to the other, had crossed the entire length of the bridge-a proceeding which entitled Borie to just as much revenue by virtue of his chartered ferry. 
               Declining a ride, which was kindly offered by a young man who managed brakes on the incline, Livingston clambered slowly up the bluff-side after an ascending car, taking care not to get directly behind it, and pausing occasionally for breath, or for a look at the changing landscape, or, perhaps, to wonder, in a boyish fashion, how many times, in days to come, he might be destined to mount the same steep way. Not often on foot. He learned quite soon to have confidence in the giant rope, and always to ride up the plane when riding was possible. About half-way to the bluff's bright crest, the climbing pilgrim found it necessary to make a considerable halt, for his puffing seemed likely to rival the asthmatic engine aloft, and fatigue bade him rest. So he seated himself on a stump in the shade of a spreading oak, and, facing the river, let his eyes, with enchantment, retrace the long course he had come through the valley. The morning sun now flooded all things with glory. The dew-bathed rails of the eccentric temporary track glistened like bars of silver. There were diamonds scattered among the grass and flowers upon the low bank opposite, and thick through the blooming weeds, decking the wide-spreading bottom beyond. The newly-leaved trees were flashing with tremulous emeralds, which were not only mirrored, but multiplied many times over in the water below. The shadow of the great, unfinished bridge, with its thousands of interlaced braces and beams, lay dark on the stream, afar up the flat, and, close to its most distant terminus, clustered the high roofs and gables of a city, Salell. Unlike its former self as the view now appeared, it was glorious still, and brighter and far more cheering than when wrapped in the shadowy mantle of earlier morning. Again there was a breath of inspiration in the gentle breeze which fanned our pilgrim's cheeks, and the beautiful landscape dispelled every troublesome thought. 
               Refreshed and rested, Livingston advanced with a lighter step to the end of his tramp, and finally stood, wondering and disenchanted, in the streets of Pickatonic. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               STALLED AT THE TERMINUS. 
               Pickatonic was emphatically a railroad village. Built chiefly by the railroad company for its own purposes, and almost exclusively occupied by its own employes-the exceptions being a store, which was also a hotel and a gin shop, and a shoemaker's shop, whose versatile presiding genius was also a preacher-the temporary town presented few attractions to those who judged it hastily and by externals. To Livingston the place looked cheerless enough, and the prospect of making it his home, for any-indefinite period, was one not calculated to inspire him with particular delight. Looking about, he beheld on one side the stationary engine-house, a rough, unpainted structure, filled with grim-looking forms and strange, incessant, deafening noises-for the building was used for a work-shop as well as a shelter for the asthmatic machine which gave it a name. On the other side, close to the brow of the hill, stood a little, white house, with a low porch in front, which was graced with the name of Leonardi; while over the way, from this classic resort, and just in the rear of the engine-house shop, rose the front of a depot, or station house, employed both for freight and the transfer of passengers from large, heavy coaches into the smaller and much lighter cars used on the plane. This depot had been liberally smeared with yellow paint, by hands inexperienced, and with its high, sloping platform and dingy little windows, it was not altogether an attractive feature. Two more habitable buildings, a large and a small one, further along, which had, however, evidently undergone the same smearing process as the depot, presenting an equally jaundiced complexion, and looking like an old yellow cat with one kitten, were used as dwelling-house and office respectively; and beyond them again, over piles of bright foliage, towered the huge, smoky roof of the engine-house proper-the stable of the locomotives. Fill in the sketch with a few brown sheds and shanties, and you have, briefly, the full-length portrait of a place which bore an important part in the early history of a great railroad, but which has, to-day, as completely vanished from the face of the earth as if it had met the dread fate of Pompeii. It was not intended, like Shakespeare, "for all time," and, having acted its part well, has disappeared, as a good player should when his lines are spoken. Livingston knew it was only a temporary town. He had been told that when the great bridge over the bottom was completed, the course of the railroad would be changed, and Pickatonic, deserted by its occupants, stripped of its tenements, and shorn of its business, activity and life, be left to loneliness, desolation and speedy destruction. 
               With this knowledge, everything about him wore a temporary look. Even an old woman, in an extraordinary cap composed principally of border, looked decidedly temporary, as she came out of the doorway labelled Leonerdi, and beckoned the tired pilgrim to enter. Livingston was glad of another chance to rest, and, wishing to make some enquiries concerning the place and its people, he innocently and thankfully accepted Madam Leonardi's unceremonious invitation, and walked very unconsciously into the one gin palace of the bluff, at the heels of his polite hostess. His entrance was greeted with a shriek, and another temporary-looking female, partially disrobed, appeared to the pilgrim's astonished eyes for an instant, and then dove down into some hidden depth behind the bar. A great rattling of empty bottles accompanied her cry of distress, which was followed by others diminishing in vigor, and in the midst of the confusion Livingston would gladly have beaten a retreat; but Madam Leonardi pushed him a little roughly into a chair and laughed at his blushes. 
               "Don't mind the gal," she said. "You ain't the first feller that's seen Clotty undressed, by a jug full." 
               She appeared to be getting dressed by a good many jugs full, Livingston ingston thought, by the rattle of crockery and glass which accompanied the progress of the lady's toilet behind the bar; but he said nothing. How could he? 
               A voice from the subterranean dive cried angrily: 
               "Ma, I think you might of waited for me to get on my gownd." 
               "Now, Clotty, just hush right up," returned the unsympathizing Madam; "if somebody didn't come in to hurry you up, you wouldn't get dressed, any day, afore noon. It sarves ye jest right-jest right." 
               When Miss Clotilda Leonardi finally emerged from her impromptu and apparently very limited dressing-room behind the bar, her face was as red as if the contents of one of her mother's little brown jugs had been accidentally spilled down her throat during the process of robing; and she looked considerably less temporary than at the instant of disappearing, even to the extent of appearing quite substantial and permanent. Considerably larger than her venerable parent, there was yet a striking family resemblance between them, and both were unspeakably ugly. A merry sparkle in the old woman's beady, black eyes, gave an almost comical youthfulness to a face otherwise wrinkled and seamed into an antiquity no one would question: and yet the best and truest description of the amiable dame is embraced in the title of a young old woman. 
               Clotty might with equal propriety have been called an old young woman, as her features had age blended in their composition to the same extent that her mother's had youth. They were an odd-looking pair. Both had coarse, black hair, low brows, small, shining eyes, flat, flaring noses, that turned up at the ends most distressingly, lipless mouths and elongated chins. 
               After Mother Leonardi had put a pin in an unreachable position at the top of Miss Clotilda's dress behind, and that flushed virgin had located herself on a reclining whiskey barrel, with her knees drawn up to her chin, her long, strong arms folded around them, and two rows of bare and dirty toes appearing just below the scant, soiled drapery of her robe, the elder lady opened conversation. 
                
               "I heered ther was a young feller expected from Cargo to take the place o' 'tother young un as was turned away. Be you the chap?" 
               "I have come to take a position on the railroad as secretary to Superintendent Wynworth," answered Livingston, amiably; "but I was not aware that it was a place which had been previously occupied." 
               "Nuthin' else," said Clotty. 
               "O, law, yes," exclaimed Mother Leonardi, glad to have something so important to communicate; "and they did jest set that coon a flyin' jest like a kite." 
               "Do you know for what reason?" enquired Ned, wondering what misdoing could have deserved such lofty rial punishment as that typified by the flight of a kite, and thinking of his own possible elevation in the future. 
               "Small pertaters," said Clotty, waving herself to and fro until the whiskey in the barrel beneath her splashed violently, like waves on the sea shore. 
               "Knowed too much," said the old woman, winking at Livingston in a familiar way he neither liked nor understood. "Knowed too much; got ahead too fast; was in danger of dischargin' the Super, the Paymaster, the Master Mechanic and all, and runnin' the road himself. But the Super got the start of him and sent him a humpin'." 
               "Sure pop," said Clotty. 
               "A orful wise chap, was Bodkins," continued Madam Leonardi,-"a orful wise chap. I hope you don't know too much nor nothin', hey? Young fellers which sets out with too much larnin', and wants to teach ther grannies to suck eggs, is always sure to get took down a peg or two, and that's shoemaker talk up to the handle" 
               "And more too," said Clotty. 
               Livingston laughed at the mother's positive philosophy and the daughter's superlative endorsement, which contained a grain of truth, inelegantly expressed; but he had little fear of coming to grief through the difficulty that had elevated the unhappy Bodkins; rather 
                     anticipating ing
                     anticipating
                   trouble from too little rather than excessive knowledge of the work lying ing before him. He said as much in a pleasant way, to the ancient dame who had gone to washing tumblers with all that was left of a damaged right hand, (it was minus two fingers); and, moreover, explained that being inspired with no ambition to instruct any venerable female relatives in the primitive methods of abstracting the meat of eggs from their shells, he hoped to escape giving offense in that way at least. 
               "Over the left," said Clotty. 
               Livingston thought Miss Leonardi a little inclined to slang. The Madam shook her ancient head until the marvelous cap-border waved like a loaded clothes-line in a gale. But this negative gesture was rather to dismiss the subject than to express any doubts of her young guest's perfect ability, so far as disposition was concerned, to occupy and retain the vacant throne of Bodkins. Having smeared the insides of her tenebrious tumblers to an extent which might warrant a person not very particular in pronouncing them washed, she finally asked Livingston to drink-a demonstration that would not have followed had there appeared to her polite mind any doubt concerning the young man's permanence. Edward Livingston had rarely tasted spirituous liquors, but there was a gallantry about him then which had not yet been shocked into abeyance, and it appeared an imperative necessity to cordially accept the lady's cordial invitation. He did so, innocently selecting sherry for refreshment, and bravely shutting his eyes to the condition of the glass into which it was poured. 
               Mother Leonardi compounded herself some nameless dram, from various mixtures, and said, patronizingly, to her guest, while stirring the drink with one of the two preserved digits: 
               "If there's anything I do enjoy, its a mornin' nip; and I'm glad to see, sir, as you're not above takin' a sup for the good o' your gizzard. All persons which drinks knows really what pleasure is." 
               "In a horn," said Clotty. 
               "Just so," observed Livingston, amused at the occasional aptness of the young woman's terse quotations. He turned, as by politeness bound, to drink the maiden's health, but something inexpressibly longing ing in her small, shining eyes changed the youth's first intention into a courteous invitation for her to join them in their morning potation. A symptom of immediate acceptance was, however, met by her mother with: 
               "Not for her, sir; I never allows it. Afore she-folks is married I believes it's jest as well to be temperate. Whiskey spiles gals." 
               "I've no doubt," said Livingston, impressed with the fact. 
               "Certain, sure, no mistake," continued the Madam, to make her declaration more positive. "I hev seen young wimmin show that spunk to ther pas and mas, after drinkin', as would discourage any man from wantin' to jine 'em in a connoobial knot. And I can't stand sass. 
               "Nary time," said Clotty, taking revenge upon the imprisoned spirits upon which she sat, and of which she was forbidden to imbibe, by violently rocking the barrel until a perfect hurricane was represented by the dashing waves within. She thought, perhaps, that if whiskey spoiled girls, as her mother asserted, girls might be justified in an endeavor to spoil whiskey. Mother Leonardi had no reproof for this proceeding, however. She had her own reasons for knowing that agitation was good for the mixing of highwines and such seceret flavors and colorings as certain impostors employed in her honest trade. This knowledge was never imparted to her customers, however. So Miss Clotty waved herself to and fro, unchecked and unchided, with a tempestuous fury that might have brought sea sickness to a stomach more sensative, and certainly quite unconscious that her efforts were indirectly of service to any human being. Such a suspicion would speedily have calmed the rough spiritual storm thus petulntaly provoked. A splinter in the heel, from a hoop of the barrel, alone concluded her marine performance, as Livingston prepared to take his leave. 
               He announced himself quite rested and refreshed, as well as very grateful for Madam Leonardi's hospitality; and, promising to call soon and reciprocate the lady's liquid politeness, enquired the way to Pay-master Jerkman's office. 
               "Jest yonder," explained the Madam, pointing with her two solitary fingers through the open door to one of the jaundiced buildings beyond. "That smallest buildin' they calls the office. But I s'pose ye'll hardly find old Jerk around at this hour. He ain't one o' them fellers as kills 'emselves workin', and he does like a late snooze-doos old Jerk." 
               At this moment little Frank, riding the diminutive, spiritless beast our pilgrim had first seen on the plane with the rope, appeared before the low porch in front. 
               "What's the matter, young rooster?" enquired Clotty, digging industriously into her heel with a pin. 
               "Nothing serious," answered the youngster, who, upon a nearer view, did not appear so much of a youngster after all-only petite; "nothing serious, only I want a drink of water." 
               "Ma, give little Frank a drink," cried Clotty. 
               "And a stick of candy for Lazarus," added Frank tossing a penny through the open door. 
               With as much celerity as if the transaction had been far more extensive and profitable, the old lady dried her hands, and, after securing the copper, conveyed out to her customer a glass of dubious-looking liquid and a piece of red and white sugar, on which the flies had evidently long been engaged in engraving some original design of their own. The little man turned around on his horse, and, declining to touch the glass with his soiled hands, received it, by the edge, in his teeth, and holding it firmly there, tilted back his curly brown head, and quickly disposed of the contents. Then breaking the fly-specked candy into fragments, he leaned down and fed it all to the melancholy beast, kindly and deliberately; and, when the last morsel was swallowed, he bobbed his head in a comical adieu to both Madam and her daughter, and, with a significant wink at Livingston, rode off to the edge of the bluff. 
               "That's the temperancest boy what ye never see," said old Mother Leonardi, as her customer turned away. 
               "Healthy old boy," exclaimed Clotty. 
                
               "Very fond of his horse, he seems," observed Livingston, moving out on to the porch. 
               "Yes, poor dear," sighed the Madam; "its a pity he ain't long for this wicked world." 
               "Not long for the world," echoed Livingston, "why, what ails him? He is a tough little devil, apparently, and looks like anything else than dying." 
               "In a pig's eye," cried Clotty from within, where, having extracted the splinter from her heel, she was again endeavoring to make herself sea-sick by getting up another sea storm on the barrel. 
               "Wall, he ain't one o' them as shows their troubles much," explained Madam; "but there's matter enough with him, I tell ye. First, he got lame from a nail in his shoe, then come symptoms of the botts, with a swellin' o' the hind leg, and finally they fed him on musty hay until-," 
               "For heaven's sake, who are you talking about?" inquired the bewildered Livingston, interrupting frantically. "Do you mean to declare that that young man had hay prescribed for his maladies?" 
               "Not the young man, sir, but the horse," again explained Madam. "Poor Lazarus, he's the faithfulest critter and the--," 
               "O, bother the beast," cried Livingston again interrupting. "Really, I must bid you good morning, for I have lingered too long." 
               "I say, Mister," called Mother Leonardi, as her young guest bowed slightly and turned to depart; "hadn't ye better tell us yer name, so we'll know it when ye drop round again?" 
               "Livingston is the name," said our now impatient pilgrim. 
               "Livinstun," echoed the old woman, in her peculiar way; "all right. Now, Mr. Livinstun, if ye hear any one a sayin' as my darter is engaged, jest pronounce it false. There is such tales a goin' the rounds of this here village, and they is damagin' to a young gal's chances, and no mistake; and there ain't no more truth into 'em-no more nor a dorg." 
               "I'll bear it in mind," said Livingston, hastening away, and glad to be relieved of the Leonardis for a while. He was not ungrateful for the marked attentions bestowed on him by the Madam, but, since that morning's dram of various ingredients, the old woman's tongue had become oppressively confidential and familiar, and her amiable guest was growing restless under the unaccustomed annoyance. Had he known that he was not the only one who had thus been waylaid and loaded, to discomfort, with the amiable lady's politeness; and had he known the terrible, ulterior motive which underlaid her civilities toward young men generally, it is likely still less of gratitude and more of vexation would have mingled in his review of the interview just past. 
               Looking back he saw her standing, with arms akimbo, just where he had left her, the morning breeze alternately spreading and collapsing her miraculous cap-border, like the opening and shutting of a sun-umbrella. Seen in this reflective and speculative position, with something of hard, masculine determination manifesting itself in her homely old face, her appearance was not so suggestive of things "temporary" as it had been earlier. She had made up her mind very decidedly that Livingston was just the sort of a young man she desired to honor with the precious gift of her fair Clotty's hand. But the party for whom this distinction was destined, in happy ignorance of the blessing in store for him eventually, walked briskly onward, as previously directed, and entered the yellow smeared office at last. It was, by courtsey, the "Superintendent's Office;" but, as that high functionary seldom passed more than ten minutes at a time therein (the occasion being the halt for transfer of some passenger train on which he had been making a tour of the road) and held his court in the far-off city of Cargo, the actual occupation and duties of management fell upon his right bower, Jerkman. To this latter gentleman was directed the introductory epistle from the former, which Livingston now presented. He found Mr. Jerkman a fine-looking, plainly dressed person, with a fierce, bristling beard and mustache, through which protruded a pipe, and a merry twinkling eye and a quick nervous manner, and exceedingly unlike the lazy individual Madam Leonardi had pictured. After motioning Livingston to a seat, and glancing hastily over the Superintendent's letter, the kind-hearted Paymaster greeted his young recruit warmly, and with a manner so free from condescension and patronage, that the pilgrim's heart was won at once, and the man and boy were fast friends from that hour. There was a tall, dark-featured, powerful-looking man of forty-five or fifty, sitting tilted back in a chair against the wall, whom Jerkman presented to his protege as "Father Tom Cheels, the Master Mechanic." The old master was in his shirt sleeves, and seemed to be half-asleep as he rested his iron-grey head wearily on the side-plastering, with eyes nearly closed, and his left hand slowly smoothing down the knotted cords of a powerful, great left arm. But he roused himself out of his deep, dreamy thoughtfulness, and welcomed the young man most kindly. Then, as Father Tom turned to his rest and his reveries again, chafing his swollen limb listlessly, there came back to Livingston's mind, with strange vividness, that sadly suggestive word, "temporary," which so often before had been forced on his thoughts that morning. 
               "Imagine you have been with us always; try to feel at home, and make yourself comfortable." These were Jerkman's comforting words to the young stranger. "Our life in Picktonic is little more than a system of endurance and a process of waiting, at present; and until we remove our household goods to Lamoyelle, the future headquarters, you will not be burdened with work. There is something to learn, if you are disposed, even here," he continued; "but don't fret, and, above all things, keep cool. This is pretty much all that any of us have to do as yet." 
               Livingston found it so. His labors were light and easily learned. Keeping the "time" of repairers and shop men (the blacksmith's shop in a shed and the carpenter's shop in a car) entering up names on payrolls, counting money, and making out vouchers, were neither confining nor fatiguing occupations in such amounts as fell to the young secretary's hands; and, when this was varied by an excursion to the banks at Sabell or Poland, or a paying-off trip down the river, (where wood-cutters were at work,) in a steamer expressly devoted to this agreeable duty, the business of railroading seemed mingled with pleasure, inseparably. And gradually the haunting fear that his classical studies, at college, had wholly unfitted him for any but professional life, grew fainter and fainter in Livingston's breast; and those well-meaning mortals, his guardians, who had educated him for one career and then devoted him to another, through considerations of health and prosperity, won his respect as the experiment succeeded, and he thanked them, in his heart, for setting him afloat in waters so tranquil, and so easily navigated. 
               But he remembered the vaulting ambition of Bodkins, and forbore to learn too fast. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               FREE PASSES TO HEART FAVOR. 
               The deep charm of railroad life grew upon Livingston rapidly. That strange emotion of enjoyment which comes to every young toiler of earth when he feels for the first time that he is lending a hand, however feeble, and devoting his talents, however humble, to any great power in the machinery of existence, is intensified, even to fascination, in the case of the railway worker. He sees before him grand results of the labor in which he assists. He feels a peculiar satisfaction in witnessing the colossal commercial transactions that are accomplished by the efforts of himself and his companions. He experiences, as in no other business, that thrill of excitement which daring and danger impart to dull daily duty, and which in some degree acts on the minds of the train man, the office man, and the shop hand alike; for sympathy, concord and affection, are characteristics of these railroad employes. There is an esprit de corps in their ranks which can scarcely be equaled by that of an army, and is never approached by the trades or professions of peace. They learn to speak of the great living, throbbing, growing corporation as "our road;" they rejoice in its prosperity, they enjoy its triumphs, they are jealous of its interests, they are proud of its achievements. And this oneness of sympathy and interest inevitably draws into fellowship and more cordial friendship the hearts of every attache of the line. They become as brothers. Not wholly free, perhaps, from all those petty jealousies, and injustices, and alienations to which even the fondest families are liable. They were not mortal else. But at least it must be allowed them that they are more free from such disturbing elements than social circles generally, which bring into communion so many and such widely differing characters. 
                
               Something of all this Livingston learned. Much more he felt. No ghost of the decapitated Bodkins haunted his dreams, or troubled his hours of waking. Indeed, he found few traces of that unfortunate predecessor whose sudden exit from Pickatonic had been likened to the flight of a kite, in Madam Leonardi's figurative language. With the exception of a few undecypherable specimens of penmanship, all evidences of a previous reign had so completely disappeared from his department that the new occupant sometimes fancied poor Bodkins must have literally gone up, like the rial toy in question, and vanished amid the clouds. 
               Livingston's installation-so great an event in his hitherto quiet and studious career-was hardly accepted as a circumstance of momentous consequence by "the boys"-that is, the people of Pickatonic. His coming inaugurated a stricter "time" system than had formerly been enforced, and against this innovation there were symptoms of rebellion which extended to a little coolness towards the young servant of the company appointed to carry it out. But opposition was not prompted by any inclination towards dishonesty on the part of the workmen. They had been in the habit of reporting their working hours "in bulk," at the end of each month, and as extra time generally offset what little might be lost in the course of thirty days, full time had been the rule for all. The new system seemed, therefore, a reflection on their honor, and as such was resented; for there are no men so sensitive as railroad men. When it was found, however, that the change resulted in no manifest curtailment of their wages, and that its only object was to effect a plainer showing of the actual detail of labor performed, in various departments, for a given amount of expenditure, the boys were far too sensible and reasonable to longer oppose an unobjectionablereform, and quietly submitted, like intelligent men. When this system was finally an accomplished fact, perhaps those good-hearted fellows who had identified Livingston with the temporarily unpopular movement, and regarded him with coolness and suspicion in consequence, experienced a twinge of regret at their injustice. Certain it is, they speedily made ample amends for past unkindness. In the reaction the young secretary was elevated into a favorite. It was a position he had not sought, for he held but a modest opinion of his own abilities, and naturally shrank from thrusting himself into familiarity with men who were mostly older than himself, and certainly wiser in all things pertaining to the important duties which were common to both. But he was unfeignedly glad when a change took place in the demeanor of the boys towards him, and returned their friendly advances with a boyish fervor and enthusiasm that he never had occasion afterwards to regret. Being plain, unpretending folks themselves, it was only likely these honest, indispensable constituents of the road would look upon Livingston as a conceited, "stuck up," college chap, who had come to play Bodkins over them, assume unwarranted authority, and awe them into subservience by a display of his superior education. When their relenting, however, enabled the young man to discover himself to them, unreservedly, and they found him free from affectation, unlike the obnoxious Bodkins in everything, disinclined to an assumption of superiority in any degree, and quite willing to confess his ignorance of railroad affairs, and sit at their feet and be taught, it is no wonder a revolution was accomplished. Perhaps these noble fellows gave Livingston a warmer corner in their hearts, as compensation for the wrong of misjudging him, and as atonement for the brief season of estrangement which preceded his reception to favor. Whatever the reason, he was conscious of having been assigned a very choice place in the regards of those whole-souled children of the road, and in the pride and gratification of that consciousness, would have asked for no higher distinction, and wanted no worthier resting-place. 
               The little yellow office where Jerkman reigned, and where he and the new recruit represented the perpetually absent Superintendent with what ability they might, was headquarters for everybody. Lying about midway between the engine-house and machine shop-for, in this primitive arrangement of affairs, they were wide apart-it afforded a convenient "dropping-in" place forthe boys, in idle hours, and was the popular lounging-place of the village. All day long its diminitive windows kept up a perpetual rattle from the jarring of engines without, whose perpetual tramping and puffing and blowing grew to be music sublime in Livingston's ears. Switching was incessant on the labyrinth of tracks before the door, and Engineers, Firemen and Brakemen, inpassing, had ever a nod, or a friendly smile, for the inmates of the office. Rough-looking figures, old and young, some with fine faces, inviting a closer acquaintance, and all in soiled garments, moved up and down the pathway to and from the work shop, every hour or so, with fragments of machinery, or heavy bars of iron, upon their shoulders. And they found time to loiter, just a moment, by the open office windows, and exchange a word of greeting, or inquire the time of day. It was a family affair. Isolated in such a great degree from the rest of the world, dependent solely upon one another for society, and bound together, as has been said, by the tie of a common interest, distinctions of position and title disappeared. Not that discipline was wanting. Jerkman and his lieutenant, holding the purse-strings of the company's plethoric treasury, were supreme in business affairs, where need for authority arose, and were looked up to by all as the representatives of higher, invisible powers; and Father Tom, as head of the machinery department, was in every sense "boss" as well as friend, adviser and fellow worker to all his hands, in working hours. But social distinctions there were none. And, whatever the needs of other communities in this respect, and whatever the theories of philosophers, at Pickatonic there was need for none. The familiarity which resulted was never abused. 
               At evening, in the gratifying hush which followed a noisy day, and when the restless steeds of steam were stabled for the night under a Watchman's vigilant eye, a group of Engineers, with now and then a Fireman, a freight Conductor or two, and a socially inclined Machinist, would collect on the platform and steps of the office, to discuss the events of the day, the comparative merits of their favorite engines and to smoke and rest, and listen. Conversation on these occasions seldom quitted the one theme, railroading; but it never degenerated into the stupid or common-place. Everything was of the heroic. And railroading was a topic that seemed quite exhaustless, and, when handled intelligently, as was generally the case, it had a rare interest which never grew wearisome. Each day of this busy, exciting existence is so fruitful in events, and the riders of the engines are so fond of the grand iron monsters committed to their care, and so proud of their achievements in the way of speed, or power, or good behavior under adverse circumstances, that one scarcely wonders at any degree of concentration of thought and expression thereon. 
               Little Frank Weston was generally a conspicuous figure in this evening assembly. He was a funny little man, who might have just been born for all of having any particular size or shape to speak of. He was quite twenty-three, and looked it, in the face; but, with boyish manners, which covered a world of undeveloped, or, rather, unexhibited shrewdness, he passed for a very young man. A better listener than talker, he yet said a clever thing now and then, and amusingly introduced the eccentric accomplishments of Lazarus to offset the wonderful doings of that melancholy quadruped's mightier rivals, the boasted iron horses. He could do most amazing and comical tricks in legerdemain and gymnastics, and, frequently, thus lent a hand for the general amusement. 
               Livingston was more than a little pleased at the abscence of Hook from these "twilight soirees," as he called them, on the office steps. He was hardly vindictive, but he remembered Jim Hook with a singular dislike which seemed not to be easily dispelled; and it would have broken the harmony of these tranquil evenings, in the secretary's eyes, if that tenor-voiced "raider of the bottom" had come to take part in those amicable discussions, now so enjoyable and full of valuable information. Hook's duties confined him to the bottom, and he lodged at Salell. Listening to a history of the day's transactions, in which each story-teller was the hero of his own report, it was a source of much regret to Livingston hat he had not greater influence in high official quarters. He certainly would have employed it to secure promotion, or at least some public recognition or expression of thanks, for those constituents of the company who had performed such wonderful feats. Jerkman's assistant swallowed these romances entire. He had not yet learned to make allowances for the pardonable embellishment and unavoidable exaggerations of the narratives. But, even if he had, he would have been no less anxious to do something to insure a just appreciation and suitable reward for his excellent friends of the fiery steeds. 
               Among Engineers, there was young Silas Parrington, who was "Si" to the boys, and as handsome a fellow as ever graced the foot-board of a locomotive. His good looks were more than a little enhanced by a stylishness of costume and a strict regard to personal neatness which can hardly be said to prevail among a majority of these hardy toilers in the midst of steam and smut. 
               In the case of Si Parrington, it was regarded as a sort of affectation, and sometimes gave rise to a laugh or a sneer at his expense; but the boy took it kindly, and was ever so amiable in character and so gentlemanly in deportment that he was none the less loved by his comanpions for indulging what they considered "a weakness" for dress. On duty he wore a complete over-suit of coarse material, but the end of his run found this quickly shelled off, and he stepped from his engine as clean and untumbled as if leaving a drawing-room. After bathing his face in cool water, to wash from his bright eyes the cinders and dust of the road, he generally strolled into Livingston's department to put right the brown curling hair, by the aid of the company's one gorgeous mirror, (twelve inches by ten) and then always asked for the use of a desk, and some ink, pen and paper. The epistles he prepared on these occasions were not voluminous, but the occasions were suggestively frequent. Four letters each week was the rule, and this was regarded as reasonable by those who knew that he passed three evenings out of seven with his fair correspondent at Bloom. 
               Livingston, however, respected Si's secret, which was scarcely a secret any longer, and handled the engineer's heart affairs tenderly. This made them particularly good friends; and perhaps Si was Livingston's favorite of the Pickatonic boys, though, where all were so friendly, it was hard to acknowledge distinctions. 
               Ben Putnam was another Engineer who stood at the head of his profession, and had the good will of the road from highest to lowest. They called him "Old Put," though he was not very aged, and Jerkman proclaimed him "the salt of the earth." He was a skilled and experienced machinist, as well as an able Engineer-for it sometimes happens that the runner of a locomotive is limited in his knowledge of machinery to the specimen he handles on the rails. Put was a dark-featured, plain-visaged man, who kept his own counsel, was not given to gossip, was careless in dress, awkward in manner, silent to reticence, and not to be roused into life, animation or enthusiam except in his neat, comfortable engine-cab, flying over the country with the speed of a bird. Here his tongue found words, his manner gained dignity, his eye beamed with excitement, and his homely face lighted up into a smile that was as glorifying to his irregular features as is the golden glow of sunset to a craggy mountain peak. He felt really at home only on the road, and he fairly loved the life of danger, excitement and fatigue which there could be enjoyed. Silent, listless, melancholy and unprepossessing, it was a wonder to many in what lay the charm by which Put secured and retained the regard and respect of his fellows to such a remarkable degree. Livingston thought of 
                      
                        "The pearl of a pure soul 
                        In manhood's rough shell," 
                     
                   of which he had read in some poem; and the magnetic power of an unsullied spirit is one beyond question. But there was something mysterious, after all, in this rough man's strong hold on the hearts of all persons who approached him. He was Father Tom's "pet" and main stay, and might have been placed at the head of important mechanical departments elsewhere, for the asking, where, with work less laborious and pay much advanced, he could have brought into play the remarkable faculties of a well-balanced head. But he was attached to Father Tom, liked the Lamoyelle Railway, was clever enough to foresee its great future, had grown fond of his surroundings, liked "running" far better than shop work, and so held to his place with devotion and content. 
               Joe Glow was the noisiest Engineer of the party. He was so given to slang that Livingston fancied he must have been the instructor of Miss Clotty Leonardi; and, among a variety of accomplishments, claimed that of a Shakspearean readr. There was something of justice in the claim, be it known, for the fellow had a sympathetic, flexible voice, which proved itself capable of power, expression and dramatic effect. And, as Joe was obliging and never grew weary, his choice recitations enlivened a great many hours that else had hung heavy on the hands of the dwellers of old Pickatonic. Jerkman named this strange compound of cleverness and uncouthness, "gentle Romeo." The "Juliet" of the romantic swain was a certain Miss Dorathy Dare, who lived down the line in a place called Duck Creek, and was guarded by a she-dragon aunt, named Felicity Flint, instead of a nurse, and carefully watched by a crew of old and young Capulets, her cousins, opposed to her union with Glow. Joe could sing quite acceptably, and on the nights which were passed in Pickatonic, he led a numerous chorus in soul-stirring songs. 
               Duke Angel, who had once been a sailor, and who still retained a certain "style of the sea" which had won him the ungraceful nickname of "Flop," had also a pleasant, untutored, low, musical voice, and his quaint marine ballads were charming to hear. 
               Old Jack Howland, a venerable master of the iron horse, could dance most extraordinary jigs. He was frightfully profane, and chief of the boasters, so that his tongue got the better of his limbs, now and then; but, though far past the prime of a most active life, when Flop brought his sweet violin from its case in the tender-box, and excited the old fellow's limbs into motion by a few lively strains, his tongue became silenced in an instant. Such dancing was perhaps never done by another. The broad office platform became too limited for his miraculous steps and he took to the labyrinth of tracks beyond it, his long withered limbs flying about with such agility that they must have fancied themselves young again-if ancient legs may be supposed to indulge in such an innocent delusion. And old Jack was married to a quiet, good, motherly woman, who loved him devotedly, in spite of his roughness. 
               And there were others, not only of Engineers, but among freight Conductors, Firemen and Shop men, who gladly contributed something in the way of story, song, jest or gymnastics, to the enjoyment of the crowd; and Pickatonic was never allowed to grow dull. Jerkman usualy presided at these nightly reunions, bringing out his huge office chair o sit and suck at his ponderous meerschaum, in the midst of the group, and drop in a well-chosen word here and there between puffs of strong smoke. 
               A lot of industrious Brakemen, whom Jerkman pronounced "the exclusives," held often, a caucus of their own on the station-house platform, nearer the bluff, and hence, nearer Madam Leonardi's, and conspicuous among them were Chet. Langham and Dan Daley. Here they varied their discussions of affairs of the line, by an occasional mysterious disappearance into the flourishing gin-shop opposite, and by hopeless attempts to polish up an endless array of dim and degenerated lanterns, which bruises and rust and much rubbing had reduced almost to a vanishing point. There was a desperate rivalry between these illuminating members of the railway family as to who should present the best show of clean glass and bright metal; and the strife was commendable, to a degree, but, carried to excess, the zeal of the polishers threatened total destruction to the company's, not very durable, lamps. However, they rubbed and scrubbed, and drank and talked, as busy as bees, as noisy as magpies, and as happy, in an earnest performance of their humble duties, as if the crown-jewels of an empire were passing through their fingers, to be ready for the morrow's coronation. 
               Others of the tribe of Pickatonic were variously disposed about the few haunts of the little town: some playing cards on the head of a barrel in Madam Leonardi's state banqueting room, where Clotty played Ganemede gracefully; some smoking and dreaming, in solitude, by the edge of the bluff; some reading, in-doors, by dim, flaring candles; some resting and sleeping, in passenger coaches, till the incoming night-train should wake them to duty, and some lounging idly about Brother Shirtrip, the clergyman-cobbler, who sat in his doorway on bright summer evenings and talked to the boys of their "immortal, eternal, everlasting souls," while fitting such dubious bottoms to their dilapidated boots as experience had proved to be poor material illustrations of the old man's spiritual theories. He regarded everybody as "standing on the crumbling brink," etc., but did not appear to regard cheating in sole leather as an offence which might be punishable hereafter. 
               But, after all, it was the cream of the crowd that clustered around Jerkman's chair, on the platform, where he, Father Tom and the light-hearted secretary, nightly held court. 
               Of Passenger Conductors but little was seen in Pickatonic. It was part of their truly unenviable duty to go down that terrible plane at the end of each trip, see travelers over the shaky pile bridge, and across the meandering track of the bottom, to any connection by railway, or river, or canal, which might be desired at Saleli. Only there terminated the tiresome day's journey, and there, generally, they lodged; for there again the broken thread of business was taken up in the morning, and the work of a new run commenced. The "Hobson's choice" Hardy House was railway headquarters. There was, notwithstanding, one perpetual violator of the general rule of lodging at Salell. Night after night, when his train had been safely conducted to its extremest terminus, young Charley Lamble came back over the desolate bottom, and joyfully climbed the incline to pass the night, tranquilly, in Pickatonic, rather than remain at old Hardy's. When the uncertain Jim Hook was disposed, he gave the Conductor a ride on his engine as far as the foot of the plane; but, even if the way must be traversed on foot, after nightfall, he walked it, undaunted, and brought his fine face, with its sweet, winning smile, to add one more charm to the group on the steps. He slept in a snug little room in that sadly-smeared dwelling, which had suggested to Livingston an old yellow cat, but which Jerkman called, strangely, "the convent;" and, in the morning, at unearthly hours, a watchman broke in on his slumbers, and away over the dew-sprinkled bottom he traveled again, to be ready for train-time at Salell. Then a glimpse, a smile, or a parting wave of the hand, as he stood at the rear of his out-going train, in passing the office, was all that was seen of young Lamble until, returning the next afternoon, he repeated his greetings en route to Salell, and came back to rest in Pickatonic. There was something quite strange in this rare isolation he seemed to prefer. Indeed, over all of his sayings and doings, there hung just that shadow of half eccentricity, mingled with mystery, which gilded with romance his erratic career. It added an interest to the natural sympathy and friendliness awakened at first by his youth and his fresh, manly face. Long before Livingston and Lamble became the firm friends they were destined to be, through many vicissitudes of life, on the railway and elsewhere, the former had found himself powerfully drawn towards that dreamy-eyed fellow, whose merriest laugh had an echo of something not heartily joyous, and whose brightest look were just the shade of a sorrow, a remorse, or a regret. No lover could have been more regular in visits to a lady-love's bower than was Charley in paying devotion to the old hill-top village, which seemed so homely, and was yet so homelike. It might have been thought, and with reason, that young Charley Lamble was a lover himself, but for the fact that Clotty Leonardi was the only young, unmarried female, who dwelt on the bluff, and that Madam's saloon (store and tavern) was the one place he wholly despised, and the one he could never, by any means, be prevailed on to enter. All Madam's soft blandishments, all the daughter's grimaces (with her up-turned, devotional nose assuming its most winning air), all urgent entreaties of friends and acquaintances had proved but in vain to allure this one obstinate fly into the spider's fine web. 
               Livingston lodged in a little room over the office. He could not with propriety declare it his own, since it had other occupants, daily and nightly; the claimants of two other beds than his own. Wonderfully useful beds they seemed, too, and never in danger of moulding or mildewing dewing for want of use, nor of getting damaged under the hands of impatient chambermaids. Somebody was perpetually getting into or out of these two overtasked, much-inhabited couches. Even the secretary's less popular resting-place could not be held sacred to his own uses only. Late every night, when the twilight soiree had ended, and something like quiet enveloped the town, young Livingston crawled up to this chamber of multitudinous dreams, and prepared himself for slumber with a sort of Bohemian satisfaction unknown where refinement prevails. And sleep came quickly to the tired eyelids which elsewhere, and in idle times, had often been so slow to close and bestow the needful rest. But, later yet, each night, his sleep was broken by the long shrill whistle of an approaching locomotive, and then came nearer and nearer the hum of the fast-running train, until, amid the scrapings of brakes, the striking of bumpers and a clank of machinery, the engine and cars thundered wildly along past the windows, jarring the buildings, and startling the sleepers. Then sudden silence ensued. Then Livingston, listening, could hear the sick coughing of the asthmatic engine at the head of the bluff, and he knew that some hundreds of passengers were slowly going down in the darkness on that terrible plane. Then, after an interval, some person came quietly into the bed-room, and, after undressing in the dark, (conductors of night-trains are very like owls) prostrated himself at the secretary's side, and shared his humble lodging without ceremony. Before daylight he was gone again, so Livingston never saw his companion of the night, and seldom heard his voice. The only trace left of these nocturnal visits was a constantly diminishing bottle of bitters, marked "Extract of Bark," which stood on a shelf in the corner. Thus the mysterious stranger came to be known, to his bed-mate, simply as "Extract;" and "Extract" he was to the end of the chapter. But for a time it was all so peculiar and odd and unconventional, that the fascinated secretary ceased to look back with regret on the luxuries of earlier days, and gave himself up, unresisting to a hearty enjoyment of the rough, but novel and exciting life that lay before him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               RAILROAD RELIGION AND RECREATION,-POTS OF PORCELAIN AND PEWTER. 
               Sundays were always bright days on the bluff. Of course labor could not be wholly suspended-it never is quite, on American railways-and the faint, fitful sound of a hammer or saw, in the primitive shops, far and near, made discordant notes in the loudly sung hymns of old Shirtrip's small flock. This worthy St. Paul and St. Crispin, combined, held church, by permission, in a passenger coach on the switch, and wisely forbearing to thrust his own doctrines and creeds down the possibly disinclined throats of his hearers, and confining his few irrepressible, extemporaneous gushings to the gospel and it plain, simple teachings-in which it were well if more of his cloth, high and low, should be taught-the veteran cobbler received, once a week, the marked compliment of an audience select and attentive, if never very large. His principal weakness was a fondness for the rhetorical figure of "the crumbling brink of destruction, etc." Here the voices of Flop and Joe Glow were, one day in seven, devoted to holier purposes than claimed them at Livingston's twilight soirees; and even Jerkman and the secretary, with Father Tom, Lamble, and swearing Jack Howland, joined their not always harmonious efforts to swell the glad anthems of praise. It was almost the only remaining outward observance of civilization and christianity that the half-savage village of Pickatonic could claim. And simple and rough, to a striking degree, were these brief Sunday services in the old dusty car. But who knows if they may not have dropped some good seed in fair ground, or have possibly prevented a total relapse into barbarism, by keeping alive, in these rude, honest hearts, some memories sacred and pure. At least "going to church" afforded the boys an excuse to dress up; and how noble, and, by contrast, how handsome they all looked, in Livingston's eyes, when emerged from the greasy shop clothes, and the smut, dust and smoke of the week's tire-some toil. Handsome Si, on the alternate Sundays he passed on the bluff, was radiant in gorgeous apparel, and outshone himself-which was more than another could do, and even old Put made some changes of toilette, out of respect to the day, which, however, served but to show there is a plainness, no less than a beauty, which is not improved by adornment. 
               The profane, terpsichorean Howland, who with difficulty restrained his ambitious old legs, during singing at church, put grease on the gray hair that crowned him like a ruffled night-cap, and tied his large neck-cloth into a tremendous bow, to exhibit some recognition of the sacred event; while the generally irrepressible Clotty Leonardi paid her doubtful tribute to the holy occasion by strictly abstaining from any indulgence in slang, by forcibly restraining an inclination to "jaw back" to the parson, and by decorously concealing her stockingless toes in capacious coarse shoes of Shirtrip's secular construction. The amiable, but demure and injured-innocent appearing ladies from the "old cat," or "convent," appeared in the car, once a week, with commendable regularity, arrayed in most fashionable attire from the best shops of Salell. They were followed or accompanied by a sedate and always comfortable looking Englishman, Mr. Beliful, whom Jerkman, for reasons of his own, had named "worthy Prior," and who walked in a meditative, self-absorbed manner to his seat, with a voluminous prayer book, (which never came in use,) held in clasped hands just over a well rounded paunch. If there was something suggestive of strict piety and self-denial in the prior's reflective demeanor, and his way of ignoring all earthly affairs on the Sabbath, there was more in the portliness of his form, the redness of his nose and the suspicious discoloration of his eyes, to assist the accepted idea. But there was infinitely less in the appearance of the ladies he escorted to win them the honorable title of nuns; they were more like butterflies. Still Jerkman had lived in the house with them, and knew their peculiarities as no other could, and it was he who had given them a name of which the empress Eugenie once declared herself proud. If the saintly disinclination of these weaker vessels to come in contact with the common pewter pots and kettles of Pickatonic; their exclusiveness, pride, hatred of the poor old village, so unworthy in their estimation of respect or recognition; their oppressive condescension in consenting to live in such a place; their almost perpetual seclusion within doors, and averted faces when forced to go out-if any, or all, of these feminine affectations deserved the punishment of sarcasm, perhaps the word "nun" was well used. In all save a wish, which in them was pride-prompted, to keep out of ordinary society, they were very unlike the brave women whose pure lives on earth are devoted to good, and who only live out of the world that they may the better serve God and be of use in emergencies, to God's children. 
               However, these fashionable inhabitants of the Convent were the bon ton of Pickatonic, and great courts of Europe are, at times, less exclusive as Livingston learned, when he traveled, years afterwards. First was Mr. Beliful's wife, the recognized lady Abbess of the Convent. Beliful being the aristocratic "boarding boss" of the community, who provided the invariable salt pork and ham, to which Jerkman and the Secretary were condescendingly allowed to sit down at the convent table, (after the nuns had retired,) was, of course, entitled to high social distinction for this reason only. But he was Station Agent also; and this climax of official dignity authorized his decidedly better half to assume unquestioned control of society and social affairs on the bluff. It could not have been an arduous duty, for "society," as understood by the lady Abbess, was confined to inhabitants of the limited areas of that jaundice-hued dwelling which looked like an old yellow cat. Mrs. Link was the favorite sister of the convent. She was a widow whose deceased lord had made something handsome (out of the Company, not his wife,) by contracting, and had left, on his death-bed, a final bequest and a farewell request. The former was an unsettled, disputed and dubious bill against the railroad, and the second was an earnest supplication that she "never should look at another man." 
               "Miss Lynx," as Mother Leonardi, with unconscious appropriateness, called her, was as lean as an Indiana pig, as dark as an eclipse, as prim and neat as an old maid, and as straight and stiff as if she had swallowed a ramrod. She was quite forty-five, and far from prepossessing, but found it a difficult task to follow with strictness the promise exacted by the lately lost Link. To aid her, however, in this commendable endeavor against the army of truly attractive and dangerous men on the bluff, the lady went armed with a ponderous parasol, summer and winter. She called it her "man-protector," and it served to shut out from her gaze the faces of those "horrible males," on whom her unruly eyes might have lingered with dangerous fondness, and to beat off any member of the forbidden sex who might approach her too nearly. No case was on record, however, of the man-protector having come into use for this last cruel purpose. Probably no one outside of the smeared convent walls expected the instrument to be thus demolished. And it never was. Nevertheless, Mrs. Link, fighting against her inclinations as well as battling with imaginary dangers, was watchful and wary, keeping one eye on her perpetual vision of anticipated masculine assaults, and the other on the unsettled account of the defunct contractor-which was a disposition of the optics threatening the speedy production of a cross-eyed nun. 
               The other two sisters, Mrs. Sarah Pees and Mrs. Cleopatra Skew, were only ordinary mortals in other eyes than their own. They were the frivolous wives of two honest and hard-working mud-train conductors, who, employed on "construction" in distant and even more barbarous localities than poor Pickatonic, had been forced to leave their loved partners in the safe, willing hands of the strict lady Abbess. They only beheld the idols of their souls at long intervals, for construction work was far, far away, and ever receding, and, moreover, was of a kind which knew no delay for the Sabbath; and a ticket of leave for absence, was not easily procured at that time of great hurry. The females sometimes varied their convent life, however, by riding up and down the road with young Charley Lamble, catching just occasional glimpses of their husbands in the mud pits, as the passenger train thundered past, and saluting them with finger-tip kisses and handkerchief wavings. It couldn't have been a very pleasant or satisfactory sort of conjugal existence, especially for the exiled and aggravated husbands. But the ladies, relieved of the grim lady Abbess' most irksome restraints and surveillance, consoled themselves somewhat by flirting with the handsome Conductor, under whose escort they traveled. They were fair, plump, amiable Yankee girls, with nothing matronly about them. Having more vanity than brains, a longing for conspicuity in costume and social position usurped the place of woman's nobler ambitions in their shallow souls; and they were unpleasantly addicted to boasting of "the circles in which they had moved at the east." This latter indulgence had led them so often beyond the verge of truth, that grave doubts came to be entertained concerning any assertion which came from their lips, and, so strong was the tendency to question their most indifferent representations, that Jerkman declared his strong inclination to deny the existence of any "circles" at the east, and said he even wholly disbelieved in the lying pair having ever "moved" in anything but an approximately straight line, whether in society or out of it. This statement of Jerkman, though not very complimentary to the veracity of the ladies, was truthful in respect to the "straight line" department of Mrs. Pees and Mrs. Skew, who were much to be praised, whatever their faults, that so much could be testified truly in their behalf. Well-meaning, honest girls they were, whose innocent familiarities with Charley Lamble were the result of ignorance, love of admiration and a too strict regime at the convent, which led to a natural indulgence in reactionary extremes at every taste of freedom. No one, however, save the man-protected Mrs. Link, saw evil in the follies of these women. That antiquated relic of the happily released contractor found much, it is said, in the behavior of her young, irrepressible sisters, to severely condemn; and it appears that with all her various employments for a pair of very industrious eyes, she always found time to pry into, search out, and spitefully proclaim the weakness of these two wayward dames. But for her they would never have gone to the lengths which eventually gave real cause for scandal. But for her they had dreamed not of evil. And as for Charley, had the two been as Potiphar's wife, he was stronger than two or three Josephs, when bringing his powers of resistance to bear against feminine blandishments. He was colder than ice to their persistent advances, for even ice melts at the warmth of a touch. He was simply indifferent to all their attempts at love-making, and, beyond such strict kindness as commonest courtesy demanded towards ladies confided to his care, they won very little on Lamble's attentions-won never a bit on his heart. But the women were not a Potiphar duette. They were rather dames Quickly and Ford, with less brains and less malice than they, and seeking a young, handsome victim, who would not be victimized, in place of the fleshy knight, willing and weak. Whether the love-dream of young Lamble's life-that dream which, sooner or later, is given to all sons of earth-had been and was ended, or whether he nursed, absorbingly, some high ideal that was yet to be, none could tell. Nor was it known if some bitter experience, or warning intrigue, of the past had made him distrustful and shy in his dealings with women. There was, at all events, something which kept him from all, but such needful association with women as his peculiar position demanded. When the convent procession, in its invariable order, arrived at brother Shirtrip's migratory temple of worship, with the lady Abbess leading, at sister Link's side, the two merry wives close behind, and Beliful following in the rear, with that never-used prayer book clapsed to his stomach, there was always a sensation in the car. No greetings passed, no smiles of recognition were exchanged. The nuns rustled ostentatiously to their reserved positions, and deigned not so much as a glance towards their humbler fellow-worshippers. Even Lamble, who slept beneath the same sacred roof, and Jerkman and the Secretary, who ate at the same scanty board as their own saintly selves, were entirely ignored by the solemn-faced, gaily-dressed sisters. Now for all these godly and ungodly persons, to assemble, once a week, and listen to one of old Shirtrip's discourses, brief as they were, and unobjectionable as he labored to make them, was praise-worthy in the extreme. For the venerable dominie was neither eloquent nor prepossessing. It was a religious devotion, however, which once nearly met a most tragic reward. One fine afternoon when the car was well filled with a devout and absorbed congregation, a newly hired watchman, who had been kindling a fire and getting up steam on the engine, designed for that evening's train, brought her out on the tracks of the yard for a good pumping up, and, disregarding the state of the switches, gave the church car so violent a shove, that, had it not jumped the rails at the edge of the bluff, the parson and his flock must have gone down together to a fate which is fearful to comtemplate. It was a timely illustration of the "crumbling brink" theory, and a most providential escape from a terrible catastrophe; yet Livingston was wicked enough to wish, often afterwards, that another chance push might send the full car-load of piety swift down the plan, on a telegraphic trip to Salell-provided, of course, that the roadway was all clear below and the car would remain on the track-just as a test of their much-boasted faith, and to see how the various parties would act under fears of destruction. He was willing to take all the chances of the dreadful descent, and go down in the crowd, "just to see the rare sport." And Jerkman would gladly have shared in the danger for the same doubtful end. 
               It has been said that the Reverend Shirtrip was not prepossessing. He was very far from it. The sanctimonious features which rose like a rich bit of heathen sculpture above the poor cobbler's illy-clad shoulders, formed what Jerkman called, with some reason, "a vegetable face." In the first place his complexion was greenish, and the poorly-shaved skin very fuzzy and prickly, like the skin of a wild-growing gooseberry. The eyes were like partly peeled onions; the nose like an eccentric potato, so abundantly strewn with large warts that one hardly could tell how much was real nose and how much excrescence; and one of its many protuberances seemed expressly designed for spectacle support. The thin yellow lips, parted slightly in repose, and revealing within still yellower rows of tobacco-stained teeth, suggested a half-open ear of ripe, prairie-grown corn; and the chin was as like to a much deformed squash, as anything else in the world. He was a widower, and had been accused of cherishing a secret passion for Madam Leonardi, in spite of her sinful calling. But for the old fellow's simplicity, sincerity and deep earnestness, his extraordinary personal appearance, and absurdity of manner, would have rendered these Sunday performances ludicrous in the extreme-more especially as there was no compensating brilliancy of fancy accompanying, and no profundity of wisdom to lure one into forgetfulness thereof. Perhaps it was "the fun of the thing," quite as much any convictions of duty, nevertheless, which took to these gatherings Jerkman and the Secretary. They were, moreover, acceptable breaks in the monotony of every-day life, and generally furnished the two with material for wit, at poor Shirtrip's expense, during all the remainder of the week. The puns and irreverent jokes which were suggested by the strange combination of preacher and shoemaker, in one and the same homely mortal, were absolutely endless under the manipulations of such a wag as was Jerkman, and the other was following fast in that gentleman's unsteady footsteps. The field was a tempting one for the sacrilegious hands of our two railroad jesters. It may possibly still suggest a harmless good thing or two, to people more dignified and possessed of more reverence for sacred things. They are welcome to the trial. 
               But Sunday was by no means altogether given up to the dusty church-car and its semi-religious ceremonies. The idle hands made the day one of rejoicing and rest. They swarmed round the smeared little office, as a convenient head-quarters, and both in and outside of it, dreamily smoked away care, building castles in the air with the quiet enjoyment of children. And Father Tom called them his children. He cared for them as if they had been indeed his sons. The relation between this master mechanic and his men was closer than often exists, in the rough, working world, between master and man. Though past the necessity, and well-nigh past the power, of performing laborious tasks with his own willing hands, still Father Tom often went into the shops, with shirt-sleeves rolled up, and joined for a time in any hard work that seemed pressing. He made the boys feel that he was one of them-a friend, a father, a helper. He looked after the morals of his employes in an unoffending way, which not only commanded respect, but inclined them to follow his counsels willingly and he guided by his advice. His methods were practical and sensible, if novel. Disinclined for any indulgence in strong drink himself, he rather discouraged its use by his men, though never severe in rebuking the few who transgressed. And when convinced that to some of the workmen long habit had made spirituous drink a necessity, he won them from secret and excessive imbibings of the poisons of Madam Leonardi, and others, by substituting pure and light wines. These he kept stored, by the cask, in a private clothes-closet just out of his room, which was located back of the one used by Livingston, and only divided therefrom by a hall. And any amount could be had for the asking. And many a flask of this rare, costly drink was passed round at the "twilight soirees," and many another enlivened the long summer Sundays, so full of bright dreams and high hopes, of tranquility, peace and repose. Father Tom's favorite seat was just at the end of the broad office platform, where the trunk of a great spreading elm could be used for his chair to tilt back against, and where its densest shade fell all day long. He was fond of a light kind of yellow-bound literature, which the train-boy distributed, called "novels" by courtesy, though Jerkman, with greater appropriateness, called them "bloody avenging swords," from the invariable appearance of that sanguinary weapon, in the finale of each, to dispose of the villains and rescue the innocent. Sometimes the old man attentively bent over one of these gory narrations of impossible adventure, with a look of amusement not born of credulity; but oftener he sat, as if sleeping, his eye-lids half-closed, his left arm exposed to the elbow, and his right hand caressing its bare knotted cords, just as Livingston saw him employed on the day of his first introduction. This mysterious ailing was growing upon Father Tom, rapidly, After any unusual exertion, the lump in his arm became greatly enlarged, and fever and pain kept useless for days. A nervous anxiety tortured him, too, as he found his strength failing, and fears for a future of helplessness and dependence haunted his brain, day and night. It was known that this strange, cureless malady had come upon Father Tom, long years before; but its origin few had conjectured. Not that it was a secret. It is altogether likely that Put knew its history, for he and the old man were very near friends, and had long lodged together in the back office chamber. But, whatever the confidences between them. Put's perfect reticence would have sealed up securely even commonest communications; and Tom was not given to talk of himself in the jovial assemblies on the steps. In answer to questions, he was accustomed to say that the trouble originated in an accident of his youth; but beyond this he volunteered nothing. It was not until Livingston, pressing the old man in kindness and sympathy, drew from him finally the record of a terrible adventure of earlier times, that the boys knew the cause of their master's persistent and curious weakness. He told the tale thrillingly, sitting as usual against the old tree, with his eyes partly closed. It was a still Sunday night, and the world round about was remarkably hushed; and the boys whom he loved were grouped close to his feet, in attitudes various and graceful. The leaves of the elm, spreading widely above, partook of the quiet prevailing, and seemed to be listening as the old man spoke. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               FATHER TOM'S FAST TIME.-RUNNING WILD. 
               Amid breathless attention on the part of his children, the venerable Master Mechanic related his story of "the desperate wild run" of his boyhood. 
               "My father was an extremely clever and capable artisan," he said, "who possessed, besides ability, considerable prudence and no small amount of ambition. He was an Englishman, and with such qualities it was only natural that he should rise in life. And he did so. Before I was sixteen years of age he held a lucrative and responsible position in the locomotive department on one of the great north country lines, and, had he lived, I think he might have made himself a name in the world. I was his only son, and he gave me a good education, deeply tinged with a mechanical coloring, in the hope that I should improve on his success. In this hope, if he were alive, he would not perhaps be altogether disappointed; but, although I have no reason to complain of want of present prosperity and social position, it is none the less true that the spare hours and holidays of my school life were spent chiefly among workshops, mechanics and Engineers. In those young days I had a passion for the locomotive, and my boyish ambition was, to become a master of all the mysteries and duties connected therewith. Thus I was forever loafing about the engine-house, and getting an occasional trip with good-natured Engineers, more ready to please an inquiring youngster than careful to obey the Company's regulations. In this way I early gained a tolerably complete insight into the management of the locomotive, and being a shrewd, self-confident lad soon acquired a profound belief in my capacity for discharging all the duties of an Engineer. I had, besides, an inseparable companion named Mark Hibberd, whose father followed the calling I thought I should so much adorn, and who delighted equally with me in pottering about among the engines and men, or riding short distances whenever opportunity occurred. The elder Hibberd was an extremely daring and clever Engineer, a first-rate workman; but, unfortunately, like too many of our very best artisans, given to occasional fits of drunkenness. This peculiarity had got him into trouble once or twice before the time of which I am speaking, but as on each occasion his escapes had been productive of no actual harm, and he was in other respects a very valuable man, he was retained but cautioned. Mark was quite as great a proficient as myself in knowledge of the craft, and the dearest wish of both was to have our abilities properly recognized among the workmen who were our companions. In all our little enterprises and adventures Mark, however, was the leader; he inherited his father's skill and courage, and soon acquired, even among the men, a good reputition for steady pluck and shrewdness. Such were young Hibberd and myself at about the age of fifteen; but in order that you may clearly understand the whole of my story, it will be necessary for me now to explain the situation and peculiarities of our station and the neighboring line. Coulston is a large town on the -- Railway, standing midway between Allonby, which is ten miles below, and Casleton, which is ten miles above it. 
               "Attached to the station are the locomotive works already mentioned, and a very large engine-house. In the latter, the number of engines was generally considerable, and this was our favorite haunt, where we lurked, at all hours, hoping for the chance of a run with some complaisant comrade down to Allonby, whence we trusted to the chapter of accidents and 'Shank's mare,' for a return journey. The engine-house stood at a distance of about 200 yards below Coulston station, with which it was connected by a siding, joining the main line in a manner with which you are all familiar. 
               "Allonby was a small place where few trains stopped, while our town was large and of rising importance." The nearest down station of any size was Linchester, about forty miles distant. It happened, one dark but clear November evening, that Mark Hibberd and I were lounging about our favorite engine-house, chatting to one another of our drivers, who were busy in cleaning their respective locomotives. Old Hibberd's 'Firefly' was there with steam up, an order having come during the afternoon that Mark's father was to be in readiness to take a 'special' down to Linchester at eight o'clock precisely. Hibberd himself was not there, though it was then half-past seven, and Mark said, casually, in answer to a question from Old Bob Jacobs, his fireman, that he hoped his father was not 'on the lush;' but he had been down to the Railway Arms again that afternoon for the first time during the last three months. 
               "We were standing on the foot-plate as we talked, and steam having been up some time and the water in the boiler somewhat low, I said to Jacobs, 'Bob, you'll have to run her down to the crossing and back a time or two to fill up the boiler.' 
               '"Right, you are, Mas'r Tom,' said Bob; 'but do you and Mas'r Mark take her down to the points and back again while I light my lamps and fill my oil can.' 
               "Here was one of the little chances we delighted in. It wanted exactly twenty minutes to eight when Mark turned on steam, and we glided slowly out of the engine-house, leaving old Jacob's trimming the 'Firefly's' lamps. We had run backward and forward over the hundred yards of rails between the crossing and the house when Mark's evil genius prompted him to exclaim: 
               "'I say, Tom, let's run over the points and down the line for half a mile or so; we can be back easy by eight o'clock.' 
               "No sooner said than done. When we reached the points I dropped off and opened the switches, thus shifting the engine on the up-line, upon which we proposed to indulge ourselves in some two or three minutes' gallop and then return. 
               "Now, in acting thus, you must understand that we did nothing involving any danger from ordinary sources, and were in all human probability perfectly safe from mishap. 
                
               "The next train was an up-express, not due at Coulston till 8:20 but which did not stop at Allonby. Nothing could possibly follow us from behind, for we were on the up line of rails; and, as we should be back again before eight o'clock, there was of course no danger to be apprehended from the coming train. Hibberd, on our return, had only to ship his lamps and start on the down line for Linchester. 
               "Our programme, however, was deranged in a way little expected. Prudent, if bold, we did not allow the delights of our gallop to detain us too long, and it wanted some minutes to eight when we passed the crossing on our way back to the engine-house. We had slackened speed on approaching the points, and were traveling slowly and quietly, when Mark shouted to me, 'Put down the brake, Tom, here's the 'Swallow' coming out at a lick, and no mistake!' In a moment we had stopped and reversed the 'Firefly,' and we began to move slowly ahead down the up-line again, greatly wondering what it all might mean, but not the least alarmed for our safety, since we had only to allow the "Swallow" gradually to overtake us and when she saw us (which, as we had no lamps, was not so easy) both engines might return together. Meanwhile, the giant behind us came on at such a rapidly increasing speed that we were unwillingly obliged to travel faster, as well. We shouted and tried to attract attention from her Engineer, but in vain, and we presently began to think that something must be wrong. At length Mark whispered, 'Tom, you may take my word for it that's the Governor, and he's mad drunk. Like enough he's got on the first engine that came to hand, and don't know at this moment if he's on the upper or down line, or what he's been drinking.' Here was a pleasant situation. 
               "It was just on the stroke of 8 o'clock; in another ten minutes at farthest the up-express would pass Allonby on its way to Coulston; before us therefore was the certainty of collision, and behind us an engine already running at a great rate, which increased with every minute, and driven by a man mad drunk-what was to be done? It was a case in which moments are precious, and decision must be the work of a second of time. 'Let us run for Allonby,' said Mark at once, with his hand upon the regulator. 'Keep the whistle open all the way, and trust in Providence they'll hear it and have time and sense to shut us on he 'down' before the express runs through.' 
               "I was for less vigorous measures. Something assured me that Mark was right, and that the engine behind us was driven by Hibberd in a state of intoxication; but I fancied that however drunk he might be, he would yet not be so utterly insane as to persist in running against certain destruction, provided we could make him understand his danger; so I proposed that we should slacken and let him overtake us, then climb upon the 'Swallow,' and by persuasion or force induce him to return. All this and much more passed between us in far fewer seconds than I take minutes to tell it to you; in fact, the whole affair was a succession of such rapid action following upon decision so swift that I find it impossible to give you the faintest idea of the startling suddeness with which the circumstances crowded on each other. For a moment Mark thinking, doubtless, more of his father than of himself-approved of my suggestion, and we slackened speed. By this time both engines were running at a pretty frightful velocity, and the 'Swallow' almost instantly overhauled us. No sooner did her bumpers touch ours, than Mark flung himself upon his father's engine. I watched him clamber along the boiler till I lost the outline of his figure in the darkness. A minute of unspeakable suspense followed, during which the 'Swallow' held on her rapid speed. I now did all I could to impede her progress. I shut off steam and screwed my brakes down till they were one sheet-of flame, but still the hinder engine drove me forward. At length, after what seemed a whole hour to me, I heard, above the din of the open whistle, a succession of yells mingled with hoarse curses. I closed the handle a moment to listen, and soon felt certain that a fearful struggle was going on between Hibberd and his son. I caught at the 'Swallow,' pulled myself on to her, and climbed as fast as I could toward the foot-plate. Half-way along the boiler I met Mark returning, reckless. 
                
               "'On to your engine" he screamed, 'and run for Allonby!' 
               "This was enough for me; it was no time to ask or answer questions, and another second or two saw us both upon the 'Firefly'-brakes up, whistle open, and all steam on. We drew quickly away from our companion; but the few minutes of delay had frightfully diminished our chances of safety. 
               "It was so dark that I could not clearly see Mark's face, but I knew from the disturbed appearance of his clothes there had been a tussel, and I said simply, 'Well, Mark?' While speaking, I opened the fire door, and, as the red gleam burst out, I started in renewed horror, for his whole face, neck and hands were covered with blood. 
               "'It's my own, Tom'; he whispered; and even while he spoke, with the certainty of an awful death before him, the noble fellow's eyes filled as he added, 'God help my poor father! he's seen his last spree.' 
               "In hurried words he told me that on reaching the foot-plate of the engine he found Hibberd alone, and raging drunk; that he had made an effort to reverse the 'Swallow's' gear, and in order to do so put his hand upon the starting lever. This fairly maddened Hibberd, who flew upon him before he could accomplish his object, and commenced the brief but deadly struggle I had heard. Mark was almost powerless in his father's strong hands, and escaped almost by a miracle from being dashed off on the line by a blow which felled him. In this fall his head was cut open against some of the iron work, and he was forced to return as I have described without gaining his end. But no kind of danger made the brave lad blench, and his eyes darkened and his teeth set as, with hand upon the whistle, he strained forward for a glimpse of Allonby signals. As for me, I grew sick; I took out my watch for what I feared the last time, glanced at the hands, and then sat down upon the tool-box, covered my face and wept bitter tears as I thought of the father at home who was so proud of me, and the mother whom I loved so dearly. A touch of Mark's roused me. I looked at the dial again, but could not read the figures; he took the watch from my hand, and his voice was quite steady as he said: 
                
               'Another two minutes for us Tom, and there are Allonby signals.' 
               "We had been travelling only eight minutes since we first saw our danger, but what an age it seemed!" In an instant he clasped me tight by the wrist, and whispered in my ear, 'The red lamps! It's all over. God help my poor father.' Again, though, he spoke out, strong and clear: 'Hold tight to me, Tom, and, when I say the word, jump for your life.' We stood a moment, poising ourselves upon the oscillating engine; then he shouted, 'Now!' and sprang. I was nervous; my foot slipped, and I fell along the foot-plate of the engine. In an instant there was a horrible grinding crash, a dazzling flash of light before my eyes, a huge heave upward and onward; then the blackness of darkness and insensibility. 
               "Six weeks afterwards, I was sufficiently recovered from fever-brought on by my injuries and the excitement of that night-to hear the sequel of the story. Beyond a broken leg and rib, I seemed to have escaped unharmed; but my arm was wrenched severely, and violent inflammation, accompanied by delirium, had, however, greatly retarded my recovery. 
               "Hibberd and Mark were both dead, the former greatly cut about the body, but the latter exhibiting no visible injury beyond a comparatively trifling wound in the head, serious, it is true, but not sufficient to have caused his death. He died from internal hemorrhage, and I alone knew that the scalp wound had been the work of the lad's own father. Concerning the great accident to the night express on the -- line at Allonby station, the newspapers of the time gave various accounts. To-night I have tried to give you a true and faithful history of the causes which produced that disaster, and of which a necessarily vague and incorrect version passed current with the public. 
               "I have lived a long life since that terrible night, but even if it were not otherwise indellibly stamped on my memory. I have here a reminder that would not let me forget.' He touched his left arm as he spoke with a gesture of pain, and adding, 'I fear it will finish me yet-I fear it will finish me yet,' he closed his kind eyes with a sigh, and relapsed into his customary silence." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               BACKING UP-A NIGHT'S RETROSPECTIONS. 
               "Jim Hook is not a bad fellow, Liv." 
               
                  Mr. was obsolete in the social parlance of the bluff, and little Frank Weston's minute bump of reverence, if indeed he ever possessed one, had long since been calloused into inactivity by the thumps and hard knocks of a chequered existence. He was defending the obnoxious Engineer against Livingston's denunciations. The scene was the office. The time was late evening. The actors were, Father Tom, Livingston and Frank. The usual outside gathering, of an earlier hour, had broken and scattered long since; but Father Tom lingered within over an "avenging sword," absorbed by its concluding sanguinary exploits, and Frank and the Secretary kept him company for comfort, as the night was exceptionally chilly out of doors. 
               "That is possible," said Livingston, in response to his odd little companion's assertion; "but I have failed to discover his virtues." 
               "There isn't much chance for the fellow to show what he is, down on that devilish bottom," returned Frank, persistently. "It's a mean, sickly place, full of fever and ague, and a man can't be blamed if his worst side shows out, when he never feels well." 
               "I do not care to discuss the man's merits," remarked the Secretary indifferently. "I simply declare that I don't like him, and that I have reasons for it. As for his health, seems to me, sick or well, I should hardly forget to be a gentleman." 
               Little Frank laughed. "I hardly think Jim knows the meaning of the word, as you understand it," he said. "He certainly is rough in his manners, and occasionally surly and sarcastic-perhaps you would call it bitter-in speech; but when one is used to his ways, there is nothing offensive in them. If he were more favorably situated, I think he would prove a pleasant companion, for his life, like my own, has been a varied one, and it has not been lived with shut eyes." 
               "You are evidently prejudiced in favor of my one antipathy," said Livingston. "I should hold to my opinion, most likely, if angels proclaimed him a saint-so enough of Jim Hook." 
               "Not quite enough, yet," remarked old Father Tom, putting in his pocket the well fumbled sanguinary sword, which had doubtless accomplished its final avenging business to his entire satisfaction-"not quite enough, yet, if you'll give me a word." 
               With respectful attention the two young men listened. 
               "Jim is scarcely the sort of fellow one elevates into a favorite on short notice," testified Father Tom, continuing; "but there is much good in him, after all. I count him among the best of my men. He has a stubbord pluck and an obstinate determination which are of infinite service and stand him instead of some important accomplishments, which are lacking in his education. He sticks to that unhealthy bottom, where I have never had another Engineer remain more than a month at a time, with an uncomplaining perseverance that is characteristic, and, as he is far from well-no one can hope to be perfectly so among the malarious influences of such low marshy ground-there is an admirable spirit in the man's persistent adherence to duty, which rises almost to sublimity. I believe the exercise of a singularly powerful will has enabled him, in some degree, to resist the miasmic diseases which have prostrated others, and I know it has helped him through many a difficulty in his railroad experience. But, aside from all business considerations, one trait in Hook's character has commanded my respect to an unusual extent. He never drinks strong liquor, and no amount of temptation has ever proved sufficient to shake his determined resolve against touching or tasting it. And what do you think is the cause of this rare total abstinence? Distaste for intoxicating beverages? No, for he is as fond of them as others. A desire to set himself above his companions, as purer and better than they? No, for he is incapable of seeking unenviable distinction in that direction. Fears for the effect of strong drink on his health? Not so, for situated as he now is, I believe an occasional indulgence would help him; indeed, it has been prescribed by physicians at Salell. But the boy is iron. The secret of his power of resistence is a remembrance of his dying mother's words of warning. She had known much sorrow through the excessive intemperance of Jim's father, and knew the dread danger of an appetite for liquor. Jim was young at the time of the poor lady's death, but he had already so completely acquired the sad habit of convivial tippling, that it cost him a terrible struggle to break off. He accomplished it, however, and has achieved that proud victory which, it is written, maketh a man 'greater than he who taketh a city.' He has conquered himself. I confess, therefore, to a liking and respect for Jim Hook, in spite of the fact that he seems not to get very near people's hearts; and I never sit silently and hear him misjudged or underestimated." 
               There was unbroken silence for a moment as Father Tom ceased his defence of his "boy," and the two sat lost in reflection. Then the elder resumed: 
               "You must pardon the old man, Edward, for interrupting you to such an extent. It is my rule to defend absent folks, when I can, and I often have to come to the rescue of Hook. If he has offended you, without reason, I do not wish to be understood as holding him excusable, by any means; but I hope what I have told you will incline you to judge him a little more favorably, even if you cannot forgive and forget what is past." 
               Having said which, Father Tom lighted his old chamber lamp, and, nodding good-night, went up-stairs to bed. 
               "All-right, Father Tom," Livingston cried, after the patriarch's vanishing heels-"all-right. I shall not be hard on Jim Hook after this." Then turning to Weston, a little humilliated, he said: 
               "After all, it is wrong to let trifles persuade us against a man's worth. I really begin to think it possible to respect and admire a person with out really liking him, which is something I could not have believed in before. I must own that your friend Hook is a hero after all. Did you hear these things of him for the first time this evening?" 
               "It is my first knowledge of Jim's better side," replied Weston, slightly triumphant; "but I instinctively felt there was something worth while in the fellow. However, he has never shown rudeness to me, and, perhaps, I understand such characters better than you, Liv., for I am more like them." 
               "How do you claim to be like them?" inquired the Secretary. Little Frank smiled at the question. 
               "Why, I mean that I have been a sort of mannerless desperado,"he said, "possibly more of a ruffian than the roughest of our boys, in spite of my fewer years. I ran away from home and went to sea when scarcely fourteen, and, until I came here to occupy the high and honorable position of 'Master to Lazarus,' my life was not one in whose history much refinement could be found. Jim Hook has been a circusperformer, and circus-men, generally, are believed to be quite bad enough; but I have been worse. So you see how there comes to be sympathy between your antipathy and myself." 
               "Jim Hook a circus-performer! of what sort? where? when?" 
               "I know little beyond the bare fact I have mentioned, though I think he did something in a gymnastic way, the trapeze, or flying-rope, or work in that line." 
               "How did he come to abandon the show business?" Livingston asked. 
               "Probably his health drove him from it; I do not know. At all events, he was most likely skilled in his feats, for he does nothing indifferently." 
               "You and Father Tom seem determined to weave a halo of romance around this man," said the Secretary, "which will drive me to like him in spite of myself. I have a weakness for heroes, and you are making him out one. But tell me of your own life, if it is not a secret?" 
               "No secret, Liv.," little Frank said, kindly, "at least not from you. I was born at Long Linden, a county-seat not far from Boston, and had, up to the time of desertion, a luxurious home and every advantage for education and advancement. Indeed, I was so fond of my books that, at twelve, I had mastered the studies which were needful for entering college, and was to have taken that step at a more advanced age. The delay was a whim of my father's, and, my mother having died in my infancy, I was wholly at the mercy of a parental tyranny as absolute and crushing as child ever endured. Until the time should arrive at which the governor intended to enter me for honors at his favorite university, I was placed in the charge of a tutor so strict in his discipline, and so cruel and cold, that he proved a good servant to his heartless employer, and ruled me with a rod of iron. If I had not been naturally rebellious, I think this hard treatment by the tutor and my father's unmerciful refusal to stand between me and deliberate wrong, would have driven me into extremes. As it was, I turned quickly against the oppression and injustice of an intolerable existence and fled. I had never loved my father-he was the harshest and most unlovable of beings-so it cost me no pang to escape from his power, and the galling severity of his inhuman menial. I made for the coast, inspired by that strange, fatal fancy for the sea which ruins so many young lives, and at Plymouth embarked, in an humble capacity, on a little craft, bound for Carthagenia, South America. My life was a desperately hard one for I was small and not strong, and failing to find the fair land of my dreams in the south, and dreading a return to the vicinity of home, I deserted the ship, when just about sailing again, and engaged on another for Europe. We landed at Liverpool, and so wretchedly incapable had I proved myself, during the voyage, that the Captain was glad to pay me off and discharge me. It saved me the trouble of running away, as I certainly should have done, sooner or later, and I found myself master of considerable funds, and free, for the first time in many long months. It was natural to turn towards London, and to that great Babel I went, living there, sailor-like, gaily and extravagantly, until my money was exhausted, and then coming down to low labor. I cleaned boots at a penny a pair, in the West London Brigade, at Trafalgar falgar Square, and about the region of Charing Cross Station; and afterwards found employment as 'call-boy' behind the scenes of the Victoria Theater, in Waterloo Road. Appearing on the stage, occasionally, as a supernumerary, gave me a taste for theatricals, and I studied industriously for usefulness in minor parts; but I was too small of stature for service in anything legitimate, and, after much hard experience and perpetual drilling, found myself reduced to unpalatable clownish characters in pantomime or burlesque. At last I obtained an engagement at the Alhambra Music Hall, in Leicester Square, and here might have prospered, but for a woman. She was a Spanish dancing-girl of remarkable beauty, and possessed all the grace, fire and incomparable fascination of the loveliest of her countrywomen. Of course, I fell desperately in love with this artful young goddess from the fair land of music and poetry and wine, and, for a time, was led captive at the wheels of her chariot. Her name was Lara Monteno, and she spoke English perfectly, having acquired the tongue from good teachers at home. She had many fine lovers before as well as behind the footlights of the Alhambra, and some of them noble. You will think it a strange choice of the girl, but of all the crowd swarming about her, she cared but for me. I was happy for a time, but the girl's favor procured me unpopularity, while her folly and extravagance cost me trouble and money. I was not born for constancy, and my fierce, burning love was finally smothered to death, so to speak, under Lara's increasing, overwhelming devotion. There was no longer peace, nor prosperity, nor progress, nor ambition in London, so I suddenly broke with the Monteno, after a stormy scene, and, leaving no trace of my whereabouts, hastened to Paris. Here, for a time, I was happy and content. The French of my boyhood, with a few weeks of practical polishing, served me admirably. I became an attache of the Salle Valentino in the Rue St. Honore, and afterward; performed at the Cafe Alcazar, which was then the most famous in Paris. I was only six months rid of Lara, however. After searching through England, she tracked me to France, and, once in the city of spies and surveillance, discovered me, quickly through the Commissary of Police. With her at my side, I was no longer independent, no longer master even of myself. Though love for the Spanish girl had long been a dream of the past, a thing to be talked about coldly and wondered at; some powerful charm that was not of the heart made me almost a slave in her presence. I knew not the secret of this deep fascination, but I felt it to my sorrow-and so have others. She influenced me as she pleased, and always for evil. I was badly inclined at the best. It would be folly to pretend otherwise. My alienation from home had made me a brute and a savage; but the necessities of my position at Paris imposed on my life such restrictions that I might have been saved from the deep degradation into which Lara Monteno deliberately led me, had I left her again and at once. It was not to be. She clung to me with a persevering fondness and a desperate determination indescribable, and, one day, when I had not yet reached the age of eighteen years, I married her." 
               "Married her!" echoed Livingston, able no longer to control his amazement-"you, a boy, a child, have been married?" 
               "Yes, married," little Weston continued, "you forget I am quite twenty-three. But age matters not. I married her, and did not love her. If you ask me why, I can only say it was her will. This had become sufficient to accomplish all things with me. We played together a short time in Paris, but now in low places and common resorts of the Quartier Latin, Mademoiselle, as she still chose to call herself, flirting with men just the same as of old, and I, looking on, with a baseness unequaled, and permitting, or at least not resenting it. When married a year we both went to England once more, and made a long tour through the provinces. It was a profitable trip, my nimble and novel representations as clown meeting gracious acceptance, and Lara's extraordinary beauty, aside from her marvelous dancing, creating a decided sensation. With pockets well loaded, we passed a gay winter in idleness, in Spain. Like the bohemians that we were, we waited for poverty to drive us to work. It pushed us anon. Leaving Madrid, we took to our wandering stage life again, and, playing gaily through France into England, bade farewell to Europe in Liverpool, where I had landed alone some four years before, and sailed for America. An accident on shipboard unfitted me for duty when we landed in Philadelphia, but Lara was speedily engaged, and resumed a most brilliant career as premiere danseuse in the opera ballet. I lay in an hospital, by my lady's good pleasure, while she danced her way into dollars and hearts, and flirted and trifled with men in a bold, shameless way. Neglected, disheartened, bedridden and poor, she left me, to die if I would, but to suffer and struggle through into health, if I might, without help or encouragement on her part. She returned the compliment of my desertion at London. I was friendles, alone, and among strangers, when the charities of some Catholic sisters had nursed me back slowly to something like health, but I think it was a relief-I believe I was absolutely glad to hear that my vain wife had fled with another. I knew not and cared not with whom. I only remember that my hope and my prayer was to never behold her again. And I never have, Liv. I turned my face westward, when strength was recruited, and worked for a year on the river. This country afforded no field for my clownish performance on the stage, and, Lara's part wanting, my own was nothing. So I toiled as a fireman with old Captain Wells on the small steamer "Wave," and reached my promotion to Lazarus' back through paymaster Jerkman's kind influence." 
               "A wonderful history!" Livingston exclaimed, surveying little Frank with unbounded surprise; "and you have not seen your father in all these long years?" 
               "Never. I do not even know if he lives." 
               "Nor your wife?" 
               "Living or dead, I know not; I care not." 
               "Is your father's name Weston?" asked the secretary, in obedience to a sudden suspicion. 
               "No; the right name is Wesley. I don't mind you knowing it, Liv., for I think you are prudent. My father's full name was John Wolverton Wesley." 
               "Great heavens!" cried Livingston, "that's the name of a Lamoille Railway director." The secretary had frequently seen it on the papers and books of the company which passed through his hands. "Can it be the same, Frank?" 
               "It is far more than likely," the other replied, "but who cares?" 
               "You should; nine years may have changed him to something more gentle and kind. Then he is powerful and rich, and could do so much for you. I cannot realize such a thing out of romance. The son of a prominent, wealthy director performing such work as--" 
               "No more, if you please," interrupted little Frank. "A century would not put mercy in that man's hard heart; and, even if it had, I could not forget the deep wrongs of my childhood, and should spurn his assistance, even if I needed it. But I do not. The work of which you were about to speak disparagingly is but a stepping-stone to something better. It gives me time for study, improvement and reflection, and I like it. It seems to me one of the striking peculiarities of railway service, that in this hope of eventual advancement there lies such a wealth of content. No matter how humble an employe's duties may be, there is nothing degrading in the performance of them. There appears very little of that spirit of pride and exclusiveness which attach so inseparably to other departments of business. We are here, like the children of a great powerful family; those in the lower positions, as it were in the nursery, to be taught, and reared, and elevated as time and developing talent may determine; those higher up being teachers, examples and guides, whose successes and triumphs and promotions are sources of joy to their nursery brethren, both because it is good for the one who advances, and because of the encouragement it gives to their own growing hopes. Little as my task may seem to partake of the nature of railroading in the abstract, I am yet one of the family, and have had a sharp look into its harmonious life. The result is, I am charmed with it, in a mysterious, indescribable way, and one of these days hope to prove myself worthy of some of its honors." 
               "There certainly is a remarkable infatuation about railroad life," remarked Livingston, musingly. "I have experienced it myself, and I think its strange influence is generally felt on the line, and is the secret of much that is heavily laborious, daring and dangerous, which is so cheerfully and thanklessly undertaken by the company's unflinching servants." 
               "Either by chance, or through the contagious influences of an elevating existence, they are all noble fellows," continued little Frank, in his enthusiastic strain, "I like them as I have never liked men before, and find myself tamed down and humanized by association with them. It may be that the excitement of danger has something to do with it, but life on an engine seems to me like enchantment. I have known what it was to be thrilled by the electric applause of a theatre, full of excited spectators, and it is far from an ordinary emotion; but nothing ever equalled the wild fascination of a ride on a foot-board, as I have occasionally experienced it by the favor of Hook and Jack Howland. I confess to you, Liv., that my first thought in seeking this place was other than that which inspires me to-day. I wanted seclusion and isolation; I wanted change and occupation; I wanted reformation; I wanted forgetfulness; I wanted mental repose, and bodily exertion; I wanted a refuge from the thronged haunts of men, away from all danger of ever encountering Lara again, or meeting my father. But I find myself involuntarily civilized; I find railroad men, who have been misrepresented to me, as ignorant, boorish, and desperate characters, men full of intelligence, kind heartedness, gentleness and humanity instead. If they are not devoted to the graces and formalities, which obtain in society elsewhere, at least they have manliness, honesty, integrity and fidelity which are virtues more commendable than mere cultivated refinement. I have been inspired by their friendship to improvement and reformation, and old Father Tom has about made a Christian out of me." 
               "Gods! boy, were you an infidel?" cried the patiently listening Livingston. 
               "No, only a clown," returned Frank, smiling, "and always likely to remain one, in part, whatever else I become." 
               "What has Father Tom done?" 
                
               "Much," replied the ex-clown. "He has believed in me, trusted me, taught me, and lighted up slumbering ambitions in my world-weary soul. That's the way to reform sinners" 
               "He is a noble old man." 
               "He is a saint," exclaimed little Frank. 
               "You will doubtless seek promotion in a mechanical way, then?" inquired Livingston. 
               "Yes, and my first advancement has already arrived." 
               "I am glad to hear that," said the Secretary heartily; "how have I heard nothing of it?" 
               "Well, it's not much to boast of, and I doubt if you'd consider it a considerable promotion, Liv., to go down to the bottom and throw chunks for Jim Hook." 
               Livingston shrugged unconvinceable shoulders. 
               "I shouldn'nt care for it for myself," he said. 
               "But I do, Liv.," urged little Frank, "it's a good position in which to exhibit one's capacity for being 'jolly' under adverse circumstances, like Dickens' 'Mark Taply.' Not that I question getting on with Jim Hook, very smoothly; but the work of the bottom is trying to one's physical endurance, and the climate thereof even more so-to say nothing of mental derangement." 
               "So you are about to try firing for Hook; and who then falls heir to the vacant saddle of the amiable Lazarus?" 
               "One of Jack Howland's wild boys," replied Frank. "I was around to Jack's cottage on the bluff side this evening to convey the good news; but the old man is away down the line, and the boys were out helling. Of course, Mrs. H was delighted, as she thinks steady work may be the saving of Bill. A dear, motherly old woman is Jack's better half, and I was glad to be able to give her such pleasure." 
               "When does your new work commence?" 
               "In the morning, if that rascally Bill is forthcoming. I do my last task in the saddle to-night-wish me joy." 
               "I wish you success in the new field, assuredly," Livingston said heartily, shaking the little man's hand, and remarking its singular symmetry and softness. "We won't call it joy, if you please; that were sarcasm; but I certainly hope you'll get on agreeably." 
               "Thanks, Liv.," returned the new Fireman with feeling; "you are a devilish good-fellow. Worthy to be a railroader-and that's the best thing I can say of any one. Good-night." 
               "Good-night," echoed the Secretary warmly. 
               The agile ex-clown scorned a doorway. He laid his hand slightly on Livingston's desk, as the parting salutations were exchanged, and with quickness and grace bounded out through a high open window, and melted silently into the darkness and was gone. 
               It was later than usual when Ned Livingston put out the few office lights, on that cool summer night, and went thoughtfully up into his numerously occupied sleeping apartment. It was his custom to disrobe in the darkness, both to avoid drawing insects, which a lamp would have attracted, and to considerately spare his slumbering, hard-worked companions unnecessary disturbance. So, quietly, in the gloom, he made ready for rest, and threw himself wearily into the couch. But it was long before sleep touched his eyelids, and that queer, semi-somnolent state, which lies between sleeping and waking, was filled with odd visions which little Frank's story had called into being. Beautiful Spanish girls danced through his brain, and, as he followed, in fancy, the strange, wild career of the poor, homeless boy, from his rich father's house at Long Linden to the cab of Jim Hook's locomotive, on the bottom, a chaos of theatres, cafes and gardens, blended London, Paris and Madrid; and sailors, and shoeblacks, and clowns, played pranks with his sense of congruity. He had scarcely droppped off into actual slumber, when the night train came thundering in-the train for which Frank had been waiting-and, after the needful delay, his unknown, mysterious bed-fellow, Extract, came quietly up for a short wink of sleep. 
               "Are you later than usual?" the Secretary inquired, having speech with the unknown at last, as that victim of bitters rolled in by his side. "Much later," the strange voice of Extract replied; "the road is in such a condition, for the need of more gravel, that trains cannot make schedule time and run safely. We are always behind." 
               "Is not gravel to be had?" 
               "Only a very poor quality," Extract explained: "there are excellent pits to be opened in the fall, when track has been laid to Coon Hill, but at present no good ones are accessible." 
               "There seem to be repairers enough, if one may judge by the pay rolls," Livingston ventured again. 
               "Yes, an army of them," said Extract; "but for scores of miles now the road-bed which is leveled in the morning is out of condition by night, and with the number of heavy trains running which the company's business, demands, no amount of repairing will keep a road smooth. I expect to bring up in the ditch every time I pass over it, and though I've been a Conductor for nearly five years on hard western lines, it is the roughest, most dubious traveling, on this infernal highway, that I ever experienced." 
               "The expenses which come under the head of 'repairs' are enormous," said the Secretary, airing his official and financial information still further. "I should suppose so," returned Extract rather feebly, as if the unconsciousness of sleep were overcoming his disposition to be sociable. "But the company must expect-heavy-outlay-building-new-road-country-will-" 
               The rest was a snore. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               CONDUCTORS-IDEAL AND REAL. 
               One morning at day-break-which means four o'clock in mid-summer-a messenger brought Edward Livingston word from the convent that Paymaster Jerkman desired an immediate interview. It was an unprecedented event, and the Secretary was both surprised and alarmed; but he toiletted briefly and hastened to his good friend's apartment, in a wing of Mr. Beliful's abode, finding that superior official already industriously engaged in an early attack on his perpetual pipe. He was clad in voluminous robes, not of state but of sleep, and did not appear in distress from mental or physical ailing. His pleasure was promptly and briefly communicated. Charley Lamble was ill; there was no extra Conductor to supply his important position on the express train to Bloom, his Baggageman was new to the line, and of questionable ability at the best, and no one of proper experience seemed just now available. What was to be done? Livingston speedily comprehended the situation. The hour had arrived for his usefulness to assert itself boldly, if any such quality existed in his hitherto unanalyzed composition. 
               "Are you equal to the occasion?" asked the Pay-master's voice, the Paymaster himself becoming invisible in dense clouds of smoke. 
               "I am equal to an attempt," said the Secretary, doubtful though willing; "the result must determine my ability." 
               "Who will you have for Engineer?" required the voice from its now unseen source. 
               "Si Parrington, if possible." 
               "Very well," came from behind the thick clouds. "Make haste to Salell and get your passengers over the bottom and up the incline as expeditiously as may be, so as to have as much time for the start from Pickatonic as you need. Meanwhile, I will see Father Tom and have Si at your service. Lamble's Baggageman is something of a Count d'Orsay, but he'll do in an emergency, and the regular Brakemen of the train are good boys, Chet Langham especially, whom it will do to rely on in case of any difficulty." 
               Livingston thought of his last night's conversation with the mysterious Extract, and winced just a trifle at Jerkman's suggestive allusion to difficulty, but his pride kept him silent on the subject of danger, and the figure of the white-robed official becoming once more dimly perceptible, through the interrupted performance of the Paymaster, Livingston bowed his adieu to it politely but familiarly, received a silver badge of office and started with speed for Salell. 
               Not without misgivings, perhaps, but with almost as joyous a heart as he had first borne across it, Ned Livingston paced the broad bottom again, to commence the execution of his novel and responsible duty. He was conscious of a feeling of pride at the confidence reposed in him, for, young and inexperienced as he may be said to have been, at this early period of his railroad career, he knew that the position of Conductor was no sinecure, such as the world believes it. He had been long enough behind the scenes of railroad life, as it were, to erase any preconceived notions of a passenger Conductor's delightfully varied and comparatively easy, irresponsible existence on the rails. As a traveler, beholding but one simple phase of the much-abused official's laborious life, the amiable young Secretary may have been led into the popular error that to be a conductor requires but a social disposition, a taste for fine clothes and a certain amount of shrewdness, sufficient to conceal invariable peculations; but intimate contact with the men thus misjudged, misunderstood and undervalued, had worked a revolution in his mind. So he was far from indifferent to the honor of being ranked, even temporarily, among the honorable, able brotherhood, whom he respected and admired. He remembered distinctly a recent defence of the railway Conductor by Mr. Benjamin F. Taylor, who regards that conspicuous functionary of the railway as one of the novel productions of the age-a recent phase of humanity and modern civlization. 
               "Amid the roar of a score or two of iron wheels, and flying like a bird, he must lead a quiet life; accurate amid censure and complaint, prompt as the sun, a first-rate Conductor can be made out of no poorer material than a first-rate man. Job was never a Conductor. That trial was spared him. Of all sorts of people, all sorts of money, all sorts of weather, he is the special victim. He cannot keep aloof from a bear or a boor, any more than he can from a bride or a beauty. Like Death, he must approach 'with equal step,' and pay his respects to everybody. He must be accommodable for the snow-drift that obstructs the track, for the broken bar that tumbles the train into the ditch, for the cars that failed 'to connect' He must know when everybody will get everywhere, what it will cost to go, and where it is best to stay; he meets people, sometimes, who do not know where they are going, and he must be able to tell them; people who do not know where they got aboard, and must gently remind them. Thus tossed to and fro in the train, in this queer game of battledoor, he must keep his temper, his integrity and 'his soul in patience." 
               What wonder there is sometimes a surly one! To one who understands all the trials and annoyances-petty, perhaps, in most cases, but incessant and countless, and which render the life of a Conductor one of restlessness, anxiety and care, the wonder is not that impatience and vexation, sometimes prevail, but that they are not the rule instead of the exception. But notwithstanding all this, increasing familiarity with facts served only to increase his surprise at the unflinching, unwavering rectitude of the class of employes in question. He found them men who had served a long and trying apprenticeship in numble and subordinate positions (on the Lamoille line, or some other,) which, as they must of necessity be intelligent and courteous gentlemen to begin with, was a test in itself of no trifling dimensions. He found that they had won their way slowly by promotion to the position of "Conductor," exhibiting at each ascending step, talents and self-abnegation, business capacity and endurance, that in other, less strictly exacting ing, departments of commerce might have secured them distinction and fortune. He found them entering boldly upon a career, the very title of which, in the world's doubting eyes, is synonomous with stealing; and, scorning society's disparaging estimate of their characters, stubbornly refusing to be pushed into an enjoyment of the game, because suffering from the misapplication of a name. And this is no trifle. There is such an inherent tendency in man to be no better than he is supposed to be. If any good fellows are possibly driven to dishonesty, thought Livingston, as he wisely reflected and rapidly walked, it is hardly a matter for individual blame. It is the fault of a degenerate public sentiment, which will not discriminate; and a false general belief in human depravity. The temptation to evil is great, to be sure, because detection is so difficult, and the company's servant is often unappreciated, and sometimes under-paid; and man is only mortal at the best; yet, in spite of these reasons why many should fall, the fallen are few, and railroad Conductors, as a class, are as honest and honorable, and deserve to take rank in society as high, as the highest of trusted incumbents in other financial positions. Why is your bank cashier better, Mrs. Grundy? How is the treasurer of your Insurance Company superior? Livingston's sensible reflections were suddenly terminated by his arrival at a diminutive depot which answered the purpose of a passenger-house on the Salell side of the bottom. Travelers were already arriving on foot, in stages, hacks and omnibuses; but there was no opportunity to notice peculiarities, for they readily stowed themselves away in the sung little coaches, resembling street-cars, which, from their lightness of construction, were better adapted to the bottom and the plane than ordinary coaches. A flat car, piled, and being piled, with promiscuous baggage, was supplying the place of a baggage van, and, reversing the natural order of things, Jim Hook's locomotive was attached to the rear of the train, impatiently waiting to push its load over to the foot of the inevitable incline. This awkward manner of proceeding was necessary in order to have no intervening obstacle, on arriving at the foot of the bluff, between the coaches and the elevating hook-the engine having constitutional stitutional objections to making such a steep ascent. When Livingston adjusted the badge marked "Conductor" to the front of his hat, he was pleasantly saluted by little Frank Weston, already installed as Fireman on Hook's engine "B," as the locomotive was called. The short-sighted original company had exhibited remarkably limited views by commencing to distinguished their machines by letters, and were doubtless surprised at finding the alphabet give out, when their needs had unexpectedly increased, beyond twenty-six. The embryo Conductor fancied he detected a faint smile of sarcasm lurking in his Engineer's twinkling gray eye, as the signal was given for starting; but he turned to his duties, indifferent to trifles, and absorbed by the responsibilities at hand. 
               The Baggageman, Smith, was not a fair specimen of his class; for, with all the abuse that is heaped on their heads, they are really a respectable, well-informed, civil set of fellows; as different from the ruffianly, ignorant, rough-mannered "trunk smashers" of popular fancy, as it is possible to imagine. Smith was an exquisite. He deserved the unenviable title which that inevitable "re-christenist," Jerkman, had bestowed on him-the Count d'Orsay. So elegant was he, that the very dogs committed to his care gave an extra admiring wag of their discriminating tails on beholding him; and he, being very kindly disposed towards the dogs, in return, (most likely out of respect for the "whiskey dimes" resulting from their transportation,) there existed the best possible understanding between pups. While other Baggage-masters were occasionally bitten in the calf, or ferociously attacked in the rear, by the aforesaid four legged "items" of baggage, the crooked and tightly encased limbs of the dandy remained sacred and inviolate-not through any fastidiousness on the part of the animals, but the result of peculiar and excessive amity between the canines and the Count. His elegance was not confined to extravagance in dress. He was scented and curled and dyed and oiled to an alarming extent. Lodging once in a room of old Hardy's hard tavern at Salell, which communicated with another by a stove-pipe hole only, he is reported to have driven into retreat and exile a party of Firemen and Brakemen who were his neighbors-the fleeing crowd swearing that Smith's "stunning" per fumes kept them constantly sick at the stomach. The boys distorted his elegant title, and perverted it into De-horse eye, and made him the butt of a world of poor jokes for his flashy and inappropriate costumes. Now, if there is any class of persons on earth who, more than any other, would seem to require plain, easy apparel, from the nature of their occupation, it is Train Baggage-masters. And, for a person whose duties are of necessity rough, and the scene of whose labors is tolerably obscure, in a region of dust-covered boxes and trunks, to array himself richly in broadcloth, fine linen, patent-leather light gloves and superfluous jewelry, seems, to a practical, sensible man absurd to an intolerable degree. Such an one was the weak-minded, oily-headed, crooked-legged Count De-horse-eye; as different from the simpler, more gentlemanly style of Si Parrington as can well be conceived. But, as has been said, he was not a fair representative of his tribe. 
               Livingston distributed old Borie's green tickets-the railroad's unavoidable tribute to the ferryman's charter-hastily among his passengers, which were as quickly taken up again by Borie himself, following eagerly and suspiciously after, and this comprised about all that belonged to the preliminary duties of "conducting" over the bottom and the bridge. 
               Once safely arrived at the top of the bluff, and his passengers and baggage set in motion for a speedy and comfortable transfer to the regular express train in waiting, Livingston found time to run up into Charley Lamble's little bed-room for a few friendly inquiries, and to ask any kindly advice that the sick brother's larger experience might suggest. On the way up he unexpectedty encountered Mrs. Link, who, taken unawares and without her man-protector, sought refuge in her apartment in a very precipitate manner, where, safely intrenched, she peered forth on the audacious secretary, as if his intrusion into the sacred seclusion of the convent were worthy of Papal anathema. Nor were the affairs of men so indifferent to the angular dame but that she listened through a crack of the door during the secretary's entire interview with Lamble. He found that young gentleman wrapped in the folds of a becoming, loose dressing-gown, and reclining on the outside of his couch; for, early as was the hour, Mrs. Pees sat beside him, apparently equipped for a journey. That lady exhibited a proper degree of embarrassment at being discovered on such intimate terms with the handsome young Conductor, and, after salutations were exchanged and her blushes had somewhat subsided, she seemed to fall into a sort of mathematical reverie, and industriously occupied herself tracing figures of eight on the carpet with her parasol tip. Livingston wondered why ladies, under certain circumstances, always did trace that particular figure on the floor, and what special charm there could be about it, above all other numerals, to quiet the nerves of the disconcerted. That it is an invariable custom even his limited observation had discovered long before. 
               "I'm not very bad, Neddy," said Charley Lamble, in answer to his friend's kindly inquiries. "Not seriously sick, you know, but threatened with chills and fever again, and I think of running up to Cargo for better medical advice than Salell affords." 
               "Do you go to-day?" 
               "This very morning, if I am able to reach Salell in time for the train." 
               "But are you equal to the journey?" inquired Livingston. 
               "Yes," replied Lamble, "the ride is not tedious. It is only a hundred miles, and they run it in less than five hours. My greatest trouble will be getting from here to the train." 
               "I wish I could be here to help you," the secretary said, heartily sorry for the threatened indisposition of his handsome young comrade. "You must take better care of yourself, Charley, or, it may be my misfortune to fall heir to your train as a permanent legacy, and I am not at all anxious for such a bequest." 
               Lamble lifted his sad eyes a moment to Livingston's, and languidly smiled at his friend's apprehensions. 
               "I have very good care," he said, indicating Mrs. Pees in a way imperceptible to that mathematical female. "Every one is very attentive and considerate." 
               "O, I doubt not that," remarked the secretary, significantly. "It is not better care at the hands of your friends, you require, but a bit more of discretion in guarding yourself against the variations of this curious climate. I have seen you exposed, on the night-run, especially, with a recklessness simply suicidal. You could not be more careless if you, actually, wanted to throw your existence away." 
               "My very words," spoke Mrs. P., earnestly, having, seemingly, accomplished some satisfactory result in her arithmetical calculations. "I tell Mr. Lamble, frequently, that he is throwing his life away." And she looked at the graceful young fellow tenderly, for an instant, as if she would save his life, gladly, if she might by any means possible to woman's weak powers. 
               "You are all very kind," Lamble said, with a sigh, giving no answering look to the lady's quick glance of anxiety and affection; "but need lessly apprehensive, I think. I have lived through so much that I do not believe myself easy to kill." 
               It was the only allusion to a troublous past Ned Livingston had ever heard his friend make, and it was accompanied by an expression of such pain that he hastened to change the subject. 
               "I presume I am to have the pleasure of your company, down the road this morning," he said to Mrs. Pees, who blushed at the remark, and returned to her tracings of eight on the carpet. 
               "No, sir," she said, with some hesitation, "I-I-I hardly think of taking the trip this morning, I am dressed for-for-for an early walk." 
               The toilette was too elaborate to have been prepared solely for pedestrianism about Pickatonic, and Livingston noticed the circumstance. He suspected her of having intended an excursion down the road under Lamble's conductorship, and of abandoning the idea only when it was found that another would go out in command of the train. The Secretary was scarcely capable of jealousy, in this connection, but he was not much flattered by the circumstance, and asked no more questions. The creaking of Mrs. Link's door, on the opposite side of the hall, gave notice to Livingston's vigilant ear that the spy of the convent was taking an occasional peep into Lamble's apartment, and he marveled a little at the failure of the two most interested to observe such an impertinent disturbance. Was it the unsuspecting ignorance of innocence, or simply the stolid indifference of hardened offenders, familiar with sin and careless of consequences? 
               Livingston had not satisfactorily determined, when a voice, full of anger, broke up his reflections and resounded through the house: 
               "Sal., Sal., Sa-a-a-a-a-al!" it cried, and the tones were those of Cleopatra Skew, who, a few seconds after, would have bounced through the wide open door, in the terrifying costume of a much-ruffled night-gown, had not Mrs. P. met her in a violent collision. It was the case of an in-coming train, running wild, and meeting an outward-bound regular passenger train on its own time and track. Everybody hurt. Nobody to blame. 
               "Sal. Volatile," as Charley had playfully named Sarah Pees, for her fullness of spirits backed the other out into the hall, with some roughness; and then came to the ears of the listeners those terms of endearment which are generally exchanged when woman meets woman in the discord of war. 
               "You indecent creature," cried Sal., to the ruffled intruder, when that reckless young female had been backed out of sight. 
               "No more than yourself, you deceitful, you hussy, you cat!" 
               Pat was angry beyond mollification; but the other attempted no soothing. 
               "What are you doing about the house in your night-clothes, you vixen-you jealous, mean trollop?" Sal. Volatile asked. 
               "Looking for you, you sly witch," returned Pat, with emotion. "Where are you stealing off to, at this time of day, saying nothing to nobody, and leaving me behind?" 
               "Going for a walk-just for a walk," replied Sal., considerably flustered. "Can't a person go out for a stroll, and a sniff of fresh air without waking the whole town up about it-say, you-you-you thing?" 
               "Yes, likely enough," sneered Pat. through her tears, for to be called a "thing" was to Cleopatra the crowning indignity of the squabble. "Likely enough, Sally Pees, when you're be-dressed and be-frizzled to kill, and sit jabbering with men in their bed-rooms. You were going off down the road with Charley Lamble, and wanted to play sweet on him all by yourself, you bold, shameless-" 
               "For Heaven's sake, shut that hall door, Ned," Lamble exclaimed in disgust and impatience, fairly writhing on his couch as the gentle dispute of the fair ones assumed this personal aspect. "Let us have a moment's peace." 
               Livingston suspected he had been having too many "moments of Pees," but didn't say so. He was provoked with himself for indulging in a mental pun. Then, hurriedly (for time was now pressing), Charley conveyed to his friend some points of importance to be observed in the run of the express, and, loaning him the neat little conductor's box, he was accustomed to carry, containing a number of nameless conveniences for the business of the trip, he wished him good luck and bade him good-bye. And, just as the few words of parting were spoken, a series of short, piercing shrieks from Si. Parrington's engine gave notice to the delinquent of train-time, at hand, and proclaimed the prompt Engineer's inclination to be off. 
               The battle of the beauties had ended, when Livingston hastened down stairs in response to the locomotive's call, and the angelic beings had vanished; but he saw in the hall, as results of the conflict, a small damaged parasol and a detached and much tumbled ruffle of a night-cap. And he heard, from a not very distant apartment, the sound of continued high words and half-suppressed sobs. Also, a low chuckle saluted his ears, on the exit; as the vicious nun, Link, enjoyed by herself the rough scene she had, clandestinely, witnessed, and exulted at the secrets to which she now held a clue. 
               When Livingston appeared on the platform to assure himself, by a brief examination, that everything was just as it should be, before starting, he observed Miss Clotty Leonardi emerge from her mother's amphibious retreat, and, with considerable ungraceful speed and an air of much secrecy, convey to the dandy Train-Baggageman a mysterious bottle of spiritual comfort. The Count, having completed his business of sorting and piling his luggage, and, having reserved from the lot a soft trunk for a seat, was reclining thereon with a cigar in his mouth. He smiled one of his dog-subduing smiles on the unprepossessing Clotty, as she handed him the present from under her apron, and waved many kisses after her retreating heels, in acknowledgement of the impulsive girl's flattering proof of preference. Clotty seemed attracted by the radiant raiment of the Count, as a homely little bug is attracted by the flame of a candle, and her destruction might have been as speedy and as certain had the Baggageman not been a sort of migratory, temporary sort of a luminary, which never remained quiet sufficiently long to do serious damage. The strategy displayed in delivering the bottle was amusing to Livingston, and there seemed to him nothing suspicious in the circumstance, at the time; but he remembered it long afterwards. 
               The hour for starting had fully arrived, and everything was in order. "All aboard!" cried Livingston, as he waved his hand to the watchful and impatient Engineer; and the train moved rapidly away, with a low, rumbling sound. The new Conductor was a little bit nervous, but he determined to play his part bravely and exhibit no weakness. So he remained on the platform in orthodox fashion, until the rear car arrived at the point where he stood, and then jumped on with a professional nonchalance happily copied from our very best models." Fortunately, he did not break his neck by the experiment. Jerkman and old Father Tom stood together at the office to see the young amateur pass in his newly assumed and most difficult character. As long as the rear of the train was in view, the Paymaster saluted his departing lieutenant with the most extravagant of oriental salaams, and the Master Mechanic applauded his young friend's deportment with a boisterous clapping of hands, which was meant for affectionate encouragement. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               RUNNING THE. EXPRESS.-GETTING KNOWLEDGE AND "KNOCKING DOWN." 
               Who sneers at the labor Conductors perform? The traveler by rail must be experienced, indeed, and much more than commonly observing, if he has come to a full realization of the arduous mental and bodily work involved in conducting a large and well-loaded fast passenger train. And the occasional tourist knows nothing whatever of the matter 
               Livingston was familiar with the line, for he had traversed it frequently during his few months of railroading in every conceivable way; sometimes on foot, often in the temporary pay-car (whose questionable convenience and positive discomfort discouraged much use,) and oftener still or, on an engine, a hand-car, a common mud flat, or in the "caboose" of a freight train. So he knew the road thoroughly, and a knowledge of stations and their distances from the termini and from each other could scarcely be counted a trifle; but it formed a small part of his needful information. Had he not known much else, he would not have been trusted with the care of some hundreds of priceless human lives, and thousands upon thousands of dollars worth of the company's most valuable equipments. And if there had been any danger of his forgetting any item in the catalogue of duties belonging to the occasion, a formidable list of "regulations-for passenger Conductors," posted in Lamble's small check-trunk, would have served to remind him. 
               He knew that every Conductor must carry a reliable, superior watch, always carefully set to the true time established at headquarters and he was provided with an incomparable "National" from Elgin. He knew that, as one of the train men, he must hold himself under the orders of, and responsible to, Train Masters, while out upon the road. An order generally ignored for good reasons. He knew that there was a rule for him to be on duty at the terminus at least half an hour before his train is to start; to see that the cars are all in order, and to get others, if any be not so; to see that the water cans, stoves, etc., are well supplied, the lamps freshly trimmed and filled and that the couplings are securely adjusted. If the actual performance of some of these things falls sometimes to others than Conductors, the responsibility is their's all the same. But the seemingly interminable list of instructions continued as follows: 
               "4th. He must see that his passengers are all seated, taking care to anticipate a possible demand for extra cars, but preventing the monopoly of two seats by one person, and insisting that persons shall not stand on the platforms while the train is in motion." 
               "5th. He must be polite to all, and especially courteous and attentive to his passengers." Which is equivelent to saying that he must be a gentleman; and therefore is superfluous. 
               "6th. He must see that fires are kept up, when the weather requires it, and that the passengers are regularly supplied with water; and when cars are not properly cleaned, must report to the Superintendent." 
               "7th. He must be cleanly and tidy about his person in all respects, and habited as a gentleman." Which regulation is commended to the particular notice of those who are inclined to condemn any symptoms of fashion in a railroad Conductor. 
               "8th. He will have entire charge and control of the train, and all persons employed upon it, and is responsible for its movements while on the road, except when his directions conflict with the General Regulations, or involve any risk or hazard, in either of which cases all participating will be held alike accountable." 
               "9th. He must personally see that the Instructions are observed by those under him, and report, daily, all violations of them." 
               "10th. He is responsible for attaching the tail lamps to the last car of the train, and must see that the red flags or lanterns are upon the engine when his train is to be followed by another; when a rear car is detached on the way, he must see that the tail-lamps are removed and reattached to his train." 
               "11th. It is his duty to check the Engineers when they run unsafely, and prescribe to them, when he sees fit, the regular rates allowed on the Table, or slower rates if the track is in bad order." Which peculiar regulation comes rarely into use, from the fact that Engineers do not often indulge in running "unsafely," and Conductors of sense do not "see fit" very often to meddle with the management of Engineers, who are necessarily much better informed than any others concerning the condition of the track." 
               "12th. Conductors must be careful never to make the signal for starting while passengers are getting on or off his train." A very absurd piece of instruction and since American travelers especially make it a point never to enter or leave a passenger coach except it is fairly in motion, and there is the pleasant risk of a serious accident to be encountered. The Conductor on a railway of the United States who amiably delays his signal for starting until his passengers are safely bestowed, may as well tie up for the season, or retire with his train to a permanent switch. 
               "13th. On arrival at the end of his trip, or at their leaving place, or before, he must see that his passengers understand all arrangements as to connections with other roads, coaches, omnibuses, etc." See that they understand! O, yes. 
               "14th. It is his duty to attend to the proper, correct and prompt delivery of all letters, manifests, and other papers and material for the Company's use, which may be sent by his train. 
               "15th. He must examine his train and see that all necessary tools for relief in a 'breakdown' are on board and in good order." 
               "16th. The Conductor will permit no intoxicated, or violently disposed person to ride on his train, or to occupy a place in it, to the annoyance of his passengers. He is authorized, therefore, at all times, to relieve his train of such persons by putting them off at regular stopping-places, using no unnecessary force or violence in the exercise of the duty." 
               "17th. The Conductor will allow no baggage to be carried in the passenger cars, except such small articles as may be conveniently hung up, or otherwise disposed of, so as not to inconvenience the passengers generally." 
               "18th. If any passenger in the train shall be unprovided with a ticket, the Conductor will in all cases charge the full amount of fare, and not deduct the ten cents allowed when tickets are sold by the Agents at Stations. The only exceptions to this rule are, when, from the absence of the Agent, or at Stations where tickets are not sold, the passenger may have found it impossible to procure a ticket before entering the train." Which raises more "rows" on American railway lines than any other requirement in force, because, simple and reasonable as it is, there seems a perverse determination on the part of travellers to misunderstand its true meaning. Invariably it is construed into an exaction and an extortion, while, in reality, it only demands legal fare on the trains, and deducts a percentage from regular rates for those who take the trouble to buy tickets. 
               "19th. Whenever on duty he must wear his badge conspicuously, so that strangers may be at no loss in addressing themselves for information and assistance; and he must also require his Baggageman, and Brakemen to do the same." 
               "20th. He must report promptly, to the Superintendent, whatever affects the success of the train." 
               "21st. He must, in all cases, report promptly at the end of his round trip, the running of his train, and take especial care to include timely notice of all delays, accidents, cattle injuries, etc." 
               "22nd. Conductors will see that the bell-cord is properly adjusted, before starting, and will not allow it to be disconnected until the train has arrived at the end of his trip." 
               "23rd. At stopping places he will announce, or have announced, the name of the Station, and (when the stay is to exceed three minutes) give notice of the time of remaining." 
                
               In addition to these special instructions, directed especially to Passenger Conductors, there were points about signals (with bells, whistles, lanterns or flags) to be observed, and a formidable array of General Regulations, on various subjects, which well might have daunted a much braver heart than Ned Livingston's. In the baggage car's little retiring room, where a keen-visaged Express Messenger dozed over a book, and where the dandified Baggageman smoked in distasteful seclusion, the amateur Conductor bent doubtfully over this bewildering array of detailed information. But the longer he read the less he remembered, so, taking out the train checks which he wanted, he slammed the box shut, with impatience, and made towards the coaches. 
               "Bully chance for a 'knock-down' on this run," said the dandy, blowing circles of smoke in the air. 
               "What!" exclaimed Livingston, who was far from spoiling for a fight; "knock-down did you say?" 
               "Certainly," returned the Count, amazed at his superior's innocence and ignorance, "knock-down, you know; no tickets at half the offices; high old chance, and all that." 
               "O, you probably mean that trouble is likely to result from an effort to collect the extra ten cents from passengers unprovided with tickets," said the young Conductor, who supposed he comprehended the other's remark. "There need be no difficulty on that account, for special orders have been issued from Cargo to make the same reductions, in all such cases, as are made by Ticket Agents. If it comes to a knock-down, however, I think I shall be equal to the duty, and if not, I suppose I may call upon you for assistance." He spoke this last with some dignity, and was more than a little surprised that both Baggageman and Expressman burst out into uncontrollable fits of laughter. "Do you think I fear getting knocked down myself, gentlemen?" he asked sternly But, instead of becoming more serious, the two boys only laughed louder than before, and seemed in danger of losing their balance in the operation and falling on their noses. "You will have to explain the point of your joke if you expect me to enjoy it with you, and provided it has a point. If there is nothing to provoke resistance, and resistance is not offered, I confess myself unable to see how a knock-down is to be accomplished; unless, indeed, it is the purpose of you, gentlemen, to provoke me to an illustration of my ability in the pugilistic line." And the amateur looked fully equal to the job as he spoke. 
               "Nothing of the kind, my dear sir," the Messenger hastened to explain, having been the first to recover his equilibrium. "The assumed peculations of railroad Conductors are generally called 'knock-downs,' in the parlance of the line; and Smith only meant that, as cash operations would be frequent on this run, from the number of stations as yet unprovided with tickets, a better opportunity than usual would be offered for the business." 
               "I am obliged to you," Livingston returned rather stiffly, but smiling in spite of himself. "This is quite new to me, I assure you; still, as I have no disposition to take advantage of the remarkable chance which presents itself, we will say no more about it. You are correct, however, in speaking of the popular accusation as an 'assumption.' It is a positive libel, sir,-a libel and a slander." Saying which the Conductor advanced to his duties-and to his fate.
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               PECULIAR PASSENGERS 
               Among the long lines of faces that were raised to meet Livingston's, an instant, as he entered the first crowded coach, and cried, "Tickets!" there was one which the young man saw not at the first, but which was destined, very soon, to find permanent lodgment under the left side of his waistcoat. It was the face of a lady, who sat near the rear of the car; she was dressed very plainly in black, and would naturally have been taken for a widow. Her face was most beautiful. In repose it was tinged with a faint touch of sadness, but was generally bright with animation, and her dark, tender eyes met even a stranger's admiring, inquisitive gaze with an open frankness and amiability which was as far from being boldly familiar as from being disdainful or scornful. She knew that no man could behold her with indifference, and she had so long been accustomed to admiration that it had ceased to be a novelty, and was received without a particle of emotion, either pleasurable or otherwise; long familiar with the homage of mankind, it has been suggested, for the woman was past the first freshness of youth, and her charms were not those of a girl. She had one of those singular faces, rarer in life than romance, which give you no record of age. Their unfaded beauty no woman could wear who was old, yet the delicate bloom of life's morning was wanting. None could have guessed how long Rachel Wayland had lived. Some would have thought her about twenty-five, and others, again, might have set her years up to full thirty; and few could have told what it was in her features which helped them to form an opinion. It was patent to all that, in face and form, she was lovely and graceful, and this was enough for the world. It was more than the rude world deserved, for it never forgave her for being beautiful ful, and punished her with scandal for the sin. But her best friends knew not Rachel's age, and very little else about her, for the matter of that, either evil or good, for she was one of the very few wise ones of earth, and had learned the rich worth of a well-mastered tongue. Her complexion was dark, but it showed not a blemish. Her black eyes, large and gentle, were heavily fringed with soft lashes; her nose was as straight and as delicatly cut as if Powers had chisseled it: her lips were as tempting as human lips can be, with the fullness and redness adorning them that belong to a beautiful mouth, (which is better than looking like rose buds, or strawberries, or coral), and the small dimpled chin was exquisite. Her dark hair waved slightly, and was carelessly brushed from the temples, and crowned with a jaunty, black, raven-plumed hat. No veil hid the brilliancy of her face, and a smile, were it never so slight, just lifted her full upper lip, and revealed a row of white little teeth, finely formed. She wore the smallest of kids; jet bracelets and brooch, but otherwise seemed to be dressed in the plainest of garments. 
               And while this fair lady awaited the coming of the Conductor with the utmost of calmness and unconcern, poor Livingston was approaching her gradually, step by step, and passing through various experiences. His study of faces, with a view to remembering them throughout the trip, and saving the trouble of a frequent showing of tickets, was only moderately successful. He could not hope, in a single trial, to bring to his aid that wonderful power of retaining the impression of travelers' countenances which is a Conductor's greatest boast and help, and which only arrives at perfection through long years of practice and patient endeavor. But when the young man's quick eye fell on that fair, human face, in the rows of unsympathizing people before him, he knew, in a flash, that one person, at least, on the train would not be forgotton; and that no art of the business, no patient experience, or long years of practice were needed to hold her sweet picture engraved on his memory forever. He felt that his hour had come. He was a boy, a youth no longer. The impenetrable armor, which thus far through life had sheilded his heart from the glances of women, fell off, as by magic, and Cupid, from some safe retreat just under the raven-plumed hat, launched an arrow, unerring and swift. Yet, with this new sensation thrilling his being to extasy, and opening wide to his poetic fancy a heavenly vision of possible bliss, he was bound to the prosaic task of conducting a train, and forced to conceal his emotion from the curious gaze of a carload of passengers. 
               His first trial was with a drunken man, who had so depleted his pockets for the unnecessary liquid replenishment of his stomach, that neither ticket nor funds were forthcoming at the Conductor's demand. This individual, after being shaken into consciousness, as the dealer shakes a proof-glass of liquor, to exhibit its "bead," declared his opinion that it was "too bod for a poor mon to be so treated," which was a natural conviction for one who had been so liberally treated in another way. But there was no time for parley. It was the old story-the old dodge. The train was approaching Cobshell, and it was altogether likely the man was bound for that point, and trusted to his wit for prolonging discussion until the station was reached. The case called for promptness, and a radical remedy. Livingston took from him a dilapidated carpet-sack, pretty well filled, and, notifying him that he could redeem it at his leisure from the Cobshell Station Agent, on payment of fare that was due, he passed it out to his brakeman, and so into the hands of the Count, leaving the well-shaken proof-glass to foam itself into tranqnility. 
               Ned Livingston's next great annoyance was with a man who was reluctant to pay any passage because he had lost a new hat some way back on the road, and was indignant at the Conductor's refusal to stop the train and let him get it. He even insisted that a brakeman should return from the next station and search for the hat, only abandoning a demand for the train to be run back in his interest, on the assurance that another train was following which it would not be comfortable to encounter. He finally paid, under protest and threats of sueing the Company, and was somewhat consoled by thursting his head ont of the window at Cobshall, where a freight train was met, and calling out to the Engineer on tHe side track to "keep an eye out for his lost straw hat." Which seemed to Livingston a very rational and reasonable request, considering that the Engineer had one eye out already, and might be supposed to have some slightly engrossing professional use for the other. 
               No. 3. Was the worst bore that Livingston encountered. He was of that numerous class whom Jerkman called "Chinners," and who are known to the world as good talkers. A rough, ragged, battered, and dirty little specimen of humanity, it was a wonder how he created so many words in so small a manufactory. He persisted in claiming a ride on the strength of a two year old pass over some other road, which was never intended for use on the Lamoyelle line, and had long since lost its virtue as a means for free travel anywhere. Refusal and explanation seemed equal vain; the diminutive swindler continued his talk in a torrent, quite satisfied to have his tongue in motion, and not caring, apparently, what he said, or whether anybody listened or not. His sharp voice, elevated to overcome the noise of the train, became an annoyance to others, than the patience-tried Conductor. One pious passenger gave vent to his feelings by the mild exclamation, "darn him!" Which domestic restorative might have been applied without harm as the clothes of the "Chinner" were decidedly holy. Another much irritated passenger in the vicinity undertook to call out, "transport him," but by a curious mistake, in his vexation, he made it "transplant him." 
               An equally appropriate suggestion, thought Livingston, laughing, since the seedy condition of the individual adapted him for planting, and there was a possible chance that after burial he might come up a little improved. The young Conductor's patience was departing. He felt very much like knocking the end of this tedious bore's nose off; but observing that his organ of smell was exceedingly small, and had no end to speak of, wisely forebore. He contented himself with ordering the valuable nuisance to vacate his seat, on arriving at Cobshell, and passed on with a sad sense of spiritual weariness that was strange to him. The other would have argued indefinitely, no doubt, but being only a mortal, after all, he was just here obliged to pause briefly and take breath, of which he certainly stood very much in need. 
               The next troublesome stumbling block in Livingston's path was a woman-a large, desperate, lachrymose old hag, who began sniffling so long before the necessity arrived that her reservoir of tears was well high exhausted in advance. She weighed about three hundred pounds and occupied necessarily, a whole double seat; but being the widow of Terrence O'Cadigan who had helped to lay "track wid a contractor," in the flesh, and whose still living brother was one of Dan Harrigan's hands "forninst on the bridge sure," this ponderous relative of railroad men, dead and alive, declined to pay even one fare on the strength of her connections. Relentless at last, through successive vexations, the Conductor informed the huge stumbling block that he was powerless to act in such cases as his sympathy might suggest, and his duty would force him to assist her alighting at Cobshell. Had it been possible he would have telegraphed to the Agent at this interesting way station to hold himself in readiness for a rapidly approaching colony of impecunious strangers. The ponderous passenger looked crushed by Livingston's pitiless decree. She waved her old, tumbled head sideways, like a caged polar bear in the tropics, and went through a sterotyped process of rolling up her eyes, flapping her huge hands at intervals, like fins on an expiridg fish, dabbing her nose with a very dirty handkerchief, and, in short, made various characteristic demonstration peculiar to persons of her class who are deeply affected and about to be completely overcome. All this for effect, be it known, for this great queen of grease lived at Cobshell, and our nervous friend, Ned, was not by any means the first who had been duped by her histronic abilities. She was a magnified Ristori and acted with a profitable effect. Rachel Wyland had a pass. It was fortunate for Livingston for it furnished him her name, which he otherwise might have found it quite difficult to discover. 
               His hand trembled with emotion as it touched her gloved fingers, in receiving and returning the card, and more than ever he felt that he was destined to fall in love with the strange, lonely beauty, whose marvelous loveliness had happened to lighten one of the most trying hours of his life. Ned Livingston entered the second coach of his train with feelings so miraculously changed, since his debut in the first, that years might have wrought the revolution. 
               His next irritating hindrance presented itself in the shape of a questioner. He was the most inquisitive man in the world. He was very old and bald, and as his difficulty of understanding rendered it necessary to beat ideas into his head, it naturally occured to a speculative beholder that the hair had been all worn away from his venerable crown by the violent process of introducing ideas. If this thought had not made Livingston smile, in spite of his worry, a look at the old man's queer face would have had that effect. It was shiny and beardless and round. With a set look of inquiry on every bland feature, there was blended an expression of infantil harmlessness. Not the face of a man who would set rivers on fire or extinguish a conflagration with kerosene oil. Though unmistakably one who would endeavor to learn every item of his neighbors affairs, his appearance excited no fear that, having gratified his couriosity, he would meddle alarmingly therewith. But the comical point about the face of this hindrance-if a countenance as round as the moon may be credited with a point-was a perpetual, monotonous extravigant grin, which looked as if the old fellow had began to laugh violently at some period of his life and forgotten how to stop. He did not refuse to pay his fare, for a wonder, but accompanied the operation with such a world of interrogation that Livingston, possesing but one single organ of speech, found it not only difficult, but truly impossible, to answer as fast as required. The Conductor would not have been sorry if a refusal to "show cause" had enabled him to add this curiosity, in the way of a passenger, to the pleasant litile party who were about to be set down at Cobshell. But no occasion for this extra attention appeared. Ned Livingston never forgot that odd face while he lived. Years afterwards, in his travels abroad, he beheld one much like it, which had been carved out of wood, by a Heidleburg student, and placed over the door of a beer shop near Baden to label the site of a university spree. It was supposed to represent the happy expression of the host when reaping his hearvest of Kreutzers from the students, and it gave him ever afterwards the name of "the laughing landlord." In the midst of a fresh gush of questions, from this persevering hindrance, Si Parrington's engine gave notice of nearing the station by a long piercing whistle, and Ned was obliged to hurry on through his train lest possibly some legitimate traveler should want to get off, with his group of delinquents, at Cobshell. 
               There were none, however, and with all the grave gallantry of a courtier, who waits on the pleasure of an Empress, he hastened to help the widow O'Cadigan alight. 
               When that formidable stumbling block rolled herself out on to the platform of the car, armed with a ham, an umbrella, and a jug, she was bathed in sweet smiles and perspiration. 
               "Sure an' I'm obliged to yez for a fine bumpin' ride Misther Conductor," she exclaimed with an accent of triumph to Livingston, as he aided the bulky old female to descend. "Arrah, God rest ye, is it meself that has all the attentions of a fine lady? An' its woorth the hard joorney to Salell on yer domd old rough road to be traited so ginteel by the likes o' yez. Sure, if ye'll call at me cothage beyont--." 
               "Do you mean to say that you live here, Madam?" interrupted the Conductor with the perfume of a very large mouse saluting his nostrils. 
               "Indade, its the thruth," returned the huge hag, as she rolled away, laughing; "an' may the divil strike a hump on me if its not domd hard work to live, onyhow! But whin yez gits time, just coome to me 'cothage be the say,' young gintleman, an' I'll be afther returnin' yer civilities in a ginerous way." 
               The laugh was on Livingston, unquestionably, and, as he waved his hand mechanically for Si to move on, the Station Agent pointed out to him Mrs. O'Cadigan's "cothage," which was only a shanty of sods and rough logs. 
               From this point Ned Livingston's annoyances were fewer. He was perhaps more amused than disturbed at discovering a twelve years old boy, concealed under his mother's dress skirt, (the soles of a pair of coarse brogans betraying him as he knelt,) for the protecting hen paid the youth's fare, after violently resisting the lifting of her dress as an actionable outrage, and strenuously denying the fact of any concealment. The abortive attempts of some roughs to pass counterfeit money on the Conductor, and back one another up in swearing to its genuineness, also contributed more to his amusement than irritation, for he was fortunately thoroughly posted in the notes of the period, and deception was simply impossible. But for a brief space his trials were ended. 
               At Bloom Station, the Count, following an established custom, strutted through the coaches with considerate condescension to allow the ladies an opportunity to admire his fine clothes. Of course his evil eye fell on fair Rachel Wyland, and he was struck by her beauty, as all were who met the soft glance of her eye. He declared to Livingston, a little while after, in the baggage car, that he "never saw a finer looking face than that of the lady in black, at the rear of the first coach, right side;" adding, after an original manner of expressing admiration for females, "By Jove, she can just smash my watch!" 
               The force of the remark was somewhat lessened, in this case, however, by the notorious fact that the Count owned no watch, and was wearing a very cheap borrowed one, which it could scarcely gratify a female to smash under any possible circumstances. However, Livingston said nothing. 
               At Duck Creek Station, Rachel Wyland got off for a visit to some country acquaintances, and her place was soon occupied by a lady who presented the most striking contrast imaginable to the beauty preceding her. It chanced as Ned Livingston gallantly aided the one to alight, with such strange sensations disturbing his heart and his brain as never had moved him before, that the other, just coming aboard, claimed his help to ascend. But the soft-spoken "thank you" from Rachel was caught by his quick, eager ear, and he took off his hat by an irrepressible impulse as she gracefully bowed and disappeared. Disappeared? Not so; so long as he lived in the wide world thereafter, her face and her form were ever before him. Not always imparting the rapture of that early hour, oh no, but, through joy and through sorrow, never quite absent again-never again. 
               The incoming passenger, of the sex we call gentle, was scarcely observed by Ned Livingston, absorbed as he was by the newly awakened emotions of the time. But the train moved along, and he met her anon face to face. 
               Paradoxical as it may sound, and "Hibernic" as may be the expression, the prominent feature about this lady's countenance was the want of a feature. One eye was missing. Aside from this blemish, however, and an exaggerated expression of prudery, which rested with comical effect on her broad, homely visage, there was nothing very striking in the female's appearance. She wore a yellow silk bonnet all covered with little green writhing and quivering things, repulsively resembling worms. It was as if she had been sitting under a tree, and these gynmastic insects had fastened themselves to her head, without her permission or knowledge; and, misled by the idea, Ned Livingston impulse was to brush them off hastily. But something forbidding in the lady's one optic restrained him. She was dappled with freckles, had very bad-fitting false teeth, thin, reddish hair, a portion of which was artificial, a swelled, lumpy nose, and constantly betrayed the unconscious awkwardness of a prudish old maid, unacustomed to society, uncultured, and countryfied. She wore a bright gown of pink calico, a red and black shawl, and a large pair of blue cotton gloves. The only noticeable ornament displayed was a common-sized dog-collar, clasped on her wrist. 
               "My name is Felicity Flint," she said boldly, as Livingston extended his hand for her ticket or fare. 
               "Your name is of no consequence, Madam--," the Conductor began; but the lady interrupted him. Her one eye rolled savagely, and something like an immense sugar-coated pill, which was supplying the place of the other, joined its indignant companion, as well as it could, in an expression of displeasure, while she said: 
               "Sir, I'd like you to know that my name is of some consequence. My folks is respectable-er nor any nasty, low railroad folks as ever--." 
               "You misunderstand me Madam," the Conductor hastened to explain; "I should say that we do not require to know passengers, names. Your fare or your ticket is sufficient." 
               Whatever the character and reputation of her name, it was evident to Livingston that her ancestors had been great people, as she was a woman of immense proportions. 
               "Very well," she said, molified by the Conductor's politeness; "but I don't want ye to mad me." She presented her ticket with the air of one very ill-treated, and there was about her, besides that peculiar old-maidish expression of one who was momentarily expecting to be shocked by some improper action or word. Her mouth was pursed up into a pucker, as if she were just about to say "prunes," and there was such an appearance of suppressed breath in her expanded face and form, that Livingston thought it would be a positive kindness on his part to say or do something indelicate, which should furnish her an excuse for a good hearty scream. An instinct of refinement withheld an indulgence of the inclination. 
               "You ain't the feller which belongs to this train generally, be ye?" enquired Miss Felicity presently. 
               "I am not," the feller replied good naturedly; "the regular Conductor is ill, and I am temporarily filling his place." 
               "Law me!" exclaimed the female, giving her head a fierce shake, which set all the green worms to wriggling with wonderful briskness. "That other young man is a gay one." 
               "Yes, a handsome young gentleman," assented Lamble's good friend, "and as amiable as he is prepossessing." 
               "Of course," remarked Miss Flint, a little in the dark as to Livingston's full meaning-"very dispossessing, I should presume," (she liked to say "presume," the word puckered her lips in such a desirable way,) "and he always reminds me of my brother which is diseased." 
               "Diseased!" exclaimed Livingston, "may I enquire the nature of his indisposition-what ails him?" 
                
               "Dead, sir," she cried, impatiently; "dead, I say, or diseased-can't you understand English?" 
               "I beg your pardon," said Livingston, apologetically; "I am not familiar with your manner of pronouncing the word deceased." Then, for the sake of saying something to conceal his amusement, he pretended to be interested in the late. Mr. Flint, and asked, seriously: "Was your brother in railway service, Madam?" 
               "Not a bit," she declared, bristling up. "My brother was a respectable farmer lad, Sir, and earned his bread by the swea-the-the perspiration of his eyebrow, Sir." 
               The speech was a little mixed, but Livingston readily comprehended Miss Felicity's meaning, and sincerely admired her skilful avoidance of an unpleasant word. Locating the source of her brother's perspiration at the eyebrow was probably the result of embarrassment, and our Conductor would not have found fault with any limitation of porous action in this case, had it been intended. But the reflection on the respectability of railroad men, and the implication that the lightness of their labor did not result in an expenditure of perspiration for daily sustenance, were points of the lady's declaration which could not be calmly received. 
               "In the high estimate you place on your brother's late employment," said the railroader, who had something of little Frank Weston's enthusiastic respect for his fellows, "I think you do injustice to a large number of estimable people in our business. I hope the reflection is unintentional. It is possible, however, that you have reasons for speaking disparagingly of the railroad. If so, and you will tell me what they are, I shall be happy to remove your unfavorable impressions as far as possible." 
               "It's no use," she cried. "Them which I see around Duck Creek is a mighty slim set. They hain't no more regards to the feelinks of ladies than my old shoe. They is that rude that one of'em asked me 'how come my eye out,' and another called me 'Miss Mathusalem,' and another wanted to know 'how long I'd been married,' and 'when the baby was weaned,' and if I was a 'goin' out for a wet nurse,' and all sich. And all for my just givin' 'em tracts on 'The Devil's Footprints.' 'Young men,' says I, 'you air not fur from hell.' 'I spose not,' says one o' the lot, 'be you the keeper?' 
               'Young men,' says I, 'you're a triflin' on the edge of the burnin' abyss.' 'Let 'er burn,' says he. 'Young men,' says I, 'the serpent of sin will wind himself tight round yer heart.' 'Let 'er squirm, old woman,' says he, 'and you dry up.' Now them's railroadists for ye-them is?" 
               "Rough members of our numerous family, I must confess," remarked Livingston, indulging a little his long suppressed laughter. "But my dear woman--." 
               His remonstrance was cut short. That settled it. The objectionable word was spoken at last. A scream startled all in the coach. Up went the hands in sky-blue gloves; up rolled the one angry eye and the other thing, and the industrious green worms on Felicity's hat became livelier than ever before. And the innocent Conductor could not fathom the mystery. 
               "That's it," said Miss Flint, recovering her speech in good time. "You're one of 'em, sure enough. Never was I so insulted, sir. If I had really became dear to you, in such a short space of time, you would say it softly in some quiet corner, and not decompose me before all these undiscrepant crowd. O, sir, if your intentions only was honorable--." 
               She was probably going to suggest that they "might be happy yet;" but just here the whistle called Livingston away. 
               Miss Felicity Flint subsided, for a time, and flattened her nose against the window to hide any blushes that might have arisen. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE RED LANTERN-A CHAPTER FOR BRAKEMEN. 
               The train sped rapidly onward, and the day slipped swiftly away. At Kioodle Station, Road Master Stedboy came aboard, and made himself generally disagreeable, as was his custom. He was one of the few "black sheep" on the Lamoyelle Railway, and nobody liked him. Being an excessively ignorant man, who knew nothing beyond how to level up ties, and that only indifferently, he of course played the tyrant over such unfortunate section men and road-repairers as fate, or misfortune, consigned to his department. He had a sharp, insinuating face, and an attenuated figure, and, with an alarming anatomical display of joints, he was as unprepossessing in appearance as he was in manner. Jerkman had long since named him "Grand Pasha" for his ridiculous assumptions of authority, and his imperial reign over the army of unhappy laborers beneath him had given him the idea of a personal superiority to all other created beings, which was repulsive in the extreme to any who approached him. He meddled with every one's affairs, and was regarded as the chief spy and informer of the line. His interference with Livingston's management of the train irritated our young Conductor more than anything which had yet transpired; and the sarcasms and sneers of the angular Stedboy would have been wounding to a man much less sensitive. Under the influence of this final nuisance, whose appearance was believed by the boys to be a signal for disaster, Livingston became grum and unhappy. Not on account of the superstition which promised misfortune, but because the Road Master's ungentlemanly behavior had crowned a high pile of vexations, and the Conductor's amiability was giving out. Still he struggled manfully against any exhibition of annoyance. 
                
               By keeping resolutely away from the vicinity of Felicity Flint, whom he was tempted to "interview" on the subject of Duck Creek society, in the hope of learning something of fair Rachel Wyland, and the friends and acquaintances she had stopped off to visit; and by avoiding all contact with Grand Pasha Stedboy, who finally fixed himself comfortably at the rear of the train, to watch for elevations or depressions of the track, and to roar at his awe-stricken dependents, and gesticulate wildly and threateningly, as the train thundered by them, like a clown in a pantomime-by holding aloof from these two sources of unpleasant emotion, Ned Livingston was gradually regaining composure. They were rapidly descending the long and steep grade which led to the swamp of Still Hollow. The throttle of the engine was shut, and the brake on the tender was set very slightly. The Brakemen of the train were at their posts, all ready to resist any increased momentum. The passengers were reading, or dozing, or chatting. The Conductor was looking at his watch. The Grand Pascha was swearing at the roughness of the road, and the inefficiency of his men. The Count was brushing chalk from the seat of his exquisite pants, in the baggage car. The Expressman, in his lonely compartment, was fumbling through his safe for a package to be left at Still Hollow. The Fireman was idling on his seat, having opened his furnace and ceased throwing chunks. The Engineer gracefully stood on his foot-board, his eye on the rails, his left hand still grasping the lately closed throttle, and his right lightly resting on the polished reversing bar. Then, all in an instant, there was a horrible jar, a wild, rough jumping of the cars up and down and against one another, a chorus of shrieks, a crash, and then a cessation of motion and momentary silence. 
               When the first thrilling interval of terror and uncertainty was past, Livingston found himself jammed into a corner of the car, with a water-cooler cover on his head in place of a hat, and his nether limbs tangled in the net-work of several hoop-skirts. The car was on its side, and many appeared to be hurt, for the cries that arose were distressing to hear; but, beyond some slight bruises and scratches, our Conductor escaped without harm. As soon as he could remove his helmet, and release himself from the female entanglements about him, which was accomplished with gentleness and delicacy, he crawled to the door near at hand, and, opening it with difficulty, assisted the ladies who were nearest him out on to the damp, marshy ground. Others called to him for help, but a more imperative duty, involving the safety of all, rested now on his hands, and he was obliged for a time to be deaf to individual appeals. A train which was following a few miles behind, and which soon would be dashing along down that grade with tremendous velocity, must be instantly flagged, and held back. This pressing necessity was the first thought which flashed into Livingston's mind when his half-scattered senses became once more collected. Lustily he shouted for Chet Langham, his reliable head-brakeman, whom Jerkman had commended, and on whom Charley had advised him to rely, instead of on the Count, in any arising emergency. Dense clouds of steam hid the engine and baggage car from view, but from its midst Chet Langham appeared in a moment, hatless and coatless, but uninjured. 
               "Are you entirely unhurt?" enquired the Conductor. 
               "Nary a damage," said Chet. 
               "That is good," said the young Conductor, heartily, for he felt terribly alone in this trying state of affairs, and his faith was in Langham "What is the condition of things at the front?" 
               "Bad enough, sir," replied the brakeman; "the engine and tender are both in the ditch, and the baggage car stands on its end. The Count and the expressman have escaped pretty well, but Si's right arm is some bruised, and his fireman is knocked senseless, if not dead." 
               "Get a red flag, as quickly as possible," ordered the Conductor; "the freight must be stopped" "I have already attempted it, sir," said Chet; "but the only ones aboard are in the Engineer's tender box, and the tender itself lies wrong side up on the top of that." 
               "What is to be done?" 
               "Do the next best thing, I suppose," answered Chet. "So long as it's daylight, most any demonstration will stop 'em; anything to wave or swing will answer. Hold, I have it. I'll take one of my red lanterns, that we use on the rear of the train when we're belated." In a few seconds more he appeared with the lantern in his hand, and, still without any covering for his back or his head, started off, like a flash, up the track. 
               "A prompt, able boy," Livingston uttered to himself, as Chet Langham sped along up the grade on his critical mission. "I might have been at a loss what to do in such a crisis. Lamble was right, he is 'trusty' and 'faithful' beyond question." Yes, the poor, humble brakeman was all this-and much more. He was a hero as worthy of a laurel coronation as the noblest that ever lived on the earth and suffered and dared for man's sake. He deserves to rank equal with the brakeman, of whom we are told by Grace Greenwood, "who, on the long battle-field of one of our railways lay bleeding and dying from such cruel wounds as neither balls, bayonets, or sabers can inflict. When, after the first horrible confusion was over, they went to him and asked if they could do anything for him, he said, 'No-no, I'm done for; go and help the others who can live.' When they insisted on doing something for him, he said, 'Well, turn me over on my side, that I may die a little easier.' And when it was done he whispered, 'That will do-thank you. Now, go and help the others.' They went their way-and he went his." 
               But the brave-hearted Chet had never been tested, as yet, and even Lamble knew not what was in the good boy whom he recommended so favorably to Livingston. 
               Backward, as if on the wings of the wind, he hastened. He knew how much depended on a few moments' time. The ponderous freight-train must be stopped before it commenced the descent of the Still Hollow grade, else, once fairly started thereon, it might be impossible to check it, entirely, before reaching the passenger wreck. Nearly breathless, but eager and excited, and solemnly impressed with the momentous importance of his mission, the noble young man hurried on. His hair wildly waved in the wind and his cheeks burned like fire. He could hear the dread echoes of the heavy train coming long before he caught sight of the engine, and the sound filled his breast with a horrible fear. What if he should be unable to stop it in time! It would be impossible to clear the wrecked coaches of all their bruised occupants before the huge train of heavy freight would be upon them. The thought was too fearful. But it gave speed to his fast-flying limbs, and by stubborn exertion he gained the upper end of the grade just in time to prepare for the signals. He placed himself in the center of the track, and with the fiercest of gestures began waving his red lantern in the air. On came the locomotive, smoking, steaming, thundering; there was no whistle for brakes, and no slacking of speed, to indicate that his motions were seen. On came the locomotive, smoking, steaming, thundering. Now it was near enough for him to see its face plainly. O, horror of horrors! The hot blood turned to ice in Chet. Langham's full veins. The engine had been "slobbering," as they called it on the line, that is, pumping over or frothing, and the filth of the operation, blowing back against the front of the cab, had crusted its windows until they were no longer transparent. The occupant of the foot-board could not see ahead without leaning out at the side, and, just now, he was otherwise occupied. Chet. quickly comprehended the gray, spattered condition of the machine and all that it involved. On came the locomotive, smoking, steaming, thundering. The brakeman could not hope to make himself heard, and as for the inmatcs of the cab being able to see and be warned by his signals-that was out of the question. It was too late to hope for any chance look-out by Engineer or Fireman-too late-too late! Thoughts flashed through his brain, like electric discharges, and scorched as they passed. 
               A heavy boulder lay close to the track. It was big enough to dash that fast-coming engine into the ditch and throw the long train into ruin and confusion. Should he roll that stone over the rail and by destroying the few save the many, who lay all unconscious in the path of destruction below? It was too fearful an alternative. Old "Flop" was on the engine-dear old Duke Angel, whom Langham had known and liked many a year; whose songs of the sea he had so loved to hear, and whose sweet-toned violin he had followed through merriest dances. No, that must not be. If God claims a sacrifice of life, thought the heroic young man, I am not to do murder in saving the doomed. On came the locomotive, smoking, steaming, thundering. There was little chance now for reflection or preparation. Had his wild, hopeful run been in vain, then? Were the struggle, the exhaustion, the desperate endeavor, all wasted and uneless? Must he, indeed, step aside and let that train thunder on to its own and the other's destruction? No, there was one chance yet-one poor, miserable, improbable chance. Chet. Langham determined on the instant to try it. On came the locomotive, smoking, steaming, thundering. 
               With a sudden forced coolness, and a presence of mind a general or a sea captain would have been immortalized for exercising in such a dread moment, the Brakeman leaped to a position at the side of the road, as near to the rails as he could stand without danger, and, with lantern in hand, braced himself for one last fearless effort. On came the locomotive, smoking, steaming, thundering. As it passed just abreast of his standing place, Chet hurled his glass lantern with well directed aim straight at the glass of the side cab window. He could hear no crash, for the roar of a hundred iron wheels filled his ears; but he felt sure that the stroke had been true. Breathless and motionless he waited for a whistle. It did not sound. Fired to a pitch of determination and daring which a calm looker-on would have blamed as rank madness, he caught at the step-bar of the rear rushing car, as it passed, with the cry on his white lips which God only heard: "I must save them! I must save them!" 
               The swift forward motion of the car threw Langham's light body out straight in the air; but his clutch was of iron. He drew himself up to the top of the car, and, with a glad thrill of triumph, set out to run forward and give notice of the danger lying now close ahead. The attempt was a failure. A film filled his eyes, and, raising his hands to dash away the thick could, he saw that his fingers were dripping with blood. Then faintness came over him suddenly, and he fell, with his face to the roof of the car, insensible, alone, unnoticed. 
               And his errand was then unaccomplished? Thank God, not so. Duke Angel and his fireman felt the fierce crash of the lantern, if they seemed not to hear it. For a moment, its purport could not be determined; but, as the fragments of glass which had struck them, and which they immediately picked up, were observed to be red, and they knew that red signals, by day or by night, told of danger, the meaning of this demonstration became quickly apparent. Steam was shut off on the instant, and brakes whistled down. But the signal Langham listened for sounded after he fell. 
               The Conductor of the freight train hurried forward to discover the trouble, and now, looking out at the sides of the engine, both "Flop" and his man could see in the distance the wreck of the passenger train. So they crawled along, easily, down to the scene of the disaster, with the noble youth lying unconscious where he fell, the blood flowing fast from his fingers, and his temples uncrowned, pressed into the dust. There are heroes of peace, no less than of war. 
               Will the petulant traveler, who frets over a Brakeman's apparent indifference to his trifling but troublesome wants, be kind enough to remember Chet Langham? Will the worn, weary mother, who hails him on every occasion of his appearance, and frowns at his delay in furnishing water for her peevish, ever-thirsting children, have patience with the Brakeman hereafter? Will the always complaining old lady, who clutches him by the coat-tail, as he hastens through the car, demanding the turning over of a seat, the closing of a window, or the building of more fire; and who scolds at the want of immediate attention, remember henceforth that there are other than menial occupations belonging to the dusty-faced, hard-handed, quick-stepping man who rushes impetuously to work more important? 
               Will the crusty old gentleman who swears at the car door left open in the prompt Brakeman's quick exit to answer his summons to duty, bear in mind that this busiest man or me train holds a post of importance ance, which is second to none in the service-and which is the post of most danger as well-and that minor affairs must wait till the whistle's shrill call has been answered? Will the restless, uncomfortable tourist, who thrusts himself out on the platforms, in defiance of rules and of warnings, remember our hero and frown a little less fiercely at the well-meaning man at the brakes when he points out the danger of the place and orders a retreat? Will the gentleman traveling alone, who raves at the sacred reservation of a coach for ladies and their attendants, think a little less hardly of the Brakeman in charge, when he recalls of what sort of material a man of the class may chance to be made? Let him question the policy or injustice of the discriminating custom, but curse not the Campany's faithful, uncorruptible servant, who does but carry out the decrees of a higher, responsible power. If all, or any one, of these burthens of injustice and wrong shall be lifted from the shoulders of the men to whose ranks Chet Langham belonged, this chapter will not have been written in vain. And let it here be proclaimed that Chester Langham is not an ideal creation; and that under the rough oyster like-shell of many a Brakeman in America is hidden the pearl of as noble a soul as the casket called man may ever hope to contain. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE SMASH AT STILL HOLLOW. 
               Relieved from apprehensions of danger on account of the freight train approaching in his rear, and assured, by a consultation of the time-table and his miraculously preserved National watch, which no ordinary shock seemed able to derange, that no trouble threatened in the other direction, Ned Livingston's thoughts turned to Heaven, with a sense of deep gratitude for his own preservation, and, with thanks, that Rachel Wyland had escaped this great danger. He next turned his attention to Si. Hastening forward amid the dense smoke and steam, the latter escaping with a terrible din, he found his handsome Engineer dashing water in the face of the insensible Fireman. Si's own face was scarcely less pale than that of his injured companion, and he carried his wounded right arm in the breast of his blouse, and his finely-formed features were pinched as with pain. 
               "Are you much hurt, my dear fellow?" asked Livingston, kindly, for he was fond of young Parrington, perhaps more so than of any on the road, except Lamble. 
               "I hope not seriously," returned the Engineer, smiling in the midst of his suffering; "but the hurt in my elbow is bad. Look to my poor man, Jim, if you've time; I must see after the engine and drown out the fire in her fire-box, if possible." 
               Ned called his second brakeman, Dan. Daley, to aid the Engineer in his work about the disabled, but not wholly overturned, machine, and then directing the Count (who appeared on the scene much reduced in apparel, but undamaged in limb) to see Jim carried carefully over to a farmer's near by, he turned his own efforts once more to the release of some passengers imprisoned in the first and second coaches. He was not long in getting to them, for less than three minutes had elapsed since his own fortunate release. Some few had clambered out, however, by the time of his return to the rear of the wreck, and some of the more active were aiding their less agile companions. The Grand Pascha, Stedboy, having been posted at the wide-open door of the hindermost car, unfor-fortunately escaped without injury. Having no thought for any one but himself, he was already engaged in investigating the cause of the accident, and giving no aid to any except in the way of unnecessary advice which nobody followed. For the undoubted reason of the smash was an uneven track, and the uneven track came of imperfect ballast, and the imperfect ballast of a negligent section-man, who was responsible to the Road-Master-which lofty official was, therefore, indirectly, to blame. Convinced of this fact by a hasty examination of the points of the case, and being too cowardly to meet the fact squarely, and shoulder the consequences, he at once set to work to transfer the responsibility on to others. He announced that the Engineer had been running too fast, that the Conductor didn't understand his business, that the train was ahead of schedule time, and that the Brake-men had neglected their brakes on the grade, etc., etc. Delivered of this weighty opinion, which, certainly, made some of the passengers stare, but neither alarmed nor disturbed any other of his hearers, he took himself off up the track in search of some unfortunate supernumerary to swear at, and to bring down a force for clearing of the wreck. 
               An Englishman who kindly "lent a hand," albeit an awkward one, to the short work of rescue, and who denounced American railways in a manner emphatically Britanic as "'igh hold hinstitutions," was of infinite service to Livingston, as was also the literary-inclined Expressman, as soon as he had seen to a safe bestowal of his numerous treasures marked "Am. Un. Ex." 
               Together they dragged forth bruised, bonnet-less females; intensely infuriated infants, and obese, dilapidated, and sometimes intemperately profane masculines by the score-the latter with hats smashed into concertinas, and in such an unpresentable condition as to clothing, that they were obliged instantly, for decency's sake, to retire behind the wreck, and go through a prolonged process of pinning up rips and rents. The two forward cars were on their sides, and as many of the imprisoned unfortunates were liberated through a window, and as the size of the window did not admit of very easy egress, not having been made with a view to employment as a means of exit, the process of debarkation was not calculated to improve either the temper or the personal appearance of the passengers thus extricated. However, the old hen with her concealed chicken was hauled out in a subdued state of mind, notwithstanding her ruffled plumage; the hatless man, notwithstanding he took his oath he was dead, came forth from the ruins quite reconciled, apparently, to the loss of his head-covering only, since the old head itself had been preserved; the inquisitive little moon-faced man, who in his disheveled condition had come to look like Horace Greeley, positively, emerged without asking a question; and the "roughs" who had tried to pass counterfeit notes on the Conductor, and who had discovered the "roughness" of the Lamoyelle line to be of an uncongenial character, were safely landed on terra firma with much less profanity, as an accompaniment, than might have been expected. 
               One man, whose large nose had been injured to an unbecoming extent, insisted on having the Englishman take hold of its sanguinary extremity to see if it were not broken. John Bull was seriously disinclined for any such surgical proceedings; but, "just to hoblige the bloody hanimal," he reluctantly undertook the job. 
               In its performance, however, he impatiendy tweaked the stranger's facial protuberance so violently that the stranger knocked him down. This demonstration was received in a philosophical spirit by the amiable foreigner, who accepted it as an evidence of American gratitude. He picked himself up deliberately, and continued to assist uncomplainingly in the good work of rescue. Most of the people relieved departed, as fast as convenient, for the shelter of a little hostlery, or rather board cabin, half inn and half dwelling, which stood by the side of a country road not far away. But some few stayed behind to help Living and the needful relief was soon furnished to all. Miss Felicity Flint furnished an exception to the general ease with which passengers, of both sexes, were extricated from the wreck. As has been said, she was sitting when the accident occurred in a seat Rachel Wyland had occupied earlier, near the rear of the first car, and close by a door. This door was now effectually blockaded, the end of the following coach having lodged hard against it; and as the plump tract-distributor protested her inability to reach the other door, which was open, and obstinately refused to be assisted out through a window, until the last "horrid man" was taken out of the car, (which was not magnanimity but respect for the sanctity of her ankles that might be exposed in the undignified exit,) her appearance on terra firma was somewhat delayed. When the last member of the sex she despised had been disposed of, Miss Flint climbed with difficulty to the convenient point of removal, and thrust a wild, curious-looking head through the opening. Livingston would not have known her, except for her voice, so great were the disturbances effected by the breakdown. The various materials employed in her construction, were so generally dissected and misplaced, that it seemed as if she must have been very carelessly put together. Especially were her artificial adornments in confusion. The yellow bonnet with its colony of green worms had entirely disappeared, and, by a disarrangement of other rejuvenating articles, she was transformed into a much more venerable female than the one who had blushed under Livingston's glances a short time before. 
               "Me next, me next, good souls, for infinity's sake," she cried, to the industrious wreckers, "I've received a terrible concession in my-in my-in my-here." She placed her hand on her stomach to indicate the locality by concussion, but no one could see anything except her head. 
               "Where in the devil is it you're hurt?" asked the impatient Expressman, who was waiting the result of her slow preparations to accept relief. 
               "O, in my-here, here, HERE!" she screamed wildly, still indicating an invisible point. 
                
               "Blarst yer heyes," exclaimed Mr. Bull, who also waited Miss Fehcity's pleasure, "can't ye hunderstand, the lady's 'urt in 'er hear." 
               But as there were no indications of damage to either of her ears, and as, if there had been, it was no reason for lingering all day over the last victim of the smash, the antiquated virgin was hoisted unceremoniously out on to the roadside. Here she manifested a disposition to faint, but, receiving no encouragement in the way of sympathy or outstreched arms, that troublesome entertaiment was very wisely postponed. The effects of the complained of concussion were otherwise exhibited very soon. 
               The thankless inconsiderate dame rested her head on the kind-hearted Englishman's shoulder, and vomited in his pocket. When gently induced to transfer her outpouring tribute to the ditch, which was accomplished with the foreigner's assistance, she lost her false teeth in the violence of her demonstrations, and became more than ever the personification of antiquity and decay. Her dress was unfastened for relief to the badly bruised stomach, her shawl had disappeared, the gloves of sky-blue were both tattered and soiled, one shoe had been left behind, her chignon had fallen off, and two little wads of false hair, which were fastened originally over each temple, had slipped down on to the sides of her face and presented the appearance of whiskers. She was truly a comical sight no less than a pitiable one. 
               Let it be confessed for Ned Livingston, that, in spite of his commiseration for the unhappy lady, he could not long contemplate her distracted and fragmentary condition, without turning away to indulge in a smile. 
               The Count re-appearing on the scene with a blanket tied around him like a petticoat to conceal his excessive dilapidation, for his royal apparel was torn beyond any temporary repairing by pins, the Conductor consigned Miss Felicity to that titled gentleman's tender consideration. She recognized him at once, as the person who had checked her baggage for her at the terminus, and, on the strength of such limited previous acquaintance, hailed him joyfully in a toothless voice, as, "good Mr. Checker," and asked him to support her on the opposite side from the Englishman. Thus substantially propped up, she seemed to need no further aid, and Livingston was about to depart when she modestly demanded that he should look for her lost masticaters in the ditch. This was a little too much. He was obliged to decline any such exploring expedition, and politely delegated the task to John Bull, suggesting the probability of the missing articles being found in the side pocket of that gentleman's coat. 
               "O, one thing more, Mr. Conductor man," she cried, in an almost indistinguishable mumble, as Livingston was again about leaving, "have you a knife?" 
               "Certainly Madam," was the prompt reply; "do you meditate suicide?" 
               "No, sir," she returned, hesitatingly. "I'm a Christian woman, sir, and not likely to indulge in permeditation or self-infliction. But there's a feeling of precipitate digestion in the neighborhood of my-my-my heart, and it seems as if a little loosening would re-amputate the delinquency. Will you cut 'em?" 
               What on earth the woman wanted was beyond the limited comprehension of our young amateur Conductor, so far as any construction of this remarkable speech represented her desires; but he was finally made to understand, by explanatory gestures, and the assistance of Mr. Bull and "Mr. Checker," that a feeling of congestion in her stomach required the loosening of her stays. Her own attempts to unlace them had fastened the lace into a knot, and she wanted it cut. With one stroke of his knife, Livingston realized her wishes, the tightly strained cords flying under his touch like fiddle-strings severed. This accomplished, he was both amazed and alarmed at the marvelous size to which Miss Felicity immediately expanded. But he did not linger to muse and ponder over this new phenomenon, for thoughts of poor Si and his troubles turned his steps once again towards the helpless iron-horse and its master. The fire was well quenched in the fire-box, but the faithful Engineer, with a bucket in the hand of his sound arm, was still bringing water from a pond in the vicinity to make sure of the engine's salvation. 
                
               An engine in the ditch is a melancholy sight. There is something pathetically touching in the utter prostration and helplessness of a monster so powerful. It looks awkward and forlorn, as an elephant would look drowned in a puddle, or as a whale would look stranded and dead on the beach. One is conscious of a feeling of sympathy for it, as if it were human and could suffer; as if it had pride and could be humbled; as if it had life and could die. And does it not die? A stranger who knows not one secret of its mysterious being is moved at beholding its distress. How much more of real sorrow must its keeper experience when the mighty iron horse comes to grief? He knows every line of the beast's grant frame, every tone of his shrill joyous shout, every ill that he suffers, every motion of his limbs, every deed he can perform, his speed, his strength, his eccentricities, his capacity for food and drink, his docility, his beauty and his grandeur. The Engineer is familiar with all that the tireless steed is, or is capable of becoming, for he has contributed to its making in the way of care and repair; and, where they have long been companions together, and one has borne the other in safety over thousands and thousands of miles with the speed of a bird, the stronger submissive to a touch from the weaker, and never disappointing, or grieving, or offending-the attachment of man for his great locomotive is no longer a miracle. 
               Ned Livingston was shocked at the change which had come over Si Parrington's bright, handsome face, as he approached with halting and unsteady steps, bearing water towards the engine. His brown, curling hair lay in thick, matted masses on his pale, moist forehead, from which the cap was pushed back. His fine eyes were drooping, his straight nose looked pinched, his full lips and smooth cheeks were quite bloodless, and the contrast between them and the mustache which he wore was something more than very striking, it was startling and alarming. Livingston hastened to meet him and take the bucket from his hand, saying, reproachfully but pleasantly: 
               "This is wrong, my dear Si,-all wrong. You are hurt and should not overtask yourself in this way." 
                
               "There was no other way," he said faintly;" and the engine must be saved." 
               "I sent the second brakeman to your assistance, and have come to you myself as soon as I could. There were other duties on my hands," urged the Conductor. 
               "Yes, yes, I know," breathed the Engineer wearily, his languid eyes drooping, and his brows working nervously; "Dan has done very well, and is even now helping, and I have not needed you, though you are a good fellow, Ned, and I thank--" 
               The sound of his voice ended suddenly, and when Livingston turned from dashing the water into the fire-box of the engine, he saw his friend lying full length on the ground where had stood. Fainting and speechless he lay, by the side of his favorite steed. 
               Half an hour later a surgeon announced that Si Parrington's arm was twice broken and its flesh badly swollen and bruised. Here was another true hero-another unflinching faithful constituent of an unconscious corporation. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               THE RED FLAG AND THE ROAD-SIDE REVELATION. 
               If swearing could have cleared away the wreck at Still Hollow expeditiously, Road Master Stedboy would have had the road promptly relieved of its blockade. But as this most lamentable and foolish of human indulgences was as fruitless of practical results on the lips of a royal official as on those of the lowest irresponsible blasphemer, the Grand Pasha's progress was provokingly deliberate. Meanwhile, much remained to be done. Disregarding the angular Stedboy's suggestions, Livingston sent a man back to Duck Creek, on a hand-car, to fetch a physician, and telegraph Jerkman for another engine and fresh cars. Those in the ditch, it was discovered, even when once more in position on the rails, would need some overhauling in the shops before they could again be of service. Poor Langham who was finally discovered unconscious on the top of the freight car, had to be tenderly removed and carefully nursed back to life. Si Parrington and his Fireman required watchful care and attention, for the former became delirious on waking from his swoon, and the latter was as prostrate and helpless as an infant. There were slightly bruised ladies and children to sympathize with, humor and pacify; and irritated male bipeds, with unmentionables in various stages of dissolution, to be tranquilized, reassured and adroitly concealed from any chance glance on the part of inquisitively inclined female passenger. Then food and shelter must be provided for all, for night was coming on, and Livingston knew, by the admonishings of his own long-fasting stomach, that hunger must be making a general advance. Most of these duties fell to his own unaided hands. Stedboy confined himself to the manufacture of ingeniously constructed oaths; the Count was superintending Miss Felicity's 
                   ation to a semblance of humanity; the heretofore available Englishman was acting as assistant superintendent in the same laborious service-fortifying himself occasionally from the Count's bottle of spiritual comfort, which Clotty had furnished; the second Brakeman had gone to Duck Creek; the Expressman was absent in search of some grub; uninjured and undamaged passengers were mainly looking out for themselves, in a selfish way passengers have at such times, and as both Si and Chet Langham, who might have been the Conductor's chief supporters and advisers, were, unfortunately, both hindrances instead of helps, our sorely-tried friend and amateur was not in an enviable predicament. "This it is to be a Conductor!" he muttered in his despair. Scarcely were the wounded properly disposed, and the helpless and hungry of his crowd of dependants made comfortable and provided with food, before it came time for the stoppage of an up-coming compound freight and passenger train. This task Ned Livingston had assigned to himself, as a matter of necessity, and he resolutely set off for its performance without waiting for a much-needed mouthful of food. When he was all ready to start, again arose the difficulty of a want of a red flag. A poor, unhappy looking boy, named Isaac, a servant of the hostlery, or cabin, already alluded to, promptly offered his red shirt, with a nobility and consideration above his sphere, and the favor was gratefully accepted. The simple fellow retired at once to take it off his back, for he had but one, and when liberally paid for, in spite of the generous remonstrance of Isaac, and roughly converted into a signal on the end of a broomstick, Ned went forth to his duty weary, but cheered and encouraged by one more noble example. He had not proceeded far enough to be out of the sound of Stedboy's industrious tongue, still engaged in a violation of the Third Commandment, when Isaac rode  him on a big-jointed, poorly-fed animal, which he honored with the respectable name of  horse. The pursuit of the Conductor was thus 
                
               
                  ir, won't ye ride Selser," (it was "Excelsior" when more ) "he'll help ye down t' holler grade a bit, an ye does look mighty tired like, and he carries double, he does?" 
               The idea seemed ridiculous, at first, and Ned declined it kindly, and laughed at the thought of mounting that descendant of "Rosinante" and riding off with a red shirt on a broomstick to stop a steam engine. The picture, as his fancy portrayed it, was decidedly Quixotic. But then his unaccustomed limbs were fatigued to a painful degree, no less than his unaccustomed spirit. The back of the steed, which had once been a circus horse, looked strong, in spite of its sharpness; time was getting to be an object; there was no one near to behold the rare spectacle; the nag might be useful for a bearer of dispatches, or otherwise, when the approaching train had been met and held back; and other considerations inclined the much bothered Conductor to accept Isaac's proposition. To determine was to act. He gratified the boy, who was turning "Excelsior" away (with a look of disappointment on his homely brown face) by consenting to climb up behind him and bear aloft the bright-colored banner of their hope, while Isaac continued to guide and manage his angular quadruped. The mounting and forward movement would have been intensely amusing to a spectator, but, fortunately for Livingston, there were none. 
               "Let us make the best time possible," said Ned to his poor little pilot, companion and friend; "if there's any speed in your old animal, now's the time to bring it out." 
               But the amiable horse did not appear to contain speed, or much of anything else, for the matter of that, being exceeding attenuated and vacant-looking. So he jogged along, at his own tiresome gait, unconscious of the very important mission in which he was bearing a heavy part and seemingly just as unconscious of the whacks, thick and fast, which his driver administered without mercy. 
               But slow as was the progress of Livingston and his henchman, the reached, in good season, a point far enough distant from the smashing to insure a safe stopage of the upward-bound train. Without difficulty it was signaled and brought to a stand-still. The Conductor whnt forward to look into the cause of his train's sudden halt, was a faced, good-natured fellow, whom one would know for a railroad man anywhere in America. He was every inch a Conductor, and seemed born for the business. Not remarkably prepossessing, perhaps, to a stranger, but beaming with a degree of intelligence which served him instead of good looks, and perfectly aglow with a healthful enjoyment of life. Another Tapley, it seems, who insisted on being jolly under most trying and discouraging circumstances; for he was a victim to a disease called the ague (or "ager" as the country people say it) and, at certain intervals, enjoyed its shivering delights to a degree that would have astonished a shaking quaker. Conductor Worry, who belied his strange name, was said to be the best fellow in the world, and had a heart stored away, in his frame of such extensive proportions that it was a wonder it did not produce a deformity under the left side of his waistcoat. His first words were: 
               "What's the trouble? where's Lamble?" 
               Ned was at once struck by something familiar in the sound or Worry's voice, but he paused not to speculate on it then. His explanation was clearly and circumstantially given, and when his listener had fully digested the information communicated, they dispatched the still mounted Isaac to the Station of Still Hollow, with orders to detain a wild train which was following the "mixed" one just stopped; and then the two Conductors entering a car, the Engineer drew up, slowly and with caution, to the vicinity of the breakdown. 
               Ned was considerably relieved by the arrival of Tad Worry. The experienced and amiable Conductor was somebody to lean upon, confer with and be advised by. Every time Worry gave utterance to a word, Livingston looked at him curiously, as if trying to remember where he had heard that same voice, or one strongly like it. The effort to recall anything about it was utterly vain, and, what was most singular about the odd fancy, there was no recollection of a face to match Ned's remembrance of Worry's familiar tones. It occurred to him to enquire the gentleman's name once or twice; but even this might not have helped him. Finally, as they were standing by the track at the scene of the disaster, watching old Stedboy's confusing endeavors to manage a gang of half civilized wreckers, Tad said: 
               "I hope I shan't run in later than usual to-night, for I get little enough sleep at the best; and then my wife will be anxious." 
               "You are married, then," remarked Livingston, leading conversation in such a way as to get at the solution of the mystery which puzzled him sorely. "Do you stop at the 'Hardy' in Salell?" 
               "O no," answered Worry, "I get the small amount of sleep that is allowed me at Pickatonic. My train does not require a Conductor over the bottom, as we carry few passengers on the mixed." 
               "Perhaps your wife lives at the Convent then-or, I should say, at Beliful's," suggested Ned, thinking of "Sal Volatile" and "Pat." 
               "No, your supposition is quite wrong," returned Tad, laughing heartily; "perhaps I should not mislead you. The party I call wife is the partner of my bed. 
               "Naturally," spoke Livingston, a trifle bewildered; "yet I recall no Pickatonic ladies outside of the Convent, save old mother Leonardi, or Jack Holland's good woman, and one or two others so aged that I cannot think it possible you are married to any of them." 
               "I did not say I was married," observed Worry with infinite coolness. Livingston looked horrified. 
               "Not married to your wife?" he exclaimed, more bewildered than ever. 
               "No," continued Worry, enjoying his young friend's unfeigned surprise; "and what is more, I have never, to my knowledge, seen the face of the person who honors me by sharing my couch." 
               "How absurd," came from Ned. 
               "Not at all, my young friend," resumed Tad, following out his evidently unsatisfactory explanation. "Moreover, my wife and I have exchanged but few words in our lives, and we would not know each other were we to meet. Still we are a most happy, harmonious family, and I know the party of the second part must be young, from a modesty and gentleness of manner which even darkness cannot wholly conceal. And then the voice is so pleasant in which the few words have been spoken that I really feel attached to the mysterious being. I feel certain of being missed and regretted if I am much late to-night. If not by my wife, at least by my little bottle of extract of--" 
               "Good Heavens! Then you are 'Extract!'" exclaimed Livingston, on whom the whole truth was now dawning fast enough. 
               "I'm what?" cried Tad Worry, bewildered in turn. 
               "Why, you are 'Extract,' you know," Livingston explained, with questionable clearness, "the late arrival-the one who takes bitters-the one who disappears before day." 
               "Yes, yes, something of all this, certainly," assented Tad, who began to scent, keenly, a well-developed mouse. "But who, the devil, are you?" 
               "I-I-I," stammered Ned, amid laughter, as the ludicrousness of the whole thing appeared. "Why, I must be your wife." 
               There was great merriment over this revelation, and a hearty handshaking between the two. The Grand Pasha having promised a clear track in three-quarters of an hour, Worry put his waiting train in charge of a Brakeman and walked over, with Ned, to the cabin where Si. Parrington and Chet Langham had been carried, the elder Conductor advising and posting the latter, completely, as to his necessary course of proceedings, etc., in order to come out of his difficulty triumphant. With a kind word of praise and sympathy for the Engineer and Brakeman, and a smile of encouragement to the less-injured Fireman, they passed on to the small wayside inn, where several distressed-looking passengers had taken refuge. Among them was Miss Felicity Flint. Livingston recognized her by the dog-collar clasped on her arm, and would scarcely have known her but for this remembered token, having no clue to any strawberry mark, and finding her so changed from the prudish, artificial, affected tract-distributor of the morning. She was about to proceed to her toilette, when the two men entered the room. Ladies with children had taken possession of what few private apartments the diminutive hostlery contained, and the old maid was left among a crowd of the sex she despised, to shift for herself as chance might permit. Livingston ordered supper, for he was now thoroughly starved out, and said but little, or, if he spoke at all, did so reluctantly and with hesitation, as if it were dubious and difficult work running an up-train of words on the track, which, by rights, had for some time belonged to the down train of grub. 
               "Now, good gentlemen, I beg of you to go away," Felicity remarked, as she emerged head and shoulders from a soiled scrap of car-carpet, modestly appropriated some time before. "I am about to perform my abolitions, and it's very debarrassing to have men around when one's in a dish-o-billy, as the French say." 
               "That is hardly fair, Miss Flint," remonstrated Livingston, forced into a defense of the majority. "We are all unfortunate alike, and must have some consideration for oneanother. If you desire to re-arrange your dress, do so, by all means, and I can promise that no one will interfere, either by word or look. Gentlemen will even agree to keep their eyes in some other direction during the process, if you desire; but do not inconvenience this lot of tired people by driving them out of a resting-place for a whim." 
               O dear," whined Felicity, "I never could 'prink' worth a fig with folks loafing around and turning one into a reticule. But if you'll all promise on your sacred words and honors not to look, you may stay, seeing its on-christian to break up an assemblage without prayer. Still, I absolutely feel as if I should transpire." 
               There was a small bit of looking-glass tacked against the wall, and before this limited toilette convenience, augmented by a tin wash-basin and a dirty comb, the business of re-adjustment and reconstruction commenced. There is often a great fatality about doing the very thing one firmly determines not to. Let this serve as some slight excuse for Ned Livingston when it is confessed, with regret, that though he covered his face with his hand and made a great show of indifference to Felicity's performances, he was guilty of peeping through his fingers. He watched the scant frowsey hair, which stood out in all directions, being gathered into a queer little lump behind, which was no bigger than an ordinary thumb. He saw the lady whip out of her pocket's mysterious depths a tail of long hair, which, when attached to the small lump aforesaid, and twisted about it presented quite a formidable and fashionable wad. He beheld the complicated adjustment and attachment of the fuzzy little masses of foreign substance which belonged just over each temple, and which had looked so comically like whiskers at the time of the rescue. Thoroughly ashamed of himself, at last, for stealing these secrets of feminine charms, Livingston was about to discontinue his observations, when he suddenly became aware that Extract was also surreptitiously engaged in the dishonorable occupation. He now saw Miss Felicity relieve herself of her pink calico gown, out of the pocket of which, so prolific in conveniences for expedients, she produced a strong cord, the gift of her friend, "Mr. Checker." This she wove in and out of the holes of her corsets with surprising dexterity, like the expeditions lacing of a shoe when the breakfast bell has rung, and presently presented, in the region of her voluminous abdomen and chest, the appearance of a large lattice-work window. But the two rows of corset-holes were still far apart. In spite of her most powerful efforts, seconded by a suspended respiration and various experimental maneuvers for compression, the stubborn brass eyelets declined to advance satisfactorily. At last, selecting a chair in which sat a much-pinned, obese gentleman, who evidently despised Mr. Banting, she fastened an end of the lacing cord to its leg, and threw herself back with such violence, that the seat was jerked from beneath the fat individual unceremoniously, landing him on his back with an uncomfortable suddenness, and causing Miss Flint to sit down with a thump. The general laughter which followed this double catastrophe shook the inn to its foundations. In the midst of it, the ponderous old gentleman rushed out of the rear of the building to get pinned up again, while Extract went off to his train in a condition bordering on hysterics, and Livingston, disgusted and ravenous, went in to supper. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               A TICKET AGENT'S TRIALS AND AN ENGINEER'S SWEETHEART. 
               How the track was finally cleared by the Grand Pasha and his gang; how the new train arrived from Pickatonic in time; how Livingston, feasted and refreshed, resumed his arduous labors with confidence and hope; how Isaac returned and wrote a letter which was slipped into the Conductor's pocket at parting; how the much disturbed baggage was expeditiously transferred; how the surliest passenger was ultimately reconciled to disaster and delay, and how confusion prevailed at the re-embarkation, need not be related in detail. 
               Livingston landed the crowd, without further mischance, at the terminus of Bloom about midnight. Business disposed of, there followed, for the Conductor, an affecting and dramatic scene with pretty Nora Reno, Si Parrington's love and the Station Master's daughter. The girl was half-crazy with anxiety for her handsome young hero, of whose accident she had heard an exaggerated account; but Ned set her first fears at rest, filled her fond heart with pride, and transformed her tears into smiles, by a more truthful report of the Engineer's condition, and a narrative of his faithful devotion to duty in the face of great obstacles. He shared, that night, the Ticket Agent's bed at the station, so as to be on hand early for returning, and, wearied in body and soul, his slumber was deep and unbroken. In the morning he entered, by invitation, the limited area of a station house ticket office, and lingered for a half-hour or so, while his amiable friend went through the peculiar, but daily recurring, annoyances of his important department-a department whose features were novel and entertaing to Ned Livingston, and more full of trials than a stranger to its workings could be made to believe. The ever-changing scene of the 'pasteboard shop" ran something in this way: 
                
               
                  Traveler-"Salell:" planking the price of a ticket. The Ticket Agent jerks out a ticket and jerks in the money almost in an instant without a word, and the traveler leaves his place for the next comer, who perhaps has the same destination, but who occupies much more time in making his wants known, something after this style: 
               "What's the fare to Salell?" 
               "Four dollars." 
               "How long afore you start?" 
               "Ten minutes." 
               "Ah-er-can you change a fifty dollar bill?" 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "Give me change in Guv-ment money (laying out the fifty) and in five dollar bills if you can." 
               (Change is made and the ticket thrown out in almost a second of time.) 
               "Do you get into Salell as early as usual?" 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "What time does the Cargo train leave to-morrow mornin'?" 
               "Seven thirty." 
               By this time the querist has gathered up his bank notes, folded them up, put them smoothly into a pocket book, poked his umbrella into the stomach of a heated individual from the rural districts, who was waiting nervously behind him, and, by the delay, caused the collection of half a dozen applications for tickets. 
               Next comes the countryman's turn: 
               (Breathlessly)-"Ticket for Bloom!" 
               "You're in Bloom now, sir." 
               "Oh! oh-er! Yes; ah! ha! ha! I want to go to Duck Creek"-(no show of money.) 
               "Yes; wall, I'll take one ticket." 
               "Yes, sir; forty-five cents." 
               By this time the gent from the rural district comprehends the pay in advance system adopted at all well-regulated railway stations and, fishing into the profound depths of his pantaloons pocket, withdraws, in a capacious hand, a miscellaneous collection, which, from a hasty glance, appears to be composed of a piece of cavendish tobacco, a lead pencil, a piece of red chalk, a large jack knife, a political medal, a leather shoestring, a couple of buttons, a suspender buckle and some change. From the latter a twenty-five cent piece, two half-dimes, two three-cent pieces and four cents are laboriously extracted and deposited on the counter, from which they are rapidly swept by three or four dexterous passes of the clerk, who turns to serve a lady. 
               "I want a lady's ticket to Kioodle,"-depositing a five dollar note Clerk throws out a "lady's ticket," which bears a striking similarity to and in fact would be called a twin brother to a "gentleman's ticket," and also the change at the same time. Lady cautiously examines a bank note she has received in exchange. "Is this a good bill?" 
               "Certainly, madam; we give none other." 
               Lady retires perfectly satisfied. The next customer is an illustrious exile, whom we have reason to suppose has recently fared sumptuously upon a repast in which onions must have figured conspicuously as a vegetable, and moderate-priced whiskey as the principal beverage. 
               "Shure, what is the price of a ticket now to Peekathonic?" 
               "Deck passage, two dollars and a half." 
               "Wouldn't you take a dollar and sivinty-five? Shure its all the money I've got at all." 
               "No! two dollars and fifty-cents." 
               [Persuasively]-"Shure, wouldn't you take two dollars?" 
               "Not a cent less than two-fifty.-[Emphatically]-Pass out your money or pass on!" 
               Pat, finding blarney and persuasion of no use in this instance, counts out his cash, which the quick eye of the Agent discovers to be a little short of the required amount. 
               "Three cents more." 
               The stray three-cent piece is reluctantly dropped from Patrick's warn palm, and the individual who succeeds anxiously inquires, "what time the five o'clock train leaves," and is seriously informed, "at 60 minutes past four." 
               The next inquires. "Has Mr. Smith bought a ticket for this train?" 
               Can't say, sir; don't know him." 
               Oh, he's a dark-complexioned man, had on a dark duster, and an umbrella under his arm." 
               In consideration of the fact that about fifty "dark complexioned" individuals, with "dark dusters" on, had purchased tickets of the Agent, some having umbrellas under their arms and some not, it is not very extraordinary that he does not recollect which one is Mr. Smith. 
               All the time these negotiations are going on, eager interrogators on the outer circle of the crowd about the office are propounding questions, and a running fire of them and replies fill up every possible pause. 
               "When does the next train start?" 
               "Ten minutes of seven." 
               "Say, you! what do you tax to Mansfield?" 
               "Seventy-five cents." 
               
                  Sailor.-"Purser, give us a card for Sa-lell." Slaps down a gold piece, sweeps tickets and change back all into the crown of his hat, takes a bite of the weed, and rolls off to a car "well forward." 
               "Does this train stop at Lena?" 
               "No! this is an express train." 
               "Which one does?" 
               "Accomodation-leaves at 2 1-2 o'clock." 
               "Ticket'nalf to Baxters." 
               "How old is the half ticket?" 
               "Hey?" 
               "How old is the child you want the half ticket for?" 
               "Tween seven and eight." 
               "Is that the boy?" pointing to a lad of about eleven, who was endeavoring to make himself look as short as possible by crooking his legs and resting his chin on the counter. 
               "Yes, that's him; s'pose you only charge half-price for boys?" 
                
               "Full price for him, sir." 
               "Full price! why he's only a boy; yer hadn't ought to charge full price." 
               "Big enough to occupy a seat, sir; full price if you please." 
               The applicant reluctantly draws out the money, and the boy grows some eight or ten inches in stature in as many seconds. 
               "Ticket for Cargo," says another, throwing down a ten dollar note. The Agent gives a rapid glance at the bank note, followed by a keen, searching one at the applicant, and then replies: "Counterfeit." The dropping of the under jaw, the blank and stupefied amazement of the latter, at this announcement, proves at once that the official's judgment was correct, and that the applicant was unconscious of the character of the note until he tendered it in payment for a ticket. 
               And thus the game went on. But Livingston left before the tiresome comedy was ended, thanking his friend for another lesson in the mysteries of railroad life and its duties. 
               He did not think he should care to become a Ticket Agent, any more than he expected to become so enamored of a Conductor's birth as to wish to continue in it permanently. In reflecting briefly on the trying experiences through which he had recently passed, it would have been impossible for him to appreciate the feelings of "Fat Contributor" Griswold's "Retired Conductor," as powerfully pictured by the worthy disciple of Artemus. It seems Billy Blank had been promoted to the position of Train Dispatcher, and was not entirely happy in his new elevation. Says the Contributor: 
               "Habit was extremely strong with the ex-Conductor. As he sat in the office, he would start every time he heard a bell ring, and yell 'all aboard.' Then he would go about the office at intervals, and try to collect fare from his assistants. We dropped in casually, one afternoon, and Billy wanted to know if we had a 'pass.' He couldn't get accustomed to his new position at all. He pined to be again on the road. One day he begged the boys to put him through a collision, which they did to his entire gratification. They tore his clothes nearly off, blacked both his eyes, broke a kerosene lamp over his head, and piled a red-hot stove on top of him. Billy was in an ecstasy of delight, and declared he hadn't enjoyed himself so much since he had a 'bile.'" 
               "Not any for me," muttered the amateur Conductor, freely acknowledging that such a state of mind might very naturally result from prolonged familiarity with the numerous mischances of railroading in America. 
               Old Put., the reliable, the steady, the "salt of the earth," vide Jerkman, had been sent out by Father Tom to replace poor Parrington, and was now on his engine, before the long platform, awaiting the signal to be off. He seemed never to be happy at rest. Motion was to him what champagne is to the toper. His shining old tea-kettle, "No. 16," was blowing off steam at a terrible rate, as if quite as impatient of delay as its master. But the sound, so deafening and disgreeable to most others, was music in Put's ears. On seeing Livingston advancing, he left his neat cab and, joining a group before the station-house, detached from it a roughly clad, brown-faced, but pleasant-looking young fellow, and brought him forward for an introduction to the Conductor. It was Nathan Pees, Construction Conductor and husband of Sal Volatile, who was going up to surprise his affectionate wife with an unexpected visit. Thin, he looked, and weather-beaten, as if running a mud train were not the most pleasant of pastimes; but he was a frank, friendly, unpretending man, and Ned wondered, as he shook the fellow's hard, honest hand, how such a plain, blunt, and evidently industrious being, had ever been caught by a frivolous creature like Sarah. 
               There was some friendly joking at first, about Pees and Skew, and others of the construction tribe, being married and having to pass most of their lives away from the hair-pulling delights of matrimony. Finally Livingston said to Put: 
               "How is it, old fellow, that you have escaped the halter so long?" 
               "I never had time to get married," said the Engineer, briefly, "it was always too near train time." He looked at his watch significantly. 
               "A most excellent reason," said Livingston, laughing; "and seriously it seems to me a mistaken policy for railroad men-especially the migratory ones, and the exiles-to marry; but most of the boys are already in the canoe that paddles double, or are making ready to embark." 
               "Railroad men are a marrying class generally," said Pees. 
               "It is a mistake," said Put soberly, "and a serious one; but who deserves a home better than the wearied and frequently over-tasked railroader?-if he only had time to enjoy it." 
               "No one, assuredly," answered Livingston. "That is just the point. The life, I contend, is not adapted to connubial bliss." 
               "Suppose you attempt to convince Si Parrington and Joe Glow," suggested old Put with a wink, and the application of a fresh chew of tobacco to his open jaw, ready and expectant. "They are the next on our list to pop off." 
               "True; but I suspect you of some clandestine affection, from the 'method of your madness,'" argued the Conductor, "and believe, on my soul, you'll be following the lead of the others some day. Now be fair, there's a good fellow, and introduce us to your sweetheart." 
               "I'll do so at once," said old Put, with the gravity of one who was serious, and in earnest; "my sweetheart is here, and I will present you with pleasure." He took Livingston's arm, in a friendly and confidential way, and walking with him to the end of the platform, pointed towards the hissing old engine, all dazzling and brilliant in the bright morning sun. 
               "There she is," he cried gaily, and with more than his usual animation-"there she is, Neddy, my 'sweet sixteen.'" You may make low obeisances to her in welcome; she can not be won with a smile and a word, like most women; there's a soul in her, and she is as true as steel. It is singular we say 'true as steel' for a comparison, isn't it Neddy? How should anything manufactured by human hands be truer than flesh and blood? But it is so very often-it is so-it is so." 
               From that moment Livingston firmly believed there was a romance-a sad and sweet history of some heart attachment of the past-locked up in the grim Engineer's faithful breast. But no one ever learned what it was. And Livingston spoke to him no more, either then or thereafter, of matrimony, or sweethearts, or wives. The Conductor and Engineer consulted their watches and compared time. The hour of departure was at hand. Both watches declared it to be near 6:50. 
               Bloom was a town of importance, and passengers were numerous. But at last, amid the most desperate confusion, during which there was an unusual amount of baggage-thumping on the part of the Count; during which there was a great deal of unnecessary talking by inquisitive and communicative travelers, and a great deal of swearing by the irritated Baggage Master, equally unnecessary; during which several ancient females became suddenly concerned about the safety of sundry old bonnet-boxes, more or less damaged; during which somebody said somebody else was a thief, and the assailed somebody declared himself nothing of the sort, but a temperance lecturer; during which an extremely indifferent individual, with liberal and extensive views of travel, demanded to have his trunk checked "to China, Kamskatka or hell," and was consoled with a through mark to Cargo, on learning that the stations he mentioned were not on the road; during which amiable-looking hackmen said very unamiable things about one another, which it hardly seemed possible could be true, (though of course they may have been,) Ned Livingston's train moved forward towards Pickatonic. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               OILING AN ECCENTRIC AND COOLING A HOT BOX. 
               It appears that the ponderous gentleman, whose much injured garments exhausted the pin market of Still Hollow, for temporary repairs, and who was unceremoniously unpinned by Miss Flint's faux pas at the cabin, was a journalist of Cargo. He said little, at the time, of his troubles, but quietly nursed his ill-temper to spit it out professionally in the way of "special correspondence" to the Cargo Tripod. However, returning eventually, unharmed to the bosom of his family, he so far reconsidered his hasty communications as to publish a materially modified editorial on the subject of railway catastrophes generally, which was dispassionate, dignified and able,-a result unquestionably due to the oil of human kindness with which Livingston lubricated the badly wounded feelings of this eccentric son of genius. As the composition of a brain which had been badly shaken up on Livingston's train, no less than as the rational and reasonable view of a sensible man, his criticisms on casualties will bear reproduction just here. Propounding the question, "Can accidents be avoided?" he says: 
               "It is very easy, and all very well, just after a shocking accident on one of our leading railways has happened, for people to find out imaginary causes of the disaster, and, on the principle of 'I told you so,' charge the directors and employes of the road with having been guilty of culpable negligence. And no doubt that many times negligence on the part of engineer or conductor-or to go farther back, carelessness in the construction of the road itself, has been the occasion of much loss of property and terrible destruction of life. But it is not easy to believe that negligence and carelessness have been the cause of one accident in an hundred. So far as we know, on none of the railways are incompetent tent or intemperate men employed. On the contrary, most of the Conductors, Engineers, Brakemen, and other necessary officers and laborers, on most railways in this country, are clear-minded, prudent and active. Many of them, too, are men with families dependent upon them, and with fixed and solid interests in community. There is every reason, then, for the public at large to repose confidence in these railway officers, as there is every inducement for the officers themselves to assiduously and faithfully discharge their responsible duties. And we believe that, when an accident does occur, instead of heaping denunciation on the devoted heads of such officers, they are entitled to and should receive the sympathy of every thoughtful member of community Their lives are constantly imperiled in the service of the public-in fact, their lives are pledges, so long as they continue as railway officers, to the public that they will carefully and properly attend to the duties and discharge the responsibilities which their situation imposes on them. But accidents have happened, do and will happen; is no one to blame? If accidents are avoidable-if any one of the scores of disastrous casualties by railway that have already occurred, could have been avoided-then blame lies somewhere, against either the railways themselves, or against the public. We are satisfied that such accidents might be prevented; we believe, therefore, that there is blame, but we are convinced it rests quite as much with the public as with railway companies. It seldom or never is with railway officers.
                
               "We believe that there are many faults and mistakes in the construction of railways. These arise from the desire of the public, who buy the stock and pay the costs of construction of railways. And, besides, many of the railway lines in this country are started as rivals of other lines already built, or to be built, and are designed to have a direct influence upon towns and cities, for speculative ends. The principal questions, accordingly, that are considered, in the building of new lines, are those of cheapness and expedition. The leading, if not uniform policy of railway directors has been to lay down the greatest length of rail for the least possible outlay of money. It often happens, too,-we do not know nor even suspect that it has been the case with any of the railways in this vicinity, or leading out of this city-but it has often happened that in order to rouse a community to the extent of taking hold of, and putting through enterprises of this nature, interested parties have found it necessary to employ cheap surveyors and obtain cheap reports and estimates as to eligibility of proposed railway routes, and the costs of railway construction. In other words, how to build railways expeditiously and cheaply has been the study and the desideratum of most men engaged in originating and pushing these enterprises-not how to construct them judiciously and to make them safe. We are only stating what is familiar to every person of general observation-and the fact implied is what everybody should cry out against. We do not know how it can be made practicable, but some means should be devised whereby, when a railway is finished-or when a piece of masonry is completed-it may be submitted to an authoritative scientific examination. A new gun, with which it is intended to kill thousands of our fellowmen, is, before it is accepted and put in practice, subjected to many and severe tests; and we see no reason why a railway, constructed for the safe and agreeable transportation of men, women and children, should not have tests, equally minute and severe, applied to it. But this is never done. When, for instance, a culvert is to be made, good weather is selected in which to do the work; if there be any water in the channel to be spanned, it does not exist in a running volume; and it is seldom that calculations are entered upon beyond an estimate of usual floods-certainly extraordinary and almost impossible floods are not provided for. The reason for this has been, that these provisions and precautions have not, at the time the work was progressing, seemed necessary. At nearly all, if not quite all, of the culverts on our American roads, no widening of the embankment, at either end of the masonry, is to be found. We do not write as an Engineer, nor yet a railroad man, but it seems to us that such precautions, designed to strengthen the work, are suggested by the plainest principles applicable to the case; and there is no doubt that such would be the practice if, as already intimated the principle did not obtain of building the longest extent of railway possible with a given and inadequate expenditure of money. 
               "Now it is evident that every precaution should be used-and such precautions as would cost the largest sum are the ones most needed-and then, after the work is completed, and before running has commenced, the scientific examinations, of which we have already spoken, should be had, and the severe tests applied. Perhaps, it looks formidable and even impracticable, at present, to do all this, but nevertheless it is done in some foreign countries-it is done in some parts of our own country-and there is no reason why we should be behind the world in these respects. 
               "And after a railway has been accepted, then increased securities against decay, and other natural causes of weakness in any part of it, should be insisted on. 'Mile men,' who, wherever they are employed on American and English lines, have proven of so much use as to now be regarded as indispensable-should be placed immediately on every line in America." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               A BROKEN COUPLING, AND A CLOSE CONNECTION. 
               The return of Ned Livingston's train to its starting point found old Pickatonic plunged deep in the delights of a sensational perspiration. Its chronic tranquility had for once given place to social excitement of the most thrilling description. Charley Lamble and Sal Volatile had eloped. It was so given out from the Convent. The lips of Sister Link had proclaimed it. The distressed lady Abbess and obese brother Beliful believed it. The people of Pickatonic had accepted it for a fact. Mother Leonardi and Clotty had held up their soiled hands in silent horror at the depravity of the act. The streets were full of gossip. Evil hearts were full of rejoicing. Honest hearts were full of sorrow. But Lamble and Sarah Pees were both missing, and the unwelcome tale sounded sadly like truth. 
               Poor Nathan was crushed by the news which could not be kept from him long. He had been so cheerful, and hopeful, and happy, through the last few hours of his journey, counting each moment that hurried him forward to the arms of his patient, but lonely and sorrowing partner. It was long since he had seen his fair, buxom Sally. The cruel necessities of his distant and confining occupation had kept him many months from her loving embraces. And now, all unexpected but surely not unwelcome, he was rushing, with the swiftness of the wind, to her presence. He re-arranged his toilet as well as he could in the baggage car, (for the Count had some primitive appointments for hair-dressing, etc., in his department) and then climbed over on to the engine to catch the first glimpse of the place where his darling resided. When Put blew his whistle for the terminus, Nathan could scarcely restrain himself, so absorbed was his mind with bright thoughts of the meeting at hand. He wondered if that shrill, prolonged neigh of the dashing iron horse, so deafening in his nearer ears, would fall gently on Sarah's far away; and whether it would tell her the secret of his coming, or have any different tone, to her listening, because he was so close to its source. Indeed, there are few foolish fancies and speculations familiar to uxoriousness, which did not throng thickly through the weak stupid head of Nathan Pees. And now, what a fall to his rose-tinted castles in the air-what a stroke to his love-freighted heart. Brother Beliful struck the hard blow. 
               As Nathan leaped off of the engine and rushed toward the Convent, the Prior came forward to meet him. The cold blooded brother led the half-stupefied, heart-broken husband indoors, away from the gaze all idle and curious spectators, and left him to learn particulars from Link. There was a long stormy interview between the vindictive, exulting, unsympathizing sister and Nathan, and then he went out to the bluff side and laid himself down amid the bushes with a longing to die. So far as human ingenuity could compound, and pour into the wound of another's crushed heart, the sharp stinging poison of malice, and envy, and hatred of mankind, the skeleton nun had created and administered the misery in liberal doses to poor Nat. She even smiled at his writhings and shook her "man protector" after him as he staggered out, helplessly, from her presence-drunk with the sour wine of her malignity. He was not a man of very fine sensibilities; but he could suffer under such affliction as this. Even the brute pines for his mate. 
               If Livingston could have foreseen the poor fellow's long, stormy and prostrating interview with Link, he would have spared him the pang of that meeting. For he knew this hateful hussy well, little as he claimed to know women generally, and he would have stood between her and her victim, unflinching, and saved him from the mill-stones of misery which she added to his burden of woe. Only a rumor of the cruel wrong done, and still doing, had reached Livingston as he passed through Pickatonic to deliver his passengers at Salell; but, when he returned, the details of the affair were all laid before him by Jerkman. The young man was grieved to the heart. He had loved Lamble as a brother-perhaps better than most brothers are loved. He had believed in the young Conductor so fully that the trouble came home to him. Through some of the freshest, brightest, happiest months of his life, he had stood by this friend in a relation so close, so true, so trusting, and so hopeful, that he could not now look on the great act of dishonor just perpetrated without serious discomfiture. It was painful beyond expression to stand over the grave of buried friendship and cry out, "God help me! Has it come to this?" An enemy seldom deceives one, for only an idiot would undervalue the power or natural inclination of an antagonist. Nothing less than a friend can disappoint one thoroughly. There is humiliation in this sorry truth for him who is deceived, but there need be no remorse. Thank God for that. In silence and sorrow he went forth to ponder the matter with calmness alone; and Jerkman opposed not the inclination for solitude, for he knew what a feeling had existed between Livingston and Lamble. But hearing, in his ramble, that old Father Tom was lying ill in his room, Ned quickly retraced his way back to the office and mounted to the bedside of his venerable friend for consolation. The good master's left arm was powerless at last, and the long-dreaded stroke of paralysis had fallen. He smiled a cheerful welcome to the young visitor, whom he liked very much, and whom he often consulted concerning the deserts and occasional short-comings of some his men, as if the mere boy, of scarce twenty, were his equal in experience and years. It is not always the oldest who know the world best. When the greetings were over, "What do you think of it, Neddy?" enquired Father Tom, referring, of course, to the trouble which touched all alike who had cared for Charley Lamble. It was a singular circumstance that no one regretted or felt sorry for the woman. She was not very popular in Pickatonic. Very few knew her, such was her disposition to a certain sort of exclusiveness, and those who did, thought her shallow. Charley Lamble, on the other hand, was universally beloved. It was his downfall that was so generally lamented. For the victim of his folly-the late revolver in eastern "circles"-no one cared a straw. 
                
               "O, Father Tom, I am beat," was Edward's answer to the old Master's question. "I don't know what to think." 
               "You must n't think ill of your friend, you know, Neddy," said the old man, soothingly. 
               "I try not to, Father Tom, truly," Ned Livingston explained; "but is it not strange-is it not wrong?" 
               "It seems to be very wrong, certainly," the Master replied. "Still nothing is proven as yet-only suspected. The real friends of young Lamble should not be the first to believe in his folly and guilt, however dubious appearances may be. You must be one of the few to discredit all seemings and give him the benefit of your confidence and support, until we are absolutely sure he deserves our affection no longer. For one, I don't believe he has eloped with Sarah Pees." 
               The good Father's words, spoken solemnly and slowly, carried conviction at once to his listener's mind, and lifted a weight from his breast. He recalled the odd scene at the Convent just previous to starting for Bloom, and, though much that he remembered was strong enough evidence against Sal. Volatile, there was nothing to indicate guilt on the part of Charley Lamble-not even the sin of unusual regard for Nathan Pees' wife. True, indifference might have been feigned, but the young man was innocent even of any flirtation with the two "merry wives," and it seemed foreign to his nature to seriously fancy such a weak, foolish woman as Sarah-much less to love her, or ruin his fame and abandon his prospects and ambitions in life for her exclusive possession. Against all this argument in Lamble's favor, and this willingness to do him justice, stood the one stubborn fact that he was gone, and she had gone with him. Link had watched her go over the bottom soon after the departure of Charley, and others had seen them together at the depot in Salell, both taking the fast train to Cargo. 
               But where was Mrs. Skew through all this excitement and trouble? Could she throw no light on the sudden elopement! She had locked herself into her room, from the first, and would neither tell what she knew, nor hold speech with a soul. 
                
               Livingston lingered an hour at the bedside of the Master Mechanic, and they reasoned together and weighed all the chances, pro and con, so fully that a flood of new light was let into the younger man's heart, and he wondered, in spite of the evidences against his friend, Lamble, how he had ever been led into doubt for a moment. He blessed Father Tom for the comfort he had given, and cheerfully went forth on a search for poor Nathan, that some of the convictions and hopes that were his might be shared with the unhappy husband. That bruised, helpless mortal he found on his face in the weeds and the bushes, as prostrate and still as if death had relieved his scorched breast with its cold, painless touch. Ned lifted him up, wiped the stains from his weather-beaten face, replaced the lost hat, smoothed down his much-rumpled clothes, and proceeded to pour into his ear such comfort as words could convey. And, spoken as Livingston spoke them, the comfort was more than a little. The world-weary man was lifted out of his desperate despondency, and the great barren waste of his future was presently transformed into a garden of blooming possibilities by the timely irrigation of copious tears. It was a wise work to make them flow freely. Ned Livingston, young as he was, had learned, early in life, that there is no such relief for the man who mourns deeply, in silence and solitude, without weeping, as throwing good words, like huge rocks, into the dark, stagnant pool of his heart, until the water is splashed to his eyes. With tears came relief, then followed tranquility, and the man regained speech. 
               Then the young friend and comforter learned, for the first time, how Link had been torturing poor Nathan, detailing every possible and impossible bit of chance gossip relating to Sarah, exaggerated and twisted into lashes for the husband's self-laceration. All this, with her own wicked coloring for every indiscretion and mistake of the giddy and heedless young woman, she had hurled on his bowed and smitten head, surmounting the climax by describing the scene of that memorable morning when Pat. and Sal Volatile had fought over Lamble in a corridor of the convent. Ned soon took the sting out of this latter barb which had goaded Nathan Pees to the verge of insanity, by a truthful account of the affair, and by characterizing Sarah's participation as imprudent and foolish, but not guilty. It was late when the conference on the bluff-side was ended, and the storm was well spent in the married man's breast. He declined Ned's kind offer of a lunch, such as Mother Leonardi could furnish, but accepted a place for the night in the secretary's couch. He drank a good glass of fine sherry from Father Tom's cask, and was already sleeping, when Livingston left him to find the repose he himself required, on Lamble's unoccupied bed at the convent. 
               Next morning, advised by Father Tom, Jerkman and the Secretary, Nathan Pees took the earliest train bound from Salell to Cargo in pursuit of his runaway wife. He was not free from fearful apprehensions, of course, but the terrible conviction of wrong, the certainty of sin, had somewhat given way to the arguments of his friends, and he started on his sorrowful errand, encouraged beyond what had seemed possible a few hours before. 
               A Conductor named Blaisdell, who had been telegraphed for to run Lamble's train, arrived in time to relieve Livingston from making another trip. He was what is known as an "extra" Conductor, who is generally an individual of unlimited leisure, with nothing to do but indulge in "tall loafing" and wait for emergencies. 
               This gentleman of elegant and almost unlimited leisure brought down with him from Cargo the first reliable news of Sal Volatile. He had met her on the street with a lady friend, the wife of a Quirlington Conductor, but saw nothing of Lamble-the ladies being out on a shopping excursion and unattended by any gentleman. This was a clue, at least, and Nathan determined to follow it faithfully. 
               And now the long, bright summer days were mournful and monotonous in Pickatonic. A deep, heart-felt sympathy for Pees, a feeling of half-indignation towards Lamble and of most sincere sorrow for the serious illness of old Father Tom, took possession of Pickatonic people universally. The Master Mechanic, the Paymaster and the Secretary were alone in their unbroken faith in young Charley, and the only ones willing to wait for the developments of time before yielding to utter condemnation. Jerkman was the last of the trio to abandon his first strong belief in the existence of deliberate and premeditated guilt; but Father Tom converted him, and it was mutually agreed to attempt no defence, in a public and general way, until something more definite was known. 
               Meanwhile there came news of Si Parrington. He was better but still very prostrate from the effects of his over-exertion after breaking and crushing his arm. The doctors forbade his removal for a while, and he lay several days, very lonely and sad, at Still Hollow Station. Chet. Langham, who, after his own restoration had remained at the side of the Engineer, and nursed him as well as he could with both hands still disabled, brought word of Si's helpless condition; but also announced that he had left him in excellent hands. Nora Reno, the mistress of his heart and the victim of his numerous epistles, was reported to be at the side of her handsome, heroic young lover, administering comfort which was better than medicine to the poor mangled boy. The young ladies of society would probably not have done so improper a thing. But Miss Reno was not of "a set" which demanded of her heartlessness and selfishness, as requisites of good standing in their ranks, and fortunately was not bound by the usages of "our very best circles." She was the railroad belle of Bloom, the fair, honest daughter of Mark Reno, Station Agent, and a brave, true, noble-hearted girl. She was a heroine, too, for when not yet fifteen she saved a child's life at the risk of her own. Her father was then clerk at the Quirlington transfer, at Ixion Junction, and they lived near the track in a cottage which was humble, but pretty and cheerful. One day a neighbor's baby crawled out through a gate left ajar, and, climbing a not very difficult embankment, perched itself on the track and sat innocently playing with pebbles from the gravel of the road-bed. Swift around a curve came the lightning express, with a shriek which must have startled the child, though it moved not a peg from the path of approaching destruction. The Engineer caught a glimpse of the infant, and instantly whistled down brakes and reversed his locomotive; but it was too late to avoid rushing over the poor little innocent, if rescue did not quickly arrive. At this instant Nora beheld the situation, and, casting down a vase which she held in her hands, she uttered a low cry of terror and rushed out through the garden like a flash. Stopping not to unfasten the gate, she cleared the low fence at a bound and flew up the low bank like a bird. Not a second was to spare, and her eager hands clutched the poor baby almost from beneath the very wheels of the engine. Indeed, so close had it come to mangling and crushing the frail little fragment of mortality, which sat in its way, that Nora's white wrist was cut open to the bone, by the pilot's sharp edge, as she snatched the scared child from a terrible doom. And young ladies of ton did not approve of this girl, with a scar on her arm! 
               The society in which she now moved, as an ornament and a leader, was the free, hearty, sincere, unceremonious society which is so often condemned by the prudes of the land as "that loose railroad crowd;" but which is only more open and frank and unaffected than the stricter communities where all life's misdoings are secret and concealed. In fact, railroad society is just what it claims to be-nothing more. The approved and fashionable society of the world in general is not what it pretends to be-something less. But Nora was at Si's bedside, where, as his promised companion for the journey of time, it was her duty to be-where, as a loving and pure-minded woman, she was both proud and happy to be. Mrs. Grundy may frown; but Miss Reno was right. 
               With his trembling left hand Si had written: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Nora, I am hurt, but not bad. Will see you soon." 
                           
                              "S. P."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               It was to spare her anxiety, as she would have been expecting him. Here is her reply. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "MY DEAREST:-I have heard of your heroism and am proud of you. If I may I will fly to your presence. Only say the word." 
                           
                              "NORA."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Then briefly he scrawled again: 
                
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Beloved, I would have asked it. If you care to, and can trust me, come." 
                           
                              "S. P."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Her answer was: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "MY DARLING:-I love you. I trust you. I will come to you." 
                           
                              "NORA."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               The briefest, most sensible love-letters ever composed. Not wanting in tenderness, yet with something "railroadish" and telegraphic about them, which is peculiarly pleasant. 
               Chet Langham's small budget reported the fireman recovering rapidly. The scene of the smash had resumed its old look of desolation and dampness, the wreck had been piled on to flats and was being restored in the car shops at Bloom, the engine over whose ultimate destiny poor Silas was fretting himself very needlessly, was erect and being drawn to Pickatonic; and, as for himself, Langham declared he was hurt very slightly, not worth half the fuss that was made over him. But it was noticed that his lacerated hands were not fit for the handling of brakes again for many long days. And was this noble fellow allowed to go back to the brakes, after such an exhibition of ability and worth? O, yes. Promotion cannot always follow close on the heels of a heroic action. He had only done his duty, as he stated repeatedly, on being praised for his deed; and, as for promotion, it is not improbable that he never thought of it. Certainly he never asked for it, did not expect it, and possibly may not have wished it. This is one of the unfortunate features of railroading-its rewards are sometimes so tardy. But what must be the power of its charm when, in spite of this fact, it retains, undiminished, its army of worshipping slaves. Still Chet Langham was one of the few who are indifferent to personal advancement. They are clannish in the extreme, and so fond of their own particular tribe, and so attached to the labor to which they are accustomed, that no restless longing for change enters into their souls. They would not be otherwise than they are, even to be better. Then to go back to the question of rewards, the argument of the promoting power is sensible and sound. They say that a man's doing well in his place is conclusive demonstration of his fitness for that identical place, and that it were a dubious policy, and a questionable kindness, to raise him to some other position where failure is possible, leaving the situation he abandons for unaccustomed and possibly incompetent hands. Some good, faithful servants of our American railways feel bitterly the workings of this general method. But it does not work always, nor is it, in every case, sought to be enforced. To quote a very stale truism: 'circumstances alter cases." 
               In the official of his memorable trip, it was Livingston's pleasure, of course, to speak of Langham's most perilous performance and Parrington's unwavering adherence to duty, in the highest of terms. And the humbler efforts of the wayside waif Isaac, were not quite forgotten. But the results of these representations were not at once visible, as may be supposed from the circumstances already mentioned. The two former, Ned could not hope to help personally, but he determined, if possible, to befriend the boy Isaac, in his own limited way, since that simple but big-hearted fellow had modestly asked but a reasonable favor, in the mysterious letter conveyed to the pocket of the Conductor, when they parted at the Still Hollow cabin. 
               This short, strange epistle was only discovered by Livingston three days after its secret delivery. Its contents were these: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              MARSH TARVERN NEER STIL HOLLER, AGOST 9. 
                              Mister conedockter-deer fren:
                            
                           Kin yu git mea a plais on the rale rode. i bee goin tu run of frum hear i kin fire or braik. i hed a cussin as braiked on the rok iland rode whitch he fel of an dide, ef yu wil git mea a chans i kin stick on an wonte fal of an di. 
                           
                              frum yer fren, 
                              ISIK LOGAN.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               AHEAD OF TIME AND ALMOST A DEAPHEAD. 
               It is not all of life to live, nor all of death to die. 
               And Dr. Chalmers says somewhere: "The mere lapse of years is not life. To eat, drink and sleep; to be exposed to darkness and light; to pace around in the path of habits and turn the mill of wealth; to make reason our book-keeper, and thought an implement of trade-this is not life. In all this but a poor fraction of the unconsciousness of humanity is awakened; and the sanctities still slumber which make it worth while to be. Knowledge, truth, love, beauty, goodness and faith alone can give vitality to the mechanism of existence; the laugh of mirth which vibrates through the heart, the tear which freshens the dry wastes within; the music that brings childhood back; the prayer that calls the future near; the death that startles us with its mystery; the hardship which forces us to struggle, the anxiety that end in being." 
               Much of all this had come home to the heart of Ned Livingston lately. Not alone Father Tom's prolonged illness, though it hung like a shadow over all; nor yet Charley Lamble's continued and unexplained absence, though it was a source of much sorrow to him, inclined the young Secretary to serious thoughts. But Ned Livingston was in love-deeply, desperately, overwhelmingly in love. And every poor mortal's outlook upon life, and the world undergoes various sudden and mysterious modifications when this calamity befalls him. There is a pretty old ballad which declares that "the world is full of beauty when the heart is full of love." 
               If this is invariably so, the beauty is sometimes decidedly tinged with a melancholy hue. And it is thus in most cases of love newly born, and ignorant of its fate. We should not speak of our young friend as wholly unhappy, perhaps, but his spirits were oppressed at this time by an unaccustomed sadness. And love was the cause. He had learned just enough of Rachel Wyland, by diligent but most discreet enquiry, to increase the fierce passion she had inspired in his fresh, yielding heart. She was supposed to be a window-and suppositions were numerous on the lips of all parties who attempted to relate Rachel's history-for two little children, just able to talk, called her "mamma;" and her permanent home was at Lamoyelle. She was supposed to have plenty of means, for her establishment was handsome, her servants numerous, and she passed her time gaily, and apparently happily, between hotel life in the great city of Cargo, the tranquility of Lamoyelle, and frequent visits to prosperous friends at Salell and Duck Creek. She knew the lady Abbess and had visited at the convent once or twice; but never since the advent of Ned Livingston in Pickatonic. Relatives, other than her children, she appeared to have none. Her father and mother were said to be dead, and a certain independence of manner, a disregard for conventionalities and a persistent resistance to restraint, were believed to have alienated her from more distant and less considerate connections. She was reputed as charitable, hospitable and accomplished. Something of a flirt, perhaps; and society censors, and such prudes as condemned Nora Reno for womanly devotion to her lover, hurled huge denunciations at Rachel for her "freedom with men," as they called it. She was justly termed bold. Still, hers was not the boldness of doing, but that which, in fancied security, permits many acts of familiarity and folly in others whom, out of respect to Mrs. Grundy, she should have controlled, or repelled. Weaker women would have fallen where she trod securely. She was beautiful, and men loved her. And if she accepted, too freely or too quickly, their homage, it was hardly to be wondered at and not to be utterly condemned. If she sported on the border land lying between absolute virtue and the regions of voice, there was no reason for compromise so long as she ventured no farther. 
               She was a curious compound, was fair Rachel Wyland, and her character is difficult to portray. But, as she lived many years of her life in a fast railroad village, and incurred bitter blame for becoming identified with, and assuming the lead of the gay railroad society thereof, it is important that something of her eccentricity should be understood. 
               Not all of these points had been given to Livingston's ear, when he watched for his lady-love's return through Pickatonic, determined if he met the least gleam of encouragement to pursue her to Salell, and follow up the acquaintance. That time had arrived. He had met with a smilo and a bow from his charmer, in passing, and now, in his jauntiest apparel and most infatuating cravat, was about to set out for a tramp over the bottom. A flat, open car, filled with huge, heavy bales of pressed cotton, was just being attached to the plane rope as Livingston halted on the edge of the bluff, debating whether to walk or to ride down the steep, rough incline. It was not his custom to ride down, though often very glad of a "lift" when reutrning from a trip to Salell; but just at this moment he was admiring the glorious view spreading broadly and brightly below him, and, yielding to an impulse, he climbed to the top of the high pile of cotton and seated himself to continue an enjoyment of the prospect. The car was just commencing the descent, and Mother Leonardi was just accomplishing the ascent, when the asthmatic stationary engine developed symptoms of serious disorder. It coughed spasmodically, and gave some uncomfortable jerks to the rope, which nearly preciptated the tall load of bales down the hill, and caused Ned to perform some rare fears of balancing more expeditious than graceful. He maintained his position, however, until the man who managed brakes had signaled for a stop, which left the car hanging just over the brow of the bluff. If mother Leonardi had not laughed, Livingston certainly would have descended from his perch, at this point of the dubious descent, and taken a more steady method of proceeding. But the old woman's enjoyment of his disconcertion produced pique, and was enough to induce him to hold fast and carry out the original intention. The car would probably be ready very soon for a quieter motion. Meanwhile he bowed politely to the Madam and wished her "good day." 
                
               "Good day to yersel, Master Livingston," returned the old woman pertly. "I didn't suppose folks which declines to visit other folks would care to speak to them as isn't 'ristocratic folks." 
               The Secretary received this not very lucid remark as a reproach for his not having frequently visited the lady who was first to bid him welcome to Pickatonic. So he apologized with: 
               "I'm not much of a visitor, Madam Leonardi, for my business is rather confining; and, as I am not much of a hand for the excellent beverages you produce, it has not seemed worth while to trouble you with my unprofitable presence, even when not otherwise employed. But you must excuse my neglect and not doubt my regard. 
               Her beady eyes glistened with a visible cunning. 
               "Its regards for Clotty as you're a talkin' on, I s'pose," she said very knowingly, her head on one side, the wonderful cap opening and shutting like an umbrella, and her nose turning up at an angle unusual. 
               "Yes, certainly," returned the unsuspecting Secretary, intent upon mollifying the old woman merely; "my regard for both yourself and your daughter should not be questioned." 
               "Clotty'll jist be gladder nor a dorg to hear that are," cried the mixer of beverages exultingly, for she never abandoned the idea of possessing Ned for a son-in-law, "she's had a kind of a hankerin' after you ever sense that fust day, but it 'peared like the feelin' wasn't mootooal like." 
               "My friend," exclaimed the astonished Livingston, "you are decidedly loquacious." 
               "I'm what?" she demanded, a look of indignation flashing over the beads. 
               "Loquacious," repeated Ned. 
               "Livinstun," remarked the Madam rather warmly, "I'll not stand hard names. Them as calls names is no better than them as calls 'em, and folks which lives in stone houses shouldn't throw glass, no how. Its bad enough to bear all yer slights and unsociables, which they are breakin' my gal's trustin' heart, as is my only one left, three bein' dead, and which she's lettin' the worm gnaw on her cheek like a moth in a damask rose bud, not to be insulted in this manner by being called such a thing, and-." The tears now flowed freely, and drowned out the remainder of this very comprehensible speech, if it may be supposed to have had a termination. Livingston attempted to explain, but the designing old woman sobbed the louder, and called him, between times, a "hoary deceiver'-a "secluded fiend"-"an outdacious libertyne"-an "amphibious seducer"-a "delusive infatuation," etc., etc., evidently without any very clear knowledge of the literal meaning of her original anathemas. The innocent cause of all this denunciation was so exceedingly exasperated, by the hag's apparent stupidity, that he knew not what to say, and was only conscious of feeling very ridiculous perched upon a pyramid of cotton, and undergoing undeserved discipline at the hands-or fragments of hands-of an antiquated female. Failing entirely to make her understand that he meant no disrespect or unkindness by his unfortunate remark, his temper flared up for an instant, and, just as the car was again making spasmodic and threatening motions, he cried back at his tormentor: 
               "Old woman, go home and consult your dictionary, if you've got one; or eat 'musty hay' and try and get a little horse sense." This final squire cut from his sarcastic whip was in memory of her misleading him about Lazraus, on the occasion of their first meeting; a mutual blunder, if fairly considered, but one for which Livingston had never forgiven his whilom hostess. 
               The heavy-laden flat now glided more steadily over the brow of the bluff and resumed its descent in the usual manner. But before he was out of ear-shot he received as a parting salute the sort of shell from her choice vocabulary which lately exploded so disastrously under the nose of a learned professor when hurled by the hand of an ex-Premier of England. 
               She called him a "sociable parracide." 
               As presented by Mother Leonardi, however, the professor aforesaid might not have immediately recognized the objectionable epithes of his formidable enemy; but the woman meant social parasite all the same. 
                
               This farewell demonstration amused the young Secretary so much the his annoyance of a moment before was forgotten in a burst of laughter, and mentally he declared his intention of calling on his hospitable old friend after visiting Salell and arriving at a better understanding with her. Now, however, his mind and his heart were both turning once more to the interview lying before him. From his elevated seat he could see far over the bottom to the town, and even to the very house which sheltered his idol. And thinking of her, and her wonderful hold on his young, inexperienced heart, his reflections took in the strange change which had come over him since he traversed on foot the wide valley and the steep tiresome plane, on that long-ago morning of springtime, and the stranger and greater transformation effected in his inner existence, since his recent chance meeting with Rachel Wyland. What boy not yet twenty but has some romantic chord left in his being, which may sometimes be sounded in sentimental music? There is no sadder sight than a man, young in years, whose soul has already been robbed of this sweet plaintive string, or in whose bosom remains but a sad recollection of its soft tender tones. In many a poor human heart it is so warped and discordant and mournful that no power can awake it to pleasant vibrations again; but this is when the rough shocks of time and the rude hands of passion and pain have swept heedlessly over it, and ruined its melody forever. Not often, thank Heaven, is it found to be voiceless and wholly unstrung in the fresh souls of youth; though some have thus suffered, no doubt, in the earliest morning of life. Frank Weston was one. But gently as the sound of an olian harp thrilled the tone of this chord of romance through every fibre of Ned Livingston's being. He took off his hat, as on that first lovely dawn, months before, and let the cool summer wind from the valley blow through his soft auburn hair. It was as pure and refreshing and fragrant as of old, and its barely distinguishable music was once more in harmony with the song of his soul. He felt just the same its electrical effect, as it kissed his smooth brow, and the past and the future, for a brief, happy interval, fell away from him, leaving his senses to an exclusive clusive enjoyment of the present. Do you doubt that such short, fleeting intervals of perfect and unalloyed bliss can exist in the mind still hampered and fettered with mortality? Then you have surely outlived the bright memories of youth, or have never been blessed with a genuine childhood. 
               From his breezy eyrie, on the cotton bale, Ned Livingston looked off on the scene which had charmed him so thoroughly at the threshold of his railroad life. He saw the bright landscape in its full summer beauty, for autumn, though now close at hand, had not yet put brush to the picture. He saw the twin towns of Salell and Poland, with their gables and spires flashing back the warm sun; he saw the sluggish and winding canal, the slow-flowing river and the high, grass-grown bank of the railway that run up to Cargo, and over which had gone Lamble and Sarah and the following husband; he saw the broad valley with its marsh flowers still blooming, the high bluff that bounded it, and the great bridge, nearly finished at last, which spanned it so airily, and cast a dark net-work of shadows below; he saw the little temporary depot where his own strange experience as Conductor had commenced; he saw, in the distance, the leaky old scow which served Cushing Borie as a ferry boat, now bearing some ladies across the deep stream, and propelled, it appeared, by the great "bore" himself; he saw on the far hither bank a pleasure boat moored, its rusty chain held by the moss-cushioned log where once a young pilgrim had rested, and waited, and reflected, on a long-vanished time; he saw the eccentric, meandering course of the smooth, polished rails of the bottom, and watched, rolling noiselessly towards him, Jim Hook's baby engine, the "B," with its plume of gray smoke trailing gracefully over its bonnet. But what now? The asthmatic old stationary was up to its unpleasant tricks again. The over-loaded car stopped an instant, unexpectedly, and then started so suddenly, with a snap, that Livingston was thrown on his back. It flashed through his mind that the treacherous rope must be parting, and, before he could rise, there was a shivering shock and two rough ravelled ends of the overtaxed cable flew high in the air. Ned Livingston saw not the break. His eyelids were sealed with a feeling of terror. The bright world changed in a second to blackness. He experienced a sensation of falling, or rushing through the air; then there was a crash, a shriek in the voice of a woman, a short pang of pain, and instantly afterwards darkness and a perfect unconsciousness-an unconsciousness which might have been death. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               RECEIVED IN "B. O." AND HELD BY A HOOK. 
               The car had accomplished but half its descent, when the rope, which had evidently been weakened at the start, let that huge burden fall to its fate. There were other flats, similarly loaded, lying close to the foot of the plane, and the shock of collision was fearful. The man who managed brakes, and who stood always at the car's upper end, was instantly thrown off on the ties at the rear; but Livingston, clinging with terrified hold to the cotton bale, was carried down swift as a flash, with the freight, and thrown by the force of the crash, first into the air, and then into the river. The brakes of the cars, which stood waiting for Hook all along the pile bridge, were set tight, else the whole heavy train might have been driven over quite rapidly to meet the old "B," which was approaching; as it was, one was crushed, two unloaded and lifted from the track, and a fourth somewhat shattered and disturbed. The rest, being farthest removed from the point of collission, escaped with a considerable jarring, but stood the blow well. Jim Hook was just driving his engine on to the opposite end of the long piling bridge, when the descending flat struck. The whole scene took place in an instant. He saw the young Secretary clinging to the cotton, helpless and paralyzed; he saw the termination of the frightful descent, saw the form of a poor human being in its flight and its fall, heard the shriek of a lady in black who had fainted on the ferry, and then, halting his machine, leaped out on the bridge, quick as though. Swiftly, and with an agility that could only result from long training, the Engineer sprang along the high, slanting beams of the bridge, which had been purposely rendered impassable to footmen, in old Borie's interest-which penniless Celts had lost their lives in attempting to cross; their passage being changed all the same to the "Coe," and their passage of the Styx very likely, besides-until he reached a point over where the Secretary had gone down. Here his old circus skill served him well. Like a cat, or a monkey, he jumped from one brace to another, until as close to the water as the timbers permitted; then hanging himself by his legs to the lowest of the wood-work, swung down, with his hands nearly reaching the stream. Here he waited a moment as calmly almost as if standing on the foot-board of the "B." Once already had Livingston come to the surface and disappeared. This was nearer the bridge than the point where he first struck the water, and Hook coolly estimated that one more appearance would bring the poor boy at least within reach of his long, outstretched arms. It was so. When he came up again, it was under the edge of the tall piling structure, where the Engineer waited and watched, and a pair of strong hands seized the drowning man's wrists, and with firmness and strength held his head above water. Ned Livingston recovered his consciousness briefly in that happy moment of rescue, and looked languidly and gratefully up to the thin, smutty face just above him, and felt the tight hold of the soiled hands of toil, and realized quickly that he had been saved by the man whom he hated. A strange revolution of feeling swept over him in that instant of recognition, and realization of the fact. Bruised and half-drowned as he was, this sudden emotion proved quite overpowering, and his head droped again and a faintness returned, with a threat of complete insensibility again. But he heard the sharp voice of Jim Hook saying: 
               "Courage, young fellow, courage-don't give up-you are safe now-keep steady-help is at hand-all right, all right-be patient a moment-keep a good heart-the boat is close by-now the worst of it's over-"now keep--" 
               But the last of the Engineer's works of encouragement and cheering fell on deaf ears. The rescued youth sank into unconsciousness again. 
               Meanwhile little Frank had left the engine when Hook did; but he felt it would be but mere waste time following Jim along the intricate path of the bridge, knowing well its great danger and difficulty. He thought one enough for the almost miraculous feat of attempting a rescue by that means. So he sprung towards the boat on the beach, and, but for a chance, might have reached his poor friend about as soon as the more agile Engineer. The chain, to his utter dismay, he found locked, and a run to the engine, for a hammer to break it, consumed precious time. Frank Weston would not lose a second, however, and the fastening was severed and the Fireman in the boat rowing out in the stream by the time Ned had fainted and became burdensome in Jim Hook's strong hands. Not more than three minutes, perhaps, altogether, did the Engineer hold the young Secretary back from destruction, suspended, as it were, above a grave, before Frank was at hand with his boat, and the rescue was made perfect and complete. But the moments were long ones to the well-wearied legs of the suspended Engineer. He was glad of relief, for it was long since he had hung in this way from a flying trapeze in the circus, and this accident found him considerably out of practice. 
               Help was speedily summoned, and while Jim and little Frank returned, with regret, to their engine, hands as tender and friendly carried Livingston back, up the plane he had descended so fleetly a short time before, and lay him on an improvised couch in Mother Leonardi's small house of entertainment. He was still quite unconscious, or he might have protested against such a destination as the castle of his yet unappeased enemy; but it was the place most convenient, and convenience was all that could be consulted just then. 
               Lazarus had been ridden with speed-or as fast as he could go-to Salell for a physician; and, while they waited the arrival of Doctor Van Vickers, Jerkman, who was early informed of the case, stood by his young friend's rough bed and resisted the Madam's persistent attempts to force some hellish compound between Livingston's white lips. She had unlimited faith in her own dreadful mixtures, notwithstanding familiarity with their questionable ingredients, and could not be persuaded to delay their employment until medical advice had sanctioned it. 
               The old woman went about with an air of great unconcern, however, and an appearance of perfect understanding of the whole affair, which would have been amusing had the occasion been less serious. Her tossing head, upturned nose, as well as a manner of casting things around, and proceeding as if she had expected just such an occurrence, said as plainly as words: It doesn't surprise me; it's all right; I anticipated as much; all thoroughly deserved; might have been foreseen; no use in fretting; I was sure it was a-coming, etc., etc., though the beverage creator would hardly have translated her pantomime in this precise language. She did mutter once, sotto voce:
                
               "It's retchibution, nothin' but retchibution, sure as preachin'. Them as holds their heads above their specie," (meaning species) "can't expect nothin' but to be fetched low by the hand o' retchibution." 
               "Pitch in, old gal," cried Clotty, irreverently, and betraying but little anxiety for the fate of one whom she had been represented as "hankering" after, and who had been the innocent cause of encouraging a worm to "gnaw on her cheek," and other most melancholy entomological, Shakespearean things. 
               Brother Shirtrip arrived on the scene with his comforting, but somewhat stereotyped, remark about the "children of earth who stand on the crumbling brink," etc. It was rarely that his reverend vegetable countenance was seen within the gin-flavored quarters of Madam Leonardi, though one of his weak, onion eyes had looked matrimonially at her, occasionally, and the old woman was none too kindly inclined towards him. She was flying her signals of general hostility just now, and, perhaps, the black flag of "no quarter," for her guns did not show much respect for the hospital into which her establishment was temporarily transformed. Impulsively, like a wicked old war-craft, she immediately let fly one of her ricocheting shots at the pious and venerable cruiser: 
               "Neighbors as thinks 'emselves better nor the folks which they lives amongst, needn't fetch their shops along when they comes visitin'; which it's not the shoe-shop I alludes to jest now, but the preachin' shop. And as fur 'standin' on the crumblin' brink,' Brother Rip, I should say that there young man's pitched over; so there's no good o' talkin' about yer 'brink' 'round here." 
               "Go for him," advised Clotty, in her brief, forcible way. 
               "Young woman, do you pretend to be a Christian?" inquired the worthy parson of Miss Leonardi, kindly. 
               "You bet," was intended as an affirmative reply. 
               "Do you often pray?" he ventured again. 
               "Not much on the pray, old hoss." 
               The uneasy Clotty had mounted her favorite barrel, meanwhile, and seemed now in her element, making great waves by her wild, rocking motions, which splashed like the surf of the sea in a storm. With her knees well drawn up, her arms wrapped about them and her chin resting on them, she looked like some ill-favored bird, huddled up on its perch and resisting a fierce blowing wind. Here she felt secure against the parson's attacks, and became perfectly defiant. The good man, undaunted, confined himself, for a time, to this irreclaimable sheep, but he continued to speak gently: 
               "Would you not like to turn from sin and be saved from the burning?" 
               "Not any." 
               "Would you not like to experience a change of heart?" 
               "Mine's good enough." 
               "Could you not be won from error?" 
               "I ain't on it." 
               "Will you not yield yourself to better thoughts, and endeavor to find peace?" 
               "Not with this shirt on." 
               "And not with that dress on, either, unless she does it pretty quick," was a quiet aside from poor Jerkman, looking seriously annoyed by the girl's violent gestures, which, certainly, threatened to disrobe her entirely. Neither was he free from some feeling of dissatisfaction towards Shirtrip for his share in the disturbance. The time seemed ill-chosen for introducing his catechism. The Paymaster was alone doing what little there was to be done for poor Ned, before Doctor Van Vickers should arrive. 
               "Young woman," continued the preacher, with his professional twang, "you are standing on the--" 
               "O, dry up, with your 'crumbling brink,' and all that," remonstrated Clotty, with an interruption; "get up a new gag." 
               "Lord, have mercy upon you." 
               "Simmer down." 
               "The way of the transgressor is hard," with a nasal intonation. 
               "Then switch off," advised Clotty, imitating the parson's pious tone. 
               "How can you hope to be saved?" 
               "Conundrums are played out," she remarked, contemptuously. 
               "Hell yawns at your feet." 
               "Go there yourself," she cried, exasperated. 
               "Verily, the spirit of sin hath visited this house. Daughter, you are, indeed, one of the foolish virgins whose lamp--" 
               "You're another," she shouted back, much to the amusement of poor Jerkman. The arrival of the doctor now put an end to his anxiety, however, and terminated the burlesque church service, which the parson and the girl might have carried on indefinitely. The professional man pronounced Livingston's recovery most hopeful, and soon discovered symptoms of reviving. Clotty was sent in search of a fan, and as she passed Jerkman, on her way to the rear of the house, she said, confidentially: 
               "Old Shirtrip is heavy on the preach, but he can't fool this child," and then she flung herself out of the room as if very well pleased with her successful resistance to the minister's attacks. 
               The venerable brother, thus cheated of his prey, turned at once to the young lady's mother, who was busy with some terrible compound on the bar. With irritating patience and provoking gentleness, he said: 
               "My good woman, you're not bringing up that child in the way she should go." 
               "Now, see here, Rip, I'me riled enough without yer botherin about Sunday matters jest now," cried Mother Leonardi, in anger. "Ef there's no more rest nor this for one in one's own habitation, one might as well be expectorated." There was nothing like extermination in the mild, pleading voice with which brother Shirtrip persevered. 
               "Do you not owe something to the memory of the dear departed Leonardi?" 
               This was a tender spot with the old woman, so she sniffled a little, and wiped her eye with the handle of a teaspoon. 
               "Would he have wished his daughter to grow up a virgin--" 
               "I suppose he would," hastily interrupted the madam. 
               "Wait 'till I have finished, sister," resumed the preacher, not at all disconcerted,-"a virgin whose lamp couldn't burn for want of oil?" 
               The oil business was a favorite figure with Shirtrip, and deserved to take rank with his "crumbling brink," etc.; but neither took well, for neither seemed ever to be received in its figurative sense. 
               "I hope he's not a troublin' himself about it," she answered, at last, "for ile's only three shillins a gallon, and the Pennsylvaney wells is runnin' yet." 
               "How long did you live with your good man?" softly asked the pious vegetarian, like a sensible workman still hammering at the malleable spot. 
               "Alas," sighed the widow, "it 'pears like he'd jest flitted before me for a day--" 
               "Twenty years is a pretty long flit, old gal," interrupted Clotty, returning with the fan. Tears or perspiration fell freely in the questionable mixture which was being compounded by the madam's few fingers, but she waited to finish and swallow it, before throwing the spoon savagely at her irreverent offspring, and, this duty accomplished, she again turned to the clergyman. 
               "Take a drink, Rip, and call it square," said the widow, getting warmed into generosity by the fire of her grog. "What's the use o' diggin' up graves and floppin' corpses round permiscuous like. 'Taint no joke havin' dead folks throwed in yer face, all of a suddent." 
                
               To the Rev. Mr. Shirtrip's high credit, be it recorded that he declined Madam Leonardi's invitation to imbibe. But there were witnesses present. "Verily," breathed the temperate old pastor, "as the wicked man said of his dram, 'the horn of the unrighteous shall be put down.' But I do it not in your way. Will you ever repent? Has the future no terrors? Is life to be wasted? Is the soul to be lost?" 
               "Go in lemons," cried Clotty, with demonstrations of applause at the old man's exhibition of fervor. 
               "My dear girl, I am not a lemon," protested the pastor with a sweetness which proved the truth of his declaration. 
               "You'd better turn yer attention to the patient, Rip," observed the madam confidentially, "he's badly in want o' preachin'." 
               "I trust this will be a warning to our young friend," said Shirtrip in his saintliest tones. We all stand on the crum--" 
               "Silence, man," demanded Dr. Van Vickers sternly. 
               "Sir, are you a soldier of the Lord?" enquired the astonished parson. 
               "No, sir, I'm a physician," replied the stern esculapian. 
               "I mean, sir, are you a religious man?" 
               "No, sir, I'm a Dutchman," answered the doctor from Holland. 
               Failure in this unprofitable quarter drove Shirtrip back to the widow. 
               "Would you believe it," she said, as the preacher approached her with his sweetest expression, "that there young feller, which lays there prostituted by the hand of retchibution, called me low-names a little whiles ago." 
               "Low names!" exclaimed the reverend brother:" our young friend must have forgotten himself when he attacked a fair lady like you" The madam made desperate legitimate attempts to get up a blush at this, but, failing by any of the devices which are practiced successfully by younger women, she swallowed quickly another dose of gin and got up a fast fleeting flush. 
               "Yes, indeed," she resumed, "him as now lies unconciable beneath my roof, indignated me with low names." 
                
               "And what were those low names, good woman?" 
               "It was somethin' like low-creatures-or low-gracious, or words to like report," she lucidly explained; "and as he's one o' them as attends reglar all yer meetins in the car, its time he know'd Scripter." 
               "His ear may be deaf that he hears not," remarked the brother. 
               "I don't know nothin' about his ear," madam resumed; "but ef ye'd learnt him the Scripters he'd a knowed the fate o' them brats as bawled old Elishus bare-headed. He's got took in his misdoings jist the same as them infanticide sinners, and I hope if he lives ye'll distill into him them texts as says, 'it's easier to go through the eye of a camel than to insult his neighbor's wife;' and 'to love his neighbor's jist like himself, is the fust law of profit.'" 
               Livingston reviving, and Jack Holland's good wife sending word to have the young man brought to her hospitable home, the doctor advised immediate removal. 
               "I will see the patient again shortly," he said, "but, while you carry him to the cottage, I must visit Mrs. Wyland at the residence of Mr. Beliful. Rachel Wayland was a witness of the accident," he continued to Jerkman, "and I am told has been conveyed fainting to the house of the friends she was intending to visit. I fancy her case is not serious, however, and I shall return to Mr. Livingston directly." So saying he left. Whilst hands kind and careful bore the Secretary out to the humble bluff cottage, Mother Leonardi looked on with a contemptuous expression in her shallow, beady eyes, and a sneer on her unruly lip. Her vengeance against Livingston was scarcely appeased by the punishment fate had awarded, but a lingering hope that he might yet live to make Clotty a devoted and desirable husband restrained her somewhat. At the doctor's casual mention of Rachel Wyland, the madam had pricked up her eyes and flapped back her miraculous cap-border suspiciously. 
               Laying one of her few remaining digital members close beside her aspiring pug nose, she briefly reflected and audibly reasoned in this manner: "Rachel Wyland, hey? Peert minx! And she goin' and faintin' and sich, and all along o' young Livinstun's tumble. I smell a rat." Which latter declaration was very likely to be true, as the opportunity was favorable for smelling a good many about her vermin-infested quarters. Shirtrip looked up, when she mentioned the odor, as the inclination of her organ of smell indicated the ceiling as the locality affected, and while he explored, with his onion-like eyes, for traces of rats up aloft, the hostess rushed forth on the impulse of a moment, and, following close to the litter on which Livingston was being carried along, whispered low in the poor fellow's unheeding ear: 
               "No hard feelins, Livinstun, Clotty's awful sorry. Don't let them as talks about her and Bodkins inference you ter think they was engaged. 'Tain't true, Livinstun, which she's lived 
                      
                        'In maiden medication, fancy and free' 
                     
                   as the poets says." 
               "Go away, pestiferous female," cried Jerkman, indignant at her persistent annoyance. And with this rebuke the lady of the gin shop fell silently back, full of suppressed wrath, to vent her pent feelings and propound her philosophy to the parson. As thus: 
               "The likes o' them hain't got no reel charity, no more nor a dorg. They is what I calls 'ristocratic railroaders, and they cares only fur therselves, which poor folks and umbles hes no show. Spose I was drownded, who'd fret? Or 'spose I was so all-fired povertied as which I hadn't a rag to my back nor a gound to my body, and spose I had to walk in that ther condition from Pickatonic to Salell and back again, who'd help me, do yer spose? What ud them ristocratic hypocrites do for me-what ud you, even you do, brother Rip?" 
               The parson smiled blandly. "I can't speak for others, fair neighbor; but I think, for the sake of the community, no less than your own, I should be moved to do something in such an extreme," he said quietly. 
               "And what would you do?" 
               "Lend you my pants, madam." 
               But no angel whispered then in his ear of a time yet to come when those masculine garments should be permanently surrendered, and his own independence meekly sacrificed to a strong-minded woman. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               ON THE TURN-TABLE.-LAID UP FOR REPAIRS. 
               When Livingston slowly returned to full consciousness, he found himself lying on a comfortable couch in a chamber of Jack Howland's neat cottage. The window was open which looked down the bluff; white curtains were waving before it, and beyond rustled trees whose bright green was growing golden in the sunset. The sweet breath of summer filled the room, and cleanliness and comfort and neatness were supreme. A comely old lady was driving flies from his face with a waving green bough. There were patches of crimson light flecking the walls. There was a smell of fresh roses floating fitfully about. There was a faint sound of birds softly greeting the on-coming twilight. There was a view of the river, which the window and its drapery of gold-tinted foli age gracefully framed. There was a glass, on a table at the bedside, with a yet unmixed powder lying near it, and a beautiful bouquet by its side. There were shells of the sea and some books, blue vases and an album on a green hanging shelf against the wall. There were gay-colored prints filling in the bare spaces; and some of them were only manufacturer's advertisements with views of impossible locomotives in the center; and, among the lot, a large, tinted photograph of old Jack on his engine. Except for the birds, and the weak, sickly coughing of a cer tain asthmatic machine in the distance, there was silence most grateful in the room and through the house. The bedstead was of oak; the bed drapery was snowy and spotless; the pillow was fragrant and soft; and the poor frame that rested thereon so weary-so weary. Before he quite realized these surroundings, the half-muffled voice of the puffing old "stationary" brought back to mind all that had passed on the plane and the river, and, with a knowledge of his strange preservation and narrow escape from destruction, a great fount of gratitude welled up in his heart, and the pale lips soon fashioned it into a low murmured prayer of thanksgiving to Heaven. The motherly form, with its wand of green leaves, disappeared from the bedside, and also another who had stood at her elbow, so as not to disturb him. His first prayer was followed by a second, in which audible tones asked forgiveness above for the sin of having hated Jim Hook. It was heard at the Great Throne of Mercy, he it hoped; but who upon earth, in the house, in that room, had been listening? For, back from the head of the bed, where Livingston's weary eyes could not be turned, was the sound of a sigh, long and deep. 
               "Who is there?" asked the invalid, feebly. 
               Mrs. Howland came forward and told him that Hook had come up from the bottom to watch for the night, if he might be permitted. "He is here, Mr. Livingston, by Father Tom's approval," she continued, "and comes very gladly to be of service. He's by far the best nurse on the bluff. Will you see him?" 
               The lids of the injured youth languidly fell, for an instant, to conceal an emotion that one might be proud of; and then his white lips gave a willing assent: 
               "Yes." 
               The Engineer advanced to the side of the bed, sat down by it, took Ned's weak hand between his own hardened palms, and bowed his head down on the counterpane in silence. But one look in Jim's sharp, sorry face, assured Livingston that his words of confession and petition had reached mortal cars, and he grieved very bitterly that his long-cherished anger against the brave boy should have been thus disclosed. He withdrew his hand, gently, from the other's rough clasp and laid it, with unspoken blessings and thanks, on the Engineer's frizzled, brown head. There was no need of words. The barrier between them, erected by Livingston's perversity and sensitive folly, was melted away in that moment of speechless communion. And the Secretary elevated still another railway hero onto one of his heart's vacant pedestals. 
                
               Later, when they talked of the matter with calmness Jim said: "I never dreamed of being specially hated. Your coolness, whenever we met, I construed into a general disinclination to make any acquaintances among common workingmen, and I could not suppose I had been singled out for particular contempt. The rough, thoughtless speech of that morning, which gave you offence, was only my natural, unpolished way of getting-off chance remarks, and was not, even remotely, intended for your annoyance. I hope the mischance has been forgiven." 
               "A thousand times, yes," answered Ned, much ashamed of having magnified a trifle so unreasonably. "I am the one to ask pardon, not you. But the lesson shall not go for nought if I live. I will never hereafter be turned against a man by the sound of a single harsh word, nor condemn him in ignorance, nor wrong him with injustice for the shadow of a fault. You have saved my poor life, which is a debt I can never repay to you personally; but if that life is permitted to endure it shall be a more charitable one for your sake." 
               This was late in the evening, when the two were alone, and Jim Hook with the tenderness of a woman was watching and waiting on his patient. It was against the doctor's orders for Ned to do much talking, so his faithful preserver and nurse beguiled the long hours by relating events in his own early life, and the haps and mishaps of a roving career with a circus. 
               Mrs. Howland dropped in before midnight, to see what was wanting, and, finding Ned wakeful and cheerful, she told him of Rachel's alarm on the ferry, and of her having been carried to the convent insensible, through anxiety for him. The motherly soul told him also that the bunch of fresh roses which stood in the room were Mrs. Wyland's kind gift. She had brought them for other disposition, but immediately her lit of unconsciousness was over, and she learned of Ned's rescue and improving condition, she asked that the flowers should be placed by his bed. The lady was still at Mr. Beliful's, the guest of the prim lady Abbess, and would not return to Salell until morning. If she might she would call, on her way down the bluff, and see how the young gentle man mended. She hoped there would be no objections. 
               "O, I shall be only too happy," he said; and then he asked that the fragrant bouquet should be laid on the pillow beside him. When good Mrs. Howland had complied with this request, he smiled very sadly, remarking: 
               "Thanks, thanks-I am forced to keep saying the same words continually. You'll find me an unwelcome burden in your snug little cortage, I fear. I'm a troublesome patient." 
               "Not a bit, not a bit," protested Jack's good old wife; "don't speak and don't think of such a thing, dear young man. Mr. Howland has told me very frequently of his fondness for you, and so long as our good little home can be of service to any who've shown kindly feeling for him, its shelter is welcome and our service no trouble at all, but a pleasure. You mustn't worry on that account, or the doctor will think we don't take proper care of you here and be ordering you away from us." 
               "Where is my dear old dancing Jack?" Edward asked. 
               "Down the line," she replied; "but he'll bring up the 'through express freight,' in the morning, and though he, of course, will be sorry for your accident, the pleasure of finding you here in his humble little home will lessen his regret I'm a thinking." 
               "He is good, very good," answered Livingston, dreamily-"as poor as a man need to be, to have such a good and true wife. The life of an Engineer's wife must be a most anxious, unhappy and restless one, is it not?" He was thinking of his theories expounded at Bloom. "You are parted so much," he resumed, "that it can't seem like having a husband at all; and then the constant uncertainty and dangerous, health-trying service by night, make a sum of discomfort and trouble which women in ordinary life do not know. I am beginning to think that not only are all railroad Engineer's heroes, but that their wives are all heroines." 
               "Our life is not without its trials," she said a little sadly, "and it wasn't intended that any existence on earth should be wholly exempt. To be parted so much from my husband is a cross I have borne with impatience these many long years; but it is not without some compensation. I think we love each other better for these temporary separations and intervals of dangers. Continued anxiety keeps affection awake and we never have a chance to grow tired of one another." 
               The Secretary learned in good time that this brave woman's hard-learned philosophy was of the sort which had given consolation to the poor, restless heart of full many an Engineer's wife. 
               The motherly hostess now left her young guest in the hope of his finding some rest; but the night was a restless one, only made tolerable by faithful Jim Hook's constant efforts to rob the dark hours of their dullness. When "Extract" arrived he ran in haste to look after his missing companion, and weary and sleepy as he was, when he found his "wife" wakeful and nervous, he could not be driven away. Insisting that Hook should take a snooze on the floor, and get refreshed for an early morning watch, he took up his station by the bedside, and administered prescriptions as directed and cheered and encouraged, and supported and tranquilized the sufferer; bringing over his own ague nostrum from its shelf in the old office chamber and amusing Ned occasionally by the facial contortions which followed each strong, bitter dose. Here he stayed until duties, imperative, called him away down the line; then he left as he had come, jolly and light hearted, and Hook, uncomplaining, resumed his long watch of the morning. 
               Next day Ned seemed better. They thought him out of danger, but he was not so yet. The doctor advised careful nursing and close watching. And he scarcely knew, even then, if life's unsteady flame would continue to burn. The poor fellow stood, as it were, on a turn-table, with strong arms, invisible, pushing fiercely in opposite directions. For a time it was hard to tell what his direction would be. If one power should prevail he might climb the steep grade, by an effort, and arrive at the terminus of health; and kind hands were near him to lighten his load, and cast sand on the rails, and bring tiresome burdens of water and wood, for a good head of steam, that this desirable way might be possible. But if the other power triumphed, they knew he must run swiftly down on the other dread track to a destination unknown, where impenetrable shadows lie thick about the station, and where brakes are unavailing. 
               Internal and unsuspected injuries, caused by the shock of collision, now began to develop themselves in symptoms, alarming. He fell into fever and again into delirium. His last lucid moment for many sad days was when fair Rachel Wyland came into his chamber that bright summer morning and stood at the foot of the bed, with Mrs. Howland, and looked at him tenderly. The words they exchanged were but few and commonplace, and Ned was so near his bad turning place that he never knew afterwards exactly what was uttered on the occasion. He lay looking foolishly happy, with the bouquet of roses, all faded and drooping, laid close to his check, and pondered the strangeness of the chance which had made the very one to whose side he was going, a witness of his terrible accident, and which now brought her before him in her dazzling, bewildering beauty. She was glad he liked flowers, and especially roses. She would send him some fresh ones very soon, and, as she had promised another brief visit to Mrs. Beliful, in the course of a week, would look in on the patient again, if he were not already about by that time. Then she left, and the flickering flame of his consciousness went out once more, and a hard fight for life yet remained to be fought. 
               Hook became a fixture, and none were so gentle and tender and faithful as he; though the good friends who seconded the Engineer's efforts never wavered or faltered. Good friends, indeed, were these tried railroad friends! Where else through the world, save within the charmed circle of home, are there hearts at once iron and gold-at once so steadfast and firm, enduring and constant as well as so affectionate, impressionable, priceless and true? 
               One week was a blank in Ned Livingston's life. At the end of that time, on a still summer morning, after a night's soothing sleep and less wildness than usual, he awoke to a sense of existence once more and found the world rolling on just the same as when his knowledge of it had ceased. And this seemed so strange to him. It does to all people who loose not only earth but themselves, for a while. It is hard to understand how the machinery of society gets on without help from our long serving hands. And be we never so modest, the same thought intrudes itself inevitably. 
               But the crisis was past, and the engine was heading up grade towards a bright, hopeful terminus. In the first blessed moment of consciousness, with a glorious dawn stealing into the neat cottage-chamber, a light breeze just stirring the curtains and rustling the foliage; with a hush on the river below and the faint voice of birds, newly waking, among branches and bushes down the bluff-side; with the smell of roses that had charmed him at first, and a great bunch of flowers, in which roses predominated, placed just where his eye might fall readily on it; with a heart full of hope, a brain full of vigor, a frame free from all but the echo of pain, and a pleasant conviction prevailing in his soul that youth and a strong constitution had triumphed-with all these things in and about him, he was startled by a sudden close clasping of his hand, which lay listless on the counterpane, and pleased to hear a well remembered voice repeating 
               "Neddy, Neddy, Neddy-are you better? Do you know me?" 
               He turned his head slowly and his drooping eyes fell on the handsome, excited, but glad, earnest face of his friend Charley Lamble. The invalid's first words were broken and fitful. "I-I-am so glad. I-knew-you-would-come" he said, with a sad, sickly smile. "Is-is-it all-all right-old fel-fellow?" 
               "Yes, dearest friend," exclaimed the young Conductor, impulsively; "it is all right, indeed, now you are better. But you speak of my absence. That is all right, too, only it has kept me so long from your side. And you never thought ill of me, in spite of appearances, did you Neddy?" 
               "For a moment-perhaps-yes." Livingston confessed it with sorrow. "But-not lately, dear boy. It-was-Tom-Father Tom-put faith-in me. Good Father Tom." 
               "God bless, Father Tom!" cried Charley, "and God bless you, too, Neddy, for believing the best. I shall tell you all about it when you are strong enough to hear me through. I have so much to say, and you must not be wearied, you know. There, close your eyes again, like a good fellow, and rest. Rachel Wyland is at the Convent, and is coming over, by and by, for a look at your poor sick face. She will be glad to find you out of that terrible delirium. See the flowers she sent over last evening. They were sent for, to Cargo, and that is how I learned of your trouble. I'll tell you all about it as soon as the doctor gives me leave. I am forbidden to talk now, and yet what a world of pent feeling is in my heart. If only I might be allowed, I could pour torrents of burning words out at your feet. And I am going to do it soon, even if you spurn me afterwards, for I can't any longer sail under false colors. I am an awful sinner, Neddy, sure enough; but innocent in this stupid Pees business-perfectly innocent there." 
               Mrs. Howland and Jim Hook coming into the room put a stop to the young fellow's fast running tongue, and forced him to screw down brakes very lively on his long train of words, and shut-off steam abruptly. 
               Leaving then, he came back an hour or two later escorting Rachel Wyland, now accomplishing her second visit to the Lady Abbess. This time, in spite of the varied emotions which fluttered through his heart and flushed his pale face, at each look, tone or motion of the beautiful woman before him, Ned Livingston somehow observed how peculiarly handsome and healthful Charley Lamble had grown in his absence. A great change had come over him. Not only were all traces of his old indisposition swept away, relieving his good looks of the blemish which sickness bestows, but there was an enthusiasm and a boyish freshness about his actions, and a brightness, frankness and joyousness in his once languid eye that told of some sorrow outlived, some happiness begun, some burden of affliction laid down, some triumph over evil, some escape from the chains of a long fettered soul. And how the weak, reserved boy on the bed shut his eyes at the sight, and trembled, and grew faint, and gasped slightly for breath, as he pondered this miraculous transformation and thought of how it might have been born of his falling in love. And if so, who so fitted to be the object of a transfiguring, overwhelming first-love, as Rachel Wyland? It was a strange time for jealousy, that hour of his turning from the grave's very verge to begin life anew. But the sick have odd fancies, and Livingston had never before been in love. There was an easy familiarity in the intercourse of Rachel and Charley; but then they were not new acquaintances, for the lady had traveled very often with the Conductor, and he had more than once met her in the gay railroad circles among the sociable people of Salell. But only a very poor reader of life's simple book would have construed their free, unconcealed friendship into anything so serious as love. Rachel remained by the Secretary's couch a long while, this bright morning, and read to him one or two extracts from Longfellow's "Evangeline," a copy of which was one of Mrs. Howland's household treasures. She also put cologne on his head, and administered a cool, grateful beverage, the doctor had ordered. Charley smiled with sincere satisfaction as he noticed the deep, quiet pleasure those delicate, feminine attentions bestowed on his friend. Poor Ned was too weak to disguise his great joy, and Lamble read it plainly in the patient's glad eye, and on his quick, flushing cheek. Did she who thus kindly relieved tired Jim Hook, for a time, read the signals so apparent to another? While she tenderly wove a fine web of enchantment about him-and did it unconsciously, innocently but surely-did she see the red lights of danger, and foresee a smash up? Perhaps, for soon after, she discreetly departed. On leaving, she took from their vase the sweet flowers she had presented the evening before, and, drying their stems on a napkin, wrapped around them the delicate fabric of her fragrant little handkerchief, and laid the bouquet at Ned's side. 
               "One who loves flowers," she said, resting her soft palm an instant at parting on the youth's, white, thin hand, "is not satisfied to enjoy them with one sense alone. For my part, I must smell them, and touch their bright petals, and sometimes even taste of their sweetness, as well as drink in their beauty with my eyes, before I feel that I have extracted all the pleasure they can give. To be sure, this rough treatment makes them much shorter lived; but I never mind that; I am content they should die when they have exhausted their charms in contributing to my enjoyment. I can always get others." 
               Then she left him to hands much less gentle, perhaps, but not less kindly and willing, and faithful. And Ned kissed the little perfumed lace handkerchief, which protected his flowers, and touching, and smelling, and tasting the petals, as he never had thought of doing until that time, fell to following sick fancies again, and discovered a deep hidden meaning in Rachel's last words. "It is the philosophy of some women to so deal with the world as Rachel Wyland confessed herself accustomed to deal with the blossoms," thought Livingston, weaving unprofitable figures in his mind. "Rachel is said to be something of a flirt. Can this be an honest woman's philosophy? Is it hers?" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               MANY TIES OF MUCH WORTH. 
               At last the young patient was decidedly better and a throng of Pickatonicers, who had long been excluded, came down to the neat bluff-side cottage for a visit. Ned asked that they all be admitted; and then came to him Jerkman, with news from the office and a congratulatory message from poor Father Tom, who, though comfortable was not any better; came to him, Jack, his kind host, who had often looked in through the dark days gone by, when his willing but awkward hands found no employment at nursing, but who now nearly crushed Ned's soft fingers in the powerful iron grip of his hearty salutation; came to him nimble little Frank, with a comical smile on his small, clownish face, the professional forced fun of which was relieved by the pathos of a bright tear of joy in each eye; came to him Langham, with his two helpless hands still in bandages, and bearing on his lips a modest regret that his part in taking care of the hurt Secretary was necessarily so small, because of the slow healing wounds; came to him Dan. Daley, Charley's other experienced and reliable brakeman, who had ably helped Livingston through the trials of his first trying trip in the character of Conductor; came to him the Count in a suit of new clothes, and grease enough smeared on his locks to have oiled a locomotive through a hundred mile run; came to him Clotty, not far in the rear of the Count's polished boot heels, and bearing the gift of a pop bottle full of mysterious fluid, which she pronounced "high old daddy for a bunged-up buffer," but which was gracefully declined on the invalid's behalf, by Mrs. Howland-perhaps for the reason that he was not a "bunged-up buffer;" came to him Borie, who "reckoned that was a right peert mistake" in some long settled ferry account, (it was rumored the irrepressible had charged the "Coe" two cents and a half for Livingston's involuntary passage half way across the stream at the time of the accident) and wanted the benefit of the Secretary's recollection of the transactions; came to him the doctor with "just one more does" of necessary physic, and a word of encouragement; came to him Shirtrip with one more dose of "the crumbling brink," altogether unnecessary and inappropriate, and the usual orthodox words of discouragement; came to him Beliful with regrets at the overtaxed capacity of the convent, which prevented the victim of the catastrophe being cared for within its hospitable walls; came to him the prim lady Abbess with similar regrets altogether useless, and a fresh bouquet forwarded from a Lamoyelle garden altogether priceless, in a young lover's eyes; came to him Mother Leonardi, with preliminary inquiries for the "poor dear sycophant," (which was amiably intended, her love of large words having led to the use of an unfortunate one, on account of its first sound of "sick,") and with a remarkably cheering and enlivening description of an accident, similar to Ned's in which her "neffy, which he contracted for a rumor in his side, and busted his final column and went to the cold, silent tum, all along o' jest sich a confusion;" came to him Put, the silent, the listless, the mysterious, whose unprepossessing exterior hid the pearl of a pure honest soul, and, as Ned believed, concealed a sad, unhealed wound in the heart, and he brought with him into the cottage that glorifying smile which lit up his plain features into actual beauty, and looked the warm sympathy and friendliness that words could not well have made plainer; came to him Isaac Logan, (now braking for Extract on the "mixed,") bringing with him the tribute of two tearful eyes, and a tremulous, "thank God, you are better!" came to him Flop with his rolling sea gait, and an echo of the sweet-voiced old fiddle in his tones of kind inquiry, his presence as enlivening as "songs of the briney," or "music instrumental," on the steps of the office, now so long interrupted; came to him Joe Glow, with a glad, hearty welcome back to health, a considerate seal on his fund of choice slang, and a low tragic whisper, in which was communicated, to sympathizing ears, the fact that Miss Dorathy Dare, ("gentle Romeo's" fair "Juliet") was soon to become Mrs. Joe; the she-dragon aunt, Felicity Flint, having lately unaccountably relented, and withdrawn her opposition to a railroad combination; came to him "boys" from the shop in the shed, and from the shop in the car, with faces and hands black as usual, but souls pure and white as the whitest-for labor was dropped but a moment, and the time freely given to congratulating the favorite, and each brought the bright, grateful specie of kind words, coined deep in true hearts, and dropped them so copiously at the sick fellow's bedside, that his treasury of affectionate greetings was full to overflowing, and his happiness, at possessing the love of such men, was unbounded. 
               It were superfluous to add, came to him Hook, for that good, tireless friend never left him by day or by night, and little Frank Weston was running the "B" on the bottom so acceptably (with one of Jack Howland's boys serving as fireman) that Jim had no need to haste back. And came to him Lamble need not be proclaimed, for Charley was Ned's other self, not, perhaps, better loved by the Secretary than of old, for that were impossible, but yielding a more demonstrative return than in the earlier days of their acquaintance, as if some reason for previous reticence had ceased to exist, or a newly born impulse of affection had sprung up in his heart. 
               Charley Lamble had not yet resumed his position as regular Conductor of the morning express, for Blaisdell, the "extra"-he of the unlimited leisure-was still left in charge, and the friends, Ned and Charley, were left uninterrupted to an enjoyment of each other's society. There was, evidently, some secret on the mind of the latter which he heartily wished, yet dreaded, to reveal. In the hour of Ned's first, glad return to a knowledge of passing events, the other was eager for a chance to lay bare his torn bosom, only lately relieved of a measureless load of depression and shame, and even guilt; but the more he loved Livingston and the more he realized the young Secretary's unquestioning, blind, brotherly regard for himself, the more did he dread to risk this one love of his life that had been unfalteringly true to him. For there was a risk. His dear friend was human after all. The confession he had determined to make would try a warm friendship most severely. So he shrank from the ordeal, and neglected many fair opportunities now plenty enough, and the days drifted on with the story untold. 
               One thing he communicated, however, without hesitation. This was the mystery of his suspicious simultaneous disappearance with Sal Volatile. He had gone to Salell with the aid of poor Lazarus, being much too enfeebled to walk, and, in spite of his remonstrances, Mrs. Pees had followed, not far in the rear of the "musty hay" victim. She declared her intention of going up on a shopping and visiting expedition, to Cargo, and insisted on the young invalid's escort. He protested that in view of the scene which had taken place in the hall of the convent that morning, and in view of widow Link's animosity, such a departure in company would create idle talk, however harmlessly intended. But Mrs. P. was obdurate. She traced figures of 8 with the end of her much damaged parasol, and insisted on going in spite of appearances, and seemed rather to enjoy in advance the sensation which was likely to result; and especially to exult over the jealousy and indignation of her rival and antagonist. Against the determination of this headstrong, wilful woman it was vain for the Conductor to struggle, so he submitted with what grace and amiability could be mustered under the circumstances, and they traveled together to Cargo. Arrived in the city, however, his really severe indisposition was made an excuse for the slightest attentions which common politeness permitted, and while the vexed and disappointed young woman made her way to the residence of friends, Lamble drove, without announcing his intention, directly to the great Kinzie Water Cure, outside of city limits, on the shores of a lake. An extensive conservatory, adjoining and connected with, the Cure, having one day received an order from Mrs. Rachel Wyland, for an elegant bouquet to be sent to "Mr. Livingston, Pickatonic, care of E. Z. Beliful, Agt.", Lamble was led to some inquiry concerning a circumstance so singular, and thus learned, by a chance, of his friend's fearful accident and narrow escape from sudden destruction. He had never set eyes on Sarah Pees from the hour of his parting with her at the depot in Cargo, and, of course, not a rumor of the scandal in which his name had so prominently figured ever reached the suburban retreat of the invalid. Much mended in health he returned to Pickatonic and to his wounded, insensible brother, without a suspicion that his fame had so needlessly suffered. 
               And what of Nathan Pees and Sal Volatile? 
               A letter from the former (directed to Father Tom, and remaining a long while unopened by reason of the Master Mechanic's condition), had arrived in good season, announcing his recovery of the truant and his conviction of her innocence, his shame at the painful notoriety the affair had attained, and enclosing a world of most grateful acknowledgements to Livingston for his honorable construction of Mrs. P's. conduct and for friendly encouragement and advice. In his mortification, the poor, foolish husband had crept through Pickatonic at night, seeing no one of consequence, and breathing the bitterest curses imaginable against Mrs. Link for the tortures she had cost him. 
               One of the first facts Ned learned in his convalescing season was that Pees was already at work in the mud-pit again, and that his captured companion now shared the narrow quarters of her "lord" in a migratory "boarding boss car," and "moved" in the very narrow "circles" of Coon Hill. Also reached him the rumor that Skew, wisely warned by Nat Pees' sad experience, threatened seriously the removal of his better half, Pat, to circles deplorably contracted at Mack's Diggins; but she pretended to be too unwell for immediate removal, and thereby secured a brief respite which was marked by discreetness on the part of "the doomed," and by unprecedented watchfulness on the part of the grim Lady Abbess and her angular favorite, Link. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               FLAWS IN A FINE PIECE OF WORK.-A CONDUCTOR'S CONFESSION. 
               Ned Livingston was now so much better as to sit in an easy-chair close to the muslin-hung window that looked out on the bluff. It was evening, and the patches of red light were thick on the walls, and the gay, gilded foliage was waving again on the bluff-side, with birds softly chirping among it and catching bright gleams of its glory on their plumage. It was much such a soft, dreamy twilight as that to which Livingston had awakened on first being brought to the cottage, though autumn had entered on its reign. He had been idly turning over the leaves of Jack Howland's large album, and relieving his loneliness-he was once left alone, for a wonder-by a study of its numerous photographic faces. It was not new to him, for he had fumbled it many a time during his wearisome confinement; but now he was startled to find that the space which his own face had occupied, in the form of a Carbutt vignette, given his old dancing friend long before, was vacant. Revolving in his mind the strange circumstance, and wondering who could have removed it, and how he should replace it before the loss was discovered by the household, his reveries were broken by the hurried and unannounced entrance of Charley Lamble. The young Conductor took a seat on a hassock at Ned's feet, and turning his face quite away from any questioning glances of his friend, said abruptly: 
               "Neddy, I go back to my regular duties to-morrow, and the time has arrived when I must force on your confidence a history of my hitherto miserable life. You have never asked it, and you might never do so, content, in your generous way to love on without question and without doubt. But I feel myself guilty so long as the secrets of my past are kept from you; and to tell my misfortunes-my crimes-will be something thing of a relief. So listen. And if you learn to love me less through a hearing of the truth, at least give me credit for not wishing to hold on to your friendship, high as I value it above most men's regard, by any mean system of false pretences. Neddy, will you hear me with patience?" 
               "Assuredly, if you wish it," the Secretary answered. "But do not feel forced to any unpleasant revelations; and, above all, do not think I can be any less your true friend for that which has been. Whatever of evil your history contains touches not our friendship, which is a thing of the present and the future and not of the past. I care for you for what you are, not what you were." 
               "Your regard may be founded on what I now seem," argued Charley. "And, Neddy, there are sins which pollute and contaminate a man's whole after-life, refusing to ever be quite purged away. Such are mine. Mentally atoned for, perhaps, by the bitterest torture one's soul can endure, and continue to exist; materially atoned for, so far as labor and lucre can amend them, by a strict restoration of that which was wrongfully taken; but the blemish remains; and men find it out; and then, down comes the heel of humanity on the neck of the offender. I may be morbid on this subject; I may be foolish to risk alienating from me my last and best friend, by rehearsing the scenes of a melancholy drama in which I play a most dishonorable part; but I have set myself the task, and the lines must be spoken. I will make the play brief, for the pain of its recital will be stinging though a trifle less agonizing than of old." 
               "I listen," remarked Livingston, as the other seemed to hesitate-"I listen, and I promise for the integrity of my allegiance, whatever the ghosts of your narrative." 
               "You may well call them ghosts," resumed the other; "they have haunted me, daily and nightly, for two wretched years. But what do you say, Edward Livingston, to a friend who is a gambler, a drunkard, and-a thief?" 
               "I would not hear another speak thus of you, Charley," the Secretary said, reproachfully. "This is a sorry sort of jesting." 
               "It is not a jest," the Conductor remarked, with a faltering voice, the hot fire of shame burning crimson on his smooth, beardless face. "Alas! it is far from a jest, and if another had said it, he would have told but the truth. You now know the worst. Will you hear how it all came about?" 
               "I will hear, but I can scarcely believe," said Ned Livingston. 
               Lamble hurried through his history thus: 
               "My earlier years are scarcely of consequence. They were passed with the family of an uncle in the city of Brooklyn, for both parents died in my infancy. My uncle was conspicuous in New York and New England railway affairs during my youth, but the misfortunes of those trying times carried him under, financially, and the wreck which lost him his large property turned the current of all destinies connected there-with. I was at college, winning honors at old Union, and having before me a prospect as bright as a young heart could wish. Perhaps, I was not remarkably ambitious for scholarly accomplishments, but learning had come easy to me, and a taste of distinction and success is a wonderful promoter of industry and perseverance, as you know. I was sorry, therefore, when the needful recall cut short my brief, creditable career, and made me a toiler among men at an age unexpectedly early. My loving old relation retired to the country to hide his humiliation and mourn the defeat of his hopes, while I was secured a situation in the office of a railroad superintendent in Albany. This gentleman had been my uncle's, fast friend, and he received me with all my unfitness, ignoance of business and lack of practical experience, as a particular personal favor. Poor as was this position, and small as was its compensation, both would have improved and led, in good time, to fortune and distinction had I not taken a fancy to the more active features of railroading, and lost every interest in the limited field which confinement to an office presented. I secured, without dificulty, a transfer to the passenger department, and in spite of my youth and a frame very far from robust, succeeded in 'managing' the various and sometimes herculean labors of a baggage car to satisfaction. Exercise, excitement, constant change of scene and a free and easy association with spirits congenial, bettered my health, which had never been strong, and gradually reconciled me completely to a severance from the old professional career I had once longed for so earnestly, and later lamented the loss of so sadly. I was faithful and steady, and made no mistakes, which circumstances were about to be rewarded with an important promotion when a change in the directors of the road dashed my high hopes to earth. A change of directors brought a change of officials, and among those resigning to escape a removal, was my patron, the friend of my uncle, the good Superintendent. This is the great curse of railroading in the United States. A change at headquarters, however indifferent, is very apt to be felt throughout every ramification of the operative department, and the poor pilgrim, mounting bravely through obstacles towards some promised position in the future, is paralyzed and disheartened, oftentimes, by finding the place he was aiming at, and for which he was confidently waiting, filled by some favorite of an incoming official, and lost, perhaps, just when it seems most secure. It is not for me to say this is wrong. It is inevitable and universal, and one of the possible, impending disappointments which every railroader must encounter. No life in the world like a life on the rails, I sincerely believe; but it is of the earth after all, and the mould of mortality attaches thereto, as it must, in a certain degree, to whatever is terrestrial. Well, I lost my first chance to assume the much-coveted badge of a passenger conductor, and disgusted and discouraged, resigned. This was wrong. It is better to hold fast to what one has and be thankful if official revolutions do not involve one's discharge, or a 'left-handed promotion,' as the boys call a set back. But I was a boy, and felt piqued and revengeful, so I threw away all I had gained on the Albany road, and went wandering about on a search for employment. The fallacy, however, which misled me and made me believe that on some other of the country's great routes I should be able to step into a situation fully equal to the one I had lost, soon faded and vanished amid the defeat of innumerable efforts to secure such a place. I found that all other roads, with a justice I now can applaud, declined to jump their good, long-tried men, who were faithfully working for advancement, and put in, as conductor, a stranger, from another wholly different line, who had never even attained the elevation demanded in previous service. So with another lesson added to my fast accumulating knowledge of life on an American railway, I renewed my acquaintance with 'running on the rails' in the character of Passenger Brakeman. I thought it degrading in another sense than retrograding; but I am happy to have had the experience which this season of my railroad career so bountifully afforded. I learned, as a Brakemen, the most that I know of the business of railroading, and though it was a hard life, full of danger, exposure and abuse, and a poorly appreciated one, at the best, I managed to enjoy it and make some good friends among the tribe-who are friends to this day-many of them now far ahead of me in rank, but even the humblest a match for the best men of earth. Remembering the Brakeman of my time, on the great B. & O. R. R., and recalling their tiresome, ungrateful, illy-compensated services, I cannot but wonder at their faithfulness, endurance and perseverance. If I were not such a sorry example of how low it is possible for a railroader to fall, I should believe there was something, of necessity, ennobling and elevating about the associations and occupations of railroad life. Perhaps, there is, after all, and I am but the exception which proves the rule. At all events, these worthy young fellows who were my companions on the B. & O., clung to the road with a fondness unparalleled by the liking of men for any other business, and suffered and struggled onward with a faith and determination no other employment inspires. What is the strange secret of this lover-like devotion to work on the railroad? But I must not be loitering. I passed, in good time, through various vicissitudes, the most trying and tedious, perhaps, those which were linked with a half year's experience as way-freight Conductor on a division of the road having its terminus at Baltimore. At last, when long service and perfect familiarity with the route had fitted me properly for promotion, I reached the much coveted position of Passenger Conductor. At first I was extra, but a lucky chance gave me a regular train very soon, and the cup of my ambition was full. I was now twenty-three; but too young to have higher aspirations for a while, and, indeed was, an object of envy, already, as the youngest Conductor on the road. Nothing in the immediate future held any incentives to ambition any longer, so I gave myself up to an enjoyment of life as it presents itself to a young, pleasure-loving man in a gay, populous city. Not neglecting my work, by any means, which was wearisome enough, at the best, but inclined to every folly and extravagance, and given to wasting, in trifling pursuits, the unemployed hours of my existence, instead of seeking the rest that was needful. There were no restraining influences of home to hold me back, and having only myself to look after, and no disposition to save money, my salary was ample for a life of such comfort as would now seem like luxury. I was welcome as a guest at the finest hotel, with the politest attentions from proprietors and clerks, and at rates merely nominal. It was a custom of the times, which is not obsolete yet, to assiduously court favor with Conductors, and win their patronage by means of small charges, in the hope of attracting the traveling public through their means. No first-class Conductor, of course, condescends to become runner for a hotel; but the fact of his living at any given house, is accepted, generally, as an evidence of its excellence, and he need not conceal where he stops. It is useless to inquire of one of these gentlemen 'where is the best place to put up,' at either terminus of his run. He will give you a list of all the public houses in town. But ask where he lives, and if he has not advanced to the dignity of a house, and a home of his own, it will always be safe to follow him to his lodgings, assured of best the that the country affords. You know all these things, Neddy, I suppose; but I want to impress on your mind that my position was such that I lived within the limits of my means, in spite of living 'fast,' as you, perhaps, would call it. Salaries were liberal on the B. & O. Railway, and living thus cheaply, and never having yet fallen into the folly of drinking, or the infatuation of gambling, there was money to spare for such other amusements as I fancied. I was fond of fine clothes and dressed elegantly. I was fond of the opera and the theatre, and haunted the boxes and the green-room constantly. I was fond of society, and visited considerably in those circles of the gay. Southern city from which railroaders were not excluded, for some fancied inferiority. This ostracism of society is a mystery to me still. I claim nothing for myself, for I am unworthy of any recognition whatever from honorable people. But as most of our great railway officials, who are courted, and followed, and looked up to by the world are only a lot of fortunate 'graduated Conductors,' with the same blood in their veins, the same brains in their heads, the same principles and emotions in their hearts as when holding the lower position, it is curious that the class of which I am an unworthy member should be sneered at and looked down upon as they are by the world. The fact is not universal-we all know exceptions-but it is general enough to be construed as a rule. 
               "I had never a temptation to deal otherwise than honestly with the large sums of money which passed through my hands to the treasury of the Company, and, for a while, would have scorned any suggestion that the handling of some even greater, and more easily embezzled without fear of detection, could constitute, in any degree, a temptation. But even while I fancied myself peculiarly secure, fate was busy preparing the scenes and setting the stage for an act in the drama of my life on which the curtain of oblivion refuses to fall, and which the foot-lights of remembrance keep ever in view. See, how I fall into the parlance of the stage as I approach this dread epoch of my career. I fell from my high pedestal of honor and sacrificed everything for a woman. The leader of the great opera ballet, the premier danseuse of the season was a beautiful Spanish girl, whom-." 
               "Gods!" cried the Secretary, startled to an extent which alarmed Charley Lamble for an instant-"quick, her name, her name, what was the Spanish girl's name?" 
               "She called herself Orlena Galliomi," replied the Conductor; "but why do you ask? Is it possible you can have seen her, or known her?" 
               "No, no, not that," returned the other, recalling the story of Lara Monteno, as little Frank Weston had told it. "I knew of such a woman, an actress; but the name was not that you have given. Pray go on." 
               "Well," resumed Lamble, "I fell fatally in love with Orlena. She was dazzlingly lovely, not only on the stage but in private, and reigned like a queen in a certain bohemian circle of Baltimore, which is none the less brilliant that its existence is scarcely suspected by the good, pious people in whose midst it revolves. I tell into her clutches (for nothing made human was ever so beautiful and so tigerish as this girl,) through an acquaintance with some actors, and the mysterious regions, of a theatre, which lie beyond the proscenium and curtain, became ground most familiar, and truly enchanted, for my wandering feet. I was credited with good looks before remorse, and the tortures of a heart wrong with passion, deceit and despair, had destroyed me. The girl must have fancied me, of course she never loved, and from the first of our meeting I seem to have been selected as her victim and her dupe. I did not know it at the time, but to have a clear field for her trifling with me, she discarded a lover with whom she had fled from Philadelphia. Easy was the descent down which I was led, so bewildered and infatuated, that my course appeared tending ever upwards, instead of downwards; and my love for the woman became an idolatry. First love is much laughed at and belittled. When it comes to the youth of twenty-three, who has never gone through the heart wastings, which so many men experience before reaching this age, it is far from a trigle. I was the slave of Orlena Galliomi for thirteen long months, the last of which seem, to my remorseful retrospection, dark ages instead. Commencing with charming little suppers in her elegant apartments at the hotel, she taught me the witchery of wine, and laid the foundation of a fondness for intoxicating, drink, which I master even now with the utmost of difficulty, and which sometimes overpowers me in spite of myself. If I am not an habitual drunkard it is so through no mercy of the woman I loved. She drank little herself. She was far too well trained and cautious in all her indulgences to endanger her beauty by unwarranted excesses. But wine was a means which she used for her ends; and her ends were a total destruction of poor human hearts. She brought me in contact with brilliant and wealthy acquaintances, and I have never ceased to wonder that one of these richer and worthier objects had not won her destructive attentions. But I suppose her attachment to me was one of a woman's strange whims, or odd fancies, which engrossed for a time all her limited stock of regard. So long as I was in favor, the others escaped. These sports of the city, these fast men of means, were all given to gambling. In time I became one of them, and their ways became my ways; and then it was that my purse which had seemed ample for abundant enjoyment in all previous dissipation, grew slender and mean by comparison. I played and won heavily as novices almost invariably do, on the principle of 'a fool for luck, etc.'; but when the tide turned, as it is fatally certain to do very soon, no matter how wisely the victim determines on escaping the hour of defeat by a judicious retreat-then came the tempter and then I fell. Orlena knew my pecuniary circumstances perfectly, yet she incessantly borrowed large sums from me, (you know what a fast woman's borrowing is,) even when she knew that neither honest earnings, in business, nor questionable winnings, at the gambling table, together could suffice for her demands. She sneered at the idea of a Conductor being limited in means, and flashed her black eyes at me so reproachfully and ensnaringly, when I plead inability to purchase some jewel she fancied, that I would go forth insanely determined to realize her wishes whatever the cost. Thus she drove me deliberately and intentionally to steal. Heavy losses at play, the reckless extravagance of a life governed only by the impulses of semi-intoxication, and the Spanish girl's ever increasing demands, combined to involve me beyond extrication. I say, beyond extrication, because the Company's money first taken by me was abstracted from the large sums I handled with a positive intention to regard it as a loan-a loan most sacred, and one to be speedily replaced from my earliest gains. All thieves, I suppose, begin thus as a clever sort of compromise with conscience. But the gains did not come, and my descent in degradation to a point of discovery was rapid and desperate. When the crash came I had given my heart, my soul, my honor and my purse to Orlena Galliomi; and I was ruined in health, a drunkard, a gambler beyond any hope of reclaim, and a fallen, disgraced, dishonest man. So much this woman accomplished towards my utter destruction of body and soul. But at least she stuck by me in my hour of great trouble, you will say. Not so. When immediate discharge left me penniless and stranded, (a merciful Superintendent, to whom all was confessed, saved me from shameful confinement-perhaps saved me from death or a total abandonment of myself to the demon), when striken with sickness and sorrow, and desertion by friends and by fortune, the past turned to waste, the present a hell, and the future a blank; then, the beautiful Spaniard turned from me, with coldness and scorn, and through fear of becoming involved in my guilt and anticipated punishment, fled from my pleading arms, outstretched in confidence, hope, and a love that had proved its deep power, and fled to New York in the company of another." 
               The recollection of these accumulated miseries was overpowering to Lamble, and he bowed his fine face in his hands with a shudder it was painful to see. Livingston uttered not a word. He could not find solace for such remorse, such sorrow. The storm must be left to exhaust itself fully, if one would have lasting tranquility. But Ned put his hand reassuringly on Charley's bowed head, and stroked the soft locks clustered there, with a silent, sympathetic sort of soothing, such as a parent might have given, and a loving child received. 
               There followed a pause which was long and most painful to both. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               DEFECTIVE POINTS POLISHED AND BLEMISHES BEAUTIFIED. 
               At last Charley Lamble resumed: "It is so difficult to call up with calmness this particular time, that you cannot think strange of my long hesitation to speak. I know not what kept me from becoming a great rascal, in my season of prostration which followed desertion, alienation, poverty and disgrace. But some angel, unseen, helped me through, and enabled me finally, by flying from danger and temptation, to escape the absorbing, overwhelming fascination for play which outlived my wrecked heart, my lost fame and shattered constitution. There is no sin so hard to break loose from as gambling. O, Neddy, may you never feel its resistless enchantment! Shun it, my friend, as you would shun the contagion of a loathsome disease. This passion is acknowledged one of the strongest of the weak human heart. One mystery of its terrible power lies, perhaps, in its solitary and secret character. Except in the gambling house the gambler likes to be alone; alone with his visions of wealth, or alone with his despair-as the lover with his happy or betrayed mistress, as the drunkard with his fantastic dreams, with his madness or degradations; like the miser with his treasures, with his delights and fears. Like avarice, this vice almost places the tried human heart beyond the other miseries of life; the gambler and the miser live on chimeras, their pleasure is the only one which fears no saticty; their unmixed passion is always awake. In the course of my life, though it has not been long, I have been called to console (and thus learned to comprehend) a great many sorrows; but while the joy and excitement of winning are supreme, I have never seen anguish more poignant than that of the player who has lost. I dwell upon this terrible evil because, my dear Neddy, it is the one which has most stubbornly outlived all my efforts at reform. 
                
               "I try not to linger or be wearisome, but I want you to know me, as I am and then, if you find in my mad, great, first love, and the insanity of drink, some shadow of excuse for my erring, it must come to you in spite of the worst that can be told. I am going to have your friendship and comfort and encouragement and help in the face of my unworthiness, and hold you in my poor tortured heart as the truest and best of all friends I have had in the world; or I will have you give me up, proclaim my disgrace and cast me back on myself to believe in humanity never again But I rave. While my fate yet hung trembling in the balance at Baltimore, and it was a question, brought squarely before my calm reason again and again, whether my course for the future should be upward or downward-whether it could have a rise from such utter debasement or, whether I must really go quite to the bad, I heard of John Wynworth and his position on this road. He had been a Conductor on the Albany route where I served as baggageman so long, and we were friends through the time of my service-such friends as a boy about twenty and a man over forty may occasionally become. He got to be Trainmaster before I left the road, and his great popularity and excellent training were promising further advancement, when, in anger and disappointment, I quitted the scene of my earliest railroading. Mean-while he had advanced, step by step, until the prudent and appreciative directors of the Lamoyelle line secured him as General Superintendent on this new road just opening for trade. I came to him and told him my story without reservation, asking for the humblest position he could bestow, and promising only to try-to try earnestly, faithfully and unceasingly to live down and wash out the great blemish on my character. I knew my humanity, I trusted not to any certainty of success; but I promised to make a strong effort, if mercifully put to the test, and abide by the consequences. John Wynworth is a rough manager in some of of his ways, and is far from disposed to adhere to stale precedents, or be fettered by conventionalisms in his operation of the road; but he is a sternly just man, and therefore he hesitated before responding to my appeal Ultimately he said, 'Your frankness is most honorable, and shows strength of mind, and I believe you are better to be trusted than many a weak man untried. A lesson of the past, well profited by, is more of a safeguard against error than a volume of good resolutions for the future by youth and inexperience. You are young, but I think I understand your disposition thoroughly and my inclination is to trust you. You shall begin with a train just as soon as you know the route well enough to take charge. Bear in mind, my dear boy, that my judgment and discretion are involved in your failure or success. Let this strengthen you in determined resistance, if temptation arises again.' 
               "Neddy, I have been true to that man. He saved me, and a recollection of his confidence and trust, when so few would have answered my pleading with anything other than scorn and derision-a remembrance of his fatherly forgiveness, affection and faith, has made me iron amid the seductions to transgression with which this life abounds. 
               "Once or twice I have drank to excess-once or twice, under pressure of powerful and peculiarly unavoidable influences, I have gambled; but I have been honest, Neddy, scrupulously and steadfastly honest. 
               "Now you know why I have found it impossible to live at Salell, or establish headquarters at the actual end of the route. Salell is a city of gamblers and drunkards, and I could not live safely amid scenes where these great sins are openly flourishing. 
               "But even had gambling been out of the question entirely, the custom of drinking which prevails, so universally, in that fast, famous town, would have driven me to Pickatonic for safety. The absurdity of our national custom of 'treating' in public saloons, never struck me so forcibly as it did through my first weeks of struggle and resistance at Salell. This is mostly a selfish performance, Neddy, much as is said of it, as an illustration of American liberality, good-fellowship, free-heartedness, and all that. I have seen through its flimsy disguise of cordiality and fathomed its shallowness so often, during my temporary impecuniosity, that the delusion has vanished. If you put yourself in the way of a lot of drinking fellows, or chance leads you across their path, they are sure to press their hospitality and invitations upon you, affect to feel hurt at your refusal to join them, or drag you by entreaty or force into reluctant participation; and then, if you do not quickly return the poor compliment, which was seriously declined and never desired. no sooner are you gone than they brand you as selfish or mean, a 'sponge' or a 'dead beat.' Or possibly, when quite lost to decency in lower degrees of intemperance, they will fall to extolling their own prosperity and generosity, in your presence; proclaim their ability to 'keep their ends even' with anybody; brag of their superior independence, etc., etc. I do not, of course, know that such things were said often of me, though I furnished abundance of cause for a while; but I often heard other fellows-amiable, sociable and kindly-disposed-much wronged by 'the society of treaters,' and all because they had not the means to throw away, like their companions, and could not, without rudeness, escape the favors thrust on them. The system is all a sham and a humbug, and the sooner we copy the custom of Europeans, in this matter, the sooner we shall discover what mischievous manufactories of cheap popularity, and pretended generosity, are the bar-rooms of the Union, and what a burlesque are the deceptive, misleading courtesies current therein. This knowledge, most bitterly learned, was enough to have driven me unceremoniously out of a society where such humiliations were possible. I thank them, Neddy, for they have given me peace, they have given me power to triumph over evil inclinations, almost always; they have given me you. Now, the worst has been told, but some recent events must be added to complete my poor history. For nearly two years, I have taken from my salary only enough money for such simple necessities of life as this humble locality requires, and, month after month, I have been steadily repaying the funds which were insanely withheld from the railway at Baltimore. It has not been easy, and I often have suffered, not only in character as a miser, a recluse and a victim of selfishness and conceit, but often in body for the want of such clothing as the season demanded, and such delicacies of food as my broken health required. However, it's all over now. On my recent trip up to the city I deposited the last hundred dollars, to balance my account with the railway, and its generous Superintendent-who declined prosecution at the time of my crime, and saved me from imprisonment and everlasting shame, has helped me to secretly replace the sum stolen. So few are the wiser, and I feel myself freer and happier than since my deplorable downfall. Not that I am less guilty, for that stain endures; but a load has lifted from my shoulders, and having conquered my wild, wasting love for Orlena Galliomi, I may yet hope to conquer the demons of gaming and drink, which she planted insidiously in my breast. 
               "Neddy, you know it ail, now-the error and the pain, the sin and the sorrow, the terrible wrong and the attempted atonement. In the face of these things it remains for you, now, to decide what shall be our relations in the future. I have liked you from the first of our acquaintance, but since hearing how you defended me in my absence, how you bravely stood by me, trustful, considerate, generous and kind, through the wild storm of scandal, which appearances certainly warranted, I have felt for you more than an ordinary friendship. If it were not so, this record of my ruined life had not been thrust before your eyes. I have seen that you cared for me, I have learned how you trusted me, and I could no longer deceive you as to the character of the friend whom you loved so unselfishly, and whom you believed in so implicitly. Has your love survived the shock of this sad revelation? Am I forgiven? Must we part? These are the questions awaiting your answer." 
               Ned Livingston, in his weakness, was moved by this tale beyond what a man in full strength might be willing to show. He could not immediately reply, but sat leaning back in his chair, with one hand spread before his white face and the other clasped tight by Charley Lamble, who grasped it, convulsively, with both his own, as if it were a plank which might drift beyond reach, and leave him to go down in life's sea without rescue. Presently Livingston spoke with forced cheerfulness, but with manly sincerity: 
               "Charley, if your story makes any alteration in my brotherly affection for you, it is not in the way of diminishing. If I thought any increase were possible I should say that your terrible sufferings and prolonged, patient struggle would draw me still closer in sympathy and amity to your side. As to forgiveness, I cannot forgive you, my dear Lamble, for, personally, I have nothing to forgive. Those most concerned with the wrong you once did have extended you pardon, and the wrong has been remedied to their satisfaction. God would seem to approve both the forgiveness and the reparation, since He has smiled on your efforts. What should other assurance be worth if added to those? And as to our parting, we'll not talk about it just now, if you please. If I weary of your friendship, some time in the future, information of the fact will be quickly communicated; but that time is not now." 
               With one grateful pressure of his sick friend's thin hand, Charley Lamble arose and went out without speaking. He needed a season of undisturbed solitude for a recovery of his customary calmness. And Livingston was glad at that moment to be left to himself. He wanted some moments of quieting reflection, for a sudden revelation of these flaws and defects in the past life of his favorite had been a great shock to his fine sensibilities, beautiful as the blemishes had become, through atonement, and fully as he believed the faults and defects of an earlier day had been remedied by continual mending and polishing. 
               "It does not seem quite correct, morally, to like a man better for his having been bad," Ned announced to himself; but man is a mystery at best, and his impulses often beyond human knowledge." He uttered this so grandly and solemnly that it would have sounded to a listener like the official announcement of an amendment to the Constitution. Then he wiped his nose in a sentimental, congressional manner, quite in keeping with the amendment; and wearily turning his face to the window, now curtained without by the deepening shadows of night, he courted the soothing of sleep. And into the realms of "tired nature's sweet restorer" one positive conviction accompanied him. His review of Lamble's romance followed on into dreamland, and he was certain that Lara Monteno and Orlena Galliomi were one. And while he thus dozed in his chair by the window 
                      
                        "Night let her sable curtain down, 
                        And pinned it with a star." 
                     
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               A GREAT BORE BLOWN UP-A SUDDEN DESCENT OF DIRECTORS. 
               The autumn drifted on and November was at hand. Ned Livingston was again at his duties in the little yellow office, and as old Father Tom appeared better-much better, something like its lost air of cheerfulness returned; the clouds which had hung so threateningly above it seemed breaking away, once again, and the smeared yellow kitten could be credited with an air of activity and gaiety to which it had long been a stranger. 
               One fine afternoon, towards the close of October, when the shadows deepened earlier and the night came more quickly, Ned was having a scene with Cushing Borie over a ferry boat account. That individual's charge for every employe's passage over the bridge had been reluctantly allowed, even including the items for Engineer, Fireman and Brakeman on the bottom, whose business called them frequently part way across the river, though seldom entirely; but certain entries for railroad men risking their necks, by a Blondin-like crossing on foot, in spite of the ferryman's obstructions, were firmly disputed. The count of his tickets, supposed to be furnished in packages of one hundred each, had, besides, been declared incorrect, and cross-questioning had developed the fact of his lazy, preposterous habit of weighing the green, five-cent cards, instead of employing the more laborious method of going over them, one by one, carefully. A great laugh was raised against the bore at this revelation, for his tickets being cheap in material, scarcely two having surface or thickness alike, the weighing of them out as if they had been potatoes, (and they were dirty enough to be) and the stupid belief that if one lot of a hundred weighed just eleven ounces, all lots weighing the same must, of course, contain a hundred, was so characteristic of the boatman, and so illustrative of the character of many of the creatures the office had dealings with throughout its existence, that even by-standers and loungers were intensely amused. 
               On the top of Mr. Borie's outrageous demand for extra crossers of his ferry, and for tickets which, in the aggregate, were short in his avoirdupoised packages, came a modest request for a free pass to Bloom and return. The cool extortionist was refused this last favor with a brevity and want of ceremony peculiar to Jerkman in an intense state of bile. It quite staggered the irrepressible who was swearing he would transfer his appeal to Mr. Wynworth, or "sue the dang Coe right smart," when John Wynworth appeared unexpectedly on the scene. His coming was a signal for great commotion, as he was the bearer of intelligence that all the directors of the Lamoyelle line were dining at Salell, and would be over, in the cool of the evening, for a look into Pickatonic affairs previous to an inspection of matters down the road. This impending catastrophe announced, and the customary greetings exchanged, Borie opened the subject of a pass to Superintendent Wynworth. That official, as was intimated by Lamble in his narrative, had manners peculiarly rough, upon occasion, in spite of his natural inclinings to justice and generosity; and this being a time of unusual vexations no porcupine ever so bristled with points as did he. Knowing well all the petty and persistent meannesses of Borie, since getting a hold on the Company, and familiar with his exactions and extortions, he would scarcely have listened with patience to the ferryman's appeal, under any circumstances; but, annoyed as he was by prolonged attendance on the grumbling, growling, revolutionary eastern capitalists, who composed his choice party of directors, his unchristian transformation into a hedge-hog rendered it a peculiarly unfortunate moment for Borie to increase the irritation of so dangerous an animal. "A pass," echoed the profane Superintendent-"a pass? On what grounds do you base such a d--d impudent request?" 
               "Wall ye see, Boss, I reckon I'm a right smart chance of a railroad man sense the Coe--." 
               The irrepressible's elaboration of his claims was interrupted by an explosion of denunciation and a hot fire of epithets in which there were dams enough to have checked the flow of the Mississippi, and so sudden and severe was the demonstration that the veteran boatman turned livid with rage and stood, stricken speechless, with his huge mouth wide open and his watery eyes (how natural for a ferryman to have watery eyes) projecting like two stalks of asparagus moistened with dew. 
               It was evident the directors had been finding unreasonable fault, and advising all sorts of impossible and impracticable things to the Superintendent. It is sometimes about all they accomplish by an official trip of inspection. 
               When the first storm was spent and Wynworth had paused long enough to recover his breath, he resumed: 
               "Now, Borie, get out. We shall soon be rid of you permanently, thank God; but I'm sick of the sight of your d--d stupid face. What the law may be fool enough to give you you'll get out of me-nothing more, by the eternal thunderbolts of Jove! Such presumption, impertinence and cool audacity I'll swear I never met. Go, I say, and if sometime I get to be the Superintendent of a railway to hell, just call on me and I'll furnish you a pass with the greatest of pleasure. You shall have the first ride. Until then don't bother me. The world and the devil shouldn't move me to help such a scoundrel as you if I could do it easier than not. So ask me no more. I am as firm as a rock." 
               The ferryman seemed convinced of this latter geological fact, for he started for the scene of his aquatic sports very expeditiously, speechless with indignation and disappointment, and cudgelling his exasperated brains for new schemes for the pecuniary bleeding of the "Coe." And, indeed, in that moment of anger and denunciation, Wynworth looked like a rock-like some hard granite boulder carved out in the form of a man, and just as unyielding, unimpressionable and immovable was this sternest of railway officials. He gave Borie only his deserts. Presently appeared the directors, a little disposed to be cross and critical, as old Hardy's dinner and wines were not calculated to promote amiability, or tickle such dainty palates; and the party was not a little "blowed" from an ascent of me steep plane, on foot. Of course, no one rode up or down, since the Secretary's disaster, though the rope was even stronger, by mending, than it had been for weeks before the break. 
               It was yet early in the evening when these great people arrived; but, for esthetical effect, both Jerkman and Livingston had distributed numerous lights about the office, closed the blinds tightly and added some useful sitting-down furniture, borrowed from the convent. This gave an air of greater comfort and seclusion to the room, which it was hoped would have a tranquilizing effect on the Hon. John Wolverton Wesley and his companions. Little Frank's heartless parent had recently been elected to the office of President of the Lamoyelle R. R. Company, and Livingston had noticed the fact in newspaper reports of the election at Cargo; but never found a moment of privacy in which to communicate the intelligence to the President's son, or inquire if he was aware of it. Mr. Wynworth, clearing up into brightness and freshness, like the atmosphere after a thunder-storm, was a much improved being for his introductory tempest, and it pleased him to smile very graciously on the prompt and effective measures, which the Paymaster and his lieutenant inaugurated, for a becoming reception to guests so distinguished. They had a stormy session of an hour or two, which, perhaps, was not meant to be particularly private, but from which both Jerkman and Ned Livingston absented themselves on the general principle that it is wisest not to thrust one's head needlessly into a cross lion's jaws. This is a simple zoological bit of knowledge which they had arrived at through sundry bad wounds, from the animal's teeth, called experiences. There was no chance for the customary convention on the platform and steps that cool autumn evening, so the Paymaster went down to Beliful's Station Agent quarters, at the freight house, and smoked his old pipe with such fury as he went, that Ned, who looked after, mentally compared him to a detached locomotive smock-stack, gliding down the track by the aid of invisible machinery. When this dark object and its vaporous surroundings had quite disappeared, towards the bluff, Ned thought he would go up to Father Tom's lonely room and give the good Master Mechanic a humorous description of the royal personages assembled beneath him. The poor old man lay very helpless on his bed, and his serious indisposition, though bodily painless, hung heavy on his mind. In order to reach the solitary, dispirited victim of paralysis, who anxiously waited a possible second attack which should end the sad tragedy commenced on the "Fire-Fly," long years before, Ned Livingston had need to go round to the rear of the office, to avoid passing through the accumulated wisdom and wealth which deliberated within. 
               The slats of a blind at the back of the "kitten" appeared to be open, as the Secretary made his way round through bushes and briars, and a closer inspection revealed to him the figure of a small human being, who had leaned a great pole against the window and climbed to its upper extremity for the purpose of looking in on the group of directors. It proved, on a closer inspection, to be little Frank, as Ned half suspected, for only such a monkey could reach the inconvenient elevation by a method so primitive. For the rear of the office rested just on the edge of a ravine and a rough wall of rock rendered access to its windows apparently impracticable. As quietly as possible Livingston mounted the steep, outside steps, which led first to a level with the building's main floor, and then by an angle to a landing before Father Tom's door. So absorbed was the diminutive clown, with the study of the scene he now freely overlooked, while remaining invisible himself, that he was not disturbed by the Secretary's approach, nor by his ascent of the stairway. The face of a man who seemed to preside at the meeting and who looked very care-worn and solemn and stern, had enchained little Frank's deep attention. It was not of the class of kindly old faces such as we love to remember and look back upon, the venerable faces of our nearest and dearest, the authors of our being; but the exiled and homeless young fellow knew well that he was looking in on the features of his pitiless father, whose cruelty had driven him out to an interminable exile from home. What he saw, or what were his reflections, no other than himself ever knew; but when Livingston came down from his visit to Father Tom, little Frank sat, bent double, at the foot of the stairs, sobbing convulsively, in a way in which men seldom weep. The active little Fireman started up, as his good friend approached, and fearing his emotion had already been observed, said impulsively through tears: 
               "I've been having a peep at the governor, Liv.; and the old fellow looks rough-devilish rough." 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "Why, worn-out like. I remember him without a gray hair, and as straight as a piston-rod. Now he looks withered, and bent and bald and grizzled. There is something besides age in his face, too. Can it be the old codger has suffered remorse, or been sorry for my loss?" 
               "Undoubtedly," Livingston declared. "The man must be human, after all." 
               "If there's anything gentle or feeling about him, it has found its way through his skin recently," and little Frank spoke the words bitterly. "I should scarcely have known him except for the fire of his eye, which nothing appears able to quench, and an autocratic wave of the imperial fore-finger which always accompanies his delivery of opinions. I should not have recognized my proud, harsh father, in the gray, shrunken, sorrowful President who is presiding within." 
               "Time has done much to disfigure him, certainly," suggested the Secretary; "I noticed it at once though I never saw him before. But you are right in the belief that something other than mere passing years, has been working his decay. There are traces of suffering in the poor old man's features such as come not of time nor of bodily disease. Have you no pity for the wrecked, childless parent?" 
               Frank was silent a moment and his companion hoped earnestly, some relenting on the young fellow's part might lead to an opening by which the two long estranged hearts could "meet again as parted streams and mingle as of old." He so longed for a reconciliation between this father and son, for he appreciated the good that was in little Frank and respected and admired him for coming out of the maelstrom of life with a soul unpolluted, and impulses so kindly and noble. Ned had not a doubt but that President Wesley would gladly receive back his boy to be the prop and companion of his fast declining years; and then what a possible future would lie before the ex-clown of the Alhambra! But the hope which was awakened soon died when Frank spoke: 
               "Pity him? yes; love him? no. You see Liv., it isn't as if I had been fond of the governor in my childhood and had parted with him in a momentary pet. There is no chance for a revival of affection in my heart, since there is none there to revive. We are better apart, and I am happier in my humble position, slowly working my way to independence, than I could be in any new life, for which I am unfitted by years of separation." 
               "I fear there is one stubborn spot in your heart, little man, that you hold out so obstinately against your own father." 
               "Not so, Liv., my good faithful Liv., I am as yielding as you please; only in this I know best. I lived thirteen years as the slave of a man without a soul, and I want to be free through the rest of my life. Do you blame me?" 
               "I do not blame, but I wonder at you. You are not unfeeling, else why such emotion as I witnessed just now? But you make yourself seem unforgiving and heartless." 
               "I am neither, dear boy," said the Fireman, removing all traces of tears with his coarse jacket sleeve; "and as for the whimpering, I hoped you hadn't noticed it. Don't speak of my weakness again, if you please, I would not be thought a soft fool. And I did not cry for him-not for him." 
               The voice sounded very much as if tears were approaching again, but the agile young monkey seized his pole from against the office window, and planting one end at the foot of a brush covered bank, close at hand, swung himself clear out of the ravine, on to ground which was level with the tracks, and vanished amid shadows and shrubbery, singing plaintively, as he went: 
                  
                      
                        "Let others have castles and palaces grand, 
                        I envy no master or lord of the land, 
                        I'm a gay railroad boy, and no other I'd be 
                        For a life on the rails is the fast life for me. 
                        Hi! Ho! Dashing we go, 
                        For life is so fast on the railroad, ye know." 
                     
                  
                
               It was long after midnight when the conference of directors broke up, and Extract's mixed train was just in. The desire of the distinguished officials to proceed directly to Bloom not having been announced in proper season, there remained no alternative but for Extract to take a dose of "doubling," as well as his customary dose of bitters, and turn back down the road in charge of the royal excursion. It was asking considerable of a man so hard worked as Tad Worry, whose sleep was so limited at the best; but that jolly good fellow never hesitated a moment, and gulping down a swallow of his inevitable mixture, and putting the affairs of the "mixed" into his head Brakeman's hands, he took charge of the extra in waiting, and retraced his wearisome route. 
               "God bless cheerful people-man, woman or child, old or young, illiterate or educated, handsome or homely. Over and above every other social trait stands cheerfulness. What the sun is to nature-what God is to the stricken heart which knows how to lean upon Him-are cheerful persons in the house and by the wayside. They go unobtrusively, unconsciously, about their silent mission, brightening up society around them with the happiness beaming from their faces. We love to sit near them; we love the expression of their eye, the tone of their voice. Little children find them out, oh! so quickly, amid the densest crowd, and passing by the knitted brow and compressed lip, glide near, and laying a confiding little hand on their knee lift their clear young eyes to those loving faces." 
               And such was old Extract-the laughing philosopher of Pickatonic. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               DOWN THE DARK GRADE. 
               Father Tom had been greatly disturbed by the commotion which prevailed during the Directors' consultation, for it was a noisy, inharmonious occasion, having relation to a disposition of Pickatonic materials subsequent to the abandonment now close at hand, and one of the old man's late symptoms had been extreme nervousness, in which all his senses were acutely alive and peculiarly sensitive. Ned Livingston had left him, just previous to the adjournment of the meeting, in a condition which excited some alarm, though want of experience prevented his realizing the danger impending. So when the "extra," with its freight of unamiable royalty, had rattled away in the darkness, poor Extract in command, the Secretary extinguished his lamps and went down to Beliful's office, where, late as it was, a party consisting of the Agent himself, Jerkman, Lamble, and little Frank Weston, awaited a possible promulgation of the fate of Pickatonic. 
               "It's no go," he announced to the curious assemblage; "not a word has leaked out. Mr. Wynworth only said, 'be ready for our return sometime Tuesday,' and off they have gone with none of us the wiser." 
               "Well, let 'em squirm," remarked Jerkman, through clouds of dense smoke. 
               "The bloody crew aven't got a 'eavy hamount of hexecutive talent," suggested the ponderous Station Agent, complaisantly stroking his well-rounded paunch as if it had been a soft, favorite cat. "They 'aven't the Henglish hability for finishing up a bit o' business like that in short horder, ye know, and all that." 
               "The English are best at finishing up bits of beef and old ale in short order, if I remember them well," said little Frank, laughing at the inevitable boast of her majesty's inconvertible subject. 
               "And what do you know about it, impudent whiffet?" 
               "If I ain't much mistaken, I've been there," replied the whiffet, with a sly glance at Livingston. "What part do you hail from?" 
               "From London, of course. It's a 'ard thing to say before Hamericans, but Hengland is the only country in the world were hengineering and hoperating a railway is hunderstood." 
               "So you come from London?" persisted the whiffet, disregarding Mr. Beliful's last modest statement, and maneuvering for a chance to get in a rap where the foreigner should feel it. "Were you employed in railroad operations there?" 
               "'Aven't I been in railway hemploy since before you were born, ye bloody little Yankee." 
               "Not much, 'if the court knows herself,'" returned the Yankee whiffet, good-naturedly, but pushing on for a slash at the Englishman's vanity. "What London line honored itself with the use of your services, Brother Bull?" 
               "I was many years on the South-Western Railway, little numbskull," answered the irritated Beliful, not relishing such a series of questions. 
               Little Frank did not relish the phrenological epithet so he said: 
               "Yes, I think I remember you now. I was myself in the Waterloo Road for a season, and grew familiar with the terminus of your road and its surroundings. That was a rough gang of truckmen you worked with, old cabbage-head." 
               This last was to return the fat Agent's phrenological compliment with an agricultural one. But Beliful expanded with rage, and stroked his swelled stomach reversely, as if irritating the imaginary cat. 
               "Blarst yer heyes," he exclaimed, "do ye mean to hinsinuate that I was a truckman, ye bloody small hanimal?" 
               Without heeding his anger or answering his question, Frank resumed: "I recall your appearance distinctly, come to think of it, and many a lark we have had at the 'Victoria,' laughing over your efforts to trundle big boxes on your truck, with that awful old protuberance in the way. No wonder I failed to remember you at once, I wasn't looking for my inflamed beer bladder to turn up an abuser of American railway officials and systems." 
               The now exasperated agent could endure this no longer. He reached for a ruler of ebony which lay on his desk, and with a motion as swift as his unwieldiness would sanction, swooped down towards the ex-call boy of the Victoria Theatre, Waterloo road. A trick of the stage saved the President's son from a thrashing. He started to run, and as Beliful got near him halted suddenly and made a dive for the shins of his pursuer. This sent the big man sprawling full on his face, and before he could recover himself, the "whiffet," who escaped being crushed by making his way through the Agent's spread legs, was up and away with a laugh and a taunt: 
               "Teach Yankees to run railroads,old truckman!" 
               Jerkman, Lamble and Livingston had prepared to depart when Frank's banter with Beliful commenced, but they lingered about until the climax and went away laughing immoderately, for none of them cherished much love for the Englishman. His sneers at all things not modeled and measured after some ideal Britanic, pattern of his own, rendered this ponderous personage extremely unpopular on the Lamoyelle line. And of late the "worthy prior," as Jerkman would call him, had been accused of neglecting the Lady Abbess, and bestowing attentions on the treacherous Link, which were not repelled by that female's preposterous "man-protector." 
               Jerkman floated away on his ever-attendant, soft, fleecy clouds, towards the convent, and Lamble and the Secretary, who, since the Pees scandal, had slept together in the much-peopled room above the office, made directly for bed. Extract had kindly given up his soft place to the Passenger Conductor, and now took what rest was allowed him on an impromptu couch he constructed each evening, out of the cushions of a passenger coach. 
               Ned listened a moment at Father Tom's door, uncertain whether to step in again and so risk making a disturbance in finding out how the old man was fixed for the night, or trust to his having fallen asleep since a restoration of silence. There was no sound to indicate anything but rest, and believing the patient would be better undisturbed, the two friends passed noiselessly on and entered their chamber together. It was near one o'clock, and the slumberers of the other long-suffering couch were snoring energetically, as becomes the hard toiler and heavy sleeper. And quietly, so as not to awake them, the young men began their disrobing by the light of the stars which peeped in through an uncurtained window. They were neither quite ready for bed when the sound of a half-stifled cry reached their ears, followed quickly by the fall of some very heavy body which shook the whole building. 
               "What is that?" exclaimed Lamble, discontinuing his undressing. 
               "Some one has fallen-some one is hurt," said Ned, startled; and the thought of Father Tom being then on his mind, it was natural to think first of some possible harm to him. Dropping his garments just where he stood, the Master's young friend bounded impulsively across the hall and threw open the door at whose portal he had listened a moment before. At first all was darkness and silence, and the Secretary hoped for an instant that he had been mistaken; but presently, as he groped his way into the room, irregular and heavy respirations became audible, and then he stumbled over the figure of a man lying stretched at full length on the floor. Lamble, who was close at Ned Livingston's heels, turned back for some matches, and when a light had been struck, Father Tom was discovered senseless and prostrate, his face to the carpet. Out of a window which looked towards the convent Ned lustily shouted for Jerkman, thinking the Paymaster had scarcely had time to retire since the parting; but though the old yellow cat and her kitten were not very far apart, it seemed impossible to make any one hear, for no answer was returned. Then, tenderly, the two young men lifted the old one on to his bed, and stood bewildered and helpless above his unconscious and motionless form. Soon arrived little Frank, who certainly seemed ubiquitous. He had heard Livingston's cry as he strolled thoughtfully away, after escaping Mr. Beliful's intended attack, and quickly returned full of fears for the safety of his loved friend, the Secretary. Scarcely less was he distressed by the actual state of affairs, for the Master Mechanic was the little man's idol, and he reverenced him the more that he had never known the affection, and counsel and help of a father. The wise and considerate old Master was the only true father the waif had ever known. Collecting his well-scattered senses, Ned dispatched little Frank for Dr. Van Vickers, at Salell, bidding him summon Jim Hook as he went, mount his friend Lazarus and lose not a moment. Next Charley made tracks for the smeared cat-convent, which he had hoped not to enter again while Link was an inmate, and aroused both the Paymaster and Station Agent, who had really gone off into their first snooze already. Put was away down the road and would not return until late the next day, so there seemed no one in particular to notify and nothing to do for a time, but watch faithfully and pray earnestly. Ned Livingston did both while he sat all alone by poor Father Tom's bedside to wait for the coming of abler and better attendants. Charley Lamble was the first to return and he remarked a bad change in the sufferer's face, since leaving his side a few moments earlier. The two young men gazed at one another despairingly a moment, and then both looked down on the good man (whom they felt was fast passing away) with tears dropping slowly from their eyes, which it was not unmanly to shed. Remembering the arm which had troubled their old friend so long, Ned loosened the shirt sleeve which covered it and discovered a quivering, throbbing, hot bunch of muscles protruding, like an unshapely knot on the limb of a tree. This the young friends had often seen Father Tom rub down into comparative softness and ease, and their first work on beholding it was to get down on their knees and fall to smoothing the fibres down gently, but firmly. It soothed their deep, unspoken grief to be doing something. Any occupation in an hour of great trouble is a blessing. Sitting idle and brooding adds weight to life's woes. 
               While the faithful companions thus toiled together over the Master Mechanic's brown arm, lying rigid and gaunt across the edge of the bed, Jim Hook arrived breathless, and insisted on relieving Charley Lamble, that the Conductor might get a little sleep before his train time at daybreak. Lamble yielded his place, but for Ned's sake he would not go away, even if no task remained for his hands in the sick-room. Jerkman and Beliful soon reached the sad scene, but they proved to be as helpless as the rest until the doctor should arrive. But to these older men it was evident that the end was at hand. Once, as Livingston held open the fingers of the paralyzed hand, for Hook to stroke gently the agitated muscles, and as Lamble bent over him tenderly to moisten with a drop of iced-sherry, the white lips so trembling and dry, the dying man raised his heavy eyelids an instant, and fixed a fond gaze on the friends laboring patiently for his relief. 
               "Do you know us, Father Tom-are you better?" Lamble asked, speaking close to his ear. No answer was heard, but an effort for utterance was visible. The kind eyes were turned, for an instant, towards the handsome young Conductor's pained face, and something like a reassuring smile became apparent as if he would say, "Don't grieve for me, my son, I am content." It was Father Tom's last, feeble look at the world. Long before little Frank could return from Salell with Van Vickers there were symptoms of speedy dissolution, and hope failed the watchers by his bedside. The fluttering grew still in his arm, his breathing became fainter, his pulse beat more softly, a cold, clammy moisture appeared on his brow-a damp which it is terrible to see when one knows it for the dew of that swift-coming night which men call death. 
               During a struggle for speech, Ned bent his ear close to the patriarch's lips and listened intently. The words, which half-formed themselves, came solemnly, though broken, from the verge of the tomb. As near as the listener could come to the purport of this farewell communication, it was this: 
               "Put-good-bye. New-master-kind-to-boys. Going-Mark-Hibberd-Allonby-Fire Fly-rest-last. God-bless-all-." There were further mutterings, but nothing comprehensible was heard after this. It was evident the poor, weary pilgrim had mingled in his thoughts the friends and the scenes of his earlier years, with those of a later experience. He thought of old Put and would leave a good-bye; he thought of his workmen, "his boys," and wished his successor to be kind to them; he thought of the home to which he was going, and the youthful companion who had suddenly been hurled to destruction from the wild-driven "Firefly" at Allonby; he thought of the rest for himself, which was approaching, and left a benediction for all. The shock of the "Firefly," he knew was bringing him to his end, as surely, if not near so suddenly, as it had brought Mark Hibberd so many years before. But resignation, and peace, faith, gentleness and love were all to be read in the dying of this noble old Christian, and long-suffering man. 
               The doctor came finally and little Frank having conducted him to the room, threw himself on the floor in a silent but terrible paroxysm of grief. "He was my father-my only one," the Fireman said to Livingston, who lifted him up and supported him across the narrow hall into his own darkened room. "Let me stay by my father, my savior, my friend." When he was calmer they let him return, and he crawled to the foot of the bed and crouched down with his face in his hands, as a faithful dog lies at a good master's side with his nose on his paws. Here he remained until the end. 
               The doctor shook his head, and declined to attempt any remedies which would only disturb the now fast-sinking man and could not hope to help him in the least. The end was too near. 
               So the hearts that had loved him drew near to the couch of the dying, and waited. Their powerless hands could not hold him back, for the grim engine death was drawing the train. 
               And the night wore away and a new day awoke. But Father Tom woke nevermore. The dear old man passed, without a struggle, from earth, and his watchers, though close to his side, heard no echo from the unseen beyond. And thus the frail car which had borne his brave spirit so long, went down the dark grade to a terminus unknown. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               SWITCHING OFF-A MUSE PLAYING SWITCHMAN. 
               Winter was at hand. The great trestle bridge over the bottom was completed, and a removal of headquarters from Pickatonic to Lamoyelle had already commenced. The result of the directors' stormy meeting proved to be that Pickatonic, and all things pertaining to the temporary town, should be sold as they stood, instead of transferred for possible employment at the terminus about to be established. Superintendent Wynworth's strong influence brought about this result, though, at one time, a majority of the board were in favor of the questionable economy of transporting Pickatonic's accumulated trash all the way to Lamoyelle, in the hope of some part of it being wanted again. The wise plan adopted relieved the operation of "switching off" from complication, as the personal effects of the employes, and some few books and papers, comprised the material requiring transportation. 
               Just previous to a discontinuance of trains to Pickatonic, and while the temporary bridge was yet indispensable, old Boric accomplished his coveted revenge on the "Coe." He bought, with his ill-gotten gains, an old steamboat, about the size of a bathing tub, and, pretending to want to proceed up the river where steamboats had never been known to go, previously-for the reason there was nothing in the world to go after-he declared the pile railway bridge (the source of his wealth) an obstruction to navigation, and, tying up his vessel, charged fifty dollars a day for detention. There was a formidable bill footed up before the company were ready to let him through with his pocket edition of a steamer, and, of course, it was not paid without a struggle at law. But the irrepressible triumphed, and, according to his favorite expression, "caused the d--d Coe a right smart chance of squirming." 
                
               The first crossing of the new Boomer bridge, which spanned the wide valley from bluff-top to bluff-top, and in its long stretch passed over a mile of impracticable bottom, a river, a canal and the great Cargo Railway, was an event of considerable interest, and produced no little excitement among railroaders. The spans of this structure were longer than any formerly constructed, and, as a portion of the timbers had been weakened and wrenched by a tornado, before being properly secured, grave doubts as to its strength were fully expressed by competent authority. Yet notwithstanding this serious circumstance, nearly all the Engineers were anxious for the honor and credit of first running a locomotive across its rial track. There were about as many applicants for the job as there are in an army, when volunteers spring to do dangerous duty in the ranks of a forlorn hope. Grace Greenwood has caught the true spirit of this class of brave men. She says: "There was no better stuff in the fighting legions of old than is to be found among men pursuing the peaceful but perilous avocations of modern enterprise. Many a locomotive, thundering by night around mountain curves, over gulf and gorge and trembling trestle, bears, in the person of its faithful and fearless Engineer, as true a hero as ever rolled along the via sacra or through the Roman Forum in a victor's car." 
               After much deliberation it was decided that Put should be the man. Poor old Put! He had been even more melancholy than usual since Father Tom's death, and was never seen to smile except when lifted out of his troubles, as it were, by the proximity of danger and the excitement of surmounting great obstacles. 
               "I'm an old worthless bulk," he said disparagingly, and haven't either sweetheart or wife to be fretting in advance and howling over me afterwards, in case I go down. My 'sweetheart,' my fast young sixteen will accompany me, and then if the bridge plays us false we shall both go to the devil together. That is much better than that one should live after to lament and be sorry." 
               When the crossing had been safely accomplished, as it was in November, the Engineer spoke of his achievement with considerable less sad ness, but yet as a brave man may speak. When Ned Livingston questioned him concerning the event, he said: 
               "I stood upon the foot-board without a feeling of fear. 'Sweet Sixteen' was gaily decorated, and the crowd of excited and turbulent beings were so full of admiration for the faithful old tea-kettle that I begun to be jealous. The impression was general that my 'sweetheart' would either break down the new bridge or else spread the track, where its timbers were injured, and plunge us down, headlong, among the wilderness of weeds on the bottom. My reply to these anxious suggestions was, that the time had gone by for considering the probability of such occurrences; there was no other course than to have a trial made of the new structure which had been constructed at such great expense. I refused to take along a Fireman, as it did not seem necessary that more than one should be involved in its fate. I would take the first ride entirely alone, and believed the time would come when I should look back to the incident with great interest. As I placed my hand on the throttle handle, I was undecided whether I would move slowly or with a fair degree of speed; but, believing that the bridge would prove safe, after all, and preferring, if we did go down, to go handsomely, and without any evidence of timidity, I started with considerable velocity, passed the place reputed weak, and was soon out of sight, and out of hearing, of the vast, cheering assemblage in my rear. At the end of a mile or two, I reversed my old machine and ran rapidly back without accident to the place of starting. Now, Neddy," he concluded, "I can boast of having made the first trip, by locomotive, over the great Salell bridge." 
               Of course a celebration of gigantic proportions inaugurated the completion of this most important link in the Lamoyelle line, in which the honored participants, as usual, were others than real railroad men. Bridge-builders, contractors, a few high officials of the road, and a sprinkling of municipal dignitaries, and citizens from Cargo and Salell, were the parties most conspicuous as celebrators. It was a joyous and memorable occasion; but the feature most worthy of remembrance, and best illustrative of some popular, romantic ideas of the mighty steam engine, was the flood of appropriate and excellent poetry to which it gave birth. 
               Perhaps the prettiest composition was "The Midnight Train," a piece sent in anonymously, and finely read at the banquet table by a lawyer of Cargo: 
               
                   
                     Across the dull and brooding night 
                     A giant flies, with demon light 
                     And breath of wreathing smoke; 
                     Around him whirls the reeling plain, 
                     And with a dash of dim disdain, 
                     He cleaves the sundered rock. 
                  
                   
                     In lowly swamps the low wind stirs 
                     The belt of black funereal firs, 
                     That murmur to the sky. 
                     Till, startled by his mad career, 
                     They seem to keep a hush of fear 
                     As if a God swept by! 
                  
                   
                     Through many a dark wild heart of heath, 
                     O'er booming bridges, where beneath 
                     A midnight river bawls; 
                     By ruins, remnants of the past, 
                     Their ivies trembling in the blast, 
                     By singing waterfalls! 
                  
                   
                     The slumb'rer on his silent bed 
                     Turns to the light his lonely head 
                     Divested of his dream. 
                     Long leagues of gloom are hurried o'er, 
                     Through tunnel-sheaths, with iron roar, 
                     And shrill night-rending scream. 
                  
                   
                     Past huddling huts, past flying farms, 
                     High furnace flames, whose crimson arms 
                     Are grappling with the night, 
                     He tears along receding lands, 
                     To where the kingly city stands, 
                     Wrapped in a robe of light. 
                  
                  
                   
                     Here, round each wide and gushing gate, 
                     A crowd of eager faces wait, 
                     And every smile is known. 
                     We thank thee, O Thou Titan train, 
                     That in the city once again, 
                     We clasp our loved, our own! 
                  
                
               Then followed "The Song of the Steam Engine," from Vanity Fair, which, if not very new, was better than many a modern production. 
               
                   
                     Fast through the sombre pine forests I flash, 
                     Pounding the track with monotonous crash; 
                     Lighting the gloom with a comet-like glare, 
                     Thrilling with noises unearthly the air; 
                     Startling the turkey and coon from their sleep- 
                     Mighty with motion resistless I sweep. 
                     Bong! bong! 
                     Smashing along! 
                     I lighten my road with a bit of a song! 
                  
                   
                     Oh! I can sing though of iron my throat, 
                     And discordant my wild supernatural note! 
                     And the song that I sing is of danger and dread, 
                     The midnight collision, the quivering dead! 
                     The power imperial that nothing can stay; 
                     The myriad of perils that lurk by the way. 
                     Bong! bong! 
                     Crashing along! 
                     I shorten the road with a bit of a song! 
                  
                   
                     Ho! there old stoker, who think you control 
                     This iron-ribbed animal, body and soul! 
                     Why, one pant of my lungs, and one heave of my flank 
                     Would flash you down yonder precipitous bank; 
                     So don't be too proud of your muscle and bones- 
                     For sixty feet down, there are horrible stones! 
                     Ding! dong! 
                     Bumping along! 
                     Don't think that I'm singing your funeral song! 
                  
                  
                   
                     For I know that behind me I carry a treasure, 
                     And it thrills through my nerves with a singular pleasure; 
                     There the bride by her newly-wed husband reposes, 
                     And the bronze of his cheek is faint flushed by her roses; 
                     And the pale mother sits with her babe at her bosom, 
                     Like a lily that just has unfolded a blossom. 
                     Bong! bong! 
                     Gently along! 
                     Soft as the winds of the summer my song. 
                  
                   
                     But hang all this sentiment I am a steed 
                     That lives on the wild inspiration of speed; 
                     I feed upon distance, I grapple with space, 
                     My soul is a furnace-my life is a race: 
                     The long prairie shakes with my thunderous tread, 
                     And my dissonance curdles the air overhead. 
                     Bong! bong! 
                     Mad'y along! 
                     The mountains I split with reverberant song! 
                  
                   
                     Yet sometimes I think, when I'm housed for the night, 
                     I may live to behold the decay of my might; 
                     For not far from my stable I often behold 
                     A decrepid old Loco, once gallant and bold; 
                     Now his piston is gouty, his boiler is "bust," 
                     And the gold of his harness is eaten with rust. 
                     Ding! dong! 
                     Rotting so long! 
                     With never a mouthful of coals, nor a song! 
                  
                   
                     Oh! better to die in the hour of my pride, 
                     Far better to perish in tunnel or tide!- 
                     Ha! what red light is this that's advancing amain? 
                     'Tis my rival returning-the haughty down-train! 
                     Clear the rack! I'm upon ye! Hurrah! what a smash! 
                     Then, old fellow, I think I have settled your hash- 
                     Bong! bong! 
                     Slowly along! 
                     I'm rather too crippled to finish my song! 
                  
                
                
               And in spite of a disposition, in critical quarters, to laugh at a line of the poem entitled "A Misprint Corrected" by C. H. Webb, Esq., which presents the poetic figure of "waves of surging rhyme," these verses were most favorably received, and are worthy of reproduction and preservation. 
               
                   
                     "Westward the star of Empire takes its way," 
                     Said Bishop Berkley. Since the Bishop's day, 
                     Four score of years, in waves of surging rhyme, 
                     Mark the world's wake and well the sea of Time: 
                     Though signs have perished with the changing tide, 
                     And thrones, like sea-waifs, strew the ocean side; 
                     Still floats a banner from the blue unfurled- 
                     The stars of Empire crown the western world! 
                     Our prairie-skies their regal light attest; 
                     Born in the purple-Hail, O, kingly west! 
                  
                   
                     Yet musing now, I think instead of star 
                     The good old Bishop should have written car 
                     For lo! the car still westward takes its way; 
                     Outstrips the winds, and dares a race with day. 
                     And some years hence, perchance a train shall run- 
                     Start moments late, and overtake the sun! 
                     E'en now, close linked by tie, and chain, and band, 
                     The night and morning journey hand in hand; 
                     And, sweeping nearer with their trailing fold, 
                     The skirts of evening brush the gates of gold! 
                  
                   
                     The woven wonder of a weaver's dream- 
                     A shuttle thrown across the world by steam! 
                     From eastern looms a flying beam is sped- 
                     It woofs the prairies with an iron thread; 
                     And, deftly spun among the flowers, behold 
                     A cloth of iron-no "poet's cloth of gold," 
                  
                   
                     The car of Empire westward takes its way; 
                     The god of steam pursues the god of day; 
                     The prairies tremble with his clanging tread, 
                     And shuddering forests start aside in dread!- 
                      
                     Still westward, westward! Mississippi's tide 
                     In vain essays to stay his mighty stride; 
                     He clears the rushing water with a bound- 
                     Far on the planes his dancing plumes are found; 
                     On, on! he breasts the dark Missouri's waves, 
                     And finds his rest where planets find a grave? 
                  
                   
                     Here in this valley where the Cedar's plume, 
                     In green remembrance keeps the red man's tomb, 
                     Alone, of yore the Indian lover strayed, 
                     And breathed his passion to the dusky maid; 
                     The listening stars heard but the lover's sigh, 
                     The low confession, and the soft relpy: 
                     How strangely changed-within the valley hurled 
                     A bomb comes bursting from the outer world! 
                     The clang of iron, the madened shriek of steam, 
                     Usurp the sway that science held supreme, 
                     And echo starts in wonder from her cave, 
                     To find her life where silence found a grave. 
                  
                   
                     The Iron Horse-he stands before our sight 
                     Harnessed, yet free; rejoicing in his might. 
                     His mane floats far in scornful pride and wrath- 
                     What recketh he of Lyons in the path? 
                     His ribs of brass, each sinew triple steel, 
                     Far his bosom groans beneath his iron heel; 
                     With breath of fire and heart of throbbing flame 
                     His pulsing veins may Jove's own lineage claim. 
                     What! yoke the gods? unbind him from the cars 
                     To join his brother planet, flaming Mars. 
                  
                   
                     And now a toast-a churl is he indeed, 
                     Who'll grudge this bumper to our fiery steed- 
                     Your glasses fill-and bear a cup to me- 
                     I'll give you, boys, with triple "three times three"- 
                  
                   
                     THE IRON HORSE-when dolts would block the way 
                     Of progress, may he give a ringing-Neigh. 
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               OLD GROOVES AND NEW-VARIOUS REVOLVING ATTACHMENTS. 
               Ned Livingston was the last of the railroaders to leave Pickatonic, and as he started down the bluff past the door of the "Leonardi," an impulse which he did not attempt to resist, led him directly in at the wide open portal. The Secretary's little misunderstanding with the landlady of the now nearly depopulated tavern had long since been satisfactorily explained, and, as she had been the first to bid him welcome to Pickatonic, he thought perhaps to gratify the eccentric old philosopher in petticoats by the ceremony of a farewell visit. He was cordially received, and found Brother Shirtrip in the saloon lunching leisurely on ham, bread and beer. The reverend explained, apologetically, that his own domestic affairs had been thrown into confusion by a desertion of his maid of all work. She had fallen in love with a gay youth of forty, whose duties on the bluff had been confined to the profession of wiping, and the removal of her lover to Lamoyelle had been a signal for the faithful soul to follow after. The poor, abandoned old preacher looked melancholy enough, but his sorrows had not impaired his appetite. His vegetable-looking aperture, which answered the purpose of a mouth, was opening and shutting in an alarming manner, and the way in which he fed himself from the head of a barrel, chucking in piece after piece of the unattractive food with surprising rapidity, reminded Ned at once of a Fireman passing wood into the fire-box of a locomotive. He was, fortunately, too much occupied with crumbling bread into his industrious jaw to indulge in any allusion to the "crumbling brink," as usual, so Madam Leonardi, after salutations had been exchanged, and the object of Livingston's visit announced, made herself sociable after her peculiar fashion. 
                
               "Well, Livinstun," she said, "I can't say as I'm awful sorry you're a goin to Lamoyelle, which it's my intention also to go too." 
               "You going to Lamoyelle, Mother Leonardi? I had no idea you intended to move." 
               "Yes indeed; I never meant to stop in this superanimated hole after the railroaders was gone. Them as wants to secure the early bird, must move with the worms, as the poet says, and so I'm a goin' along o' you fellers." 
               "Not comparing us railroaders to vermin, I hope?" 
               "Which some of 'em ought ter be compared, Livinstun, they is that slow a payin' of their honest debts, which would be a disgrace to respectable wermin anywhere." 
               "Shall you continue your establishment in Lamoyelle?" Livingston asked. 
               "Somethin' similar, if Brother Rip can be rectified on the subject," she answered, with a smile of much meaning cast slyly at the preacher. The good understanding which seemed to exist between the vender of gin and the mender of souls struck Livingston with peculiar significance when he remembered a rumor of an intended alliance between the houses of Shirtrip and Leonardi. The old priest had been growing very dissolute through love for the widow, and, if reports could be trusted, strong beer was becoming a favorite and familiar beverage to the reverend gentleman's fire-box. Having now concluded his repast, he waved his huge nose over the debris of food, like a great banner waving in triumph over a captured fortress. 
               "How soon shall you follow us?" inquired the Secretary. 
               "Jest right off, Livinstun," said Mother Leonardi, "which I ought ter have went sooner, but that Clotty was always the obstacle." 
               The obstacle had meanwhile entered unobserved, and was now perched on a barrel engaged in a sea voyage of limited proportions. 
               "How is that?" the Secretary inquired. 
               Mother Leonardi beckoned Ned Livingston close to the counter, behind which she stood, bathing her fragment of a hand in a set of soiled tumblers, and said, in a stage whisper, quite audible across the track, "Livinstun, that gal's sot on you. Which she is that attached to you as movin' was out o' the question so long as you was in Pickatonic." 
               "Dry up," shouted Miss Leonardi respectfully. Livingston laughed and said he should feel flattered by such an evidence of regard, but hardly supposed his slight acquaintance with Clotty could have advanced him so high in her opinion. 
               "Now, Livinstun," said Mother Leonardi, "don't you be a goin' on with yer highfalutins. You've knowed that innocent child this many a month, and you've knowed her hankerin' heart, which it's forgive many onkindnesses, and been true as the needle to the fish-pole." 
               "In a pig's eye," remarked Clotty. 
               "Which modesty forbids as she should own up," persisted the mother. "Gals which gets sot onto fellers is smart enough to keep their feelin's indigestible." 
               "Well, I can't say that your fair daughter has ever been impruden enough to betray a very extreme affection for me, and I think you will find, in good time, that there's another much nearer to her heart than myself. Eh, Miss Clotty," turning to that virgin mariner, "what do you say to young Lemuel Smith, the gay Count d' Orsay?" 
               But, in anticipation of this threatened revelation, the young lady had expeditiously descended from her perch, abandoned her voyage, and fled into regions unknown at the rear of the house. 
               "'Tain't no use blowin' them tales in my ears," said the ancient dame, incredulously, shaking her cap-ruffles, like an old hen drying her plumage. "Jest setch yarns was spun about that Bodkins, which there wasn't no truth into 'em, and Edwin Livinstun is the amphibious individual which Clotty would wed. Now's jest as good a time as any other, young man, and if yer intentions has been honorable, say right out if you intend to join my gal in the holy bands." 
               Amused yet annoyed he replied, between a smile and a frown; 
               "Thank you, not just at present." 
               "Well," said the would-be mother-in-law, regarding this simply as a postponement, "there ain't no reel hurry. We're all a goin' to Lamoyelle together, and Rip and I may possibly link in, which it rests with the brother to say whether to drop the preachin' business or the gin business, folks bein' that prejudiced agin the two runnin' together. So there'll be plenty of chances to court and prepare for your weddin' after we get moved. I'll see to it that Clotty is kept pure and inveterate for you, when you come to take her with my blessin'." 
               "Good-bye," said Livingston, getting disgusted. "I congratulate you and our worthy Shirtrip on your approaching nuptials, but you needn't nurse any idle fancies on my account." 
               "Which it's ahead o' time talkin' about nursin' afore marriage," cried Mother Leonardi, indignant. "Livinstun, I don't want no more trouble along o' him as is to be my son-in-law, so we won't quarrel agin; but Rip there, which he has been a childish widower, might blush at your elusions." 
               "Good-bye," said Livingston again, not wishing to prolong a ridiculous scene. 
               'Adoo, Livinstun," said the gin vender. "We parts friends, I hope?' 
               "O, yes," said Ned, "all right." 
               "When you wounded me with harsh names on the day of your duckin'," said the Madam, detaining her guest against his will, "which they has been explained and made obscene, I was cut to the quilp. I couldn't have been hurt worse if you had pulled every tooth out of my head and cast them into the middle of the Atlantic Ocean." 
               Ned got away at this point, and, in a good humor, went laughing down the plane. His sense of the comical was acute, and he was now more than commonly amused at the landlady's parting declaration, probably because he knew very well that Mother Leonardi had very few teeth in her busy old jaws, and didn't see exactly how the pain of any dental operation could be materially augmented by having the teeth consigned to the deep. 
               Need it be recorded of our young friend, the Secretary, that he went down the bluff-side and away from Pickatonic with far less regret than if Mistress Rachel Wyland had not lived at Lamoyelle? As it was he looked back regretfully, even now, on the homely old village whose glory had departed, and, in a few inevitable moments of retrospection, lived over the recent happy past. Eight months in Pickatonic had opened to him the mysteries of a strange, varied life, almost as exciting and dangerous as life in an army of invasion. And it had taught him, too the sweet enjoyments which are born of true friendship, and a first, fond love. Here he had gained his first insight into the depths of men's souls; here he had known what it was to stand close to the verge of eternity, and hear the dull plashing of death's dismal sea "on a hereafter shore." Here he had gained that sound business knowledge which no man undervalues whose inclination is toward the commercial; and much work was done in a business way in Pickatonic, and many grave problems were laboriously solved there, little as it would appear from the details of this narrative. It is not thought needful to force on the kind reader's notice continuous items of toil-familiar, monotonous and dull-but rather to introduce the interesting scenes and events which surround and grow out of them. But let this not lead to a suspicion that there was not an abundance of muscle expended, or that the toil did not exist. There were memories both mournful and pleasant in the heart of Ned Livingston as he took his backward look with a sigh. But there was no time to linger in reverie. Besides, our young friend was outgrowing a little of the sentimentality of boyhood, and did not, as easily as formerly, give way to weak fancies. So long as he was in love, and the finale of this misfortune was still among the uncertainties of the future, he could not expect the dull gold of his life to be free from the glittering alloy of romance. But he was improving. At last he went down the bluff-side impetuously, crossed the ferry for the last time without Borie's assistance, and strode away across the valley, as if he had a spite against his boots. Next day he was established at Lamoyelle. 
               And railroad life in Lamoyelle was somewhat different from what it had been at Pickatonic. In some general features it was, of course, much the same; but everything in the latter place assumed grander proportions portions, its various departments being recruited by innumerable operatives who conducted affairs on a most magnificent scale. And the contrast between temporary Pickatonic and permanent Lamoyelle was striking indeed. Fine offices had been built, spacious station buildings and warehouses erected, and near at hand, yet not too close, rose mammoth shops for manufactory and repairs, that thrust their tall chimneys high over the fast growing-town, and showered it with soot. 
               Soon after getting settled, a grand railroad ball celebrated the commencement of business at the permanent new terminus. It was a brilliant affair, for the railroad boys seldom attempt anything of the kind without carrying it through to triumphant success. The spacious and unencumbered loft of the freight-house was artistically prepared for the event. Its floor was smoothed down by volunteers from the carpenter shop; the car works provided velvet cushioned seats in abundance; headlights did duty as chandelers, assisted by red and white lanterns hung thick in festoons; signal flags, flowers, evergreens and bunting, decorated the rough warehouse walls, and all things combined to make memorable the occasion. The employes of the line were invited, en masse, of course, but invitations were also extended to officials of other, crossing and co-operating, lines, and numerous ladies and gentlemen from Cargo gave character and elegance to the event. Still Rachel Wyland was supremely magnificent. To call her the belle of the ball sounds commonplace and insufficient. She was its queen-its empress. She was robed all in white, with no color about her, excepting what tinged her soft, beautiful cheek, and that which tinted the flowers in her hair, on her bosom, and in her hands. Ned Livingston was in ecstacies, and the ladies from the city were overwhelmed with envy and malignity. There were disparaging whisperings at once. There always were disparaging whisperings when Rachel appeared in public and outshone other women without an effort. She expected it, and all her life had been forced thus to expiate the sin of being lovely. She danced, as she did everything else, most gracefully, and there was life, fire, enthusiasm in her enjoyment of dancing after fine music; but neither in this, nor in flirting, nor by manner or look, did she overstep the liberal bounds she always allowed herself. But the dames of the metropolis went home with sad tales of Rachel Wyland's misconduct, and a general condemnation of railroad society as "eminently demoralizing," and "very free," and "too mixed." Whether this sort of criticism was intended as a friendly return for the hospitality and politeness which were lavished on the honored guests of the evening, let the reader determine. But let him not be led ever to believe that railroad association is in any sense "demoralizing," or that it is "too free," except that it is open, frank, sincere and hearty. As to the charge of being "mixed," we plead guilty. Thank God, this is true. It is a society which shuts not its doors in the poor man's face, nor drives out the hard-handed toiler. However, the ball was a charming affair. It brought together most of the people whom we have met from time to time in the pages of this book. 
               Handsome Si brought sweet Nora from Bloom, and though his crushed arm was yet hung in a sling, he managed to put in a waltz now and then with his lady-love, and she danced with no other. Jerkman appeared with a mysterious "lady from the east," to whom he devoted himself as assiduously as if she had been a strong pipe full of Virginia tobacco. 
               Ned thought there was something in this strong evidence of devotion. And there was. Old dancing Jack Howland was there, putting in his miraculous steps with renewed emphasis, and leading dear old motherly Mrs. Jack through "monie musk," in memory of their courting days. And you would have laughed to have seen the old fellow swinging Rachel Wyland into the changes of the "Spanish dance," when that goddess made him happy by being his partner. It is hard to say whether she was most gratified or amused by the veteran's awkward revival of his youthful gallantries and his extraordinary dancing. It has been said you would have laughed to see it. But knowing the man as Ned Livingston knew him, your laugh would have been a good-natured one. Such was Rachel's enjoyment of the incident. 
                
               Little Frank was on hand, better dressed than he had ever been known to be, "by the boys," and looking less like a comical elf, in his drawing-room suit, and quite like a gentleman-which he was-in the world's strictest sense, and in reality. 
               Chet Laugham was there, quite well again now, and promoted, in spite of himself, to Baggageman. He was elevated, not so much for his heroism, after all, it appeared, as because the number of passenger trains had been increased, and he was actually needed in a new position. But appearances often deceive. The only favor the brave fellow asked was to be left on Charley Lamble's train; and this, of course, was granted, the Count being transferred to another run. Chet brought his sister Marion to the dance, and, as she was a pale, fair-haired, drooping-eyed damsel, as timid as pretty, little Frank took it into his clownish young head to flirt desperately with her. He seemed to be forgetting Lara Montino. Dan Daley, the second brakeman, could not be present, as Lamble was in attendance, and his train being out on the road, required one or two old hands in their places to render the absence of the others a possibility; but his mother and two pretty sisters were present, and received much attention. Extract took part, looking even more jolly than usual, with a ponderous widow hung to his elbow. Put came to the scene of attachments and whirlings, looking on the performance as a mechanical operation, but took in the view from a seat as obscure as he could find. He had on his stiff, unbecoming Sunday garments, and seemed sadly out of place with his melancholly visage making contrasts to the beaming smiles around. Some one needlessly inquired why he had brought no girl, and he pointed to the headlight of his engine, marked "16," which glared upon them from among others up above, and said: "My sweetheart's eye is here-that is enough." Beliful puffed onto the floor at a late hour, with his uncomfortable bowels as far in advance of him as usual, and the hateful nun, Link, attached to his side. The Lady Abbess had been sent to the home of her ancestors, in Canada, and the worthy prior was eloping with the angular widow. It was not known until many days after, but this memorable ball was really their starting point, and, from its boundless hospitalities, they went forth together, heaven knows whither. What a commentary on the rigid decorum and oppressive propriety of the convent at Pickatonic. 
               The Count participated, all perfume and grease; but alone. Clotty was restrained by parental authority, or Smith would undoubtedly have had her for his partner, for the "dandy trunk smasher" and the goddess of slang were even then meditating a sudden destruction of Madam Leonardi's high hopes and ambitious designs. The Count will be accused of poor taste, but he certainly was about to allow Miss Clotty Leonardi to "smash his watch," provided he ever possessed one of his own, with authority to permit such damaging liberties. 
               Jim Hook and his girl were at the ball, and he had with him a very sweet girl, with the very pretty name of Lily Layfield. She came from Salell, and had found out the old circus man's heart under all his forbidding externals. He looked even handsome in the eyes of Ned Livingston, who regarded the fellow with reverence and affection unbounded. Ned danced with Miss Layfield, complimented Hook on his manners and appearance, and on the gentility and amiability of his lady-love, until the good, faithful friend was elevated into a heaven of bliss, and the night of the inaugural dance became a new starting-point in life for him. 
               Michael Carson, the successor of poor Father Tom, was a conspicuous figure in the dancing hall, for he was a fine-looking, well-dressed gentlemanly-appearing man; and, being a manager of the ball, took pleasure and pride in pleasing both strangers and friends. He knew the rare love which the most of his men had long cherished for the dead friend and father, and his aim was to win them to himself by an adoption of as many of the late Master's methods as was practicable with the altered circumstances surrounding. It was a wise determination. Of course there never could be but one "Father Tom;" but Mr. Carson promised well to become in good time a very popular Master Mechanic. 
               Duke Angel, or Flop, was on hand, as a matter of course, and rolled through the figures as if the dance were on a ship's upper deck, and the waves were rolling heavily beneath her. He was sailor all over, and could not be persuaded to escort a lady to the grand entertainment, saying, "he'd easily pick up a lassie out o' the lot, and no bother sailing a craft to and fro." And he did it, for Mrs. Jack Howland was motherly and kind to him, in his loneliness, and not only danced with him herself, but got him appropriate and agreeable partners for many a polka and waltz. 
               Joe Glow and Miss Dorothy Dare were guests of the great "Lamoyelle Inaugural," and prominent figures they were in the vast whirling throng, both because they were so unboundedly happy and because everybody knew the history of their long, patient, love and the she-dragon who stood so persistently between them. "Romeo" had shaken off some of his roughness and uncouthness, and so polished up and utilized what was good in himself that he was quite another man from the noisy, slangy, Shakespearean spouter whom we know in the twilight soirees of Pickatonic. Love works some miracles. But what greater miracle had the tender passion ever achieved than that which resulted in Felicity Flint's withdrawal of opposition to Joe, because he was a railroad man? Yes, love had accomplished this apparent impossibility, for Felicity herself was in love-still worse, engaged to be married to a railroader herself. It will scarcely be believed, but the one-eyed, bouncing, antiquated virgin, who figured in Livingston's smash-up at Still Hollow, had actually captivated and captured the anatomical Stedboy, the champion violator of the Third Commandment, the Grand Pasha, the Road Master. The prudish old tract distributor had actually overcome her strong prejudices against "that shiftless set o' railroad folks," and "giving in" on her own account, involving a surrender of the long-used objections to "Juliet's" association with Glow, two loving hearts were at last made most happy. The other two, the fibrous and tough leftside organs of Stedboy and Miss Flint, doubtless meant to be happy if they could; but it was late in life to begin. They graced the ball with their presence, of course, and Felicity was in danger of being worshiped for the reason that she was tricked out in such an array of incongruous materials as made her resemble nothing in the heavens above or the earth beneath. There were no green worms, but sky-blue gloves formed a conspicuous feature. Felicity had money. Felicity had no taste. Not to linger over this "party for the exercise of heels," let us say that "all hands" were "on hand," and the time a most joyous, harmonious and delightful one. The Pees' and the Skew's were expected, but did not appear. Poor Sal and poor Pat! The only sad feature of the evening was a spiritual revelation which came to Livingston. He awoke that night to a realization of the terrible fact that he had a rival to the affections of Rachel Wyland in the person of his friend and companion, Charley Lamble. It did not come to him in words. There was no need. Something in the young Conductor's manner, both to Rachel and to Livingston, revealed the dread fact as no words could have done. It was as if Charley had himself just then become conscious of his own heart's secret. And so it was. Crushed as he had been by his ruinous love for Orlena Galliomi, he had thought himself secure from any fascinations which woman could bring to bear. He knew, too, and long had known, of Livingston's affection for Rachel, and he would have thought it dishonorable to pursue her with anything like the feelings of a lover. But knowing her so long and associating with her freely, and constantly as a friend, it was no wonder he finally walked blindfold into the abyss. This was his case. And so, like many another wreck, he drifted with the tide and waited and struggled and hoped against hope Ned Livingston held his secret and had guarded it sacredly. Ned loved him, trusted him, believed in him, and had stood up for him when others fell away. Should he now reward this fidelity, honor and affection by coming between this friend and the idol of his pure young heart? It must not be. And yet he could not fly from them and so become a waif and a wanderer again. That were his own destruction and a cowardly relief. Better to stay, and live on as of old, in the midst of temptation and danger. "They will never dream of my madness, and I may conquer it in time." Thus he reasoned. But Livingston had read it all, as in a book, on the tell-tale face of his friend, and a cloud was on his life from the night of the ball. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               RIDING THE DEVIL.-A TERRIBLE RUN. 
               After the ball, all hands went back to the old life again-the tranquil but never monotonous life that was copied from Pickatonic. The boys worked steadily and faithfully through the hours established in the various departments, and then, for rest and recreation, congregated at evening under the long, sheltered platform of the Station House, and smoked and dreamed and told stores as of old. 
               One night Jim Hook was in a communicative mood, and when Livingston, who presided as formerly, questioned him concerning his past railroad experiences, he told the following story. He called it "Riding The Devil," and if his satanic majesty may be considered available for equestrian exercise, perhaps this was a genuine case, after all. Certainly it came very near it, if not actually diabolical. 
               "In '57 during the great panic," commenced Hook, "I was running on the F. & C. R. R. The railroad companies were growing tender in all directions. Every day we heard of new failures, and quite often in a quarter where we least expected it. Our road was generally looked upon as one of the most substantial in the nation; nobody seemed to have any great fear that it would fail to survive the general smash-up. But yet I did not fully share in the general confidence. Wages were cut down; arrearages collected; and a great many other little matters seemed to indicate to me that the road had got into rather deeper water than was agreeable all around. Among other things, the Master Mechanic had told me in the spring that the company had ordered four first-quality Taunton engines for the fall passenger business. The road was put in the very best condition, and other preparations were made to cut down the time, and put the trains through quicker than was ever known before, when the new engines should come. Well, there was but one of the new engines came. 
               I said there was but one engine came, and she was, in my opinion, altogether the best ever turned out of the Taunton Works; and that is saying as much as can be said in praise of any engine. She was put in my charge immediately, with the understanding that she was mine. 
               It was Saturday when she came out of the shop, and I was to take a special train up to Y--. The train was to carry up the President and several of the officers of the road, to meet some officers of another road, which crossed ours there, and arrange some important business with them. 
               I had no trouble at all making my forty miles an hour going out. The engine handled herself most beautifully. We were just holding up at Y--, when Aldrich, the Treasurer, who had come out on the platform to put the brake on, slipped and fell. As we were yet under good headway, he was very much injured, and was carried off to the hotel insensible. 
               According to the President's directions, I switched off my train, turned my engine, and stood ready to start back to C--, at a moment's notice. 
               Aldrich's presence was of so much importance, that the business could not be transacted without him; so all those I had brought out, except the President and Aldrich, went back to C-- on the three o'clock express train. This was the last regular train which was to pass over the road until the next Monday. 
               Early in the evening I left the machine in charge of the Fireman, and went over to an eating-house, to see if I could not spend the time more pleasantly than on my engine. The hours dragged themselves slowly; I was taking a game of dominoes with the Station Agent, when in came Roberts, the President, in a state of great excitement. 
               'Jim,' said he to me, 'I want you to put me down in C-- at twelve o'clock.' 
               As it was nearly eleven o'clock then, and the distance was seventy-five five miles, I thought he was joking at first; but when we got outside the door, he caught me by the arm and hurried me along so fast that I saw he was in earnest. 
               'Jim,' said he, 'if you don't set me down in C-- by twelve o'clock, I am a ruined man, and this road is a ruined road. Aldrich is dead; but he told me, before he died, that he had embezzled, from time to time, five hundred thousand dollars of our money; and his clerk is to start with it, on the twelve o'clock boat, from C-- for Canada. If we don't have that money on Monday morning, to make some payments with, the road goes into other hands; and if you put me down in C-- at the right time, so that I save the money, you shall have five hundred dollars. Understand it, Jim? Five hundred dollars?' 
               Of course I understood it. I saw now the reason why the wages had been cut down. I understood it all, and my blood boiled. I felt that I could save the road if I lived, and told Roberts so. 
               'See that you do it, Jim," he replied, as he climbed up on the steps of the coach which was coupled to my engine. 
               I sprang up to the foot-board, got a switch-tender to help my Fireman, opened the throttle, and just as she commenced moving, I looked at my watch-it was just eleven o'clock, so that I had just one hour to make my seventy-five miles in. 
               From Y-- to C-- there are few curves in the road; but there were several heavy grades. I was perfectly acquainted with every rod of it, so that I knew exactly what I had to encounter; and when I saw how the engine moved, I felt very little fear of the result. 
               The road, for the first few miles, was an air-line, and so smooth that my engine flew along with scarcely a perceptible jar. I was so busy posting myself up as to the amount of wood and water aboard, etc., that we danced by the first station almost before I was aware of it, having been five minutes out, and having five miles accomplished. 
               'You are losing time!' yelled a voice from the coach. I looked around, and there was Roberts, with his watch in his hand. 
               I knew very well that we would have to increase our speed by some means, if we carried out our plans of reaching C-- by midnight, and looked anxiously around to see what I could do to accomplish that purpose. She was blowing of steam fiercely at one hundred and ten pounds; so I turned down the valve to two hundred, for I knew we should need it all to make some heavy grades which lay between us and C--. 
               It was three miles to the next station. With the exception of a few curves, the track was as good as the last. As we darted around what commonly seemed to be a rather long curve at the station, but which was, at our high speed, short enough, I looked at my watch; and we had done it in two minutes and a half. 
               'Gaining!' I shouted back to Roberts, who was standing on the platform of the coach. 
               'Look out for the heavy grades,' he replied, and went inside the car. 
               The next six miles rose gradually from a level, the first, to ten and a half feet grade, the last which lay between us and the last station. The Fireman kept her full; and now she began to get hot. The furnace door was red, and the steam raised continually; so that she kept her speed, and passed the station, like a streak of light, in five minutes. 
               Now came nine miles like the last, over which she kept pace with her time, and passed the station in seven minutes. 
               Here, for ten miles, we had a twenty-foot grade to encounter; but the worst of it all was, at this place we would be obliged to stop for wood. I was just going to speak to Roberts about it, when I looked around and saw him filling the tender from the coach with wood which had been placed there before starting, while he was gone after me. 
               I believe we would have made this ten miles at the same speed as before; but through the carelessness of the Fireman, the fountain-valve, on the left hand side of the engine, got opened, and the water rose in the boiler so far as to run the steam down to one hundred pounds before I discovered where the difficulty lay. 
               At first Roberts didn't appear to notice the decrease of speed, and kept at work at the wood, as if for dear life. But presently, he looked up, and seeing that the speed had decreased, he shouted: 'Jim, we are stopping.' And then coming over to where I was, he said: 'Why, here we have been ten minutes on the last ten miles, and I believe we will come to a dead stand, if something is not done. The speed is continually slacking! What is the matter?' 
               I explained the cause. He was apparently satisfied with my explanation, and, after having tied down the safety-valve, he climbed back over the tender, exhorting me to put her through, for God's sake, or we are all beggars together! 
               Just then we passed the next station, having taken nine minutes for eight miles. 
               We were now more than half over the road; but had lost nearly ten minutes time, and had left only twenty-seven minutes to do thirty-four miles in. 
               I had shut the water off from both my pumps, a little back, where I discovered what was the matter, and she was now making steam finely down a slight grade. From less than one hundred, with which she started over that ten-mile stretch, she had two hundred pounds before we finished it, and as the gauge indicated no higher than that, and the valve was tied down, I could not tell how much over two hundred pounds she carried, but she certainly carried none less the rest of the journey. And well might she carry such an enormous head of steam; for after passing over that ten miles in eight minutes, there lay ten miles of a five feet upgrade, and fourteen miles of twenty-to-the-mile depression yet between us and C--, and it was now eleven o'clock and forty-seven minutes. 
               Now the engine was hot in earnest. The furnace-door, smoke-arch and chimney, all were red; while she seemed to fly onward, as if the very evil one himself operated her machinery. 
               Six minutes carried us over that ten miles, and we darted by the last station that lay between us and C--. Now we had fourteen miles to go; and my time showed eleven o'clock and fifty-three minutes. 
               'If I live,' said I to myself, 'I will make it.' And we plunged down that twenty feet grade with all steam on. Persons who saw that train on that wild run, said that it was so soon after they heard the first sound of her approach, when the strange object, which looked as if it was a flame of fire, darted by, and then the sound of its traveling died away in the distance, that they could hardly convince themselves they had seen anything. It seemed more like a creature of a wild dream, than a sober reality. 
               And now let me tell you, that no engine ever beat the time we made on those fourteen miles. Those great wheels, eleven feet in diameter, spun around so swift that you couldn't begin to count the revolutions. The engine barely seemed to touch the track as she flew along; and although the track was as true as it was possible for it to be, she swayed fearfully, and sometimes made such prodigious jolts that it required considerable skill for one to keep his feet. No engine would hold together, if crowded to a greater speed. 
               Well, just as I came to a stand in the depot at C--, the big clock boomed out twelve, and the steamboat was getting her steam on. Roberts got on board in time, and nothing to spare. 
               And he saved the money, for it was found hid safely away in some boxes, where Aldrich had placed it and where his dying revelation directed that search should be made." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               OBSTRUCTIONS-SAVED ON THE BRINK. 
               Ned Livingston was now advanced to the position of Assistant Paymaster, and had added to his general office duties the business of collecting and systematizing particulars, and keeping full records of all live stock which was injured or killed by trains along the line. All Conductors reported to him daily by means of a convenient blank form established and it devolved upon him to investigate thoroughly, on the spot, all circumstances attending each case. Not only as concerned the possible blame of train men, but to ascertain who were the owners of property thus suddenly demolished, to interview the parties, to pacify settle their claims as reasonably and promptly as possible. 
               The road being new and a greater portion of it unfenced, these accidents were of very frequent occurrence in spite of the utmost precaution, and, notwithstanding, the best that could be done by way of recompense, a feeling of serious hostility against the Lamoyelle line sprung up among farmers living adjacent thereto. The road had paid extravagantly for its right-of-way through these farms and had raised them in value from hundreds to thousands of dollars, yet every benefit was forgotten by the short-sighted owners in an occasional loss of stock, a loss not long to continue and always most liberally compensated. Thus it was that the men who should have been friendly to the road and ready and willing to second and help on any scheme for its damage or destruction. 
               One night some workmen on the track at Ditchton, stole a hand-car and went down to the next station, Olo, for a spree. Returning very late, and so beside themselves with drink as to be oblivious of all save the jug which accompanied them, they were run over and dashed into eternity by Duke Angel's engine. Terrible as was this most melancholy accident, there was no one to blame for it save the poor, senseless creatures who put themselves insanely in the way annihilation; but the friends of the men who were killed made it an excuse for unbounded hostility against the road. More especially was their wrath turned against the unfortunate Engineer, who, though blameless, was well nigh heart-broken at what he had unconsciously done. Hardened old sailor, though he was, he could not look calmly on his own work of wholesale destruction. But little the demons of revenge cared for this. Backed and encouraged by the disaffected farmers between Ditchton and Olo, they inaugurated a system of hostility against the road almost unprecedented in the history fiendish malignity. They hid in the bushes beside the track and fired into the passing engine with guns and pistols; but Angel was taken off of the run and old Put, the hero who stood ready for every remarkably dangerous enterprise, claimed the post of exposure. The change was as widely advertised as was possible in the region at war; but beligerency continued. Without a particle of sense or discrimination in their anger, they aimed all their blows at the one train which had caused the sad accident, though finally not a man remained on it who had run there at the time it occurred. They put infernal machines between the ties with an ingenious wire trigger for the pilot of the engine to set off; they tore up the track; they burned culverts and bridges; they obstructed the track with huge rocks; they broke the locks of switches and turned them over to run the train down into sand pits or gravel banks, and, indeed, there was nothing ingenuity could invent which was left by them undone, to accomplish damage and revenge. Much severe harm resulted from all this endeavor, of course, but it would seem as if a special, kind Providence watched over this long threatened train so narrowly did it often escape. Reports of the danger spread rapidly abroad and for a season the night express was completely depopulated. A panic prevailed and passengers were afraid to trust themselves to the chances of death which this late run offered. Of course the best possible efforts were made, both openly and secretly, to discover the perpetrators of these acts of malevolence, but all endeavor was vain. Screened and sheltered, as the villains were by the residents through the dangerous region, it was impossible to get at the really guilty ones, and the attempt was finally abandoned-great caution and close watchfulness alone protecting the train men from a sudden and hocking death. Put proved himself throughout the bravest of the brave. Never reckless, but coolly and wisely courageous he stayed by his engine, and through long weeks, and even months, of secret warfare, ran his train to and fro on time, narrowly escaping destruction nearly every night of his life. He lived down hostility by a steady determination and perseverance, when a show of timidity would have encouraged attack indefinitely. Harassed, hindered, and, once or twice, run into the ditch, he was yet as intrepid and fearless as the warrior who goes heaven-sustained into a battle for justice and right. The warrior is crowned, and his fame is sung loudly in history and poetry. The Engineer gets a quiet "well done" from the official who appreciates his services, and would blush if his brown face would let him. What cares he for fame, or history, or poetry? He smokes his old pipe in the seclusion of his cab and is happy. At least he is not unhappy for want of a world's applause. 
               But cattle-killing and ill-feeling continued to prevail in various quarters in the face of precautions extraordinary, and, having to hold inquest on so many dead bodies, from time to time, Ned Livingston came to be known as "the Coroner"-a new grade in the line of railway employment. His new duties took him much on the road, which was in accordance with medical advice, his health never having been strong since the Pickatonic accident. Constant exercise was recommended and he took it chiefly on the engines, ever welcome by the friendly Engineers and through them learning to know every part of that grand, mighty mechanism which "sends an iron horse panting thro' the world." 
               One night, at the platform gathering, when the question of roadside troubles was being discussed and a variety of opinions had been given (some inclining to the policy of meeting hostility with severity and force, and others declaring in favor of overcoming it with kindness) Fred Blaisdell put in his oar for an illustrative narrative. Blaisdell will be remembered as the gentleman of elegant leisure who, as "extra," came down from Cargo to Pickatonic and took Lamble's run alter Livingston's brief experience therewith. He was now in charge of a regular train and leaned towards a system of amity and leniency in dealing with the road's neighbors. He was once saved on the very verge of destruction through having shown kindness to some children. 
               Said he: "There is an old saying that the friendship of a dog is better than his ill-will, and for many years, in my capacity as a railroad Conductor, I have found the above to be true to a letter-but mind, I am not saying that I have no enemies. I, undoubtedly, have a few, and I don't think there is a man that lives but has more or less. A little kindness, now and then, to the many needy ones, a Conductor will find, almost every trip over his road, will not be lost, and he will, in many cases, find from his "bread cast upon the waters," a return four-fold. Yet he must use a great deal of judgment in bestowing his charity upon even those he thinks entirely worthy of such bestowal. I will in this connection, relate an incident by which a little kindness saved my life, and the lives of all the passengers on board my train. 
               The Western Division of the S. S. R. R. runs through a very mountainous part of Virginia, and the stations were few and far between. About three miles from one of these stations, the road runs through a deep gorge of the Blue Ridge, and near the centre is a small valley, and there, hemmed in by the everlasting hills, stood a small one and a half story log cabin. The few acres that surrounded it were well-cultivated as a garden, and upon the fruits thereof lived a widow and her three children, by the name of Graff. They were, indeed, untutored in the cold charities of an outside world-I doubt much if they ever saw the sun shine beyond their own native hills. In the summer times the children brought berries to the nearest station to sell, and with the money they earned they bought a few of the necessities of the outside refinement. 
               The oldest of these children I should judge to be about twelve years, and the youngest about seven. They were all girls and looked nice and clean, and their healthful appearance and natural delicacy, gave them a ready welcome. They appeared as if they had been brought up to fear God, and love their humble home and mother. I had often stopped my train and let them get off at their home, having found them at the station some three miles away, after disposing of their berries. 
               I had children at home, and I knew their little feet would be tired in walking three miles, and, therefore, felt that it would be the same with those fatherless little ones. They seemed so pleased to ride, and thanked me with such hearty thanks, after letting them off near home. They frequently offered me nice, tempting baskets of fruit for my kindness; yet I never accepted any without paying their full value. 
               Now, if you remember, the winter of'54 was very cold in that part of the State, and the snow was nearly three feet deep on the mountains. 
               On the night of the 26th of December of that year, it turned around warm and the rain fell in torrents. A terrible storm swept the mountain tops, and almost filled the valleys with water. Upon that night my train was winding its way, at its usual speed, around the hills and through the valleys, and as the road-bed was all solid rock, I had no fear of the banks giving out. The night was intensely dark, and the winds moaned piteously through the deep gorges of the mountains. Some of my passengers were trying to sleep, others were talking in a low voice, to relieve the monotony of the scene. Mothers had their children upon their knees as if to shield them from some unknown danger without. 
               It was near midnight, when a sharp whistle from the engine brought me to my feet. I knew there was danger by that whistle, and sprang to the brakes at once, but the Brakemen were all at their posts, and soon brought the train to a stop. I seized my lantern and found my way forward as soon as possible, when, what a sight met my gaze! A bright fire of pine logs illuminated the track for some distance, and not over forty rods ahead of our train a horrible gulf had opened its maw to receive us! 
               The snow, together with the rain, had torn the whole side of the mountain out, and eternity itself seemed spread out before us. The widow Graff and her children had found it out, and had brought light brush from their home below, and built a large fire to warn us of our danger. They had been there more than two hours watching beside that beacon of safety. As I went up to where that old lady stood drenched through by the rain and sleet, she grasped me by the arm and cried- 
               'Thank God! Mr. Blaisdell, we stopped you in time. I would have lost my life before one hair of your head should have been hurt. Oh, I prayed to heaven that we might stop the train, and my God, I thank Thee!' 
               The ladies and gentlemen vied with each other in their thanks and heartfelt gratitude towards Mrs. Graff and her children, and assured her that that they would never, never forget her, and before the widow left the train, she was presented with a purse of four hundred and sixty dollars, the voluntary offering of a whole train of grateful passengers. She refused the proffered gift for some time, and said she had only done her duty, and the knowledge of having done so was all the reward she asked. However, she finally accepted the money, and said it should go to educate her children. 
               The railroad company built her a new house, gave her and her children a life pass over the road, and ordered all trains to stop and let her get off at home when she wished. But the employes needed no such orders, they can appreciate all such kindness-more so than the Directors themselves. 
               The old lady frequently visits my old home at H--, and she is at all times a welcome visitor at my fireside. Two of the children are attending school at the same place." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               THE HERO OF THE SHOPS.-A WINTER OF DISCONTENT. 
               One of the earliest circumstances of interest affecting our characters which transpired at Lamoyelle, occurred to little Frank Weston. He had been temporarily set to watch the shops, which, being new and immensely valuable, required extra precautions, especially against fire. Large placards notifying persons not to smoke on the premises under penalty of expulsion were conspicuously distributed about the buildings, and the different watchmen, detailed from time to time for additional security, were specially enjoined to strictly enforce this rule. Now, it happened that soon after the establishment of Division Headquarters at Lamoyelle, and while little Frank was still on watch, as a matter of safety and convenience, the committee of directors arrived on one of their periodical tours of inspection. They passed a day or two going over the works in a body, and the President's son became so accustomed to his father's presence, and so secure from recognition from the transformations wrought, in himself, by time's rough handling, that he no longer avoided meeting the venerable official, and, so far from repeating the emotion Ned Livingston had witnessed at Pickatonic, took absolute pleasure in putting himself in the old man's path. There was no particular motive in this eccentric conduct, but he seemed to derive a degree of satisfaction from masquerading unknown under the very nose of his hard-hearted parent. One day the Hon. John Wolverton Wesley, President Lamoyelle Railroad, etc., was strolling about among the shops by himself. He was preoccupied and absorbed with his own thoughts, and at one point of his peregrinations, probably unconsciously, certainly not with any deliberate intent to disregard an important rule, he stepped up to a forge, and, drawing a cigar from his pocket, lighted it, and went on his way, in imitation of Jerkman, with a cloud of smoke trailing behind him. It did not take long for little Frank to discover this flagrant violation of a regulation he was specially charged to enforce, so he followed up his unconscious progenitor in hot haste, and demanded, firmly but respectfully: 
               "Have you noticed the rule, sir? No smoking is allowed in these shops." 
               The President felt himself in error and the reminder was made with perfect propriety; but something in the old autocrat rebelled against being called to order by such a little monkey. Instead, therefore, of throwing aside his cigar good-naturedly, as another would have done, he continued his indulgence, and, looking down, rather contemptuously, on the diminutive moderator, said: 
               "Very well, young man, I understand. That is sufficient." 
               Frank waited a moment, but as there seemed no disposition to comply with the request he had made, the warning was repeated: 
               "I am obliged to insist on an observance of the rule. You must throw away your cigar, or leave the premises." 
               "Young man, do you know who I am?" demanded Mr. Wesley, angrily. "I am the President of the road, and require no more interference on your part." 
               "Will you not stop smoking?" 
               "No, sir." 
               "Will you leave this shop without force?" 
               "I have told you I am the President. Your perseverance is intended for impertinence, sir, and shall be punished as such." 
               "Any one coming along with designs to destroy these great works might call himself 'president' to secure himself immunity and carry out his plans. And even if you were the President, my orders do not permit me to make an exception of any official, however exalted his position. It is a poor way to prove yourself what you pretend to be, insisting on violating rules which have been made for security to the Company's property." 
                
               "I want no lessons in deportment at your hands, young man," cried the President, enraged. 
               "And I want no more smoking in this shop," cried the watchman, with a voice not unlike the other's. "You must leave here at once." Little Frank took the grim, spectacled autocrat by the elbow, and with the exercise of a small amount of force, marched him unresisting to a doorway, and so out on to the track. Once beyond the limits of his jurisdiction, the watchman raised his hat respectfully to the terribly indignant official, and saying simply. "I cannot do less than my duty, sir," turned on his heel and went about his business. 
               There was a very wrathy President entertained at the Superintendent's office that morning, according to the testimony of Ned Livingston. The order for Weston's decapitation was written by his own father's agitated hand, and for a time bloody work with the guillotine was anticipated. 
               But it turned out at last that the old fellow was a sternly just officer, even though a very irritable old man. When passion had cooled, and he was able to take a more tranquil survey of the affair at the works, it began to appear that the irreverent young rascal was right, after all, in spite of his imperative manner. So, before the departure of the Hon. John Wolverton Wesley, the sanguinary document, penned in his hour of great anger, was destroyed; and instead of Frank's strict construction of duty working harm to himself, he learned in good time that the President had recommended him for promotion to Master Mechanic Carson, and directed Paymaster Jerkman to add ten dollars per month to his salary from that day forth. 
               It was generally regarded as rather a bold stroke for the saucy little watchman, and it seemed especially so to Livingston, who know the relationship existing between Mr. Wesley and Frank, and was aware that the latter had hastily dealt with the former with a perfect understanding thereof. But, on the whole, it was a valuable lesson which had its effect throughout the length of the line. It taught men that where duty was involved they should be no respecters of persons, and that a faithful execution of orders from an authorized source is the surest way to secure advancement and the confidence of one's employers. When the old man's christian revenge, good for evil, was made known to the son, he felt a degree less unkindly towards his miserable parent than ever before since his self-imposed exile from home; but he experienced no regret, for he had only done right. 
               The flight of Beliful and Mrs. Man-Protector Link was a brief sensation to all old Pickatonicers at Lamoyelle, but it was only a nine days' wonder at the best. The Englishman abandoned his chance for a station which was good, and the widow of the late Contractor Link gave up her hopes of the long-standing claim against the company, which was bad, and both vanished from the scene of their hypocricy and long-concealed sinfulness. 
               Jerkman soon married the mysterious "lady from the east," who accompanied him to the inaugural ball. It seems he had long been engaged to her, and as she was willing to take both himself and his pipe, "for better or worse," and his business would not let him go away at the happy hour appointed, she came on alone to make good her plighted word; and a railroad wedding was the result. They had taken a cottage not far from the more pretentions mansion of Rachel Wyland, on a ridge which overlooked the town. Jerkman was a domestic sort of human animal, and, excepting for his inevitable surrounding smudge, an agreeable companion. So the pair commenced life very happily together. 
               But winter came on with his icy tread, and though his footsteps were muffled with copious snows, his presence brought noise and confusion enough, for he proved a hard customer. Time tables became a nullity. Trains went out when they could, which was not often, and came in when the weather permitted, which was seldom. The want of fences was even more seriously felt than in summer, for the drifting snows met no obstacles in their sweep across the open country, and piled up on embankment to an incredible height, and packed into deep cuts and filled them level full with the heaviness and compactness of sand. The road owned no snow ploughs such as are used on old lines through snow countries; but pilots were boarded over, and such rough means improvised for track clearing as was possible on short notice. Funds ran short because communication with Cargo was cut off; and as business was at a standstill, and hundreds of extra men were employed in digging snow, in addition to volunteers from all departments, the want of money was severely felt. On a certain morning which promised fair, but which developed into one of the stormiest days of the season, Ned Livingston set out on a wild sort of train from Lamoyelle, hoping to reach Blendota Junction, only twenty miles distant, and so work his way gradually to Cargo over the connecting road. But the storm became so fierce, blinding and terrific that the train did not even reach Underlet, a station half way to Blendota, before bringing up motionless in a drift which had been cleared away the night before, but which a single night's blow had piled up in the way again. It was a truly fearful time. After several backings and ineffectual "buntings" into the impregnable snow-bank, the fire was extinguished in the two engines, steam went down in the boilers, and it seemed for a time as if a cold grave awaited the few brave, determined men who had dared the wild storm in the performance of duty. Superintendent Wynworth was the hero of this as of every other struggle in the snows of that winter. He accompanied every train which set out from Lamoyelle, however hopeless its chance, and his presence cheered on and encouraged the army of workers who toiled unflinching under his wise directions in the obstructing and freezing element. If the occasion had not been quite so dangerous and serious, it would have been heartily amusing to see this indefatigable official wading about waist deep in the snow and trying to look very dignified and very warm, but only succeeding in appearing very comical and very cold. Sometimes when the locomotives, with an improvised snow plough in front, were drawn back to make a fierce rush at the obstinate impediment, the Superintendent would endeavor to promote the impulsive effort of steam by calling out hoarsely: "Give it to her, boys!-give it to her, boys!-give it to her, strong!" And while the boys were "giving it to her, strong," he would be giving himself something strong from a flask always carried for emergencies. But, on the occasion of which we speak, all efforts for progress were checked and all work for a rescue brought entirely to a termination by the blinding unendurable storm which prevailed. The cold was intense. Digging was useless, for, faster than a hundred shovels could remove it the persevering particles blew back again. The moisture of a man's breath would collect in great cakes of hard ice on his beard, and his eyelashes would quickly freeze together. Exposure for any length of time was inevitable destruction. Engineers, Conductors, Firemen, Brakemen, Section Foremen and others froze some parts of their bodies each time they ventured forth on some errand of mercy. Tight as were the fittings of the car windows and doors, the snow was driven against them with such force by the strong, unbroken wind, that it gradually sifted through the cracks and added to the discomfort within. Wood gave out in the midst of the trouble, and when both tenders and coach boxes were empty, the aspect of things became serious indeed. Something must be done, and done promptly. There was no hope from the telegraph, whose wires sung melancholy songs along the side of the track and rattled in mockery of the misery it would not proclaim to those who might have come with rescuing hands. Already a telegraph operator, a fearless, unselfish young fellow, had climbed one of the poles with great difficulty, and, by cutting a wire and making and breaking connection between ends, endeavored to give notice of the train's perilous situation; but, after waiting with his tongue against the severed metal so long that the skin peeled off it, and both ears were congealed into marble, this hope was abandoned, and despair began to find lodgment in the strongest man's heart. They were burning the car seats for fuel, and the few half-frozen passengers were clustered about the stove, silent in the apathy of vanishing hope, when Dan Daley, Head Brakeman, came in from the baggage-car and said determinedly: 
               "Somebody loan me a few more wraps and I will foot it back to Lamoyelle and bring help." 
               There was no lack of scarfs, comforters, shawls, mittens and gloves thrown quickly at his feet. The Superintendent objected, for it was a hopeless undertaking, and he felt that the brave young man was seeking to throw his life away. Dan insisted, however, and when women and children joined their wild entreaty to the boy's firm demand, Mr. Wynworth reluctantly consented, and gave him the flask which contained something strong for a companion. Dan Daley set out on his dangerous errand, well wrapped from the cold, and with blessings and prayers enough showered on his head to have freighted a ship. He went away with a smile on his brave, youthful face, but it did not seem possible that any who bade him good-bye would look on him ever again in this life. He was quite out of sight from the moment of leaving the car, for the storm was intense, and if possible more furious than ever. But no sooner had he got beyond recall than Superintendent Wynworth regretted having let the boy start on such a foolhardy adventure. He swore "a blue streak," out of hearing of the ladies, of course, and put in some oaths so original, and so diabolically hot, that one might have warmed his hands by them, and got burnt in the operation 
               Not to prolong the agony of this cold slice of history, let us say that Dan Daley succeeded in reaching Lamoyelle, after hardships untold, that he made known the incredibly bad state of affairs seven miles down the track, and, not satisfied with this, placed himself as guide on the pilot of the rescuing engine, and directed its progress towards the scene of distress and anxiety. 
               The Superintendent had faith in a subsidence of the storm, and looked to the hope of a messenger being able to reach Underlet before night, and bring out both wood and provisions in a sleigh, which would take back the more timid and feeble. But the obstinate storm did not go down with that night, and all would have perished but for Dan Daley. But alas for the brave boy who saved all these lives! 
               He was mistaken in the location of the snow-bound train-and no wonder it seemed farther off to him, so tediously long had been his tramp over the distance-and as the relief locomotive required to be run very rapidly in order to pass through the drifts which lay thick in its path, and as neither guide nor Engineer could see six feet ahead, a collision with the invisible, half-buried cars was inevitable. 
               Fortunately for the half-frozen passengers a great bank of snow had piled up against the end of the rear coach, and, when the locomotive struck, this operated to some extent as a cushion, and broke the force of the shock. But Dan, in his anxiety and faithful watchfulness, was between the hard end of the engine boiler and the end of the car, and the compressed drift buried him, and the pressure killed him. They dug him out with difficulty, and when the stalled train was dragged back very slowly and sadly to Lamoyelle, the trucks shrieking horribly as if they possessed human feelings and were sorry for poor Dan, it carried to the arms of a fond widowed mother and two loving young sisters the stiff, icy form of a hero as true and as worthy of immortality as any that ever went down in the hot storm of battle. Who doubts that it is nobler to perish in trying to save than in seeking to kill? There was nothing left now, for those who loved the Brakeman best, but to bury him under the winter's white mantle, and thank God, amid the bitterness of their sorrow, that the end had been sudden and painless. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               A GOLDEN BUBBLE-ON THE VERGE OF A STRIKE-BROKEN DOWN. 
               One of the first acts of Livingston and Lamble, when affairs became settled at Lamoyelle, was the establishment of a Club In memory of the old days on the bluff-top, they called it the "Pickatonic Club," and its members embraced a majority of those who had been fellow-laborers in the temporary town. The rooms of this association were over a store a little removed from both the station buildings and shops of the railroad, but pleasantly located and hansomely fitted up. They contained, among other things, a Standard American Billiard Table, manufactured expressly by the great house of Phelan & Collender, and a Steinway piano. These articles were regarded rather as necessities than luxuries, for it has long ago been decided by competent authority that the game of billiards is no less valuable as a mental discipline than the study of geometry, and far more agreeable; and that music is an indispensable promoter of harmony in social organizations. The Pickatonic Club was a prosperous and most flourishing society, with a growing library and plethoric treasury, and, so far as the Lamoyelle line is concerned, was the source of more pleasure and benefit to its members than dozens of Unions or Protective Associations. There was no need to unite for security against wrongs on the part of the employers, for each individual servant of the company was so unvaryingly faithful in the discharge of his duties that there existed no cause, even had there been a disposition, for imposition on the part of managers and officials. No act of injustice ever emanated from headquarters at Lamoyelle, and, with a single exception, no unreasonable demands ever originated among the hundreds of employes who lived and labored there. The exception came about in this wise. An unknown man appeared among them, pretending to have discovered enormously rich gold-yielding quartz at a certain locality in the Rocky Mountains. The place was represented to have been previously inaccessible on account of hostile Indians surrounding, and the plan of this party was to organize a considerable force and take possession of the invaluable treasure with implements of warfare, as well as implements of mining. It was believed that millions could be picked up easily in a few weeks' time. Many of the boys listened eagerly to the father of this visionary scheme, who came down from Olo; and those who did not actually furnish him money, for the furtherance of his plans, at least believed in him implicitly, and begun to grow restless and discontented, and openly lamented the ties of family or other insurmountable obstacles which held them back from participation in this glorious undertaking. Thousands were promised as each man's share per month, and here they were working through the same length of time for the poor paltry sum of sixty, or eighty, or a hundred dollars, possibly The gold man from Olo worked a revolution. It was discovered that a majority of Lamoyelle railroaders had signed the tempter's paper, and insured themselves, arms, ammunition and tools, to drive away Indians and reap the huge harvest of yellow metal. The Chief went up to Cargo to purchase supplies, and his blind, foolish followers were rapidly completing preparations to break their connection with the road. Those who were doomed to remain were driven to madness by the thought of a slow accumulation of money, while their comrades were going off to gather gold by the ton. An insane longing for gold roused a spirit of mischief, and before the appointed departure of the army of deserters, the stay-at-homes stood on the verge of a strike. There was some excuse for them, for their heads were quite turned by the bright visions of wealth the enchanter had created; but they never reached a rapture. Before anything could take shape, Ned Livingston went down to the great engine-house one day, and, finding the men lounging idly about in a very had humor, he mounted the bumper beam of a locomotive and made them a speech. It had a good effect, for he sowed in their breasts a doubt of the Olo adventurer, and decided them to wait and be assured that the great prosperity of their brothers-which they envied-was a reality. Stedboy, who was always sneaking and listening about, heard a part of Ned's appeal, it appears, in which sympathy and kindness were expressed, and he went away and represented that "the Coroner was stirring up dissension among the workmen." His lying report made some trouble; but when, in the end, it appeared that Ned's speech saved a strike, much credit was given to the lover of Rachel, and much discomfiture resulted to the intended of Felicity. The Olo wizzard never returned from his expedition to Cargo, and the bright bubble broke, and the golden dream vanished. There is no better commentatory on the honesty and true heartedness of Lamoyelle railroaders than the fact that a majority of those who were robbed and deceived by the trouble-breeding rascal from Olo retained their firm faith in his sincerity and honorable intentions, and believe, to this day, that he meant to fulfill everything that was promised, and was prevented by accident, or circumstances which could not be controlled. So much for the one shadow of trouble which threatened a disturbance of harmony at Lamoyelle. The Pickatonic Club has been powerful in its influence for good, and has so promoted the brotherhood of employes that they do not feel the want of any other association. 
               One night, at the conclusion of a little entertainment, which Rachel Wyland had given to railroaders exclusively Ned Livingston and his friend Lamble, who kept up their former intimacy in spite of jealousy's gaunt spectre which stalked between them, dropped in to the club rooms for a smoke. There was a sudden change in Charley's demeanor for the worse, and Ned believed something painful must have happened up at Rachel's; but he forbore to question. 
               It had long been evident to a friend's searching eye that the young Conductor's health was failing, and the friend who observed it was none the less sorry because he fathomed the reason. 
               "Are you taking proper care of yourself, Charley?" Ned asked as they came down from the ridge together. 
               "O, yes," was the reply. "I'm well enough. Do I look feeble?" 
                
               "Not very, yet," Ned said kindly; "an indifferent spectator would perhaps discover nothing amiss in your appearance. But something is wrong, nevertheless, Charley; you cannot deceive me." 
               "What is it?" 
               "That you can tell better than I. Perhaps you are working too hard, for one thing. These night runs through the early spring coldness and dampness must be trying to a person in more perfect health than is yours. You should remember that you are not over strong, at the best, and need to be careful." 
               Lamble only laughed incredulously at his friend's fears; but he made no reply, and went forward singing as if to exercise the blue devils which haunted him. After the two reached the club rooms he became thoughtful, even melancholy again, and no sooner had they lighted their cigars and seated themselves in an unoccupied apartment than Charley broke out with, "Dreams, dreams-nothing but dreams which are destined never to be realized. And what if they should? They would not bring with them one-half of the happiness one looks for and anticipates. Work, work is the only true happiness, my boy. It is ten times harder to sit still and think about than it is to perform. O, if the world's idle dreamers and romancers would only believe it, and go to work." 
               "What has got into you?" cried Ned. 
               "Nothing," replied Lamble, "I was thinking aloud. It seems to me I want labor more engrossing and absorbing. I am getting to be too much of a dreamer, and thinking wears me out." 
               Then soon the familiar whistle of the approaching train summoned them away, and arm in arm they hastened towards the Station House. 
               Ned noticed some unusual emotion in Lamble as they walked, and said: 
               "You are trembling, Charley; are you cold?" 
               "A little," he answered; "it is devilish chilly coming out of that close; hot room." 
               "Button your coat across your chest man. You are foolishly imprudent. There, that is better." And Livingston adjusted the over garment to suit himself. 
               "I wish I was rich," Lamble said, impulsively, after a brief silence. 
               "Why more so now than ever?" 
               "Not more than ever," he returned; "but you know I'm a greater sinner, Neddy, and am too poor to be forgiven for it. I mean, of course, by the world. I hope heaven takes no account of such distinctions?" 
               "I think we have both been better taught than to believe such a thing," Ned said. 
               "If I were only rich," continued Lamble, "who would care enough of my past, good, bad, or indifferent, to rake over the embers of its faults and follies. Who, do you suppose, would look with anything but leniency on my errors if the retrospect were gilded with a little gold? I might have committed the worst of crimes, and they would be kindly forgiven and forgotten by the world, if only I had money. Don't you believe it?" 
               Ned only answered by saying: 
               "You are not in a good humor to-night, Charley-you are not like yourself." 
               "O, I am indeed," he returned quickly, "or I am just coming to myself, which is quite as well. The trouble is, Neddy, the world won't let a man lead an honest life, if he has once gone astray. He may repent; but he had better die the very moment that repentance arrives, for he never can regain an honorable place among mankind. He may go far away among strangers, and toil and struggle and gain at last perhaps just a glimpse of the old life from which he has fallen; but there will always come, between him and peace, some hand to dash down the sweet cup from his lips and push him back into the shame of his transgressions. And each fall leaves him lower than before. Who can stand it? Energy gives out at last; hope deferred sickens his heart; and, discouraged and disgusted, the effort to be a man again is relinquished. It cannot be. O, what a warning my wretched life should be against taking the first false step" Lamble spoke earnestly and rapidly, and there was unusual emotion in the tones of his voice. 
               "And how has this trouble come back upon you?" Livingston asked. 
               "Not through you, Neddy-don't think that I suspect you of exposing my secret, even to set yourself first in that woman's regard," Charley said tremulously; "but she knows all, I am assured of it. You cannot smother the echo of such faults as I have committed, there is no use in trying. Rachel Wyland is too kind to tell me that my history is known, but from words that were spoken last night I am certain that she has read the fatal chapter of my life." 
               "Well," said the Coroner, bewildered by conflicting emotions, "Rachel Wyland is a good woman; she is your friend; can you not trust her with the truth, and trust to her discretion?" 
               "Neddy do not pretend to misunderstand me," cried Lamble, excited. "I love Rachel Wyland, and her knowledge of the past I have hidden so long has destroyed my last hope. Old fellow, I know that you too have laid your heart on this shrine, and I have never taken advantage of you, so help me heaven, nor sought to stand between you and your desires. But I have never been able to discover from Rachel's demeanor who it was she preferred until to-night. Now I know it is not Charley Lamble, and that is enough. I give her up to you, Neddy. Win her if you can, and be happy." 
               It was midnight, and they stood on the station platform watching the headlight of the coming train. As Lamble ceased speaking the hissing locomotive rumbled noisily past them and halted with a pitiful shricking of brakes. According to custom, Conductor Lamble stepped aboard for a stroll through the coaches and a preliminary survey of the passengers now transferred to his charge. He passed through the first car, but had scarcely entered the second when he came rushing out breathless and agitated, and staggered, like a drunken man, into Livingston's outstretched arms. 
               "My God!" he cried, "Orlena Galliomi is there" 
               "Is it possible-are you sure?" 
                
               "Yes, certain beyond doubt. She is faded and haggard and old since we met; but the face I could not forget. I cannot go out with this train; put Langham in charge and call another Baggageman. Worlds would not tempt me to meet that bad woman face to face with this new sorrow fresh in my heart." 
               Ned promised to attend to everything and sent Lamble off to bed. When business was looked to and needful men supplied and a fresh locomotive, impatient and furious, had taken its place at the head of the train, he remembered that little Frank Weston, now promoted, was the regular Engineer on this run, and went forward to the engine to speak to him. The little man greeted his friend with enthusiasm, as usual, and wondered at so late an appearance. 
               "I have come to ask a delicate question," said Ned, plunging into the matter impetuously for want of time. "Do you wish to see your wife?" 
               "That is a stunner," laughed little Frank gaily; "pray why do you ask?" 
               "I have reason to believe she is a passenger on this train." 
               "Indeed! How should you recognize her?" 
               "That involves a secret which belongs to another. Suppose you come and see if my suspicion is correct." 
               "I don't care for my own sake ever to look upon Lara Monteno again, Liv.; but if I can see the woman you suppose to be her, without being visible myself, I will do so to satisfy you." 
               "That is easily managed. I will indicate to you the window by which she is sitting, and from the darkness without you may look in unobserved." 
               They went along together to the side of the train, and the little ex-clown studied briefly the face of the woman who had wrecked so many men. Even as he gazed she was bringing her blandishments to bear on the last deluded victim who accompanied her. 
               "The slut," exclaimed Weston, in a burst of indignation; she is fast wearing out, and I might not have known her but for the arts she employs to fool men. There is no mistaking her acting when she has ends to accomplish. If we go into the ditch to-night, Liv., it will be because that shameless hag of hell is aboard. I am glad you have seen her and I am glad to read traces of decay in her dangerous beauty; but the sight of her awakens no emotion but disgust. It is all for the best. Thank you, Liv.,-good night." 
               In a few moments more the train was rushing away in the darkness, and Ned Livingston stood alone on the station-house platform. And hope burnt high in his heart, for now the only barrier between himself and Rachel was voluntarily removed; and that same evening he had found his lost photograph-the one which mysteriously disappeared from Jack Howland's album-between the leaves of a book in Mrs. Wyland's drawing room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               ENGINES AND ENGINEERS-SIXTY MILES AN HOUR-UNDER THE HEADLIGHT. 
               It was the bright, beautiful springtime again when Ned Livingston, Coroner, Assistant Paymaster, etc., resumed his recommended equestrian exercise on the back of the iron horse which winter had interrupted. Occasionally a literary gentleman would be found among travelers on the train by which our late Secretary hurried from point to point for the purpose of sitting on suddenly deceased cows, pigs or sheep, and as often as they desired it (not the cattle but the authors) permission was easily obtained to give them a ride on the engine. Brief extracts from the published report of these trips Ned Livingston carefully preserved, and they are here reproduced as giving perhaps as good an idea of an interesting class of men as can well be supplied. "Howard," a new New York newspaper correspondent, writes thus of his first exciting ride on a locomotive: 
               "Twenty-nine miles in thirty minutes! Describe it? Impossible. I have always noticed that Engineers were quiet, dignified, sober people, and now I understand it. I should regard a joking, trifling Engineer, as I would a jolly, whistling undertaker. 
               Describe my ride on the locomotive!-Never. The whistle nearly blew my ears off; the rushing air nearly wore out my eyes; the joggling of the engine as it leaped from rail to rail, all but broke my backbone off; my hat, which was blown away in less than a minute after we started, was caught by the Fireman in a miraculous manner; and every nerve in my body jumped, squirmed and wired, as relentlessly the iron steed kept up to 'time.' 
               Now the head of a luckless hen was neatly taken off; then two Hibernian gentlemen, who were quietly smoking by the road-side, were apparently frightened out of their wits, and before they had recovered them, we had rushed frantically, fearfully by a station, in such close proximity to a freight train that I held my breath and trembled lest the next second should be my last. I had no idea before of the manner in which an engine 'jumps,' but I have now. While we were going at this terrific speed, while the mileposts succeeded each other so swiftly that they seemed like fence stakes, and while the various growths of wheat, oats, potatoes, and corn looked as if they were planted in a heap, the engine would jump, leap, skip, and roll, like a frightened horse, and in a 'dreadful unsartin' manner. After a little I became used to the unnatural rush with which we were going, and had more leisure to watch the Engineer. 
               He was as calm as a May morning. He pulled a rod, and an unearthly scream was heard. He pushed another one, and the speed, already like that of the arrow's dart, became that of the lightning's flash. All was under his control, and I could but admire his coolness, the firmness of purpose and quickness of execution which he unconsciously exhibited. No wonder that he is a quiet, uncommunicative person; he deals with facts, between which and unrevealed horror there is but a hand's breadth, whose coming at any moment can only be warded off or remedied by his skill. I was glad, and yet sorry, when the twenty nine miles were finished; glad because physically I was about used up sorry because I was mentally fascinated and charmed by the novel sensations experienced during the ride." 
               One who writes modestly under the simple name of "A Traveler," discourses as follows: 
               "The Engineer is not only one of the most responsible men connected with the running of trains, but one whose services are seldom appreciated by the public. The Superintendents, Conductors and others are often complimented for their efficiency in the discharge of their duties, but of the man who holds the reins of the 'iron horse,' under whose care and protection all are placed who take seats in the cars, and to whom they are indebted more than to any one else for their safety, little is thought or said. 
               The duties of the Engineer require his undivided attention upon the engine, seldom affording him an opportunity to form the acquaintance of his passengers-unless under the most adverse circumstances, such as delays, accidents and that like, and at such times, his duties are often passed under the most rigid scrutiny by those not at all conversant with them-and should an accident happen, through oversight or inattention on his part, he is invariably handled with the most unmerciful severity. 
               The Engineer, before starting the train, must see that his engine is properly oiled, and has a supply of wood and water, and be sure that his train has the right of WAY-which is of vital importance upon all single-track roads. After leaving the station, which he will do with caution, he must examine his time-table, and bring his train up to the speed required by that document, and at the same time keep a good look-out ahead, and see that everything is right for his train, and that there are no signals made indicating danger. He must keep the water properly adjusted in the engine. Over our illy-constructed roads a fast train requires long experience and the closest attention on the part of the Engineer. Not only the statutes, but the dictates of humanity compel him to sound the alarm at the numerous carriage crossings-for people are often crossing who care as little for the engine as the engine does for them. Notwithstanding the utmost endeavers of the Engineer, many fatal accidents occur at these crossings. Long bridges and high embankments must be passed with care, all stations must be approached with caution, and in no case be entered until the Engineer is sure every thing is all right for the reception of his train. 
               Add to these cares the disagreeable and debilitating jar of the ponderous machinery over the already worn-out rails, and we are not surprised when told that ten years is the average life of the locomotive engineer." 
               Here is the briefly narrated experience of a writer in the Atlantic Magazine:
                
               "Let any one who believes the day of daring is past, beg or buy a ride on the locomotive of the earliest express train, some cold winter morning. One wave of the Conductor's hand, and the live engine springs snorting beneath you, as no Arab steed ever rushed over the desert. It is not like being bound to an arrow, for that motion would be smoother; it is not like being hurled upon an ocean crest, for that would be slower. You are rushing onward, and you are powerless; that is all. The frosty air gives such a brittle and slippery look to the two iron lines which he between you and destruction, that you appreciate the Mohammed fable of Bridge Heart-thinner than a hair, sharper than a scimetar-which stretches over hell and leads to paradise. Nothing has passed over that perilous track for many hours; the cliffs may have fallen and buried it, the frail bridges may have sunk beneath it, or diabolical malice put obstruction on it, no matter how trivial, equally fatal to you; each curving embankment may hide unknown horrors, from which, though all others escape, you, on the engine, cannot; and yet, still the surging locomotive bounds onward, beneath you in its mad career. You draw a long breath as you dismount at last, a hundred miles away, as if you had been riding with Mazeppa or Brunechild, and yet escaped alive. And there, by your side, stands the quiet, grimy Engineer, turning already to his tobacco and his newspaper, and unconscious, while he reads of the charge at Balaklava, that his life is Balaklava every day." 
               Mr. Benj. F. Taylor's "First Ride" was thus "written up" for a journal at Cargo: 
               "We mounted the iron horse, or rather got upon his rump at Lamoyelle. The Engineer was a silent, sober-faced man, as beseemed his calling. His assistant, the Fireman, was a silent sober-faced man, and before many minutes had transpired we were a silent sober-faced man. He first pulled one lever one way, and shoved another lever another way. We clenched the first projections which presented themselves, and mounted a seat which commanded a fine view of the smoking head and mane of the monster, and admirably adapted for a flying leap should circumstances require. The shirt-sleeved, sweaty Fireman threw armfuls fuls of wood into the red hot vitals; underneath our feet, a clanking and rattling jar of wheels; all around us, the hissing of steam from various vents; and above, the deafening and rapidly increasing chee--chee-chee-che, che, che, ch-ch-ch-ch-c-c-c-c-c-and off we dashed, over the prairie, through the forest; rattled over bridges and whizzed through cuts, at a pace to which John Gilpin's ride was snail-like. 
               The Engineer said nothing, but stood statuelike, his hand upon the throttle and his eye fixed upon the distant converging rails, on the alert for any danger or obstruction; the Fireman still hurled the wood by armfuls beneath the glowing boiler; we held with a tighter grasp, and looked anxiously for sand-banks along the sides of the track. Underneath us, seemingly, ten thousand blacksmiths were hammering ten thousand anvils; the tender and baggage car were describing an indefinite number of Z's from one side of the track to the other. Now the huge monster shook, as if in an ague fit; now it jumped, seemingly, a foot from the track into the air, as if striving like a giant to burst its bands, spurn the narrow iron ribbons which held it, hurl into nothingness the sober-faced, serious man, who, with his puny but knowing strength, directed and curbed it at his pleasure. From every pore and crack, the imprisoned spirit of steam hissed and bubbled, but the iron ribs were strong. It was the triumph of mind over matter; man with his puny strength, holding in his grasp and directing and controlling the gigantic and terrible force of matter. 
               After one has become accustomed to the horrible din of the machinery and the fearful apprehensions that the engine will leap from the track every minute, there is a terrible fascination in this headlong ride. You forget that the gulf between life and death may be spanned by a hair; you forget all the trivial causes, a fallen tree, a loose rail, a broken wheel, which may in the twinkling of an eye hurl you to an instant and horrible death. You look at the serious, sober-faced Engineer, he is calm and understands his business. You lean upon him and guage your apprehensions of danger by the expressions of his eye. We soon laid aside all uneasiness and were surprised to find ourselves watching a distant ox and wondering how far the engine would hurl him, should we have the good fortune to hit him. We only desired to ride faster. We were not satisfied with steam, we wanted lightning. Though we outstripped and left behind, flocks of fleet pigeons, it seemed that we were lagging. 
               We never before comprehended the nerve requisite to a good Engineer. They who ride behind him, on soft-cushioned seats, little comprehend the responsibility of his situation; the keen eye, quick and strong hand, the firmness and presence of mind requisite for his dangerous profession. Henceforth we doff our hat and pay our devoutest reverence to the serious, sober-faced man, who holds the reins of the Iron Horse." 
               Once Livingston found Rachel Wyland on the train at Blendoto Junction. She was just returning from a visit to Cargo. A restless sort of a Bohemian, this beautiful woman was never contented very long in one place, and became an inveterate traveler by rail. For the sake of a new sensation Ned proposed to her, on this occasion, that she should try the experiment of a ride on the front of a locomotive. There was a spice of adventure in the fair lady's composition and she gladly consented. Old Flop, who was Engineer, never questioned the propriety of the proceeding, which would scarcely have been approved at headquarters, but gave permission most gladly and seemed flattered to have his engine thus honored. There was a long stretch of straight, level track between the Junction and Underlet, and here, as the danger was less and the prospect more charming, it was resolved to give Rachel a brief taste of genuine excitement. It is not, as might be supposed, a difficult or perilous thing to ride above the bumper beam on the front of a locomotive. On the contrary it is the easiest and safest as well as the most fascinating position about a swift-moving train. There is generally a hand-rail running around the end of the boiler for additional security to those whose business calls them by day and by night all about the clanking machinery, but its aid is not needed when you once stand erect in front of the head-light. The jar and the lurching so deafening, and painful in the cab of a locomotive, which is located more nearly above drivers, are imperceptible out over the track and the pilot. Noise and dust, and lateral motion are left to the rear, and even on a track not remarkable for its smoothness, there is nothing but a comparatively silent, rapid, exhilarating rush through the air. You seem to be sailing on water or floating through the atmosphere rather than rumbling along an iron pathway; and with the earth apparently slipping away beneath your feet and the country ahead developing itself like magic and quickly dividing and sweeping past on either side, the effect of such a ride is thrilling in the extreme. 
               Fearlessly Rachel took her position, bravely she maintained it and deeply she enjoyed the peculiar sensations of the occasion. Of course, Ned Livingston stood beside her, prepared, with a strong arm and a stout but very excited and fluttering heart, for any emergency. But all thought of danger is dissipated after a few moment's experience. The lover looked upon his idol with a passionate admiration never equaled before, though his love had been growing and strengthening for a year. By accident or design, and who shall say which, where a woman is concerned, Rachel's little straw hat blew away over a fast fleeting meadow, and her masses of hair, long and dark, escaped from confinement and floated back on the soft summer air. A lace shawl which was drawn round her shoulders, crossed on the bosom and tied close behind for security, revealed the fine outlines of a form that was matchless, and as the dark fleecy drapery of her garments fluttered gracefully about her, and her trim little feet, in black gaiters, became visible, it was enough to turn the head of a cold marble statue. How should a youth already in love withstand such enchantment? One perfumed tress of her soft, waving hair swept directly across the young lover's flushed face, and he felt that his heart's holy secret must now be laid bare, or the heart which contained it would burst with emotion. So he told Rachel Wyland the story of his love. Wildly, passionately, and with the eloquence of sincerity and the hot fire of youth, he poured out the torrent of his worship. No matter for the words, no matter for the position, so strange so unprecedented. Each sentence fell painfully on the fair lady's ears, and when she found she could not check him, and the torrent must flow on to exhaustion, she stood with her proud, handsome head drooping low, her long lashes falling over eyes that were filling with tears of regret and repentance, and her graceful form trembling at sight of the conflagration she had kindled. Perhaps she asked herself, with a pang of self-reproach, if the damage had all been accomplished unwittingly, unconsciously? Leave the question to an answer from her own aching heart. When Livingston had finished his impetuous outpouring of fathomless affection, Rachel Wyland was weeping most bitterly. 
               "O, Ned--O, Mr. Livingston," she commenced, "you are wrong to take advantage of this time-of this place. I have cared for you more than any other I know, and your regard has given me pleasure and pride; but--." 
               A long, piercing whistle of the panting locomotive broke in on the lady's explanation, and the train glided on through a swarm of waiting passengers into the station of Underlet. "Let us speak of this matter no more to-day, Mr. Livingston," said Rachel, concealing as hastily as possible all traces of trouble and tears. "Help me back to the train, and leave me for the present, I pray. If I have been to blame you must forgive me and be my friend still. I never dreamed of such a scene as we have had-let us both forget it." 
               In silence Ned Livingston assisted his goddess to alight from her pedestal, and in silence he escorted her back to her seat in the train. Then he passed through into the baggage car and sitting down on a trunk tried, with all a man's energy, and all a mule's determination, to look the dark future, fair and square, in the face. And as no one disturbed him he retained his position and sat motionless and speechless like one who has followed the example of Lot's wife, and looked back, and been transformed. And thus the train carried him back broken hearted to Lamoyelle. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               REJECTED MATERIAL-A MODEL STATION AGENT-A JOYFUL JOB OF WELDING. 
               On the following morning when Livingston lay prostrate in his darkened apartment, Isaac Logan intercepted a messenger from Rachel Wyland, who was the bearer of a note, and took the small missive himself to Ned's bedside. He was seeking his friend for a bit of advice on family matters, and hearing that the Coroner was ill, thought to lessen his disturbance by diminishing the number of visitors and thus, unconsciously, became the means of communicating a new shock to one already cast low in the dust, and one whom he would not have pained for the world. Ned greeted his protege kindly, in spite of his trouble, as Isaac, now a Baggageman, came bowing into the room like a Chinese mandarin in a tea store. This excessive obsequiousness was Isaac's great fault. He was so nervously polite that one salutation never satisfied him, and he always kept his head bobbing through an interview, as if when it got going it forgot how to stop. A thrill of great gladness stirred Livingston's heart at the sight of Rachel Wyland's neat writing on the tinted and perfumed envelope, and hope kindled up in his soul, as he never expected it could do again. But he laid it aside, for a moment, to listen to the brief story of a young woman's heroism. It seems that Isaac Logan's only sister had long ago married a very poor man, and completely disappeared from the Still Hollow region, and passed ultimately out of her unfortunate brother's knowledge. From bad to worse the young married pair passed down the ladder of misfortune, until the husband became pumper in an old, wayside water tank, where wild trains, and trains on construction, stopped once or twice a day for the filling of their tenders. Isaac had neither seen them nor heard from them for years, when one day the train on which he run was obliged to take water at this desolate spot, on account of some damage to pumping machinery at their usual watering place. The day was hot, and the Baggageman being thirsty, ran into the tank-house for a drink while the engine was taking its supply. Imagine the poor boy's amazement to discover in the pumper not a man, as he had anticipated, but a woman-and that woman his own and only sister. Her husband, never strong, had worn himself out at the trying, health-destroying labor of incessant pumping, and, a few weeks before Isaac's discovery, had died from the effects of over-exertion. Then the wife, poor and friendless, living in a region where neighbors were few and powerless, took up the hard job her dead husband had laid down, and, unknown to everybody, toiled on uncomplainingly to keep up a slender revenue for her family of little children. We need not follow the boy through his account of the meeting with his sister and the recognition that was both sorrowful and joyous. Ned Livingston listened with patience to the narrative, and promising his influence with railway authorities to secure relief for the poor, brave woman, sent the good brother on his way rejoicing. 
               When once more alone the sick man's now hasty and unsteady fingers tore open Rachel Wyland's small note and read, tearfully, as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           My Dear Mr. Livingston:-If I could have forseen the possibility of such a scene as we unfortunately passed through yesterday, I should have been frank with you long ago, and thus saved us both needless pain. But believing you cared for me only as a friend, the secret I am about to communicate seemed as well unrevealed, and I indiscreetly buried it in the depths of my heart. I am not a widow, as you have naturally supposed, for my husband, though no longer at liberty to thwart and control me as formerly, and never more to be, to me, other than a stranger, is still living. We did not agree, and to avoid the scandal of divorce courts, separated by mutual consent. I will not add to what I believe is sincere disappointment and regret on your part by declaring that if this barrier were removed my feelings are such as would leave the way to happiness entirely clear before us; but I may say, without harm, that my regard for you as a friend is so deep and sincere that I regard with indescribable distress the misunderstanding which has come between us. Once more I solemnly declare that I am innocent of any design to mislead or deceive you; and, once more, I ask, humbly, your forgiveness if my thoughtlessness and imprudence have been the means of leading you into error and trouble. I am going away for a time, believing it wisest that we should not meet again until some pangs of the present have been conquered and yesterday's imprudence is forgotten. So in tendering my confession and submitting such poor explanation as is possible, I must also bid you, for a time, farewell. 
                           
                              RACHEL WYLAND.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Cruel, heartless, cold!" groaned Livingston as he tore the note into fragments and cast them on the floor. 
               Perhaps he was right. Let the reader judge. 
               When the ache of this first fearful shock passed away, as the sting of most mortal blows must pass in good time, Ned Livingston was left so unfitted for work and with health so shattered and uncertain, that he procured a good long leave of absence, and determined to go abroad and recruit. 
               But his departure was delayed for the fulfillment of a promise to Si Parrington. The handsome Engineer was to be married in June, and great preparations were making at Bloom for a very large wedding and a joyous one. All "the boys" were invited, from one end of the line to the other, and though comparatively few could be present without neglecting the business of the road, when the party were assembled it was a most imposing crowd, notwithstanding. 
               Mark Reno had often been called "a model Station Agent," for he was not only prompt and correct in his dealings with the company's officers above him, but he had a commendable way of expediting freight business in times of great pressure and hurry, and thus making possible in a given time a heavier arrival and departue of merchandise than others were able to accomplish. He was courteous to all the road's patrons, and never on any pretext declined a favor to a friend, or even a stranger, when respectfully addressed. He was above the assumption of magnificent airs in his intercourse with those whom circumstances placed at his mercy, and scorned the petty affectations of some of his class who pretend to be always so overwhelmed with responsibilities, and overburdened with business cares, that they cannot lift a finger in aid of a fellow employe. Mark Reno could any day find a moment of leisure for, at least, a civil answer to a civil request, and his co-operation with and consideration for freight Conductors, in their vexatious and sometimes bewildering labors at switching and getting cars in and out correctly, were so marked, and praiseworthy, and exceptional that he stood head and shoulders above his fellows for promotion. Every one liked and respected the "Model Agent" thoroughly, so when his fair daughter was to be given in marriage to the handsomest Engineer on the line, the event possessed an interest for all his wide circle of admiring acquaintances; and large as was the crowd that swarmed his hospitable mansion that day, every one was a friend.
                
               Ned Livingston was not selfish, whatever his faults, and he nearly forgot his own sorrows in seing his friend Si made happy. He learned, for the first time, at the wedding, the story of Nora's introduction to her lover, and the painful but romantic accident which brought them together. Nearly two years before, on one of his earliest trips over the road, Si's engine ran into a carriage at a crossing near Bloom, and demolished the vehicle, throwing its occupants, a lady and gentleman, to the ground. The lady was sweet Nora Reno, and the gentleman her father. Both were stunned by the fall, and lay senseless beside the track when Si brought his locomotive to a halt and ran back to the scene of disaster. He lifted the fair girl in his arms, and, entranced by the loveliness of her pale gentle face, fell in love with it as he bore her tenderly but expeditiously to the train while others carried her lifeless companion to the same destination. Depositing Nora with some ladies, who kindly improvised a couch for her in a passenger coach, the distracted and self-accusing young man hastened back to his engine and, to bring the unconscious lady to a place for restoration, no less than to make up lost time, he gave his iron steed loose reins, and dashed into Bloom with the speed of the wind. Neither Mark nor his daughter were much hurt, as it proved, but both had narrowly escaped a sudden death, and Si could not forgive himself for the harm he had done. Bloom was then, as long after, a terminus, and the Engineer having alternate nights to pass there, as well as every other Sunday, made a business of devoting himself to the Station Agent and his daughter as some slight return for the unintentional injury done to both. He was not satisfied with words of apology alone, but every service a son and a brother could have done he gladly performed for the two people he had nearly knocked out of the world. Such devotion could not go forever unrewarded, and Nora, having nothing to give him in return save her heart, bestowed that very gladly; and Mark, having nothing to give him in return for his share of kindness save a daughter, at last bestowed her on him. But this latter was done regretfully, even though cheerfully and with confidence. 
               The wedding was a grand success in all respects. The bride was dressed beautifully, and the scar on her delicate wrist was hidden by a bracelet which was the gift of Ned Livingston. Si looked happy enough to be envied by an Emperor, and handsome enough to be married to an Empress. His arm, so long helpless, was at last well and strong again, thanks to good care, and as he drew his fair wife to his side when the ceremony was ended, and whispered in her ear the sweet words, "mine now forever," she felt that a hero's strong arm and a hero's brave heart were good for a woman to lean against through the struggle of life. 
               Most of "the boys" who had girls of their own, and stood hesitating and trembling on the verge of matrimony, made it possible to be present on this joyous occasion, and most of them brought gifts for the bride, some of which were not costly, perhaps, but carried more heart with them than goes with the conventional wedding presents of the wealthy in what is called "society." 
               And thus amid champagne and plum cake, music, merriment and dancing, was performed a joyful job of welding on Cupid's anvil. 
               And the blessing of the parson, who acted as blacksmith on the occasion, was echoed most heartily by the army of helpers who gathered in the sacred smithy, and stood around the holy forge of hymen. And many were the silent prayers sent up to Heaven, petitioning the Guardian of Mankind to clear obstructions from life's untried tortuous track, down which these two fond hearts must henceforth run together. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               A CORPORATION WITH A SOUL-A GENERAL DOUBLING UP-SHUTTING THROTTLE AND SETTING BRAKES 
               Republics may be ungrateful, but railways are not, always.
                
               Dan Daley's old mother and young sisters were generously adopted and liberally pensioned by the company. They also built a monument above the dead Brakeman's resting-place, and recorded in marble the great act of heroism by which he sacrificed existence in the cause or humanity. 
               And Isaac's brave sister and her children were, at Livingston's suggestion, considerately provided for and permanently placed beyond want. Isaac freely lent a hand and shared his slender purse, with his usual unselfishness, and the lady was not idle in her day of better fortune; but five helpless children needed clothing, education and a home, and these were provided, and a yearly sum added to the family's small income, which the rich corporation did not feel, from its abundance, but which was a blessing incalculable to the grateful little family whose limited treasury it augmented. Si Parrington was allowed his full pay for the four months of compulsory idleness which followed his accident at Still Hollow, and his wages were increased; and Chet Langham awoke, one fine morning, while still faithfully and uncomplainingly following his humble pursuits, to find himself Train-master of a division, with headquarters at Lamoyelle. It seemed a tardy recognition of his unquestionable abilities, but proves that his valuable services were not forgotten, and that reward for well-doing was not refused or disputed, but only postponed to a season when appreciation could be wisely and more effectively manifested. 
               And the company, or its executive, even had mercy for Ned Livingston's ston's "pain in the side," (for which Cargo physicians recommended rest and a voyage) and granted him a holiday for six months of wandering in Europe. 
               And never on the line of the Lamoyelle road was a hurt, or a loss, or a sacrifice, incurred in the company's service and in the power of man to heal, or restore or reward, but the balm, or the bounty, or the compensation, were, sooner or later, forthcoming from kindly and generous hands at headquarters. It is true that large bodies move slowly. But it is not invariably true, as is popularly believed, that corporations are soulless. If the men who compose them possess human hearts, and justice and mercy find lodging therein, they will not be wanting in soul. And most of the great railway leaders, directors and managers of America are men of large hearts, open purses and superior wisdom, appreciation and humanity. 
               After Livingston's departure for Europe, Lamble's restlessness and unhappiness increased to such an extent, and his health became so feeble and threatening, that, even if other reasons had not determined him to resign, he must have left Lamoylle very soon, at the best. With many regrets he turned his back on the old place he had learned to be fond of, if only as the scene of much suffering, and went away to the South. Here, in a more genial climate, his doubtful health mended, and, as the haunting spectres of his errors and disappointments faded gradually out of his recollection, great success crowned his efforts on a newly built railway, and peace and prosperity rewarded his efforts to atone for the past. To-day he is Master of Transportation of a line which his labors have helped to make wealthy and powerful, and news of his marriage and settlement in a thriving young city, on the banks of the Mississipi, has lately been received. His theory that work is the great panacea for troubles of the mind and the heart, has proved true, for it has given him oblivion from remorse, and enabled him to forget Rachel Wyland. 
               Rachel got a divorce from her husband, as soon as it became possible without publicity, and when Livingston returned from his wanderings abroad he found his late sweetheart just married to a wealthy old codger of Cargo, and settled down to a life of dissipation in that great pleasure-loving city. When little Frank Weston heard of Rachel's harsh treatment of his dearest friend "Liv.," he pronounced her "a devilish old daffodil," which was a botanical idea, original and spiteful at least, if not very pretty or appropriate. Present or absent, his affectionate devotion to Livingston remain uninterrupted. When the latter set foot on his own native shores again, Frank's fortunes were wonderfully changed; but Ned was not aware till long after that the position of Assistant Treasurer, which awaited his acceptance, was secured through his little friend's influence. But such is the fraternal character of railroad companionship. 
               Little Frank was much injured by a smash-up, while Livingston was absent, and when he thought himself dying he told Jerkman the story of his life, and requested that his father be sent for. The Hon. John Wolverton Wesley arrived from Long Linden, and coldly and incredulously went to his son's bedside. There doubt turned to certainty, misbelief to conviction, and a recognition and reconcilation, dramatic and sensational, took place. The cold-hearted President warmed up to a melting point, and his iciness thawed into copious tears. At this time Frank seemed sinking, and the pathos of the scene in his bed-room is described as most touching. But the tough little clown would not die, and bitterly, for a while, he lamented having yielded to the weakness of sending for his parent. He had a good mind to die, just to escape from authority once more. Yet, as the marvelous change in the old man developed itself, and his son saw how sorrow had chastened and softened the stern domestic tyrant of his earlier recollection, he was drawn to him in pity, and before his deep wounds of the body were healed, his heart's plated armor had been pierced by compassion, and the past was forgotten and forgiven. Once well again, Frank refused to leave Lamoyelle on any consideration, and would no more have given up his engine than he would have deserted a friend whom he loved. Indeed, he declined all promotion, all change, all emolument, and would only be reasonable with his father when consent was obtained for the resumption of an Engineer's gineer's duties, and submission to such advancement as was honestly earned. He was not long in earning it, for, by some valuable inventions in machinery, his ascent of the ladder of distinction was rapid, and to-day he is Division Superintendent of a railway which runs into Cargo. It is his preference to be connected with a road on which his father has no influence, that the suspicion of favoritism may be avoided. But the power he has with the head of the Lamoyelle line is used very freely for the benefit of his friends and late companions, and those who have not been induced to transfer their allegiance to the road which he manages, are prospering where they are, through his means. He traces his success to the teachings of good Father Tom, in old Pickatonic, and soon, when legally released from the tie which has bound him so long to Lara Monteno, he is to marry Chet Langham's fair sister, Marion. 
               Miss Felicity Flint has become Mrs. Stedboy, and Joe Glow and his Dorothy Dare have been allowed, by the prudish old aunt, to follow her into the unexplored region of matrimony. The report is they like it; but life's road is a long one, and they yet may find a switch turned aside which will lead to collision and trouble. Let us hope for the best, though we are not permitted to follow and see. 
               Jim Hook has been wedded to Miss Lily Layfield of Salell, and is happy. 
               Extract married the ponderous widow who flourished on his elbow at the inaugural ball, and according to the world should be now most miserable, for she has proved a new thorn in his much lacerated side, and neglects her good husband for other men's smiles. She will certainly desert him entirely, before long, and he forsees it. In every sense she has been too much for him. But nothing ever clouds the incomparable brightness of his kind, sunny nature. He still consumes bark as an antidote for the poison of all of life's ills, and when his wife finds it agreeable to desert, as the indications are she will soon, it is probable the amiable Conductor will console himself readily with his favorite remedy, and turn a smiling face to the world. His ability to be contented and good-humored, under circumstances discouraging and depressing, is peculiar to himself and impossible of imitation. No other than a railroad man could have cultivated such an agreeable disposition. No other in any position would have met with such success. 
               Brother Shirtrip and Mother Leonardi were married, and in time became citizens of Lamoyelle. But long before the period of transfer from Pickatonic, Miss Clotty Leonardi had fled from her ambitious old mother, from her favorite barrel which had taken her so many rough voyages on imaginary seas, from her rum-scented home and its pleasant surroundings, to the arms of the designing Count d'Orsay. The fellow never meant to marry her, that is certain, for he took her to obscure and homely lodgings in the suburbs of Lamoyelle, and, keeping his elopement and establishment secret, continued without interruption his baggage-bumping business as if nothing had happened. But the lady's reverend step-father followed them up very closely, and finding them breakfasting in their quarters one morning, he married them in spite of themselves. Clotty evidently did not appreciate the moral advantages of the proceeding, for she was inclined to be harsh with poor Rip, and opened on him her battery of slang. 
               "Daughter," he asked, "do you intend to cling to this creature for life?" 
               "You bet," was her characteristic reply. 
               "Then I must proceed to join you in the holy bans, my children," he remarked, coolly producing his prayer book in a professional way. 
               "O you git," Clotty cried. But her laconic hint was disregarded, and while the two chewed tough ham and burnt toast, and splashed about in a brown fluid absurdly called coffee, the shoemaker-parson applied his moral black wax and stuck the pair together. Whether it was binding and durable, matters not. The step-father's duty was thereby discharged, and the mother's delicate and refined ideas of propriety preserved from further outrage. 
               But Madam Leonardi, on the whole, led Shirtrip a hard, sorry life. The poor preacher, under her assumption of the unmentionable garments he once agreed, conditionally, to loan, rapidly degenerated into a lachrymose, sniveling old patriarch whose vegetable nose required constant attention. He tried preaching for a while in Lamoyelle, but met with more exacting and critical audiences than in primitive and temporary Pickatonic; and, as his personal appearance was comically unclerical, and his violent manner of slapping the pulpit cushion, invariably reminded every one of a schoolmaster spanking an unruly urchin, producing irreverent merriment in church, the desk was reluctantly but permanently relinquished for the bench where his awl had lain rusting, and he went back broken-hearted to the labor of saving men's souls with leather and pegs, instead of by precept and prayer. His wife very often quotes Scripture as a means of consolation and now and then reminds him that, "Them as strains after gnats and swallers calomel must expect to be took down." 
               But his aqueous organ of smell is a source of much grief and anxiety to his gentle companion, and she is frequently obliged to suggest in low, dulcet tones, the need for an application of bandana: "Rip, dear, your snoot," she is constantly saying, with an accompanying nudge, when they are in company. Whereat the patriarch waxes very wroth, and with each interference grows more and more impatient, attacking the soft, watery potato at last with such fierceness that spectators expect to see it detached from its succulent surroundings. 
               By the liberal patronage of railroaders, they prosper, financially, and pegging and patching bring in quite as much money as mixing and flavoring. 
               Poor Lazarus should not be forgotten. It was the miserable fate of this fatigued little animal to fall into the hands of old Borie, who purchased him at the "Coe's" bluff-top sale, and the shock of such degeneration and such questionable companionship proved too much for a constitution already enfeebled by a diet of musty hay. He died of disgust soon after the railroaders' retreat from Pickatonic. 
               And, now, having arrived at our intended destination, it is proper to pull in on the side-track, shut off steam and set our brakes. The shuttles tles of iron will continue their rushing and weaving while we rest from our travels; and the friends we have met along the line will go on in their various ways just the same as when we were at hand to observe them. 
               Still, if the reader's enjoyment of this novel excursion has been equal to that of the writer, who now sadly resigns his position as guide, companion and friend, it is possible that the acquaintance thus formed may be renewed in some fortunate hour of the future, and that fate will yet grant us the treat of another railway journey together. 
             
            FINIS. 
         
       
       
          
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1870, by BROCK L. McVICKAR, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. 
            
               BIRNEY HAND, Steam Printer 
               111 Madison Street, Chicago Ill.
             
          
       
   
