
    ----CITATION----
        Hosmer, Margaret, (1830-1897). Ten Years of a Lifetime .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6815
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Ten years of a lifetime
             
                 TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. BY  MRS. MARGARET HOSMER, AUTHOR OF ; THE MORRISONS." NEW YORK: PUBLISHED BY M. IDOOLADY, "8 BROOME STREET. 1866.     Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1866, BY M. DOOLADY, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.   TO MARK   BRUiMAGIM, ESQ. THS STORY IS G6ATErFULLY AND RESPECTFULLY INC8RIBE1 . i BY THE AUTHOR. r       ;c4F e r I  r r I i   CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. PAGB The  M illiners .................................................. 15 CHAPTER II. A i Alarm ........... ..........................................   23 CHAPTER III. Addie's Dream ...........; ..................................     80 CHAPTER IV. Mr. Siebert   ........... ....... ......      ...... ... .  87 CHAPTER"V. Midsummer Nighlt at the Rooneys .............................     49 CHAPTER VI. Addie has a Glimpse of High Life ....,........................ 68     8              CONTENTS.        ,  CHAPTER    VII.                  I  Mourning Work............. ........................         " CHAPTER     VIII. Mourners.  .......... '                     o -X 81 CHAPTER IX. Addie's Sympathy............93.......................  CHAPTER X. Addie's Confidences................................ .t00 CHAPTER XI. The  New  Lodger ...................................... ....  108 CHAPTER XII. Dick  Lavaridge ...................... .........................  CHAPTER     XIII. A  Confidential Visit ....................            122 CHAPTER XIV. Tea  at Tod's .............       ................................ ... CHAPTER XV. An  Adventure.................................   CONTENTS. CHAPTER XVI. PAGE Miss Norah's Fever .....................  ..............      144 CHAPTER XVII. A Dawning Knowledge of Evil .........    ,.............  .   151 CHAPTER XVIII. Addie's First Glimpse at Love .. .... . .. ................. 156 CHAPTER XIX. Addie's Progress .....   ..........   ..  ..  ........................... 164 CHAPTER XX. Father and Daughter .............,....   ...................... ... 173 CHAPTER XXI. Miss Norah's Holiday .......................................... 179 CHAPTER XXII. Uncle and Nephew  ..................         . ........ 189 CHAPTER XXIII. A Las Night for two of theI Household ................... ..... 197 CHAPTER XXIV. The Inquest .......... ............. ........................... 206 *                    l0              CONTENTS. CHAPTER XXV PAGIC An Empty Cage ................ ....................    ......   214 CHAPTER XXV I. A W idow .......................................... 2.1. CHIAPTER XXVII. Addic's Flight ...................................          229 CHAPTER XXVIII. lMidsummer again ............................................. 240 CIIAPTER XXIX. Tod's Establishment ........................................... 246 CHAPTER XXX. Miss Debby's Relations...............     .......................... 255 CHAPTER XXXI. Customers.   ....................................' ..........     264 CHAPTER XXXII. A Miserable Man .............................................. 70 CHAPTER XXXIII. Mrs. Farron at Home ........ ................................     279 27   CONTENTS.     -   t1 ClAPTER XXXIV. PAE A Spectre from the Pmst .............. ... * * ................. 288 CHAA'TERI XXXV.  Jenny .............. ..... . ........... .... .... . . .. ....* * * 297 CHAPTER XXXVI. Kitty's Entertaiument.. .... ................. *.*........... 97 CHAPTER XXXVII. Lily Campbell'as Bit, of Fun........ .......... ..*.*.,*........ . 8 04 CHAPTER XXXVtII. Miss Farron as a Philanthropist ....,.............. ... .e...... . 3" CHAPTER XXXIX. " Festivity    .... .. *.............*...... . ......... a. .1a.0 "I..' CHAPTER XL. An Encounter.. *     . * **i 4** .******* 322 CHAPTER XLI. Kitty's Adventures . .. ..............  327 CIIAPTER XLIIl A Moment's Respite ......... .o , ,**** ********e** *e ** . * 333     12              CONTENTS.              .       ! CHAPTER XLIII. PA  The Discourse of Mr. Fry ..................      3....,.    3 .35 CHAPTER XLIV. Masked and Warned ...................................        843 CHAPTER XLV. On the Ferry-boat ............. .......57...................... CHAPTER XLVI. Jenny comes to the Rescue ..................* ............... ...  365 CHAPTER XLVII.  Driven to Desperation .............. ................      3 CHAPTER XLVIII. To-morrow's Bride      .................................  38" CHAPTER     XLIX.                   .I A Postpouement .........382......................  CIIAPTER     L. Irs. Wharton becomes Troubled and Confidential B89.............    89 CHAPTER     LI. . Dick's Little Story ....................  *..... B97.  \                               , . .I so *** .      *   CONTENTS.               13 CHAPTER LII. The Majesty of the Law outraged ............................... 404 CHAPTER   LIII. Raking over Ashes .   .  ....... .......  .......... ................. 407 \        CHAPTER LIV, A Fat her Found and Lost ..............     .   ............ 413 CHAPTER LV. Another Midsummer Nig]t ...............  ... ...,.............. 416 / ,       * 1 '                   r     P i Z r I r   TEN YEARS OF A LIFETI;ME. CHAPTER I THE MLLINERS. IN the times of which I write, a fine roomy house in the down- town part of an eastern city, that had originally been an aristocratic family mansion, was so far fallen from its old state and grandeur as to be used by the Misses Le Roy as the emporium of their fashion- able Parisian millinery. To this end its carved and corniced parlors displayed in each of their broad low windows a matchless and priceless bonnet, placed there to allure the passers-by to the know- ledge and contemplation of their- art. Not that the Misses Le Roy trusted to vulgar-patronage or chance orders ; they were blest with a connection of such elevated pretensions that they could afford to despise transient custom. Fine old-fashioned carriages blocked up the street in front of their establishment during the busy seasons. Exquisitely dressed; soft-voiced ladies fluttered like butterflies over their blossoms of bonnets; footmen in plain livery brought cocked-hat notes to them, with orders and suggestions from their patronesses, and the Misses Le Roy were indorsed by the fiat of elegant popularity when they pronounced 'themselves "Fashionable Parisian Milliners." The ladies had not arrived at this delightful autocracy without many an effort, however, the most apparent of which was the e     16       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. change of their name to suit the taste of the gay world whose patronage they desired. They. were originally Elinor and Deborah Macllroy, a pair of handsome, bright, keen-witted Irish girls; and when assuming their position as high priestesses at the altar of taste, they had altered a few letters in their cognomen to render it more euphoniously acceptable to the ear of fashion, they had, no doubt, hailed with gladness a change that seemed to separate them in their present life further from the past, for they had seen better days, and were both well-taught and well-mannered women. In talking to them, one intuitively surmised thus much of the  Misses Le Roy, but nothing in their bearing or conversation re- called bygones ; they had put away all such remembrances when necessity obliged them to assume their present position, and worked together cheerfully and harmoniously, being great favorites with both employers and employed. Miss Norah, the elder, had been very pretty; she was a trifle faded now, though not old--a little worn, and sad in manner-- with a pair of fine dark eyes and a pale, grave face, thoughtful and quiet in her speech, as one given to gentle melancholy, yet neither inactive nor dreaming in her habits. In right of her position as elder she was regarded as head of the family, and in her place transacted all the business of the es- tablishment. It was she who received and paid away all moneys, bought goods from the merchants, went to New York to get pat- terns and styles, and, furthermore, rented out and supervised the apartments belonging to the house, which were not in use by the family. Miss Debby, the younger, was unlike her sister in every thing, being ruddier, rounder, and in every way in meriier mood and better keeping. She had that gay and inextinguishable humor that nothing could daunt, and she laughed and sang as she worked at any thing and every thing, having no particular department of her own, except the trimming. Without being as lovely as her sister, she had undeniable claims to beauty in a rosy mouth filled with shining white teeth, and the prettiest, softest pair of little hands imaginable, that coquetted with ribbons and French flowers to produce marvels of elegance and taste.   THE MLLINERS.           17 ,iThis ability was highly prized in the work-room, and Miss Debby exercised over all articles there manufactured the right of com- mendation or disapproval. She would pucker up her pretty mouth and wrinkle her face all over with, efforts at frowning, if the least failure in arrangement or color met her eye, and the peculiar finishing stroke her pretty hands gave every thing was always alluded to as "Miss Debby's touch," and without it nothing was allowed to leave the establishment. The Misses Le Roy's household was a limited one, none of the 'girls" being boarders; but economy forbade that they should occupy the spacious house alone. The business skill of Miss Norah developed itself in furnishing the front first floor, consisting of one large and one small room, into an elegant parlor and chamber "suitable for a gentleman of means," as their advertisement stated. The back rooms were, occupied by an artist, a quiet old man, who painted neatly but without inmagination, and who picked up a busy living "filling in" the pictures of more fortunate painters. The second floor was divided among a party of gentlemen who dined at a French club, and used it only to smoke and t ake whatever little sleep they could catch after twelve o'clock it night. They were esteemed by Miss Norah as good lodgers, for they never reap- peared after departing in the morning until that late hour, and thus avoided disturbing or annoying the "connection" with their noisy presence. Counting these, the artist, and the gentleman of means, who turned up sometimres twice a year in different guises, as a wealthy Southerner, an English gentleman, a French count, etc., there was but little room left for the occupancy of the Misses Le Roy. Nothing, in fact, beyond the parlor floor, the basement, and the attics. It was all they needed, their lives were in their business, and its demands and interests occupied them completely. The two parlors, covered with a worn but still imposing Turkey carpet, adorned by two tall cheval .mirroirs sofas, ottomans, and centre-tables for the display of goods, accorded but ill with the bare, dark, damp kitchen, and the still barer attics above ; but, il the one and the other their lives were passed. Besides the parlors there was yet another apartment on the same floor, appertaining to f  t      ,        III     18       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. them in years past as a library or study of some sort, which was now used as the workroom, and contained within its four walls the life and gayety of the establishment. Here Miss Debby sate enshrined as presiding genius, while her sister received orders and customers in the rooms without; and here half a dozen merry girls stitched and snipped silks and velvets, and joked and chatted over them as fearlessly as if their future wearers Vere not the lite of the land, but mere flesh and blood like themselves. The moment a bonnet was bespoken it received the appellation of its owner, and was apostrophized, complimented, or abused under that head. Thus the names of the elegant dwellers in the abodes of fashion became " familiar in their mouths as household words," and were bandied about laughingly as their representative articles approached completion. .  One morning in the beginning of the spring season the work- room, in which order was no habitual dweller, but only a forced guest, departing as soon as come, was one maze of bonnet-frames, flower-boxes, buckram, crape, lace, and ribbons; and Margaret Todd, who was a sort of forewoman at Miss Debby's right hand, began to call, Addie! Addie I Can any one tell me where that little minx has gone?" An odd sort of child, that looked too thin and wiry to be quite comfortable, suddenly presented herself at the third repetition of this summons, andismoothing her restless face into an expression of quiet attention, listened respectfully for further orders. "Addie," said Miss Todd, peremptorily, {" where were you when I first called?" Addie glanced round the room, and the meekness of her aspect increased. She made an apologetic cough or two, and then said deprecatingly-- "I was only up the waterspout." "Up the waterspout!" said Miss Debby, looking critically at her clothes. "You're all torn in bits, I suppose."'  "No, I aint," said Addie, triumphantly pulling up her sleeve, and showing a long jagged scratch on her arm, through which the blood was oozing slowly. "You see the good of them loose sleeves ;   r THE MLLINERS.            19 they fell back and got saved beautiful."' With that she applied her lips to the :wound and drew it together. "There's splinters in it," she explained, "but I'll get them out easy ; and I wouldn't gone -up, but I heard a kitten a-mewing, and I was afraid those Tom- kinses hadn't done right by that little gray one we give 'em a" "'You're enough'to sicken any one with your cats, you and Kitty Donahue together," said Miss Debby, not at all severely. "Go in with this frame to Miss Norah, and ask her if Miss Todd will cover it for Mrs. Dolbert; it's the only one we have large enough.'" The. girl went in instantly, and, soon returning with the answer, balanced herself from one foot to the other in the doorway, as she A) inquiredd- "Do you want any thing more before lunch-time? If you do, say it now, 'cause I'm going to cook for Kitty, who has an errand to go." "Then away down, and get at it as quick as you can," returned Miss Debby, " and the dear help us if we have to eat your cooking." The little, creature, who was not so short as she was exceedingly spare in figure, had those peculiar gray eyes that flash into black or soften into blue, and an abundance of short, curling hair, that from its dartk hue gave the little face about which it clustered a sort of elfish aspect. She wore a comfortable dress, with a trim- ming of bright braid on it, about which she was quite conscious and quite proud. The girls all seemed to look on her as a sort of plaything, but she was to all intents and purposes a servant in' the house, and brought there some six months before to supply-the place of a levanting boy, who had been supposed' to go errands and wait on the door, when his real occupation had been warbles in the back street. Addie, as soon as she received her mistress's permis- sion to depart, availed herself of it, and reached the back basement by a series of leaps performed by placing one hand on each side of thW staircase and bounding down four steps at a time. There was a bare floor in this part of the house, from which the * lead-colored paint was partly worn away; two' windows, so low down that the greenish bricks in the yard could only be Been     20       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIMi. - -'       . I - through the top panes; two tables, some chairs, ad an old wood- stove that made the kitchen very warm in summer, and only fright- ened off the frost on winter nights.  In one corner stood a great leaky sink, with coils of water- pipe winding into it like some great oozing snake, and a monoto- nous drop that fell from it at intervals like the tick of a ghostly clock.              t Addie found a coarse-featured, dar -Jlecxioned womani stand- ing in the doorway, in a plaid shawl and eess bonnet, equipped for walking.  "Yer come, are ye?" said this female, in a voice whose tones were rather hard than harsh.. "Thin, jist fall to, and fry the pata- ties and brile that bit ov ham for the ladies, will you?" Addie nodded, and drawing up her sleeves rolled them round her arms, and tucked them under. She afterwards took down from a shelf and shook out a coarse apron, that completely envel- oped her in its breadth. "Don't be fashing a body wid yer airs," said Kitty; "yer enough to make me kill meself wid laughin', to look at ye trailing around in the big apron. I wonder what keeps Miss Norah." She spoke with her head out at the door, and her eyes expect- antly turned on the staircase. Addie said nothing; she knew that Miss Norah always came down and conferred secretly with Kitty Donahue before she went out on such missions as this, and that there was some mystery connected with them, as they were the only expeditions of that trusty creature's life. By and by, when Kitty had become uneasy, and had gone to the door to glance up the stairs, and come back again disappointed, Miss Norah ap- peared. She seemed nervous and flurried, and said in a low, de- jected tone-- "You needn't go, Kitty. I have no money left; the bill came in for the velvet a week earlier than I looked for it, and I'm left now with a bare penny to come and go until the first of the month." Kitty shook her head. "Och, miss dear, ye may look for trouble, then," she said warn-   THE MLLINERS.           21 ingly. "Sure, it's better to make some sit and let me g, nor to be in dread of a disturbance." Miss Norah seemed irresolute. She stood biting her pale lips, and appeared to think. "What can I do?" she asked at length. "I could send in the bills with the bonnets that are finished to-day, but it would seem strange; and being out of dur usual custom, I could scarcely explain the necessity. No, Kitty; I cannot help it, and we'll have to face whatever trouble comes of the delay." "I have some little change put by, that I beg yer lave to give esilf ; I wouldn't make bould to say it, Miss Norah, but being the case it is, and I trust 'ye'll think no shame for the liberty I take." Kitty was red in the face, and full of confusion, as she pressed into her mistress's thin white hand a faded leathern purse, which sheqtook from her bosom. Miss Norah glanced at Addie, who was discreetly chipping the potatoes into the frying-pan, and still keeling her eye on her as she spoke, said faintly- ' You're a good girl, Kitty, but I cannot accept it. It's enough that you do as you do for us, without our taking any further sacri- fice from you. A. day or two will make it no worse than it is, if you'll go and explain matters, and give our promise for the first of the month."  Kitty took back the purse from her outstretched hand, and nod- ded her head in reply. "Ye know \vhat's for the best better than I can tell ye. I'll go and bring y6 back word how things look; but ye know I'd be made up entirely if you tuck this from me, for I'm just bothered kaping it." She held it out half persuasively, half timidly ; but poor Miss Noral/slhook her head without speaking, and ran up-stairs again. Kitty turned round to Addie, and followed her energetic move- ments in the culinary line with a curious look that was half amused, half critical. Addie being perfectly conscious of the inspection, worked the .                            , 1      22       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. faster, and flew from the table to the stove, and thence to the" dresser, armed with a great spoon, and exhibiting intense activity and preoccupation of mind. Kitty drew her great, ungainly shawl about her, and laughed loudly. "Och, but yer the wonderful young jaynius 1'" she said, as she reached the basement door. L See that ye don't overdo yerself till I come back, and mind to put the blue plate forninst Miss Norah, and the ould chaney cup for her coffee; she's the ouldest, and takes it be rights, ye know."' So she went out of the door leading up into the yard, and cross4 ing the paving of dark-green bricks, passed out into -a little blind alley that led into a back street. The instant she had gone, Addie ran and looked after her, and returning to her task, allowed the potato to brown and the ham to '- frizzle undisturbed, while she stood cogitating, her head thrown back and her eyes on the ceiling. "Where is it that all the money goes to?" she said to herself, under her breath. "Miss Norah looks at me when she talks, aud that means that I am not to know every thing. Kitty wouldn't tell me if I asked her, and I don't mean to try. I would like to find it all out for myself; and I will, too." Coming to this conclusion, she dashed her big spoon into the pan, and whizzed the scraps of potato about quite recklessly ; then, in a great haste, spread a bit of table-linen on the worn pine leaf that she raised for the purpose, and,. according to Kitty's directions, proceeded to lay the cloth. "The blue plate" had once been a piece of fancy china, beauti- fully painted and gilt, but it was now faded and fire-stained into a match-piece with the mended cup and saucer at its side. They had all been new once; so had the thin, long spoons that embellished them, and the queer, rickety castor, that was the crowning feature of the board. When it was all arranged, and Addie stood surveying her han- diwork with pride, Miss Debby appeared, and saved her the trouble of announcement, by sitting down at once and waiting on herself with alacrity.   AN ALARM.             23 "For I'm as hungry as a hunter, Addie," said. she, " and my sister will be here in a little time. There's coffee, is there? Then give me a cup, for I like it strong ; and you can weaken it for Miss Norah.' Miss Norah soon followed, but, taking her place silently, sat brooding over her cup when it was poured out for her, and made no attempt to eat her dinner. This her sister observed, and seemed to lose her own appetite in consequence. After watching her with wistful eyes for a little time, she said-- "Oh, Norah, what's the good of grieving? there's nothing new in the way of trouble; we should both be used to it by this time."' Norah's only reply was a slight motion of her lips and a glance of her eye in Addie's direction; after which she hastily swallowed her coffee, and, without further effort to eat, rose and went slowly up-stairs, sighing as she went. i/ CHAPTER II. AN ALARM. ADDIE being no more needed up-stairs that day, applied herself earnestly to the tidy arrangement of the kitchen against Kitty's return, which was so far delayed thatg the little housewife had time to wash up every thing in an old japanned basin, with a great waste of soap and economy of hot water. The domestic conveniences of the establishment were most defective : a long wisp of something looking like damaged crown-lining answered for a towel, and with its aid she entangled herself with the plates and cups, and polished off the dishes till her face grew red with exercise. The cooking utensils, consisting of four articles-a battered saucepan, that had lost all definite form or color, a little copper tea-kettle, whose     24:    \  TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. original metal could only be guessed at, and a tin coffee-pot, that was as black as its companion, the little round frying-pan.  These all underwent a washing of such energetic character, that poor Addie, in its execution, was smut to the eyebrows. Then she! breathed awhile, and, surveying her handiwork with satisfaction, went at it afresh, with renewed vigor and clean water. There wa s a dejected-looking kitten crouching in the shadow of the stove, and sniffing at a few scraps of ham in a critical, -dissat- isfied way, to whom Addie now addressed herself on the subject of a stumpy broom with which she was armed. "I am agoing to sweep, Cleopatra," she explained, " so you mustn't be offended if I take away your plate and whisk the dust in your eyes. You don't like the ham, do you? Never mind; after Kitty has her tea, we'll give you some milk, if there's any left. And now sit up there on the table, and see' if I can't make this place just shining, when Kitty comes home.' To this end she applied the unbending old stub, that was use- less except as a scatterer of dirt; and not resting there, brought a bucket without a handle fioom the dark area outside, and with more soap and the same long. draggled cloth that had done service with the plates, proceeded to thoroughly wet and very imperfectly dry the dingy floor, and do great damage to her own knees and elbows, by dropping down on nails, or backing into corners %r against doors. All personal inconvenience was swallowed in the pride with which she regarded these improvements when accomplished, and she was obliged to again take the kitten into her confidence on the subject. "Do you see how splendid we look now, Cleopatra?" she asked, "You keep up there till it dries a little, and then I'll give you your milk ; for Kitty don't seem to be coming. I hope she'll like the way I've cleaned up. Oh, I forgot the table; you must get down this minute, and let me rub it off." --  -,Assisting her in this sudden descent, Addie put the cat on the damp floor, across which she accomplished a high-backed sidewise promenade, until she gained a little dry spot under the stove, where she rested as on an Ararat of safety.   1' AN ALARE   .          25 The afternoon wore towards night, and Addie had splashed herself well in her efforts to remove the marks of her labors, and mending the fire and filling the kettle, had sat down before it and spread her damp skirt out to dry, when Kitty at last appeared in the yard, and priseted to vision the dim outline of a pair of shapeless calfskin laced boots and blue worsted stockings, descend- ing the stairs from without.       / She seemed worried and pale as she entered, and without look- ing round or even glancing at'Addie's improvements, bade her t away up and tell the ladies she was back." Miss Norah was the one to whoml Addie delivered the message, and not a moment followed its hearing till she was in the lower hall, where Kitty stood ready to meet her. "Well, Kitty, what happened?" she asked, eagerly and breath- lessly. Without replying, Kitty made a gesture with her hand, shook her head, und spying Addie's attentive face beside her, thrust her into. the kitchen and closed the door upon her.  ( Not at all' disturbed by. this summary proceeding, the little maid took off the kettle lid to see if it thought of boiling soon, and lifting the creaking table leaf, spread it for tea--not for the ladies, as she soon showed by taking down an old tray and putting the sacred but defaced china thereon. This meal was the great pleasure of Addie's life, as it'had not to be waited for, but could be taken while the ladies swallowed theirs above-stairs, and looked over their day's accounts, or conversed privately on their affairs. "And I believe I'll make some toast, Cleopatra,"7 she said, flushed--ith her triumph as a housewife. "I'll slice the bread now, and put it to brown." She achieved this feat-with much labor and haggling of the loaf, besides a slight cut in the thumb, which she bore with Spar- tan firmness, and treated as she had done her scratched, arm. Meanwhile that low, buzzing murmur that always attended Kitty's voice in a suppressed state went on outside, and Addie tught she could distinguish Miss Norah's agitated tone imploring her to accept something which she flatly refused. This became a cer- tainty when the door opened, alnda Kitty was plainly heard saying- 2     26     I  TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "No, indade, miss, it was a proud pleasure to me, as ye may know, to sarve ye, all' if ye'll look over the liberty, I'll be made up entirely.7             ' A smell of burning bread becoming perceptible as she entered, she dashed forward, and snatching up the slices thla Addie had ranged symmetrically on the plates of the stove, roundly accused her of being "a wasteful young tawpy," to be flying in the face of economy in that way. "You're cross, Kitty," said Addie, coolly. u"I was trying to make a relish for tea, and you ought to be ashamed to say I'm wasteful." "Well, thin, I am ashamed," said Kitty, instantly mollified, "and ye needn't mind the tay for the ladies; they're goin' out as soon as the young people lave, and they'll take their tay abroad the night." Here Kitty threw off her shawl, and explained, by the presence of a most forlorn and hopeless young cat under one arm, the strange and stifled mewing Addie had been conscious of for some time. "Have-you a drop of milk put by you?" she asked. "I found this poor draggled creature lying at death's door in the gutter yonder, an' I brought it in. It'll be a mate for poor Clayopatra, an' cheer her up a bit, the crayture." Addie took the keenest interest in this new arrival, and both she and Kitty lost sight of their own appetites in the effort to induce the wretched cat to do anything but put its forepaws in the proffered milk and mew piteously. At length, afthr their united cajoling and conjuring had been so far successful as to prevail oni the poor wanderer to eat, Kitty regarded it thus occupied with placid satisfaction for a moment, and then sighing deeply, she seemed to recur to some former annoyance. "Take your own bit of supper, Addie," she said, in a worried tone, "and never heed me ; I'm not like mesilf to-night at all." Hearing this, Addie proved her nature to be a sympathetic one. She regarded the elder woman with tender gravity for a while, and then said quietly- ;   AN ALARtL.            27 "I suppose you don't care to tell me what's amiss, Kitty?" Kitty had risen, and was folding up her flaming shawl to put it away withl her gay bonnet, as Addie spoke. She made no immediate reply, but stood smoothing out the lonll, defaced red strings of her indescribable head-gear. "You're a quare young crayture," she said at length, "an' there's nothin' ailin' me except that I'm wake with walkin' an' lost for want of my tay." So saying, and apparently forgetting her former rejection of the evening meal, Kitty drew her chair tp to the table, and attacked the small, black teapot with affected vigor. The zest soon gave out, however, and after a swallow or two of Addie's weak prepa- ration, she paused and fell to sighing and looking troubled agrain. "I wouldn't go out any more if I were you, Kitty," said Addie, observant of this behavior ; "it doesn't seem to suit you, and you say you don't care to go." ; "W  hist now," said her Companion impatiently, '" ate your sup- per, and don't thiouble your mind wid what don't concern ye." "Nothing  concerns me," returned Addie, epigrammatically, "'cause I haven't nothing of my own to be concerned about." Kitty rose and took her bonnet and shawl, and a large, flat- bottomed candlestick. "I'll go up an' lay by my things," she remarked, "an' if you're tired you may lave the? dishes for me.)" "I'm not tired, Kitty, and I wish I could cure' your headache. I know you have one, by your eyes looking so heavy."  Thus say- ing, Addie huddled the tea-things into a pan with a racket, and set the water from  the oozy pipe running over them with great j force, to prove her desire to serve Kitty, and, prevent her making any exertion in which she could save her. Kitty, departing, closed' the kitchen door; the water went on splashing and dashing over the dishes, and Addie fell to musing. "Kitty's grumpy,'" thought she, " that's plain; and she always is so when she goes on these errands for Miss Norah. I suppose it isn't right to wish I knew what they don't want to tell me, but I'm afraid I  do."      28       TEN YEARS OF A LIFEr1TIME. She laughed when she came to this conclusion, and, standing on tiptoe, turned off the noisy water. As she did so, a hand fell lightly on her shoulder, and, uttering a smothered exclamation of astonish- ment, she turned around to face a stranger. It was a man of odd manner, and still odder appearance; he was not well dressed, nei- ther was he well looking, but his garb, though slovenly and ill used, had not been coarse originally, and his face was rather evil than ugly. As he stood before the child, even her young and un- accustomed eye could read his story in his pale sodden features and dull wicked eyes. He was one who had wrought his own ruin; his nature had debased itself, and coarse appetites had changed every lineament of his face from God's intention, even his fine figure had a slouching grait, and his small, soft hands, un- touched by labor, were stained with neglected dirt. One of them, still partly raised, had touched the child's shoulder, and now be- spoke her attention. "Who are you, my chick?" he asked, with a leer ; his voice was husky and unsteady. "Where is the other one?9" he continued. Addie had been startled, as lta half-uttered cry showed ; but now she recovered herself, and, though rather pale, stepped back a pace and caught up an iron spoon. "What do you want?" she said, fixing him with her large, full eyes, that now seemed jet black from excitement. He laughed in a forced, grating way, and reeled back a step or two, in the effort it cost hm. "Don't be frightened, my little hero," he said ; "T came in by the back way, it being easy like, and ye didn't hear me for the noise of the water running. Where's Kit Donahue, my pigeon?" Addie balanced the spoon and watched the new-comer narrowly before replying. "Does she expect you?' she asked, fearing to admit that Kitty was up in the back attic, and that the rest of the family were out, lest he should make a sudden onslaught on the closet and carry off the skeleton-like silver spoons. So she stepped back. He laughed again as he noticed her movement, and placed herself be- fore the door, and then said impatiently-   AN ALARRM.            29 I canIt tell. ye what she expected, but I ask ye again where is she?" Kitty appearing at the opening kitchen door at the moment, saved Addie the trouble of further reply. She started back at the sight of him, and her ruddy face turned deadly white. "Ye promised to kape away, master dear," she murmured, in a frightened whisper; "an' what am I to do whin ye break yer woid?" "Don't be a fool, Kit my girl," said the man, coolly. "If you'd kept faith me, ye might talk as ye do; but if I'm forced to look out for myself, I'll do it." Dont blame thim, the poor burdened craytures," cried Kitty, passionately; "they're out striving to do what they can the night, and ye'll drive them intil their graves if you add a feather's weight to the load."                 The wicked-looking man whistled. "It's all wind to me." he said, " such words as these. I want my bargain, and I'll not be put off., Addic had dropped her spoon the moment she heard Kitty's words of recognition, and stood staring up to this point from one to the other, in unutterable surprise.  Suddenly Kitty became aware of her presence, and recovering her faculties, that really seemed scattered at the first sight of the intruder, she seized the child in one hand and the broad candlestick she had dropped on the table in the other, and hlrriedly deposited them both on the kitchen stairway. "Away up to bed, darlinV'," she cried, excitedly; ' it's late enough, an' ye'll be needed airly." Then, seeing that Addie's thoughts and interest were still with the, stranger, she added, "It's me-me uncle, an' I must spake to him about a  trifle he lint me, that I'm not jist ready yet to pay him."     30       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. CIIAPTER III. ADDI E I S DREAM. WITHOUT in the least degree believing what Kitty told her, A ddie was entirely unable, by any theory or suggestion of her own, to ac- - count for the presence of the man she. had left below, and op- pressed by wonder and a vague sense of mystery, wended her slow way upward in company witlh the great brass candlestick and her own busy thoughts. Her mind was of so active an order, that not even solitude could reduce her to quiescence ; and, there being nothing else in reach, she proceeded to take the candlestick into her confidence. "Kitty don't mind telling fibs," she said, shaking her head gravely at the great battered brass thing; "that's not her uncle, you know, 'cause she has none; and even if she had a hundred, that isn't one of 'em ; any one could see that at the first look." Here she pursed up her mouth, and knitted her brows thought- fully. "She only knows the Rooneys and the Doyles, and he dont belong to any of their families, on account of his hands." THaving arrived at this conclusion, she reached the top of the last pair of stairs, and paused, glancing downwards, as if half ex- pecting to see the subject of her cogitations at the foot. But neither sight nor sound greeted her; all was very still through- out the house. It was long past the old painter's hour for moving about, and had not reached the time when the second-floor people might be looked for; the best apartments were vacant just then, so that there was not a movement to be heard below. Miss Norah and Miss Debby occupied the front attic: it was the larger of the two, and their door now stood open. Addie, in pursuance of her investigating mood, stepped inside and held up the light so as to catch a full view of the apartment; the furniture was spare, but there seemed no end to the things packed away in corners, or standing round the walls, that left but little room for more. low-posted bedstead, an old-fashionedlCest of drawers, surmount- I   ADDIE'9S DREAR.           31 ed by an equally ancient- dressing-glass, and a little table with a show of toilet furniture, completed the list of articles for use. There were no chairs, but plenty of trunks and sea-chests instead, and against the further wall were rows of pegs to tale the place of a wardrobe. Some few dresses werle hanlging from these pins unde'r cover of a faded cliintz spread, that shielded them fromn dust. Addic' raised this with one hand, and scrutinizing the garments gave the result of her conversation in the confidential tones she had already adopted towards the candlestick. "They've worn their poplins, so they must have gone to the Campbellses.1" There was nothing of the bright airy elegance, usually thought inseparable from -woman's taste, iu the arrangement of her own peculiar sanctum displayed in this room. It was not absolutely disorderly or dirty, but its superfluous articles, such as bonnet-stands, boxes of all descriptions, pattern-blocks, etc., were rather huddled Into corners than put away nicely. Nothing was designed for comfort or convenience; from the faded old carpet that only half covered the floor to the dingy damask curtains strung across the dormer windows, every thing had an undeniable air of make-shift about it, and had not even the commendation of being the best the circumstances allowed. One old chest, drawn up beneath the win- dow, had an improvised and backless chair beside it, which was the only seat in the room. It had originally been rush-bottomed, but the frame was covered- with a dingy carpet awkwardly put on, and bursting from its sides here and there for want of a stitch or two. It served a purpose such as it was, you could see at a glance, for - in the lidless old chest was stowed the remains of a library, chiefly books of poetry and romance. They hbd been once gayly bound, but were time-stained and faded like every thing else, and were crowded together without order or arrangement. Towards this receptacle Addie turned with ieyes expressive of affectionate interest. "I'm going to have one of you to read, as soon as I finish learning them dreadful words Miss Debby gave me to spell," she said. "What's- the use in them silent letters as she calls 'em,' she added wrathfully as the memory of difficulties to be conquered     32       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. arose intilidatingly before her. ' What do they go and stick 'em into words when they don't give 'cm any sound. It's just a shame to woriy people so, and I wish they'd let me make a spelling-book, to show 'em how easy it coufid be done." She stooped over the box and turned owr a book or two, read- ing the names on the backs with evident difficulty but great inter-  est. As she did so, her hand fell upon a little brown leather case, not unlike in form and size a copy of the Vicar of Wakefield that she had just laid down. -It was clasped together by two small brass hooks, and opening easily showed itself to be a miniature case containing two little ivory pictures set in gold. Addie placed the candlestick on an angle of the box, and dropping-into the chair fell to contemplating the portraits with. delighted astonishment. They represented a lady and gentleman, and were both handsome, particularly the lady, whp was little more than a girl in years and very lovely. The dresses were old-fashioned, but the faces were full of living beauty and interest that held the eye of the child spell- bound as she looked at them. They seemed familiar, too. The ten- der, sad eyes of the woman, and the' rich waving hair of her-com- panion, recalled some one Addie knew but could not identify. She was puzzled over the likeness that momentarily grew stronger in every feature. "I know them both," said she, thoughtfully, but I never saw them before, I'm sure.2 Suddenly the idea of Miss Norah's displeasure presented itself to her mind, and she hastily replaced the case and catching up her candle retired to her own chamber, It was neither better nor worse than the one she hrdl left, and differed from it only in holding more broken furniture and lescs trunks. There was even some shadow of luxury in a shattered lounge that had lost its two lower feet, and in consequence formed an inclined plane from the head downwards; there was, further- more, an easy-chair, without cushions or seat; and an old three- legged table that stood upright from the support of the wall, where it was wedged in between an old stove and a broken set of book- shelves. On the top of the table thus sustained Addie placed her light, and seating herself on the foot of her bed nursed her knees and looked around.   ADDIE'S DREAM.           33 "If Kitty hadn't' got that secret visitor she would have come up long ago, and we would be enjoying ourselves talking. I don't think it's right in Kitty to tell fibs, and khe has no uncle, I know." In this unsatisfactory humor she went on thinking of the strange man's sudden entrance, his bad eyes, his pretty hands, Kitty's dis- tress, and the pictures she had just seen in the booklchest, till a1 becoming confused together, she lost herself in sleep. Kitty's sur- prised and angry voice awoke her. "What ever tempted you to set up and go to sleep in that shape?" she demanded, giving her a gentle shake to insure her being thoroughly roused. "It's not only burning out candles for nothing, but getting your death of cold into the bargain." Addie rubbed her eyes and stared about her wildly, but did not speak. She had been dreaming, and looked pale and startled as the light Kitty carried showed her face.' "What ails you?" cried the woman, in a tone of alarm, looking er     . at her closely. Still Addie did not speak, but seemed. to struggle 'with some half-dispelled vision. She shuddered slightly and drew long breaths, and continued looking at nothing with a fixed, forced gaze. Kitty grew desperate betwee nxiety and impatience. "Give over glowering in th t way, Addie, and bring your wits about ye," she cried sharply. "This is a pretty trick you're taking to, sitting up till you're as cold as a stone, an' your head turned -vid draming." "Yes, it was a dream," answered Addie, slowly and strength- fully, "you are right, it was only a dream." As if this conclusion gave her great comfort, she repeated it to heiself two or three times, and then, with a deep, long sigh, slid off the bed and stood on the floor, still apparently pondering busily over the nature of her vision as she proceeded slo wly to undress. -:{   "T'The kittens is acting pervarse with aich other," said Kitty, incidentally; she was rather bustling about among the invalid chairs anid things, as if making a. show of unconcern, but yet a side glance now and then at Addie betrayed that she was not unob- servant of her unusual mood. : 'z     84      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. Addie made no answer to this information, and Kitty continued 'with a greater show of briskness--"So I was kept down there, striving to make pace between thim, you see. Clayopatrza, the ungrateful baste, doesn't remimber the night you brought her in out of the rain widcout a dry hair on her, a famished-looking thing, wid her two sides clapped in'from hunger. I gin her a cuff or two to stop her spitting and clawing at the poor crayture I brought home the night. What will we call her, Addie? I mane the new- coller, ye Iklow." Still Addie had nothing to say, but went on steadily, drawing off her sleeves with an absent air, which not only perplexed but provoked her companion. "I'm saying; Addie," she exclaimed, impatiently, "what ails ye anyway? Why don't ye answer me whin I spake to ye?"  Addie turned about and looked at her with sudden attention. "Is your uncle gone, Kitty?" she asked, accompanying her ques- tion with a steady gaze, in which every thing childlike in her face and manner was lost in one absorbing interest. "Oh, tell me about him, please do, for it was of him I dreamed, such a dreadful real dream, that I keep on seeing it and feeling it although my eyes are open." Whatever Kitty's reasons were, she now considered it her duty to get angry, and immediately proceeded to do so, while she watched the effect of her wrath on its object, narrowly. "What's this you're uj) to? Can't I have a frind spake to me widout you making a fuss about it? Sure you're spoilt complately wid the notice that's took ov you, and the liberties they give you in the parlor. If you're to be set off draining by every one you see, we'll have a purty time ov it." , But the impression under which Addie labored was too weighty to be thrown off by Kitty's temper; she only turned away and went on with her undressing in the same preoccupied manner. At last she crept silently to bed and lay with her eyes wide open and, vacantly staring, to Kitty's unbounded provocation, who, after throwing her clothes about violently, snapped the top off the candle between her thumb and forefinger, and tumbled into bed.   ADDIE'S DREAM.           35 After a little silence, during which she had pretended sleep, and imitated an exaggerated snore, Kitty evidently thought better of her harshness, and determined to try another plan. To this end she opened conversation in an entirely different tone and manner by saying-- "I'm thinking ov going up to Rooney's the morrow night; what do you think ov going with me, an- I'll ask Miss Norah's lave for you?" After this insinuating proposition, she waited awhile with- out receiving any evidence of its effect on Addie, who seemed by her stillness to be breathless as well as motionless. The dead quiet alarmed her at length, and rising on her elbow, she passed her hand over the child's face. It was cold as marble, and so was her whole body. Kitty uttered a shriek on making the discovery, and, bounding from the bed, grasped at every thing but the candle, as she groped excitedly about in search of it. "Orra, where are ye, ye desaiving imp?" she cried, apostro- phizing it. "Why-won't ye let me lay me hand on ye whin the child may be dead or dyin', an' me can't see to hilp her?" She came upon it in a minute, as soon as her excitement allowed her to think where she had laid it ;. and when the light struggled through the gloom, held it close to Addie's face. She had fainted --her eyes were partly open, and that and her white parted lips made her appear very ghastly. "In the name ov the saints," cried Kitty, seeing this, " where will I get a drop ov brandy?" -But although this inquiry was not answered, Kitty was not idle. She drew the poor little creature over to the front of the bed, and raising her in her arms, tried to force a few drops of water down her throat ; then she bathed her head and face with it, and fanned her with an old box-lid, and was still busy in her efforts, when light, quick footsteps were heard on the stairs outside. Kitty dropped her burden back on the pillow, and catching an old cloak from the wall where it hung, wrapped it round her before calling out- "' Miss Norah dear-Miss Debby, will you please step in an' see this poor child? Och, miss, it was the master; he come in on     36       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. her, as I was fearing, you know, an' me up stairs, niver thinking, till I come down all' found her facing hiln down wid the big iron spoon il her hand. It give her a great fright, an' I couldn't get it out on her mind, though I scolded her and tried to take her off it." Miss Norah and her sister, in their walking-dresses, looking pale- and tired, had appeared in the doorway as Kitty called to them. They became still paler when they saw the fainting child, and the younger sister cried out, in alarm, that she must be dead. Miss Norah was more self-possessed: she threw off her mantle and ran into her own room for restoratives, with which she soon returned, and set about applying them. Her sister and Kitty recognizing her ability, gave. way before her, and stood by watching her efforts anxiously. They were effective. Addic's eyes opened slowly, and fixed themselves on her face. "Let no one mention the cause of this," Miss Norah said to the others in an earnest whisper, and redoubled her assiduity. In a little while the child's consciousness was completely re- stored. She looked confused and astonished to find herself the object of so much attention, but did not appear to recall ivhat had occasioned it. "I am very well now," she said in reply to Miss Norah's kind inquiries, " and I can go asleep and not trouble you any more. Thank you, Kitty, I'll lie down again-I'm cold, that's all." As she said this in allusion to Kitty's propping her up, and offer- ing to go down and make some gruel, her unfailing reliance in ffiction of any nature, so the good soul desisted, and covered her up warmly. For a little time all three stood watching her with interest and kindness; but after a while her regular breatliing assured them that she slept, and they went quietly away. Kitty followed her mistresses softly intoltheir room, and closed the door. Instantly Addie's eyes opened wide, and she sat upright and looked about her in every direction. "It was only a dream," she said to her- self, persuasively ; "I know it was only a dream ; but, oh, I wish it was morning, with the sun shining just as bright and warm as ever it could."   MR. SIEBERT.           37 -CHAPTER IV. MR. SIEBERT. ONE of the great blessings of youth is the evanescent nature of its impressions. We can better afford to love what is agreeable than to retain what is painful, and in that happy season we easily forget both. Addie found a balm in the sunshine that soothed her perturbed spirits, and the dream was only a dream. The ter- ribly real sense of dread that had hung over her like a weighty gloom was gone, and she wondered as she recalled it. It was Friday, and the day Kitty always devoted to cleaning and dusting the upper chambers. With this end in view, she had arisen early, and had served the breakfast to the ladies and taken her own, when Addie appeared, creeping down stairs, rubbing her eyes, and looking confused at the late hour and her own absence from duty. "Never mind, at all at all," cried Kitty, good-humoredly. "Take your bit of breakfast and fall to and help me wid the dusting; for Miss Norah says I may get off before dark if I'm through work, and you and me will go up to Rooney's to tea. Sure it's Midsummer Eve, and I niver minded it till this minute." Addie's face brightened; she gave a laugh of delight, and skip- ped oyer the floor to where her bowl of tea stood on the corner of thel dresser. "Never mind the meat, Kitty," she said; "I don't care for any, save that bit in the pan for the big cat that comes and sets in the sun on the fence-top. I'm going to go out this evening," she sung to herself in a sort of triumphant recitative, between her mouthfuls of bread and butter. "I'm gcing to Rooney's to hear about the fairies-and won't that be splendid!" Kitty was not a little pleased at the effect of her announcement, but admonished her young aid not to lose tine in the outset, lest they might be late getting through the day's work. "What shall I start on?" cried Addie. "I'm ready to begin     38       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. this mninute. I'm so glad to go to Rooney's and hear all about the fairy circles and the ' little people,' as they call them." "Well, be aisy till the claning's done, ye wild crayture that ye are, and begin at the top of the stairs wid the short broom, and see ye don't let the corners slip, and don't scatter the dust more nor you canl help ayther." With this charge Kitty dismissed her tothe upper story, where with a battered dustpan, the stub of a  iom, and a dust-brush with more wood than bristles, she began to beat about energeti- cally and whisk the litter and dust into her own face and eyes. Before she had reached the lower landing Kitty joined her, and throwing open the doors and windows of the " furriners' rooms,' as she called the upper appartments, spread abr(ad a strong atmo- sphere of stale smoke.          l Kittv's ideas of domestic labor were not stematic, but com- bined great expenditure of breath and strength with a generli floundering and wrestling with heavy pieces of furniture, and t/ss- ing off loose bits of carpets. Addie, whose model she was in this particular, had merely enlarged on the plan she pursued, and between them a room was set to rights only after a series of con- vulsive commotions. The four beds contained in the three apart- ments were made to begin with, and afterwards received the chairs, small tables, boxes, etc., that encumbered the floors, thus being crushed out of all shape immediately. Then an entire displacement of all articles, great and small, took place, and the broom being brought into requisition, a whirling cloud of dust arose under its active agency, which continued to fly till, Kitty's strength giving way, she was forced to rest a moment, and Addie and the dust- pan disposed of the heavier particles that were thrown outside on the landing. When this much was accomplished, Kitty would look about complacently, and then shoving back things by main force, would leave Addlie and the stumpy brush to give the finishing touches to her work and set every thing in proper order, while she descended to exercise her abilities on the next floor.  To do this was a real busy pleasure to the busy little being, who, full of fancy, with but little outlet for its devices, seized this opportunity to adorn   AI[R. SIEBERT.           39 and arrange in various ways the charibers of the lodgers. Some- times she would- fall heir to their wrath and execration, by so en- tirely alteringr the situation of their furniture as to take them at a disadvantage when returning in. the dark, and trying to find their matches in a series of stumbles over unexpected impediments. But, generally speaking, they, being young men, laughed good-humoredly over her attempts at effect and variety, and set things back into place at their own convenience. On this particular Friday she chose to transform the large front chamber into the state apartment, and dragged thither for that purpose all movable articles in the other rooms: In particular, she formed a quartette of the gayly-painted light-stands that stood beside each bed piled with foreign maga- zines and papers, and carefully piling this current literature in a far corner of. a back closet, transported the tiny tables to augment the elegance of the front room. After gathering in easy-chairs, stools, and several fanciful cigar-stands to still further decorate the apartment, she bethought her of the nasturtium vines and holly- hocks, in full bloom in the little garden plat of the back yard, and flew thither to get a bouquet as a finishinwg stroke. "What are you doing now?" cried Kitty, from Mr. Siebert the artist's room. "I'm near done, and waiting to throw up the dirt in your pan. What are ye bothering with the flowers about?" " Oh never you mind," said Addie, not pausing to explain. "I'll be down in a moment and put all the things to rights; so you can leave it to me." With an apronful of flowers, she filled the four delf mugs belong- ing to the toothbrushes of the lodgers, and, setting one on eacl table, retired backwards to take in the effect of their appearance. It was a. highly satisfactory one to her, and giving a glance of approving satisfaction, all round, she closed the door and hurried down to complete the painter's room for Kitty, who had left it to her, first bespeaking her attention to the fact byt, calling up- "Now, ye young monkey, if ye're thinking of going' up with me  to Rooney's the night, be sharp with your capers up there, and fly down and clane up this dust.' The dust was no sooner gathered up, and the little threshold mat     40       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.       ' laid in place again, than a slow and cautious step was heardupon the stairs, and an old man, with a bent head, apparently lost in thought, came quietly up and turned at the landing coming towards ! the open door. He had a mild, absent-looking face, with large, gentle, brown eyes, and a small, child-like mouth, that was fresh and rosy enough for a girl. His hair was very gray, but he was neither shrivelled nor wrin-led, and had a pleasant, cleanly look about his plain dress that was il unison with his fresh complexion and sweet and cheery voice. Addie recognized him with some dis- pleasure and annoyance. "There now," she said, pettishly, " you're come back, so you are, just as I was beginning to get you dusted, and Kitty will blame me, and say I wasn't hurrying ; and I don't want her to do so, for fear she won't take me out to-night." The old gentleman glanced at the girl in mild surprise, then he laughed pleasantly. "Oh, you are afraid I'll be in your way," he said, "but I promise you I won't. I would go out again, but I had forgotten a bit of sky I promised for to-day, and so I came back to get the colors ready, or I shall not have it in time." "Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Addie, merrily, "I like to hear you talk, Mr. Siebert; it seems so funny to say you promised a bit of sky, as if any one could give a piece of heaven to any one else. But I yours don't seem the least like the real thing, so I suppose it don't matter what or how you call it. Why don't you give it the deep- water look it has when you try to pierce it with your ,eye, so soft and clear and endlessly deep, while yours is a thick coat of blue, that would crack or seale away, but never melt under your look as the real sky does. Can't thev do it at all? ,.  ' The painter stroked his chin while he followed the child's glance out of the open window. '         , "No," he said, softly and thoughtfully, "I have never seen it.  God made the sky, my cricket, and man mixes paints." "That isn't it," said Addie, decidedly, " and I'll tell you-why. God made women and children, but you paint prettier ones, F think. They don't look like the real, but they're far, far prettier." "Some day," said the artist, laughing, "I shall paint you, and then you'll do me justice, and not be so hard a critic." i,   MR. SIEBERT.           41      I " Could I be painted ?" cried Addie ; 1" would I make a picture ? Oh, it would be such a funny one. I never saw such thin, brown hands in a painting, and- I _Vouldn't have them, either. I should make you do a beautiful, white, slender pair, with plenty of rich lace round the wrists." "They wouldn't be true hiands, then, cricket," said the painter, who had thrown off his coat in favor of a short jacket, in which he was now busy compounding colors, "and you know that is why you object to my skies." "No, that is not it," said Addie, in strongr dissent ; " it wasn't because the sky-you paint isn't like the real, because if you had made it prettier than the rea one I shouldn't have minded it a bit. What I think is, that if'you touch. an thing you ought to improve it; so I don't mean to be painted to lookl as I am, you know, but prettier-just as I would be if I could." The old man, having chosen his position, and arranged his pic- ture and brushes,. took his place before it, and then began to look steadily at the child, who, unconscious of his regard, had dismissed the subject apparently with her last words, and now was fully occu- pied imparting a vigorous polish to the front of a chest of drawers. He raised his brush in his hand, but still did not remove his eyes from her, but held it suspended in his fingers while he continued his gaze. Suddenly she looked up, and her face was full of deep and troubled thought. "What are dreams?" she asked in an earnest tone. "Why do people see and feel and think things that are as real to them while they last as any thing they ever knew, but turn to nothing when they wake and look about them in the world of daytime." "It is a mystery, cricket," he answered, after a pause, and in a tone that echoed something of the depth of hers. " Why do you have mysteries, you people that are wise and think and see ?" she exclaimed impatiently. " You should explain these things, because you are their masters; if you don't, they trouble you. I've had a dream; I wouldn't tell Kitty, because- because-"      Here Addie paused, as if searching in her aind for      42       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. a reason to explain her want of confidence to her companion and friend, and then burst out into a merry laugh. "Oh, Kitty isn't the one you knowr-she doesn't dream herself, and she don't look like it, so I should never speak of it at all if I didn't know you, Mr. Sichert, alnd if you weren't kind, and not fussy or queer, like other glentlemen.' Mr. Sichert listened without ciaiming or disclaiming this indefi- nite character, and after a moment's thought returned-- ' What made you dream? were you frightened before you slept, or were you sick in any way?" "I was frightened a little bit, and I was sort of bothered a good deal," said Addie, slowly. "But now I think of it, I won't tell you my dream, because it might not be right. It might make Kitty anlgry, and I like Kitty, you know." Mr. Sielert turned round on his stool, and applied himself to his work at this, and Addlie brushed ahd dusted hastily for a few minutes without speaking. Presently she came close to him, and peeped over his shoulder. Hle was not painting, but cmrely going round the picture with idle touches, apparently too deeply occupied in tlhqught to give a glance to the work in hand. "itould it frighten you to find yourself in a dark room, with your hands covered with blood, and a man with a pistol Standing close beside you?"7 Addlie asked this softly, btlt close to the painter's ear. .He turned and looked at her as if she had only answered his thought. "So that was your dream-was it, cricket?" he said. "That was in my dream," she answered; " and it was fearful, because it seemed so true. I couldn't shake it off--it crept up round me again, and I would see it all over and over, till I got cold and sick, and I thought I was dying. It had all gone this morning, but ,tow it seems to come back again. What does it mean?  Is there any thing so terrible that has no sense or reality to it?" "Addie, you little witch you," cried Miss Debby's voice from the staircase, " come down and attend to the door, instead of both- ering 1Mr. Siebert."   MR. SIEBERT.           43 "'Am I bothering you?" asked the girl, earnestly, before an- swering. He shoolk his head, and her face brightened. "I'm coming, miss,' slhe called back, " the minute I'm done put- ting away the 'Chairs and dustilg. " To fulfil this promise, she worked energetically to make up for her delay, and smoothed and brushed every thing into place with haste, talking, meantime, as quickly as she moved about. of - "If I did worry you, I wouldn't come up again while you are , in, because it would be rude-I know that much ; 'but you seeIr have only you and' Kitty to talk to. The young ladies are kind, and Miss Todd makes me laugh; but then that's not what I think about, you see. If it wasn't for you, I wouldn't have any one to tell that -to, because Kitty doesn't worry herself thinking, she says; f  and it isn't likely she'd be worried with anybody else's thinks, is it?'" The artist said nothing, but all the while the girl spoke he kept a kind of attentive smile turned towards her, and, with a imotion of his head, seemed to entirely satisfy her as to his readiness to be her confidant, for she went on- "Then since you're so kind-and it is kind, you know, because I'm a great gabbler, and I'think so much, I can't remember half of it-I'll come up when I canl; and now I must run, for I've finished. And don't make that sky so very blue--that's one rea- son why it isn't so good as the real. Try and put that pale sort of lilght that comes in over the flowers there among'st it. It isn't your fault that you can't, for they don't mnake such colors--do they?" With all this,' which the listener answered in his silent way as she went on, Addie hurried away, and found Miss Todd indignant- ly impatient at her stay. "Here, wash your hands quick, and hold this silk for me, monl-. key," she cried. "I could box your ears with a good will, you chattering little thing,. keeping  me sitting here idle until you, thought proper to get throu2gh your conference with that old goose of a dabter up stairs." #     m     "      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. Addie dropped her brushes and brooms at the kitchen landing, and flew in baste to cleanse her hands ; but at this mention of her friend the artist she turned indignant. "IHe's a kind gentleman, Miss Todd," she cried, angrily, " and he speaks beautifully and politely, too. I tell him about his pic- tures-he likes to listen to me ; and then he tells me any thing I want to know.'" "Oh, fudge! there's a pair of you," cried Miss Todd, running her scissors along the silk, and cutting it in strips. "What a beauty you've made Miss Jennings, Mary! Just look, Miss Debby-%hen you place the feathers it will be perfect." This in allusion to a blue shirred hat just completed by a companion. But Addie, though she held the silk deftly, and changed it to the proper mark for the next cut every time, 'Was yet both angry and excited; her face wras scarlet, and her eyes gleamelu  with wrath against the now unconscious Aliss Todd, who, having got her work in order, had entirely dismissed its delay from her mind,t till she glanced up, and catching the fire and flush of the girl's face, laughed outright. "Come, come, puss, that's too much--etting angry at nothing, are you? Well, then, we'll see how you'll get along, if you can't take a joke." "Was it a joke?"' she asked, eagerly. "And didn't you really mean to speak roucghly of Mr. Siebert? Oh, I'm so glad ; for he is a good gentleman, and I couldn't bear it. But I like you now, Miss. Todd, since you say it-was fun only.'" Well, then, bring me thatTframe there, and the 'pincushion too. It's Mrs. Toland, you must know, and I'm going to cover her witht folds of lemon-colored silk, and put a bunch of violets on her crown ; and how do you think she'll look then, Addie?". Seeing good-humor restored, Addie laughed, and ran down to Kitty, who was, accoding to her own account, I readying a mouthful to put the hutrger off her mistress" till an early tea-time. At this particular time the grand apartments of the Misses Le Roy's establishment were unoccupied--the state parlor and bed- room, that was so well adapted for a gentleman of means; and 4P   IR. SIEBERT.   -         45 after -a half-hour's labor bhlow stairs, Addie was dispatched to dust and polishlthe furniture there, lest any one should call to in- quire about them.  : "And keep your ears open for the bell, End not have me break- ing me neck -up stairs to answer the door' forbye having to put on and take off a clane apron iverv time, for dacency's sake," said Kitty, admonishinrgly. It was the nature of this child to rejoice exceedingly in the sight of any thing elegant or grand ; and to be allowed to brush these apartments, which were to her the finest in the world, was indeed a pleasure. The painter's door was closed, and he, no doubt, deeply ab- sorbed in painting his bit of sky as she went up. She threw open the doors and windows of the front rooms, and, obedient to Kitty's charge, began to lose no time in dusting -the furniture. They were very handsomely appointed in every respect, from the dark Brussels carpet and rich curtains to the graceful vases on the mantel and fine engravings on the walls. The furniture was solid and haudsome, besides being well kept, and there was no reason why a gentleman of means should not find himself well suited in /  such apartments. But at present they were vacant, and had been so for nearly a fortnight, a fact that seemed to weigh heavily on Miss Norah's mind, as Addie had observed. "And I wonder why," she said to herself, "for they do have a sight of money coming in from the customers, and we don't spend it down-stairs, nor they don't seem to lay it out for clothes. It must be put away somr where in an iron box to make a fortune for some one." Coming to this conclusion, Addie applied herself all the more earnestly to her work, and had just completed the dusting of' the last article when the bell rang, and she hurried down to answer it. "It's Miss, Farron for the flowers," cried Miss Norah at the workroom door, "have you got them arranged, or what am I to say? Tell me before Addie opens the door." "Oh, yes, I had forgotten," answered Miss Debby; " they are for that white tulle opera-bonnet, and she was to say if she ap-     1tu      TEN YEARS OF A LIFET[IME. proved of their arrangement this morning. Well, they're not done, these new mourning things have hurried me so." "It will do her good to wait," murmured Miss Todd, in an undertone. "She's so determined to have every thing her own  way, it will do her no harm to be crossed once in a while." "Go quickly, Addie,' said Miss Norab, in a despairing tone. "I don't know what I'll say, I'm sure, and she's so peremptory, too." Addie obeyed, and saw a carriage drawn close to the curb, from the open window of which leant the head and shoulders of an ex- quisitely handsome girl. "Ask her if my things are ready,'t she said to the coachman, who stood before Addie waitingl for some signal of his mistress's 9 pleasure.  "I'll go and see," said Addie; promptly.           i "No, no," cried the lady in tthe carriage, "tell her to wait. I'll : go in and see Miss Le Roy myself; it's such a bore dealing with i stupid people."       ' Addie stood perfectly still till the coachman ran down  the ! steps and opened the carriage door, out of which the handsome girl stepped proudly-an elegait, queenly young creature, in face and figure, as ever Addie hail looked upon. When she came sweeping up the step in floating grandeur, the little servant, still closely observing her, remakrkc-                 }' "But I'm not stupid, you know, and it's wrong  to say such things of people without knowing them."             I The young beauty stood aghast at the calm disclaimer entered  : by so insignificant a creature, and then, with no further expression than a  half-indignant, half surprised glance, passed into the parlors, 5 wlere Miss iNorah, all smiles and propitiatory excuses, begged her to wa it while the bouquet, neglected only through absolute neces- , sity, should be ready for her critical survey. Meantime AMiss Debby, with half a   dozen boxes of flowers  round her, was groping about, catching-up here a sprig and there i a  spray, and turning them together in feverlsh haste, accompanying i herself in an undertone with a running commen t on the miseries of her position. i   MR. SIEBERTE.  I'm fairly bothered to death with one and another, she fretted. "Here's this young miss, harder to please than an empress, thatis sure to find fault with every thing you do, and the hats of the Barretts to be sent for in an hour, and Miss Jennings waiting for her inside roses, and-there, Addie, take it ian just so; something is wanting, I can see; those yellow buds give too strong a shade, but I don't see what I can do ; it will be just as well for her to object to that as any thing, else.:' "Please, Miss Debby," said Addie, with her brow gathered together in deep thought, "please let me try to add something. That purple violet fand leaves will go in there, and that scarlet geranium blossom just here. Oh, that's beautiful." "So it is, as sure as I'm here," cried Miss Debby, in surprise. "You're a wonder, Addie, I declare. It's beautiful--isn't it; Miss Todd?" Addie caught up the paper in which the flowers lay, and carried' it to Miss Norah. Miss Farron had thrown herself in haughty resignation on the ottoman nearest the window, and, with arn eyeglass raised in her exquisitely gloved hand, scanned the latest'specimen of pattern taste, a pale, primrose-colored bonnet, just completed, and arranged on a stand on the centre-table. "Ah, here they are, Miss Farron," said M{iss Norah, evidently relieved by the appearance of the flowers. "They're sweetly pretty, I'm sure you must say. I don't think we ever made a lovelier combination." ,Miss Farron dropped her glass, which in her hands was merely a screen for impudent coolness, and looked steadily with her own beautiful eyes at the exquisite bouquet.  Every feature in her face softened into satisfaction. Ift is beautiful," she confessed, "and just what I had in my mind, though  I feared Miss Le Roy didn't take my idea. It is really beautiful."  Addie's face glowed with pleasure, she dropped the paper on the table, and hurried ii" to tell Miss Debby the success of the arrange- ment.      I     48       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "She hadn't a single word, to say against them, and she would have found one if she could, I'm sure, because it's her way." "Now, Addie," said Miss Debby, in high good-humor, "you are worth your weioght in gold sometimes, and if you hurry and put away all those boxes nicely, and gather up all these bits of silk, I'll squeeze time enough out of .next week to make you a bonnet, and you shall trim it yourself." This proposition acted on Addie like sudden exhilaration; she laughed outright and performed a perpendicular dance, accom panied by hand clapping and a triumphant chorus. "I'm going to have a new bonnet and trim it myself, like a regular milliner. Oh, you're the best Miss Debby that ever was born t" "You've not got it yet," observed Miss Todd, "and I promise you, you won't, if you don't stop Careering around and knockingo down the frames." Lest she should in some wise be obliged to forego such a delight- ful anticipation, Addie wisely retired after putting away the things as tidden. The dusting, of the lower hall being her last task before Kitty would need her below, she pent up her enthusiastic delight until after its accomplishment, and applying herself to brushing the inside panels of the door, paused in her occupation and stood back to allow Miss Farron to pass out. She had finished her con- ference with Miss Norah, and smiled graciously as she said good- morning. The smile lingered on her lip as she reached the door, and Addie, charmed with its softening effect on her beauty, regarded her with a look of deep interest. "  So you're not stupid," she said, pausing with rare good-humor to glance at the attentive face. "Well, you do look like an odd, bright sort of girl; how old are you?" "Fourteen," responded Addie, briefly, still intent on her survey. "You don't look so old; but pray don't stare so." "I wasn't staring.; I was thinking," replied the girl.- "Mr. Siebert, the artist, paints slies, and trees, and curtains, and things around the portraits of people and fancy pictures, up-stairs. Ile   MDSUMMER NIGHT   AT THE ROONEYS.      49 can't paint the things that don't live as beautiful as they are, and yet I think he makes the people handsomer. But you are as hand- some as any thing I ever saw him do, and a great deal prettier than some. If I were a painter, I would make all my faces like yours." "What a queer, silly child 1" exclaimed the young lady, in a sort of half-pleased surprise. "When you grow older, you will learn that women's compliments have no taste in them, and I don't care about them from any one." So saying, and with her old chafing haughtiness returned in double force, the handsome girl swept down the door-steps, and entering sank back in her carriage, and was driven away. CHAPTER V. MDSUMMER NIGHT AT THE ROONEYS. THE Doyles and the Rooneys constituted in themselves the sum total of Kitty Donahue's acquaintance outsidkX'he establishment where her interests and employment centred. They were two fami- lies from the place of her birth, or, as she expressed it, " from the very door wid her ;*" and such spare evenings as she could be in- duced to take from the cares asnd duties of the house by her kindly mistresses, were spent in the societyi'of these two households. Once or twice before, Addie had accompanied her in these visits, and no higher treat had ever entered into the calculation of her young life ; as the time approached for starting she was nervously alive to a waning interest on Kitty's 'part, and besought her earnestly to let her do up the tea-things, lest weariness should -be an obstacle in the way of enjoyment.- "Och, it's not that at all, Addie," Kitty averred; "I'm no ways tired, and you've worked well, so you have, but I'm worried a bit about laving the ladies by themselves: mqbe they might be t ,     3     50       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. wanting a dhrop of hot water, and no one here to make up the fire or the like for them.' "Oh, Kitty," cried Addie, in a tone of distress, " what's the sense in trying to imagine reasons, when thlerwcs none in the world. Miss Norah's going to bed early, and AMiss Dobby's going to write letters, she said; so if you want to be mean and back out of a promise, you can-but you h!ave no excuse at all." "And thim two kittens," said Kitty, irresolutely, " yon know they don't agree, and. what will we do to find a home for one ot them 7" "I'll carry one under my shawl to-night, and maybe Sally Rooney would take it," cried Addie, exultingly; " so there's nothing to keep you." But Kitty was evidently disinclined to leave ; and had it not been for the constant persuasion and entreaty of Addic, would have yielded to her unexpressed reluctance and given up the eutor- ment. Before starting she gave a last evidence of her anxiety by thor- oughly searching the back yard, and bolt;ing the gate and kitchen door. At last, resigning herself to necessity, she bade Addlie wrap her shawl round her shoulders, and put her hood on her head; "for if we mane to be going at all, it's igh time we were started." The Widow Rooney and her two sons and one dau ghter occupied a small house in a small court running off a cross street in the lower part of the city. It was one of the oldest, if not the most eligible of localities, and the house in question was one of a row 'of uniform two-storied tenements, built of alternate red and black bricks, and finished with white facings. The apartments were not extensive, consistincg of a cellar kitchen, approached from the street. by means of a  wooden door let into the pavement, and connecting with the one room on the ground-floor, by a narrow flighllt of stairs. This one room was the family assertion of gentility, for it boasted the position of best room or parlor, and was covered by a clean, fresh-rag car- pet, and furnished with a broad-leaved mahogany table, a bureau, with large glass knobs at each drawer and a white fringed cover   MDS'UMMER NIGHT AT THE ROONEYS.        51 on the top, a settee, and chairs to match, in gayly painted wood; besides a long looking-glass in a narrow cherry-wood frame, with a bright green landscape at the top, representing a red house ap- proached by, a yellow walk, and surrounded by six poplar trees, three on each side. The room was of a good size, the upper floor being divided into two bedrooms for the accommodation of the family, and this being entirely given up to the reception of friends and social gatherings. Kitty and Addie found themselves expected and greeted with great warmth and cordiality. "Sure I thought you'd be down the night," said old Mrs. Rooney, with a strong brogue accompanying every word. "I tould Phil to stop in an' give ye the hint, in case ye'd forgottin what night it was; but he was kilt wid work the week, and niver got the lingth."t "How's Phil and Jimmy both?" asked Kitty. "They're bravely," replied their mother; " sure they're only just through wid their day's work, and are out taking the muck off them, wid a cup of hot wather an' a bar of soap. Sally, take out a towel till them ; they're through by this time, surely." Sally, a good-looking woman, with a bright good-humor in every movement of her face and figure, answered, "Yes, mother, I will whin I see what to do with a quare little kitten Addie's after bringing us.  You're the wonderful pair, you and Kitty, hunting up stray bastes and finding homes for them. No wonder yer an ould maid, Kitty, whin ye give yer mind to such craytures.7" "Troth, thin," replied Kitty, speaking with great decision and feeling, -" it's a mighty safe and plisant employmint, besides living the life some do that has tuck up wid the first man that axed thim.  Sure, if ye grow tired of a cat, ye can turn yer back on it, and take no more thought about it, one way or another ; but a bad man will hunt ye to yer grave ; and ivery day I live I'm thank- fuller nor the last, that I'm free from sich a tormint.'" "Och, bother take ye, Kitty, wid your black praching.  All min are not bad; there's good of all kinds, ye know ; and ye uaden't be taking the heart out of thim that has a dacint swate- heart, becase yer not in luck yerself.',     52       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "Sorra a good one I iver saw," said Kitty, doggedly; "they may be as innocent as sweet milk before ye take thim ; but troth, ye'll find thim bitter cruds before ye're through wid thim." At this juncture two stalwart, red-faced, good-tempered young Irishmen came in from the back yard, where they had evidently made their toilet, to judge from their hair, yet damp withi soap- suds; and the evidence clean shirts, the immense collars of which they were just fastening. Both greeted Kitty with familiar kinid- ness, and Phil, the younger, approached Addie, feigning great in- terest in the kitten question. / "The Doyles is in great want of a mouser," said he; " could you get them iver a one that ye coam warrant in point of character? That last onLe ye broluglt Sally s/lole all she could clap claw to, and my mother paid a boy'to drownlher, or we'd have been starved out entirely."7        * "Oh, stop your nonsense, Phil, and see the odd little crayture they have brought wid them,"' said Sally. "TWe must take it down in the kitchen, Addie, and get it settled at a saucer of milk, for Billy Doyle's going to bring over his fiddle, so that we can have a jig in honor of the night it is ; and the music would set the little thin(g off intirely wid fright."' "O1h, cried Addie, "I'm so glad you're going to dance--it will be such fun. I always wanted to see dancing, but I never saw any except the little figures on the top of the organs that go round the streets." "Ae mother's going to give us a reel, whispered Sally, as they descended the narrow stairs together. "We made her lromise, if ould Christy Doyle, young Pat's grandfather, would come over the night, she would dance wid him, and he's coming." Addie chuckled in anticipation, and gave herself up to blan- dishing the kitten into content with its new quarters. Crouching on her hands and knees beside the hearth, she talked cajolingly to it, whilst Sally filled the kettle and set it over the charcoal fur- nace, with a view to a " dhrop of punch by and by.", Meantime the sound of footsteps shuffling overhead announced the arrival of the expected Doyles, and. Sally, seeing the new-comer at peace   MDSUMMER NIG1tT AT THE ROON          '53 with its quarters, quietly lapping the offered milk, commended Addie's sklill in producing such a happy state of things, and en- joined on her to hurry away up-stairs, or "we'll lose the fun, for Billy's scraping his fiddle already." They found the sitting-room filled with company, and the boys had brought down extra chairs from above, to accommodate the guests. Besides old Christy Doyle and his son and daughter-in- law, there were young Pat and his sister Ann, and two neighbor women, with a " lad lately come over from the ould country." Old Christy Doyle was the guest of honor, and a hickory arm- chair, with a chintz cushion, was brought down-stairs for his occu- pation. He was a white-headed, rosy-faced old man, grown little from age, but full of life and humor, with a merry twinkle in his still bright eye, that defied the years that had bleached his blair and shrivelled his figure. Perhaps there never was such a singular combination of styles as his wardrobe exhibited. From the bell- crowned that he had carefully carried between his hands in enter- ing, to the round-toed boots, whose weight bore down his spindled shanks, every article belonged to a separate date and fashion. In some garments he was cut off with scanty measurement, but in others the amplitude was unspeakable. His waistcoat, a gray- brown, that had once been crimson, stoutly refused to meet his waisthand, and the legs of his pantaloons meanly confessed the fleshlessness of his own but his coat, a light-blue garment, with long tapering tails, was boundlessly prodigal in collar, which was made of the rolling pattern, and formed a sort of snuffy velvet embankment, thrown up for the protection of the back of his old white noddle. He wore no cravat, but a coarse linen collar, rising- like an inner wall to the frowning outworks of discolored velvet, and disclosing a little withered, whimsical, but fresh-colored face, smiling quaintly on all beholders. "For I'm wan ov the ould sort, ye see," he would say, " and I fale is if I'd been so long acquaint wid the world that 1'm on aisy tarms wid ivery wan in it. Who's yon wee cuttie?" he asked, his quick eye resting on and distinguishing,Addie from the rest of them ; " sure she's none ov yours, Molly Rooney, is she?'" \     54       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "Indade yer right there, Christy; there niver was a dark com- plictcd Roouey of our stockl," said the female proprietor of that name. "She's a slip of a girl -that come over wid Kitty Dona- hue to have a night's talk. Slhe's a born American, as yc can see.' ' Och, yis, I thought so," assented the old man ; " it's the only face I dihn't. know, and so I asked ye. An' hlere's Midsummer Eve come azgain. God be praised that we've all lived to see it. I can mind as far back as this night sixty-five years ago, and I was a good lump of a boy thin, too." "Well, Christy dear, ye were always remarkable for yer mem- ory, but I'm ten or twelve years younger nor you, and I can go back purty well meself." It seemed a challenge of recollections, and both parties drew up their chairs facing each other, and Mrs. Rooney smoothed out her apron and settled her cap, whilst the old man cleared his throat, and took an easier position behind his coat collar. All the company fell into attitudes of attention, the men slouching forward, withl their hands hanging over their knees, the women sitting up- right, with ',heir thumbs crossed over their checked aprons. "Do you mind the big hailstones that broke the windies of Innislone Chapel?" asked Christy, to begin with; " that happened whin ye were about eight year old." "An' why wouldn't I?" asked Mrs. Rooney, tossing her head at the ease with which she- brought back the event in question. "Why, me father's laboring man came after me and me brother Mickey to Patrick Farrell's hedge-school, where we were larning our letters, and tuck us home under a green camllet cloak when the worst of it was over." "Well, I was going to say that I remimber two bigger wans nor that," said old Christy, coolly; "wan ov thim happened the day yer Uncle Jack was married.  Faith ye don't mind that, for it was three years afore ye were born." Here Christy's party chuckled triumphantly, and the Rooneys gave in. "Sure, mother," remarked Phil, encouragingly, "ye niver meant   MIDSUMAMER NIGHT AT THE ROONEYS.       55 to set yersilf up for knowing, what happened afore yer time; if ye did, ye could make yer fortune telling the cards." i; "True for ye, Phil,' she assenteel ' but I minid whin I was tlhree year ould, that Christy's uncle come over on his white lnare to our place to look for him, and sez le ' Ov all the lazy, worth- less cratures, Christys the worst; he flies from work, and lthe m1inllte there's a turn to do le"S lissillgo Faith I hsminil thhi words as if it' was yesterday I heard thim." "Do ye, thin, Peggy Roonley? well, woman dear, I don't doubt it," said the old fellow, laughing good-humoredly; " an' the raison ye mind it so well is in retard ov the fellow-faling ye had, being wan that know'd how to take yer own aise, an' ivirly an enemy to labor2' "My mother was lady1s maid at Castle Downie," asserted M rs. Rooney proudly, "' an if I tuck after her in being jintale an' da- cint, it's the more to me credit. Sure the first principle wid the quality is takingi their aise.*' Castle Downie," repeated young Pat, thoughtfully, " isn't that where you were living -yerself, granfather, whin ye saw the white wife.' "Faix was it," said his grandfather; and he added, with a ban,- tering nod, " it's more nor you ca sa y, Peggy; an9 there's where I bate ye.' "Thrue for ye," confessed Mtrs. Iooney, "I niver jist saw wall of thim, but I heard a banshee keening round Downie Moor the night afore the old mistress died^  Here Addie, with her eyes opened wide in wonderg interest, touched Sally RooneyTs arm.  "What kind of a thing is it?" she whispered. 4"I can only tell ye from hearsay, for there niver was one seen in myn time,' returned Sally. "It's a kind of warning spirit or ghost, I belave."1 "Ask the old gentleman to tell all about the one lie saw," urged tle other, breathlless with interest. "Ye niver saw a white wife, now, I'll warrant any ov yez,'^ con- tinued Clhristy, triumphing iu his superior opportunity of cultivat-     56      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.", ing superhuman acquaintances, "so I'll tell yez about this wan. Lord Bathurst, of Downie, had two sons in my time-Lord George, the eldest, and Master Falix, a slip of a lad, wid-a sweet, tinder face, and a blue eye as soft and beaming as an angel's. I wint up to the castle to be a kind of hilper to wan of the garden- ers, but Lord George tuck a fancy to me, an' showed me great favor, for he brought me up into the upper servants' hall, an' gev- me the place that suited me best, for the most I had to do was to carry his gun for him, and go to town wid messages, or kape him in discoorse whin he felt like talkin' wid me. He had a quick, sharp way wid him, that sort ov flustered a body at first, an' he would fly at ye for the laste neglect, as if yer life would be the smallest satisfaction he would take for it; but mostly he was gay and good-humored enough, an' as frank an' free as the sun in the hivins above. Master Falix, though he was but a year or two younger, was fair complicted and had the face of a saint, which gev him a youthful look, an' iverybody jist doated on him. I liked Lord George mesilf, but yet I often thought what a good thing it would have been for the poor if Master Falix had been the wan that was to rule at Castle Downie. Master' Falix had been living abroad for five years, and had only been back a month or two whin I tuck up me place as sarvint to his brother. All the people at the castle, high or low, had a smile from him whiniver he appeared; an' he didn't overlook me, nayther. But, 'Christy,' he would say, whiniver I passed him walking in the garden or riding on the road, 'how are you to-day, and how is the good man, yer uncle? I hope ye find it plisent living wid me brother George,' or some such civility. He was sweet spoken and always smiling, while his brother was quick in the timper, as I was telling ye, and ready to fly off at any thing that wint wrong. Wan day, as I was comin' up from Innislone wid a letter for the master, I mit wid a small lad, slight an' wake-looking in figure, an' wid a big forrin pair ov eyes glaming in his head like living coals, they were so bright. He looked faint and could scarcely kape his feet whin I come ridin' up wid him, an' he turned an' spoke in sich a swate deep voice, that I lost the sinse ov what he said in   MDSUMMER NIGHT AT THE ROONEYS.        57 listening to the lovely sound ov it. Whin he saw that I was just staring t him,. widout taking any manin' of his words, he repeated the question he had put to me. ' How far is 'it to the place where Mr. Falix, of Downie Castle, lives?' lThin I found out that more nor his eyes was forrin, for sure his tongue made quare work ov the words, an' it was only the intint way I listened that gev me a hint of what he was after. Faling sorry for his wakeness, let him be pagan or Christian, I gev him me hand and set him up on the baste, I was riding for a kind ov a lift, seeing he was clear broke down wid walking. Thin I tried to draw him into discoorse about the business he wanted wid the young master; but though he seemed thankful for the kindness I showed him, e e had niver a word to say till we come in sight of the lodge gate, whin he slipped down, and saying something I couldn't make head or tail ov, hurried off. Niver a man ov us know'd how it came about, but after that we found Master Falix had added a forrin attendant to his part ov the castle, an' though nobody iver saw the crayture do a hand's turn ov work, nor could tell, any use that he was, we all know'd that he kept by Master Falix, and none ov us had a word to say about it. "Things began to go wrong after awhile, an' Lord George an' he was always in a sharp, hard timper about wan thing an' another, till it was like serving yer time in purgatory to live wid him. I was mighty tired wid him ivery way, an' me heart was jist broken striving to understand what would plaze him, whin I heard from a boy who was sarvint up at Shamrock Lodge wid the Magee fam- ily, that a terrible quarrel had come betwane him and Miss Lily Magee, the lady that he had been half wild about till she con- siuted to marry him, an' that for some burst of timper or unpleas- intness of spache she was turning her back on him, an' be all ac- counts taking up wid his brother Falix. I wouldn't belave, for awhile, that Master Falix would bemane himself by being a rival till his disappointed brother; but as sure as yer there, I saw him evening after evening riding through a by-lane that led to Sham- ti  rock Lodge, when my poor master was tramping like a trooper up I            , 3*     58       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. and down his lonely chamber, and ready to fly at ye an' take the eyes out of yer head if ye said a word to him." "Sure, I mind Lord George mesilf, whin he was a white- haired old gintleman ; an' I thought him ivirly good-timpered an' agreeable," said Mrs. Rooney. "Christy, yer not doing him justice to spake of him as, ye do; sure he was not a bear or a wild baste il his manners, as ye would disparage him by saying.7 Whin ye saw him, Peggy, the storms ov his life were over, an' he was, as ye know, as fine-looking an' noble-hearted a gintle- man as ever ye laid eyes on ; but sure it's the white hair that he wore at forty that's a proof ov what I'm sayingS Lily Magee, the young lady of Shamrock, broke his heart and his spirit togeth- er; an' whin he rose up out ov the fever that tuck him suddintly- whin Miss Lily and her aunt wint to England, an' it was spoken publicly that she would come back the wife ov Master Falix-he niver had a loud word or a quick look for any wan. More's the pity-it's a sad thing, intirely, to see such a change in a fine gintle- man." "Well, the furrin lad that I tould ye ov wasn't seen much these times, and whin Lord George was tuck down, the butler tould me to ax the doctor to sind his assistant to see to a Spanish boy that was lying sick up beyant in the young master's room. I niver had spoken the second word to the crayture, but whin I heard he was suffering my heart filt for him, lying sick away fromn his own place and people; so whin I could slip away from me own duties, I would go and ax after him. But it's little satisfaction I. got ; for an old fox of a fellow, that had been a sort of companion and upper servant to Master Falix whin he wint abroad, kept watch up there, an' wouldn't give a body a word, barring yis or no, whin they spoke to him. Now I'm coming to the white wife, ye see; and what I've been telling ye was only to explain the way I was knowing to her appearing at Downie Castle; an' faix, whin I saw her wid me own two eyes, I have good raison to remimber it well. It was late at night, and me and Lanty Maloney were sitting in the lower hall, waiting for a Dublin doctor's coming, that had been   MDSUMMER NIGHT AT THE -ROONEYS.       59 sint for to consult about Lord George, an' was expicted to arrive ivery minute. It was raining outside, and the wind was gusty an' wild, an' we two boys were in no great spitits, on accounts ov the thils going as they did at the Castle. The old lord was in London yet, though he had been sint for; an' [Master Falixs was away for more nor a fortnight back-some said getting ready for his wedding ; though niver a wan of us had the heart to spake of him, seeing. how mane he had done by his brother; an' in regard ov the high opilion we used to have ov him, we were intirely heart-broken about him, Says Lanty, says he, ' What's that?' anl' lie started up so suddint, that I lost me hould ov the snuffers I hild, an' put out wan ov the candles I was snuffing. ' What do ye mane?' says I; 'it's nothing but the wind soughing around the window-frames, an' the rain bating agin the panes.' But, for all I said so, me heart was in me mouth, for I heard the moaning ov a woman's voice as plain as I hear me own; an' I know'd well enough what it was. Lanty wasn't desaved by me words, for he kep listening, wid his face as pale as death, an' his eyes growing bigger an' bigger. The wind rose higher an' higher, an' the voice rose wid it into a wail, that made ivery drop ov blood in me body turn could. Lanty an' me got closer an' closer together, but nay- ther ov us could, spake another word for fear, whin, wid a wild screech and whirl, the wind dashed itself agin the casement, and the curtains waved back'ards and for'ards, till the candle wint out at a whiff. Then we saw, wid her face agin the panes, a lady all in white, wid a face that was whiter and colder nor any thing I ivcr saw before; an' she was wringing her hands an' bating her breast wid sorrow and distress. So I know'd that Lord George's time had come, and there was no nade for the Dublin doctor, that was radihg through wind and rain in vain. The same thought came to Lanty, an' I heard him say, in sich a frightened voice that I niver would have know'd to be his, (May the blissed saints resave his spirit this night 1' We were both could an' trimblining i the dark, whin the knock al the great door roused us, an' we flew to the hall; for the storm was so wild we niver heard the wheels at all at all, though it was the doctor come at last     60       TEN' YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "Whin we saw him go up the great staircase, an' heard from the post-boy the haste he had made, Lanty an' me thought to ourselves that he mig'ht have stayed where he was, for any hope he could bring. Yet whin the morning came, and we got up, thanklful to see the blissed light, the word was, that Lord George was out ov danger, an' that all he naded now was care an' qlliet." "So ye see it wasn't a white wife after all, Christy dear," said Mrs. Rooney, persuasively. "'IMany's the wan that has thought they hlave seen things an' been desaived, ye know." An' why wasn't it so, an' may I ax ye, Peggy?" demanded Christy, with dignity. "Bekase they niver come but to foretell death; an' by your accounts an' me own knowledge, Lord George lived to be an old gray-haired gintleman." "Whisht I now, be aisy till ye hear all I have to. tell ye, an' ye'll know more about it. It was a glad day f9r Downie Castle whin they all heard that the doctor said its young master would recover, an' mesilf was so light-hearted that I filt it was draining I was whin I saw the white figure, the night before; aun' if it had been that Lanty was to the fore, to keep me in mind ov the truth ov it, I should have thought my senses desaived me. I, was in a great way, preparing for the ould lord's arrival-for he was expected all that day his rooms were to be put in order, an' sich like. Mrs. Maloney, the housekeeper-she was Lanty's mother, ye mind-sint me up an' down doing arrants for her ; anll', as I was on the west staircase, just before noon, I met a forrin praste looking very solemn an' coming slowly down forninst me. The sight ov him in that part ov the house surprised me so much, that I couldn't make out the maning ov it at all at all, till I remembered the young furriner ; and so I hurried through with what I was about, and stole softly to the door to ax after him. The word I got wint to me heart like a knife; for though I had niver more nor spoke to the lad, his eyes were ov that kind that drew the heart out ov a bbdy towards him. tie was dead since daybreak, an' the body was going to be sint away over the say to Spain for burial. The news wint out that it   MDSUMMER NIGHT AT THE ROONEYS.        61 had been a faver he died ov, so no one was to ax to see the body, an' no one ivir did that I know'd of, for at the dead of right an undertaker' coach came fof it, an' it was carried away to rist under native earth. So you see, Peggy woman, that the Banshee didn't cry in vain.7 "Faix, thin, Christy, I see nothing of the sort, an' it's little ye know of thim an' their ways if ye suppose they would condescind to cry over a sarvint lad come from some haythenish place that no- body knows any thing about." "Aisy, Peggy/," cried Christy, warningly; "wait a bit, till I tell ye the rist. When the ould lord come home from London there was great doings, for he sint over the county for M[agee of Shamrock afore he'd been an hour- in the house, an' sich talking niver was heard as there was betwane thim, tho' no wan could make out its manling for all the listening they could, bekase they were both talking at wanst in great excitement. We didn't wait long, how and iver, till we knew that Miss Lily was sent for an' the marriage broke off betwane her an' Falix, and the'young master fled away to forrin parts and didn't set'his nose at Downie Castle for years, on account of it coming out, do' what they would to hide it, that he had married a girl in Spain and desarted her cruelly, for all his gentle looks an' swate ways; an' that whin she followed him in disguise, he tuck her in wid some cozening story that kep her quiet till she heard his goings on wid Lily Magee, an' thin her heart broke intirely. The praste was a friend of her own, an' had married her, thinking it was good luck- she was stepping into ; but whin he heard of her wrongs, he had come from abroad, to see her righted, only death had been before him and put her out ov trouble. So it was for a Bathhurst ov Castle Downie that the Banshee wailed, ye see, Peggy Rooney, an' yer mother has tould ye the story many's the time, I know, if ye had not disremimbered it.'5 "Did they do nothing to punish the man who broke her heart?" cried little Addie, in an excited tone, her eyes flashing and her face working with emotion. She appeared quite unconscious of every one except old Christy, and made her inquiry in the form of a demand. ,  , .i     S       TEN rYEARS OF A LIFETIME. "No, little miss," said the old man, with some pride in the interest he had awakened. "Sure there's no law agin breaking hearts; it's well ye should larn that airly, so as to take good care that no one gets a crack at yer own.'" "But there was men there, and what did they need of a law? Couldn't they punish him when they knew God would approve of it?" "Maybe they lift him to his Maker, to account wid him in the ind.  I'm not able to tell ye, miss, for ye see he was a gintle- man, and I was his sarvint; and to pass judgment wouldn't have been in my place, ye know." "I don't know ; I can't tell," said the girl, in a bewildered way. "There always ought to be some one to defend and protect poor creatures who are helpless and iljured ; since there is not, it must be God's will--but I don't understand it."  "Hold yer whisht, Addie, an' don't be spaking out so free,' said Kitty, reprovingly. "Sure ye know  it's the heighth ovill manners for ones ov your age to be talking afore company." "But please, sir," said Addie, unheediing the protest, " will you tell me wlhyv Master Felix was so handsome? Do they ever look really-I mean can people be wicked, and not show it?" "Well, thin, if ye'll belave me, I niver thought about it wan way nor another; though now ye rintion it, I can mind how hard it was for me  to think him wicked and cruel, bekase he was so purty to look at. As far as my knowledge takes me, dear, I think handsome looks is chance gifts, and has but little to do with the hearts ov their owners." "Yes, that's true, I suppose," assented Addie, thoughtfully, and entirely unconscious of Kitty's looks of severe rebuke; " but," she added, " it don't happen amongst common people like us, who are seldom handsome. It's the people who are born to beautiful lives who will deceive by their beauty. I should be afraid of them un- less I  knew them well." "  Orra, will ye hold your pace, Addie, before I take ye home for not knowin' whin to spake and whin to hold yer tonoue?" Kitty, much incensed at the desultory discourse, plucked Addie's   MDSUMMER NIGHT AT THE ROONEYS.         63 sleeve sharply, and the company came to the rescue with such remarks as- 6' Sure, let the little crayture have her say; she harms no one, a^n' it's jist diverting to hear her oulld-fashionle ways." Pat Doyle began to scrape his fiddle at the point, and the wel- come' sound put an end to discussion. Sally Rooney, in right of her position as hostess, approached citd seized the arm of the batshful-looking " boy from the ould country," inviting him in courteous terms to "shake a fut wid her.' Blushing painfully, "the boy " resigned himself to her will, and with a count enapce expressive of no earthly emotion, begani to shuffle his lower limbs in a way that was hard to account for without the presence of springs. The Rooney boys each secured themselves a partner" with the same vigorous absence of ceremony manifested by their sister ; and the remainin neighbors following their example, Addie and the old couple were left spectators. To wiicess the phenomenon of Kitty dancing with Phil, Rooney was a treat that Addie could not enjoy sufficiently till she laughed herself into tears. She took care to hide-both evidences of her satisfaction behind her apron, lest Kitty should take offence ; but her eyes she could not hide, and they danced, and glittered, and darted from side to side, with increasing exhilaration in every glance. Mrs. Rooney rose, and walking in stately decorum  through the reeling, bounding figures, reached the bureau drawers, from one of which she took a white dimity apron, which she carefully un- folded and puton. Having accomplished this addition to her toilet, she returned to her' seat, Iand taking up the air at the note, beat time with her foot till the measure was out. "Stop, now, will yez?9' she remarkeed, a't the first pause. "Ye can take yer breath while Christy and mesilf shows ye what dancing mlanes.  Sure, they cut the double shuffle short now-a-days, an' put no life at all into the step."' "True for ye," responded Christy, with a sigh, at the degen- eracy of the art ; and rising with apparent difficulty, he offered his hand gallantly to tte smilingr Mrs. Rlooney, who allowed herself to be led out with great dignity.     "      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "Och, wait till we see the spirit ov ould Iilkinny," cried Sally Rooney to the boy at her side. "Sure me mother niver was heard to say any one was a good dancer barring ould Molly Brady, an' she was too wake to take a step whin I saw her." "Ould Molly an' mesilf has stood up together scores oy times, thin," acknowledged Christy; "we was counted the best pair at a jig that could be found on a fair-day or a paltern; but the ould craythur is broke up intirely." What tune would ye choose, Mrs. Rooney?" asked young Pat, with a few preliminary scrapes, by way of flourish. Ye know well enough, Pat, that Biddy B1anagat's my choice ov all the world; an' don't ye be braking off it yer time, or losing the spirit ov it. So I warn ye." "Why should I?" asked Pat, and began it with vigor, mak- ing the notes sound sharp and quick under the rasping of his bow.  The old pair faced each other, and acknowledged the position with queer bow and curtsey; then they each struck an attitude, and waiting for the measure, fell in with a shuffle quick and cease- less, and only occasionally relieved with a hop from side to side. At first the motion was stiff, and apparently painful; for the old man accompanied it with an ech I ech! that was very like a groan; but soon the excitement or music, or both together, carried him be-i yond the effort, and his whole face changed into a comical expres- sion of enthusiasm, and his feet flew till the siuffle became a whirl, and the music was not sufficient accompaniment without the tremulous quavering of an ancient whistling which. he kept up. Mrs. Rooney, on the contrary, controlled herself and the inspira- tion of the scene sufficiently to maintain a preternatural solemnity of  countenance, greatly at variance with the movements of her feet.  Her rendition of the figure and step differed from that of her oldr partner, in consisting mainly of ducking and sliding from side to side, with an occasional dive backwards and forwards; and much coquettish effect was imparted to the performance by the manner in which she held her apron corners, and waved them about in sympathy with the measure.   MIDSUMMER NIGHT AT THE ROONEYS.       65 "Kitty," whispered Addle, slipping softly over to her side, "oh, isn't it queer? I want to laugh and I want to cry." "Thin ye better do nayther," returned Kitty, sharply, in the same tone. "What would timpt ye to sich doings?" "It's so queer!" protested the child-" so very queer 1" Kitty only replied to this last by an angry look, and a threat " to lave by her lone at home next, time." But Addie, in no wise awed, besought Sally Rooney to teach her to dance some time. "I want to know how to do it when I'm by myself ;-it would be such fun when Kitty is grumpy, and the place is so dull and quiet." "There's me mother danced down at last," said Sally. "Well, mother, ye'll ache for this the morrow. Come, now, Addie. Pat, give us a tune, will ye, till I show this cuttie how to dance a reel?" '"Addie, don't be making a fool of yerself," said Kitty, warn- ingly. "Sally, ye'll put more nonsense intil her head nor I can take out in a hurry." "Och, Kitty, don't be bothering yerself-yer as crooked as a ram's horn in the timper, an' would want the crayture to be like a nun." So saying, Sally drew her pupil forward, and Pat, giving them a home version of "St. Patrick's Day in the Morning," they began to go through the figure, or rather the step, in which they were interrupted by the arrival of the punch from below, where Phil b had brewed it according to custom, and now undertook to serve it out, with the addition of sweet-cake and rose cordial for the ladies. -  After this refreshment, the merriment set in with earnestness, and a dance being proposed and warmly seconded, Addie took her place beside a gigantic young Irishman, who, according to Sally's ;'   account, was a sprig of a boy, stopping wid the Doyles till he could get a job ov work. In the absence of more lucrative em- ployment, this youth threw his strength and energies into the reel, and danced with such determined force as to start the perspiration on his ingenious brow. Addie, with observant eye; followed and imitated his movements, but being a light, slender creature, her     TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIlE. efforts bore a very different character; in fact, she was so snecess- ful in her attempt, that even Kitty, who was vexed with what shle consideretl ' the impedlince of the thing," acknowledged to Phil, her partner; that " thhe little crayture jist; bate the Dutch for takingi- up a new thng o" Thalt was but among the first of the dances ; but when it was concluded, Addie retired to the recess at the end of the woo eIc mantelpiece, and would dance" no more, though warmly urged to it by complimentary partners, and no longer frowned on by the warning eye of Kitty. Old Christy, with the aid of the inspiring bowl, was recalling fairy gifts that had been bestowed on folk he h ad known or heard of on Mid'summer Night in the old country, and describinsg a ; circle" wherein to sleep was sure to have that effect. There had been one on his Uncle To.'s place, and within that fairy boundary he had just drawn Addi, when. Kitty called over- "Come and take another dance, since yeve larned the way, ye monkey that ye are, It'll be long enough, maybe, before ye have another chance." -  "  'to;", she returned, decidedly; "I'd rather hear all about the good people, as Mr. Doyle calls the fairies; for I think they're the pleasantest things to hear about in all the world. 6h, Kitty, why wasn't I born in a country that had such things?  I know they'd have given me a chance; and I would have asked for a pot of gold, and bought a castle with it, and made every one rich and elegant. Oh, pshaw! I don't see why there are no such things in America. Please go on, Mr. Doyle, and tell me what a leprecan is. You said your grandfather saw one." Old Christy needed no further invitation to plunge deep in a theme that was so entirely his element; and the more punch he sipped the more spirits he produced, and the more feelinglymand believingly he discoursed about them, till, his enthusiasm being contagious, Addie's eyes dilated and her lips parted, as she drew hr chair closer and closer, listening in a!apt, unqueptioning faith to every word he uttered. "Come aw-ay home-it's nearer morning nor midnight," cried   ISBlSUMMER NIGHT AT THE    ROONEYS.     67 Kitty's toice inm herear. She started, and rubbed her eyes; for, in answ ming .the summons, she had come a long way back into the realew i'ld from a moonlight niglht in the past, with a pale light shining on a green, smooth 'bank, under the shadow of an old ruin, where she had seen a dance of little folks dressed in green, with tiny silver stars on their foreheads, and butterfly-wings on their backs. Murty Feeney, a playfellow of Old Christy, hadl become bewitched in gazing on the scene that the old 'man's description made Addclie see again ; and she seemed in a fair way to follow his example, for she refused to come back to the necessity of leaving the tale unfinished and the propriety of going home. "For I won't know what became of Murty, if I do," she urged. "Oh, Kitty, you're mean and cross becausp, your own story's told, and you don't care to hear any one else's." "I'll lave ye at home when I come out a gin," returnediKitty, warningly ; aid, recognizin:g the voice of power, the brief insubor- dination subsided. I'm coming ; but oh, Mr. Doyle, when Kittv fetches me again, you won't folget where you left off, will you? It was just where Murty spolie out in astonishment, and the music stopped, and the  a lights went out. I dare say you could tell me if they were angry and punished him ; but I want to hear it all a,nd 'll beg Kitty to let me come with her again. She is a good, kind, old Kitty, too ;--and you wolit be cross and refuse, will you, Kitty?" But Kitty made no promises, being bent on getting home and to bed; for, like many another, pleasure was always followed in her mind by a vague self-reproach, and much trouble and self- denial had made simple enjoyment appear clandestine flight from duty, to be followed by rigorous self-discipline in the way of gloomy thouight and doleful anticipation. "Maybe the ladies is ailing, or needing me some way or an- other, all this time, while we've been just throwing away tl(p time ill one foolitch dclivarsion after another.' Troth, thim IRooneys is too much given to-sich doings, and they niver know what it is to take a thought ov trouble whin there's fun going on." Thus commenting on the evening's entertainment, she reached     68       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. the front door of the millinery establishment, and, letting herself and Addie in with a night-key, they stole softly up-stairs; and Kitty, first listening at her mistresses' doot to be convinced they slept calmly, went softly to bed for the few hours that intervened before daybreak. CHAPTER VI. ADDIE HAS A GLIMPSE OF HGH LIFE. "KITTY!" called Miss Debby's voice, from the top of the stair, "send up Addie as soon as you get through breakfast. We want her to go with a message." "Yis, miss," responded Kitty; and coming back into the kitchen, after answering the call, she ,turned to Addie, who had just desisted from performing the reel-step of the night before,'as she carried her cup to be filled with tea from the old black pot at the top of the stove--"Do ye mind that? She said ye're to go up and make ready to go an arrant; axnd, if ye have any wit left in ye, give up sich nonsense as yer going on at now. Sure, Addie, yer the most unaisy thing I iver laid eyes on; yer niver at rest, but ye must be up to some caper. Give over-don't ye see yer dribbling the tay from one end of the place till the other?"1 "Where am I to go, do you suppose?" asked Addie, not at all discomfited by Kitty's reproof. "I wonder if I can wear the flat AIiss Debby gave me. There, I'm off now; and, Kitty, if you'll set the things in the sink, I'll wash them nicely when I come' back." "Put on your best things," said Miss Debby, " for you are to go up-town to Miss Farron; and you'll have to wait for her to write an answer to the note I send. Now, Addie, don't stare like a Hottentot that never was in a decent place before; it's the worst fault I find to you-the way you have of stretching your eyes at any thing out of the common way."   ADDIE HAS A GLI/MPSE OF HGH LIFE.       69 "I'm to go where that beautiful lady lives. I'm so glad! She looks like a splendid picture; and-I can't help looking at lier." "Pshaw  that's nonsense, Addie.  Get ready quickly, and mind what you go for. You're not sent up to Bellingham Square for the sake of gratifying your taste in beauty." So saying, Miss Debby wrote a little note on thin, scented paper, in that running Italian hand in vogue with ladies of her day, and begged for fuller directions concerning the lace cape that had been suggested the day before, "since, knowing how exquisite Miss Farron's own taste is, the Misses Le Roy do not dare to rely on their own in so important a matter." This was the purport of the note; and, with full directions as to the whereabouts of the house in Bellingham Square,-and an added injunction against wide-eyed admiration, Addie departed, in her best clothes, to deliver it and wait for an '-answer. It was no common delight for this girl to enjoy the freedom of sight and sound in the handsome streets on ,a bright, sunshiny day. The mere act of walkling in her new hat with buff ribbons was exhilarating, and the additional pleasure of the clear sunlight, the tempting shop-windows and well-dressed passers-by, filled her cup to overflowing, and made an occasional skip a necessity, as an out-, let to her high spirits. It was part of her system to take in such streets as were favorite promenades, without much regard to their being out of her way. She therefore arrived at Bellingham Square by a rather circuitous route, that took in the show-windows of half a dozen picture-stores in different localities, two 'large china-stores that sold Parian figures, and most of the book and fancy stores whose existence she was aware of. And I'll run all the way going back to make up the time," she determined, "and then it won't make much difference to Mis Debby, although it is so much pleasure to me." This was her conclusion when in fulness of time she reached the square, and proceeded to look for the [number to which she had been directed. It was a large and handsome mansion, with a wide hall-door opening in the centre, and a vestibule paved with shining-       70       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. marble. The great panes of violet-tinted glass, from which the   I heavy lace and gorgeous damask were swept away in the drawing- room windows, filled Addie's mind with such wondering admiration, even on an outside view of the house, that she felt it necessary to recall AMiss Dchby's admonition regarding the size of her eyes  i before she rang the bell and waited for admission. The grave and !: respectful mulatto that had often brought messages for his young  ; mistress answered the summons.                "Good-morning, sir," said Addie, timidly; 'will you please   1k give this note to AMiss Farron, and tell her Miss Le Roy's little ' girl is waiting for an answer?"  "You had better step into the hall and wait," said the grave   i man, politely, and Addie followed him in, utterly forgetting the check she had determined to put on her wondering eyes the moment she caught sight of the frescoed walls and beautifully carved hall f'urniture. Arched doors of dark and polished wood opened on either hand; and at the further end, a broad staircase, covered with soft, rich carpet, and adorned with wide silver rods, led upwards. Not heeding the servant's motion  to a seat in one of the hall chairs, Addie turned slowly, as if on a pivot, round and round, taking in a view  of every thing presented to her gaze. Long before she had satisfied herself as to the figures painted in imita- tion of basso-relievo on the walls, the man returned with the unex- pected message that Miss Farron desired the Misses Le Roy's girl to go up to her room for a moment. Without reply, Addie instantly followed the man, who  turned to show the way as he delivered the summons. Wondering at the soft yielding of the carpet, that seemed to receive and almost close over her feet; wondering at the heavily  : carved balustrade, that she feared to touch in passing, lest she slshould mar its polish; wondering at the broad hall above, with its still more beautifully colored walls and scattered gems of furniture, Addie's eyes distended beyond any power of control, and admira- tion and delight mingling with the feeling, as her attendant threw open a  door and disclosed Miss Farron sitting in her rare beauty, rarely and fitly surrounded by inanimate splendor, she paused i!:i   ADDIE HAS A, GLITMPS:E OF HGI LIFE.      71 trembling on the threshold, every featurs in her face expressive of the effect of the view. All that exquisite blending in color and device in form could accomplish combined to beautify the apart- ment. Delicate inventions in luxury alId rare and curious orna- ments surrounded her; sweet faces 1loked down on her from famous pictures on the wall; groups of beautiful and tiny fig-ures, carved in Parianmarble, were scattered here and there ; cushions to nestle in and tread upon, couches and chairs that would tempt one to lounge away a lifetime, and many things beyond her know- ledge in name or use, crowded into the picture; but foremost in it sate the handsome girl, still more handsome for being, as she was, the centre of loveliness. She seemed the realization of some fairy dream of beauty and splendor, and Addie said softly to herself, "'Tlhe little people could do no more, with all their wonderful power." Miss Farron was more accessible in her own boudoir, evidently, than she had appeared to be on Addie's first knowledge., She smiled and moved her hand encour'agingly, as an invitation for the child to enter. "So you are the one who came with the note?" she said. "I thought it might be so, and told Julius to send you up. Sit down there, please, whilst I read it. Yes, take that chair by the win- dow, and--la I ha! you funny child, don't stretch your eyes so- pray don't." "Everybody tells me that," said Addie, in a disturbed tone; they all think it's staring, but it really is not. I like to look, and if I look at all, I must look a great deal. You ha ve seen every thing, Miss Farron, and you don't know how one feels who has every thing yet to see*" "I know that you are an odd creature, and that it amuses me to hear you talk," said the lady, carelessly. "I don't think that I care to amuse you," said Addie, slowly; and she broutght her wandering eyes steadily to bear on the slightly raised brows of the only half-gracious bcauty, while ,a quick flush dawned on her sallow 'cheek.  "To be odd and queer and fiunny don't seem to be pleasant when yoil mention it. Somechow, I don't mind Kitty  or Miss Tod saying so; but     72       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. you are different from them, and have a different way in every thing.". Miss Farron laughed outright, but not agreeably or mirthfully. "Oh, I'm different from Kitty or Miss Tod, am I?" she cried. "And who are Kitty and Miss Tod?" "Kitty is a great deal better in her heart than you, because she is really better and nobler and less selfish than anybody else in the world; but she's all over freckles, and rough and coarse with work and trouble ; for she slaves all the time, and takes no com- fort. Aliss Tod is better tempered than you are, I think, and can make people laugh and enjoy themselves ; but her hair is short and red, and she don't look elegant at all. They both call me all sorts of names, but it don't insult me, because there's nothing cold or bitter in their tone. 1 think there is in yours." "You are bold as well as queer," said Miss Farron, coolly; "bring me that little desk from the table at your side." When Addie had placed it before her, she opened it, and, laying a small sheet of note-paper out, took up a pen and dipped it in the ink. Then she glanced up at Addie's serious face, and its in- tense thoughtfulness made her smile. "You have a busy mind, child, and won't enjoy much rest if you think so earnestly over every word that is said to you," she said. "But I don't," said Addie, decidedly. "A great many people talk to me that I never think about at all, and scarcely remember what they say when they have done speaking ; but I somehow take one of every kind to think about-if you can understand me-and you are the grandest of the grand kind, and the hand- somest of the handsome ones. So I want to know what you mean." "What I mean i" repeated the lady, in a puzzled tone. "No, that's not just it," confessed Addie ; " but I can't express it exactly. You might be made of different flesh and blood from us poor ones, you are so far away from our ways and our mean, common lives. So, when I say I want to understand you, I mean I want to fiafd out if God has given you- natures like the fortunes   ADDIE HAS A GLIMPSE OF HGH LIFE.        73 you are born to-if you, yourself, are as bright and lovely as all these things about you." "Oh, it's more of your oddity, is it? Well, do you come to any conclusion about it? What do you think of me?" "I think you are beautiful," said Addie, slowly, "but not-so good or kind as you might be ; but still I think I like you even when you are not agreeable." Miss Farron took up the pen she had laid down, and wrote hurriedly for a moment or two ; then, closing the paper in note- form; she looked up, saying, in her usual cold, careless tone- "There, give this. to Miss Le Roy, and I hope she will remem- ber vWhat I order next time; it's so tires-ome to have to go over the whole thing again after one has forgotten it." "Shall I say that?" asked Addie, pausing, as she took the note. "You shall say what you please; and now, pray, let yourself oalt, without my having the trouble of ringing for Julius." "Yes, miss," returned Addie, respectfully, and stepped towards the door. As she laid her hand on the knob it turned, and a gentleman entered. He was tall and fine-looking, but with no possible likeness to his daughter; so that you could not recognize their relationship. He had nothing of her beauty, being dark to swarthiness in complexion, and boasting no handsome feature ex- cept a pair of full, deep, gray eyes, that were strangely changeful and expressive. Something odd about these eyes was, that although when in repose there was a quiet thoughtfulness, amount- ing almost to sadness, yet the subtle light and glow of an all- pervading humor kept them in play constantly, and gave the face its happy character. Iis voice was clear and ringing, and his whole appearance was strangely youthful for his years. He almost stumbled over Addie, for he was eager to bespeak his daughter's attention. "I beg your pardon," he said, kindly; then, turning to her, cried, "Come, Julia, I want you to see the picture of Sancho Panza I have just had hung in the library; it completely satisfies me, and if it makes you laugh I shall call it perfect." 4     74       TEN2 YEARS OF A LIFETIME3, Miss Farron rose slowly. "It's folly to ask me when you lknow I shall disappoint ;.you," she said. "I never could see any thing amrsing in that coarse creature, and I think a forced laugh is a wretched compensation for the effort it takes to produce it." "Fudge!said her father, impatiently; "'don't tell me that Heaven ever created a human being without giving them the powers of laiughing, and enjoying it, too. It's impossible, totally impossible, unless they are meant for fools, and have no need of perceptions. You, having sense enough to make an excuse for not lauhin   m  ust laugh or do violence to your nature as it was made and intended to be. Here's this child here, who never heard of Sancho Panza--have you, my dear?V 't No, sir," said Addie, promptly following him with strict attention. "Well, I'll prove to you the force of innate and uncultivated perception in this instance. She has the face of an observant and appreciative creature, and should have the opportunity of testing it. Come with me." With a sudden trembling in every limb, Addie glanced towards the lady, to see if she dare take advantage of the offer; and, find- ing that she swept by her with listless grace, not apparently con- scious of the fact either way, she followed, with her heart throbbing and her cheelks glowing with the excited anticipation of seeing so fine a sight. It was merely crossing the hall, and they entered the library, Addie cast an astonished glance around her, and admiration be- came awe. The splendor of the carved and polish6ed cases, the profusion of the books, pictures, statues, and all sorts of quaint and curious things, utterly abashed her, and she could only draw her breath quickly and close her mouth resolutely to prevent her crying out in enthusiastic approval. .Suddenly she laughed out- right, a quick sharp ha, ha, that broke off in blank confusion at recognizing its own sound. "What is it?" cried Mr. Farron. "Do you see Sancho? I told you, Julia, it's natural perception-the child laughs at a glance. You couldn't help it, could you?'   ADDIE ITAS A GLIMPSE OF IIGII LIFE.      75 "No, sir,' confessed Addie, in great confusion. "I don't know which picture you mean, and I have only seen them all together yet; but I beg your pardon-it was knowing that this splendid large room is a library, and thinking of the old broken box of books at home that the ladies call by that name, that made -nme laugh. It is so funny to think of the two at once." "Where does this child belong to, Julia?" he asked, after a long, earnest look at her face' Miss Farron had fallen into one of ,the tempting easy-chairs, and was looking over the new engravings on the great library-table. She merely turned her glance for a moment towards Addie, as if referring the trouble of explaining her identity to herself, and then went on with her occupation. "I'm Miss Le Rloy's errand-girl, sir. Miss Le Roy, the milli- ner, if you please," explained Addie, at .this hint. "Ah! that is it," said the gentleman ; "then you have not much time to read about Sancho, or any one else, I'm sure. So your opinion is valuable, because unbiased. Look there, over by the window, at that fat little fellow in the yellow coat, standing before the tall, thin one, and tell me what you think of them." "Ia! ha I ha!" laughed Addie, after an instant's silence. "Oh, they're funny! Look at the little round one's eyes-they twinkle so ; it can't be painted--for Mr. Siebert paints eyes, and he never makes them twinkle. Just see his mouth-he's going to ,speak. And that tall, thin, dreary man-he's not funny. I thought he was at first, but now I see- he is sad and gentle, and oh! I like him; he has deep, lovely eyes, though he looks so queer that- I laughed at him at first, and thought he was meant to be comical. Now I know he's not.' "Should you like to read his story?" said the gentleman, eagerly. "Yes, indeed!" answered Addie, warmly; "for I know it's beautiful and good-he could never be cruel or wicked--but he looks strange. Was he a little wild, or wrong in his mind, sir?" "Did any one ever tell you about him?" "No one but the picture ; they all tell a story in a short way, When they're good, isn't that what they're painted for? Mr. Sie-     76       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. bert has a painting of a girl dipping herself into water, with the spray all dashed about her eyes and hair so I looked at it every day before I knew him well enough to ask him aboutiit, and I thought out the story, and he says it's almost like the one it was meant to tell.' Miss Farron laid down the engraving she held and sank back in her chair. "This girl was sent here with a message about the lace on my opera hat," she suggested. Addie suddenly recollected herself, and colored highly. She looked at the little note she carried and dropped a curtsey. "Thank you, miss; and thank you, sir, for letting me see these beautiful things. Please excuse me if I seem rude or bold. I don't mean to do so."'  She gave a little supplementary curtsey at this, and Iran down stairs, and Julius let her out into the warm sunshine, that almost blinded her after the sweet, subdued light she had been in. "  Oh! isn't it grand to be rich and splendid?" she said to her- self, as she flew over the pavement in her anxiety to make up for lost time. "If I was born to be so happy I'd help every one else, I know I would, and Kitty should have a house of her own, with plenty of windows and a great big kitchen-fire." Suddenly re- membering that she had not seen a cat in the mansion'she had just left, she made up her mindlto make friends witA Julius, when next he appeared at the milliner's, for the purpose of gaining him over to introduce some homeless wanderer into comfort and high life in the spacious kitchen that she knew must belong to such an estab- lishment. J Z   MOURNING WORK.  CHAPTER     VII. MOURNING WORK.  ADDIE'S allusion to Miss Tod's personal appearance scarcely did justice to that young woman. To be sure her hair was reddish in shade, and she wore it short; but she had a kind, merry pair of brown eyes, and a mouth full of good-humor and white teeth, that won ypu over when she laughed into the belief that it didn't matter very Iuch about the shortness of her nose, after all. She was quite young in years, but her experience in bonnet-making dated so far back that she occupied a position of trust in the workroom of the Misses Le Roy, and was second in authority only to those ladies themselves. Between her and Addie there had always ex- isted the best of feelings, and although an absence of restraint sometimes extended to comical recriminations on both sides, there was no ill-humor on either. Miss Tod came in the morning and went away in the evening like the rest of the girls, and brought in a little basket a mouthful of lunch, to be snatched at any convenient moment during the day; though sometimes, in stress of work, it would be neglected entirely, and a glass of table-beer or cup of tea, served without ceremony by'Kitty, and swallowed in hasty gulps by the girls holding their heads sidewise, beyond the range of the delicate work on their knees, would be the only interruption to the day's toil. A few weeks after Addie's introduction to the Farron mansion brought a perfect avalanche of black crape, mode, and bombazine into the workroom, and drove the girls crazy. Legitimately it was an idle- season, and the few who had friends living at easy dis- tances from town were preparing to steal off for a day or two's rec- reation, whilst those obliged to remain had planned little trips in the cars or excursion-boats on what they termed "slack days." The relentless destroyer that broke up their plans was the ill wind that blew M[iss Le Roy good, but deprived them of holidays with- out material recompense, since they were engaged by the quarter, /      78       TEN YEARS OP A LIFETIME. idle time and busy paid alike in the bargain. To be sure Miss Norall, il settling, would often remember the overwork and "make it up" in some way, but it was not always satisfactorily to her handmaids, since among them she had gained the name of being constitutionally and unalterably close; and the bird in the hand was the little excursions they had anticipated, for which the possible profit of making up the black was disposed as one in the bush, not to be counted on too surely. "If they'd only give a body some of their things that's no use to 'em," said Mary Jobson, one of the youngest and most discon- tented of the girls, "it would be a cofort. It's only three weeks since we finished the order we had for the whole family, and half of them can't be worn yet, when this young cousin has to up and die." "Yes, it was mean enough in her," assented Miss Tod; "though I dare say she was the last to think about the trouble she was giving us. Do you know, girls, she was to have been married to a great match, they say, and when she was here last week she looked at white hats for weddings with such blushing and smiling that even Miss Norah smiled too, and said she supposed she must con- gratulate her soon." "Poor girl!" said a voice full of tenderness and sorrow. It was Addie's, and they all looked up at the sound. Some smiled, and others laughed outright, at the absurdity of the sympathy. '"What do you know about it, you monkey?" asked Miss Tod. "I only know what you have said, and I  think it very sorrow- ful," a nswered Addlie, quietly. "The dear help us!" cried AMiss Debby; "listen to young Senti- ment there, and see the length of her countenance I  It needn't worry you much, Addie; for the poor thing's better off going to her long-lhome in peace, than if she had married the man. Thlat Colonel Leonard, you know, Margaret," she continued, turning to Miss Tod-"   he came here three years ago with that pretty girl, Miss Nettie Russell, and I never saw a man strive harder to win a girl's heart for the pleasure of throwing it away when he got it. It's a  trick he has, they say. A male coquette-Heaven help us!"   MOURNING WORK.            79  I hope this loss will break his heart," said Miss Tod, fervently. "No such good lack," said Miss Debby; " that sort of man's heart isift brittle,* 'ITheyfre all tough enough,' remarked a rosy young woman from the furthest end of the room, with sententious bitterness. You ought to know, Sally,"' returned Miss Debby, laughing, "' for I suppose you've done your dhty ia trying to break o the -few that came in your way.' "' Oh, Miss Deb3by,9 disclaimed the girl, with a conscious blush, "I don't know nothing about lem, for myself, but I've read some books, I caln'tell you, and that's what they all say." "Well, let Colonel Leonard fed as lhe may," said Miss Debby, decidedly, "Eleanor Wharton is dead, and all the living Whar- tons want black bonnets ina consequence. So, Addie, hold this crape while I cut it up for trimming.' "Was she pretty?" asked Addie, softly, as she knelt on a low stool before the milliner, holding the black stuff at arm's length, and regarding it sadly as part of the mournful picture that was fixing itself im her mind. "Pretty enough, and too pretty forlthe matter of that," said Miss Debby, following the movement of the scissors along the crease she had made, with a keen eye to its straightness. "If she hadn't been 1handsome Colonel Leonard wouldwnt have fancied her; and if hbed let her alone she might ,have been living yet. It was brain fever, they said; but the girl that brought the note last night gave Kitty a hint that there was something more in it than every one knew. There had been a sort of quarrel between them, and the colonel had giveln her some trouble that drove her wild iu the head." "Well, well," said Miss Ted, "I hope he'll suffer for it, whlat- ever it was;  buit just as sure as rm here, the next girl he srmiles at will be as eager  to secure him as if he had never broken a womanlls heart': "That's something I doia t believe in, myself," said Miss Debby, quietly. "W hat is it that you donst believe in, Debby?" asked  her sis- ter, Miss Norah, com-ing in with a bolt of black ribbon. " What     I-L   j AlKC OF A LIFETIME. a smell of burnt vinegar there is here I Drop that window behind  you, Mary Jobson, or you'll be sick, some of you; and, Addie. tell Kitty to make tea at noon, and get a basketful of bunns to give the girls a mouthful, and not lose time. What were you saying about believing, Debby?," "Oh, I just said I didn't believe in hearts being broken. I ought to have put it in different words, for that don't express what I mean. This is what I intended to say: I don't think disap- pointment and crosses in love kill people, as they say in novels and poetry. I think it's a mighty hard thing to get out of this world from wishing to go, or many a one that's livifg and living like, would have been dead years ago." liss Norah sighed a soft and almost inaudible sigh, and, laying down the ribbon, went back again to her own domain without a word; but Addie followed her with a look full of interest, with something of awe in it, till Miss Debby sharply enjoined her to run down witl her message to Kitty, before she forgot all about it. "I'?n going," said Addie, rising slowly; " but you've made a mis- take-indeed you have, Miss Debby. Sorrow can kill people, I  know it can, and it's an awful withering death to die-worse than all the fevers that doctors know the name of." Miss Debby regarded her for an instant with amused surprise. "Will you listen to the young owl?" she cried, appealing to the workroom at large. "And whose blighted doom did you see car- ried out, Addie dear? Or is it your own heart that's consuming in grief untold?" The girls laughed, as they always did when Addie's peculiarities. were in question, but she seemed entirely unconscious of the sound. "Yes," she said, "I believe it because I saw it; my mother's   X heart broke, and she died. That was a blessing, for it isn't the breaking that's so dreadful, since it puts an end to grief and misery ; but it's the dreary pining that goes before it-the sick, sick feeling that asks or knows no remedy but death." "Addie," said Miss Debby, gravely, and in a low voice, "your mother died years ago; you were too young to know any thing about broken hearts then."   MOURNERS.            81 Addie was at the door by this time, and she answered, just as she closed it on herself-            , "I remembered all I saw without knowing the reason why it should have been so. I'm learning a reason for something every day, now, Miss Debby." There," said Margaret Tod, drawing a long breath as she dis- appeared, "that young one is too sharp, and there is no sense in letting her hear every thing that's said. That old goose of a painter up-stairs talks to her about things she don't understand, till her head's half turned with nonsense." "I'm sorry I have to send her up'to the Whartons about the, trimming--she'll be full of coffins and corpses the rest of the week. If I could spare another girl I wouldn't, but Kitty couldn't do an errand any ihore than an elephant ;" and Miss Debby looked really annoyed at the necessity. CHAPTER      VIII. MOURNERS. THE Whartons lived in an old-fashioned but handsome and spa- cious house in the upper part of the town, away from the showy splendor of Bellingham Square, but still having about it certain solid and respectable recommendations as a neighborhood. A number of good old families, with a sprinkling of Quakers among them, had lived there from father to son for quite a distant retro- spect of generations, considering they were American; and while but few improvements went on, and red brick and white marble still reigned superior to innovating granite, there Was an admirable order and freshness about every thing, that it would have seemed sacrilege to disturb for the sake of attempting anyfiner architec- tural effects. As Addie turned into this locality-Worth-street by name-she noted, a close carriage stopping at the door of the house she had 3*     82       TEN YEARS -OF A LIFETIME. settled in'her mind as No. 98, and the-residence of the Whartons. It was a dull afternoon, wearing late, with a promise of a storm 4 at its close. Occasionally a gust of wind, sudden but' shortlived, whirled a few scattered leaves from the clean, red pavelnent, and, chasingc them along the gutter for a rod or two, died out as quickly as it came, leaviing them to fall fluttering here and thlre il their interrupted flight. One of these puffs of breezes threw out the long, black streamers from the door and windows of the house slhe apiproached, and before they had fallen back into place, Addie saw a handsome gentleman leave the carriage, and go slowly and dejectedly up the steps. He was not so young as she had pictured all lovers to be, but le ;as certainly grand and impressive in appearance; so she decided at once that he was Colonel Leonard, and gave herself up so entirely to his survey that she stubbed her toes in ascending the steps, without looking where she placed her feet. The object of her regard seemed perfectly unconscious of her presence, and Addie's heart rejoiced exceedingly to see how miserable and unhappy he looked.  The door opened in answer to his ring, and she stole in behind him, being subdued and almost breathless in the atmosphere of death. The gentleman merely said- "Tell the ladies that I  am here," and passed into a parlor at the right of the door ; and Addie, without speaking, gave her note to the waiter, and took up her station in the hall.     t "Miss Nettie will be down  soon," said the man, returning; "and you're to come up-stairs, my young gal," he added, confiden- tially, to Addie.  Up-stairs was a literal truth, for into the back chamber, on the third floor, at the right of the hall, did he conduct her, which proved to be a large, disordered apartment, strewn with cuttings of black material, and pervaded by the same stifling smell of warm vinegar that Addie had left behind her in the workroom. Two neat and busy young women, with pins quilted all over the front of their dresses and basting-threads scattered in sprays over their skirts, sat side by side, snipping and stitching in an industrious kind of solemnity, asking each other questions in whispers or dumb-   MOURNERS.             83 show, whilst a third and more important-looking one was cutting out a pattern over the figure of a slender, pretty girl, with a swol- lei, -red-looking pair of eyes. Another less pretty and les emo- tional young lady was seated writing busily at a small deskiln one corner, and ou a -little table at her hand were- masses of note-paper and envelopes heavily edged with black. Towards her, at a motion of her hantd, Addie approached, and, drooping her eyes, waited till she should be addressed. Every thing around r her impressed the impressible creature? from the scattered fragments of mourainig lying about on all sides, to the tear-stained face of the pretty girl who was being measured and fitted, The young lady beside her uttered a deep and labored sigh, and looked up the little note she had brought her, and glanced over it again. "Ah, dear me! dear me P" exclaimed this young lady, sighng again most profoundly; " it is so difficult to sustain one's thoughts on any fixed subjcc under a pressure of sorrow  such as ours. I shall have to look over Miss Le Roy's note again.  I have entirely forgotten what she says." With an elaborate appearance of effort, Miss Wharton  sighed once more, and composed  herself to read. As  she read' she fell into consideration long anld deep; the scissors snipped, the threads. snapped, and all' the room was silent. whilst she thought. "Alice," she si hel again, coming out of her cogitation, "here is a serious bit of annovance.  Miss Le Roy tells me that white crape as face-trimming is positively inadmissible, and what are we to do?" The red-eyed girl iurned, on her so suddenly that the dressmaker hlad to withdraw her scissors swiftly, or they would have done ler flesh a mischief. ' Do!" she 'cried out in a voice that was choked and angry- "do!   Why, what should we  do .a? hat's  the good of black crape or white crape?  It' all over with poor Nell, and it won't help ller.  There, ta re this thing off me-sew it up anyhow-it don't matter!  Wh t' s the use of fussing and fixing? Oh! my poor Nell! my darling, darling Nell!" and with cries that were groans, and seemed to rend her very soul, the poor girl dashed the     84       TEN YEARS OFi A LIFETIME.  pin-be-stuck boddice off her, and threw herself headlong on a lounge ill the corner.                 I "It's so sad, you know," said the other, gently, and with a la- boriously apparent effort at self-control. She seemed to address  no one in particular, but to merely be setting herself right with the world. "It's a luxury togive way, but then some one must make an effort-that is the hardest part of sorrow. Alice dear, I envy you your relief in tears." But they didn't seem to be a relief, as they gathered and fell amid great storms of sobs that increased in strength with every gust of weeping. The door opened-whilst yet the placid lady struggled with and vanquished her own woe, for the further con- sideration of the weighty point of the white crape-and a fine-look- ing blonde, evidently another sister, from her likeness to the ether two, appeared, fully dressed in deep mourning, and pulling the cor- ners of her black-edged handkerchief in a perturbed way, began at once to say-  "It's a shame, it is really, and you could have done it just as well as I! What aml I to say, I should like to know?" Her tone was pettish and injured in the extreme; so was her manner. "It's all very well for you to say that I am the one to see people, be- cause my things are done, and it don't hurt me to cry;} but what am I to do when I do see them? I can't keep on forever saying one:t ling-and it's just a sha e!" 'Really, Nettie," cried her /ustained and self-controlled sister, "you and Alice together are so unaccustomed to trouble that you are entirely incapable of taking a stand against it. 'Remember, deaP, that for others' sakes we should not bend utterly prostrate, holyever weary the blast." Here she sighed again-a long, deep-drawn sigh, as one who had riseA, and, though shaken, should not fall again.  "Jane!" demanded the blonde mourner, irascibly, "what am I to tell Colonel Leonard? I mean, how am I to- Ohl good gra- cious, what does the man mean, coming and bothering, when only last month I had to go down and congratulate him, and all sorts of tiresome stuff!"   MOURNERS.             85 Addie kept her eyes in subjection, and standing in the shadow behind the writing-table, seemed almost unobserved; but though she did not raise her head or stare, she could not prevent her glances creeping along the carpet to where the throbbing, sobbing figure lay prostrate on the sofa, keeping time to her dreary moans by rocking to and fro. Something really distressing has occurred, Nettie," said Jane, in a low voice; "it 'is equally important to us all that it should be decided about at once, for here are all these notes to write; and- ma cannot be expected to care, since she wears black already and would not change her face-trimming." "What is it?" asked Nettie, with awakening interest.  She stopped pulling her handkerchief and biting her lips, and assumed a listening attitude. Her sisters-voice sank still lower as she repeated-"Miss Le Roy writes mg that the white crape bows I had relied on to take the dead black shade off our faces are totally out of the question in the present style, and that all she can do is to frill a full illusion border, no softer than the heavy bombazine or stiff black crape." "Oh, bother!" cried Miss Nettie, now fairly exasperated. "It's all a dreadful imposition. I don't care what Miss Le Roy says, for Lily Dolbert went to Madame Lubert, after Miss Le Roy had told her marabouts would not be worn last winter, and she proved by Paris letters that they were all the rage there. So I don't put a shadow of faith in Miss Le Roy when she says such shocking things. I would look like a witch in black, without a particle of relief, and I'll go to Madame Lubert myself. Oh, pshaw! what a bore! I can't go myself, but I'll send to her, and let Miss Le Roy know we won't be made frights of. Tell that girl to tell her all about it. Dear me there's that colonel waiting. Eleanor knew how to talk to hih, and no one else does. Why couldn't she have-Oh, dear! it's too badl" Thus bemoaning her cousin's loss and her own consequent trouble, Miss Nettie went down to condole with "that bothering colonel," and Miss Jane fell into another train of thought about the dreadful alternative of looking like a witch, or defying the style.     TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "Miss Dolbert is below, and she says may she run up a mo- ment?" announced the man who had opened the door for Addie. Miss Jane's face brightened instantly. "By all means," she said, cheerfully, and then composed her countenance to sadness, and took up her pocket-halldkerchief. Alice,"  she said, softly, to her sister-but there was a warn- ing tone in her voice-" do, iu mercy's name, sit up and smooth your hair.  If you are going to roll over yourself in tkat way,'- pray put on a dressing-wraplper, and you won't look so shockingly tossed.'  To this sible counsel the other returned no answer, and only gathered herself closer amonng the cushions, as if striving to get out of sirght and hearing of the world. The door opcned, and a  light figure, fluttering in silk and lace, appealed.  Miss Jane rose, and, burying her face in her handker- chief, held out her hand.  Miss Dolbert, a commonplace-looking girl, but so exquisitely arrayed as to counterfeit both style and beauty, advanced, and, with whispered condolencec, kissed her friend tenderly. "So dreadfully sudden, too!" she murmured ; "shocked us all completely; and you are quite blroken down, I'm sure. Poor Alice I  she should go to bed, really. We are all so sorry for you P She had now approached the sofa, from which Alice rose, stiffly, and looked at her almost vacantly with her dull, inflamed eyes. MAiss Dolbert took her passive hand and kissed'her passive clheclk. Tlten she drew back and almost shuddered., "Why, she's in a blazing fever!" she cried, with a little start of alarm. "Oh, Jane, you shlould do sonaething for her!" "I'm well enough,' said Alice, listlessly, and, as if denying the suspicion of fever, she immediately fell to shivering as if she were chilled to the heart. Jane glanced at her with less sympathy than might have been looked for, and saying that she should see to, her having the doctor when her mother awoke, plunged at once into the important and distressing point of the white trimming.   MOURNERS,             87 "Ma is taking her afternoon sleep, and being so broken down by our trouble, cannot be disturbed," she explained. "I thought of you, Lily, the moment I received this note. I said to myself, there's dear'Lily Dolbert, who has the best taste and the kindest nature in existence, and she can advise us. 'Your coming is so op- portune that it seems providential, and I really think we are right in believing Heaven will not afflict people beyond their strengt&, and that we should look for gleams of mercy through the darkest clouds of sorrow."7 "How beautifully you bear trouble, Jane!"7 said her friend softly, in tender admiration.  ".It is a lesson, really; but you always were so strong and self-controlled." Miss Jane-dusted her eyes lightly with-,her handkerchief, and kissing her friend for sympathy, put Miss Le Roy's note in her hand.  Alice dropped back in her place on the sofa, and lav quiet and motionless, as if a, stupor had succeeded her paroxysm of weep- ing. "Let me see the Misses La Roy for you," suggested Miss Dol- bert, when she had finished reading, her face full of the importance of the subject. "I think something could be managed in the way of crape flowers. A cousin, you know,  Why, the winters wore mode ribbon for their  grandfather, because the dull shade of bom- bazine made them seem so'sallow; and a cousin isn't so near a rela- tive, I should say." "Of course not. I said to Nettie that you were just the one to set us right," said Jane, subduing a rising disposition towards clleerfulness as she sow a way out of her trouble, and bringing Her delicate cobweb of a handherchief in play as a cover to her satisfac- tion. " It is, perhaps, scarcely allowable, the extent of mourning we have designed. Strictly speaking, we might have confined ourselves " to dull black silks, that are so becoming when soft and rich, with crape folds and bands; but poor Cousin Eleanor was so dear to us "1., j The girl on the sofa sprang up ; her face was scarlet, and eyes were wild.  "She   isn't dead," she cried; "it's a .cheat; people have been       88       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.  buried alive often because they seemed dead. It's a trance; I'm sure it is only a trance. Oh, Nell, my darling, my darling! They shan't put her in the earth. Let me look at her: I'll brings her back, indeed; indeed I will. Oh, don't go on sewing that horrible black stuff; don't, don't, don't!" She waved her hands about, and threw back her falling hair like a distracted creature as she was, and Miss Dolbert stepped towards the door in alarm. Her sister looked at her in strong displeasure. "It is positive selfishness," she said, not loudly, but angrily, "and I shall be obliged to rouse ma, although it is so necessary that she should not be disturbed." "About the veils," suggested Miss Dolbert, in a whisper. "If you haven't decided, I think I can arrange them so that the white crape will be perfectly proper." "Alice, pray try to be reasonable. Yes, that will be so good in you; and I never thought of it ; we can deepen the mourning in them, so as to allow a slight relief in the face arrangement." Here she turned to Addie, saving "Stop here, child, for a mo- nent ; I'll mention, in my note to Miss Le Roy, that I was obliged to detain you." Miss Jane and her friend in need then retired together. Addie remained standing where she had stood all the time, and one of the dressmakers said to the other, in a low tone-. "That young girl must be tired." "Why don't you sit down?" said the one who had been cutting out the pattern, and as she spoke she moved a chair towards her. "Thank you, ma'am," said Addie, and dropped into it. At the sound of her voice the girl on the lounge started up again and looked at her. She was flushed and feverish, but still she shivered, and kept drawing herself together for warmth. "I want some one to carry a  message for me," she whispered. Will you?"  Addie rose instantly, and all three dressmakers dropped their  work and looked round.  "I want a doctor," continued the girl, in a suppressed tone; -                 .              .   MOURNERS.            89 "a good doctor; the best that can be found, and I will be so thank- ful to you if you wil bring me one." "She's sick-real sick," whispered one of 'the younger dress- makers to the other.  "Yes, she is," assented the other, "and her ma should be woke up and told about it." "Miss Alice," sail the eldest woman, "may I go and speak to your ma about having Dr. Rodgers sent for? I know he can give you something that -will help you right away." "' No, no, not him ; I don't wa/t him," cried the poor girl, .dis- tractedly. He wouldn't help Mr, for he did all-he could, and it  was no use; but there must be some one with more skill. Some- thing can be done-.it must be done. Oh, they're all so calm and submissive. They'll drive me mad. She would have given her life to save any one of them, and they won't try to do any thing ,for her." f"Oh, Miss Alice," said the good woman, kindly, "you must try to think it was God's will took her away, and bring yourself to submit." "Submit!" shrieked the poor creature, madly. "Submit! What does it matter abou me? It's her I want to save. She said her life was perfect; that she stood in the sunshine, and could see no cloud. It never was meant that she should die. Heaven could not be so cruel. In only three days, too! It cannot be-it can- ndt be!"                    . J A handsome wo an, perfectly dressed, and very elegant in style and manner, now o ened the door and looked in with a sweet, im- passive face. - "Is Alice ill?" she asked, gently. The woman who lad spoken rose and stepped forward. "She's nervous and excited, Mrs. Whurton," she answered, in a whisper, "and may have a fever, if a physician doesn't do some- thing to-prevent it." "Do you really think so, Miss Bond?" returned the lady, with the same sweet cormposure; " then we'll have Dr. Rodgers come up at once and see her. Alice, my dear, does your head ache?" -     930    TEN YEARS OF A LIFETITME  she continued, approaching the sofa, where her daughlter had thrown herself once more. She bent slowly forward, as one who would do nothing hastily or ungracefully, and who hiad even ideclined to grow old or faded through the wear and tear of emotion. Time would fly relentlessly, but every other ill could be baffled by composure, and in serenle beauty and wonderful preservation she stood now at fresh, unwrinkled fifty, a pillar of proof in her own system. Ifer less happy daughter answered her only with a short, hard, convulsive gasp, and she leant a little neayer, saying still more sweetly- "Have a little. camphor-water, dear, and come and lie down in my quiet room, where the shutters are dark; it will cool your head and take that unpleasant inflammation out of your eyes.? Still no reply from the obdurate weeper, anldthe tender mother was just about to touclr her softly with her pretty white hands, that had preserved their prettiness and whiteness by never more than touching any thing in this world, when even the beautiful composure of her face and manner was startled and almost out- raged; foI, without a word or sign of preparation, the self-willed and persistent Alice rolled in strong convulsions at her feet.  Every woman in the room sprang to the furthest end of it in alarm, and Mrs. Wharton, white and trembling, shielded her face with her hands, being constitutionally opposed to unpleasant sights. Addie had neither jumped aside nor uttered a word of surprise or dismay, but falling on her knees beside the figure on the floor, she lifted the head from the strained and unnatural position in which it had fallen, and called out for water. "And bring that camphor the lady spoke of quick," she screamed. "Unfasten her dress while I hold her; don't let her head drop-the blood'ssettling therealeady. Give me a spoon. She can't drink it out o a glass. There, that will do' if she can only swallow it."   f A glance discovered for her that. Miss Bond would be her most reliable aid ; and while the rest ran frightened down-stairs she and the elder dressmaker, by the aid of water, camphor, and vale- rian, had brought their poor patient back to her natural quiet, A'   L-        MOURN-ERS.            91 although her consciousness was not completely restored, when Janlecame runling in, accompanied by Dr. Rodgers. Th Tl-h ysician was a kind, though decided-looking man; not at all yoimg, though quick and elastic in every movement. lWhatl have you been doing?" le said, addressing. Addie, whilst he held Miss Alice's hand in his own, and seemed to think. In a few wrords Addie answered, without hesitation, that she had seen people taken so before, and had used such of the remedies as were at hand as she had seen then applied. "Very well," he answered; " very well, very well," and turned to Miss Bond. "Just take her feet, will you, and we'll place her more comfortably on this couclh.?   Doctor," said Jane, anxiously, " is there any thing to be appre- hended? Is it any thing more than excitement and want of self- control?" It is not serious, I hope," said the doctor, pointedly discarding her definition of the case. "It is so far merciful as to produce partial unconsciousness, and I fancy that must be a great relief compared to the feeling that preceded it. "Olh!" sighed ,Miss Jane, "I'm so glad! a complication of sor- row needs more than human strength to overcome, and I am just now beginning to see my way towards enduring our present trouble." With this she be koned to Addie, who reluctantly left her place at the head of the sofa, and, lookinghack sadly at the white face th  there that seemed settling into iharble composure, now that the storm of feeling was for a moment lulled, wiped away a few big tears that suddenly rose in her eyes. "You will give this note tom Miss Le Roy; it explains my rea- sons for detaining you, and tell her my decision about the white crape is irrevocable. She can send you up with the first lat as soon as completed ; for I should like them all perfect, with no tiresome alterations, after the funeral is over." Addie, seeing no possibility of an excuse to delay, though her heart lingered with the poor mourner whose grief had been too heavy to be borne, was fain to curtsy and retire.  .* \ 4      92       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. As she descended the stairs she saw Mrs. Whar'ton lying at rest in a great easy-chair, in the shady and spacious front chamber on the second floor, whilst an assiduous maid fanned and bathed' her brow with rose-water. She looked so placid and beautiful as she lay there in repose, the pale chestnut of her soft, glossy hair, and the pure, pearly whiteness of her complexion, in relief against the deep crimson of the cushions, that Addie came slowly on, acc)mmodatingu her steps to the desire she felt for gazing. A delicate white head- dress, that was soft and lovely as a snow-wreath, surrounded her bands of untarnished hair; and her sweet pink lips were partly unclosed, showing the shining of little white teeth that were per- fect as a baby's.                  ' "It can't be the flutter of her heart she's lying there to get over; for it's the heart that wears people out, and she's not worn at all," thought Addie to herself, as she passed out of sight of the picture. In the lower hall, Miss Nettie was saying good-by to Colonel Leonard, the sorrowful gentleman whom Addhe had followed into the house. "You will forgive my boring you so 1ong a time," he was say- ing, sadly, as she went by; "but you are a  miser's gold to me now, and must forgive my selfishness in glopting over the comfort you can give me." Miss Nette was smiling, of course, mournfully, in return; and Addie mad up her mind that it must have been easier to condole with him than she had supposed, when she went so reluctantly and pettishly to the task.   ,           l ft  s   ADDIE S SYMPATHY.           93 CHAPTER IX. ADDIE S SYMPATHY, "WELL, did you stay to wake the corpse?"7 was Miss Tod's greeting, as Addlie entered the workroom, at dusk, and found all the place lighted and business proceeding with uninterrupted velocity. "It's well I had all the folds to stitch, you young sorrow, or I should take a year's growth out of you for staying," said Miss Debby, warningly. "Here's Kitty Donahue been driven wild, with no one to help her in the kitchen, and you off gallivanting round the streets, staring in at every shop-window, I suppose." - "Then you suppose wrong," said Addie, shortly ; "and there's your note." "And this is my note, is it?" said Miss Debby, eyeing her, half amused and half angry ; "and you think it's best to put a. bold face (  on it, after being away long enough to drive any but a set of Jobs, as we are, crazy." "I'm not putting a bold face on, Miss Debby," said Addie, de- cidedly-" not a bit of it ; but I think it would be so much better to see if I'm wrong first, and blame me afterwards, rather than fly at me before you know the reason why." 6 Phew!" whistled Miss ToA, " we're not going to take things as we have done; and there's a fnew kink in the little pig's tail. Well, Addie dear, before your dignity comes on you so strong that a body will be afraid to ask you to do any thing for them, will you please to bring me the length of a flea's halter of black silk cord out of the box there?" "Oh, Miss Tod," said Addie, mournfully, as she placed the re- quired amount of trimming on the milliner's knee, "how sad it must be to' die young, and make every one wretched you leave behind!" "Is every one wretched up in Worth-street? It's more than I expected if they are. I've always found, that people who were  .                  ,     "      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. hard to please about little things, and could be made perfectly crazy if you put a wrong shade of ribbon or a wrong flower in their bonnets, were splendid ones to wrestle with big troubles and get the better of them.  Mrs. Wharton herself, though she's lovely as a saint to look at, can get into a tearing rage if things don't suit her." "Well," said Miss Debby, "here's a note that should go in the British Museum as a model of feeling and fashion combined. They won't stand the black crape, Margaret, as I told you; and they say they'll wear heavy veils and deep bombazine mantles. It's not out of disrespect to the darling cousin, I must remember, who, were she living, would be the last of human creatures to suggest such a horrid sacrifice. Here's a list of authorities for the white loops they propose to have, that would satisfy any one, I'm sure; so get the white crape, and let us throw a gleam of bright- ness into this shadow of grief." "Am I to go down to Kitty and help about tea?" asked Addie, looking so pale and dejected, as she waited, that Miss Debby's sense of humor and kind-heartedness divided the day, and she laughed till tears stood in her eyes. "Poor little goose!" she said, wiping away the moisture from her cheeks; "it's wrong to put you in the way of such things, since you take them so to heart. Cheer up, push! it's only skin-deep the trouble you saw, and will soon be over.; You'll see them all here before Christmas, bespeaking new things, as gay as larks." "No, no, Miss Debby, you don't know-you weren't there; the /   rest are queer and hard in their way, but the pretty one-Miss Alice they called her-she felt the real heart-grief; for it's nearly killing her. Oh! if you had seen her struggling under it, as if it were a great cruel wave that was creeping up over her heart, to crush and overwhelm it, you would have pitied her, as I did. She gave a cry, and fell down in spasms; and I ran and lifted up her head--such a pretty head, with soft, shining hair-and I helped her all I could, till the doctor came and said it was all right.' "You helped her!" cried Miss Debby, opening her eyes in   AIDDIE'S SFIPAATHY.         9 astonishment. "What do you know about spasms?  You ought to have got out of the way at once." "No," said Addie, reflectively; "I think I did right to stay. You see, Miss Debby, I used to notice people taken that way at the ' House' To be sure it wasn't grief with them, but it seemed just the same; and I thought I would do what I had. seen done, as they all ran off frightened, except Miss Bond." "Except Miss Bond!" repeated Miss Debby, still more aston- ished. "Lord bless us! but the young one has their names as pat as if she belonged to the establishment. We sent her up to see about the trimming, and she turns out to be intimately con- nected with the family's afflictions." Miss Tod, who had shared her employer's surprise, here re- covered herself to say-            . "Well, it wouldn't be Addie if she didn't light on queer scenes ; but, as it will be nine o'clock before we get ready to go home, it would only be Christian and decent-like in her to lend Kitty a hand about tea, or we'll all be starved entirely." Thus reminded, Miss Debby, who was considered by the girls as the most liberal member of the firm, took out her purse, and, in whispered conference, decided on certain viands as suitable and convenient to such an occasion. It was after she had been out to a neighboring grocer's and obtained them' that Addie returned to her usual sphere in the  kitchen, and after an elaborate tucking up of cuffs and tying on of the apron, offered her services to the silent and apparently nnamiable Kitty. Och, I'm bothered," said Kitty, in reply to the proposal of aid. "I'm fairly bothered to death; so don't, be standing in my way and talking nonsense." "It's not nonsense, Kitty," Addie urged, in an injured ton "if you're bothered, there's the more need of my helping you. Doi't be cross, and just see how bright I'll be about fixing things. Here's dried sausage and cheese, .and here's a paper of sweet crackers and one of soda-biscuit. I'll put them all in plates, and cut the cheese and sausage while you get the tea ready." U  *elL1S IL uc ut     96       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. ( I'm not saying any thing agin you, Addie," admitted Kitty, in a milder tone; " whin I say I'm bothered, it's nothing you can help, or you'd do it fast enough, I know." "uWell, then, if it's the work up-stairs, and the trouble of hav- ing to get the girls something to eat, no one can be blamed for' that either, Kitty." "Sure I'm blaming no one," cried Kitty, with renewed impa- tience; "I'm glad of the work, being that it'll brlng in money when money's needed; and as for the girls, they'll jist take what they'll get, and that's all about it." After this unsatisfactory rejoinder, Addie paused illn her efforts to sharpen an edgeless knife oh the stone hearth, and regarded her companion with severe interest. "Now, Kitty," she said, solemnly, after a long. silence and a long-drawn breath, "I may as well tell you what I think as keep it in my mind against you. . I think you're given to fretfulness and ill-temper at times, and it's really mean of youI to give way when you have such a' good, noble heart in the end. It puts me out, too, and I have no one to talk to but you, you!know, Kitty, when I'm down here, and I can't talk when you snap me off-can I?" Kitty stopped suddenly in the midst of filling the I palm of her hand with tea from au old black canister with a broken lid, and looking at her youthful mentor for a moment, broke out into a short but hearty laugh. Almost instantly she checked it, with a sigh, and said, kindly-            [ "Faith, Addie, you're a divarsion to any one wid yer airs. Well, dear, I'm not mad and I'm not faling cross, aither, but ye see I've a little stinging kind ov worry on my mind, and it kapes me unaisy. Where were ye so long this Afternoon?"! "Oh, I want to tell you, Kitty, and it'll do you good to think of other people's grief, whatever your trouble may be," said Addie, eagerly, and she related to her all about the death of MAiss Eleanor Wharton and the sorrow of her cousin. "Sure I heard it before from the chambermaid that was here last evening; Mary Brady's her name, and she's cousin to the Doyles. Says she to me, 'IKitty,' says she, 'it's like a show to   ADDIE S SYMPATHY.           97 see the goings on up-stairs-one ov thim worrying about the dresses, and another jist mad bekase it puts off a trip they was thinking of making to France, and the other breaking out every little while at the rest for the want of faling.' It's -that one you mane, I suppose?" "Kitty," said Addie, impressively, "it would melt your heart too see her. Oh, Kitty, it is real, true, strong, killing grief she feels. Perhaps it may be her death, too." "Never fear," responded Kitty, shortly; "she'll live and get bravely over it."' "That's unfeeling," murmured the girl, warningly. "No, darling, I'm speaking of what I know and have seen, and I'm a year or two older nor you, you'll confess. Sure I know thim that has seen ivery hope in life cut off suddint, laving. thim nothing but a dry, withered stalk, as ye may say, widout a lafe or a flower, instead of every thing blooming and fragrant, and they rose up from under the blow, and lived and struggled widoat pace or hope, or any thing to look forra'd to, except the blissing of death in God's own good time." "Yes," assented Addie, slowly, "I can believe that, for-for I know it, too; but-but, Kitty; you are not so wretched-dear Kitty, are you?" Kitty clapped tlihe lid on the teapot suddenly, and turned around so as to face Addie's sympathetic gaze; the character of her ex- pression changed entirely, and a dawn of merriment woke in her gray eyes. "I'm not the kind that meets wid such blows, Addie," she said, laughing; "sure ye're not as sharp as I tuck ye for if ye'd sus- pect me ov any romance. There's comfort in every thing, and thim that has no beauty is kept from many a bitter blow. The one I'm thinking ov was a lady, and the toast of the town she lived in for her beauty and her swateness." "Oh," said Addie, with a gasp of relief, "then it's only just a story that you remember ; but, Kitty, though you're not handsome altogether, you're very agreeable when you are not bothered; and, Kitty, do you know I shouldn't like to think that I was too plain , *      98       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. or ill-looking to suffer. I'd rather not escape in that Way. I sup. pose that's very silly-is it?" "Silly enough ; and here's the things waiting, and cut away up to sce if they're ready. I've a arrant to go to-night, so I nade to be in a hurry."   With much of her original asperity return-ed IKitty hustled Addie up-stairs, and following close on her heels with an old tray, began to serve tea to the assembled workroom out of every devisable kind of cup and mug- in the establishment, whilst Addie deftly followed in her wake with crackers and the rest of the refreshments, and waited on the girls, whose appetites proved themselves sharpened by labor, and caused Kitty to remark, as she drew her flaming shawl about her, previous to sallying out on her " arrant"-  "It's not much the ladies will make out ov the job, faith; sich aiting and drin king I niver saw; and it's thim should be glad to stop till midnight, afther sich a ploughman's male as they made ov it." Kitty's forebodings were not felt by Miss Noralh, evidently, for she seemed in better spirits-whilst the weary girls yawned and stitched their way through the heavy pile of folds and bands-than she had done for weeks past. "It's only once in a while," she said to them, encouragingly, " and the day after to-morrow will be Sun- day, so that you can rest then."  "I think the eyes will drop out of my head with boring over this black stuff," returned Miss Tod, not at all imposed on by this view of the matter. "If I ever have a place of my own, I'll have hands for black work that are able to buy glass eyes when their own wear out--none of us are." :liss N  orah laughed-a gentle, faint little laugh. "Oh dear! it's not so bad as that, I know," she said; "and it's so long since we made black before, and not as if we were accustomed to it. Let me see, there have been no mourning bonnets since the Martins, and that was in May, you know." Well," said Miss Debby, decidedly, "these have to be done, and so it's better to do them than talk about them. There was a gentleman here, Norah, to look at the rooms." "When?" cried Miss Norah, eagerly; so eagerly, indeed, that   ADDIE'S SYMPATHY.           99 Miss Tod leaned over, under pretence of pins, to Miss Jobson, and pinched her arm, whilst reaching her cushion. Unconscious of this comment on her " closendss," or " sharpness," where money Tatters were concerned, Miss Norah questioned her sister about the appli- cant, and hearing that he had been taken up through the apart- ments by Kitty, because Addie was out, and that he had been de- sired to call in the coming morning about terms, etc., evinced some perturbation. "It was only those Matthews girls looking at cheap hats," she said, in allusion to her own occupation; "they didn't order them, and Kitty is so unattractive to strangers. Oh, Debby! why didn't you go yourself, or ask Mary Jobson to oblige us by talking to him?" "Well, as for me, I was so busy with the crowns that I was fitting, that I didn't know he had been here till he had gone; and as for Kitty, I fancy she did as well as any one woul], for he said the rooms were charming, and that he'd see you without fail in the morning." Miss Norah grew more and more agreeable after this announce- ment, and as soon as the lights were turned down in the parlors, came into the workroom and lent a hand herself, a piece of energy and industry she had not achieved in years., "But what does she do with all the money?" said Addie to herself, as /she went up to bed that night, after observing her efforts to hasten and assist the completion of the mourning order. "Kitty knows-maybe she has to keep charge of it, and that's what makes her so crabbed at odd times." With which view of the case she retired, being admonished by her-mistress to be up early and get through with her housework, so that her personal appearance might be improved by a clean apron, and the expected lodger be the more favorably impressed with the resources of the establishment in consequence.     100      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. CHAPTER X.  ADDIE S CONFIDENCES. , Miss NORAH really appeared to be most unaccountably anxious on the subject of the gentleman who had promised to call. She beckoned to Addie, as she passed the parlor door, every time she answered the bell, and enjoined on her the strictest politeness and civility of deportment in case it should be he, and on every fresh disappointment her spirits became more and more depressed. At last, as it wore on towards noon, Addie responded to a quick, im- perative ring, that turned out to be the summons of a dashing, handsome gentleman, little more than a youth, but manly and self- possessed in appearance. He was tall and muscularly built, though light and graceful in every movement, and there was- some- thing of pride, and more of spirit, in the flash of his eye, while around his mouth played an expression of sweet iyountg frankness of heart that was like a smile, and tempered the gleam. \   Being so fully instructed as to her duty, Addie commenced showing and commending the apartments, whither she had hurried him on his first allusion to lodgings, but he stopped her with a laugh- "I'm going to take them," he said, " and shall discover all their beauties for myself. Will I make terms with you, or is there a re- sponsible party that must be consulted?"   \ "Certainly," said Addie; "Miss Norah, you 'knOw-and I'll fetch her up while you take a rest.-  Instantly departing with this intent, she reappeared almost as instantly, followed by Miss Norah herself, who smiled and curtsied, and evidently impressed the new tenant with her native grace and tender fading beauty. Being keen in perception, it now struck Addie that no more fa- vorable time could be selected for a tHe-h-tte with her friend, Mr. Siebert, with whom she had not been ae to have a word for days, owing to the workroom hurry. She fit the bargain would be closed on the subject ofhe rooms, and Miss Norah would be too   ADDIE'S CONFIDENCES.         101 well pleased with the event to think of her absence from duty, or be very much displeased about it if she did. Tapping at the door, she waited a moment for an answering word of permission to enter; andt fingdin it did not come, she re- peated the sound. Even then there seemed to be no stir witlhin, and, remembering that she had not seen the painter on the stair- case that day, she knocked with increased force, thinling he might be ill, and unable to respond. 'A yawning voice said- "What is it? Who's there?" at length, and in no very gracious tone. But Addie joyfully replied, "Oh, you've only been sleep- ing. How nice, that you're not sick, as I was afraid. May I come in a moment?"   "To be sure," assented Mr. Siebert; and in she went, to find the painter getting up in his dressing-gown and, slippers, from the chintz-covered sofa, and yawning prodigiously as he did so. "Dull work, these day naps, Addie," le. confessed i "but I have been staying with a sick boy for a night or two, and you can't paint when your eyes won't stay open, ca1n you, puss?" Addie nodded, and: expressed in her face much solicitude, as she inquired if the boy were very sick, or if 1e were a friendless boy. "He was very ill; he's better now, and among good friends," said the painter, gravely. "But," he added, changing his tone to a pleasanter, more cheerful one, "I've been working for a patron of yours. Don't you remember the pretty lady that called you stupid:'in the hall below, the other day?" "Miss Farron I Yes; but she didn't mean that; she'would be apt to say any thing Wras stupid that she didn't take the trouble to think about at all. She's beautiful, but not altogether nice," said Addie. "Well, nice or- not, she desired me to paint a picture for her, and that without knowing who I was at all. You see, she looked at that very same little meadow scene you were so ungracious as to criticize, and asking the framer who did it, gave an order for a copy." "That was just as pleasant as an angel," cried Addie, with' enthusiasm. "I'nm so glad; for she has such grand, lovely rooms     102      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.. to hang pictures in, you can't think. Oh! are you going to carry it home? Do, pray, so that you can see where she'll have it hung up. It can't help looking splendid on such walls, and she'll put a gorgeous frame .round it, you may be sure." "You know all about the establishment, it seems." "I went there with a message for Miss Norah, and I waited for an answer. Her father, who is the most delightful gentleman that ever was born, I think-- . Of -course I could not like him better than you, but he has more--more-I don't nIow what to call it," said Addie, gathering her brows in the effort to think it out, and pausing nonplused for a word."y "tIe's an elegant gentleman; why should you compare him to a poor old dauber like me at all?" "Don't call yourself names, and put me out when I'm thinking, please," cried Addie, peremptorily. "There-that's it-it's style-- manner, you know; the ability to say things with an air, and to make his looks and movements speak too. You are just as agree- able, you know," she hastened to add, reassuringly; "but that's the difference between you." "You were saying you saw Chim.   Well, did he, With all that distinguished grace of his, notice you in the least?" "That's it," cried Addie, laughing; -'that's the' funny part. EVhy, he really asked what I thought of a queer-looking little fat man, who was so seriously comical that you laughed out the minute you caught his eye." ".Was he a guest, too?" "He was a picture, but not like yours, you know;,this was a real picture, just like people are; and he almost winked ;at me as I looked at him.,' "And what did Mr. Farron say?" "I don't think he said much, for I can't recall what it was; but he is one of those people who make you understand them by their smiles and glances. I think he is so very pleasant, that I am glad I  cannot see him often." "Why not?  I   think it must be delightful to see pleasant people."   ADDIE'S CONFIDENCES.          103 Y)hO, yes; but I should become discontented, I fear, to think I was not born among that kind of persons, into that kind of life, that onpens widrf a broad, lbright picture, full of life and glory.' There's no look forward in such a poor mean way as I am born to go." The painter had been gathering his brushes and colors, and laying them in order athout him. -ie now sat down and worked a little while, without speaking. Then he said- "You a1 riglht, Addie; any thing or anv place that makes one discontented or unhappy is to be avoided. A visit' tlat makes a useful, cheerful child talk like a worn-out heroine of a novel, had betternot be repeated'. "That's being sharp arind cutting, that is," cried Addie, laugh- ing; "and it wasn't a visit. I ran an errand, that was all. I never could be discontented, but I might like to be different. The sight of fine people and fine things fills me with such thoughts, and nothing more.  I kno w I have to do what I was born to do, and I mean to do it as well as I can; but I wish sometimes-thelre you're making that very, very blue sky that you can't see into, and I don't like--again,"2 Mr. Siebert laughed kindly and indulgently. "You are harder to please than Miss Farron, you see,"  he said. "It was this very same sky struck her fancy." "Isn't it odd?" said Addie, seriously. '"But her father and she knew notlhing about such things, I remember.2' "Now you, are so unamiable, that I ought not to show you this face I have here. It is only a sketch, but it pleases me better than any work of my own ever did.  It is the boy's face with whom I have been watching for these lights past." lie laid the bristle-board; on which the crayon sketch was taken, -out ssmoothly on the table bj the window, and fixed his eyes observantly on Addie, as she bent over it, all interest and atten- tio .  "Why, he's dead," she gasped in surprise, W ith a little tincture of pain. "How beautiful he was I Oh, such lovely, lovely eye- lids! But you -said he was better."     104  ,    TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. V"Well-entirely well--and never to know pain or suffering more." "O1, yes, I know now. I always try to think God gives people death like a bitter draught that cures, and they sleep to wake up qwell, and never to be ill again, in Heaven." The painter nodded.              "But did you do this?" she asked, a little incredulously; "it is so clear and true in every line. Look at the hair; it is damp and heavy, and the mouth is fixed, and so awfully still and silent." The painter drew it away from under her hands, and went with it to a. chest of drawers at the further end of the room. tHis portfolio lay there, and he was a long time fixing it in place. When he came back, Addie saw he had been struggling with some unusual feeling; his eyes were heavy and downcast, and his ten- der, childlike mouth was trembling with the effort he made to suppress it. Shle was instinctively conscious of pain in others, and ever anx- ious to avoid increasing it by questioning or curiosity. "There's a  new lodger," she remarked, in %a casual -tone, and then recalling what a  handsome young man he was, and how unconsciously she had been attracted by his. looks, went on to say ,that he was more elegant-looking than any of his predecessors, and altogether charming. "Miss Norah is so pleased about it," she continued, " that I thought she would not say any thing if I took a  minute or two to come in and see you; but there's some dusting to be done before he brings his trunks, and Kitty's going out agiain to-day, so I'll go now and do it." "I hope he's agreeable in his ways, puss, and don't take to whistling before daybreak, as that Italian did ;'nor have card'par- ties ending in rows, like the Englishman." '  "That was before I  came," said Addie. "When I first arrived there was a  Southerner, who was so-loud and fierce, that he did every thing with a crash and a bang. He used to come clattering down stairs, and tread on my fingers when I was rubbing the rods ; and he swore dreadfully, and talked like that parrot next door, without any pleasant under tones in his voice."    ADDIE'S CONFIDENCES.         105 "He was a coarse, bad man, with money," said the painter. "Men can be coarse and bad, and be quite endurable in poverty, but money makes them utterly unbearable." "But he was better than that silent, sneaking gentleman, that only stayed a month, while he gained a lawsuit here., He wound up and down the passage like a snake, and had bad, mean eyes."            \ "a Addie," said a voice, sharply, frkm the landing outside. "Yes, ma'am, I'm coming," she returned instantly, and witl another word to the painter, hurried away. It was a whispered request that she might see the boy's face some time again, for it had taken hold of her heart by its truth and beauty. "There, now, Addie," cried Miss Debby from the stairs, " you must. ive up bothering Mr. Siebert with your nonsense, and be within call always. I'm too busy to let things drop, and run after you when I want you." As this was quite as 'mild a reproof as she had dared to calcu- late on, when entering herself with visiting the painter, Addie mrerely nodded meekly, and answered, "Yes, ma'am,"' which pro- ceeding so mollified Miss Debb)y that she assumed a pleasanter and lower tone in directing her about some necessary errands connected with the advent of the new lodger. It was a pleasure to Addie to discover that not only her mis- tress's heart was lightened, owing to the circumstance of the rooms being advantageously rented, but that Kitty Donahue was almost gay in consequence herself. Perhaps the girl's not supping in the house that evening did somehing towards inducing this desirable state of feeling ; for Kitty was opposed to the appetite of the workroom on principle, and objected to all regaling at the household expense. The morning workl was almost finished, and Aliss Tod would, take home whatever was incomplete, for evening work for herself and family. The ladies had determined to go out to tea, and nothing remained for Kitty and Addie but a social, uninterrupted meal together, after the lamps were lighted and the hurry of the day over. . "And how nice it is!"Addie said; "I thought you had to go      106      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. oqt to-night, and it's so pleasant to haves you agreeable and good- natured, Kitty."  "I did think that I would have to go, but, you see, Miss Norah said she would attind to the arrint herself, seeing I was pretty well tired wid working all day." "I suppose you wouldn't wish to say where you were going,'^ suggested Addie, her eyebrows slightly raised, and no very san- guine expectation of receivingcr an answer visible on her face.  "It's no consarn of yours," retorted Kitty, sharply and deci- sively; don't you be turning meddlesome, or I'll give you the back ov me hand." Then, as if desirous of changing the subject, she remarked, in a different' tone, "What a gay young gintleman we are going to have in the house wid us I he's as ilegant; as'a picture to look at.'  " Do youl know his name?" asked Addie. "I hope it sounds well. Thdre never was a good name in these rooms since I came here. You know that loud man's name was Brufford, and then there was Mr. Small and Mr. Pidder.. Pshaw I why don't people have the giving of their own names, and make them suitable, and high sounding?" "Well, for mny part," returned Kitty, my own has done me all I've asked ov it, and it's the least of my thoughts about lit. What's your own last name, Addie? Sure I don't think I iver heard it,' "I don't know," said the girl, slowly; and she looked down, ,and colored painfully. "Ye don't know!" cried Kitty, incredulously. "Why, you're talking nonsense; iverybody knows their name- -there's no for- getting that, though a body may have nothing else besides it in all the world."  "I don't know my name," repeated Addie, again; "they- they called me something that I knew did not belong to me, and I wouldn't keep it. Oh, Kitty I H--I have no name!" To the dismay and astonishment of .her companidn, the poor girl here burst, out into a passion of tearless sobs, that were all the more distracting from their entirely unprecedented nature. Up to that moment, Kitty had never seen her visited by any emo- k       .   ADDIE'S CONFIDENCES.          107. tion of such a character. She had looked on her as a good, true child at heart, whimsical and changeable in mood, eccentric in thought and feeling, but cheerful and merry to the verge of folly. Totally at a loss for words of comfort or condolence, she 6ow sate staring at her blankly, whilst the hysterical gasps continued, and shook the fragile figure, that really needed all its active splighltli- ness to hide its almost fleshless proportions, and destroy the idea of delicacy her extreme thinness suggested. "Och, Addie dear!" murmured Kitty, at length, with unac-r countable tears gathering in her own eyes, 'u what needs ye be grieving for nothing? Sure you'll niver disgrace whatever ,name was yours by right; and maybe ye'll find it out some day, and get it. Don't cry, darling--don't, ye poor, little, wake thing ye- and I'll niver say another sharp word to ye. Sure, I take shame to meself when I get out of temper, for nothing at all, at ye ; but, dear, I'Pm sometimes put out wid things I can't spake about, and it makes me kind ov unaisy in my way. Sure, ye don't mind it- do ye, Addie?'  "Oh, Kitty H you are as good as gold, and I do love you, too; but it's not that I don't know what it is. There, it's over now, and I won't cry any more. You say you have\things you can't speak about; so you know what it means. My name is one of them, Kitty-so, it's over. Theie, I'll help you now; let me fix the tea. I want to hurry about a little-please, do let me." But Kitty Donahue's balm for sorrow, next to gruel, was rest. Poor'creature! she had never been able to enjoy it herself, and it seemed ,to her a charmed cure for every thing. She now strove to adclinister it perforce to her little friend, by thrusting her back ihto her chair when she attempted to rise. and assist her, and vow- ing that she should sit still and take "her aise whin she could get it, for it wasn't often that it came in the way ov thim that was born to labor and trouble.;" But Addie, with affected submission, gave in for a mOment, to jump up again and lay the cloth, and cut the bread and make toast for their solitary tea. which thus be- came quite a state-meal, with the unusual-addition of stewed fruit and cold meat from dinner.     108- , 108     TEJT YEARS OF A LIFETIME. CHAPTER XI. THE NEW   LODGER. THEI new lodger, whose advent had so apparently lightened Miss Norah's heart, was destined to occupy a very different posi- tion from his predecessors, and soon become a favlorite in the -family.                    ;  The day after-his arrival he ad sought Miss Debby, in her chair of state in the workroom; and begged to have the favor of a word or two in the hall.            l "It's my sister, sir--you mistake me; it was my sister that you saw yesterday," replied Miss Debby, hurriedly; rising and disen- gaging herself from labyrinths of ribbon and sewing-silk. "I o, if you please, it is you that I want to consult now," he returned, decidedly, but smilingly. "You see I'm lone of the greatest impositions you ever met with. Your sister; assured me that you never gave your lodgers their meals; and, is the rooms suited me exactly, I took them with the intent to impose on you to the extent of breakfast, at the very least, as soon as I was safely ensconced in the shelter of the household. Now, you will perceive that I have not the courage to carry, out my plan boldly, and attack that calm, sweet-faced sister of yours after that edict of hers. So I throw myself on your mercy, with the mild but de- termined assurance that it must be done." "What must be done, sir?' asked Miss Debby, .with a puzzled smile.  "Breakfast," briefly responded the gentleman. "  Oh, you mean that we are to furnish you with that meal!" and Aliss Debby laughed outright. "Why, it would be your own destruction you would be seeking, sir. You'd waste away under our regimen, and be a shadow in a molth. To tell you the truth, which Norah would have done in much better terms had you con- suited her, it )is simply out of the question. We have no cook and no arrangements, to say nothing of the knowledge and 7   THE NEW   LODGER.         109 taste necessaryeto, serve meals to persons accustomed to fine living." "I beg your pardon, for it seems rude, but is merely in pursu- ance of my determination, you know. Do you not eat yourselves?" Miss Debby altered her tone and looked serious. "I should tell you, sir, that we are obliged tfcarry on a business that gives us no time for the cultivation of fanis or delicate ap- petites. My sister and I are forced to be content to snatch at mouthful when or how we can, and are far too negligent of com- fort from necessity." "I shall be content to share the snatched mouthfuls, and pledge' myself to bB the least troublesome and most contented of men," urged the imperturbable lodger. "You must know, Miss Le Roy, that I am a save to my pasion for domestic life, and though the same unpitying, circumstances that produce yo ur snatched meals doom me to be a, wanderer half my time, still, when I have an op- portunity, I instantly set up a little home-like altar in my Arab life ; and in that altar, now to be established, I beg that my break- fast may be served in whatever manner or style--the homelier the better-suits your convenience." -liss Debby paused irresolute, and tried to think of the dishes and recall Kitty's abilities in connection with eggs and toast. Taking advantage of her indecision, he hastened to offer a tete- a-tete breakfast-service, with a variety of little things necessary to ; the occasion, and to argue convincingly that it was settled and no more need be said. "But," began Miss Debby again, "I really can't see how it is to be ianaged ; and if you onljy saw Kitty you would have said so too." 'I have seen Kittv,, replied the unabashed lodger, " and the feeling Kitty's appearance inspired was most reassuring.. I feel convinced that any thing Kitty should turn her attention to must necessarily be a success.  She is one of those little, quick, bright creatures that are equal to whatever they undertake." "Little, quick, bright?" repeated Miss Debby. "Oh, I see. You mean Addie ; and, by the by, if any thing can be done it mu4s     "O      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.    ; be she who does it." With that she ran to the head of the stair. case, and calling down, "Addie, come here a moment," returned, to be almost instantly joined by that young person, wry much ou  of breath, and enshrouded in the great coarse apron, pretty well., bcspotted with soapsuds. "Ah, yes, to be sure," assented the gentleman; it was upon the dexterity and accomplishments of this youong lady that I founded my hopes of coffee and toast. You can hake both, I know,"' he insinuated iersuasively. Addie nodded, but looked greatly amazed from one to the other. "Now, Addie," said Miss Debby, impressively anfd with due deliberation, " this gentleman says that he has made up his mind to breakfast here : you know how much or how little Ichance there is of his being able to realize his intention, and so I appeal to you.                      I Addie pondered. "There's a-a sort of arrangement of dishes in my room-a coffee urn, and all that,' suggested the lodger. "Yes, sir," replied Addie, brightening, "I saw it, and I'll be able to do the rest, if-mind, you are to remember the if-you don't find fault with a failure or two in the beginning." "You're a perfect gem," laughed the gentleman, with hilarious satisfaction. "Why, there never was any thing better arranged. To-morrow--at eight, shall I say?-will make the first!failure ; and if it should be all right, what a delightful surprise it will be!" Then the lodger put on his hat and gloves, and nodded, with good-humored kindness, to Addie, and bowed politely to Miss Debby, as he went away. "I dare say I've done a pretty piece of business in consenting to this nonsensical breakfasting,' acknowledged Miss Debby, biting her lips in a rather perplexed way; "but if it pays any thing, Addie, you shall have a chance to profit by it. My sister and I want td give you a quarter or two at school, butit's a tough job to manage whdse there's so much to be done with so little." ' Oh, Miss!" cried Addie, breaking dut enthusiastically, and bringing her rough apron into play about her tearful eyes, "I'm   THE NEW   LODGER. not worth what you do for me already, and you are just too good and too kind." "Well, finish whatever it is that you put on that unearthly wrapping for, and take it off as soon as yO'can," advised :Miss Debby, in allusion to the apron, and w6nt back to the workroom and the mazes of ribbon andslk'. Addie went down to her kitchen-work'with renewed energy and importance, for, as she clearly realized, an entirely new branch of the Domestic economy was, given over to her supervision; and whetlqer to risk Kitty's objections by taking her into confidence on the subject, or allow her to discover her in full tide of prepara- tion, was the doubt that pursed up her lips and gave, her little face its absurdly mysterious expression that attracted Kitty's wary eye. "Are you going to finish, up that mess of scouring you've laid out for yourself?" said Kitty, rather testily. "Mary Brady, the girl that lives wid the Whartons, is coming in to see uz, and lyok at the -splattered state you've got yourself and every thing else into. Clane up, do; and don't be disgracing uz wid slopping the place over, ye young pollutron!"' Addie needed no second injunction, and flew at the tins she had been rubbing with ashes to the extent of smearing every thing Nwithin reach. "Rench thim  off under the wather-spout," suggested Kitty, "rand niver mind the taste of black on the sides, sure they'll be jist as bad whin they're put over the fire agin." "Wait till I give 'em apother rub," cried Addie, breathlessly, pausing in her exertions; "I want 'em to shine like every thing, so as to show Mary Brady how nice we ar,e. Who told you she was coming, Kitty?" "Phil Rooney give me the whord as he was passing this morning; and he tould me that the young lady you saw in such trouble was nearly wild whin it came to the-funeral, and the whole family has took her away to a quiet country plaee, to see if they can't bring her round again." "Oh, Kitty 1 I'm so glad they were so kind-they seemed hard and feelingless. Here's Mary!"     "2      TEN YEARS OP' A LIFETIME. Somewhat mortified that her design of impressing Mary with their household neatness was frustrated by her urtimely arrival Addie swept awaythe dust and dirt of the scouring and hastily washed up the table, while Kitty, spoon in hand, advanced from the pot she was stirring to greet her. "And how are ye anyway, Mary Brady?" cried Kitty: "sure I haven't had time to spake a quiet word till ye sincet ye were here last Christmas.  What with one thing and another, a body is party well druv that lives in a larige family." "True for ye," responded Mary, " but now I'll have time to the fore; for beyant giving an eye to things, and doing up a turn of sewing for the mistress, I'm at my own disposal for a month to come.   How are ye, Midget?"-this to Addie.  "I'm very well, thank you, and I  want to hear about that sweet, pretty girl, Miss Alice Wharton, that was so very, very sad about her cousin's death. Oh! I do think there is something terrible in being so beloved and so mourned-it is almost better to have no one care for you, and know that no one's heart will break on your account when you die." "Troth, thin, there's plinty of that kind, Midget, ' said Mary Bradv, nodding he'i head and shutting her wide, round eyes, by way of emphasis. "Do ye know what I'm going to tell ye, now? Well, there's three of thim Whartons, and not one of thim but Miss Alice has a drop of human faling in her heart; and if it hadn't been for, the tears of that poor young thing, Miss Nell would lie in a   dry grave to-night. They gev out they was going off to the country for Miiss Alice's sake, but sure it's on their own account they're going, because the mourning don't jist suit thit, and they haven't the kind they want ready." "They niver had raal trouble to bow their hearts, or they wouldn't be so fierce about their looks, or so full of trying to set themselves off in becoming clothes; it's the likes of thim nades pulling down wid a  hard trial," opined Kitty. "Well, now, they say they' had some bother years ago," Mary returned; " it was the cook told me, and she's been ir the place fifteen years next summer. She said there was great doings   THE NEW  LODGER.         113 among thim whin she first come, on account of Miss Nell's eldest sister. She was a great beauty and a favorite wid thim all; and even the mistress was that way tuck up wid her that she jist let her do what she liked, and lade her by the nose, as ye may say." "Well, and what come tolher at all at all, that they should be in trouble on her account?" inquired Kitty. "iQb, thin, it's a long story, and I don't know more nor half of it aither; sure the cook tould me in a saycret, and mgyb5 it's be- traying it I am.": "Maybe so,' responded Kitty, dryly; "but as Addie nqr me don't know even the name of her, we won't be likely to spread the story.?" Mary Brady, taking this view of the question, laughed loud and long. "Since that's the case, ye'll not be much the better nor worse for hearing it, though, as I say I forget mostly liow it goes. The most that's clear to me is that there was a handsome Irish gentleman in the case, and you and me knows how grand they can i be, for we've seen thim in all their glory at home in the ould country'2               .  "And was it -^  Irish gentleman that bewitched her?" asked Kitty. "Well, by this and by that, it's well known there's no getting away from one of thim if they should fancy ye." "This one fancied her, thin, and so, she ran off wid him to New Orleans; but some way she found out there that her marriage was not a thrue one, seeing the wretch had another wife to the fore, and she packed up and away, no one know'd where; though I think the cook said theyhad traced her onst, and found she had a little child, and was working for her living like any poor sewing-girl." "Why, but they brought her home and tuck care of her, the crayture?1' inquired Kitty. "Sure I was doming to that; for you must know that the family are not overly given tq distressing themselves about aich other, and this case should be rerlimbered.  They sint for her and missed her, for she had a way of flitting from one place to another, as if she was pursued by aih evil jaynius, and although they give time and money, and whativer bit of heart they hat,- to it, they niver could     "4      TEN, YEARS OF A LIFETIMEE.  get the scent of her again. Cook says it was a great blow to thim, and that the ould lady was a'most out of her wits about it, till they hfeard at last and at long tlhat she was dead, and the poor child at rest wid her in the grave." "That mlust have been a cornfort to them, any way," suggested Kitty, "seeing that her throubles were over amid there was no more to fear." \ "Well, they say Mrs. Wharton tuck it mighty hard, for until she heard it she hlad some hope of getting her home agin; bnt, any way, she has niver given up to any great faling since, and the cook says she loved Miss Madge better nor all her children put together, though that's a quare thing to say." "Why didn't she love the sister, Miss Nelly?" asked Addie, standing open-mouthed before the narrator of this disjointed tale. "How should I know?" exclaimed Mary Brady; with dignity. I'm not accounting for the fancies of people. Maybe she give all the faling she had to the one. Maybe it was her way ; every one has their way, ye know; and, if it was not for the cook being a girl of her word, I wouldn't belave that Mrs. Wharton iver give her mind to grieve for any one, good or bad." "What happened to the man?") questioned Kitty, setting the teapot on the stove-top, to draw. "Did the law take hould of him, the ruffian, for desaving the poor thing, and bringing shame and throuble on thim all?" "N ot that iver I heard tell of. Thim is the kind that gets off aisvy, said Mary Brady. "Well, let us have a drop of tay," murmured Kitty, with a sigh; "and, Addie," she added, " run up and see if the ladies nade you, before you set down to vours."   DICK LAVARIDGE. CHAPTER XII. DICK LAVARlIDGE MR. JOHN TRACY, the new lodger, proved himself a gentleman of trustful nature, for he arose betimes next morning, and went singing about hiis room, preparing for breakfast as if it were a thingv assured. A gay and agreeable person he appeared, in all respects, with a clear, musical voice, that broke out now and again in snatches of song that seemed the outhursts of a joyous nature. Generous and free-spirited too, it would appear, since in his making terms for his breakfast, he had named a price much above the actual worth of the accommodation, and would suffer no deprecia- tion of the sum; for, as lie averred, he was gaining his point without regard to the convenience'of the fan . A little later than the time he had Amed next morning, a bumping sound was heard at the panels-of his door, and, throw- ing it open, Addie appeared, armed with the great old black tray from the kitchen table, disguised and covered by a clean white- cloth. With protestations of delight and satisfaction, the friendly lodger helped his young attendant by clearing a little table by the window, for the reception of her burden, and bestowed un- measured commendation- on her efforts in his behalf. "Nice brown twist, water-cresses, fresh butter, ham, and poached eggs," cried he, with a rising inflection of admiration. Coffee in prospective, and a covered dish bearing suspicious signs of toast; the morning paper, my dear girl, and the, world has nothing left for me to desire." "We don't take any paper, sir, but Mr. Siebefit has one, I think. Shall I ask for it, for you?" "Mr. Siebert-let me see. An artist, is he? Yes, to be sure, this is his place, though I never thought oft it before. I'll see him directly. No, you needn't trouble him about the paper; I'll  call on him by and by-thaulk;you."     "P;      TEN YEARS iOF A LIFETIME. Addie ran down for the coffee at this point, and brought it back in the little steaming urn, in a moment or two.! When finding that no further aid of hers was needed, she retired again to report her entire success to the amazed Kitty, upon whom the proceed- ings had broken wnith astounding force. "And he's a friend of Mr. Siebert's, too, Kitty-just thinkl" ' cried Addie, in conclusion. "His name is Mr. Tracy, and he is a friend of Mr. Siebert's.' "I He'll be no friend of yours, whoever he is, before a weel's over, for you'll poison him wid some mess or other when yer left to yer own devices." "Now   that's unkind, Kitty; and what's more, it isn't true," spoke up Addie, stoutly; "' you know I did every thin myself this morning, and I can do it just as well every other morning as this." There was so much determination expressed in the tiOght-shut mouth and gathered brows that confronted her, that Kitty felt herself unable to maintain her position before them, so, cou hing slilhtly as she thrust anothe sftick into the stove, and stirred a pan of gruel she was beating, she was fain to drop the subject. In another minute she had dropped the spoon too, and stood , upright with a paling face and startled eyes. The apparition of a  small man with a lame leg, standing in a crouching attitude at her side, occasioned her dismay, which pal- pably increased when he began speaking. "Faith, Kit, my woman," he said, in a queer, cracked voice, "ye look mighty cold on a  body, so ye do. Is the sightlof me so dis- tressinP to ye?" "What brought ye here at all at all?" cried Kitty, with an  effort at recovering her composure. "H I's sick, and he sint me," rejoined the man, briefly, with a jerk of his head in the direction of'.the back yard. "Ye come staling in so quiet-like, that the breath was tuck away from me wid surprise," Kitty continued, with assumed indif. ference; adding, "  Now just fly up and see if Miss Tod isn't ready for ye, Addie; maybe she's tired waiting so long..,   DICK LAVARIDGE.           117 "It's likely she would be waiting and not speak, isn't it?" cried Addie, laughing, and utterly ignoring Kitty's plan for getting rid of her presence. As she spoke, the- lame man turned suddenly with a sort of whirl on his strong leg, and a'peculiar dragging motion of his powerless one, and brought his strange puzzle of a countenance close to hers. He was of a short, stunted figure, with broad slouching shoulders, and loose, disproportioned limbs; but his face was not a bad one. There was even something redeeming in it when he dismissed a certain intentness of expression, a ]kind of tension that dwarfed his features out of their natural repose. His eyes, when idle, Were merry and frolicksome, and his mouth was full of a laughing humor that kept them company;-but his nose was broken and his face was marked with scars, that the earnestness of the gaze he fastened now on Addie brought into play beneath his gathering brows. "How are ye, my purty miss?" he said, mincingly; " excuse me want ov manners in not seeing ye before, but Kit and me is old friends, and when I get a look at her it makes me forget every thing else. We're very fond of aich other-ain't we, Kitty dear?" " Mind what ye come for, and let the child alone, Dick," cried Kitty, warningly. "She's   nothing to you, nor yours, thank God." Addie stepped back from the odd face that had kept advancing closer and closer, till it was almost touching her own. ' What do you mean?" she said, in a quiet tone, looking him steadily in the eyes. "If -you're an ill-natured man, and ,mean to frighten me, I am not in the least afraid. If you are just trying to be funny, I don't think you know how." The man drew back, but kept his eyes still upon her, and the questioning force of his gaze unrelaxed.  Then he seemed to draw the power of his eye inward, and scan his own remembrance, for his lids dropped a little under his heavy brows, and his lips tightened closely. Then he drew a long breath, and then he whistled. "Dick,", said Kitty, in a low tone, " what's the matter wid ye? Did ye come here to stare .the crayture out ov countenance?  If 7            +,     "8      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. ye have a message, say who it's for, and be done wild your tricks; I warn ye." "Ye're right, Kit, my woman, ye're right; but it's what ye always are, and so it's no wonder.   And what might be the name ov the young -miss that's so fearless and outspoken?" Addie turned away, and replaced the towel she was holding on the nail by the door, where it belonged. "I'm a fellow-servant of Kitty's," she said, over her shoulder, "and my name is Addie-that's all." "And it's a purty one, sure, and an aisy one to spake and spell," he returned, bowing absurdly low in thanks for the information. "But, some way, it's not the one I would have give, ye mesilf, if they had asked me to the christening." "Will ye tell what brought ye, Dick?" broke in Kitty; and her face was full of angryr trouble, that altered its whole char- acteo. "In good time, my   darlint, in good time," replied the un. moved visitor. "I'm intirely tuck up wid the young miss1 that's your fellow-sarvint, and would she be bashful about her age,- sich a  delicate question to a lady, that I'm jist astonished at me own impidence in asking it." "I'll be fifteen by and by," replied Addie, turning round once more, and steadily returning his look. "I'm beholden to ye," bow- ins again; and yer Kitty's fellow-sarvint, and yer name's Addie? Sure it's worth every thing to hear ye talk; and yer so clear and agreeable in all ye say, that I must come agin, jist to take a look at ye,'so I  must."  "Dick," cried Kitty, in suppressed wrath, "it's taking lave of yer senses ye are. Will ye spake out an' say yer arrant, or will ye drive me out ov me wits?", "Och, no!  niver fear. Kit, yer wits will stick to ye. There's not many goin' that has the head that would fit thim; and if they left ye, they'd be bothered intirely for another lodging." As he said this, he laughed good-humoredly, and in his careless, lerry mien, showed no ground-work for the anxious troubles his presence seemed to awake in Kitty's mind.   A DICK LAVARIDGE.           /19 Suddenly he seemed to bethink himself, and, turning about in the same odd way with a whirl and a drag, he faced the worried woman, and dropped. his voice to a whisper.  What he said did not reach Addie's ear, but Kitty's reply was audible. "Sick, is it? yes, sick may he be. If he felt and know'd the pain he gives daily and hourly he might call it being sick. It's small pity's due them that makes their own sickness." &It's not-pity he's asking," said the man; "but, Kit, if ye know whin yer well off, ye'll carry this bit of writing to the mis- tress, and not be too lonn coming lback wid the answer." Kitty caught a crumpled bit of paper from   his hand, and glanced towards Addie, and then back at the messenger, mean- while standing as if undecided whether to go or stay. Addie saw her perplexity- "I'm not afraid to be left here, if it's that you wait for, Kitty," said she coolly. The little fellow laughed again, merrily. "Ift's a brave fellow.- sarvint ye have, Kit," said he. "Will ye give this slip of paper to Miss Norab, Addie?" asked Kitty, in a smothered voice; "and tell her I'm waiting down here wid Dick Lavaridge.  Ye naden't come back wid her, but jist give a-turn to the rooms up-stairs, while I settle the kitchen." Addie nodded and departed, first glancing keenly at the man Kitty called Dick Lavaridge, whho'acknowledged  her look with one so whimsically mysterious that she was fain to break out laughing heartily, and so went up-stairs. Miss Norah was alone in the front parlor, with a little account. book in her hand, in which- she was rather noting thinags already written than making   new  entries. Her face wore its almost habitually worried look, and she raised her eyes with an absent expression, as Addie came towards her, holding the paper, which she took without apparently noticing its appearance. "Do you remember when it, was that you went up to the Far- rons about that trimming, Addie?" she asked, still holding the paper loosely between her fingers without reading it. "I'm making out bills, and I:want the date of that bonnet, if you can think of it."     120      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "I can find out, by asking Miss Tod, in a moment; but, please, Miss Norah, that note you took from me is to be answered, and Kitty said I was to tell you Dick Lavaridge was waiting below, and would you see him?" At the name, Aliss Norah's poor, pale face became a shade paler, and she gave a quick, frightened start, as she fumbled the paper over, trying nervously to open it. It held but a line or two of writing, evidently, but, before she had completed its .reading, -she was whiter ,ud older than Addie had ever seen her. She put up her trembling hand and shaded her forehead ; then she turned away, and walked over to the window, and stood look- ing out into the busy street, with its groups of hurrying figures flying by. Addie waited without speaking; for, although her restless mind keenly desired to pierce the secret of Kitty's visits and visitors, yet her heart was so compassionate and instinctively sympathetic with trouble, that she would gladly have taken tah burden of whatever care now blanched her mistress's face on her own young shoulders. Miss Norah came back from the window, with the same absent, troubled look increased tenfold, and began to move about uneasily, and murmur to herself, as if unconscious of Addie's presence. "Another week and I could have met it better ; now, I'm with- out a place to turn to. What will I do?-where will this end?" She took up the little book she had dropped, and looked over it eagerly, as if hoping to discover something in it suggestive of a way out of her distress. Slowly she read over, the names of her principal customers, pausing and shaking her head as each oc- curred, and biting her under-lip as she seemed to think. Nothing came of these pauses but increased perturbation, and at last, los- ing all hope, she gave up the task. "Dick Lavaridge, too," she said, aloud-" there's trouble in the sight of the creature, in spite of his careless way. It turns me, cold to think of him; and I wish I had never seen his face." As she spoke she crushed the paper she still held into a shape- less pellet in her nervous hands, and, gathering her brows in a   DICK LAVARIDGE.           121 resolute frown, she hurried out of the room, leaving Addie behind her still unnoticed. "Poor lady 1' said the girl to herself, following her with her pitying eyes; "the secret is trouble, it seems-and all secrets are, I think." In the workroom things were going gayly, and the contrast struck Addie as she entered. Miss Debby was laughing uproari- ously at a story of Miss Tod's telling; and the girls, mostly of that age when mirth is an instinct, joined her heartily for the mere love of the occupation, without regard to its merits. "Well, well!" cried .Miss Debby, wiping her eyes; "I don't know when I've had such a laugh. It will do me good for a week-it's always like a charm for my constitution; and if I couldn't get a full hearty roar once in a while I'd smother." "Look at young mischief's phiz!" suggested Mbiss Tod; it's long enough for Mickey Free's father at a funeral! What's wrong? Has any one turned their, back on a kitten you gave?" Addie cleared her face at this reminder, and said she came to see if there was any little job for her to do, as Kitty didn't need her just then. "Nothing just now, .Addie," returned Miss Debby; "but if you'll hurry through what you have to do, so as to be in time for Miss Tod when she goes home, I'd like you to go up with her and bring back some work." It had been a favorite idea with Addie to visit Miss Tod in her family seclusion, and see a certain lame sister of hers, who could cut paper' dolls of wondrous nicety, specimens of which, dis- played by the forewoman, had won her astonished admiration. She therefore hailed the prospect with a shrill whistle of delight, and professed herself ready at a moment's notice. "After I dust up Mr. Siebert, though; I had forgot him. I'll just run up and give him a few touches while Kitty finishes the kitchen. She says she won't trust me with the new gentleman's room-there's so many things to play with and look at there, that I'd forget to come down." "It will take you to be sharp if you come with me,"' said Miss 6     122      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. Tod; "for I'm going as soon as I have old Mrs I Terry's crown covered, and Miss Burton's face-trimming done." "I'm off," cried Addie, and shot up-stairs like a flash. CHJtAPTER      XIII. A CONFIDENTIAL VISIT. MR. SIEBneRT, in despair of being set to rights early in the day, had taken his domestic arrangements in his own hands, to the ex- tent of airing and partially brushing up his own apartment. Within the circle of the clearance thus made, he had taken up his position, with a drawing,-table and mterials, and having before him a cheap group of little plaster figures as a model, was sketch- ing away industriously when Addie entered. "For I have so much to do to-day that I couldn't afford to lounge my usual morning hour away," he explained; "and Mr. Farron has countenanced his daughter's taste by sending to me for a copy of this. I rather begin to doubt the justness of your criti- cisms, Addie."             '   ! "Oh yes, I know I must be wrong, because, you see, I'm so ignorant of the rules for every thing ; but I'm sorry that you had to do all this yourself: and whllat a dreadful mess you've made of it, trying to brush a carpet with a feather duster, and scattering the feathers everywhere!"          'I The artist looked up surprised- - "I expected commendation," he said, with affected replb)achful- ness. "I knew that you would enjoy brushing and fixing the new- comer's rooms, for I saw so many ornamental odds and ends being carried up with the luggrage. This was to save you time here, and you are ungrateful."  "Of course I am," assented Addie, heartily-" that's my way; but I'm glad to know it, so that I necdn't go on being disa- greeable. Oh. I have just thought of it-the new gentleman   A CONFIDENTIAL VISIT.          123 is named Mr. John Tracy, and he knows you. Isn't that pleas- ant?" The artist's kindly face grew thoughtful in an instant, and he sighed gently, as he answered-- "Yes, I know him-that is, I met him where he was doing a very kind and generous action. He is a noble-hearted person, cricket." "That I was sure of when I heard him laugh," returned Addie, decidedly ; " it has a full, clear tone, you know--nothing narrow or grating about it. But please tell me what he did that was good--that is, tell me if it isn't wrong for me to ask." Mr. Siebert glanced down at the end of his pencil, and seemed embarrassed. "It was a deed of charity-a generous, thoughltful thing, that I amn sorry I cannot just explain to you now, because one should know all these things, since the knowledge of good deeds makes us better and happier." "But there's something that malkes it a secret. I understand, for I begin to think the world is full of secrets, and they are all mournful ones." Then Addie, dismissing the theme, since it had already saddened her friend's pleasant face, told him that she was going with Miss Tod to her home presently, and that she was greatly pleased with the prospect of cultivating the friendship of her lame sister, who was "a scissors artist."  . "A scissors artist?" repeated the painter, smiling. 'Yes," persisted Addie, merrily, "that's the proper name, I'm sure; and I'll bring you a specimen of her cutting, for I know you are too good to be jealous of a different kind of talent from your own." A knock at the painter's door interrupted her double occupation of dusting and chatting, and, with her great parasol of a feather brush spreading over her head, she answered the summons, aind glanced out, with her full, black eyes, from under its straggling plumes, at the stranger. A quick flush suffused her cheek at the first glance, and then she bIeamed with pleasure. ,     124      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "Oh, it's Mr. Farron," she said, and again a bright scarlet blush burned over her face, as she dropped a curtsey, and slipped out of the door behind him as he entered. "So that's my young original, is it?" asked Mr. Farron, glan- cing after her. "She said that she belonged to the milliners, now that I remember." "That's Addie, sir,' answered Mr. Siebert, gravely; "a good, innocent girl, who has had few opportunities in life, and is yet pos- sessed of an eager taste for improvement that makes her a little marked in manner."; "A good girl, is she? Yes, I was sure of that; there's nothing about her to suggest any thing else, I'm sure." "What you see in her that is abrupt and inquisitive is only the untrained activity of her mind; her heart is as true and noble in its own unguided warmth as human heart can be." "You seem interested in the girl," said Mr. Farron, with a good-humored smile; " may I ask what position she holds here?" "She would be the drudge of a harsher househlold," said the artist; "but her mistresses are kindly women, who, iif they cannot really do her justice, will never oppress or ill-treat her." "OhI she is wdependent, then, not a relative of theirs?" "She is a girl they took out of the almshouse, without any knowledge of her belongings, and have done something towards civilizing, though not as much as they would, if their abilities equalled their wishes."            l "The almshouse!"  repeated the visitor, in wonder. "She doesn't look like any thing I ever saw there." ; "She isn't a born pauper, if that is what you nmean," said the artist, smiling; "I think she knows something of her own life that nobody else is aware of, and the knowledge gives her a certain dignity, if you can understand my meaning, sir." "I can understand, very readily, that the little creature finds a kind and valuable friend in you, and that your sympathy does you infinite credit, Mr. Siebert." Thus far Mr. Farron spoke with hearty feeling, and held out his hand, as one who would boe honored to have it taken in the spirit it was offered. Then change   A CONFIDENTIAL VISIT.         125 in(r to a more business-like manner, he asked: "Did lmy manl kel. my meaning clear on the subject of the figures? I wanted that particular grouping copied which represents Bacchus kneelincg- Ah, I see! you have my idea exactly." aMr. Siebert held up the etching to the light to receive his pa- tron's comments, and that gentleman, without regarding it very closely, went on to say that his daughter was pleased with a little water-view he had painted, and that he had found the drawing very correct, and so hoped the artist would be ableto finish a set of pictures of the kind he had ordered. "Did Mr. Siebert know a Mr. John Tracy?" he asked, sud- denly. "Why, yes; that is, I have met with him lately, but would scarcely dare to boast an acquaintance." "A fine young gentleman," the other observed, still glancing at the drawing he held. "I have reason to believe so," assented the artist, earnestly. Mr. Farron shifted his position so as to throw another light. on a little water-colored picture he had taken up, and said, with an ap pearance of intense interest in the subject- "I have known something of his character, which I greatly re- spect; but personally, very little of him. Is he staying itn the city?" "He is living here in this house," answered the artist, " so my little friend, Addie, tells me, but I have not seen him; in fact, he is but just arrived." At this intelligence iMr. Farron evinced great surprise. "I had thought his nncle and he were in the South together!") he said. "They are not together at all, 1 believe," said the artist; and then he stopped, as having already said more than he intended. "I know Mr. lRichard Tracy," said Mr. Farron, coldly; "so nothing relative to his chlanges of plans would surprise me." "' I do not know Mr. tRichard Tracy," said Mr. Siebert, quietly, "and so cannot say any thng about h.", Mr. Farron walked across the room and stood beside the wil- dow, looking down into the patch of dull, damp yard below; his survey of the premises did not appear to be satisfactory in its re- :,               ,'     126      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. sults, for he stood biting his lips, and looking embarrassed and dis- tressed, until suddenly he broke out- "There's no use in my assuming a false position with you, Mr. Siebert, so I'll at once confess that my anxiety to know something of Mr. John Tracy through you, was the principals cause of my visit to-day."  Here he paused abruptly, and looked frankly at the artist, as if inviting an expression of opinion. Mr. Siebert was silent a moment, and then said: 'As all that I can say of him is infinitely to his credit, it scarcely matters what your motive is, there can be nothing wrong in my telling it to you2. "I assure you, on my honor, it is in the sincerest regard for him that I speak at all," interposed Mr. Farron.  i "A poor woman, of whom he had once known something, lay ailing for months, entirely dependent on the wages of her little son, an errand-boy in a paint store The little fellow was injured by an accident, and carried to a hospital, from which he sent to me to take the painful tidings to his mother. I went to dim, and hear- ing all he had to say, became his messenger. In the poor woman I recognized a dear friend, whom I had lost sight of for years. I found Mr. John Tracy with her too; he had heard her story from some one who knew her trouble, and had already done much to show the kindness of his generous nature, and his knowledge of the needs of poverty."  "A noble fellow, as I always thought him," murmured Mr. ]Farron. "Meeting him in this way, I have admired him, without feeling the right to establish an intimacy," proceeded the artist. "So you will understand me, when I beg that you will not look on me as representing myself in the light of an acquaintance." "I will explain my motives, and justify your confidence by con- fessing that five and twenty years ago, when I was but a lad, I would have given all the years that have come and gone since then to have claimed his mother as my wife. Richard Tracy was my bosom friend and confidant, after the manner of our years, and he became a Judas, and betrayed me to his elder brother, who won   A CONFIDENTIAL VISIT.         127 the day against me. It is like digging among dry bones, to resur- rect those bygones ; they are shadows now, but they seemed terri- bly real once." The glow of youth flushed the face of the middle- aged gentleman for a moment, tlhen, dying out, left it paler than ,usual. With something of an added gathering of his brows, he ewent on: "I have never seen the man since, except by unavoidable chance, and I rnver mean to; but my interest in the youth is the memory of what I once cherished for his mother. My daughter and he met each other on some country trip a ear ago, and have some sort of an acquaintance that I cannot rightly understand,o since they are never together, and John Tracy avoids me as if I were his evil genius.", The painter listened with respectful attention, but offered no remark, when his visitor paused here, and took a turn or two up and down the room, as if in irresolution or perplexity. i You see," he continued, "' it is a strange business, and I find myself at a disadvantage, coming to a gentleman in the way of his profeS- sion, and compulsorily thrusting my confidence upon him. I have looked about for some person with whom Mr. John Tracy had some connection, to endeavor to discover something of his peculiar position towards me and mine, through that person's kind offices, but, until I heard incidentally that you and he had been englaged in some mutual interest together, have entirely failed." Mr. Siebert looked up at his companion for the first time, and the musing, preoccupied expression of his face changed toone of cordial sympathy. "I wish I were able to return the honor you have shown me in trusting me with this conversation, by telling you all you wish Ito know. I can only say that I understand your motives and admire your frankness, whilst I respect your trust." Mr. Farron offered his hand, which the other accepted ini a quiet way, not without a certain gentle dignity. "And now about these sketches, my dear sir," said the former, returning to his natural pleasant [graciousness of manner. "Ybu will uinlderstand that you are to take your own time in their coh- pletion, and not let them interfere with regular engagements. ,I . ...     128      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. Your models are laboriously correct, and if you contrive to throw a touch of freedom or a bold line or two in here and there, at your leisure, they will be the better for the keeping." "I beg your pardon," said a clear, pleasant voice at the door. "I knocliked, but found you so busy that I was obliged to announce myself to gain admittance.', The painter turned about quickly, and stepped forward in a slightly embarrassed manner. The same odd, pinkish flush that had colored Mr. Farron's face glowed there again, and Mr. John Tracy started back a pace and changed countenance, as he dis- covered who the painter's companion was. He stood an- instant irresolute, and stepped towards the door again. "Oh, pray excuse me," he said, in a constrained tone, "I did, not know you were engaged.  I can come in again when you are at leisure."  So saying, and looking somewhat disconcerted and confused, he bowed stiffly towards Mr. Farron, and with an apolo- getic glance at Mr. Siebert, hurried out, closing the door after him.  The painter had made no effort to detail him, and now he made no comment on his departure. "It is always just so," said Mr. Farron, in an annoyed tone; "I have met him again and again, and always under the same circumstances." "And yet your daughter is his friend, you say," suggested the other. "Yes-that is, I  suppose so; she is not frank about such things; young ladies are not generally, I believe. BLt I have detained you long enough already, and I need not mention that what I have said is confidential, I am sure." Mr. Siebert bowed in reply, and Mr. Farron, again offering his hand, took his leave.   TEA AT TOD'S.           129 CHAPTERt XIV. TEA AT TOD S. '/ Miss TO-D'S unpretending family mansion was the last house in a small court in that parit of the city known to the centrally located as "away up-town."  The position was at least retired and select, being shut off from the maih street by a grocery and general provision-store, which stood directly in front of it, leaving only a small alley by -way of approach at its side. The houses, six in number, stood facing each other on opposite sides of the little hydrant placed against a brick wall at the upper end ; and the same appearance of tidy and contented  poverty perviaded each. A spirit of social community characterized the inhabitants, who, drawing the water with which their wooden kitchen-buckets were constantly being replenished from the same Hydrant, thereat exchanged news and opinions on all points, and kept up a friendly intercourse on the subject of a mutual clothes-line, and arranged washing-days to suit each other's convenience. The Tod family, in right of its eldest daughter's employment as forewoman in a fashion- atle millinery, possessed considerable importance in the estimation of the courtiers, who conceded all points of taste and etiquette to their superior knowledge of life in consequence. It consisted of a widow and her three children-to. wit: Margaret, the milliner; Jenny, the poor cripple; and Bob, a nondescript, the only male branch of the house, and the occasion of much care and distress of mind to the establishment, on account of his reckless desire to expose himself to instant destruction on all possible occasions. tIis energetic elder sister had secured him, thus far in his career, a half-dozen different employments, from all of which he had retired Maimed or wounded on sick-leave, and filled the perturbed souls of his relatives with such fear as to his ultimate fate if he con- tinued, as to make a change to another sihere a necessary relief to their feelings. At present he was apprenticed to a tinman, after a short episode at 'a large paper-warehouse, where he had f*     130      TEN YEARS OF' A LIFETIME. distinguished himself by falling through a trap on to a bundle of rags in the cellar, while attempting to test the nature of the pul- leys above. As he had secured this position after a month's trial as errand-boy, cnding ill a harmless run-over, it was deemed ex- pedient to try some steady business oflering fewer inducements to self-destruction, and tinning was suggested by a person in that line, being in want of a boy, and recording the fact on a slip of paper ill his window.             ,  As six weeks had passed without injury to his body or limbs, it was considered a successful essay on the part of the ill-starred youth; and tin, in all its forms, was at a premium in the house of Tod. As it was getting on towards sunset, in the autumn weather, Addie followed her friend the forewoman through the green gate opening on the street, at the side of the grocery, up the clean, red- bricked alley, with a depression in the centre, down which the waste-water from the community hydrant constantly trickled in a little rill. NToting  the small windows, with their white half- curtains, and the pots and boxes of green things on their ledges, and arguing well for the comfort to be extracted by social inter- course from even such poor plain lives, by the presence of females on different door-steps, armed with shapeless masses of sewing and mending, in genial converse, Addie caught sight of a pale face and wistful dark eyes at the partly opened door- of the last house on the left side, and decided at once that they belonged to Jenny, the scissors-artist, as she had called her. That she was right was proven by her companion's greeting-- "Well, Jenny, has the world consented to stand still long enough to let you take the air? or how does it come that you're not busy for one minute of your life?"         : "I was watching for you, and so it's your fault that I'm idle; you said you'd be home an hour ago, and I'm tired waiting." "A milliner can't tell the truth if she tries," returned her sister, convincingly; "so everybody knows the poqor things are not held accountable by Heaven. -This is our Addie; you know her, Jhnny, from hearsay, quite well, I'm sure." 7   TEA AT TOD'S.           131 "Oh, yes 1 I know," assented Jenny ; adding, unceremoniously, though not unkindly, "Come along in, and when I get time I'll show you some of my pictures that tMargaret says you ask about." There was no hall to the house, so crossing the threshold was to be in the family room-a clean and decent place, with a some- what crowded though comfortable appearance. A tidy woman, dressed in mourning, rose up and caume forward with a chairiand a cordial greeting, as Addie, following Jenriy's advice, entered. She was a cheerful, soft-spoken person, and hailed the new-comer with gracious welcome. 'For we're glad to see anybody fronm your place, let them be who they will," she said. "The Miss Le Roys. is good, sweet ladies;-,and Jenny and me both says so over and over again. Donli we, Jeriy?" , "You do,f responded Jenny, briefly, spreading out different colors in silk on the table as she spoke. "This is the blue one; I stitched the double casings in it. Are they right? Here's the buff; I did it as you told me, with the slip-stitch ; and there's the trimming, all frayed out like the pattern." "And all and every bit of it's right," answered her sister, approvingly. "There, Addlie, sit down ; and Jenny will let you see her pictures, as she calls them, and mother will get a cup of tea, while we stitch in the canes and draw the casings of these bonnets." Addie did as she was desired, and Jenny, first covering a little stand in the centre of the room with a clean towel, laid the work slhe had been showing her sister upon it, and set a low chair be- side it. Then she took a great paper-box, full of all sorts of cut- tings in colored paper, out from under the, settee, on which her vis- itor was seated, and cautioning her not to mess them up together, delivered them over for her inspection. Accepting the conditions, Addie went into the work of separating and' admiring the different figures and designs with very great interest, whilst Jenny, busied in aiding her sister, but looking sidewise at her guest's expression of face, showed herself by no means indifferent to the delighted comr ments bestowed on each new work of art examined.     132      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. Poor Jenny was a cripple, but not on that account curtailed in her quickness of motion. One of her legs was shorter than the other, and she only stepped on the toe-of her left foot; but though she was obliged, through this defect, to almost hop, rather than walk, she did it so briskly and easily, that her misfortune was rather curious than pitiful. She had a singularly restless pair of eyes, that danced and darted from one object to another without respite; and her voice had something of the same sharp quickness of expression, but was a trifle harsh and wiry in its tone. She had that about her which bespoke the existence of great personal beauty, marred by disease or accident; and in her mind and manner the same idea held good. She might have been a woman of something beyond ordinary intelligence, but for some purposeless rasping of temperament that interfered between repose of thought and her.  Her tissue-paper cutting seemed the most sympathetic business of her life; but it only seemed so, because she gave it her best and least divided attention-not that any expression of hers conveyed the idea of pleasure in her work. Now she snipped, and cut, and stitched, and gathered, at the Misses Le Roy's choice and elegant inventions, as if they were mere bits of silk without shape or purpose, glancing from them to her admiring visitor, and pursing up her lips, and raising her brows in assumed indifference when Addie's fervent admiration took the form of exclamations. Mrs. Tod was not a silent woman; in fact, her profound aversion to speechlessness imbued every subject with interest in her mind by which she might flee from it, and she now seized on the Misses Le Roy as an avenue of escape. "Aint it nice, though," she remarked, in exuberant confidence to Addie, " to think as you and Margaret is such friends? and how real pleasant it is to work together as the girls does down at the Miisses Le Roys! I know a lady when I see one, and I aunt mis- took in them, I can tell you. Why, they took and sent me and Jenny as pretty a pair of bonnets as I ever clapped my eyes on-   I,  TEA AT TOD'S.           133 in first-rate French taste, you know-all fixed off fit for a quality lady." Addie, feeling called on for an observation, intimated that it was indeed nice ; and Mrs. Tod, with a loaf in. one hand and a bread-knife in the other, went on to literally point out the fuyther excellencies of those ladies' characters. "So kind o' affable, too," she continued, using the knife to em- phasize her remarks; "no fussy airs about 'em, as I've ever seen. Margaret says they've learned all kinds of 'complishments, too, and never was brought up 4thowet their fingers. Now, I suppose, they've sort o'0'dopted you, haint they?" Addie lookeMd embarrassed. "They are very kind to me," she faltered, and tears sprung in her eyes. "They're kind to her and she's kind to them,", snapped Jenny, in a quick, sharp way. "Don't you know that's the way folks do in this world?-and it's the right way. She does her duty-why shouldn't she? They do theirs-why shouldn't they?" "I wished we had somethin' a leetle nicer for tea, sis," cried Mrs. Tod, breaking out on a new theme; "I do wished we had. A dried herring or two would kind o' relish along with the stewed apples; or maybe a slice of ham would go better. What do you say?" "I say, mother, lets have what you've got; and if you haven't got any thing, try and get it; that's all," answered her elder daughter, intent on the work in hand. "If I'm to have a holiday to-morrow, I must finish up what I'm at, and get it sent home with Addie be- fore it's really dark, or she'll be afraid to go." "I'm not afraid of going out at night," said Addie, stoutly; "don't hurry too much on account of that, Miss Tod." "Neither am I afraid," said Jenny, quietly; "and I hate cowards."' "Oh! as for that, Jen," returned her sister, stitching away, "it's all very well to be courageous; but girls must be prudent as well, you know.1"  ^   "'Some need only be just what they please, and I'm one of vA A     134      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. them," said the cripple, laughing a little, bitterly. "I bought out the right and title to suit myself when I lost my claim to any thing else." Addie looked up at her quickly, and her face flushed with pain- ful sympathy. "Oh, how beautifully you do all sorts of pretty work!" she hastened to say as an offset against the poor girl's underrating herself. "It is a delightful talent to make such things, because you can see the pleasure they give to those who look at them. I've often thought I should not care so much to write a book as to do some work that people are affected by, in my presence; the triumph that you can know and see is the only triumph." "Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Jenny, discordantly. "Triumphs, and genips, and all that, don't belong with the little figures cut out of paper. The most you can say of it is, that it's a sort of knack, and that I'm a handy little soul." "I'm goin' to brile a soaked mackerel," interposed Mrs. Tod at this juncture. "I went and asked Miss Perkins, ovet the fence at the back steps, if she had one left from yesterday-they had 'em for dinner then, you know;" and, says she,' Certingly, Miss Tod; I'm glad to oblige you.' What a thing it is to have nice respectable neighbors!" Simultaneously with this speech, the hissing and smothering smell of the fish in question over the fire made itself manifest, and Mrs. Tod set chairs around the tea-table, which she had been pre- paring in the other end of the room. "You're making a dreadful smother," objected her elder daugh- ter, in allusion to this odor, " and it will spoil the silk, too. Oh, mother, why couldn't you have got sausages, or something of that kind, as it's for Addie's entertainment you're thinking; she'd have liked it just as well, I'm sure." "Raise the window, and it'll be out in a minute," suggested Mrs. Tod, still busy about the meal which she was elaborating for the sake of impressing one of the employees of the great house of Le Roy favorably.  There's nothing so relishing as a bit of good fish; and I've   TEA AT TOD'S.          135 good sweet crackers to go with the sass afterwards. Set up, do, and let us have a mouthful while it's warm and tasty." Agreeably to this invitation they gathered round the frugal ' board, and Mrs. Tod, not without some little flourish and preten- sion, produced a china pot from the fireplace, from which she pro- ceeded to pour tea. "I ad a whole set of 'em onst," she remarked incidentally, " all complete, and jist as many as we could use. That was afore I lost their father, though; we had a many things then we can't' hope to have no more: and here comes Bob, all right, and in good time." Why the tin trade should have begrimed and sooted a youth to the extent that this particular one was begrimed and sooted, did not appear; but it seemed such a relief to his family that he bore no deeper marks of his conflict with metal, that Addie could cherish no objections to his present state. He grinned a greeting to his mother and sisters, and intimated by adhucking movement of his head that he recognized Addie's presence, before retiring into the back yard, in company with a crash towel and a bar of yellow soap, to perform his ablutions. "You must know, Addie," said Miss Tod, covering her work with a clean towel, and removing the table out of the way of danger from the passage of dishes to and from the hearth--" you must know that our poor Bob has had so many narrow escapes for his life, that we are afraid he may lose it some time or other, and are glad every time he comes back with whole skin." "But I had a run for it to-day, though," cried Bob, from the yard where he was bathing himself past recognition, and pausing momentarily in his efforts to catch the drift of the conversation within. :   " "What happened to you?" screamed his mother. ," Oh, Bob! what was it?" cried his sisters, in alarm. Much enjoying this commotion, the energetic Bob continued his scrubbing uninteruptedly for a moment or two, and then briefly  responded-  X re      136      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "A dorg." "A dog!" cried Mrs. Tod. "What does the young one mean? How could a dog happen to you? Just stop your nonsense this minute, Bob, and speak out." "He was a runnin' alon," continued Bob, in a slow, retrospect- ive manner, quite unmoved by this appeal-" lhe was a runnin' along jis as qpit and pleatsant as a angel, when all of a suddint, as I comes out with a little solder what I was a heatinug for Mr. Macks-J"  Here lie plunged his face into the suds of the wash-bowl, and spluttered convulsively fr- a few minutes, in consequence. io on, you monkey, shouted Jenny, impatiently. "You're clea  enough now, so let the water alone, and go on." "Mr. Macks was fixing pipe out on the payment, see," pro- ceeded Bob in intervals of rubbing-,cleaning that his employer was at work on the sidewalk,-" and so I was a carrying the solder to him when I sees the dorg a comin', and not knowing as any thin' was wrong with him, I gives a whistle-so," imitating the sound in question, and pausing to button his shirt sleeves, and resume his jacket. "You're a provoking imp," cried Jenny, exasperated. "What do you mean by dragging it out into a long story? Why can't you say what happened at once?" "You hold on, now," said Bob, warningly, "or I  won't tell nothin' more. You're crosser than two sticks,I see, so you are; and you haint no more feelin' about a feller's bein' in danger than nothin', so you aint." Allowing his injuries to prey on her for a moment or two, Bob silently carried forward a chair, and seated himself next to Addie; then, conquering the memory of his sister's harshness, he pro- ceeded briskly : "So I, never thinkin' nothin' queer, calls the dorg, when all to onst it comes right up with me, and jumps for my neck, and snaps with its teeth, and acts in sich a way that I drops the ladle, and over goes the hot solder, at which the dorg howls ferocious, and I runs for it." "  Well, indeed, Bob," said Mrs. Tod, as this narrative sank into    i             TEA AT TOD'S,          137 her understanding, "it seems that the beast got the worst of it- ::  don't it, Margaret?" j           ' "Ye-es," said Bob; "but if you had saw me run, though. Crackey! did'nt I go lickity split till I come up with MacFadden's wheelbarrer, and went over inter it!" "What did you run for?" asked Jenny, sharply; " you'd done all the harm yourself, it seems.9" "'Cause the dorg was mad," said the boy, slowly, and with solemn effect. "The dorg was mad, as true as you're born, or it never could made sich howls. Why, they was the awfullest howls that ever was know'd, I do suppose; and it I hadn't run, he would bit me, and I should be a biting all the rest of you; so I tell you what, it's lucky for all that I did run." "What became of the poor thing?" asked Addie, anxiously. "Was there nobodylto think of -how it must have suffered? ph, I saw a poor goat once, that had vitriol spilt on it, and I never can forget how dreadful it was."            I "Why, yes, they did kind of fix it up, too, but it was a ipad dorg, I tell you, and so nobody couldn't come near it till they had shot it first. After bthat, they throw'd water on it awhile,; but it was dead-nothin' could be done. When I know'd it wasn't fol- lerin' me, I stopped ; and when I come back, they told me what a narrer escape I had: so I went out to look at the poor thing, feelin' sorry that it had to be put out of pain. You remember Jule, mother, that used to play here in the court, and belonged to Tom MacCann-don't you?    Well, it was her, and maybe she know"Id me, which was what made her jump; but any how she ;vas a mad dorg, and it's a blessin' I wasn't bit.'" "I don't believe it," said Jenny, angrily, "and' you're a stupid fellow to spill hot lead on an animal, and give it pain. Go away with your grinning-there's no sense in it bt all." But Bob, whose tenderness of nature was not so delicately developed as his sense of personal safety, continued to laugh and eat with great satisfaction, despite his sister's disapprobation. By and by he turned round suddenly, and looking steadily at Addie, exclaimed-    .      138      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.            I "Why, yes, to be sure, it mustk have been you what he was asking about. I never thought of it, but it must have been you." "Who was asking?" cried Addie, in surprise--"Mr. Macks or the dog's owner? I don't understand you ; please tell me what Vou mean." Then Bobs with the eyes of his family fixed on him in astonish- ment, began to say that hp had been alone in, the shop during the short absence of Mr. Macks, and that a strange man, whom he described 4a a " queerish chap," came in to buy a couple of tin mugs. During the progress of the sale this individual had asked him if he didn't sometimes go errands for Miss Le Roy; and on his owning to such an occupation a year ago, during busy time, the stranger remarked that there was a girl in the family whom he had noticed, very minutely describing Addie for Bob's identifica- tion-without success, however, for that youth, by his own account, "couldn't no more remember her than nothin' at all, although he confessed to recalling his sister's frequent mention of her a moment afterwards. "The chap said it didn't make no difference, but he'd liked to have found some one what know'd her, she reminded him so much of a little sister he used to have ; though I didn't believe a word about that, mind ye, for jest as sure as I'm here he never had no sister-he's not the kind that does have 'em, I know." This little incident made Addie very thoughtful-so much so, indeed, that the table was cleared away, and the bonnets com- pleted and made into an angular parcel, with thick, white paper, before she spoke again or seemed to bring herself back from the absent fit into which its mention had thrown her. "If Bob will promise not to get himself or you run over, Addie, we'll give him the honor of escorting you, for it's later than I thought for, and you'd better not go alone," said Miss Tod, delivering the package with a sigh of relief that her work was over for the time. "No, no, please!" said Addie, eagerly. ' I won't trouble him at all, and I can run along myself without a bit of danger, you know."   AN ADVENTURE.           i39 Catching up her parcel, she thanked Jenny for some pretty papers she gave her, bade Mrs. Tod at respectful good-night, and took a quick leave of Miss Tod and Bob, lest she should not be al- lowed to go alone. CAPTE CHAPTER XV. AN ADVENTURE. NOT stopping to walk she took a skipping run, which she kept up till completely out of breath and far enough away from the court. Then she paused and fell into a quiet walk, in which she gave herself up to thinking of the man who had asked about her so particularly of young Bob Tod. "Who could he be, and what was his motive?" were the thoughts she revolved over and over again in her mind, till she felt strangely dizzy and confused with the unanswerable nature of the questions. Suddenly a hand touched her arm and a voice spoke in her ear- "If you're not in too big a hurry, little miss, I'd be proud to walk beside you." She turned quickly and recognized the little lame man who had behaved so oddly towards her that morning in the kitchen. The discovery filled her with an unaccountable dismay, for despite her reason, the whimsical face and changeful manner of the man made her uneasy. But it was not in her nature to betray fear, so she quietly- "I'm going home, sir, as fast as I can, and I thi'nk I had much better run on alone." "That's your indepindince, miss," he returned, smiling and bow- ing. "I admire it in ye more nor I'm able to tell. It makes a little quane of ye, and ye have the manner to carry it off so fine; but sure I'm not the man to lave ye unattended, so I'll walk wid ye out of respict."     "O      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. To this Addie ventured no reply, but hurried forward with in- creased speed, the limping step of her companion still keeping pace with her. "Now I wouldn't take the liberty of asking the great favor I'm going to, miss, but, if you belave me, it's my regard for ye gives me the courage to spake out. Maybe ye don't suspicion what it is? Well, now, think a bit. What is it that ye'd most like to know?" The girl's face flushed and burned, and she turned about short and faced him. "It was you that asked after me from little Bob Tod," she said; " if you know any thing about me that is of service to you, speak out, and let me understand you. I'm sure and certain that you would do nothing for any other motive." "There you mistake," cried the lame man, earnestly; "I don't care the snap of my fingers for mysilf. And why should I, faith? I'm a purty-looking object to spind thought on, bedad!" ]ere he laughed merrily, and Addie's faith in his smile renewed itself, to be lost in the queer pucker of his mouth and the moody gathering of his brows that followed, as he continued-- "But there's thim living that I would give the poor maimed carcass of me to sarve, ye must know; and why shouldn't your nate little silf be one of thim?  Will ye take me at my word, miss? I can tell ye what ye'd like most to know-think of that!-and if it's not worth yer while to heed me, I'll go on."  Here he made a pretence of stepping forward, as if to leave her. She evidently considered his proposition worth entertaining, for she was now the one to hasten onward and arrest his steps. "Please, Mr. jLavaridge, don't go yet. Why should you care to make a mystery? I am too insignificant to make it worth your while." "Will ye do a little favor to obleege me?"He stopped and looked her in the face by the light of the street lamp, under which they stood, as he asked the question.         After a second's pause, Addie answered frankly-  "Yes, if it is any thing that is not wrong, or evil."   t.       .  .   AN ADVENTURE.           141 :+   a Wihy should I ax ye to do a wrong turn; it would be denying :; that I know ye or the stock ye sprung from?" "Then what is it?"She stood still and faced him, waiting calmly for a reply. "I want to show ye a bit of paper wid writing on it, that ye may remimber, and to get at it I must go to a place I'm stopping at. Will ye go wid me? . Addie looked down at the parcel in her hand, and thought of the Misses Le Roy waiting at home for the work that must be fin- ished before morning; then some other thought flashed upon her, stronger and more powerful than this, for she said- "Is it far?" "Not the lingth of a half-mile." ".'ll go, then," she replied, and turned round on her heel, wait, ing for him to lead in whatever direction he would. Hie was not slow to decide which it should be, but flew along in an opposite way to that in which they had been coming, at a great rate for so poor a figure. Addie kept close at his heels, at first a little fearfully, and with many a backward glance, as they crossed into strange streets, and began to make their way in a neighborhood totally new to the eyes of the startled girl. After a while she stopped, and calling out to the man, who was still in advance, said--"I don't want to go on, because you are taking me further than you said." "And here we are at the door, ye see, miss," he cried, halting before a house without light or sign of inhabitant in any of its -: .  windows. "Just wait a bit till I light me candle, and I'll be wid ye in a jiffy." '!;   With this he disappeared down a step or two leading to the sunken doorway, and opened it by pushing against it, apparently, as he neither used latch nor key. Addie saw that she was in a it:i small street or alley, leading out of a greater one, wherein was a    public market, and abundance of stores, of a mean though varied description. There were few dwellings in this little outlet, but stables and storage yards in plenty; besides, there were two or three drinking-places-one a beer cellar, with a restaurant attached, &      "2      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. and the look and smell of every thing she saw convinced her that they were in close neighborhood to the river, though she had taken no note of the fact in coming. It took Dick Lavaridge longer to find his candle than he had thought for, inasmuch as "the jiffy" extended into a good many minutes before he returned. When he did, it was with the light shaded in his hand, and every appear- ance on his face of having been laughing with great zest and enjoyment. "Mind the fall in the door-step, plase," he said, still chuckling; "ye mustn't be lookin' down on me, for me mane lodging-it's convaynient, ye see, though that's all I can say for it." Without any introductory passage, Addie stepped at once from the doorway into a disagreeably dirty room, with the furniture of a sleeping-room and kitchen combined, and all of the meanest description. There were two dingy and tattered-looking cots, some old tables and chairs, a faded calico curtain strung across a recess that evidently contained household stores, and a dirty but not entirely uncomfortable-looking lounge, that in its cushions and capacious shape was at variance with all the rest, and only asserted sympathy in its defacing soils. On a table near this couch the little man placed the light, and motioning Addie to sit, chuckled again, and seemed entirely overcome with an inexplicable sense of mirth, by no means shared by his young companion, who, regard- ing him steadily, demanded that he should now tell her what she had come so far to hear.  "To hear was it, darlin' b he asked. "Faix, now, I think it was to see. Kape aisy, atn mind what I tould ye. I know what you'd give all iver ye saw to know, but I'll not tell it to ye all at oust. Wait till I find the bit of paper I'm going to show ye now." With this end in view he placed a chair near the table, and glanced from it to the curtain over the recess; then he changed the position of the candle, and backed off towards the place where his attention had been fixed, to take a view of the arrangement; then he came back, and motioning Addie to sit in the place he had designel for her, took "the bit of paper" from the palm of his   AN ADVENTURE.           143 hand, where he had been holding it all the time, and, spreading its dirt-stained creases out before her, said out loud, and with marked expression, "Now, take a good look, and be sure of what ye see." At the same moment he stepped aside, and a wild, white face, with a rough shock head, thrust itself out of the centre of the miserable curtain, and fixed upon her pale, attentive face a curi- ously malicious look from a pair of black, sallow-rimmed eyes. Unconscious of the scrutiny, Addie shuddered a moment as she looked at the writing before her, and then sighed deeply, and bit her lips, to control her rising emotion. There were but a few words written on the scrap of fly-leaf she held, and they only said: "Sell it for me if you can. I have broken it in bits to prevent its being recognized; and bring the monley after dark to the same place." They seemed to recall more than the poor girl cared to remember, for she struggled against the feeling awakened, until, with a choking sob, she gave way, and laying her head down on the coarse table, wept aloud. Then the spying head hastily with- drew itself, and Dick Lavaridge said- ' It's all right, ye see, and we may make something out of it yet." The sound of his voice brought Addie back to herself and the bonnets and the waiting milliners. "I know this paper," she said, starting to her feet, " and I am glad to have seen it. I shall not give it back, so you needn't ask me. Whatever you choose to tell me I want to hear, as you know well enough, but no more to-night. I should never get home-I should forget where I belonged and what I have to do-while I listened." "Yes, sartingly, ye may go-why shouldn't ye? All I wanted to do was to show ye the bit of paper. I won't ask ye if it's cor- rect, for I see by yer taking it'up so quick that it's all right. This is the way out. Stop a bit, till I take the bundle for ye; there ye are, safe an' sound, an' the way plain before ye." Without waiting to ask where the street beyond led to, the child no sooner felt herself free of the house and man than she fled over the ground like a demented creature, only seeming      "4      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. to consider the distance she could put between herself and Dick Lavaridge, and not the necessity of going to her own ho:ne. Fortunately, slihe accomplished both objects at once, an], after a turning or two, found herself in streets with. which she was fa- miliar, alonrg which she hurried, never slackening her pace till she reached the milliners' door. CHAPTER XVI. M ISS  N OR A H S FEVER. As she went -up the broad stone steps, it came into her mind, for the first time, that some inquiries would be likely to ensue concerning her detention, and that she must either make up her mind  to tell the truth or keep silent, since it was not in her nature to descend to subterfuge. "And I shall have Miss Norah and Miss Debby displeased with me.   I'm sorry for that," she thought. "I shouldn't mind Kitty, for I  could bother her into being good-tempered again, but I don't want to offend the good ladies." Something in the air of the house struck her as strange, as she entered. The hall-lamp was burning as usual, and the parlors were closed, as they always were in the-evening; but, somehow, an indescribable sense of something having happened oppressed her as she reached the workroom  door and found it dark and de- serted. In the kitchen a lamp burned drearily; the wick full of coal, and the oil low as if entirely neglected, and every thing was so painfully silent that Kitty's heavy tread on the stairs above was a joyful relief to her heart. "  Och, ye're there, are ye?" said that faithful servitor, appear- ing. "Well, we're in black troubles now, for Miss NoraL's tuck down wid a   faver, and her mind's left her intirely." Hearing this appalling announcement, Addie dropped the bon-   MSS NORAH'S FEVER.          145 nets recklessly on the kitchen table, and sank into a chair with a white, frightened face. The poor lady's distraction in the morning, and the perturbation she had evinced at Dick Lavaridge's pres- ence, blended together in her mind with the night's adventure, and she felt somehow responsible for the family distress, and strangely confused in consequence. Poor Kitty was evidently beside herself with grief, for she wrung her hands wildly as she paced the kitchen, uttering moan- ing accompaniments that were rather groans than words. "Och, och! see what the black trouble's brought on us. She'll -niver rise up again, poor lamb; she's been druv to death wid one stroke afther another, so there's nothing left but the grave as a refuge." Perhaps the utter desolation of Kitty's view of the case roused Addie from her own dejection, for she looked at the poor red-eyed creature tenderly, and then composed her own face, and seemed to recall her strength at the sight. "Pray, don't give up hope, dear Kitty," she said, rising. "I think Miss Norah has had too much to do, and yet she would take no rest. Maybe, now that she is forced to keep quiet, it may save her life. A fever is not so fearful, you know; thousands get well of fevers." "3But not sich favers as hers, avic," cried Kitty, determinedly hopeless. "She's wild and raving, and her eyes is set with a death look. Och! dear Addie, we'll be left dessolute intirely." "Where is Miss Debby?" asked Addie, seeing the uselessness of present consolation. "She's up beside her bed, watching wid a breaking heart," moaned Kitty. "Have they a doctor?" asked Addie again, after a moment's pause. "Yes; the new lodger fetched one whin he saw how bad she was, and Mr. Siebert wint up an hour ago for Mr. Campbell, but he's not come back yet." Addie looked about for a candle, and finding one, lighted it and took the bonnets up to the workroom, where she placed them     "6      TEwN YEARS OF A LIFETGA E carefully on the table; then she sat the chairs and boxes fi order, and gathered up the various clippings from the floor, As she did so, she tried to set her mind steadily on one subject, and reason herself into calmness. "I nmust not think of myself at all," she said. "I can wait for years, as I have waited. What had best be done here, that's what I must find out." She raised her head from her task and stood, her finger on her lips, a thoughtful face, grown calm and womanly in a fewt hours, full of purpose and self-control. "Miss Tod," she said, at last. "That's it, I must go fo Miss Tod. She's the only one who can manage here now, and she must give up her holiday for the ladies' sake."'  She took up the candle again and stole up stairs on tip-toe, her face fixed in her resolution. When she reached the door of the front garret she paused, for through its partly closed aperture came a low murmur that never ceased, sometimes only a sound, sometimes words, and always a pitiful wail, that was dreadful to listen to " "Don't let any one know; keep it close, piay, keep it close. They're watching and prying. Keep it close." So went on the ceaseless cry, never pausing in its monotony. Addie stopped and listened, and by and by she distinguished another fainter sound, which she knew to be the poor sister's sob- bing. Softly she pushed open the door, and entered so noiselessly that neither looked up or were conscious of her presence. 'On the bed Miss Norah was throwing her arms about Wildly, and tossing back her long loose hair, that had lost its comb and bands. Her face was scarlet, and her eyes were burning and gleam- ing intensely. Her sister was crouched beside her, on one of the maimed chairs, with her head bowed between her hands, sobbing and weeping in a suppressed tone. Addle stood  near her, timidly waiting for some sign of recognition, and, finding that she was not heeded, made a slight stir to attract attention. Miss Debby looked up quickly, and it would have been difficult to imagine a greater change in so cheerful a face, wrought by a few hours of trouble and distress.   MSS NORAI S FEVER.          147 "I came up to ask you, Miss Debby, if I may go for Miss Tod to take charge of the workroom till Miss Norah is better?" said Addie, quietly, and endeavoring to banish from her face and manner any thing like gloomy apprehension as to the event of the illness. Miss Debby looked confused, and put her hand up to her head as if to steady it. "What's that?" she said, in a flurried way-- "the wrkr ha h rrin aout orkroom-what is the use of worrying about work?- tlat's all over now-we're past that, Addie." "No, Miss," cried Addie, gently, but cheerily; "don't say so. Miss Norah will be better presently, and it would worry her to think things were neglected for even a few days. She'll soon be well enough to ask about it, I'm sure." "Oh, Addie I she'll never be well again! Kitty says so ; and I think death is set in her eyes. She has suffered so much, and been so uncomplaining, that now she is broken down never to rise again." Addie burst into sobs of sympathy with her mistress's grief ; but still the spirit of hope and comfort gleamed like a pure, sweet light in her face. "Dear, dear Miss Debby!" she said, solemnly, "I've been a foolish little thing, full of nonsense, and given you trouble and bother, too; but please to try and trust me now. I've seen sor- row and sickness before, and I can never forget it. I understand more of that than any thing else; and I see that Miss Norah is very sick, but not death-struck. She'll be well again, I believe and trust, through God's mercy; and you can watch and wait on her, and I'll help you, if you will let me," "Let you, little cricket!" said Miss Debby, eagerly. "I'll be glad of any thing you can do for us; for you and Kitty know our poor ways, and no one else need." "Shall I go for Miss Tod?" "Yes, yes; that's wise and well thought of-if there is any use in thinking o4any thing now; but, oh, I'm afraid it's too late I Look at my poor darling I She has had so much sorrow, this blow must be her last."     "8      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. Addie stole softly towards the bed, and gathered the tangled hair up from the pillows over which its long strands lay scattered. Carefully and handily she bound it into a loose knot, and fastened it with a black ribbon from her own neck. Then she read the labels on the bottles, and exclaimed-- "This is for her head ; I must bathe it, for that will make it cooler." "Did they come?" said Miss Debby, in faint surprise--"the doctor said he would send them ; but he don't know that it's trouble, and there is no medicine for that." Without further permission, Addie mixed the fluid with water, and, in an old china basin, prepared to cool and bathe the burniag forehead, which she did as cleverly as an old practised nurse. Then she found a spoon, and administered a draught according to direction, and, wetting an old linen rag, laid it over the brow of the unconscious woman. "I'm going to get ice, Miss Debby," she whispered. "I've seen them use ice, and I know it's good. Didn't the doctor tell you so? "I don't know," said the bewildered woman i "he didn't speak to me. Mr. Siebert came up, and he went for my cousin, George Campbell. Oh, Addie  do you know any thing about such' fevers, and is there any hope?" The girl surprised herself by her own power in assuming the posi- tion of comforter to one who had been so lately her self-possessed, gay-spirited mistress. She told her that she had known such a sick- ness to last days and days, and yet subside to give place to perfect health once more. She made light of the symptoms, discovered hopeful signs, and dwelt on the suddenness of the attack as a proof tha t it would not be lasting or severe. And all this, while it smote her young heart with pity to see how earnestly and eagerly the poor lady clung to her every word, and how utterly her nerves and spirits were shattered by the shock. "We found her in a sort of fit," she said, "and I had seen her an hour before, looking worried and troubled enough; but she was used to that, so I never asked her to tell me what it was, or tried   +4^ MSS NORAH'S FEVER.                 14 to share it with her. I was busy getting the workroom clear ( the orders that were nearly done, when I wanted some blue ri)bboi and went in to speak to her about the shade. Oh! Norah, darling why didn't you call me or speak to me? It was so horrible t find her there all alone, with her face convulsed with pain, and he eyes wide open but seeing nothing!" Here she broke down again, and Addie hastened with r repet tion of her comforting remembrances of other cases of worse alpp rent symptoms, as an offset to the terrors occasioned by th s. "And she'll be sure to be better when the fever's brok a, Mis and you'll think it was foolish to be so alarmed. Don'tL 3ou s( how much quieter she is with the cloth on her head?" 'She really did appear less resti* under the administrations 4 the young nurse, and Miss Debby readily and thankfully ac:novv edged in another the ability she was totally without herself. Po( Kitty's foot resounded heavily on the stairs, and the red-eye disconsolate creature appeared with a bowl of smoking and stear ing gruel. "If you can get her to sup a dhrap or two, I'll n{ give up hope," she whispered; Sure, if she could get it all. dow she'd be a new crayture." But Addie was in command, and asserted her position. Kitty," she said, with a quiet determination that struck hi faithful ally with amazement, "you are entirely wrong about Mi Norah, and ynou have helped to frighten and distract Miss Debl without meaning it. She has a fever that must be broken befo she can eat, and to do that, care and quiet and medicine a needed. Please take the hot stuff down and go for ice,{ while keep her head bathed with this." ft       "'Is it ice?" murmured Kitty, in a dazed sort of way. "Sure never heard of sich doin's; a dhrop of wake punch was iverly good thing for a faver wiJ uz, and I would have had it made there had been a color of liquor in the house." "Here's Mr. Siebert, thank Heaveni" said Addie, joyfull "and he will tell you what I do." The artist stood in the door-way, with his hat in his hand, wi ing his damp forehead, as one who had been in great haste. hi     150      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. Debby came forward to meet him, and seemed flattered between conflicting desires. "Is my cousin George coming?" she asked, falteringly. "I am sorry to say that I haven't been able to find him yet," re- plied Mr. Siebert. "I have followed him, by direction, from one place to the other, but always came up too late to catch im. The family are all out of town, and he seems crowded with en- gagements." "Yes, yes, he was always gay, I know; and if it is not so 1ad with us as we at first dreaded, it's better that he should not co ae; that is, there is no need to alarm him." The painter stood still on the doorway and watched Addie's ef- forts at nursing, .Mterestedly, but without comment. "I am doing what is best, am I not?!' she asked. "Yes," answered he, approvingly; " and I'll get you some ice, if Miss Le Roy has no other command for me." "No, no," said Miss Debby, eagerly; "I'll not send again; I was so alarmed that I thought I must see some one belonging to us, but I trust in God it was needless fear." Poor woman! She trembled in her hope, and glancing distress- fully at her moaning, unconscious sister, burst into tears.  "Then I'll go for ice, and bring that night-draught the doctor ordered, too," said Mr. Siebert, and departed. Kitty sat down, with the still-smoking gruel in her hand, and looked helplessly and forlornly on her two mistresses, as one bho had failed in the only art with which she was familiar. Poor Miss Debby stood betwixt her and Addie, and looked in curiously fluctuating emotion from one to the other. The ol er woman represented to her tried and patient truth, the steady sym- pathizer in past sorrow, and the unalienable love of faith and years; but the other awakened a new hope, and suggested a present aid and solace, and to her she turned, forgetting her hum- ble station and tender years, and clung about her neck, crying-o "Oh! Addie dear! if you will only stand by us, and strive to help and save her, we never will forget what you have done, and Heaven will bless you for the work!"   A DAWNING KNOWLEDGE OF EVIL.         151 CHAPTE R XVII. A DAWNING KNOWLEDGE O3 EVVILr, As the day began to dawn, Miss Norah's fever seemed t 3yield and lessen for the first time, and a respite of partial ease succeeded her distressful tossings. Addie stole into the next room, whithcr she had persuaded Miss Debby to retire, fully dressed, for a rest on Kittys bed, and woke her fellow-laborer, who was lying hoarsely snoring beside her. "Kitty," she whispered in her ear, " please rise and sit beside Miss Norah, while I ran to Miss Tod's; the morning air will be as good to me as sleep and 1ll be back in an hour." Wide-eyed, a  d. i staring confusion, Kitty sprang uprigpt anc glared before her in helpless amaze. '"What is it?" she muttered "is she worse, the dear lamb  Orra, why but ye let her have a sup of strengthening' drink, darlilnt She's better; but Miss Debby must ,est, so dornt speak abov( your breath  rm going for Miss Tod to manage the business That must not be neglected, or Miss Norah will be worse as sooi as she hears it." Yes, yes, I know that; and P11 be wid ye in a minute," Kitt2 assented, oming to a sense of her position out of the botter an flurry of her dream. In a little while Addie was walking briskly in the direction o the night before, with a strange sense of chilliness in every limb that not even the early sunshine could dissipate. /-       "It's the newness of the scene," she said to herself, " and it ma; be the recollections that it brings back; but I feel as if it wer ten long years since this time yesterday morning.: Miss Le Roy lay very ill, day after day, and the volunteer nurs was fully established in her position, to the unbounded s1rpris of the wlole workroom. Fortunately, these were only beginnin( to be busy days, and Miss Tod, who had instantly obeyed Addie'     152      TENT YEARS OF A LIFETIMEE. summons, was able to manage the orders, and prepare for thl fall opening. Miss Debby did nothing but wander from one part of the establishment to the other, in forlorn perturbation, standing weeping silently above her sister's bed, or equally uselessly essay- ing to assist in the workroom. Only one idea was strongly developed in her by the su den blow, and that was an inconsistent faith in the child-nurse, that was more than reliance, and amounted to absolute superstition. If Addie for a moment left the post she had assumed, the poor soul became restless and anxious, and hailed her return with intense relief. From her face she learned the hourly bulletins of the patient's state, and to her she appealed for the truth of the doctor's report. "He says she's better, Addie, but do you really think so?" she would ask. ",Don't keep the truth from me, for heaven's sake, for you know he may be deceiving us." Addie never lost hope, and, strangely enough, her strength seemed equal to her trust. Row she rested, and how she renewed her powers of enduring fatigue, no one could guess; for, poor Miss Debby, contrary to her usual custom, was strangely exacting and thoughtless on the subject. So that Addie should be there at all times, and that her sister should never miss her care, seemed the one desideratum beyond which she had not the strength to look. Thin and pale as she was, her vitality seemed miraculous, for be- yond an hour's nap in the bedside chair, she could have had no rest for the first six days and nights of danger, yet nobody seemed'conscious of this strain on her young nerves, except the artist. To Kitty Donahue "the ladies" were the all-important object of life, and her own or Addie's comfort were mere drops in the ocean of their claims on her service. That she was useful in the present dire emergency, she looked upon as Addie's good fortune, but that the delicate-looking girl should fail under the weight and burden of the sick-room never disturbed her calculations. Poor Miss Norah, she recognized no one, and realized nothing; one settled idea only prevailed in the chaos of her thoughts, and   A DAWNING KNOWLEDGE OF EVIL.        153 that was concealment of something, and dread of exposure. Hier distant cousin, George Campbell's name, had been frequently mentioned during the first eveningof her illness, and perhaps she had caught the sound; but now she repeated it over and over again tp Addie in terrified whispers, charging her to delude him and mislead him, to do any thing or every thing rather than let him guess the truth. Steadily, and with dogged persistence to one idea, Addie as- sented and promised in every case without a word of inquiry, for she said to herself: "I have been curious to know their trouble and their mystery, but now it would be abominably wicked to pry further. Poor lady, I should stop my ears rather than listen."             / Even in her distress and bewilderment, the same idea in another form presented itself to Miss Debby, and she many times said to the devoted girl- "Addie, with God's help, we will prove what we owe you some day, for you've done more for us than we can ever forget: but don't heed the nonsense that Norah talks; it was always her way to romance when she hld the least touch of fever. Snuch strange wild fancies nobody ever dreamed of; but they're only fancies, you know-only wild, nonsensical fancies." One day a girl came from below to jay that Mr. George Camp- bell was waiting ; and could he see Miss Debby? The messenger had said this in a low voice, but the sick woman caught the sound. "What is it?" she cried, springing up in bed, and reaching her wan face out towards the door. i'      "Is it George--cousin George? Then it's all a mistake, anc (t    he needn't move a step in the matter. Many a one's been de ceived by a likeness, and that can be the only proof he has. Tel him to go home and rest his mind; we would know it, if it were to be known. Oh, Debby, Debby I for mercy's sake throw him oi the track."  "There, you see," cried Miss Debby, in an unnaturally suppresses tone, "there's the same raving nonsense that she always wen     154      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. through t3ien a child. Nobody would believe how silly it is; and what but fevers would give her such ideas, any way?" She looked earnestly at Addie, who motioned her to go, while she renewed some cooling application for the sick woman's head; and finding that the appeals of her sister had produced no won- dering expressiol on her attendant's face, she hurried off. But  lr. George Campbell seemed to have grown imp'atieit of her momentary delay, and to have mounted the first flight of stairs in his determination to see her at once; for from the open door his words sounded clearly and distinctly- "What in the name of the inexplicable," he cried, in a full, rounded voice, that was not without a certain charm to its tone, "has made a martyr of my poor black-eyed girl? I must see her, and give you both a lecture on your miserly ways. What the deuce do you mean, wearing yourselves to pieces to make a fortune for your old age, in place of letting chance introduce you to some fine fellow who would be glad to take charge of your necessities, and provide for you matrimonially." "Oh, George dear, be quiet. Norah's been at death's door." "And what carried her there?" cried the cousin, totally unsub- dued. "Not ease or comfort, I'll be bound. I'm half sick of you for a niggardly pair!" "She's not past danger yet, I fear, and it startles her to hear any new voice. Come down to the parlor," urged Miss Debby. "Pshaw! what harm would it do her to see me?" returned the cousin, 'discontentedly; "perhaps it would be the making of her. What are you doing for her, and what nurse and doctor have youn? "She's well attended to, George dear," murmured Miss Debby, evading a direct answer. "Come down, and I'll explain to you low she was taken, and maybe you can advise with us." "Advise with you," muttered he, vexatiously. "Yes, and ymu'll take your own way when I'm through, as you always do. Sine I know your queer, close ways, and I wonder at my patience in bothering with you." From the decreasing sound of their voices it seemed that they   '4- A DAWNING KNOWLEDGE OF EVIL.             155 were descending together; and Addie, who was smoothing the pillows under her patient's head, was terrified to see her start up from her arms, and, bounding out on the floor, close the door, vio- lently screaming- "Hes on the watch, and may scent it out after all these years. I tell you, I will. die before that day. I have given up all I ever l!^   cherished to ward it off, and I'll give up my life before I am forced to see it now." She staggered back to the bed, and fell across it, panting and shivering. "It's blood," said Addie to herself, solemnly-" blood that has been spilt, and that cries out from the ground. Nothing else could cause an agony like this." "Whist!"' said a voice, hissing a whisper through the door crack. "Spake to me a minute, little miss; ye see I'm pressed for time, and couldn't stand on me manners. Kitty Donahue has gone an arrint, and there was no one in the kitchen to introjuce me by announcement."     -  It was Dick Lavaridge who spoke, b the poor lady whom his presence would most have distressed was sunk in exhausted uncon- j\   sciousness, after her late effort and excitement. Addie, as she strove to recover herself, looked up at him stead- ily, yet feeling like one in a dream-no positive surety of any thing that happened around her. "You see she cannot speak to you," she said ; "and Miss Debby is below with her cousin, Mr. George Campbell. You don't want to see him-do you?" Now she had no reason to suppose that Dick Lavaridge would 's?    dread the presence of the gentleman she named, but, by a Sudden instinct, it came- to her to say this, and, looking on the man who stood eyeing her so oddly as an enemy, or persecutor of the poor ladies, she rejoiced in her heart at the effect of her words. If the whimsical face, with the sharp, bad eyes, and the merry, good mouth, had been suddenly stricken by paralysis, it coum not have more completely distorted itself into terror. "Whiraloo 1" he cried breathlessly ; "the divil's blight on him!     1j6      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. Where did ye say he was?" and he looked about him wildly, and made a dash towards the curtain that hung in the corner by way of wardrobe, as if to conceal himself. "He's here," said Addie, quietly, with a keen relish of the effect of her words; "and he will be here till the sickness and trouble's over. I will tell him any thing you want him to know, and hie'll manage to represent the poor ladies, who are too distressed to attend to any business for themselves."- "Would ye, now, ye imp of evil? Ye know as well as yer living the diviltry of yer words: but stop there, and don't go a letter further, if ye vally yer own good luck, mne jewel. Tell me, now, on yer future hope of kiowin' the saycret, where is the cousin-is he above or below? Will I meet him goin' down on the stairs, or am I safe to lave now? Tell me, or I'll take it out of ye!" and he advanced on her as Miss Norah drew a long breath and opened her eyes. Addie moved quickly, and stood before her. "You can go down the way you came-they are in the parlor," she said, in a pleasant, quiet tone. And the sick woman's eyes closed again, while she renewed her efforts to bring her back to consciousness. "Hould yer whisht, for both yer own sake an' mine," muttered Dick, and was gone without another word, while the poor girl staggered under the weight of the sufferer she was raising for air, and. still more under the weight of a dawning knowledge of the mysterious trouble that hung over the milliners' household. CHAPTER   XVIII. ADDIE' S FIRST GLIMPSE AT LOVE. Miss NORAH lay ailing for many days, that lengthened into weeks, before strength to rise and move about as of old came to her; but Addie's vigil relaxed as soon as consciousness was re-   ADDIE'S FIRST GLIMPSE AT LOVE.       1 stored to her patient, who, strange to say, with returning reasoi evinced an unaccountable antipathy to her society and services. "IWhere are Debby and Kitty?" were almost the first wordt she spoke, in a natural tone; and being answered that they wer below-stairs, she begged to see them both at once. Poor Addie, rejoiced at the return of her old familiar ranner hastened to summon them with the pleasant news; and- when the) came, the trembling, hollow-eyed invalid raised herself up to say in a faint voice, betraying her late suffering- "What is the reason one of you can't stay with me? Why an left to a child like this? It's absurd and it's unkind. I trust in heaven I'll soon be able to take care of myself; and till then, ] beg of you to make an effort between you to give me wha; little attention I need. Leaving me in this way is not what I looked for from either of you." Kitty made no other reply than to accept her trust witL ever) expression of devotion; but Miss. Debby could not understand her sister, nor forget her indebtedness to the errand-girl. "If you knew what you were saying, Norah," she cried, excitedly "you'd talk differently, I'm sure. Why, girl alive, if it wasn't fo] that little soul, as white as a ghost with the work she's done, you'd have been in your grave to-day. God bless you, Addie, and forgei me when I lose my gratitude- " But the suddenness of this vindication and its force were toe much for the invalid, who fell back, white and tearful, and mur mured "that it was a shame to desert her, and she'd strive to tak( care of herself now," etc., Addie rose, and glancing gently at the broken-down, tremblinl figure on the bed, looked towards Miss Debby with eyes that spoke enough of devotion and responsive affection to need no words went quietly away, and never more resumed her office there. In the kitchen, late in the evening, as she was making tea , Mis, Debby came and stood beside her. Her face and manner wer fiull of import, but for a time'she seemed to have lost the power o expression. "Addie," she said, kindly and gently, and then she paused again     158      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. still looking at her with earnest eyes, " if I could do as I would, you should be substantially repaid for all I owe you; but I'm tied, as I may say, and have only got a hand loose, and there it is. Let things go on a little while, and if it's in my power to better them, rely on me. I think it will be. I'll try, any way. I love 4 you, Addic!- and having given her hand, she now gave both arms around the trembling girl's neck, who, silent hitherto, utterecr one long, loud sob at the pressure, and sank down at the milliner's knees, and clung to them, and kissed her hands, and wept and laughed madly, wildly, unrestrainedly-- "For those words," she cried, " those blessed words, that some one in this wide, desolate world loves me!" "It looks like morning after a long, stormy night of rain,' said Mr. John Tracy, as Addie carried the breakfast tray into his room the morning after her release from duty by Miss Noral's bedside. "It's absolutely refreshing to see your face again, though lit is undeniably the worse for the late wear and tear of nursing." "You are very kind to be glad to see me, sir," said Addie, simply and gratefully ; " and I think little Cleopatra the cat was, too, though they say that cats have no affection." "If that muscular female in red calico ruled the feline destinies as she has done mine, I should call Cleopatra a monument of insensibility if she had evinced no feeling of joy." "Don't you like Kitty, sir?" asked Addie, in surprise. "I thought Kitty was liked by everybody, she is so very good." "Yes, I should say she must be good, but I retain the right to pronounce her horribly disagreeable." "About the breakfast?" questioned Addie. "About that, in connection with every thing else," assented the lodger. "She is superhuman in her ability to disguise the flavor of food, and as unyielding as a bronze figure to any amiable emo- tion." "That is all well-sounding talk," said Addie, severely, and somewhat flushed with anger. "You really mustn't speak s, for it is not true. Kitty is not exactly a fine cook, but she is faithful   1 \ - ADDIE'S FIRST GLIMPSE AT LOVE.        159 and affectionate, and would suffer herself to be burned alive to serve the ladies." "I should not'wish to suggest such a sacrifice," remarked Mr. Tracy, in-atone that by no means disapproved of its utility; " but it seems a pity that these faithful creatures could not be f some practical use to those they worship; -they are generally so abomin- ably unpleasant to the rest of the world." "Here is a dish of toast, sir," said Addie, shortly; "and if there is any thing else, please tell me now, for I'm going down to get Kitty something to eat: she must be hungry, since it's quite late for breakfast." "There is nothing, positively nothing," cried Mr. John Tracy; "you have furnished every thing but the appetite, a voracious edition of which I have on hand, ready to go into operation." Addie stood, napkin in hand, beside the window, looking down into the street. "Oh! there's Miss Farron's carriage," she said, "and I musl run down and give her Miss Debby's message."     I Up sprang Mr. John T'acy, regardless of his avowed appetite thrusting aside his broiled steak as something grown suddenly dis tasteful, and rushed towards the window too. gddenly control ling himself, under Addie's glance of surprise, he whistled, and walking over to the mantlepiece, took up the paper. Addie acknowledged her observation of this erratic conduct by a slight elevation of her eyebrows; but being on bad terms witl the actor at present, on account of his inappreciative remark, about Kitty, she retired in silence. Miss Farron was waiting alone in the parlors. Miss Det by had not yet arisen, owing to a nervous headache, and Miss Tod wa, too busy with the workroom cares to be able to take her rlace ih the showroom.  The handsome girl was walking up and dowi leisurely, in front of a cheval glass, glancing at the sweep of he] elegant robes, and setting a fold right, here and there, as she passed. "If you will please excuse Miss Debby this morning, and leav( your order with me, it will be a great favor," said Addie, wh( "t     160      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. stood unobserved at her side. "She has been so much disturbed about her sister, Miss Norah, that she is really unwell." "Oh!---ah!-yes-I believe Miss Le Roy has been sick-she is better, is she not? But it don't signify, if that girl is hern who made me the bouquet before. I want just such a combination in different colors: if you cal arrange it, Miss Le Roy's illness will not matter in the least." "I think-I can-at least I will tell Miss Tod, the forewoman, if you will mention the colors." "Yes, to be sure.  You will do it very cleverly, I dare say. And pray don't send in strange girls; it's such a bore to make one's self understood by new people." She threw herself on a lounge, and using her sunshade to trace out her design on the car- pet, went on- "I want a centre flower, of scarlet-say a cactus, or a poppy blossom.  Then I want buff and brown and purple in smaller flowers-I don't care exactly what, but make the leaves shining and dark green-so that there will be a good background for the bloom. You understand. I'll wait till you see what can be done; but pray don't look stupid, and give me the trouble of repeating it all." "I was thinking," said Addie, slowly, and still looking at her steadily; "but I remember what you have said, and if you wait a little while I'll bring you back word about it." Ilaving said this, she went into the workroom to deliver the message to the distracted Miss Tod, who, deprived of Miss Debby's constant aid and counsel, had discovered her position to be a very arduous one, and no sooner received this new straw to her camel's burden than her patience gave way, and she cried out to the ffect that she wished Miss Farron and her unseasonable order in ilayti. "She's a pest, so she is," continued the distracted milliner; "here are the Whites' bonnets promised for to-night, and only three ready for the show-case out of nine that are positively to be done, by hook or crook, before the first of November. Oh, bother Miss Farron and her fussy nonsense!" "If I may try, I think I know what she means," said Addie,   ADDIE'S FIRST GLIMPSE AT LOVE.       161 shyly. "I suited her once before, and I'd like to make the attempt ^t  again." Miss Tod looked up from her task of slip-stitching a silk front, F  .and admonished her not to mess up the delicate things, while she accorded her permission "to take a try at it, till she got this work out. of her own hands." !     'Three large boxes of new French flowers lay open on the work- table; and in a glass show-case at one end of the room, a dozen more, partially emptied, were ranged one above the other. Addie looked them all over before making a selection from any, and then she went carefully to work separating such buds as struck her fancy, till she found all but the scarlet flower.  I want something, but I don't know the name of it--i has a deep, rich coral red." There are the geraniums, if that's the box you mean,"' answered Miss Tod. "Fish geranium is a full red flower." "Yes, but that isn't it; no, nor these poppies-they're too dull. Oh,. I know now, they are pomegranate blossoms, and here they are. Now please fasten these the right way, and I'll show you how I think she wants them." After a critical and somewhat unbelieving glance or tw6, Miss Tod yielded and followed the novice's directions, fastening the stems securely together, and forming the bouquet artistically. "I declare," she said, as it was completed, quite surprised into admiration by its effect-"I declare if it isn't perfectly beautiful. Why, Addie, you may give up scrubbing and rubbing in the kitch- en, and make your fortune trimming bonnets like the rest of us." A little flushed by this approval, Addie held the arrangement ;i /  of flowers at arm's length, and glanced at it, not without conscious pride in its perfection. Then she laughed a short triumphant ha I ha! and confessed that it did look lovely. "But I must run in with it, for she's so lofty and feelingless this morning, that I should not wonder at any thing she might do or say if she were kept too long waiting." To avert such an unknown calamity, Addie made haste across the intervening hall, but stopped suddenly at the open back parlor     162      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. door, for the cheval mirror reflected the astounding vision of Miss Farron, the haughty and unapproachable in a gentleman's arms. No longer the Miss Farron of Addie's knowledge, but a clinging tearfill trembling girl, unconscious of her tost head-dress, her strange position, the open door, and possible scrutiny; uncon- scious of every thing but the face she looked up to so fonlly, and the form she clung to so ardently. "Oh, John, John!" she was saying, in tender reproach ' here so long, and I not know it! how can I forgive you?" "It is so wretchedly mean and dishonorable to win a man's daughter whose enemy I am, that I do not dare to defelnd myself under any charge," he returned, sadly; " but heaven knowS, I am guilty of no want of truth to you.5' Addie flew back into the workroom, and opening the door, closed it behind her with a bang. When she reached the hall again, Mr. John Tracy stood bowing and smiling before Miss Farron, who, turning towards him with the most perfect composure, said-  "Oh, pray, give me the benefit of your taste in this affir. I want to know whether this sort of thing is the idea for an autumal head-dress." "It is very pretty, and suggestive, too, I should say. Well, Addie, you see I am recognizing a friend in the young lady whose carriage you announced a little time ago." "Yes, sir," said Addie, respectfully; and, turning to the lady, she asked: "Is there any thing you want changed or added, Miss Farr6n?" "Yes-no-let me look again. It pleases me entirely, and is perfectly beautiful." "Then I will tell Miss Tod to send it as it is?" "Yes; and add a few yards of that broad peach-.blossom rib- bon, and some white blonde lace." "  Yes, Miss." "And don't mistake the shade; and let me have them in time for my hair-dresser to arrange." Then gathering up her rich shawl into place, she swept out,   ADDIE'S FIRST GLIMPSE AT LOVE.       163 attended by the new lodger to her carriage, at the window of which he paused to say a few words, which were eagerly listened to by the beautiful girl he addressed. What a wonderful thing," said Addie to herself, in an awe- struck whisper, " what a wonderful thing is love! Nothing else in the world ever could soften that cold and beautiful woman, and "it has made her a slave!" Almost mechanically she turned to the great mirror, and looked long and earnestly at her own face, paler now than ever, and dis- proportionately large-eyed. I shall never be loved," she sighed sadly, "pccause I am not lovely. Oh, what a wonderful and what a terriblpower it is!" A little sound, between a purr and a mew, attrac ed her atten- tion, and looking down, she caught sight of poor Cleopatra, im- patient for her delayed breakfast, winding her way in amongst the boxes and cases of new goods that Were ranged about the door, waiting for Miss Debby to be sufficiently restored to business duties to unpack. "   Oh, pussie dear," said Addie, between laughing and crying II had better far have kept my heart divided between you and Kitty. I wish I could feel as devoted to you as I did a few months lgo, when I was willing to risk my neck to save one of your race irom ill usage. I shall never climb and scramble as I used to do, again." And Addie was right. The last month or two had transferred her life from childishness to womanhood, and she was no more a whimsical, thoughtless creature, full of grotesque, absurd fancies, but a being of awakened memories and strong desires.     164      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. CHAPTER XIX. ADDIE'S PROGRESS. ONE morning, a few weeks later, when the fall and winter sea- son had commenced in earnest, and Miss Norah, pale and ghastly with her late illness, and wrapt in shawls, was making an attempt to resume her old place in the show-room, Miss Tod came late to work, and announced as the cause of her detention a fearful acci- dent that had nearly happened to the unlucky Bob. "It was the narrowest escape in the world," she said; "for if it hadn't been that Mr. Mack, by the merest chance, was at hand, and caught him, he would have gone neck and heels over the roof of a three-story house, where they were fixing water-pipes." "I'll tell you what," said Miss Debby, looking up suddenly- "I'll tell you what, Margaret, there's no use trying to make a mechanic of Bob till he learns to keep his fingers out of danger. Suppose you let him come here and take his chances with us. In a year or so we may be able to recommend him to the merchants, and who knows what Bob may come to yet?" "I did not know that we needed any one," said Miss Norah, in faint surprise, while Miss Tod stood considering the question. "We- do need some one," returned iMiss Debby; adding, with dogged determination, "I am going to have Addie up in the work- room  just as soon as T can possibly accomplish it, and if Bob Tod will come, she shall begin to-morrow." Miss Norah's surprise deepened into displeasure. "You have odd ideas of your own, Debby," she said, "and one  a of them is to take that girl out of the place she naturally belongs to.  It has had its effect on her already, too, for she goes about looking as wise as an owl, and as solemn and self-important too." "Oh, for shame, Norah!" cried Miss Debby, flushed and dis- tressed rather than angry. "You are unkind, and ungrateful too ; but it don't matter--the girl has my promise, and I'll keeD it.   ADDIE'S PROGRESS.          135 Margaret, ask your mother to bring Bob up here to-morrow, alnd see if I can't makeit- worth his while to change." Perhaps it was -Mrs. Tod's predisposition towards the Le Roy family which rendered such a task easy of accomplishment, or it may have been that Miss Debby's promises of future advancement in mercantile life fired her ambition in her son's behalf. At any rate, Master Bob appeared in the establishment as an inmate before the week was over, and having agreed and covenanted to do all the errands, besides rendering Kitty all due assistance in his power, was installed in office. Addie appeared in the workroom as an apprentice the next morning, as calmly as if she had held the position for years, ard, taking up her place between Miss Tod and Miss Debby, commenced covering an old frame with muslin, for practice, as deftly as if she were an acknowledged adept in the trade. Kitty Donahue shared AMiss Norah's strong objections to this proceeding, and did not, like her mistress, conceal the same ; for on Addie's going down at meal-time, she hailed her with much asperity-- "Yer a purty one to be cocked up wid airs ; troth, I think Miss Debby's not actin' up to her sinse and raison.  Sure that young imp, Bob Tod, will destroy us all wid breakin' and tearin'; and here I am, widout a hand put to any thin', but just running after him to see that he don't ruin us intirely.' "Then I'll help you for an hour, Kitty. Miss Debby says she won't be ready for me till then." "Och, no," said Kitty, bitterly; "yer in yer best, and maybe ye'd spile yer purty clothes. Orra, but it's poor times whin the ladies have to look to the kitchen for people till help in the business." Perfectly unmoved by these remarks, Addie eyed her late frienYd quietly but steadily, and said, in a determined tone- "Now, Kitty, you will please to speak more kindly, and not do your own good-natmre the injustice of being so disagreeable. Miss Debby is helping me so  that I may learn to help myself, and I mean to be grateful and thankful to her all my life ; but I will rot endure your talking so, because there is no reason that I shoul d" "The dear help us," exclaimed: Kitty, in mock astonishment,     166      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "yer beginning to set us all down. Well, well, and what will we comllle to, any way?" But, though Kitty affected to be injured and indignant, she evi- dently found it best to keep quiet, for Addie's aid was not to be despised. She liad been growing handier and quicker every day, and now made short work of cleaning and setting the table, and hurrying up .dinner; at which Kitty, whose work was very apt to get the better of her, could in no wise demur. Then it seemed that Addie's. position was a new incentive to labor with her. She had always been ready and willing, though not quite reliable in execution. But now she rose betimes, and set the parlors in order better than her joint efforts with Kitty used to accomplish the same end. Then she prepared and served Mr. John Tracy's breakfast before taking her own and taking her place in the workroom. At noon she would put on an apron, and assist Kitty throughll her difficulties, all growing out of an increasing and mortal antipathy to Bob Tod and his works. And certainly the relief she gave that injured creature in listening to her woes. should have won her heart, independent of more substantial assistance. Kitty, by degrees, became used to the change, and acknowledged it rather than longer rebel, though it cost her some severe strug- gles; as for instance when Miss Debby replenished the scanty ward- robe of the new apprentice out of Mr. Tracy's breakfast money, and purchased a dress and winter cloak, with a plaid trimming, and, to finish with, gave her blue satin to make a bonnet, and showed her how to do it. These aggravating signs of favor and expenditure only dis- tressed Kitty, because she feared they exhausted the scanty treas- ury of the ladies, as her objection to Addie's elevation had sprung entirely from her dislike to the increased outlay of keeping a boy. In her own heart she liked Addie as sincerely as she could like any one outside the absorbing object of her fealty, " the ladies ;" but to them and theirs every other created being was so subordinate, that the absurdity of other claims was beyond her endurance. She had yet to bear another provocation, which was made known to her by Addie incidentally.   :I;:            A  3DDlE'S PROGRESS       .167 "Kitty," said she, one cold night in the first month of winter, "when- you go to the Doyles next Tuesday, will you please let me go with you? I want to see old Mr. Christy in winter-time. He seems to belong to the season." "Ill maybe not go for a week or two, Addie; and I'll tell ye why"7 said Kitty, agreeably and confidentially. "Ye see o-ild Christy's an ould neighbor of me own, from the very door wid me, and I would like to give him a remimbrance now that the couIld weather has set in--a good, warrum, flannel-lined coat, or a gcod thick pair ov shoes, maybe." "I That is like you, good, kind Kitty,7 said Addie, earnestly. - N'ow you see why I want to learn how to earn money. It an do so much, and without it you can only wish good deeds." "Yes, thrne for ye," assented Kitty; "an' I would ask no more of Heaven nor the power of puttin' thim I owe it to above anl^ beyant want and throuble.'- Eere she sighed deeply and shook her head ; for, as Addie well knew, the sickness of Miss Norah, with its consequent expenses, had reduced the household to comparative poverty. "Well, the reason I asked to go with you to see Mr. Doyle on Tuesday," continued Addie, as a change to the melancholy shede that began to steal over Kitty's face, " was because I am going to school next week, and then I shall not be able- to go anywhere else.  Kitty dropped the dishCloth she held and opened her mouth in amazement, but did no^eak for a moment or two, so great was her astonislunent. ' Goin' to school," at length rS ehlmured--" goin' to school! Orra, what will be the ind of sich om's nd Miss Debby, to my sartin knowledge, has gone and sold her sable cape and muff that belonged to her aunt, the counsellor's lady." Sinking into a chair, overcome by this terrible picture, KiAty / gave way to bitter reproach.  "Och, ye should fale like . criminal, and take shame to yersilf, so ye should! The swate lady, that was born to iligant fortune,  ': havin' to sell the clothes off her back, ar' ye goin' off to be eddi- 'AgArai gs     168      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. cated wid the money. Ye'r a hard young sarpint, so ye are, to drive her to sich a coorse.' Addie's face grew scarlet under this accusation; but she recov- ered herself instantly, and said, coldly- "You're wrong, Kitty, as you generally are of late. I am not going to be educated on Miss Debby's money, but by my own earnings.7' "Och, nonsnse! Ye'r own arnings! Ye stuck-up young both- eration, what are ye talking about?" "Mr. Siebert has bffered to pay me for making cushions for him, out of the bits of,gay silk left in the workroom. He would have to buy them, he says, and pay much more for them, besides not getting them so good." "Is it pin-cushions? What would he want with so many? I don't belave he's in arnist." "Oh, yes he is ; for it was he who engaged the teacher, and he has explained so much to me that I don't believe I shall find learn- ing at all hard." "Ye'r larned enough for all the good it'll do ye-that's what I'm thinking. Och, Addie I ye'r striving to set yersilf up forninst the ladies as an aquil, and it'll bring ye no good-mind my words for it." Thus it fell out that Addie's second step in life brought her lower in the opinion of her old friend ; and whenever an exhibition of her skill occurred, it was received by that prejudiced creature with great bitterness and acrimony, as another sign of assumption on her part. Still, despite Kitty's open objection, and Miss Norah's silent but palpable influence, to school Addie went every evening of the week, and earnestly and completely did she apply herself to study. To be sure, she grew paler and paler, and more and more weird-like in her appearance ; for her life at this season was a severely busy one. Up in the morning early as the light, she worked at sewing and tidying till after breakfast, and then was ready to take her place in the workroom. Afternoon, indeed, through Miss Debby's interference, was less slavishly employed; for beyond a little   ADDIE'S PROGRESS.          169 arrangement of the goods, and a volunteer assistance to Kitty, she had nothing to do but look over her lessons and work at Mr. Sie- bert's strange fancy for cushions. At present it was an elaborate sofa-pillow, made of six-sided bits of brilliant silk and velvet, basted, over tiny pieces of writing-paper, and then stitched neatly and tastefully together. It was not for his own rather faded lounge, Mr. Siebert con- fessed, but he expected to dispose of it, when completed, so advan- tageously as to warrant his paying Addie well for the work. This, and occasional advice in arranging the colors, was all Mr. Siebert had to say about the matter, except to urge its perfection; and industriously did Addie work on it, developing such exquisite com- binations of shades in the patches as to fill her with great pride and delight iD her handiwork. Kitty declared secretly to Miss Norah that " thim that set her on to fale above her station had been the clean ruin of the child; for," she continued, "she's no more the happy, aisy crayture, ready to fly from one turn till another, and making work a com- plate divarsion. Now she's a born quane." And truly KittIy's views of the -case were not groundless. Addie was no longer the little cricket or monkey. M!r. Siebert and the workroom acknowledged that. She would laugh as heart- ily or work as cheerily, but she had an undertone now that echoed in every word. If the kitchen door opened, she listened with a thoughtful face, dreading, yet hoping, to hear Dick Lavaridge's voice, for the idea of what he might tell her never left her mind; and if any one' spoke suddenly beside her, she would start and change color, as if dreading that the secret compact they had made sshould be revealed. She had learned that she was without education and without -i   beauty, and the knowledge pained her, as it discovered tastes that should belong to both one and the other. She had her own expe- rience in the past that her youth and buoyancy had weakened, but which thought and experience were nurturing into strength again. She was conscious, being keenly observant, of Miss Norah's -:  strange distrust, that was not entirely dislike but rather constant                   8 ... :ai(      170      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. avoidance, with a little touch of fear, and she combatedl it in every way that could suggest itself to her mind. Being so frank that any concealment was painful to her, she once said to Miss Debby: "Will you please tell me, Miss, why your sister don't like me now? She used to be so kind, though not often noticing me, or speaking to me, I confess." "Oh, Addie, don't bother yourself about that," Miss Debby a nswered, hastily. "lIt's all the greatest nonsense. You gave her all the medicine she took, and the taste of it turned her against you, just a trifle. Wait till she gets it entirely out of her mouth, and she'll forget all about it, I'll warrant you." Miss Debby laulghed as she said this; so did Addie, and after- wards there was an increase of kindness in the manner of the younger sister, as there always was when any want of considera- tion was visible in the elder's. Dick Lavaridge appeared no more, and winter wrore on to spring. Such a hard, rasping winter, too; and so unaccountably so to Addile, who saw the amount of work done and the small expendi- ture entered into. Mr. George Campbell had made a visit of protest about Christ- mas, insisting that the sisters should resign all work and miserly botheration, and come and stay with him for a time; but Miss Norah, to whom Debby devolved the arrangement of the answer, assured him it would be utter ruin to their business, and tried in a faltering way to explain that it was entirely impossible to make more than a living, where materials were so high and expenses so great. Whereupon Mr. George Campbell flow into a passion with his delicate cousin, and roundly declared that such miserable parsi- monv never would flourish. "You'll be in a bad way before you die, in spite of your slavish meanness, Norah, and Debby too," he exclaimed as a parting benediction. "My wife is ashamed to have it said that her hus- band's cousins are drudging away at bonnet-making for a living, and IPm shre I don't blame her. It's too hard to seem as if you had no family feeling, all owing to the perverseness of a pair of   ADDIE'S PROGRESS.          171 self-willed, close-fisted old maids-yes, old maids, for it's that you're coming to, as fast as you can, being too niggardly to trust your fortune to' a man." Poor Miss Norah murmured something about independence, and said she knew it seemed odd, but by and by they would be better able to accept such polite invitations, and do themselves the honor. Then she timidly sehit her love to Mrs. George, whom she hoped to see before long. "Keep your love to yourself, Norah, till you canll come with it. Patty won't have it unless you do ; and why should she? You know what a poor thing she is to go out, and you never come near her or me; till I'm tempted to give you the back of my hand and the sole of my foot, as the saying is." Without exactly arriving at that dreadful alternative, Cousin George Campbell went away in any but an amiable mood with his two unhappy relatives, and they being literally worked to death, had not caught from their labor the time to make a propitiatory visit for a month past. Although nothing had been seen of Dick Lavaridge, Addie felt sure that Kitty's regular expeditions, after any amount of bills fell due, tended in that direction. Poor Miss Norah's face would look worried and pale until after her return from these errands, and then a long closeting of all three would take place, from which none of'them would come out without bearing signs of trouble in their faces. Feeling conscious of Miss Norah's distrust, she would never show any interest or seem even aware of what was passing on these occasions. Still, she knew every movement or glance by intuition, that betokened new trouble in the household, or an awakening of the old. Mr. John Tracy was not a steady lodger, though in every way desirable even on that account. For weeks he would be absent, although his bills were paid as regularly as if he were in receipt of their hospitalities; and Addie, through Miss Debby's intervention, was able to devote much unoccupied time to her personal advan- tage. The great cushion was completed for Mr. Siebert, who  .,     172      TEN YEARS OFP A LIFETIME o reported his own immediate success ill finding a purchaser for it, and dwelt largely on the necessity for more being made at the same price. Addie wondered not a little at the readiness with which the disposal had been made, and still more at the handsome price which had repaid her pleasant efforts. One day, as she was consulting the artist about a new arrangement of colors, a tap at his door announced the visit of Mr. Farron, who this time stood on the threshold so as to hinder her escape. With a smiling and courtly air, he acknowledged her presence, and begged to know if she had seen any new pictures lately about which she had formed an opinion. The artlessness of Addie's past manner evidently held some charm in his remembrance of her, but he looked in vain to discover it in her now. She had learned to be silent, and answered his kindly invitation to confidence in a few timid syllables, unlike her former volubility. He looked surprised and puzzled, and turned to Mr. Siebert with a half glance of inquiry. "Our young friend is a student now," said Mr. Siebert, answer- ing the look; "there is so much to be learned when we once be- gin, that the prospect makes us serious. Those who set us going on the up-hill path should consider these things." "Aye, ayg, to be sure," assented the visitor; " it is a, pity some paths should be so laborious. Could not the weight be lessened, since a burden nust be borne?" "Things go best that involve least change, and sudden elation injures more than quiet, steady toil," said the artist, producing a little sketch, just completed, and displaying it in a proper light for hi. patron's approval. As he advanced to get a better view of the painting, Addie stole out behind Mr. Farron with an embarrassed curtsey; by way of leave-taking. "Is the young gentleman staying here now?" asked Mr. Farron, as the door closed behind her.  "-le stays here while he is in the city; but I believe he is very busy disposing of some scattered real estate, previous to a journey to Europe." "Then he is going abroad," said the other, slowly and medita-   FATHER AND DAUGHTER.          173, tively. "I thought his uncle would make a settlement for him here." "Mind you, I am saying what I don't know to a certainty, and I really ought not to give it for a fact; but I gather that he and his uncle have disagreed for the hundredth time, and Mr. John, by this gathering in of such capital as he stands possessed of, means to make a start on his own account, in connection with some foreign business house with which he is in correspondence." "And he means to go abroad," repeated Mr. Farron, still mu- singly. "Yes, that is positively his intention; the rest I have only guessed at, and retail to you as my own surmise, without a breach of confidence." Mr. Farron cleared his throat, and pondered over the words as he repeated them: "To Europe-,positively going abroad-" and although the little scene to which the painter directed his atten- tion was indeed a gem in its way, by far surpassing any former at- tempt by the same hand, he looked at it absently, and seemed more occupied with the prospective intentions of Mr. John Tracy than by the work of art in whose early progress he had shown much interest. CHAPTER XX. FATHER AND DAUGHTER. "CoorE here, Addie," said bMiss Norah, suddenly putting her head in the workroom door, one morning within a fortnight after Mr. Siebert had spoken of Mr. Tracy's possible travels. It was the first time she had voluntarily summoned her for months, and Addie sprang up joyfully at the sound. She loved Miss Norah and her sister with a different affection: for the former there was a sort of mournful reverence, mingled with fondness; for the latter but one feeling swayed her heart- deep, grateful, unquestioning devotion.  .     174      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. She had never, in her most secret thoughts, blamed the elder sister for her coldness, though she had been proportionately grate- ful to the younger for her warmth. Now, there was something in the tone of the summons that gave her hope that lie cloud of distrust or displeasure was passing away, and she obeyed it with delight. Miiss Norah had gone back to her station in the parlors imme- diately after summoning Addie, and there she found her, exceed- ingly busy with a small account-book and a sheet of note-paper. She looked up, hearing her enter, and said- "Yes; I want you to go up to Bellingham Square. Bob Tod cannot attend properly to what I wish, so I beg that you'll ar- range your work with Miss Debby so as to go at once." Her manner had no expression whatever, and Addie could not guess whether her being employed again was being taken into favor or the contrary. Without questioning herself, she instantly obeyed, and in a mo- ment or two stood, ready equipped for walking, before Miss Norah, who had folded her note-paper into note form and directed it to Miss Julia Farron, Bellingham Square. "And mind that you don't give it to any one else," she said, warningly. "I could have risked, Bob Tod, if it had not been so particularly necessary that no one should receive it but her." "Yes, Miss Norah."' "And if she speaks to you on the subject, you can say that our merchants' bills press us very much just now, and that we are obliged to make heavy payments this quarter." "Yes, Miss Norah." "Stop a moment, she may be displeased, and it is to prevent that that I send you. I suppose you can manage better without directions than with, if you wish to, and remember how necessary it is that you should bring back a ready and agreeable answer." This time Addie bowed her head without speaking, for she was puzzled by the trust imposed on her in so unyielding and ungra- cious a manner : the uniformly gentle lady looked almost severely on her as she spoke, yet withal betrayed so great a reliance on her abilities as to fill her with surprise.   FATHER AND DAUGHTER           175 6C Don't lose time," said Miss Norah, as a parting charge; and obedient to this warning, clddie made short work of the distance, and soon arrived at the elegant neighborhood of the Square. "Iiss Farron is at home," answered the respectful colored man; a but I think she is engaged. Step in, and sit down, while I inquire n The room into which shle was ushered communicated by folding-- doors, partly closed, with an inner apartment, and was fitted up with books, pictures, and easy-chairs, into an elegant reception- room. As she sat down, she became conscious of some one hur- riedly pacing the carpet on the other side of the partition, and thrusting aside chairs or ottomans that impeded his way. Pres- ently the door on that side opened, and some one came in so softly that no footstep sounded, and nothing beyond- the rustle of silk was heard. "Julia," said the impatient gentleman, addressing the new-comer sternly, "what is the meaning of this underhand business? Why do you stoop to such detestable concealment, when it is so un- worthy of you?" It was Mr. Fairon who spoke, and his voice sounded harsh and unnatural from excitement. His daughter made no haste to reply; and when she did speak, her tones betrayed neither nervousness nor fear. "After breaking out so strangely and inexplicably, you will, per- haps, be good enough to tell me what you mean, sir!" Another turn or two among the impeding furniture, and Mr. Farron paused agaia to begin- l' You are packing trunks and planning some escapade or othei-- that you will not attempt to deny; and now I want to know the meaning of the whole absurd story." "You are right to say that I will attempt to deny nothing, sir; and as I have nothing to tell, you will, perhaps, allow me to gro. Some one is waiting to see me on business.? There can be no business more important than the present," cried Mr. Farron, still angrily, and I insist on a sensible explana- tion of your late proceedings, in my natural right as your father." There was a moment's pause after this. "As my mother's husband," repeated Miss Farron, in a slow, ,:!M     176      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. measured tone, as one well aware of the weight and impression of her words. The pause that succeeded this announcement was longer than the one which went before it, and neither of the speakers seemed to stir in the dead stillness of the room. When Mr. Farron spoke, his voice was changed and somewhat broken, and his whole manner seemed bowed with feeling. "I declare before heaven, my dear girl," he said, solemnly, "that I never meant you to know, much less to feel it. I have striven with my whole soul to know and do a father's duty, and show a father's love. Who ever told you this was your enemy and mine." "Yours, perhaps-certainly not mine," she said, coldly. "I am stunned, and beyond measure distressed, by-by what you have told me. I would do any thing in my power if those words never had been spoken. Julia, if you had known your mother, you would never have uttered them." "It is painful and a folly to say more," she said, quietly; " but if I have chosen a separate path, I will walk in it without permit- ting any interference of your prejudices." "My prejudices?" he repeated. "Your dislikes, whims, antipathies, or whatever else you choose to call them." He seemed to stand still, regarding her in astonishment, for his voice indicated the feeling, as he asked- "Is it because of my-my prejudice in any case, that you conceal your plans or movements from me?" ' I have spoken of none," she said, determinedly, " and will not be driven into making a confession." Then she seemed to stand defiantly silent for a moment or two, and, meeting no further re- mark, went slowly from the room. A few minutes past, and not a sound came from the one she had left behind her. Then the waiter opened the door, and beckoned Addie to follow him up-stairs. In the same room, where she had seen her on the occasion of her former visit, Miss Farron now lay back in her elegant easy-chairt tapping a velvet cushion with her beautiful little foot.   FATHER AND DAUGHTER.          1" "It is the milliners' girl, is it?V she said, yawning slightly, and putting aside a magazine that she had not been looking into. ' It is a note from Miss Le Roy," said Addie, briefly, and pre- sented the tiny epistle. Miss Farron took it, and twirled it over in her fingers. "What should they wish to say to me, I wonder?" she said, slightly smiling. Carelessly opening it, she glanced up and down its contents, and then frowned suddenly. "What do these people mean?" she demanded, threateningly, of Addie.  "I told Miss Le Roy I did not want this account now. I -expressly stated my wish in the matter, and I certainly expect to be obeyed." "Miss Le Roy regretted the necessity verv much indeed," be- gan Addie, in a mechanical tone, and'-she carefully repeated every syllable of the excuse Miss Norah had committed to her, but with- out the least desire to propitiate the angry beauty. As she was speaking, her eye rested on a rich lounge under the window, at the head of which was placed the identical cushion that had been the occupation of her mornings and evenings for a month to construct. As the familiar pieces of brocade and velvet caught her glance, she paused in her monotonous excuses, and looked as- tonished and lost in thought. Miss Farron had commenced to be indignant again, and had assumed a'lofty tone of displeasure at the absurd desire of the mil- liners to be paid, when, perceiving that the attention of the mes- senger was not entirely hers, she stopped and regarded her with mute surprise. "May I beg you to attend," she said, after an instant's silence. "Please carry back a message for me; I am not disposed to take the trouble to write. Say that I am perfectly astonished at such Just at this instant a tap came to the door. "Open it," she said to Addie, who, doing so, disclosed Mr. Farron in a black vel- vet dressing-gown, looking white and worried, and evidently sur- prised at seeing her there.     178      TEkN YEARS OF i LIFETIME. "I will detain you but a moment, Julia, but I must speak with you before I go out," he said. "I will go, then, Miss Farron," said Addie, "and you told me to say that you were astonished at such--" "Pshaw! you stupid little creature!" said Miss Farron, con- fusedly, "I told you no such thing. Wait an instant, and I will give you the money. Pray excuse me an instant, sir ;" and she hurried across the room with unusual alacrity, and opened a drawer in an inlaid work-table. Without referring to the account, she told out the money in Addie's hand. ' Forty dollars and fifty cents, and you can bring me a receipt when you come a-gain," she said. She nodded by way of dismissal to the girl, who was only too anxious to be gone. As she flew along on her homeward way, she reasoned with herself: "She was angry only because she was interfered with; she had plenty of money in that box, but she didn't mean to pay AMiss Norah h; she distressed her father, or the gentleman who had been as good as a father to her, and she is not grateful, and she is not true." How to account for her success to Miss Norah, without betray- ing the knowledge she had obtained surreptitiously of the family affairs of the Bellingham Square household, sle was at a loss to determine, till, after a moment's hesitation, she resolved to give the cash to her employer without remark, and answer any question on the subject cautiously. "For," as she concluded, " she will never come here again, I am sure ; she means to go away and do some- thing strange." Miss Norah's heart was rejoiced at the sight of tne money-so much so that she asked no questions about its receipt, but grasped it eagerly with a half audible thank heaven! "I shall be gone all day to-morrow," she said, as Addie turned to go into the workroom. "I need a little air and change, as any one can see, so there's nothing strange in my going out for a day." Addie stopped on her way out and stood still, considering her- self addressed in these remarks. Miss Norah looked at her cov- ertly, in a way she did not like, as she said this about her pro-   EISS NORAH'S HOLIDAY.         179 posed absence, and so Addie merely returned the glance with an open look, frank but self-assertive, and waited. Poor Miss Norallh -she was a miserable actress, and the effort she made to appear hard and careless broke down in the beginning, and she changed color under the calm look of her late servant-maid. "V Will you take charge of the parlors, Addie?" she asked, in a different tone. "You know all about the work, and my sister dis- likes leaving the girl] to wait on customers." "Certainly, if you will allow me," said Addie, readily. "What- ever you tell me, I'll remember, and attend to as well as I can." "I know that, and I depend on you for this," she added, giving way to the old, distrsttful manner again, as if involuntarily. CHAPTER XXI. MISS NORAH'S HOLIDAY. To do greater honor to her assumed duties, Addie next morning, \ when her work was over, put on her best dress, with a new silk apron Miss Debby had given her, and descended in neat attire to receive Miss Norah's parting orders. That lady was dressed in her least presentable costume, and had a heavy black lace veil thrown over her black straw bonnet.- She was seated on a box by the hall-door, with a paper in her hand, on which she was hur- riedly writing in pencil. She rolled it up and thrust it in her pocket, as Addie said- "Here I am, Miss Norah, if you will please tell me any thing in particular that is to be attended to ;" and began to instruct her about finished work to be delivered, and the possibility of new orders being received. Addie took her instructions, and set her- self busily to workl dusting and putting to rights the furniture and arrangements of the parlor, and setting the ribbons straight in their cases. Miss Norah gathered her shawl about her shoulders, and drew down her veil, preparatory to setting out. As she did     $SO      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. so her purse fell from a side-pocket, and rolled heavily on the floor. It was almost full of gold. "Oh," she said, in a frightened way, clutching it up again, "that's my money for settling my bills. I may as well attend to it whilst I out as not." Addie gave no response to this remark, which was evidently addressed to her, and her employer departed with a frightened and flurried air upon her. "Is she gone?" asked Miss Debby, looking in after a time. "Ah, well, that's right, and you'll get along finely, Addie. It is not a busy day, and whatever you don't know about, I'll take time to show you." "Here is a mourning-bonnet and three black and white and purple ones. Do they all go to the same place?" asked Addie, poiuting to a range of bandboxes. "  Yes ; they're the Whartons, you know, but don't let Bob Tod blunder about it, as he'll be sure to do if he's trusted to carry a message. That mourning one is for Miss Alice, the young lady yon did so kindly by last year, and the family are incensed at her for keeping up full black when they have got over the depth of their grief.'" "It's too bad that she has to belong to them," cried Addie, her memory of the passionate mourner thoroughly revived. "She is a lovely lady, I know, and they are all cold-blooded creatures." "They're nice patrons, for they think of nothing so much as a perfect dress," said Miss Debby; " and they order two bonnets for almost any other customer's one. If it was not that the old lady is so difficult to suit, they'd be gems of people to us. That's the way of the world. Addie, people who work to suit the whims and follies of others get to look on them as legitimate prey, and the vainer and sillier they are the more we profit by them." With this scrap of selfish philosophy, Miss Debby departed to her own sphere, and Addie, seeing that every thing was in neat array, took out her patches, and began to devise more ornamental work to meet the demands of Mr. Siebert's unfailing customers. Mean- time she thought wonderingly whether Miss Farron could thus- rrrvvrrv            '.; LCIV VUW P   MSS NORAH S HOLIDAY.          181 known it was her work, and whether she had paid so good a price to encourage and assist her. "For she is so beautiful, that she must have some good in her nature," persisted Addie; "and she clung so lovingly to Mr. John Tracy, and looked so fondly up into his face, that she must have some affection in her soul, though she seems so unyielding, to that noble gentleman-her father." Her ruminations were interrupted by Mr. Tracy appearing in the doorway, having admitted himself by the latch-key, and being returned for the first time in a fortnight. "And how is Miss Perseverance?" he said, gayly, " and how much further has she gone on the rugged path that leads to the shining temple of knowledge?". "Oh, I'm glad to see you come back, Mr. Tracy," cried Addie, heartily, " and I've made these cushions, and learned quite a good deal in geography and history." Hearing this, he affected to fall back in astonishment and de- light, and predicted that she would become a Minerva before she had gone much longer to the "Select Evening Academy."  "As for me, my young pilgrim to the shrine of learning, I am about to become a hardened devotee in the cause of Mammon; I am about to throw my immense energies and small capital into the mercantile world, as a sea from which I intend to fish up a future fortune by means of that tiny bait." "H don't understand," faltered Addie; "do you mean   that you are going to risk your fortune in hopes to gain a greater one?" Mr. John Tracy produced from  the doorway a little but strong and heavy-looking portmanteau, and held it up to her survey. "That is the present receptacle of all the capital I possess," he said, with mock solemnity. "I  have sold a little place I had in Virginia, and another little place I had in Maryland,-both shreds of estate left me as sample of the whole, and about as useful as the patterns drygood clerks cut off for shoppers to carry home for ref- erence at their leisure. Yes, my young ally, this little affair holds all the cash, and I'm going to put it in bankable bills, and sail over the wide sea to make my fortune."     182      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "And leave us forever, Mr. Tracy?" faltered Addie, who really had grown attached to the gay and handsome youth. "Who can say what may happen in the next five years?" he answered. "I may come back with the train and grandeur of an Eastern prince; I may be so fortunate that I can afford to buy the State House, and turn it into a private residence. Perhaps I shan't come back at all, but send for everybody and make thenm inferior princes and princesses." "Oh!" screamed Addie, with a quick, terrified tone, and then hastily pressed her hand on her lips, and still panting as if from frigmht. "What is the matter? Did I frighten you?" exclaimed Mr. Tracy, coming forward, and dropping his valise heavily on the ground. "Please, tell me what I can do for you ; it was too, bad to startle you so; you're white, and trembling. Pray, tell me what it was?" "Nothing at all, nothing at all," cried Addic, and this was all she would say, strive as he would to gain an explanation. In a moment or two she had regained her usual manner, and was laugh- ing at the prospect of being so grand as Mr. Tracy promised to make her when he became a nabob himself; and then he went up- stairs. Addie flew to the hall, and listened, and as she heard him enter and close his own door after him, she dashed down-stairs at full speed and came into the kitchen at a breathless bound. Seated on a low stool, by the back-door, was Dick Lavaridge, smoking a short pipe, with his hands on his knees, and a ruminative countenance. "Where's Kitty?" cried Addie, in alarm; "where did you come from, and how did you get in?" "Sure, I come from up beyant,1' returned the placid smoker, "and I got in by the door as usual." "Wlly did you crawl up-stairs like a sneak and frighten me so?'" demanded Addie, passionately. "You're a wicked creature, and I will not be so haunted by you." "I was looking to see if I'd find any one around," said the lame   MSS NORAH'S HOLIDAY.         1183 man, laughing, and apparently much amused at the fright he had been able to give the girl. "Sure, ye shouldn't be so narvous-ilie. Her you and me knows of had the courage of a soldier, so she had." The poor girl changed color, and shuddered, as he said this. "You never kept your promise with me," she said. "You must wait a bit," said he-" all in good time. I didn't bind mesilf down to a day or an hour, you'll remember." Kitty came down the steep, brick steps, from the back yard, as he said these words; she had her shawl and bonnet on, and seemed out of, breath, besides, with the haste she had made. "Sorrow light on ye, is it here ye are!" she exclaimed angrily, whilst Addie, who had been standing in the doorway, escaped her notice. "If ye expict me to go over the country, from one ind to the other, ivery time ye sind for me, an' thin give me the slip, I'll pay ye back agin, if I live, ye deluding blackguard!" "I tuck a second thought, ye see, Kit," he answered, with a wink. "It's a long way to them parts, an' a body had nade of a long purse, ye see, whin they're so far away from frinds." i' Hould your clashin' tongue," cried Kitty, seeing Addie for the 'first time; " what nonsinse are ye invinting now? Sure, A ddie, yer laving the parlors to look to thimselves, it seems, and poor AIiss Norah trusting ivery thin' to ye." "Where is them there orful bothering bonnets?" asked the dis- contented voice of Master Tod, from the stairs above, with a strong emphasis of disapprobation on the headgear in question. "If I had my way with them Whartonses, if they didn't like 'enm, I'd just chuck 'em at 'em, and not send a fellow running hisself to death to git new bows and ribbons and things jes to please 'em." Uttering this protest in shrill disgust, he concluded by desiring that he might "start oust more with the confounded things, and have it over.') Addie ran up after him, and gave him sundry charges concern- ing the Safe delivery of all but the mourning-hat. "Let it be here till the young lady calls, for Miss Norah thinks she may have some suggestions to make about it; and, of course, it will only give you more trouble.        i     184      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "Oh, that ain't nothin', said Bob, with sarcastic bitterness. "Don't you fret about that--that's what they think I'm made for here. Miss Norall, she's allus a hollering at me, and Kitty, she's allus a rowing, and I'n blamed if I have a chance to dror my breath without them a ketclling me up suddint," "Oh, Bob, you know Miss Norah never talks loudly-she is so gentle always." "Oh, is she, though?" said the skeptical Bob, derisively; "only I don't think so-that's all. She don't come down on yer when ye ain't thinking nor nothing, and ketch ye up if ye jes stop to look at a organ a playing in the street, or set yer bundle down to talk to another fellow about yer marbles." Taking a box under each arm, Bob paused to give a deeply sig- nificant wink, after this confession of opinion, and had reached the door in the regular jog-trot motion he assumed on errands, when a thought suddenly striking him, he turned back- "Oh, I say, Addie, who's that there queer feller down-stairs, ye know?" he asked. "There's two of 'em always watching and prying around, and that there one's the chap what ast about ye that day, ye know." I don't know," said Addie, slowly; " they are known to Miss Norah and Miss Debby, I suppose--that is, they come here to see them; at any rate, it is no business of ours, Bob." "Oh, no, nothing ain't no business of ourn, 'cept running our legs off and gitting jawed for pay. I'm blamed if it wouldn't make a angel as cross as a Ingin to run a milliner's arrints.'" "Watching and prying," repeated Addie to herself, as Bob dis- appeared. "What on earth can they mean, and who are they? Poor Miss Norah would not enjoy her pleasuring much if -she knew that man, Dick Lavaridge, was here, for she hates and fears him, I know." "I called to see about my bonnet trimming," said a gentle voice at Addie's side, and instantly she recognized its tones as those of Miss Alice Wharton. Bob had left the hall-door ajar, and she had come in quietly, and now stood in deep mourning-robes, with a heavy veil thrown away from her pale, thin face. She had   NMSS NORAH'S HOLIDAY.         185 changed greatly in appearance since the day Addie had seen her last, and was-now wasted and colorless as an invalid. Her voice, too, was weak and broken, and altogether she seemed but a wreck of her former handsome young' self. "I remember you," she said, smiling kindly, " though I see you have forgotten me. I am but just getting well from a long, wear- ing sickness, which has changed me, I know." "Yes, Miss Wharton, you are changed," said Addie, "but I knew you perfectly. I was astonished at the difference so short a time had made-that was all." "You were kind and serviceable to me on the day of the com- mencement of my illness," said the young lady, gratefully. "Miss Bond, the dressmaker, told me about it, and I should have come long ago to thank you ; but, as I said, I have been ill." "Oh," said Addie, coloring with pleasure, "it is kind in you to remember me at all, I'm sure." A"You are changed, too, but so much for the better. You are growing tall, and look so-so--I can scarcely find the word, un- less it be-womanly." ," I have been very fortunate," said Addie, with frank confi- dence. 'u I have friends who are so good to me that they help me to improve in many different ways. I have been studying and learning a trade, too, which must have done something for me in be- havior as well, because Miss Debby says I'm becoming quite civilized." Miss Wharton looked a little surprised at this view of the case, and ventured to say that she must be very clever to do so much, and that she hoped she would be able to gain her highest ambition in both branches. "When I say Miss Debby speaks in that way, I don't mean to have you think that she regards me as barbarous at all, but she is merry and kind, and says-all sorts of funny things about everybody that she likes." "She should like you, and does, too, I'm sure; for Mary Brady, who lives with us, told me that you nursed Miss Le Roy carefully through that fever she had; and Mary said if it had not been for you she might have died."     186      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME, "I was very happy to be allowed help," said Addie, simply; "and have received a dozen times my due in kindness from Miss Deblby il return." "Is MAiss Le Roy away?" asked the young lady, glancing round as if she had just missed her. "She has never become very strong' since her long' illness," said Addlie; " and to-day she thoullght she would make a holiday2 and go away from care and the close confinemlent of these rooms." "Which was a very sensible thing for her to do, I'm sure. And will you please let me see my new bonnet, if it is finished?" Addie produced the box and took out the mourning-hat, repeat- ing, as she did so, Miss Norah's suggestions about improvements in the trimming, in case they should meet with her approval. "Oh! I don't care about the bows," said the young girl, with something of her former petulant grief in her tone. "It seems a horrible mockery to cavil about shades of sorrow. It don't mat- ter to me what I wear; and I'm sure I had as lief have it white as black, if it were not that the world accepts it as. a badge of mourning-and even to strangers I would show that our darling N'ellie cannot be forgotten." Addie drew the long bombazine ties slowly through her -fingers, and looked at the sombre bonnet sorrowfully but without speaking. "She was one who never could forget those who had once claimed her love. She was truth and fervor itself; her heart teemed with all high and noble emotions, and she, gave it away to a fool and a beast!" Rather startled at this announcement, Addie still preserved her silence, but raised her eyes from the bonnet and fixed them earnestly on the speaker. "And so I thank the merciful God, who took her home to Paradise," continued the passionate girl. "What do I value my own desolate grief, when I see what she has been spared? She died believing in him--oh! so fully, so completely, that she thought the grave could not divide them. She said to me-' Allie, I shall be with him always till he comes to me V But, thank God, there is neither marrying nor giving' in marriage up there! and the dar.   MSS lNORAH'S HOLIDAY.         187 ling -angel will never stoop to discover what a lying hound she worshipped!" "Yes," said Addie, slowly and thoughtfully, "I thought when, I saw him bowing in the hall that he was false and shallow.'" The young lady caught her hand eagerly. "Hate him with all your heart-despise him as I do-and I'll love you for it." She wiped a sudden wreath of sweat-drops from around her mouth, and looked very white and trembling as her excitement passed away. "We are to have a wedding in .the summer at our house," she said, laughing bitterly and then shuddering. "We are impatient for the months to fly by, and heartily sick of dull colors. My sister, having discovered that Colonel Leonard is utterly without truth or constancy, is offering herself as another victim; if some merciful fever does not strike her down and save her. There, do what you will about those ends of crape, it is quite sure to suit me; and if I can ever help you in your lessons, or any thing at all, come up to me. I trust you by your good, innocent eyes." So saying, she dropped the veil she wore over her face again, and, seizing Addie's hand, pressed it, and ran down the steps to where a plain dark-pannelled carriage waited her. While Addie yet stood holding the mourning-bonnet in her hand, Kitty came up the kitchen stairs and presented herself in the doorway. "Who is that that's just driving off?" she asked. "Miss Alice Wharton-you remember I told you about her, Kitty. She was so broken-learted about that lovely cousin of hers that died."          l "Troth, I mind it well; why shouldn't I, when Mary Brady has been in telling me that the beauty of a colonel she was to have married has made up wid the other sister, Miss Nettie, and they are going to be married as soon as they can have off the black? There's constancy for ye!" "He is a false, bad man," said Addie, angry at his very name. "There's plinty more like him," remarked Kitty, consolingly ; and continued--"Did you see yon half-witted crayture down-stairs?     188      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. Well, Addie, do you niver take notice of his quare nonsense- sure there's no harm in him, but jist the wakeness of his head." Addie gave no response, but looked questioningly at Kitty, as if expectinog soimething more. "So that's all about it; and ye naden't trouble your head any more bo   thering over the matter,' she continued. "T Why should I bother over it at all, do you think, Kitty?" asked Addie, with a searching look. "If I used to be curious, like an idle child, as I was, and asked foolish questions about things that didn't concern me, you always stopped me with a word; and you know that was enough. Now you act deceitfully with me, and watch me with suspicious looks. More than all, Kitty, you poison Miss Norah's mind against me, and make her think me a wicked, plotting, faithless creature!" As Addie thus gave vent to the pent-up troubles of her soul, her voice quivered, ,and ungovernable tears poured over her cheeks. Kitty had been her first friend in the household, and, although the world seemed opening a wide circle before her, she yet clung with strong attachment to the humble, homely figure that repre- sented the one friend of the past. Kitty herself seemed scarcely less moved-; her great broad face wrought curiously, and she drew the back of her hand across her eyes nervously. "Och, be aisy l" she cried, imploringly. "What puts such folly in yer mind? I'm not turned agin ye ; but I have only one duty, and that's due to thim I was born to sarve. If it ,was me own heart's blood that stood in their way, sure I'd be bound to shed it. It's no unkindness to ye, poor crayture; but the ladies is full of trouble, and they can't stop to take thought about the little capers of sich as you and me." "Miss Debby does stop and take thought of me," said Addlie, earnestly. "She has made me her devoted servant for life through her noble kindness; and-Kitty, understand me-I don't complain of Miss Norah, I would not take such a liberty, but I do complain of you, who are not true to our old friendship, nor above mean suspicion that is unworthy of so good a heart." Kitty was excited, and now she turned suddenly fierce; deep   UNCLE AND NEPHEW.       .[    9. lines gathered about her small dull eyes, and her large mouth hard- ened into an iron look of compression. "Do ye mind what I'm going to tell ye, Addie!" she exclaimed; "if ye was me own born child, and I saw ye prying and meddling wid what would bring trouble on thim I sarve, and knowed that yer sharp wits and yer sharp eyes was working wid their heart- sorrow, I'd swape ye out of their way, and out of the world; too, if ye druv me to it l"  Uttering this strange valedictory in a tone no less intense for its shrill suppression, Kitty turned on her heel and ran down to  er underground sphere, leaving Addie to digest the knowledge of the position her silly restlessness of mind and idle curiosity had placed her in before her late ally, Kitty Donahue. CHAPTER XXII. UNCLE    AND  NEPHEW. IT was very late that evening before Miss Norah returned from her holiday; and a weary, distressful air she brought with her, con- sidering her supposititious pleasuring. So completely overcome was she by her pursuit of enjoyment that she asked no questions relative to the day's events from Addi, but dropping into a  chair in the dimly lit bace parlor, begged for a  glass of wine before trying to move further., Mr. John Tracy had presented her with some bottles of old port, previous to his last trip, and from one of them Addie poured her a wineglassful, which she drank eagerly. "Now I'll go up to my bed," she said, " for I have not been out for so long that  I'm entirely worn out with the exertion I've had.' Disregarding all invitations to "thry a sup of tay," urged by Kitty, who had been " kaping the pot on the bile," according to her own account, for hours past, with a view to having realy that refreshment as soon as her mistress should appear, Miss Norah     190      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIBE. proceeded to go wearily up-stairs, without seeing Miss Debby, who, after a late day's work, was taking a bit of supper by the kitchen fire. There Addie joined her, and shared by invitation all egg and piece of bacon, much to Kitty's indignation, who had carefully prepared the meal, " not to pamper the likes of her," as she said, "but to give strength to the tired lady." For this night Addie was all unconscious of the wrath of the partisan, for Miss Debby seemed like one who had thrown off a load of care, disposed to cheerful converse and jollity. "I have to laugh, Addie," she said, leaning back and sipping her tea, "when I think of Bob Tod and the Whartons; he says they actually shook him for his stupidity about the message you sent." "Miss Alice was here, and she says that Miss Nettie is going to marry that dreadful man that pretended to be wild with grief for the loss of the poor lady who died." "I'm glad of it," said Miss Debby, "for it will be a good job for us, and I look to this year to set us right with our heavy ex- penses. That will be a nice bill; and Miss Nettie is the most endurable of the two, so he's as well off in getting her as he de- serves to be." "Why need he marry at all, when he has so lately lost his prom- ised bride?" "No need in life, but he has been promising himself for the last fifteen years to every beautiful girl that takes his fancy. When she didn't die he changed his mind or picked a quarrel-always one or the other: now he has fallen in with a family who have money enough to secure his constancy. They all have a fortune of their own, those girls." "I'm so glad Miss Alice is rich, for she will do good with her money, I know." "And the rest do good with theirs, though they don't mean it; at least any little penny that falls in our way does. So, long life to their marrying and ordering wedding bonnets." Miss Debby rose. "I'm going to bed early, as well as Miss   UNCLE   AND NEPHEW.         191 Norah," she said; " and, Kitty, when you come, see that every thing is fastened about the back door, and that the shutters are bolted." "It's .well ye spoke, Miss," cried Kitty, " for here's the bolt lost out of'the kitchen door, and I'm as sure as I'm living that I fixed it tight this morning.? "Oh, it has a way of falling out, you know," answered her mis- tress, slightingly. "Look round the floor there, beside the sink, and you'll find it quick enough." "Are ye going to yer bed too, Addie?" asked Kitty, as her mis- tress disappeared up the stairs. "No, Kitty, I'm going to learn my lessons. I had to miss school this evening, but I must not neglect the work, or I'll be left be- hind." So she tied on an apron and hastened to clean up the cups and saucers, and brush the floor free from crumbs. Then she spread out her books and took her slate and pencil beside the light, and  fell to work. Kitty made no objection to this arrangement, nor comment upon it, although, according to her usual custom, she regarded it with strong disfavor. Now, after sitting by the stove and brooding a space in silence, she rose, and stretching herself out, said : ' I think I'll go up and lay myself down on my bed for a nap. I'll be down again to fast- en up before I go into my bed for the night." "If you will leave it to me, I'll attend to it for you, and then you needn't come down again at all, Kitty.?" "I'll lave it to nobody but mesilf, and thin I'll know that it'll be well done," answered Kitty shortly, and retired. When she had gone, Addie applied herself thoroughly to her work. She opened her books and spread them before her; then she ruffled up her hair with her hands, and settled herself to in- tense study, holding hler head on either side by the loose and scattered curls of black hair, and slightly swaying backwards and forwards in the enjoyment of the exercise. Time passed on, the fire burned low, and the great empty barn     192      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. of a kitchen grew cold. and cheerless, but deeply and entirely ab- sorbed in her occupations, Addie saw only her books, and thought only of what they told her. Yet there was something else to be seen in that dreary underground basement, with its damp, and dis- comfort, and cold. The once tall but lessening candle, that flared and flickered by turns, showed other sights than the pale, sharp- ened features of the determinedly studious girl. It shed but a narrow circle of light, but its glimmering reached the window above the sink, and there discovered an evil countenance peering, with a white, bloated face, unhealthy and unnatural, as something that had long lain under water and was swelling into putrefication. The eyes in this face had once been handsome eyes, but like the nature that looked through them, they had grown distorted and contracted by wicked thoughts, and now glared in upon the un- conscious figure of the girl with a look that had the will if not the power to blight. This was not all, for suddenly the window would become blank, and then again another face would take the place of the horrible white one, and glance in cunningly with a quicker eye, better to be trusted in its report. Thus they changed places, those two strange faces; and the time went on, the water-drops oozed and fell from the leaky pipe, the last spark in the barren old stove expired, and the candle fell down in its socket with a hot sputter. Up jumped Addie with a great yawn. "I'm chilled to the bone," she said to herself, " but I've learned the arithmetic lesson, and know all the history perfectly now. Ugh, out goes the candle, and puff, open goes the door-that's what Kitty gets for her nonsense about attending to things herself. The latch never did hold without the bolt, and where is the bolt now?" Down dropped Addie on her knees in the dark, and scrambled around with her hands on the floor, to find the bolt. Suddenly she bumped her head against the sink door, and cried out in pain, "Oh, bother, I'll get a light, or my brains will be knocked out next. No, I needn't, for, by good luck, here it is just at my fingers." Not by good luck, though; a silent, creeping little figure slunk in 'at the   UNCLE AND NEPHEW.,          193 open door, and laid it there, and in his stocking feet flew back against the wall. Rising, Addie just brushed him lightly with her dress, and flattening his figure closely to the partition, he h-eld his breath as she secured the bolt, and carefully tried the door again and again. Then she climbed up on the sink and threw up the window to draw in the shutters. One of them wouldn't move for a moment, and she held on with one hand as she reached out with the other to find the cause of detention. It was gone before she touched it, and the shutter flew closed with a bang. "I'm a goose to try this work in the dark," she said; " but it's all done now, and every thing is safe."  Then she jumped down on the floor, and steering her way back to the table, gathered up her books and felt her way-to the door. Just as she took the handle in her hand, something like breathing caught her quilck ear, and she stood still and listened with strained attention. The sound was not repeated. "It makes me silly to be long in the dark," she said, and laughing, ran quickly up-stairs. At the last flight she bethought herself to go slowly, for Miss Norah she knew was but a light sleeper, and needing rest as she did, must not be disturbed.  So the last flight she crept up cautiously, and to her surprise found all three of the supposed sleepers sitting wrapt in shawls, and in close converse. Thy door was open, and just as she reached the landing, Miss Norah said, in a do!crous, tearful way-- "Well, you can imagine what I have gone through since morn- ing, but you cannot imagine my dread and fear of what may yet be to come." "Oh, Norah, don't croak," implored her sister earnestly. I've been actually light-hearted to-night, for I felt that our skeleton was being locked up, out of sight at least, in that good stout ship, with a long sea to sail over." "But they're not on board yet, remember," argued the other, gloomily. "I  was following, and begging, and beseeching for hours, all in vain; for, if I could have got them down there, I 9     191      TE:N YEARS OF A LIFETIMEj. would have trusted to their drinking tlemselves stupipd and lying quiet till she sailed." Klnowing, that she was not seen or heard by the preoccupied speakers, Addie stole into her room, and felt about for the candle- stick that Kitty had left there. She found it at last, and lighted the candle; then she began stirring about, and Kitty came in and joined her. She was cross and sharp in her way, and caught up the candle by which Addie Nwas undressing. "Ye must strive to do yer fixing widout a light, for I'm going down-stairs to fasten up the place," she said, snappishly, as if to provoke Addice to conflict. "You're welcome to the light, Kitty," said Addie, quietly, "but I fastened up the place as well as hands could fasten it." "I'll look to it meself for all that," said Kitty, ungraciously. "It's hard to know a thinghs done unless ye do it wid your own hands." So, without more ado, she caught up the light and went away with it. Every thing was silent in the next room--for she had left the door open behind her, yet Addic could not hear a sound; but from the staircase beneath there suddenly arose a' sharp, clamorous echo of voices, and without waiting to replace her dress or shoes, Addie ran downward with no clearer idea than that Kitty was somehow involved in trouble. The third landing discovered her mistake, for clear streams of light flowed out on the stairs below from Mr. John Tracy's open door, and the querulously angry tones of some one addressing that gentleman, and his own more restrained remonstrances, were the sounds that had reached Addie's ears. "Pray, uncle, consider my years and position. I am no longer a boy, and I must assume a man's place, and fight a man's battle in the world," expostulated the lodger with his unknown visitor. "Enough! enough!" cried the other, bitterly: " it's the old story of the viper; I should know it by this time, for I've been bitten before.' "I declare,' exclaimed Mr. John Tracy, with marked vexation, "that yoiu drive me to forget all I owe you in the past by taxing   UNCLE AND NEPIHEW.           195 me with ingratitude and dishonor now. If I have been forced to take a course you disapprove of, remember, sir, that nothing can make me unmindful of your claims on my respect; and that by acknowledging, a stronger and more dependent one, I deeply and truly regret that I give you offence." "Offence!" cried the other, in a tone that was little short of a shriek. "He calls it offence to overturn every hope and project of my life, and carry triumph to my enemies!"2 "We should have finished our encounter within," said the lodger, deprecatingly; " they are quiet people here, who will scarcely un- derstand that my intended marriage and business ideas could occa- sion such a scene." "Then, they had better learn from me that they have harbored a thankless, truthless wretch, that, being loved and trusted by a relative, sought out the secrets and hidden hopes of that friend's heart, that he might betray them all." "You-you don't know what you say; you'll regret this, uncle -believe me, you'll regret this." "I regret that I ever saw you or trusted you; and I'd wipe you out of my mind and out of the earth, too, if I could." Uttering these words in shrill, hysterical wrath, the speaker blundered down the dark stairs, still muttering syllables of anger, and crashed the hall-door heavily together after him. Addie turned about, and drew a long  breath, before she discovered that Miss Debby, with her petticoats round her shoulders, stood beside her. "Hush!" whispered Miss Debby, drawing her up-stairs; and when they reached the garret-landing, she said, confidentially- "It's his rich uncle, Mr. Richard Tracy, who is very impossible to get along with, and has led poor Mr. John an awful life, I hear, till he has driven him to start out in the world on his own account. My Cousin George knows   him, for he was born in Dublin, and went back there to be educated when a youth ; but there's nothing else Irish about him, the suspicious, carping old screw." Addie apologizedc for being  found listening to the lodgers' altercation. She had  thought at first only of Kitty, she said,     196      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. and hearing the noise, ran in haste to know what had befallen her. "A And where is Kitty now?" asked Miss Debby. "I hope and trust she won't go thumping up the stairs, so as to let Mr. John know any of us heard the rumpus." "She's fastening up the house; she said she'd rather not trust to me, though I took care of it before I came up." "She's a botheration, and really keeps Norah in a stew with her gloomy whims."  Miss Debby said this irascibly, but hastened to add: "Heaven knows she's true as steel and good as gold. I don't mean to undervalue her, but she wears on me sometimes." Miss Debby sighed and stood silent a moment, as if something weighed on her mind. She cleared her throat, and then said timidly: "Addie dear, if Norah should be ill to-night, and she really seems like it, would you help' me without letting Kitty know? Mind, I don't know that it will be needed, but I'm afraid; she's shivering and sort of wild now." Addie had barely time to assure her that she should be only too glad to serve her in any way, though she hoped and trusted such care would not be necessary, when Kitty's heavy tread became audible on the stairs. Miss Debby made haste back into her own quarters, and Addie was covered up in bed as she crossed the threshold, with the light in her hand. "Faith yer a good, hard slaper--I'll say that for ye," she remarked, by way of gaining Addie's attention. , "Why do you think so, Kitty?" asked Addie, innocently. "Well, I mane that ye must have stopped yer ears, not to hear yon row below there. It's a good thing that Mr. Siebert is off in the country, and the Frinchmin out at a big party, or they'd have tuck us for a quare set. Sure Mr. Tracy and an ould man was raging at each other like wild bastes on the stairs." "De(ar me!" cried Addie, hypocritically. And Kitty, who was loquacity herself where any other than her mistress's business was concerned, gave a prolonged and by no means perfect account of the encounter, wherein she barely allowed either party to escape with their life.   A LAST NIGHT FOR TWO OF THE HOUSEHOLD. 197 "I niver did see much in yon young chap," she confessed. "You and Miss Debby is always telling of his politeness and swate behavior, but it;'s only from his teeth out I'm thinking, for he iverly gives mie a quare look whin I pass him, and I'm often jist druv to giving him a bit of me mind for it." "It is not meant unkindly, whatever it is, Kitty," urged Addie. "I have seen nothing but goodness in his nature, and he's as firank as the sunshine." "I'd take an ould man's word any day before I'd give me ear to the likes of that highlflyer. Faith, I wonder at me own mildness in putting up wid the big eyes he made at me, and insulting de- manor of him whin he would see me, as if it was more nor he could stand. Sure if I had brought him a clip over the ears it would have been the life of him, and tached him manners." "What has made you so bitter to the poor gentleman?" -asked Addie, sleepily. "Jist me own raison; and forbye that, who could have listened to yon poor, broken-hearted ould gentleman widout the tears coming into their eyes? Och, ye know he must have had a sore job of it, bringing up the likes of that one." Kitty herself had by this time exhausted her contumely for the unhappy Mr. John Tracy, and Addie's deep-drawn and regular breathing testifying that she had no longer a listener, she gave a few incipient groans on general principles, and dropped down into the dark depths of sleep herself. CHAPTER XXIIL. A LAST NIGHT FOR TWO OF THE HOUSEHOLD. ADDIE slept and dreamed-a sweet, calm, happy dream of a ife she had never known before. She was with friends that ihe seemed always to have, loved, in a beautiful country of eternal bloom and sunshine. She was wandering in autumn woods, with     198      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. glorious colors in their foliage, under a soft, tender sky, whose light was like a smile of love. She heard the tinkling of evening bells in pure, warmn air, and the silver trickle of hidden water- brooks, like a murmur of melody that soothed her to rest. She was full of happy thoughts and loving words, and clung about the fo)rms that hovered round her with answering tones of fondness. Suddenly a terrible wind, like the fiercest blast of a polar winter, blew swiftly by her, and froze her with an icy horror. All her lovely vision shrivelled away and fluttered past, like withered leaves, and a bitter, blank, chilly circle gathered and spread about, through which a voice sounded, coming from a great distance- "Addie, wake up and help me!" As the sound assumed the form of words, and its sense pene- trated her hearing, she rose upright, and strove to open her sealed eyes. Never before had sleep so weighed on her, never before had her senses resisted her will, and so strangely clung to rest and quiet. Miss Debby's hand on her shoulder and her voice in her ear aided her struggle, and she came back to the waking world and the cold cheerless garret bed in which she was sitting, drawing the clothes off the snoring Kitty's broad and brawny shoulders. "Norah looks so strange and white that I'm frightened to be with her alone. Do come and tell me, Addie, what you think it is." Hearing this, and the further charge not to disturb Kitty, who would only increase her distress, Addie softly reached the floor, and gathered her things about her. With her stockings drawn on, she felt about for her shoes, missing them in the dark. "Come without them, dear--they'll only make a noise. Come as soon as you can-oh, do." Giving up the search at this entreaty, Addie hurried out in her stocking feet, and found that Miss Debby had lighted a tall candle, which was standing on the floor, to prevent the light gleaming in the face of her sister. Miss Debby remained on the landing long enough to softly close the door of Kitty's room, and then joined Addie, who was bending silently above the bed. Miss Norah was sitting rather than lying, with two pillows    A LAST NI'GT FOR TWO OF THE HOUSEHOLD. 199 under her shoulders. Her eyes were closed, but her breath'ns was short and difficult, and her face was singularly white and cold, and every little while she struggled as if in pain. "She has been growing colder and colder, and breathing with more and moreo difficulty ever since we ca-me to bed," said hler troubled sister. "It seems as if she were dying. Feel how icy her feet are! Is it possible to live without warmth?" The breath grew more and more labored as she spoke; and somethinog in the fixed and ghastly look of the features struck poor Addic's heart with a foreboding chill. "I don't believe this is sleep," she faltered; " it seems insensi- bility to me."     , "Good God!" cried the-errified woman beside her; "is she dying -without a hand to save her?9' She staggered back, and Addie caught her by the arm and h1l1d her fast "It is her heart-I'7m sure it is. She has been worn out and worried, mad it - affects her heart. Don't be frightcnecl; for there's some of the medicine left that the doctor gave her je- fore. It's sure to help her, if we get her limbs, warm, and start the circulation with musttard and rubbing," "Yes, yes!" cried Miss Debby, eagerly; "I knew you' woold help her. What shall I do?  Oh, tell me, Addie I for my head is turning round, and I'm sick at the soul with fear." "I'll get a fire when she swallows this; and I wonllt be lo g, for I know where the shavings and light-wood are laid all ready in the workroom-stove, and it has the best draught. Here's brandy, rub her with that till I get back with the boiling water and mus- tard; and don't lay her down, it will be all the harder for her to breathe." "Oh, Addie, make haste for your life! she's so cold, and looks so awfully white! Oh, fly I and pray to God to have mercy on us while you work!" With this entreaty ringing in her ears, she obeyed her mistress by literally flying down the stairs shoeless and without a light, trusting to her knowledge of where the matches and candles were kept in the workroom. Every nerve and sense in her being vras     200      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. so keenly alive, in the deep stillness of the hour and the strange excitement of her fears, that an old clock in the hall, whose tick- ing she had never so marked before, sounded loud and sharp, and an audible movement in Mr. Siebert's room struck her as some- thin, awful. It was a regular sound, as of some one twisting and turning a muflted screw. The wrenching was monotonously re- peated, but the sound was deadened more and more, and the effort seemled to grow lighter and lighter. Addie stood still, and a sudden terror smote her like a fit of ague. Mr. Siebert was absent, and she knew that his coming back in this way was beyond a possibility. The French lodgers' rooms were dark and silent; but that had not surprised her, as she r eemebered their telling Miss Debby in the morning that they would1 be away at a farewell supper given to a comrpanion who was to sail the next day for China, and that they would prolong their fstivities into an escort to the ship before they parted. No one was in all the house but the three women she had left on the garret floor, and the young gentleman, whose uncle had parted firom him in anger hours before. The strange and terror-striking noise went on ; and, without a thought of the necessity that had impelled her to haste, she stood rooted to the spot, straining her ear to listen, and striving, in her inexplicable fear, to think. Suddenly the dull sound changed, and she heard a stealthy creakin;., movement, which somehow convinced her that the door of the artist's room was open, and that another door, leading into the front or parlor-room belonging to Mr. John Tracy's suite, wgs being forcibly unclosed by the sounds she had heard. A faint light shone out into the hall, and discovered to her that her vague thloughlt was partially correct. The artist's door was ajar, and the liht, dim and indistinct as it was, came from the now opened door leadiig into the lodger9s parlor. "It must be Mr. John Tracy moving about," argued Addie, against her fears-" it cannot be any thing else; and I'll go in and speak to him; it will give me courage." She stood on the threshold of the painter's room as she thought this, and, held there by what followed, moved no further. The   A LAST NIGHT FOR TWO OF THE HOUSEHOLD. 201 door of the front chamber was thrown back against the artist's wall, full in view, and reflected on its smooth white surface wire two conflicting figures, that moved stealthily round, carrying a partially shaded light. One of them seemed muffled out of 1 shape, and the other held something in his mouth that cast a grotesque shadow. They moved like terrible phantoms in a drea:, and so held the watching girl's brain spell-bound by their impil- pablc reflections, that she had not the power to speak or stir for- ward. Suddenly one of them stumbled, and a voice cried out some half-formed word in a gasp; and then a startled cry fol- lowed, and a quick, sharp wrestle over the floor. Then Addie ran in, for terror took away the spell it had laid upon her, and saw a sight that burned itself in fadeless colors in her heart and brain. On the table two tall waxen candles had been burning, but one of them was overturned, and the other was the only light that showed the room. A great easy-chair, drawn close beside it, was empty ; but in it she knew Mr. John Tracy had been lying, ful y dressed, asleep. He was awake now, and struggling for his life with two men-one, the strange, wicked-faced man who had cone upon Addie alone in the kitchen long ago; the other, the late tormentor of the household, Dick Lavaridge. Both were trans- formed in the fury of their passion, and both struggled and strove with the half-awakened man, like very devils as they were. "Help! murder 1" shrieked Addie, but her voice died harsh and rattling in her dry throat. She looked about her and saw a pistol, a beautiful gold-mounted thing, lying on the- table. The lame man held a knife in his mouth, and was struggling to get his right hand free to use it. The motion gave her a thought-she caught tle pistol up, and ran with it to the lodger. Before his hand could grasp it another interfered, and a quick blow sent her whirling and breathless over against the wall, just as a clicking sound was hear, and the handsome youth staggered back into his chair without sigh or groan. "Run for yer life-run'-out of the back-door, the way ye cam, and lave me to settle this. The desaving divil has made off wi 9*     202      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. his money, and the job's done for nothing." As the lame man screamed this at his companion, ill a shrill but imploring tone, Addie gathered all her strength, 'and threw herself upon him, cry- ing out in broken shrieks--"Help, help 1-murder p!" "Hould off, ye young divil," said Dick Lavaridge, cunningoly loolking about him for the knife he had dropped. "I'd make short work of ye if it wasn't for the ould regard I have for ye. But kape your tongue between your teeth, I warn ye; the poor gintleman shot himself wid his own pistol, and we couldn't stop Iim. There's no trace left behind, and all ye have to do is to be aisy--whist-till I give ye a raison for it; ye know I tould I would give ye the sayerit when the time came. It's come now-- hould your ear till I spake to ye, and ye'll not have a word to say about this job till'yer laid in yer grave." All this lie uttered, having once repossessed himself of his knife, with his hand on her mouth and his lips to her ear. It was all said in breathless haste, and now he took a. last glance about the room before he added the final words. They were few but powerful, for the listener became an awful object of agony anl horror, as she took in their meaning. Her lips were deadly white, and her eyes lost every glance of life, as she slowly and tremblingly sank down a helpless mass upon the floor over-against the wall where she was thrown. From thence she saw, like one who lies bound in a horrible trance, liss Debby appear white and terrified in the doorway, and fall down upon her knees at the scene that greeted her eyes, crying , out in a wild agony of terror that they were all ruined, and praying that her senses might be spared her this terrible night. She heard Dick Lavaridge's parting words: "It was the quld gintleman's work; ye druv him till it, wid your beggarly way of sinding uz off wid a bare pinny. Kape it quiet, and no one will think that it was any one's deed but his own." Then she saw ihim give her a look that was full of warning, and flee; while Kitty Donahue, half naked and mad with fright, stood in his place, shrieking like a lunatic. That sound roused her mistress, who rose up and held her hand upon her mouth.   A LAST NIGHT FOR TWO OF THE     HOUSEHOLD.   203 W' We must save him if we can,t she said. "He did it, and ithe rope will be about his neck if you open your mouth again." Addie struggled up and stood upon 'her feet. She was numb in every nerve and muscle, but she knew what she was saying. iHer voice was strange, even in her own ears, but it was cIm and audible.             ^ "I saw it all, and I'll help vou to shield-that man-call a duoc- tor; if he is dead, he can never tell how it happened."  I "Oeh, donut trust her," shrieked Kitty; " she would beguile ye to the ruin of the master. Why would she want to save hil? She'll give him up, and he'll be hung at last."  "Hold your'tongue, fool that you are," said Addie, sternly. "Your day of nonsense is over; unless you would disgrace those you mean to serve, be silent and obey what is told you to do. Miss Debby, you must send for a doctor; every moment that is lost makes it more difficult to act. Can you trust Kitty to go?" "God help us all;,if He will help the wretched creatures that conspire against His truth, to save their wicked flesh and blood!" cried poor Miss Debby, wringing her hands. "Oh, is it possible to go against all that is good? we had better lay down and die. Addie, let the law do its worst now; we can't save him, and it's madness to try." "Miss Debby,"' said Addie, in the same cold, hard tone, " you must remember your sister--it will kill her, too; and he will be gone on that ship to-morrow beyond pursuit. If you hold your tongrue, I will do the rest." "Oh, I'll get down on my knees and be your slave for life if you save Norah," sobbed her sister in distracted misery. "What will we do? Think for us, and God will reward you." Addie looked about the room and picked up a chair, and set it in place, though she did not dare to bring her eyes to rest on the silent figure lying so naturally and easily upon one arm on the table, as if overcome by weariness. She flew in her motions, and seemed to think and act with lightning speed. Quickly she closed and relocked the door that led to the painter's room, fromwrhich she saw the bolt used on the artist's side had been unscrewed, and     Avt      TIiN YX IiAlt ' AC . LI'IA 1JYT I]LM. lay upon the floor. From the difficulty of turning the key, she knew% it had not been used before in a long time, and had formed no impeditnmelt to their?roegress. P"ick up the bolt and screw frol, )r. Siebert's floor, and fasten up the lower part of the ]iLi,-' ,she whispered in Miss Debby's ear, as she opened the entry door and drew them ill out with her. "Keep Kitty quiet. I'i ; itg for that Gernman doctor at the corner." -itardless of her unshod feet, she ran down the stairs to the from mi; ill, opened the door suddenly, and confronted two policemen standing upon the front steps. "qt"hat's up in here?" asked one of them, stepping forward. "Oh, sir! come in, please," cried Addie; " something dreadful has iappened, and I'm going for a doctor." 'Somebody shot, eh?" said the first speaker. "You didn't seem in a great hurry, for I heard the report on the back street, and ran, round here and gave a call to my companion to come on up, and you've just got down-stairs." "We're alone, with sickness in the house, and we're just fright- ened to death," murmured the poor girl, with every proof in her appearance of the truth of her words. "Please, will you get a doctor as quick as yoa can ; I am not able to walk.-" ' You run for that Dutchiman, Kennedy," said the man who had not Set spoken to the mall that had, who instantly obeyed the sug- gestion. Then the second policeman motioned to the staircase, and Addle went before him. Miss Debby stood there in her half-clad state, of which she seemed totally unconscious, a pitiable object of horror and fright; but Kitty Donahue was not in view. "Which is the room?" was all the officer asked; and going in, took up his position by the door, and fell into a slow scrutiny of every thing that gave a sense of torturing foreboding to Addie's heart, as she stood quailing in the shadows behind him. A strangely indefinable length of time passed, and then the other  policeman, with the doctor at his heels, appeared, and a small group of strange faces began to gather on the stairs. "Close the front door, and attend to it, Kennedy," said the second :   A LA'ST NIGOHT FOR TWO OF THE HOUSEHOLD. 205 policeman, becoming aware of this too. "Stone-dead, as I thought -eh, doctor?"  "Yes, sir," said the doctor, who was a slow and thoughtful-look- ing German, whom Addie had often seen in conversation with Mr. Siebert. "(There's nothing to be done here but to secure every thing for future examination." "That's all right," said the other. "This house belongs to two milliners; this here lady's one of 'em; where is the other?" The same thought seemed instantly to suggest itself to the cowering woman and the terrified girl at her side, for they both, with one accord, turned and fled up-stairs. "That young one has blood on her feet, Kennedy," remarked his comrade, to the officer who had just fastened the lower hall-door, after making a clearance of the stragglers. "She's been close to the lady, for there ain't a drop in the room, 'cept a little pool on the left side and a track she's made on the carpet." "She's stone-cold with fright," suggested Kennedy. "With that or something else," replied the other. "You take the lower floor, and see to the entrance, will ye? I'm goin' up here to find out whose in the house." "Doctor!" shrieked a wild, ringing voice from above. "Doc- tor!" The German answered the call by running past the policeman with his utmost bounding speed.  Yet, somehow, both reached the garret-stairs together. It was Miss Debby who had cried out; and it was she who, clutching the doctor by the arm, drew him forward into the room with crazy haste. "Quick, quick, for God's sake!" was all she could utter, and pointed to the bed.      , . A  terrible moment passed. "Too late again!" said the German, sadly; "thelady has been dead, I  should say, as long as the gentleman who lies below. , There was not a sound in all the room as he uttered the words, and none followed. Kitty Donahue was there and had heard them;  and the three women stood looking steadily on the cold, silent -  -                !!     206      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIM[E. figure now past all care and sorrow, and gave no cry of mourning only Miss Debby softly closed the eyes, and tenderly put backl the long, rich hair. The policeman touched his companion, and they and the doctor went out on tip-toe, closing the door after them. "I've know'd that lady's face for nearly ten years," he said, "and always thought she had a sight of trouble behind it. I guess she's the best off of the lot to-night." And within, her sister was kissing her cold mouth tenderly, say- ing-- "It's all past for you, my darling; and I thank the blessed God that you are at rest this night-from the bottom of my bleeding heart, I do." CHAPTER XXIV. THE INQUEST. "SUDDENLY, from disease of the heart, Eleanor MacIlroy, native of the city of Dublin, Ireland; the funeral to take place from the residence of her cousin, George Campbell, Esq., West Bond-street." Such was the announcement in the evening papers on the day that followed that terrible night at the milliners', and from thence had ,been carried the unconscious figure of poor Miss Norah to the house of her horror-struck cousin, to be buried in the manner that became her early life, and under her own proper style and name. Miss Debby had followed it under her cousin's tearful escort, and the establishment was left to Kitty and Addie, and the police. Mr. Richard Tracy appeared early in the day, and hung about his nephew's body in a passion of grief and self-accusation, and his querulous groans sounded dismally through the silent house. Addie had parted from Miss Debby, with her arms about her neck and her lips to her ear. She had said--   THE INQUEST.           207 "Go, and be silent. I will stay here to be the same-it is our only hope." Confused with misery, and utterly heart-broken as the poor sister was, she could not choose but marvel at the wonderful change that had come upon the little creature that a month ago had seemed but a child.  Very pale and quiet, she yet seemed strong and unbending as iron. Since she stood looking down into Miss rNorah's dead face-she had not shed a tear, or given away to one moment's feeling. She had quietly consulted the policeman as to their duty as a household, and calmly met the morning light with all its myriad harassing incidens,-the terrified workroom to be dismissed, the hilarious lodgers to be sobered with the awful tidings, the inquest to be prepared for, and most of all, Kitty to be satisfied. Wherever she moved this suspicious woman haunted. her, wherever she turned, the distrustful but imploring eyes held her; whenever they were alone, the hard, dry lips murmured- "Don't turn on thim, Addie, or ye'll be cursed, body and soul, for yer want of faith. Stick to thim, and the saints 'll guard ye, an' heaven ll be your bed at last." In the closed- parlors, where scarcely a ray of light came in from the bowed shutters, she was folding and laying away ribbons and silk in boxes, and making the main floor clear for the assem- bling of the twelve who had such weighty business to decide upon above-stairs. Her coarse-handed companion aided her nothing in this delicate work, and indeed seemed scarcely conscious of its execution, but Addie was very busy. Never did she labor so aptly or accomplish so much. Before noon every trace of the late call- ing of the ladies was out of sight, and the spacious rooms presented nothing to view but the faded carpets and once stylish furniture. Miss Debby had been gone away nearly two hours, when she entered the workroom to make a disposition of the huddled goods she had carried there. Kitty still followed in her track, and to her she turned, saying-- "Kitty, please get me something to drink-strong tea or coffee; I must keep myself up for the inquest; I will be examined, you know."      208      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "What are ye going to say, Addie? Och, take the weight off me sowl, and tell me what you are goin' to say?" Addie looked at her vacantly. "What should I say but my duty, woman? It's my duty to say I saw nothing, and I'll say it." "Och, ye jewel of jewels, yer brighter nor gold and diamonds to me, yer the life of my heart!" screamed Kitty, hugginrg her wildly in her arms. "Let me go-I'm sick, let me go," said Addic. ' Don't touch me again; it takes away my strength, and makes my heart sink within me." "I'll get ye the tay, darlint, I'll get ye the tay,' whispered Kitty, with a jubilant face. "Och, there's no sorrow in the world if we can only keep up the dacincy of the ould name till they're all under the sod." Addie stolidly pursued her task, and Bob Tod's countenance next disturbed her. "I had to come," he protested, 'cause our Mag is sick abed; and Jen, she's worried about you. She wants to know if it would help you to have her hobble down; she says she won't mind the ways a single bit, and she ain't afraid of nothing. She'll come and sleep here, and she'll be glad of the chance, she says. Ain't she a fool, though? Oh, lordy, I wouldn't stay here if you was to give me a bag of diamonds ; though I'm real sorry about poor Miss Norah, so I am." Addie stopped and tried to think, but that was the hardest thing in all the world just then. She could keep silent and turn her mind inward, but that only showed her strange and horrible ,pictures whirling wildly about in maddening confusion. No-she had better not try to think at all. So she said-"Tell her to come; if she gets tired she can go away again. Let her come." "We shall want you in here soon," remarked the policeman, whose name was Kennedy, opening the door at this point, "and that big heavy woman too, what's-a-name." Kitty appeared with a bowl of hot tea in her hand, just behind  him, and this mention of her roused her indignation.' "And what do ye want of me, thin?" she asked, with much asperity.   THE INQUEST.           209 "I don't want nothin' particular myself, but the gentleman inside 'II be likely to ask you a question or two-so step along." Kitty, so far from obeying this request, edged past him, and presented- the tea to Addie, who drank it most eagerly, first saying to the policeman, "We'll go in a moment, sir." Bob Tod, divided between fear and intense interest in the pro- ceedings, hovered on the threshold, from which post Addie dis- missed him, as the officer retired, in an authoritative manner, so far impressive that he alluded to it at home, iu his report, remarking that Addie had become "-orful stuck up and high as blazes." Wlhen they were alone together, she shut the door suddenly, and faced Kitty with a look of warning. "On your life, say nothing that contradicts me, or we are both lost 1i she cried; and, drawing a quick, short breath, that seemed to catch painfully, went boldly forward. In the little time- she had been absent a crowd of people filled the parlors, now made lighter by opening the back windows; and around the great centre- table, so lately covered with flower and ribbon boxes, sat a circle of attentive, serious-faced men. Every eye glanced towards her as she entered, and, strangely enough, their numbers gave her courage. Round against the recesses leaned gentlemen she had become familiar with from sight, as remembering them in the car- riages of their patronesses; and over by the window in an armchair by himself, with his hat drawn low over his face, sat Mr. Richard Tracy. Somebody moved aside to make room for her to enter; but she did not look up, though the figure seemed familiar. A seat was given her, and she took it quietly, and sat upright and calm, with a pale but unchanging face. She listened with absorbing attention to a1l that followed, but the meaning at first refused to come to her dulled senses. A gentleman arose, and spoke in a clear, business-like manner to those around him; but she could not follow his meaning for glancing from face to face those he addressed, and wondering how they received his words. Then she found herself counting the syllables of the names as they were called, and trying to guess to     210      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. whom each belonged, before they were claimed. "And that was al oath," she comlmelnted withinl her own minld. She had often heard of taking an oath, and marvelled now at the simplicity of what she had once thought a terrible process. Then the gentle- nman who had addressed them, and those he had addiressed, all filed slowly and solemnly up-stairs, and a strange, atful .gap occurred in time. Through the stillness that followed nobody spoke, and nobody moved, and the feet overhead were audible through the heavy floors. Then they began to descend, and, coming down, assumed their places with increased gravity of man- ncr; and a young gentleman being called, stood forward and answered the questions asked of him. He had known 5Mr. John Tracy slightly for years past, and had always admired him as a noble-hearted young gentleman-one whom everybody regarded in the same light. Had met him late last evening on the street corner, near to the present house; spoke a few words, but without his usual life and cheerfulness of manner; in fact, confessed to being stupid aucld gloomy, and parted, with the words--' It won't matter to-morrow--my fate will be decided then." These words the witness construed to mean something significant of the terrible event that had occurred. Mr. Richard Tracy being called, rose trcmblingly and advanced, weighed down by his emotion. lte had been the last person, lihe declared, who had seen his nephew alive, and it was to him the fragment of a letter found on his table was addressed, though he believed it to allude only to his projected marriage in the words, "Much as I owe you, I feel you have no right to blame me for this act," and in no wise refer to the terrible catastrophe that fol- lowed. There had been an ill feeling between them on the occasion of their parting, owing to the deceased's suddenly announcing his intention of marrying a person the witness could not regard favor- ably. Some hasty words followed, chiefly on witness's own part. The poor boy had been most moderate and conciliating, he was bound to confess, and though apparently dejected in manner, en- tirely without any peculiarity of behavior that would lead to a suspicion of the wild act that followed. Mr. Richard Tracy here tl                   j   THE INQUEST.           2" gave way to such broken lamentations over his own folly in leav- inag his nephew alone, and bitter reproaches against the unknown lady that had caused the altercation, as to become incoherent, and be led away by somle kindly-disposed friend. As the old man had continued speaking, Addie's eyes dilated more and more, and- her steady gaze fixed itself more and more'earnestly upon him. A new thou(ght seemed slowly unfolding  through his words, and those of the young man who had preceded him, and its meaning brought intolerable anguish in its wake. A merciful dizziness came upon her, and a sudden blindness blotted out the room, and left her whirling in a desolate space, reached only by the faint mur- murs of the voices that spoke. It was the policeman she had first met, who said, he had heard the report from the small back street, where he was trying the gate, that didn't appear quite secure, as he passed it. He had made haste round, and summoned William Fry, the other policeman, with a whistle. When they got round and came up to the door the girl stood fumbling with the bolts, and finally flung it open, on her way, as she said, to call a physi- cian for a young man who had shot himself. Here she strove to cry out, No, no," but found her tongue, immovably dry and hard, refuse to obey her wish ; even her hands would not rise when she tried to stretch them forth in protest against the crime of suicide, as the officer went on to give the appearance of the room, and the position of the pistol as it had evidently fallen from the dead man's hand. The other follow ed, and was less diffuse in his statement. There was a disarrangement about the lock of the door that led into the artist's room, that it would be necessary to gain Mr. Sie- bert's testimony about. The sister of the dead lady had in her written deposition said nothing about it. All that had been elicited from her, was the effect of the terrible sight of a dead man on her already distressed feelings; and her state at present was such that further examination was deemed unadvisable. The young girl had been the first to reach the spot, the servant-woman arriving last. The young girl was present, and would state the circum- stances of her making the discovery. "Rise." She rose. "Come forward.'  She came. "Your name."   The lips moved, but no     21. 2     TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. sound issued. The gentleman who had given place to her stepped to her side, and gently lifted one of the stiff straight hands that stretched down on either side like pieces of marble. "Is it possible to look on a person in this condition as a wit- ness?" he asked of the coroner. ' I am not a medical man, but I should pronounce it a case of catalepsy." As he spoke, Kitty Donahue broke out, shrieking- "Och, he'll be the rain of uz all; sure, it's little matter his blowinog his own brains out, if the repoort hadn't kilt Miss Norah, and the sight of the blood has tuck away poor Addie's sinses." Not her senses, for she knew and understood these words, and made a fearful effort to speak and deny them. A sharp contortion passed over her face; she locked her fingers, and then tore them apart as if they had been clenched iron, a quick spirt of foam and blood flew from her nose and mouth, and she fell down writhing in a fit. Policeman William Fry caught her, and whispering to the gentleman that had just spoken in her behalf, "Keep her, hands from her throat--thev generally hurt themselves tearing in fits like these," looked towards the coroner for his views on the sub- ject. "Yes; get a doctor, and keep her quiet, Fry," said that func- tionary; "we can take her evidence again. Catharine Donahuc, come forward." Kitty, in perfect defiance of the tone of this mandate, pushed her way towards the prostrate girl, and did her utmost to impede the progress of raising and carrying her from the room by almost flinging herself upon her, and imploring her to live and endure for ZMiss Debby's sake. "Think of her, darlint-it's what I do mesilf; and it takes all fear and pain away from me, so it does,' she cried. "Ye said ye'd do yer duty, an' ye'll niver go back on yer word, I know." "Catharine Donahue," repeated the coroner, and being forcibly parted from the unconscious object of her adjurations, the pro- prietor of the name shook herself slightly, thrust back her disar- ranged hair, and turned with a face of hard, unflinching purpose towards her questioners.   THE INQUEST.           213 "Yes; that was her name, and she wasn't ashamed to own it, though she wasn't used to being dragged up afore the law; and it was a poor country, so it was, where a man put himsilf out of the world and lift thim behind him to suffer for his acts. Yis, she had lived all her life in the family of the ladies, and, plase God, she'd die in it, too. Did she know the deceased? Troth, did she, and that was a small comfort to her to remimber, for of all the upset- ting, consaited craytures iver she met, he tuck the lade. Faith, he thought no more of making faces and turning the eyes back in his head at the sight of a quiet dacint woman, nor yer honor would of winkin'. Sure, he's, dead now, and she wouldn't say a word agin him; but there's small loss in the likes of him. Is it tell what she saw that night?  It was aisy tould. Miss Norah was tuck bad, ye see, and Addie ran down to warm the water for a bath. Miss Debby and hersilf was so busy working wid the dying lady, that they niver know'd a word till poor Addie's scraiche brought thim flying down, and they found that she had heard the pistol and run in to find the dead man lying in his blood, and she hadn't been her- silf since; small wonder that sich a sight would turn the head of a poor, little, wake young thing like her, when the repoort had kilt Miss Norah entirely, blissed saint in heaven as she was that day." To this version of the death of Mr. John Tracy did Kitty Don- ahue stick steadily through all the tortuous twistings and turnings of a close examination, and at length, being allowed to depart, she made haste to gain the workroom, where she found a  hasty couch of tables constructed, whereon reposed poor Addie, pale and speech- less, with Jenny Tod installed as attendant at her side, and the strange gentleman, who had been so kind in the parlors, still near her in consultation with the German doctor. "As   this examination must necessarily be continued some time before a verdict can be agreed on, and as this poor friendless girl has been as marked a  sufferer in this calamity as any one else, I will remain with her until some conclusion can be arrived at." "You are very good, Mr. Farron," the doctor said;   "she really needs a friend now more than she is ever likely to need one again."     214:      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. CHAPTER XXV. AN E]MPTY CAGE. "AT the residence of her cousin,. George Campbell, Esq.," the funeral arrangements of Miss Norah proceeded with solemn and appropriate show, under the immediate auspices of that sorrowful gentleman himself. "You never would come home here, and live like Christians, you know/," he said to the wordless Miss Debby, whose frozen grief was something terrible to him. "' Now we have the poor darling girl at last, we must try to show our sorrow and our respect in the', last attention we canll ever pay her." To this Debby silently assented, as she had done to every thing her cousin had offered since her coming to the house, and she thought within herself-"I can sell whatever there is left and pay for it all, for Norah would not rest if any one else were chargeable with her expenses." Of any thing that might afterwards befall herself, she took not one moment's thougcht or care. For her poor sister every idea and wish of her life developed itself now into one silent prayer, that her body might be allowed to descend into its last rest without dis- turbance, and that the storm of suspicion and trouble that she dreaded hourly might break only over her own desolate head. "Let him but escape, and Norah, my darling, be laid in her blessed rest, and then let the worst befall me." This she thought constantly; and thinking this, she held her peace, and neither broke forth in lamentation nor regret. To her Cousin George this unnatural conduct was another exasperating feature of the family eccentricity ; and to his wife, a vague-minded woman, who thought nothing in particular about any thing, did he ease his mind on this one of his many distresses- "You know, Patty, they were so devoted to each other from childhood, that they were a sort of by-word in the family; no one could separate them in play, and they've clung together in real   AN EMPTY CAGE.           215 earnest, I should say, all these years. Yet here is this one as quiet and tearless over her sister's corpse as if dying was an every day's business." Mrs. George feeling herself called on for a reply, and not being- equal to it, took refuge in a suggestion-- "Perhaps," she remarked, "Cousin Debby does not like to cry." Her husband, to whom her inanity was always oracular, seemed greatly struck Fith this view of the question, and rejoined in a tone of conviction-- "You're right, no doubt, Patty. Some do object to tears; but don't you think she might do something less inflammatory to her face that wouldc be a sort of expression of feeling, you know?" Mrs. George looked troubled ; she had hoped that her. last re- mark might havLe been considered sufficient, and being again reduced to consideration, she caught an idea in her despair, and hinted- "She may be tired." "Yes," asseited Mr. George, "she looks tired-she certainly does; but then she has looked tired for years, and, in fact, they both have. Poor things, such stitching and working as they did, it's no wonder they should be tired, but I don't think it's just the same now." Mrs. George did not think at all, except to be relieved that no further demand was made on her explanatory abilities. She was a goodish sort ofl woman, who, considering it the height of human luxury to be let alone, carried out her belief by doing as little to disturb any one else as her busy husband would allow her. She had always considered it rather an absurd weakness of his to per- sist in being born in Ireland; and these Irish cousins, who would be equally ridiculous in pursuing the millinery business for a liveli- hood, gave her some weak spasms of wonder at times. But in a general way shd accepted every thing without question, and had received Miss Norah's lifeless body with about as much perturba- tion of manner as she would have welcomed her living form, except- ing, perhaps, a faint, inward congratulation that, as grief was usually quiet, she shouldn't be obliged to say much. Miss Debby had been a   momentary distraction to her, for upon     216      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. her husband's saying, "Go to the poor girl, Patty, and see what we can do for her," she had felt some diluted impulses of rebellion; but Miss Debby had relieved her, and gained her gratitude, by beg- ging to be allowed to go at once and alone to her own chamber, being, as she said, too confused to think or realize what had be- fallen her. If Mrs. George had been a suspicious or busy-brained woman, there might have been many odd things in her power to suggest to her husband, and swell the current of his half-provoked wonder at his cousin's behavior. On the evening after Debby had arrived in the household of West Bond-street, its mistress met her suddenly on the nursery- stairs, cloaked and bonneted, and gliding down in stealthy haste. Although not exactly astonished at this apparition, Mrs. George manifested some tokens of surprise; the more so when Miss Debby hurriedly declared that it was so warm and close, and her head was so heavy, that she wanted to run out in the twilight for just a breath of air. Then she threw the poor lady into a state of actual confusion, by beseeching her not to mention this little circumstance to Cousin George, who might not understand, etc. "Certainly," said Mrs. George, eagerly; and she added, "Not at all," with equally marked meaning. But if Mrs. George had followed the poor creature about whom she stood in her nearest approach to deep thought for fully a min- ute, she would have had still greater cause to wonder. No sooner had she cleared the back garden-gate that led from her Cousin George's premises, than she sped away with flying feet that paused for nothing in the way-past the fine streets and elegant dwellings -into a low, mean quarter of the town, near an old market-house. There she paused at a street corner, and glanced timidly up and down several times before plunging boldly into its murky shadows. About half way down she stopped before a sunken doorway and looked earnestly up at all the windows; then she went on a pace or two, and again returned, as if irresolute as to her next proceeding. Suddenly she seemed to take courage, and knocked loudly at the echoing panels of the dirty door, after stumbling down the step   A WIDOW.            217 that led to it. Nobody answered, and she repeated the summons again with more violence than before. An upper window opened by and by, aid a woman's head thrust itself out and looked up and down the street, before turning her eyes below. "What a]e yer up to?" demanded this female, in a tone of strong offence. "Don't yer know there ain't nobody down there? If yer want any ofi us up here ye'll have to go to the alley door, and don't make no row neither."  "But I don't want any one but-the lodgers who belong here," said Miss Debby, in a trembling voice, and with so much anxiety expressed in her tone that the woman noted it. "Oh, yer do!" she said, with a long whistle of deep meaning. "Then yer donle, that's what ye are. They been gone long enough, and ye'll have to wait awhile afore yer finds out where. They went off so slick that they done us all here; nobody never know'd nothin' about it till they was gone." "' Oh, thank you," said Miss Debby, and the expression was so earnest that the woman returned a wondering- "Then yer warn't much set on seein' lem was yer?" in a tone of some surprise. Miss Debby stayed for no answer, but hurried out of the street by the other way from that by which she had come, and at her topmost speed, gained again the back garden-gate, which she had left unbolted, and closing it after her, was soon in her own room. "And now I can lie down and sleep," she said, "for they are all safe but me." CHA PTER XXVI. A WIDOW. THE evening after the first sitting of the coroner's jury, the body of Mr. Jchn Tracy was removed to the house of his uncle, and the establihment of the milliners was closed and deserted, 10     218      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. save by the sick girl and her two attendants, Kitty Donahue and Jenny Tod. The lodgers on the third floor had made short work of their flitting,--carrying out, through the back way into the small street there, the few trunks, boxes, books, etc., which constituted their own personal property, with which they drove away in a capacious hack, after settling with Kitty their full quarter's rent, only partly expired, with the candid avowal " that they would not stay another night in the house to save it." Addie being carried into tie workroom, Kitty had dragged thither one of the up-stairs beds and blankets, and made up a fire in the stove, to give the place a look of comparative comfort. Since Addie had fallen down at the inquest, she had neither spoklen nor evinced any sign of consciousness, but lay heavily breathing and cold, and death-like in appearance. Jenny Tod did very little for the first hour but watch her ghastly face, and hold her bloodless 1and in hers; but apparently satisfied, from the test of sight and feeling, she took earnest note of the doctor's direc- tion, and applied herself to seeing them fulfilled. tier appearance at all gave Kitty stronlg dissatisfaction, and her assumption of authority developed the feeling into wrath. "We'll make things look cheerfuller by opening these windows and spread- ing the parlor rugs over this bare cold floor," said Jenny, taking a critical view of the apartments and all it contained. "This poor child may be ill for weeks, and we must make things in as good ordy;' as we can for her comfort." "Troth, yer not any ways slow or backward," observed Kitty, 'without making a motion towards complying with her request. "And let us set that other room in order, so that people coming in can have a place to stop in, without bolting in upon the poor thing and startling her." "Och, then, maybe yer going to tell me yer mistress here in- tirely," said Kitty, angrily, with a strong determination to have an encounter. "I'm not going to be a fool," remarked Jenny, " which I strongly suspect you are. I know all about this family, and I know what this poor child has done for it, too; so I'm not going to have her   A WIDOW.            219 neglected because Miss Debby is too much overcome with 'trouble to see her attended to."' "Troubls indade it is!" cried Kitty, wailing; "ye may well say that. The ' Belle of ould Boyne,' as they used to call her, is lying in her coffin to-night, widout one of her name but the poor, broken- hearted sister to folly her till the grave. Och I och I but it'll be the black d y; and who that saw her oust would iver thought it?" "Death mas no old Irish love of name or blood," said Jenny, coolly; " the whims of fortune and chance may make or mar, and the world i easily -led by the favorites of either, but death is not to be bribed or deceived; he takes which he will, and leaves what suits 1im, and has but one spot to stow his plunder-a hole in the earth!" and Jenny laughed bitterly. "It's the iway wid any one that has met wid a cross, aither in their shape or their falings, to be snarling and biting at thim that's born to better fortune," said Kitty; "but, ye crippled crayture ye, there's no truth in yer words. She'll be carried to her grave under waving white plumes, and there'll be a long line of coaches to folly her, though it is in a strange land, far from thim that know'd her in her airly days, whin there wasn't a cloud above her head."  Kitty Donahue sat down upon  the floor and rocked herself to ani --fro, weeping wildly, and beating her hands together. It was the first moment since her awakenings to a knowledge of the dreadful events of the night before, that she had given way to her own grief or allowed her heart to cry out over its lost idol. Now, all the memories of a life of devotion and admiring love crowded upon and overflowed her soul. I The little woman she had slightingly called '"a crippled crayture" watched her narrowly, and thought within herself- "If it was not for this burst of feeling, that woman would have hardened into iron. Now I can manage her."' So she spoke to her kindly and- feelingly about the dead lady, and called heI beautiful and full of dignity and grace. She had touched the right chord--it responded instantly to her tough. "Beautiful! Oh, darlint! ye niver saw  ler. It was her shadow  darkened by grief-and sorrow walked this house this     220      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. many a year-the raal Miss Norah niver crossed the thrishold. She was like a living sunbame, and no willow, waving in the wind, was iver gracefuller nor her. The young officers that dined wid her uncle, the councillor, made her a toast, and wheriver she wint she jist tuck the heart from ivery one that looked at her." "She had such wonderful eyes; so full of sadness, yet so ca- pable of brighter expression." "Did ye iver look on their aiquil? Sure I saw her onst, whin I thought the stars in hivin might invy the light there was in thim. It was whin her heart was overflowing wid joy, and the whole world didn't hould a drap of sorrow for her. Every one has a bright day in their lives: some takes theirs from the delight of others-and that day was enough for me.   Do ye know, the thought came to me mind thin, whin I looked at her and saw her joy and beauty, and felt me own heart swelling wid the same fort her sake-I tell ye, the thought came to me thin, that if we could both die that night it would be hivin's blissing, for it would be but a short step into Paradise." "She lived to long for death, and so to rob it of its sting," said Jenny, gently. "She lived to taste ivery bitterness there was in airthly grief and trouble, and lose all knowledge of the ways of happiness and pace. Sure if it wasn't that I know that death was a comfort and relafe till her soul, I'd be crazy enough and wild enough wid grief to strive to tear her back from the grave.9" "Addie saved her life once, my sister told me, by her care and watching, and it's the sorrow and horror both working together that has laid the poor little thing so low now. She was entirely devoted to her." "So she was," admitted Kitty-" thrue for ye, so she was; and well she might be." "Addie and you together will be a great comfort to poor Miss Debby, and keep her from taking any trouble for herself.1' "Faith, yer right; I was seeing no nade of either of uz striving to live, or any good in uz at all, but what ye say is thrue, and we have no right to lie down and say it's over, so long as Mliss Debby is to the fore."                i   A WIDOW.            221 "It is when the funeral's over, and the place all to be settled and arranged, that you can do most." "Sartinly it is; and if we could kape her from coming back here at all at all, it would save her many a throe of heart-sickness; the sight of all that's here will jist kill her." "Then let us nurse poor Addice up, and she'll be able to per- suade her to stay at her cousin's, and leave my sister Margaret and you two wi th the management of things here." "What can a body do for the crayture? Sure she seems to know noth ng nor nobody." Wa:it ill she comes to herself, as she will by and by, and then we can better judge what to do. " "Yes, surely; and we'll bring in the chairs and bits of carpet, and make it dacint-like in here, that it mayn't take the heart out of her wid the dreary look of things, whin she comes till herself." Thus Je ny Tod gained her point and Kitty's good-will and co- operation, and her mind was at rest on Addie's account. But Ad lie lay, hour after hour, taking no note of these things, and only r. ceiving the medicine from Jenny's skilful hand at the exact monment prescribed by the physician, as a choice between swallowing and strangulation. The desolate house, meantime, w'as not forsakn ; it seemed inexplicable to the self-appointed nurse how so mla ly people found themselves in some way connected with the events hat had transpired, either tlhrough business or curiosity. Never befo Le had so many inquirers existed as now called to find out the fate of the French gentlemen, who had forgotten to leave their present address, and therefore occasioned mnch delay, by al- lowing theil interested friends to stand glowering along the hall, or up the stlairs, with intense interest, whilst they speculated as to the probability of their having gone here or there, or questioned the irascible Kitty as to the direction they had taken. iMessrs. Fry and K Innedy paraded the whole place in a ghost-like way, and never had both departed since the time of their first coming; and the number of people to whom they acted as ushers, guiding them silently up to the darkened apartment above-stairs-so lately the glory of the establishment, and-now a chamber of horror to all %.     222      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. within its shelter-went beyond Jenny's computation, and far above Kitty's powers of expressing her dissatisfaction at. Besides this ceaseless succession of coming and going, there were three es- pecial visitors, distinct and separate from all the rest; and the first of these came in at twilight. It was Mr. George Campbell, and he had descended his own front doorstep just about the time that his stricken cousin; with whom his sympathies were busy, had hur- ried away through the by-street on her strange errand to the de- serted lodgings. Being admitted to the late abode of his relatives by the police- man in charge, he inquired for Kitty and the girl, and was at once shown into the transformed workroom, now doing duty as a by no means uncomfortable sick-chamber. There was a cheerful fire, and plenty of fresh air, from the lowered window-sash, a well-trimmed lamp, and small stand for its reception, covered by a decent white cloth. Besides this there was a black lounge, seven chairs, a table, and the parlor rugs upon the floor. Jenny stood up beside the bed they had improvised from the work-tables, and held a wine-glass to Addie's lips, as Mr. George entered. "Good gracious 1" cried that gentleman in horror, "what is this, now; is it another of them down? What, in heaven's name, is the matter?" "This is Addie, sir," answered Jenny. "She took ill suddenly this morning, and the doctor said she must have care and rest." "Oh, dear!" groaned Mr. George; "the place is fated. I al- ways knew it was. You'll all be corpses if you don't get out of this dismal cavern of a house." "  How is she, sir?" prayed Kitty. Och, tell me, how she is. Does she bear her throuble as bravely as she did this morning?" "If it's Debby you mean, Kitty," answered he, "all I can say "s, that I wonder at her calmness ; and so does my wife, too." It was a custom of Mr. George's to report his wife as fully shar- fag all his emotions, however exciting and contrary to her own temperament. "If she had been in daily practice of losing all she loved on   A WIDOW.            223 earth she could not seem more used to it, and I haven't seen her shed a tear since I took her home." 'That's the harder for her, poor lamb," groaned Kitty; "dry trouble takes a stiff grip of the heart; but she'll cry to-morrow, plase God, and that'll aise her sowl a bit." "I came up to-night to talk to you about getting her to eat something. I've just found out that she has'nt swallowed a mouth- ful since yesterday, over twenty-four hours ago, which is against reason." "Troth, is it 1' said Kitty, in a troubled voice. She had not broken her own fast in all that time by bite or sup, but the thought never occurred to her. "See now, Mr. George dear," she suggested, brightening up with a sudden thought, suppose ye was to make a good mill gruel, and hould it to her lips-she couldn't refuse to take a swal- low or two; and if ye was to slip a drop of swate wine into it, sure, it would be all the better." "Gruel, is it? Well, I donst know who understands making up such things in our place. Come up with me, Kitty, and I'll send you back again to keep your eye on the house here, as you promised her, after you have got her to take something and seen her com- fortably in led.^ Kitty gave a worried look about the room, and seemed distracted between conflicting duties. "I'll go,' she said, at length. "This young crayture is Mar- garet Tods sisterte and the ladies put a great trust in her intirely, so they'll not blame me for laving her in charge awhile. Qch, what am I shying? Miss Norah, my darlint, yer past taking thought or throuble for the mane cares of this world to-night l As Kitty stood in her walking-gear at his side on the doorstep, Mr. George glanced at her with some perturbation, and seemed al- most inclined to shirk the duty of escorting such a fashion-defying dress and u compromising  I bonnet; but a refuge opened to him in the shape of a passing cab, which he hailed with a grateful heart, and stowing the offending toilet inside, followed with directions to drive fast to West Bond-street     224      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIMEI Scarcely had the vehicle driven away from the threshold till it was replaced by a small, plain carriage, out of which stepped a young lady in mourning, who hurried up the steps and rang the bell quickly. It was some little time. before it was answered, for Mr. Kennedy, the then present policeman, was engaged in taking a glass of wine with a private friend, to whom he had just shown the scene of the late occurrence, and, consequently, a momentary delay was neces- sary. "I want to see some of the family," said the young lady, irreso. lutely, as if she had not studied the form of her inquiry, and was rather at a loss how to make it. "Some of the family?" repeated the policeman, politely but questioningly. "Does that mean the Irishwoman, for instance T' "I suppose I should have said that I would prefer to see the young girl-Addie is the name, I think." "All right, Miss. I know what you mean now, but that young gal is pretty much done for. She's been took with conwulsions.' "Taken with convulsions," repeated the lady, in a tone of pained surprise. "I thought it was one of the milliners who was so ill. I didn't hear of any thing being wrong with Addie." "One of the milliners is dead, Miss; died about the same time with the gentleman up-stairs. Both bodies is took away, but the young gal is in here, in the back room. Better step in and see for yourself." "Yes, thank you, I  should like to see Addie," returned the young lady, after a moment's thought. "In that room at the back of the hall, did you say?"      I Following Mr. Kennedy's guiding steps, the visitor stopped at the door he indicated, and knocked lightly before entering. She found a short and partly deformed girl rise to meet her, and Addie lying still unconscious on the table-bed. "I am a  friend," said the young lady, in answer to the un- checked look of inquiry and cold surprise on the odd-looking attendant's face. "My  name is Wharton-Alice Wharton; and this kind-hearted girl here was very good to me once. I should like to be able to do as much for her now."   A WIDOW.            225 "Nobody can do much just yet, Miss," replied Jenny, in a sad tone. "The doctor said she would get back her senses before this :time-that, these things seldom lasted so long; 'but she hasn't given a sign yet." "She's moving her eyelids now," whispered Miss Alice, belding tenderly over her, and watching the faint quivering motion in the lids with eager anxiety. The heavy folds of her long crape veil, which she had flung back -in entering, now came out of place, owing to hbr stooping position, and fell down upon the sleeper's face. Witl a sudden motion every nerve seemed to thrill and tremble at the contact, and the great black eyes opened wide and wild, but utterly without meaning in their wandering gaze. Miss Alice stepped back quickly.  "She is coming back now,' she said, confidently; "I have seen people affected in this way before-and she will soon begin to recognize every thing."  So saying, she took off and laid aside her street-dress, both bonnet and shawl, and took her station at one side of the bed, while Jenny Tod kept hers on the other. And so it fell out that Addie, struggling blindly and feebly through the long labyrinth of insensibility, came back at last into the world of knowing, feeling, and suffering, and opened her eyes with conscious sight upon those two faces, and read in both the anxious, earnest look that is born of love and interest. "I have been watched over, and somebody loves me!" was her first dim, half-formed thought; and, indistinct and wandering as it was, it gave her power to struggle with the second clearer and stronger one-"There has been murder here, and the blood is upon me and mine." "You must not talk or think, dear Addie," said Miss Alice, softly; " you are very weak and ill, and we are all so anxious that you should be well and strong again, that we are going to force you to be quiet." Addie smiled faintly, and showed her consciousness of the kind- ness that prompted the restriction, by turning her eyes thankfully from one face to the other. Jenny To placed her arm under -her head, and raised her up to 10*     226      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. take another draught of the physician's prescription; and, being thus lifted, she took in the improvements of thd apartment that surrounded her, and an expression of wondering ijleasure dawned on her face. Jenny, observing it, explained-- "Kitty and I thought we would make this room more cheerful and comfortable, by fixing it up nicely for you to get well in; and when you are well, then you can help us to do all the rest: but remember, you must get well first." "Where is Kitty?" asked Addie's eyes, as they roved around tie room in every direction. "Kitty has gone with Mr. Campbell up to his house to stay a little while with Miss Debby. She will be back soon; and when she sees how much better you look, it will be good news to her."' Addie's eyes turned and rested earnestly on the form of her young lady attendant, and the clear, full light of the beaming face fell answeringly and tenderly on her. There was something sooth- ing and healing in the look, that sank into her heart with a blessed meaning: "I may rest now a little, while I am watched and guarded from danger; and the battle will wait till I gain strength for the fight." So her eyelids gently closed, and her lips lost their blueness, and a soft warmth gathered into her cold face. Lightly and easily her breathing came and went, and faint natural color stole over her cheeks. "This is a good, healthful sleep," whispered Miss Alice; but, faint as the tone was, the closed eyes opened, and rested on her a moment before closing again. Then the two watchers withdrew to the other side of the room; and the young lady said, in a low tone, "I cannot stay long at a time, but I can come often ; and so I will do all I can to help you in your care. You are just the one to do all that can be done; and it was a blessed Providence brought you here, I'm sure." "I will do all I can," said Jenny, concisely; but she felt the earnest commendation of the young lady's words, and showed her consciousness of the pleasure of praise in a passing flush that lighted her pale face for a moment. Very softly, lest her motions might again disturb the light   A WIDOW.            227 slumber of ithe sick girl, Miss Alice put on the shawl and bonnet she had laid aside, and, before drawing the veil over her face, stood perplexed and irresolute a moment. At last she seemed to muster courage for a hard task, and, drawing the little nurse out- side the dodr, she began hurriedly- "You krow there must be things needed, and Miss Debby is not in a sta:e to be troubled about nioney; so that-indeed there is no use Cf talking-you must take this little purse, and buy whatever is asked for. It isn't for yourself, you know; so there's no excuse for your not receiving it. There--Ill be back again early in the morning, and bring a double wrapper that will be comfortable for Addie, and something else that I shall be able to think of by and by. God bless you for what you are doing! And now, good-night!" As she opened the front door quickly, somebody, dressed liko herself, all in black, fell back into the shadow of the side-lights, and stood- slrinking there as she ran down and entered the little plain carriage that stood in waiting. As it drove off and turned out of the street, the mourning figure came out of its recess, and softly tried the door. It was not bolted, for Jenny Tod was still standing, weighing the purse in her hand, in the hall, outside the workroom door.  When she saw it open, and the shadow of a woman in black revealed against the starlight, she thrust it into her bosom, and called out sharply- "What do you want? and who are you?" Thus unceremoniously addressed, the figure replied only, "Iush!" anpd swiftly advanced towards her. The door behind her was ajar, and the narrow. gleam of light it shed fell aslant over her face, as sihe paused close before the short figure of the crippled girl. It was a very handsome face, though twisted and strained out of natural expression, as if by severe bodily pain. Every thing on and about her was black, but not mourning. The shawl was velvet, aI d the dress was brocade. The bonnet, though black, was partly trimmed, as if other colors had been thrown aside to preserve the sombre hue uniform in the whole garb. "I want to see the errand girl," said this lady, and she spoke A Os "I wan t     228      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. as she looked, like one in whom a gnawing pain, or almost unen- durable agony, prevented thinking or speaking with ease or natu- ral expression. "The errand girl," repeated Jenny, with no knowledge of her meaning. "Addie," said the other, with a gasp or effort that seemed to accompany every word. "Oh, she is ill-too ill to be seen by strangers. The doctor has said that no one must disturb her by a word." "Is she in here?'"-with a motion towards the door. Without denying it, Jenny stepped before the threshold ; but the other thrust her aside, and passed in. She went directly up to the bed where Addie lay, and, leaning over, looked close into her sleeping face. Jenny was at her side in a moment. "You must not disturb her!" she said in a tone of command. "There is nothing that you can want to know from her that would repay the effort it would cost her to speak." The new-comer turned a strange look of humble, agonized pleading on her, and murmured in the same broken voice- "Let me remain near her till she wakes. I'll not stir nor speak till then." Jenny looked at her narrowly, and all at once a light broke upon her mind. "You are the lady that the poor young man was to be mar- ried to," she said. "I am his widow," answered the lady in black, and her voice was full of wailing. "Oh, do let me speak to her," she prayed. "There may have been a look or word for me; do let me speak to her." She stretched out her hand to touch the girl's shoulder, but Jennly caught it and held it fast. "If you startle her now you may put it out of her power ever to give you any satisfaction, for you may kill her. Remember she is only a child, and she has lived years of Irouble and terror in a few hours. Spare her a little rest, and when she's better she'll tell you every thing."   ADDIE'S FLIGHT.          229 When vill it be?" asked the other anxiously. "ome to-morrow night," said Jenny at a venture. But the lady lingered and watched every light movement eager- ly, looking distressed and disappointed when they ceased, and the soft regular breathing went on. Suddenly she turned towards Jenny, and asked, with a quick, half-petulant tone- "'Who ale you, then, and why are you here?" a I am a friend of Addie's, and I think you can guess what I am doing beside her." "Is she an orphan-a foundling? I thought I heard some one say so." Jenny shAok her head. "I cannot tell you: she never told me her story." "But she must want friends- or I mean there is no one to care for her in particular, is there? Cannot some one do something to hurry her recovery? Will money not be needed?' "She has friends, and there is no want of money," said Jenny coldly; and the lady, to whom her character of interested sympa- thizer seemea new and awkward, clasped her fingers nervously to- gether, and still stood looking longingly at the speaker. "  Oh, why does she rest so profoundly, while my heart and soul are yearning for one word?" she moaned; then she gathered her mantle up about her face, bowed her head and fled away out of the still open door, like an unhappy spirit. CHAPTER XXVII. ADDIE'S FLIGHT. THEI morning before that of Miss Norah's funeral, Mr. Siebert returned to the forsaken house to find poor Addie and her faithful nurse its only occupants. Even Mr. Kennedy had departed, and, except for ani occasional glance or two in the course of the day, appeared within its walls no more. From Jenny the artist learned     230      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. the illness to which the excitement of the late events had reduced her, but agreed, with the advice of his friend, the physician, that it was better not to see her. 'Ie went directly to the police-office, and gave in a statement of all he could say in reference to the yet unexplained circumstances of Mr. John Tracy's death. He knew that the deceased had money ; in fact, he had gone with him, on the evening before the painful occurrence, on his own way to the car-station, to deposit it at a banking-house. Mr. Tracy him- self had made the proposal. He had called a cab, and noticing Mr. Sichert's portmanteau in the hall, had volunteered to drive him to the depot, if he would first accompany him to the bank in question. He had consequently waited in the cab while Mr. Tracy carried in the money and returned with the checks, which he dis- posed of in his pockethook, while they proceeded on the rest of the way. Nothing in the young gentleman's manner had given the slightest uneasiness to his companion, if he excepted a nmoment- ary sadness that came upon him as they stood together on the platform. lie remembered the exact expression he used, and in recalling it afterwards had thought it singularly sad and forebod- ing for so gay a nature. "Good-by," he said; "and who knows whether we shall ever meet again? My life seems so changed and broken up of late, that if I lose sight of a friend for an hour, I can't tell whether I shall ever have him in view again." Then they had parted, and the painter knew nothing further of the case till he had. received the summons which had brought him home. About the door oonnecting with his room he could say absolutely nothing. TUntil the day of his leaving the city, a large press, in which he kept colors and various articles connected with his business, had stood before it. This piece of furniture was so cumbersome that he had long wished to exchange it for some more compact article, and meeting some such thing as he desired, had sent for a man to dispose of the lumbering closet the very morning of his departure, intending to replace it, on his return, with the less bulky cabinet, that could set cornerwise in another end of the room. His canvas, pencils, paints, and brushes were therefore huddled together on the lounge, as had transpired in the examination; but as to the state   ADDIE'S FLIGHT.          231 of the door-lock or bolt he could not say one word. He had found every thing in his own room undisturbed, and was confident no entrance from without could have been effected, The trellis was old ana rotten, and certainly could not support any one's weight; and gaining the windows without its aid was simply im- possible. Mr. Tracy and he had some little interests in common, which had d awn them into companionship more closely than per- sons of such different ages and pursuits could have otherwise have become. HT believed Mr. Tracy to have been a young gentleman of such noble qualities and upright principles as to be entirely without enemies. He had often heard him spoken of, and never with unkindn ess or disrespect. He now remembered to have heard it stated that the uncle of the deceased was not always on good terms with him; but he himself had no personal knowledge of these disagreement, nor had the younger Mr. Tracy ever referred to them in his 4resence. He knew that Mr. Tracy was about to be married, though there had been no direct confidence between them on the subject. Hle had seen the lady and gentleman meet, and, in fact, had s en them together on the very day of his departure. They were talking earnestly, the lady leaning from her carriage window, and the gentleman standing on the sidewalk.  They had not noticed him, so he had passed; but he had taken the impression that the lady was annoyed, from catching a few words. He recalled them now, and considered that it must have been their tone that so impressed him. They were-"Well, perhaps, it may turn out so; 1cut I fear I have been hasty and silly, without regard to consequences." That was early in the day. He could not say the precise hour, but certainly before noon. He had never seen Mr. Tracy in pos- session of any other article of jewelry than those found in his room after his deatl, and is of opinion that nothing had been abstracted therefrom. Addie still being too ill to give an account of her discovering the body, and the circumstances connected with it, no further ac- tion could be taken at that time, and the examination was held over.     232      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. Meantime, Jenny kept her place by the side of the sick girl faithfully, and Margaret, her sister, begged in vain to be allowed to share her cares. "You go up anid see Aliss Debby," she said. "You know how to get along with her better than Mrs. George Campbell does, if Kitty's account be true. I should think it would be a blessing to poor Miss Debby to be relieved from that woman's feeble pres- ence.7' "What does Kitty say?" asked her sister. "She went there last night, with Mr. George, to persuade her to eat a little gruel, and she says that they were settifig p ' for- nenst other,'--the poor, broken-hearted Miss Debby trying to en- dure her cousin-in-law, while she entertained her by asking if Miss NTorah had any preference for any particular kind of black. She was willing to wear any thing George suggested-and would Miss Norah have liked a wreath of japonicas on her coffin.? she was sure George would get one; and such-like consolation." "She's a kind enough creature, and was doing the best she knew," replied her sister, charitably; " but I'll go up there, since you won't let me stay here to help you. Bob is going to stay home with mother till every thing is settled; and all the girls have been at our house to see if it would be taken as out of place if they walked to the funeral." Addie was sleeping: whether it was the physician's work or na- ture's, she had slept at odd times half the hours since she had comne back to consciousness the night before. Now, Jenny glanced 'towards her, and withdrew, in company with her sister, to the other end of the room. "If they would only bury the young man," she whispered, mys- teriously, "Addie would get well. She seems so impressed with the idea that while he's above-ground there is something that she can do, or should do, that she starts up and cries out, wringing her hands, and appearing in a perfect agony of distress." "They will have that all over to-morrow. Some say Miss Far- ron was married to him. The house is shut up, and,nobody can see Miss Julia when they call."   ADDIE S FLIGHT.          233 "Hum," said Jenny, and remembered the tryst she had given the lady in black for that evening, not without some anxiety for her patient. "What do you think about it, Jenny?  You're sharp, you know, and have eyes like a hawk for what's going on-they say it wasn't clearly made out that he shot himself. While I was sick that day, Bob brought me such contradictory stories, that mother was in and out all day through the court, first telling the neigh- bors one thing and then goinag back to explain it into another. The papers act just the same; and how are you to know? Who would murder a man for nothing; and how could a murderer escape and no one know it?"  As she asked the question Addie sat upright, and looked at her with wildly gleaming eyes. "Yes, yes," she said, "you're right; it could not be-it must be a mistake--he did not-" But before she could get further, Jenny ran to her and forced her back upon her pillow, motioning her sister to leave, with a ges- ture so peremptory, that Miss Tod made no further delay. "Hold your to guie, Addie!" cried her attendant, in a sharp whisper; "don't speak for your life-you must have time and thought before you decide on what you shall say." Addie fixed her eyes upon her at these words, and took so much of her advice as to remain quiet-in fact absolutely speechless with fear. But her gaze fastened itself, with all its intensity, upon her face, and stroye to draw out the meaning of her words, though full of dread at their purport. "Are you better now?" asked Jenny, kindly, but in a voice full of seriousness. Addie, without speaking, signified that she was unable to hear any thing, and looked towards the door. "I'll lock it. Kitty is making tea, and the wood is damp, so there'll be time enough to speak before she's ready. "Addie, I know your trouble, or I know enough of it to see that you can't stand up and answer on your oath the questions that will be put to you. Don't sink off in fright, for I'm as true I          ,     234      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. to you as your own soul; and no one knows, or ever will know, that I know it. But you must work wnith tme, or it'll all be in vain. That beautifll woman that the poor young gentleman loved was here, and she will be here again to-night: there was no use in try- ing, to keep her away. Sh1e never had any feeling in her life, but ier' love for him ; and this blow has changed her so, that I scarcely knew her, though I hfad seen her often before. She'd follow you to the end of the earth, if she thought there was any thing held back, so you must leave it to me to meet her now. After this you must think with me, and whatever you mean to do I'll help you." Addie groaned aloud. "Don't be a coward, or I'll let you fightt your battle alone," said Jenny, warningly. Instantly the sick girl sat upright, and her face flushed. "Oh, Jeinny Tod," she cried, " you have no right to soil your soul in such black work as this. Call me a coward  Jenny, I shall be worse than that, I shall be a liar, a murderer, a wretch, too base and vile to breathe, an'l all to save one who has done the foulest wrong to me and mine." "Quick, lie down-there's Kitty on the stairs," and Jenny flew to the door and hastily unlocked it, whilst Addie sunk back and closed her burning eyes. She tried to think, but could only shudder at the pictures thrown like bas-reliefs against the gloomy terror of her soul. She found herself clinging to Kitty's words for refuge for her own fancies, as she spake of the fire below and the clhillicess of the early spring night; then she tried to swallow the tea she carried for her, and answer her questions about her head. "Miss Debby sint her love to ye-think of that," said Kitty, kindly. "Sure you and me must strive hard to be able to make things aisy for her sore heart." "Yes," gasped Addie. "Faith, Mr. George Campbell would lay lhis hair under her feet to make it aisy walking, he's that sorry for her and that anxious to make her forgit her throuble. You and me will do whativer can be done for the same ind. Won't we, Addie?"   ADDIE'S FLIGHT.          235 "Yes, surely." "Im going wup again to-night, to see if I can't prevail wid her to talke a drop mnore of gruel. She will be axingr me about ye, and what will I say to her?" "Tell her, "  said Addie,--"tell her"--she paused and looked, hlelplessly at Jiuny, then she sank back upon her pillows, murmur- ing--"I am not worth her thought." "Are any of uz?" said Kitty, with decision. "If it was worth or raal goodness was the measure, few of uz would stand the test; but her that's gone and-her that's left is beyant judging hard of any one. lvlis, Norah was like an angel all her life, and death had little change to make, to fit her for Paradise." "I always liked Miss Debby  best," remarked Jenny Tod, shortly but emphatically. "You," cried Kitty, turning on her with sudden fierceness- "Tou liked, indade! You niver laid your eyes on aither above half a dozen times, and what could you take it upon yersilf to say?" "I don't often waste words," said Jenny, coolly, "but P'm going to do so now, for I'll tell you how I know what people are and what they are trying to do, without seeing or watching them daily, as other people do. I never forget a word I hear; and I question here and there, to piece out a pattern in my own mind, a When I get it all complete, one day's report with another, I roll it up and lay it away in my memory; and when the time comes that I need to know why people act oddly, or why they contradict their former lives and puzzle the world, I take out my web and trace it all over till I come to crooked threads that show me where the work was imperfect,- and why it d-on't wear well. Remember, Kitty, I've been a sick, aching creature all my life-a cripple, as you say; and if I thought of myself always, I should go mad re- peating my own pains. So I think of everybody, the everybody that I know, and I make everybody that comes to me bring me all I want to hear, without knowing that they gather shreds and odds and ends of words and actions, to make a great'patch-bag for me to work from."     236      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "Och, you and likes of ye always will have quare ways; but I thought it was paper-cutting ye was talking about. Sure that was what ycr sister said ye could do; and I don't make out yer maniug about piecing out people thilnsilves." "Don't try, Kitty," said Jenny, soothingly. "It wouldn't be worth the time it took; but remember, you must go soon, or poor Miss Debby, the kind merry Miss Debby that used to be, will be pining without her grutel.'" "I'll go when I swally a drop of tay. I'll be late out, for I'd stay all night watcling by her if it wasn't the haythenish way they have of locking up the corpse in a room by itself, as if they were afeard of it. Sorra a wake could I get for ye, Miss Norah darling, though there's thim that would set by ye a week widout closing an eye, though ye did die in a strange land, far from thim that know'd ye in yer bloom."         I{ Uttering this apostrophe to her dead mistress with streaming eyes, Kitty covered her face with her apron and went away. IA little later she paused at the door, her eyes still red with weeping, though shaded by her great calash of a bonnet, and gave Jenny charge concerning an expected visit from some of the boys. "Phil Roouey, or maybe Mary Brady and young Pat Doyle, will come up the lingth wid thim," she said; " they'll be unaisy about AMiss Norah's funeral, for I couldn't give thim the time, not knowin' mesilf. You'll jist give thim a word, Jenny dear, 4if ye plase; telt 'll go up to Rooney's airly in the mornin', an' let thim know about what time to go up to Mr. George's." Jenny readily accepted this charge, and promised that the Doyles and Rooneys should be satisfied on all points. So Kitty, givingl Addie a keen, parting glance, took her way to West Bond- street. Then Addie rose and sat up, holding her head between her wasted hands. "Let me get upon my feet, Jenny," she said. "I'm so wretch- edly weak and dizzy, that I can't think as I see here." "No, don't move; for, if you cannot meet that lady, your only escape is feigning to wander in your mind. You're burning in   ADDIE'S FLIGHT'.          237 fever. God help you; it will be little effort for you to act such a part."  "t No, Jenny. I have not the heart to deceive her. I must get up. I can do nothing as I lie-here." Jenny thought a moment, and then, without a word, rose and brougrht her clothes and shoes, and put them down beside her. "You will see how. useless your plan is," she then said, " for you have not the strength to put them on." But Addie proved herself stronger than her nurse suspected, for though she trembled and faltered in her first efforts to rise, she soon mastered her weakness, and stood out upon the floor fully clad. "But I'm cold, Jenny," she said, "very cold; get me my big shawl-do, dear, and then I shall feel like myself again." Jenny, who seemed bent on humoring her whim, obeyed, and took down from a corner-press, and unfolded, a large thick shawl, and laid it about her shoulders. Just then a quick, sharp rattle came to the back-gate, and Jenny looked annoyed as she listened. "Oh! it is those bothering Irish,) she said, petulantly; "and you must be left here alone while I go down and give them Kitty's message." a Go, and never think of me; I shall find some way out of my troubles, maybe, when I am left to myself." "I'l .be back as soon as I can get them  to understand what Kitty said," and Jenny made haste as the knockling, began to be repeated, and hurried down the-kitchen stairs. It was Phil Rooney, accompanied by Mary Brady and young Pat Doyle, as Kitty had predicted; and so much had all three to ask, and so many ejaculations did they utter, that Jenny was fain to set down the lamp she carried, and go into a slow, methodical repetition of what she had undertaken to tell. "Oh! but it's a quare business any way," said Mary Brady; "they're all tallking about it among the quality, and some say one thing and some another; but, to my thinking', Kitty Donahue is none too well off, wid such doings going on around her."     238      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "You wouldn't have her up, and give warning to lave, bekase trouble came to the house, would ye?" asked Phil Rooney, with some indignation. "I'd not be slaving mesilf to kape up what must go down," said Mary, meaningly. "Kitty thinks Ameriky and Ireland is one place, whin there's many a broad differ betune thim.' "K Iitty's the creature is true to thim that was always true to her,' said Pat Doyle; " and so she should. The Macllroys were always iligant people, if it wasn't for the trouble they met wid. I niver thought it was so wise in the ladies to change their names for the fashion of it; but I respicted them always, and I'll be as proud to go to Miss Norah's funeral as if she was buried in the family vault at the ould place at home." "Now, good people," said Jenny, shortly, "I'Im sorry to hurry you off, for it seems rude, but we can't stand on looks here. I have a sick girl up-stairs that I'm leaving while I talk to you, and that's my excuse for saying good-night at once." "' Is it Addie that's ailing?" asked Mary Brady, in nowise hur- ried by this short dismissal. "Yes; and she'll be worse if I'm kept away from her," said Jenny. 'Phil, do you mind that little thing that always came with Kitty?  She's lying very low in a delerious faver, they say. What a quare little sowl she was, wid her odd, quick ways. What do you say, Pat, to sitting here a bit, while I go up and give her a word or two?" "It would do her no good at all to have you see or speak to her," urged Jenny, decidedly--"indeed, I would not let you; she has been too ill." "And what harm would the sight of me do her?" asked the offended visitor, drawing her shawl around her, and pursing up her lips to suppress her rising indignation. "Kitty Donahue laves a quare represintative to insult her company, I think." "I don't mean to insult you, I'm sure; and if you will take offence I'm sorry for it, but I mu'lst go up-stairs, and Addie isn't well enough to see any one, as Kitty herself will tell you."   ADDIE7S FLIGHT.          239 Without waiting for further parley, Jenny opened the kitchen- door leading up into the yard, and motioned to her guests to de- part by the way they had come. The young men were not slow to take her at her word, and between them they drew the still indignant Mary up the stairs and out, into the yard, still expressing herself ,entirely disgusted "wid sich ways and sich doins."  Left to herself, Jenny barred the door and flew up the kitchen staircase to the workroom that used to be, thankful to be freed from her troublesome guests. As she reached its door, a sudden ring at the hall-bell over her head made her pause, with her hand on the knob. "It is she," she said to herself, and stopping an instant to con- sider, she opened the door and spoke without looking in. "Addie,' she said, "Miss Farron is here. There is but one thing for you to do, and I'll help you to do it. Lie down and be sleeping."l' Then she withdrew her head, and walked slowly along the hall towards the door. Having reached it, she stopped again, though the ring was repeated; then she threw it wide open. The same lady of the night before, dressed in the same way, stood there; but her half-cowering, half-eager manner was increased, and: sho drew back hastily when the door opened, and then hurried for- ward, catching Jenny's arm, and whispering- "You promised me, remember!-you promised me that she should speak to me to-night!" "Come inf' was all the reply Jenny made; and she followed her through the hall into the room, through whose slightly ajar door the light streamed out in a narrow bar upon the faded carpet. Jenny went in, and, setting down the light she still carried, walked towards the bed. It was empty, and she turned about quickly and looked around her in an amazed way on all sides. Tlhe lady's looks followed hers, and partly reflected their astonished meaning.                       r "Where is she?" cried Jenny, with so true an accent of aston- ishment that her companion never' for an instant doubted its sin-,     240      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. cerity, but stood rooted to the floor, watching the strange search that then began, first in one corner, then in another, overturning every thing, and lifting and throwing aside separate parcels, as if the missing girl had been a stray article. Suddenly the true sense of what had happened came with a flash upon her, and she caught up her lamp and flew up the stairs from room to room of the lonely echoing place, and down again, with heedless force, forget- ting her lameness, and springing as lightly as one who had never halted. When she reached the deserted workroom again, she threw down the lamp and gathered a cloak around her shoulders. "What has become of that girl?" demanded the lady, in a tone of mingled fear and impatience. She was deadly white, and wrung her hands like one who had lost a last hope to which she had clung in despair. "She's gone l" cried Jenny, in gasps-"Heaven only knows where 1 But Ill pursue her to the world's end, to save her and share her trouble." So saying, she darted past the wretched lady, down the front-steps, into the night, where the wind was blowing cold and shrill, and the sky was black with clouds, leaving the desolate figure alone in the desolate house. CHAPTER XXVIII. MIDSUMMER AGAIN. MIDSUMMER-NIGHT had come again, and Kitty Donahue, drawing her shawl around her, prepared to go out for the evening. It had come and gone many a time since the night she had spent with Addie at the Rooneys; for seven long years had past since then, and Kitty had not stood still in their flight. They had brought healing in their wings, and their breath had a lulling power that tempered the pangs of memory. She was a less miserable, and, therefore, a much gentler woman than in times past; and, though   MDSUMMER AGAIN.           241 dhe smoothed her face into solemnity, and sighed with some pro- fundity, as she reached the place of her destination: it was more in honor of the occasion than an outlet to her own feelings. It was at the dwelling of the Doyle family she stood; and a long streamer of crape waved from the closed window and from the door-handle; for old Christy had been gathered to his fathers at last, and his wake was the midsummer frolic of the girls and boys. Out of no disrespect to his memory-for he had been well treated and carefully attended to the lasts; but, among the simple class to which he belonged, death was natural and inevitable, and, coming in the fulness of years, was utterly without terror or dis- tress; so they prepared to gather round him for the last time, and keep up their games and jokes in his unconscious presence. Kitty was late in coming, as the opening door disclosed ; for all her friends were there before her, and a hushed but not unchccrful hum of converse was going on. The Doyles, owing to their numn- bers, were obliged to have a larger house than their friends tile Rooneys, although it boasted but little more of style or pretension. The front-door opened uncompromisingly into a sitting-room; but within was a bedchamber, of much comparative grandeur, that had been Christy's especial apartment ever since the family had lived there. There he now lay, in all the splendor of a mahogany coffin and "a bran new shuit of broadcloth," as the approving neighbors said; and " it did the- Doyles credit," they added, "be- kase thim that does well by the ould and helpless has a good chance themsilves when their time comes." "How are ye, Kitty?" and, "What way's on ye, good woman?" weire the exclamations that greeted her on all sides as she entered; for, in right of her determination of charact r and decided temper, Kitty was a person of consequence among I er friends, and always greeted on all occasions with distinguished f vor. Now she seated herself between Mr. aid Mrs. Phil Rooney, after summarily ridding herself of her outer garments, and entered into friendly inquiries after those of the family not present. "Sally's not ailing, I hope," she said; and ivhere's little Phil? Why but ye brought him up wid ye, that I might have tuck a r. /l     242      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. look at him? It's a long time since I did ; and I could tell ye if he was growing." "More shame for ye, Kitty!" said Mrs. Phil, late Mary Brady. "Why but ye come up and take a sup of tay wid us on a Sunday night? Sure yer not tied to yer work as ye used to be." "No, indade-I'm at me own disposal half the time, Mary; but whin a body gets the way of kaping to the house, it's hard to take to running the strates." "Thrue for ye; but I've been running up to Christy ivery minute of me time for the last fortnight; for the poor ould body tuck sich a notion to young Phil, that he seemed to fale aisier and cheerfuller wid him nor any one else. Sure he'd set, wid him standin' beside him, whin he was too wake to lift him on his knee, telling' him ould stories about fairies and banshees and the like of that, till the boy's that full of sich quare doings that we don't know what to do to him." Kitty heaved a sigh. "Och, it makes me think of poor little Addie," said she. "Do ye mind the night ould Christy tould about the White Lady at Castle Downie?  That was the great night to her; she was so full of her talk whin we got home, that I couldn't close me eyes in slape for the gabbing she kept up." "Is it that little thing that used to be up at the lady's wid you that yer talking about, Kitty?" asked Phil Rooney. "Mary, I was the first one she ever danced with, and I don't think I'll ever forget the innocent delight of the crayture. Sure she was just like a baby in the want of guile." Mrs. Rooney tossed her head. "She was too quare to suit me, though she seems to have come over some folk wid her airs. The night she made off wid herself, and give the trouble to her betters that she did, I says to me mother-in-law, says I, ' That young divil always had the looks of one that would bring sorrow on thim thar know'd her; and so she has.' And me mother-in-law says to me, says she, 'Yer right, Mary; I niver could see what it was in her that Kitty tuck a fancy to.'" "( That was bekase neither Mrs. Rooney nor yersilf sees much beyant yer nose," said Kitty, bluntly. "I niver thought half of the   MDSUMMER AGAIN.          243 girl that she desarved to have thought of her; nor was it iver in me power to show her the raal falings of me heart. If she's living this day, God bliss her, and kape her, says I; and more nor me, and better nor me, says the same,. Mrs. Doyle crossed her arms over her breast and heaved a sigh. "Poor little crayture!" she said, compassionately; "she was often in the ould man's mind, and many's the time whin he's been sitting, thinking quiet-like to himself, he's turned round to me, say- ing, 'Rosy, I don't belave that little cuttle that wint wrong in her mind, and wandered off from the ladies, house after the trouble, was to blame, as some say she was. What would the like of her have to hide, or what would a little innocent crayture, wid her heart on her lips whin she spoke to ye, do wid flying from the law? Sure she had a faver, and wandered off to the water and was lost.' Many's the time he would talk this way, and sometimes he'd shake his head and the tears would come in his eyes for the poor little thing floating away in the wide sea, widout a friend to send a tear or a tinder word after her." "He's wrong there ; the tears that have been shed over her would have done honor to a princess, so they would. I've seen Miss Debby hersilf more broken-hearted and sorrowful whin she talked of Addie, nor when she laid her own darlint sister in the grave."  "Small cause for sich bother," observed Mary Rooney. "If it wasn't for that crippled imp up at yer place beyant, nobody would remimber to mintion her; but it's a low come-down day to Miss Debby, that she mixes wid-the likes of thim, and I don't know how you, that was always sticking up for the family pride, can bring yer mind to it aither, Kitty Donahue." "It's a great thing to fale at aise and pace at last, Mary dear," remarked Kitty, sententiously. "I've been buffeted about a good bit in me time, and I niver felt so quiet-like as I do now. Thin why should I be bothering me head about style and grandeur? Faith it's time I lamed I was in Ameriky, where they take no notice of sich things, they say, and-where nobody takes a thQught about yer beginnings, if yer endings are right."     241      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "Mother," interrupted young Pat at this juncture, "' the girls and boys want to play 'Meddling Bob.' Do ye know where that crooked stick is that grandfather used to play it with?" "No thin, I don't; bekase we haven't had the game since last Hallow-e'en, when he tuck part in it himsilf, poor body. Sure ye won't be able to do it at all widout him to the fore, to conduct it for ye." "Ould Jimmy Brady's here, and he knows it well. We're sit- ting like stocks and stones-no one has a word for another-so we'd better make a little sport, nor to disgrace the poor ould man that was iverly fond of a bit of innocent fun himsilf, so he was." "Well, if nobody can lade off, I'll do it mesilf," said Kitty, with spirit. "As Pat says, it's jist a disgrace to give ould Christy no fun at his wake, whin he would be the last to trate another so. Do ye mind the night him and us wint up to Mrs. Morrow's and lielped to lay out the corpse? We made him brew the punch, for it was a sharp night, and he cracked jokes and told ould stories till it was daylight, afore we know'd the night was half over." "Ahl" sighed his daughter-in-law, "it was himself could do it whin he had his spirits up, but ye'll not find his like to carry on aither a wedding or a wake." "Here's young Pat wid the sticks; now take yer places, and I'll be Bob mesilf," said Kitty, rising. "It's many a day since I did the like, but I'll try if there isn't a bit of fun in me yet." By the sequel it proved that there was a good deal of that buoyant commodity still remaining in the, composition of that mus- cular female, Catharine Donahue; for when she gave her speech and action full play the mirth was unlimited, and the silent figure in the other room had no cause of complaint against the spirits of its wakers. It may have been the rarity of Kitty's assuming the position of merry-maker that added zest to the entertainment, but certain it is that there was no want of ready laughter or keen appreciation. Orderly, and a trifle more subdued than at a less solemn event, the games and stories succeeded each other till midnight, when there was produced a mingled style of refreshment. Cordial and sweet   MDSUMMER AGAIN.           215 cakes for the ladies, punch and pipes for the gentlemen. None of the gentler sex retired before the tobacco fumes, but the soothing influence of the weed gave a quieter tone to the entertainment, and reminiscences of the life and character of their late companion suc- ceeded the gayer proceedings. Every one present recalled some- thing of a gentle, tender memory, that beautified the now closed pages of a finished life. Each brought to light some hidden good, and lingered fondly over some kindly act of him whose worlk was done. Sometimes it was the repeated record of a past generation as--"My grandfather tould me he saw Christy op his wedding-day, and heard a song he sung that was aiquil to the voice of a thrush on a spring morning ;" or, "Ould Biddy Mahony was telling me uncle that Christy used to be the best wrestler on Castlereagh Hill; and that he was so good-natured, it was a saying among the  boys at the time, 'It was well for the girl that got a husband wid sich a stout arm and mild timper."' Then Mrs. Doyle, his daughter-in-law, bare record: "He was the kindliest crayture among childer that iver breathed the breath of life; he would kape thim in divarsion the lingth of a summer day, and whin he was so wake that ivery move of his body brought on coughing and shaking, he would niver refuse to have a little game wid thim, but would say, ' Sorra on me for a grunting ould fellow, why should I spoil their sport wid me complainings?' Hle was a thrue Christian in his ways, though he made no great show of being betther nor other people. Whativer was God's will he give into widout a murmur, and was always thanking Him for sich blessings as fell to his lot." "Troth, it would be well for uz if there was more like him," was the chorus of comment on these premises. "Sure he was anl example to uz all, so he was, and blessed be his rest in glory this night!" After driving away melancholy by simple mirth, and bearing testimony to the virtues of her departed friend with his most ear- nest admirers, Kitty arose as the day was breaking, and putting on her street attire, took an unceremonious though kindly farewell of her friends.     246      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "I'll be in at the funeral," she promised ; "but I'll not be able to come in before then, bekase Miss Tod is busy, and we all lind a hand when the worlk's throng." CHAPTER XXIX. T O D S E ST ABLIS HME NT. So saying, she departed, though not in the direction of the court, of which, in former times, the Tod family was the ornament and glory. Nor yet did her steps tend to the great old mansion, once the emporium of taste and fashion. That neighborhood she never looked towards since the day she had taken her hurried departure, haunted with the dread that she might be followed and drawn back to some unknown doom for her share and complicity in the mystery that hung about the sad story  of the young lodger. But no one had laid a detaining hand upon her; and, as day after day glided into months and years, custom had become security, and she had lost her dread of what might come, but not of what had been; so she never once turned her face thitherward, and had no knowledlge of who now dwelt in the house, once the home of the ladies, and the place wherein the darling of her life had breathed her last. The house Kitty ascended the steps of, in the soft clear sun- shine of a summer morning, was a neat and unpretending dwelling, i;     with no further sign of business about it than a black and gilt let- tered tin, bearing the words: "Miss Tod's Fashionable Millinery;" but, as Kitty had said, there were "throng times," and abundance of employment for the few hands enlisted in the business during the regular seasons. As successor to a portion of the custom and patronage of her former employers, Miss Tod had still retained some of the peculiar style and arrangements, on a smaller scale, belonging to the old   TOD'S ESTABLISHMENT.          247 establishment; but, whilst there was less space and pretension, there was infinitely more comfort and attractiveness. As Kitty touched the door-handle, it opened, to disclose Mrs. Tod, armed with a loug-handled brush and broom, and, though still in respectable black, shielded from spot or stain in a large apron. The perspective of clear, bright oilcloth, and a neat hat- rack and hall-chairs, that appeared behind her figure, promised well for the general management of the establishment, and, in freshness and brightness, gave strong evidence in Mrs. Tod's favor, since Kitty Donahne had no such weakness as a love of scouring and burnishing in her nature. "Oh, there you are, Kitty!" said Mrs. Tod, cheerily. "I didn't expect you back nowhere as early as this. Sez I to myself, sez I, I'll bet any thing Kitty'll stay till the funeral's over, and never remember how she give me a promise to take me with her." "To be sure I remimbered; and, of coorse, I wouldn't lave Miss Debby widout a sowl to wait on. her ; and more nor likely she's laid up wid a headache this morning." ' She's jist up as lively as a lark already, for. I heard her open- ing her window and setting out her bird." "The light of Hiven shine on her!" murmured Kitty, fervently; "she's a jewel of good-nature and swateness! What'll I be get- ting ready for breakfast, Mrs. TFod?1" "Well, I don't know," said that lady, pausing in her ardlent window-brushing, and whisking the dust off the low marble-facing in front of the house. "Let's see--there's a couple of chops for the girls, and there's eggs for 1Miss, Debby; you might just stew a  morsel of that weal for me, if you liked, with a little butter- thickening in the gravy, and a sprig of parsley on the dish ; and don't forget the toast, Kitty, and let the milk bile afore you set on the coffee." Armed with these instructions, Kitty descended to her duties, and, hanging her bonnet and shawl in the lower entry, gave her- self a  partial shower-bath under the sink, as a refresher after her night's vigil, before commencing the active work of breakfast- malking. Mrs. Tod's culinary department shone in strong contrast     248      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. to the old kitchen of Kitty's own supremacy. All that cleanliness and tidyness could do to make a place cheerful was done here, and, yielding to the influence of example, Kitty herself had become much more apt as a cook and general worker. At present, she applied herself industriously to the broiling and stewing, and, at intervals in these employments, laid the cloth on a round table in the centre of these large kitchen, which, owing to the back parlor's serving as work and sitting-room, was devoted to the family dining as well as cooking. When these preparations were well-nigh completed, a hobbling step on the stairs without was followed by the entrance of Jenny, the least changed in all these years of the whole household. Perhaps a shade of hardness and a tone of asperity had added itself to the keen face and sharp voice of the little cripple; but she looked no older or more fully grown, and was as quick in her movements and as little inconvenienced by her infirmity as ever. Her relations with Kitty had altered materially since their first encounter over the sick-bed of Addie; and now standing in the light of a sort of mistress, she could well afford to forget the past, and be civil almost to conciliation. "So there you are, busy at work, Kitty," she said pleasantly. "I was telling mother not to expect you, and that I would come down and attend to breakfast, while she did her invariable polish- ing up of the front." "Sure I wouldn't lave ye wid as much work as there is on yer hands this week, forbye promising yer mother to take her to ould Christy's funeral." Jenny was casting a critical glance over the table--quickly set on some missing articles, and rearranged some others. "Why, what on earth sets mother off in such a way?" she said lauglhing. "She never saw old Mr. Doyle in all her life, and why she should be one of his mourners no one can guess. But every one has odd notions at times, Kitty, and mine at present is to eat breakfast without being choked by meat-smoke; so please put that window up, or I'll put chops and gridiron both out in the area." "What 's wrong with the chops?"' cried the cheery voice of her   TOD'S ESTABLISHMENT.          249 elder sister coming down the stairs, and calling back as she came: "Miss Debby, it sounds as if breakfast was ready, so you had better not begin work till we have our coffee." Miss Tod had grown stout and rosy, and was merrier and better humored than ever, like a good apple ripened in the sun of worldly success. She was coinfortable in seeing others so, and hearinng that the chops in broiling had offended the delicate nose of her sister said: "No matter about them, as far as I am concerned; but do have those eggs for Miss Debby-it is the only dish she cares for in the morning." Mrs. Tod and Miss Debby'here descended the stairs together, the former dwelling feelingly on the mysterious habit of dirt in col- lecting in street corners, and being "jist as contrairy as pigs is when you try to drive 'em," in its efforts against dislodgment by brooms, etc. Still robed in mourning, as if her loss were but a day old, and paler and older and grayer than a woman of her years should be, Debby Macllroy was handsomer, and more clearly asserted her likeness to her dead sister than she had ever done before. She was not as gay or as ready in outspoken merriment as she used to be; but she was evidently much happier and more at rest in her secret soul than she had ever been in the days of her loudest mirth. She answered Mrs. Tod's complaints against the street dust with feeling interest, and complimented the housewifely skill that pre- vailed so completely over its artifices. Then she saw Kitty, and welcomed her with a  kind, good-humored smile. "For I  had more faith in you than the rest of the family, you see. I knew you'd be here, but they thought you'd wait till the funeral was over. Well, Kitty, and what kind of a wake did they give old Christy?  I must be growing old, for I remember him a hale, ruddy-looking man, without a sign of age about him." "Ye might aisy do that, Miss Debby, and not be very ould. Sure, it's not long since I saw him lade off in a dance wid ould Mrs. Rooney; and he was as light on his foot as if he wasn't more nor a  lad. And what do ye think, Miss Debby, young Pat and his mother was telling me that he niver forgot that night; it was mid- "*     250      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. summer, siven years ago-and I tnck little Addie wid me to lear about the fairies. I'll nivcr lose the sight of the little crayturo dancing w id Phl, as bould and aisy as if she had been at every fair and pattern ill Icrland taking lessons." Miss IDebby set down the cup she had raised to her lips, and sighed deeply. Then she fell to tracitngl out the pattern of the tablecloth in an absent manner, apparently forgetting her break- falst; and this was what she always did when the lost girl's name was mentioned. "Poor Addie," said Miss Tod, sadly; "she was the last being I should ever have suspected of going wrong in her mind and wan- dering off as she did ; but somehow I've often thought we were all mistakenl in ther, and that she deceived us by her apparent simpli- city and ignorance. You know, Miss Debby, she was too old to have knownll nothing .about herself or her early life ; yet no one ever Ileard her speak a single wuord, or allude in any way to it. I went ,withl Miss Norah to the Almshouse whlen we were looking for a girl, and when the matron could not get one to suit us she suddenly bethought herself, and said : 'There is one that I know of, but I don't believe you could have her bound to you. She's not exactly a pauper, and don't come directly under the charge of the Guardians of the Poor; but if you would like to try her, I think you'll find her a good girl, and an honest one.' Well, I believe that Addie knew where to go to when she went away, and that she is neither lost or crazy." Miss Debby sighed again, and continued her inspection of the linen pattern anud her unconsciousness of the waiting coffee. Jenny snaplped off her bites of toast in a pettish way. "What is the use of wasting words, Mag?" she said, sharply; "you know nothing about the matter, and when you get through surmnising you have only lost your breath for nothing. Mr. George Campbell and family have returned from Paris." "AVho told you so, Jenny?" asked Miss Debby, coming out of her abstraction, and applying herself to her cold coffee. "The morning paper," responded Jenny, briefly. "How unlucky-in the busy time 1" exclaimed her sister.   TODfS ESTABLISHMENT.          251 "SThey'll not want to see me for awhile, I hope-and a fort- night will see us through with our hurry," said Miss Debby, con- solingly. "I'll bet ye what ye like,-Mr. George will be here to-day," cried Kitty, dashing away any such hope from her mistress. "Then you'll be on your guard, Kitty, that's all, and show him up-stairs into my sitting-room, saying that I'll be there in five min- utes, which will give me a-chance to get the threads off my dress and the work out of my hand."' Miss Debby, it must be known, was the real head of the establish- ment still, though, to her cousin's eyes, simply a boarder and lodger under her former manager's roof. The poor girl could not account for the state of her monetary affairs, and was therefore forced to the subterfuge of preferring the independence of boarding -in a stranger's house to being a guest under her cousin's roof. This decision had given :Mr. George such offence that, for a time, he had resolved to turn his back, once and forever, on the name and race of glacIlroy; but such a resolution never could be carried out when opposed by so large a heart as governed the rather fickle mind of that gentle- man, and he was fain to give in after a week of puffings and swell- ings of empty wrath, and say that the truth was-they all be- longed to a hipped family, and there was no use in opposing mad people. So to Miss AMargaret Tod's, with whom she had secretly planned and covenanted to the effect of producing the present establish- ment, Miss Debby removed herself, some three months after her sister's funeral, and there she had dwelt in increasing peace and harmony ever since. The bitter knowledge that his cousin was still an active milliner was spared poor Mr. George, who had suf- ficiently sunk under the strange hallucination which led her to herd with the class, without that last ignominious blow. A large family, of whom he had never been able to acquire a clear and distinct knowledge, had somehow struggled up about him under the feeble auspices of his wife; and about three years after his cousin had utterly thrown him off, according. to his own view of her action in relation to the Tods, it had suddenly become     Z022      ThiN\ I ALALD UI A h1ji LTiiii(i apparent to his paternal instincts that Paris, a nd Paris only, was  the place wherein to seek certain somethings that even his super- ficial observation found wanting in his household of girls. With hi-, cousin Norah lie would have taken counsel concerninog this Journey; but beyond begging that Debby would for once lay aside :her habitual insanity and accompany them, he made her no further confidant in his plans. Mrs. George had, in the manner of a diffi- cult recitation, repeated tlhis invitation, and been met with a like gentle, grateful, but decided refusal, and there her care and trouble t ended; for somehow, in her dim understanding one idea settled  ! itself into breadth and strength-which was, that the French would I 1henceforth be more responsible and chargeable than she concerning  tlhe brood she was about to place under their fostering charge; and i such a transfer involved some personal relief and comfort. The two elder girls, Rose and Lily Campbell, she had some years before abjured in favor of a splendid-looking Parisian, who had exiled herself from her native heaven to be a missionary to such mothers as she by keeping a young ladies' boarding- school, of an expensive and therefore superexcellent character.  So these young maidens abode under the shadow of the rich silks and exquisite laces of this Minerva, and saw their paternal roof but once a quarter. Wl ith Aunt Debby their acquaintance had been extremely limit- ed, Aunt Norah being the one they usually met on their home visits, and until recalled to attend the funeral of "the hlandsome aunt," as they usually styled her, had but little knowlodge of the nature or manner of their remaining relative. During that sad time Rose, who, by some strange freak of nature, was a sensible, earnest girl, conceived a deep and lasting regard for the poor mourner, and had been, in the way of letters, a very fervent plead- er for her aunt's society in the projected tour. Lily, who was quick, lively, and impressible, had been equally anxious, but whilst both were disappointed, the elder had been a faithful correspondent, determinedly making her absent aunt share in all their plans and pleasures. Of late, these epistles, very eagerly and gratefully read by the lonely woman, had been   very irregular, owing to the changing scenes of their experience; but although coming back had been hinted at frequently, no de- cided time of return had been named, and Jenny's announcement startled and surprised nMiss Debby out of her pleasure in the pros- pect of seeing her nieces. Now she rose, and excusing her meagre breakfast on the grounds that she must do something directly lest Kitty's prophecy come true and her Cousin George present himself for the remainder of the morning- "There are all those caps and lace trimmings for the christening party at Leonard's, you know," she said to Miss Tod. "I had better do that now, because it will be the first order needed." "And, oh, Miss Debby, please do remember those bows, that no one but you know how to make for that wedding hat of Miss Wharton's. Dear me, it's the oddest thing to think of her getting married at last. I wish, Jenny, you'd have had the wit to ask who to, when the order was left." "I'll do it all, but I must begin at once; and, Jenny, you can cut out the trimmings, and help me, so that we'll get done in time." s "You can take a  cold snack at noon," said Mrs. Tod. "I'll put it out nice and handy on the waiter, so that Kitty and me can go to the funeral; aud when we come back we'll-get a comfortable supper to make up on." "Kitty," said Miss Debby, as if just remembering the circum- stance, "be sure to go to the old man's funeral. If I wasn't a miserable creature on occasions of this kind, I'd go myself, but I'm better at home, I know. Get a  coach and pay for it, and if you should notice any thing wanting, supply it to the -best of your power. I  really ought to have thought of this before, but we have a miserable way of being absorbed in ourselves at times, we old maids." As Miss Debby reached the back parlor, a pleasant sitting-room, with no possible likeness to the great bare chamber where the old party stitched in concert, she found Mr. Siebert still her lodger, waiting on his way out to bid her good-morning. It may have been for the sake of old associations, or it may have been because     2054      TEN YEARS OP A LIFETIME. a male member of the household was an acquisition to a group of lonely women, but Miss Debby had been most anxious to accom- modate the painter in their joint household, when the Tods and she continued their fortunes together; and nothing seemed to give her greater satisfaction in the arrangeraent than the event of his finding their spare room perfectly to his satisfaction. .This morn- ingg he stood smiling and pleasant, as he had stood any other morn- ing seven years ago, as little changed in face or figure by the flight of time as any one might reasonably hope to be. "Your friends have returned, I see,'l he said, with a stronger relish of interest in his manner than Miss I)ebby could have ex- pected her relatives to inspire. "Kitty las just been telling me so. Is there any one you know arrived, too?" She asked this by way of accounting for the life and expression of his manner, which rather surprised her. "Why, yes; a gentleman whom I have served a little in my business, is among the number. By the by, you know him, too- Mr. Farron, of Bellingham Square, you remember?:' "Yes, certainly," said Miss Debby, quickly, and she changed color as she spoke, for somehow the name brought back a great deal, and Miss Debby was no stoic. She thought an instant and then asked-- "Does he come to remain at home?" "i e brings a wife, at all events." "A wife!" cried Miss Debby, in astonishmenit, " a wife -1 Now really I find that I am an old maid, for every shred and atom of curiosity I possess rises up at the word, and I shall not be easy until I know all about Mrs. Farron. Margaret, what do you think I Mr. Siebert is telling me that Mr. Farron is married, and that his wife and he have- come back on this last steamer from Europe." "There!-I'm not able to do a stitch till I hear all about it. Mr. Farron!--why it isn't possible! And Miss Farron allow it I Oh, Miss Debby, it's the luckiest thing in life Hthey came on the ship with your cousin, Mr. George, and he'll tell you all about it." So, with this hopeful anticipation, they flew quickly to work, and   MSS DEBBY'S RELATIONS.         205 sooh surrounded themselves with all the appliances of their art, while they were deep in the fabrication of- delicate summer head-gear. Mr. Siebert, without further comment on the possible style of Mrs. Farron, or the singularity of there being a Mrs. Farron at all, asked a question or two about the fiuneral of old Mr. Doyle, whom he had heard of so often, and went away on his morning walk. CHAPTER XXX. MSS   DEBBY S   RELATIONS. BUSILY Miss Debby plied her needle, and rapidly Jenny cut out the trimmings to suit her need; but, busily and earnestly as they worked, little was accomplished before a carriage whirled into the street and up to the door, and  two handsome, elegantly-dressked girls sprang out and ran up the steps to meet Kitty Donahue with the demand-  "Where is Aunt Debby?" Not answering. them, but looking over their heads at their less spriglltly father wending his slower way in the same  direction, 1Kitty inwardly commented on his increased stoutness, and won- dered if Miss Debby would have time to slip up-stairs and be wait- ing for   if she could give her a hint then. "Kitty, don't you know  us?" exclaimed the younger of the ladies. "Pray, don't stare 'so! but tell Aunt Debby we are so anxious to see-her." Mr. George, having by this time arrived on the scene of action, came between his two daughters and repeated their inquiry. "Oeh, yis, sirl!" said Kitty, recovering her speech-"  she's bravely, and she'll be overjoyed to see yez! Walk up to her sitting-room, and I'll go and call her.  laybe she's lying down to take a  rist afther aiting her breakfast.'" So Kitty escorted the party above-stairs to a neat front cham-     O256      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. ber, prettily furnished with neat inexpensive things, and looking, as it really was, entirely unused except on state occasions. Here sthe left them to communicate their advetnt, but met Miss Debby on the stairs, fully aware of it, and rather fluttered by the knowlcdgc. "Let me look at ye, for fear yer covered with threads. What's that on yer finger?-a shield, no less I and they'd clap their eyes on it the first thng. Sure ye've five pils in yer bosom, and a long thread round yer neck. Och, AMiss Debby, ye'd niver desave a kitten!" "I Nwisl I never had known what deceit meant, Kitty," said Miss Debby, sadly, as she obeyed her instructions about the thread and shield, and put both out of sight in her pocket. '"If I could hl1ave kept the knowledge of it to myself, and let others go unstained and unsuspected, it would have been little matter ; but the road you start is the one you must follow, it seems." So she opened the door and went in to her newly arrived rela- tions, who greeted her rapturously. "Why, Debby, you dear old woman!" cried Mr. George as he kissed her, "you look as demure and sweet as if you never knew what a joke meanet, and wasn't as good a hand to take part in one as ever came out of Ireland."  "What does it matter how old folks like us look, George? Look at the girls and rejoice your heart, for they do you credit. RIose darling', you're better and sweeter than ever; and Lily has kept her promise, which is all I need say for her." "Oh, just hear how Irish Aunt Debby is, with the flavor of a half-dozen blarney-stones about her!" laughed Lily, while Rose held close about her aunt's neck, and huggaed her vigorously. "But how is your mother and the children, and when did you make up your mind to come back?" asked Debby, while Mr. George retired to the window to briush the signs of his greeting away. There was something in DebDy's gray hair that touched him to the soul, and in the likeness that had grown up in her chastened face to the perished beauty of her sister Norah. So for a little while he did not speak, but contented himself with   MSS DEBBY'S RELATIONS.         257 coming back from the window, and taking her hand, and pressing it again and again, whilst his daughter informed her of family matters. "AMamma is sort of so-so, as mamma always is," said Lily; "and all the children are ravenously hungry, which is the only effect the voyage has had on them. Then, as for our conming rather suddenly, you know that was owing to the Farrons. Didn't we write you of them?  Why, Aunt Debby, they're perfectlyer charming people; and though papa here never exactly understood Mrs. Farron-that's because she s a French lady, and, of course, isn't at home directly with oulr American ways--pamma actually adores her, which is saying a great deal, you know, for she's not an enthusiast on most subjects." "The Farrons are very well, girls; but you needn't annoy your aunt with them; don't you see it bothers her to be reminded of people connected with that sad affair at Norah's death? Debby, you must come home and stay a fortnight with us--that 's what you must do; and we'll tell you every thing in a nice, enjoyable way--not in snatches and catches of little visits/' "Yes, yes, that's it, papa," cried Lily. "Do come, Aunt Deb- by. I believe you're under oath to yourself to be indebted to no one for the value of d pin, so you can pay a certain sum and be independent; and all that while you are with us." Rose colored, and frowned disapprovingly on her flippant sister. "Can you come, Aunt Debby?" she asked earnestly. "I'm very sorry to say that I cannot just now," faltered Deb- by; "but I'll see you very often; and to hear all about your de- lightful wanderings will be such a treat to me in my quiet, humdrum life!" "Does this milliner woman you live with have a good connec- tion, Debby?" asked her cousin suddenly. "As far as it goes, the girls here mighlt do something to give her a start among their friends. They have a good deal of bonnet talk in a general way, I should say, and I think it quite likely that they might as well talk her up as another. ;It's my opinion, Debby, that you feel in some way bound to the girl, and that you have taken her success . .     '2c,8     TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIMAE. in lift. on vo-tlr own shloulders. Now, if we can hlelp you to lift til' lofqd :( ' ittle--sol of case it off, anlld give you a chae to (get a r et--it s:,eins to lme it's lunl 1 to be a reliteF. i   0hx, G-eorge, you are mistakcin; I'm just as colmfortable as . e.1t He. I 15.[ arg'arct knew Norah atnt llte for years, amll! of course it is a home feeling Ilere in compat'ison to whalt I should have with a stIran(elre; 1 ullt, dear girls, dot plese t e I our fathller think that I al ,bestowinig favors when in reality I receive them I' "I think, papa, aunt Debby feels better when she is left to herself--I mecan to her own way of arranging things f' Rose hinted this gently, but Lily tost her head. "I do hate to feel that my aunt's independence of feeling ever took the form of bonnets," she said. "I am always so severe with with my milliners, and it's rather painful to think of your relations being snubbled as you're obliged to snub those provoking people. " "But we never were snubbed, Lily," said Miss Debby, mildly. "I don't think any one ever thought of snubbing, ohr Norah." There--give in; girls-there's no more use in arguing with one of this name and race than trying to drive a river up hill. Your sister Norah is an angel, Debby, and I always admired her as something beyond the connmon style of grace and beauty, but she's driven me to the last point of humtan es xasperation o"itener than any living creature. I've come at odd times to talk to her earnestly about changing her way of living, and represent -cogent reasons and unanswerable arguments for my plan, and the result has been that every single time I've been obliged to ,o into a tearing pas- sion and act like a heathen, with the remorseful sense afterwards of having wrung the heart and bruised the spirit of a woman with the finest eyes and most melancholy smile in existence. Forgive me, Debby, I lhave no right to drag up these things. She was an angelic creature, and I never could understand myself about the temper I used to get into with her." "George dear," said Miss Debby, tenderly, "I think we shall be the happiest and most united family in the world when we stop trying to understand each other, and accept what is for what might be. 'Now, to show you how thoroughly I'm going to enjoy a morn.   MSS DEBBY S RELATIONS.         259 ing's chat, I'll bring up some bits of silk and ribbon I'm turning into bows, and work whila I listen." "That's right, aunt Debby," said Rose, kindly; but her fathler and sister considered the proposition as too nearly connected with the contested subject to admit of favor. Suddelily \Ir. Georlge bethought himself:; I have an engagement this morning, which I was about forgetting, and it ought to have some interest to you too, Debby. Do you remember the Laws, of Hemlck Hill, near Dublin? Of course you do, for I remember you and Norah at the county ball, where old Mrs. Law was your chaperone, and you danced with her handsome boy the lieutenant. Well, that old lady is living yet, and I saw her and undertook to find her nephew, Rich- ard LawL "T rac, whlo-turns-out to be the uncle of that poor young fellow who came to his end so strangely in your place. I found it out by an odd chance last night,  and am to go and meet him this morning. A strange being he must be, from his aunt's account, and what other people tell of him too." "Yes--he seemed strange," faltered Debby, with a changing face. "Papa, had you not better go thet?" asked Rose, gently, with a side glance of warning towards her sister, who was abotut to dash into the conversation with questions as to the precise nature oi the strangeness of Mr. Tracy. ' Yes, I suppose-so; and I'll leave you to do what you can with this obdurate woman.  Make the best bargain you can for the time she'll give us, and tell her all about Ballyshawn Lodge; re- member she was born. there, and if she has a bit of true old Irish faith in her, the very name will bring the tears into her eyes." "You're right, George; it is like a dream to me, but not a happy one, for the sorrow and misery that marked our last days there makes me shudder to recall it." "Oh, Debby! what's the good of croaking; it never used to be your way, and whatever gave it to you, the Lord only knows. You lost your money by your father's folly-many a one did the same -the old man was too gay and dashing for the lengtth of his purse, and when trouble came upon him he could not find the courage to     260      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. meet it, but cllose the Liffy on a dark night instead. Wasn't my own father shot on the road, and robbed of all the money he had received from the sale of Innislawn; and wasn'it it the ruin of us all, with no one to lay the blame on but that lame devil, Kitty Donahue's brother.'" "George! George!" cried Miss Debby, faintly, "why should you go over tlis now?"' "Because, Debby, it has just struck me that you and Norah always claimed a false position, and that I yielded it to you with- out a question, looking on myself as a rollicking fellow without a trouble or care in comparison. Faith, I've done myself great in- justice. For an honester, better man than my father never lived, and his robbery and murder-for murder it was, though he lived nearly a year with a muddled brain from the blow of a loaded whip on the skull-was the work of black-hearted ruffians, without a fault of his own leading to it. I remember the time better than you do, for I was begrininig the world, and the loss threw me back again. Yet my brothers went into the army, and I studied law; and by hook and crook we got the better of our troubles, though I remember swearing that I'd never know rest or peace till I'd bring Kitty's brother to the gallows ; but I couldn't chase him over the wide world, and lie escaped me, yet I've taken both rest and peace, thank God, and almost forget my old sore till I see a man with a limp. Then I thrust my hands low down into my pockets, for fear I'll be tempted to fall on the creature and tear hiri for the sake of the devil that wronged me." "I'll get my sewing," murmured Miss Debby, moving towards the door. Her face was quite white, and her lips were dry and colorless. "I'll be gone when you come back," said Mr. leorge Campbell, doggedly. "I'm going to have my say out now, for I never saw so clearly as I do to-day how you and Norah have wronged me by setting up on false pretences. Lord, bless me! when it was known that Squire Campbell was robbed and shot on the public road, and his cousin, Ralph Macllroy, had gone crazy fronl his losses and drowned himself in the Liffy, the country rose, and such riding and   M[ISS DEBBY'S RELATIONS.        261 searching I never shall see again. Most people thought that ill- luck was fairly divided between us; but Bob or Ralph or I couldn't come up to you and Norah for desolation. Faith, I remember the first time I saw the belle of Ballyshawn, as they called her, after the trouble came out. A walking corpse would have been a gay sight com- pared to her, and you were not far behind li, ,or white frozen looks. I Norah's first act was to give up her engagement with young Norman -McMinn; and so she sent the poor fellow off into the army, where he was shot, by the side of my brother Bob, near Ava-that was the first move. Then off you both come to Amer- ica; and what could I do but follow you, seeing that you hadn't a living friend in the country, though you met me as if I'd signed your death-warrant, instead of having come to offer you a home?" "Oh, George! dear George! how can you talk so?" "How can you act so?   I declare, before Heaven, that half the time when I think of you, it seems to me that you must know some desperate deed of mine, done in a fit of insanity, that makes you shrinkl from any near connection with me or mine 1" "Oh, George!" "Oh, Debby! It's heaven's truth, and I'm going to be done with it now and forever. A  man can't get rid of his natural feel- ings any more than he can change the shape of his heart. Now, doubt and secrecy and distrust are not natural to you, because we belong to the same blood, and I never knew the feelings. Get rid of them, Debby darling, and the bonnet mania that belongs to them at the same time; and when you've turned your back on such black nonsense, I'll see the same dear, merry-eyed girl that used to run out to meet me   from the garden with the hawthorn hedge around it, at the slope of Ballyshawn." Poor Miss Debby laid her head on her cousin's shoulder and wept silently. Rose stood   by with downcast eyes, but Lily glanced from one to the other observantly. At   length Miss Debby looked up and wiped away the tears that still kept flowing. "George dear," she said, firmly and seriously, "you said just now this was the last time you -should have any thing to say on this subject. If you will only keep your word, you will make me a     262      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. happy woman. I am nervous and foolish, and my only hope of peace or comfort is forgetfulness. People whose lives are miade and kept in good order can easily endure to bring them out on ex- hibition ; but to those whose retrospects are tangled and horribly disarranged, memory brings no pleasure. Aine are graves full of unseemly bones, that would pollute the present with their resurrec- tion. I mean to let them lie, and not to question myself as to their number or state, only thanking God that they are buried out of my sight. Girls, sit down here by the windows and tell me about the gayest things you saw in all your sighlt-seeing. Dear George, forgive me, but I will not go into bygones." "I told you so," remarked Mr. George, with an air of utter helplessness. "I said that her sister's mantle was on her, and she'd come over me with that superior sorrow and unapproachable grietf, to which my dead father and lost fortune wasn't fit to hold a candle. There it is, and here we are; but I'll swear I believe it's from the silks and ribbons they caught it, and I'll hate the sight of a bonnet till my dying day. If I'd turned tailor myself when I began life under altered circumstances, who knows what the cloth mightn't have done for me? Perhaps I would have been able to look like a Trappist, and turn my back on my flesh and blood." "Now,  George, you are bitter and unkind. Pray, girls, keep hint from saying any thing- more." "I've said my say, Debby AMcIlroy, and now you may go into a nunnery to-morrow if you like; only I think it's a pity, when you 1are deterrmined to gloom your life away, that it isn't for the sake of a better man than Ralph AcIllroy. If he was your father he was my cousin, and I always thought the Liffy got the worst of it the night it drowned him." "Oh, papa! how can you wound Aunt Dchbjy's feelings so ruth- lessly?'" and his tender-hearted daughter, Rose, laid her hand ap- pealingly on her red-faced father's arm.  ! ' Let her spend her fine feelings on fine subjects!" remarked Mr. George, growing still redder; "and this I'll say, that if I didn't love her too well for my own common sense, I'd turn my back on   M[ISS DEBBY'S RELATION-S.        263 263 her and her grief and bonnet-making together, and then there would be an end of such affectionate brawls." "Go along to your engagement, papa," said Lily, laughing; "you're as irascible as an old father in a play. There's no fun in quarrelling with any one so gentle as Aunt Debby." "I'm going," said Mr. George; " but confound all manner of gentle melancholy and such like aggravation! Debby, Lord bless you-forgive me; if I didn't love you, I'd be better able to get over your provoking ways." Miss Debby bit her lips in a momentary perplexity between trouble and natural good-humor; then she laughed, half sadly and half merrily. "Well, well," she said, "there's ro use in anger, and you and I are too old to be silly. George dear, I'll try to be less distressing to you, and  you try to be less impatient. I'll go up to-night to tea with 3Irs. George, if you like, and I'll be running backwards and forwards till vou're sick of me soon." ":Now go, for that is as near a thorough understanding as you'll ever come, you two  people."  And Lily put on her father's hat sidewise, and, giving him his cane, thrust him out of the room. "And now let us tell you about Patis, Aunt Debby," she said, returning flushed from the feat of dismissal, "for' of course one might run over the whole wide world, and see every thin, without discovering the equal of that bright and blessed place. I shall never be contented one instant till we all go back again, and make tup our minds to be sensible, and stay there." "And what does sister Rose say?" asked Aunt Debby, smiling at the enthusiasm  of the  young devotee of gayety. "I  liked every thing while I  was there; but I'm truly glad to get home, Aunt Debby, and at home   I mean to stay. It was all very well for the four older members of the family to wander and see sights, but the children were not so well off. Part of the time we were separated, and they were sent to school; and part of the time they were dragged about from  place to place. Papa sees that they were not fairly dealt by, andl-will not permit Lily to upset the family by-her passion for Parisian life', till they are educated at least."     2Fg      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. shaw, graybeard!" said Lily, with a laughing threat. "I'll make the place uncomfortable, and that's something he cannot en- dure. He'd take me to Kamschatka for peace and pleasure, I'm sure." CHAPTER XXXI. CUSTOMERS. A TAP at the door interrupted them here, and Miss Debby hasti- ly answered it. Jenny Tod drew her into the hall outside, and wlhispered. "I'll come this instant," said Miss Debby, and went back to excuse her absence for a few moments to her young relatives. "A lady, with whom I have a little business," she explained. "I'll return directly." The lady was waiting in the front parlor, while Miss Tod stood ready at the back to catch Miss Debby's attention, and in a whis- per to explain- "I didn't understand about the new style of crowns, and had to send for you." "Certainly," Miss Debby responded, and passed in. The lady rose, involuntarily it seemed, for her manner, when she spoke, gave no warrant of such an expression of interest or attention. It was cold and quiet in the extreme and her voice was singularly deep and full, with a tinge of foreign accent in it. She gave one quick, earnest glance at the milliner, and then dropped her eyes. "Are you Miss Tod?" she asked in a measure way, that did not seem to belong to her keen, brilliant eyes. "My partner," Miss Debby explained, "and the one who gen- erally receives orders. Miss Tod says you wished something in the new style of cap-crowns. We have scarcely ant thing made up to show you; it is late in the season, you see."   CUSTOMERS.           265 "I was merely going to leave an order," returned the lady, slowly. She seemed to speak with great deliberation, but her eyes were the busiest eyes that ever shone in the head of so lofty and dignified a lady. She lifted some samples of silk from the centre-table, and seemed lost in their contemplation, but her glances did not rest alone on the article over which she bent her head. "That is very pretty, and trims with great effect," suggested Miss Debby. "So I should think," returned the lady. "Pray let me see something else." "We have only remnants now; but any of these shades can be easily procured, if you select one in particular. This delicate lilac is charming, but would scarcely suit your complexion. Perhaps you know Mrs. Wharton-it is for her to wear at her daughter's bridal. A church-marriage, I understand." "Which Miss Wharton?" asked the lady, quickly, and losing for an instant her uninterested manner. "That is, I mean I have heard the family-named by friends that I have met in France- but perhaps it is not the same. I do not suppose it can be." "Miss Alice Wharton is to be married. There is another sister, Miss Jane, yet single, and Mrs. Col. Leonard is the third." 'Without signifying whether the Whartons mentioned were the family of which she had heard, the lady merely bowed on receiving this information, and selected a sample of silk for a bonnet, about which she seemed at a loss to decide. "Make it like"-she glanced about her for a pattern, but failing to see any thing of the kind she desired, suggested-" like the one I wear, for instance." A carriage stopped before the door, and somebody alighted and came into the hall, as the strange lady turned slowly round to give Miss Debby an opportunity to observe the style of the bonnet she wore.  Just as she faced the hall-door, a very pretty though slightly faded-looking girl appeared on its threshold and gave a little involuntary start backwards. ' Oh, I beg your pardon," said this new-comer. I wanted to 12     2G6'      TEN' YEARS OF' A LIFETIMff.. speak to Miss Tod. Oh, Miss Le Roy, I didn't see yor at first. Do you know whether Miss Tod wants to se;    me to-day or not?" "About the flowers?" said Miss Debby.  "Yes, I thinkE so, Please wait, Miss Wharton, and III see in a moment.7' This young lady was not the Miss Wharton of seren years be- fore; she was no longer plump and rosy-cheekedi neither did she wear mourning weeds and speak bitterly of hulluan faith. She was just a  trifle faded, but scarcely less prtty - the great change was in her manner, which was fllried and uncertain7 and full of a trembling kind of delight ,that flattered like a blush over her face and drooping eyelids as she spoke. If in looks she had grown older, her voice and bearing were infinitely younger. She was child-like in her timidity, and girlish in her changing color. The palpable cause of the transformation came peeping over her shoulder as she stood in the doorway,-a young gentleman, scarcely as old, it would seem, as she was, very handsomei very gracefully, exquisitely dressed, and perfectly well-mannered.  "Are we to wait?" he asked ; and the next instant his eye fell on the strange lady, who had not changed her position, but was looking with an odd, indefinable expression of face straight at Miss Alice Wharton. "Mrs. Farron, by all that's delightful VI he Cried enthusiasti- cally; and, springing past his companion, caught the lady's prof- fered hand, and bowed low over itT with mar y expressions of pleasure at the meeting. "I have watched the passenger-list with the keenest interest for months past," he went on. Mr. Farron named an earlier day for his departure when we parted in Paris; and I have been waiting disconsolately, hoping to have an oppor- tunity to reproach him with disappointing me.'p "Disconsolately. " echoed the lady, laughing, and glancing to- wards the surprised Miss Wharton, who was tapIping her parasol and biting her lip in bashful consciousness. "Oh, I beg your pardon!" he answered, ar d stepped back. "Alice, allow me--my fricnd, Mrs. Farron, the benefactress and cnchantress of every American in Paris. Miss Wharton, my dear   CUSTOMERS.           267 Mrs. Farron-whom I trust you will cultivate and delight, as you have always done her humble servant."7 "I am  very glad to meet you, Aliss Wharton," said Mrs. Farron, in a soft, full voice, that had a direct appeal in its music. "I am very fortunate, as a stranger, in gaining so early an intro- duction.9" Miss Wharton bowed, and, more flurried and disturbed by the brilliant eyes and elegant costume of the handsome lady than seemed natural, appeared at a loss for words to reply. 6 I am very glad, certainly. Albert never named you ; and I was astonished-that is, it took me by surprise ; and I beg your pardon--I am very stupid, I am sure." This last she faltered, as she caught the gentleman's eve, that glanced askance at her for an instant and then came beamiingly to bear on the lady from abroad-' "Alice, you are forgetful-or rather, your memory becomes easily confused," he said, smiling, but without looking at her. Then he turned to Mrs. Farron-"I have so often thought of the time when we should- meet in my country, and I should be able to make it as charming to you as yours was made to me, that it seems like realizing a favorite dream now that I see you here." "You are kind to say so," replied Mrs. Farron, still looking earnestly at Miss Wharton.  "Mr. Leland and I met so often during his stay in France, that we became great friends. He is fond of pictures, and we were buying a good many; he is invalu- able at such service." "Mnr. Leland has perfect taste in those things," said his com- panion, warmly, and glancing with timid admiration at the subject of her eulogy. "My mother considers his opinion law in all that relates to dress; and he is so kind as to come here to give me its benefit now." "Shall I ask you to step in here, Miss Wharton?" asked Miss Tod, from the back parlor. "Certainly-Albert, may I trouble you?  Mrs. Farron, I shall hope to see you soon. I feel great pleasure in finding you a friend of Albert's-Mr. Leland's."     268      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "I shall follow you," said Mr. Leland, with no appearance of such an intention, taking up his position beside M[rs. Farron, as if for prolonged conversation. Miss Debby stood waiting and glancing discree ;ly from piece to piece of the silk she had been displaying for the new customerlrS approval. "Miss Le Roy, I'll leave it entirely to you ab ut the bonnet," said that lady, turning round. "I'll come again. in a few days; meantime, there is no hurry. You'll remember, please." Miss Debby bowed. Then the strange lady, after saluting her politely, turned, and with a scarcely perceptible glance towards the gentleman who stood eagerly waiting her attention, said-  "At my carria-ge-door," and swept hastily and coldly past him. Thither he followed her, and not content with the word or two she paused to say, leant forward, and placing his hand on the open window, after she had entered, stayed the progress of the coach while he spoke to her. The display Miss Tod presented to her patrons of elegant lace and orange-flowers was of such a bewildering nature that the delighted young lady was obliged to clasp her hands, and ex- claim- "Oh, Miss Tod, it's so pretty! and Albert w 11 be delighted, I'm sure, perfectly delighted; but I never wore ny thing so gay or peculiar before. I think I shall scarcely feel at home in it." "A bridal hat should be different from any thing else, Miss Wharton," suggested the discreet Miss Tod. "This is truly ele- gant; every one who has seen it thinks it exquisite./ "But where is Albert?" said the bride elect, glancing over her shoulder-" is that lady gone?" she asked of Miss Dchby, who came in as she spoke, and receiving her reply, she threw off her bonnet, and puttings on the beautiful new hat that!was not entirely completed, ran into the front parlor for her future Icrd's ad- miration. Not finding him there, she ran to the window, and looking i'     through the blinds, saw his eager attitude and bent face at the   C USTOMERS.           269 carriage-window of Mrs. Farron. As she took them both in view, the lady drew back suddenly, and waved her hand as if in anger or aversion; whilst the gentleman, full of propitiatory smiles, talked earnestly, and seemed to ur ge a different view of things on her attention. Mrs. Farron motioned to her coachman, and Mr. Leland was obliged to step back, as the carriage whirled away; but still he stood gazing after its departure, lost in thought, and evidently un- conscious that his love and fealty belonged to the unseen watcher through the window-blind.  Suddenly recalling himself, he glanced up at the house, and then ran hastily up the steps. A blank, worried face met him, looking pale and troubled, though surrounded by wreaths of orange-blossoms and delicate lace. "Ah! yes, that's pretty," he said, lightly, and choosing to appear unconscious of the anxious eyes; "but there's a little bit too much of that loose trimming; it's almost clumsy, I thinkl-there, have it brushed away, and let somebody put falling sprays instead of those round stiff bouquets ; it will be prettier; I'm sure you'll say so when you see it." "Who is that lady?" asked the jealous girl, petulantly. ' You never named her to me, Albert, though you seem to have known her so very, very well." Mr. Leland glanced with cold surprise at the distressed face so close to his own, and then looked down at the little nervous hand that trembled on his coat-sleeve. "Is not this silly, Alice?" he asked, quietly. "I never thought of giving you a list of the people I saw abroad--it would have been a wearisome and stupid task ; still, I could scarcely fail to recognize politely a lady whose house was open to me all the win- ter I spent in Paris. See about your bonnet, pray, and let us go." With this, the expression on the lady's face chafiged-nlo longer inquiring-it became subdued, but not satisfied. She went slowly back and laid off the bonnet she had put on so gayly. "I think it will do, Miss Tod, ' she said. "I believe Mr. Le- land finds the trimming rather heavy; if you will alter that, I shall be obliged."     270      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. ("The flowers, you know," nodded and smiled Mr. Leland over the lady's shoulder, at Miss Tod. "I think you might arrange them less clumsily-there are too many as they are n0w." AIiss Tod held up the bonnet and considered it glavely. "It is beautiful to my mind, and you will hlave to point out the improvements," she said. "I do not see really where they can be made."  "I merely suggested less trimming," said the genileman, care- lessly. "Mrs. Farron's bonnet was much plainer, and; she used to be the most perfectly dressed among, perfectly dressed' women." /Miss Wharton's manner increased in perturbation. "Arrantge it in the way Mr. Leland suggests, if you can," she said, and walked slowly down the steps and out into her own little plain carriage, in which she had driven years ago to befriend poor Addlie, at the old house of the milliners. Meantime, Miss Debby, work in hand, joined her yolung relatives above-stairs, and chatted so pleasantly as she plied ler task, that the Misses Campbell reported her to their father asI more enter- taining and agreeable than any one would have believed possible, considering the unpromising beginning of the morning under hiz auspices. CHAPTER XXXII. A MSERABLE MAN. MR. GEORGE CAMPBELL   made  haste away frorm his cousin Debby's lodgcings, and drove to a finer part of the townl. Enter- ing a wide, handsome street, he put his head out of the carriage- window every moment or two, to give and countermand directions as to which was the proper house to stop at; and at last, in a fit of indecision between half a dozen of exactly similar appearance, he sprang out and ran impetuously up to each in search of a satis- :   A MSERABLE 1IA1X    -.      271 factory door-plate. It was discovered to belong to the last, and bear the inscription " illchar L. Tracy," in faded black-letters, on a silver ground-work equally dim. "Here we are,7' said rIt. George to himself; "' and now that we are here, it seems a tougher job to go over all the old lady's tender reproaches than when I undertook it so readily. However, he rang the bell and waited its answer with a deter- mined countenance ; for, as he said, -"What I said I'd do, I'll do, even if the dry old soul is worse than I think him"' A man o middle-age, mild-eyed and pleasant, vith a brisk cheerfulness abot himn, responded. This person was not dressed like a servant, .]yt ratlher a s a comfortable householder of the middle classes, "Mr' Tracyrs not well this mlornoag, sir,7i he said, in reply to MAr. George's inquiry 4j'please excuse him." P' rtl do notlhing of the sort said that gentlerman, promptly; "I came here all the way from old Mrs. Law, his Irish aunt, and I'm I ot goiqg away without doig nmy erraad, for all the megrims and fancies you can invent," "His Irish aunt!" repeated the man, astoaished.; "I didn't cknow be hiad any relatios--tha is, they never have called in nmy t ime. "C(alled, is it? Why, man alive, they're on the other sidle of the ocean.  Give him this card, will you, and look sharp witchl the answer. J' So saying, -Mr. George scrawled under his own mnme the words, From Mrs Law, of Hemlock Lodge,"' and gave the document to the messenger In a nmoment after he disappeared the door by which he had entered the parlor opene a and Mr. Tracy, looking like au old man, though in reality little more than middle-aged, dressed in a heavy gown, though in the heat of sumamer and apparently trem- bling with eagerness, though he walked slowly, appeared, and motioned towards him, "Excuse me, sir-Mr. Campbell. I -believe I have been ill, and am not yet quite myself. This name has surprised and-and--- , .     272      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. given me pleasure--thou'gh why, I cannot say. My' relatives have no claim on feeling firom me nc  lie fumbled the bit of paper over and over nervously, and re-  peated--"Walk in, sir, if you'll be so kind; I am isurprised and  delighted-I should say astonished. My aunt is still living, then?"  "Certainly," said Mr. George, frankly, " and a worthy, good- hearted lady she is, or she never would have urged me so ardently to seek out a relative, who, by all accounts, deserved little at her hands.                    ! "Sir," said the old gentleman, rather flushing under this un- ceremonious allusion to himself, "you do not understand the case; there are positions in family matters too delicate for defini- tion. I am glad to hear of her, though. Heaven knows, I am glad to hear of her."  "She's as warm-hearted as her own hearthstone, where the fire never dies out, winter or summer. When you cross 'the lawn at Hemlock Lodge, you reach the gates of welcome and true hospi- tality." X "Yes, yes; I've spent happy days there, that are like dreams to me now--like dreams, empty dreams."e "Well, Mr. Tracy, I went there almost a stranger, for it was twenty long years and over since I trod the turf before, and I assure you that more real or true happiness I never enjoyed; and the words you've just used don't belong to the eating and drink- ing, which, on my honor, are of the very best." ' Here Mr. George took a chair, and becoming accustomed to the dim light of the room, glanced around it curiously, whilst his host, fumbled the cord tassels of his gown nervously, and seemed but ill at ease with himself or his visitor. It was a large and elegant parlor, originally grand, but faded and disarranged, like its owner. In the further end was a gothic case for books, tall and splendidly carved; but the shelves were partly displaced, and though many piles of books were ranged in against the base, not more than a dozen or two were placed in  order on them. There were pictures, too--some on the wails, but   A MSERABLE MAN.           273 more in corners, back outwards, waiting to be hung. There were packing-cases of all size's and shapes, huddled away in a corner, and covered over with papers, engravings, and the like. In an inner circle were chairs, couches, and tables, all of choice design and elegant make, but none according with the other, or any of theim with the room they were in. Strange, disordered, ill-assorted, and unfinished, every thing dis- agreed with every thing else, except the occupant and master of the place, and all their eccentricities seemed combined in him. "I speak of Hemlock Lodge, Mr. Campbell," he began, after a wavering pause, " as one who has known too much joy and sorrow there to be able to separate the feelings. My aunt was once my dearest and best of friends, but my brother Tyrone displaced me in her regard. She was unkind and unjust, and embittered my life there beyond endurance at the last." Here he became querulously excited, and almost wrung his hands in his distressful memory of bygones. Mr. George looked at him with wide open eyes. "Faith," said he, 'you've a tender heart of your own, sir, or your honored aunt has not dealt fairly by you. She told me, with tears in her honest old eyes, that you flew off in a tantrum with your poor brother because he shot a hound of yours by mischance, and that when she strove to reconcile you, the house would hold you no longer." "It was bitter and cruel beyond every thing. He's dead now. God forgive him, but I cannot think of it without horror." "Of the shooting of the beast?{' suggested Mr. 4eorge. "It was murder," responded the other, in trembling tones. "I e's gone to his account, poor fellow; surely you may let him rest with his Maker's judgment,i said Mr. George, glancing still more curiously at the man whose injuries were so long cherished, and so apparently trivial. ' No one ever was true to me," said Mr. Tracy, relaxing from his excitement and sighing profoundly. "That dog alone was wholly and solely devoted, and so they were set against it to the death. It died from a cool, deliberate aim, that marked it out 12'     274      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. without pity and without mercy; there wasn't a' blackbird within sight anywhere-that was a lie, and I told him so." "Did you, then? Faith, I don't wonder you left afterwards." I "It was the beginning of sorrow, sir. I have had enough since to have blighted a dozen lives. Trouble seems to make me immor- tal ; I suffer, but cannot die." "Why should you-till your time comes? Mr. Tracy, sir, I'm to the point in what I say, without palaver, so I'll tell you plainly that I don't give the snap of my fingers in sympathy for the dog business. I heard it all from your venerable aunt, who, I must confess, put it in a better light for you than you have been able to do for yourself; but you're a gentleman who met a sad blow in the loss of a fine, handsome lad as ever I looked on, and I always believe, as most people do, that there was a foul bit of work about it somewhere. In all true honest feeling I give you my hand on that-score, and if you've a mind to put up with bluntness that means no ill, I'll be happy to see you whenever I find I'm not in truding. Your aunt is one of the old stock. True, royal hospitality and warmth of heart are her belongings; for her sake let's put up with each other as well as we can, and I'll report progress by letter, making no mention of the dead beast's end; that had better be considered providential, and inquired into no further." Mr. Tracy, indeed a feeble and slightly bewildered man, followed this speech with apparently vague comprehension of its meaning, and at the close, catching one idea, broke down, murrmuring inco- herently-- "Oh! my dear boy I my dear, murdered boy!" "Then I beg your pardon. I felt I'd be bound to mix matters before I got through ; but from the first of that sad business I felt I'd like to know you, and give you my suspicions that it may yet come right, and the stain of self-murder be lifted from his alame." Mr. Tracy's nature had something womanly in all its expressions: he was weeping now with all the force of a sorrow-stricken girl, but suddenly he looked up with eager cunning, and caught his vis- itor's hand, crying, in a shrill whisper- - "What was it?  A girl-the one that fell in the it? I've had   A MSERABLE MAN. 2'5 her trated all over the world-sometimes almost finding her, then losing sight of her again; but she'll be found some day, and made to speak-made to speak." Mr. George shook his head slowly. Why no, I never thoughlt of that-pshaw, it's out of the questions That whiffet hadn't it in her. She took a fever from the fright and trouble, and made away with herself in the water. BIut an office-boy I hlad before I went to travel gave me an idea once that I thought worth follow- ing up. It turned out nrthing in the elnd; but that was because we didn't start right. This lad was a harem-scarem sort of booby, that had lived in the family of my relatives at the time of the ter- rible business, though he cut the connection in the most emphatic way as soon as he heard of the trouble. One day he was talking it over in a ghostly whisper to a clerk of mine, and I overheard him say that a queer-looking man had been dodging and watching about the place for weeks, at odd times, and that more than once he had  noticed him  watching- the upper windows, where the lodger slept. Now, I am not given to deep planning in a general way, so immediately on hearing this I collared the lad, and never let him go  till I had hinm before a police judge. Well, sir, it seems that I frightened the wits and memory out of him, for nothing short of thumbscrews could get a word of sense out of the  young  wretch, and they were out of date-more's the pity." After watching his guest's face with frantic eagerness during this recital, Mr. Tracy drew a long, deep sigh, and gasped faintly. "But you could have kept him under your eye, and dogged and watched him till you took him unawares again." "There, sir, I beg your pardon. I'm making you sick and white- looking by what I'm saying.   It's my ill luck to always affect people in this way when I mean better. As for the watching and waiting, it isnt in me to do it. If I could have shaken it out of him, or paid him for speaking, it would have been done; but the scanmp had no setlse of his duty, and before I could hit on another plan had made off with himself as a sailor on a man-of-war, where he is now for all I know against it."     297      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. I "And my poor boy lies in a dishonored grave-all for the hor- rible folly of giving his heart to an enemy to his name and blood." The old man wailed this, rocking himself to and fro, like a weak embodiment of unavailing grief. "If Bob Tod's story was true, it's more likely he lies, there, be- cause he had turned his little property into money, and some cun- ning villain knew it. I speak from a dear-earned knowledge of such things. My father was killed by a foul-handed fiend for the same reason." "Your father, Mr. Campbell!" cried the atte tive listener, springing up and seizing his hand. "Oh, it's something to meet a man who has tasted the same bitter draught I drink daily I I am the most wretched afnd hopeless of men. A curse is on me, and touches every thing I touch; it has been so always, and will be so till the end. I am debarred even from sympathy; for, till I met you, I never saw a man who had known any thing like my sorrow, or who could understand my grief." "If you read the police reports, you must have been convinced they existed," returned Mr. George, without very much delicacy, all things considered.            j But suddenly becoming aware of it, he changed his tone, and holding out his hand frankly, said- "There, Mr. Tracy, for the sake of the old lady, and the trouble we've both known in our time, let's shake hands and be friends. Never let it enter your mind again that you're alone in the world, for that's black folly. Come out of this tossed-up place of yours, and let the sun shine on you; it will be more than all the. valerian and anodynes the doctors can give you. Y fa ven't the heart to enjoy any thing alone, and you are too distrustful to take to comr panly. Youl must get over it, and begin by writing a good kind letter to the dear old lady, your aunt."  "I have not written to any one for years; my last bit of writing was to John, that fearful morning when I heard of his mad fancy for that girl."                 i "Let the poor girl rest; she turned nun, or something of that   A MSERABLE MAN.           2" sort, didn't she? Then why should you harrow her name up to worry yourself with the sound of it?" "Oh, you don't jnow the story; you couldn't know it all. It was through her he turned false to me. Her father's spirit was in her to sting me. It was the old story over agrain; I never knew it otherwise." "Stop thinking backwards, sir, or you'll play the deuce with yourself. Come up and see me; I have a couple of girls that are rather goodl in their way at making timne fly, and we'll talk over Hemlock Lodge together at our leisure." "You're very good, sir, but I am never fit for society. I am grateful to you, but I cannot consent to impose my dreariness upon your pleasant household." But Mr. George was pertinacious, and would take no refusal, especially as he saw the good-natured looking man appear in the doorway behind his master, and make encouraging motions at him on the subject of persevering in his hospitable intent. At length, giving a timid and partially reluctant promise to drink tea with the Campbell family next evening, the troubled gentle- man was allowed by his determined visitor to sink back among his cushions, and nurse his miserable memories into giants o? despair and self-commiseration. As the man-servant conducted Mr. George to the door, he touched him on the coat-sleeve, and made a sign significant of a desire to have a word in private. To this pantomimic action the gentleman readily responded by standing still and looking with all due attention at the performer. But the man shook his head energetically, and poin" ted out of doors. "I'll call up your carriage for you, sir?" he said alcud, and ran before him down the steps. Thenr as Mr. George stood waiting, he addressed him without in the least turning his eyes in that direction, or appearing, except by the motion of his lips, to speak. "You see, sir, he's full of suspicion, and all sorts of botheration. Nothing satisfies him unless he can take a little torment out of it. ,      278      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIM[E. If you can keep him going about that boy you spoke of, you'll occupy his mind, and do him and them connected with him a great favor.' "What do vou mean?" "I've lived with him over twenty years. I found him in a fever over what he calls his great troubles. Then he adopted the boy, and I must say he came nearer being comfortable with him than with any thing else he ever tried. But he watqhced and suspected him always, till the young gentleman wouldn't bear it; and then they'd have a scene--had lots of 'em, and made up lagain, because the old one couldn't make his complaint- good; bet at last the young lady was in the case, and that broke them up in earnest. If fuming and tormenting could have carried a man out of the world, the old one would have gone then, but he lived through it, though he's been worse and worse ever since." i "You've had your own experience of him, I should say." The man indulged in a wink of intense and solemn meaning, and allowed its effect to sink into Mr. George's tnind before he spoke again. At length he answered-     I "Pretty much," and looked skyward for a moment or two. "But," he added, bringing his gaze back again to mid air, and speaking as before, with the manner of saying nothing, "you mustn't think I'm not fond of him. I couldn't any more get along without him than he could without his whims and worries. te watches and listens all the time; and I do the same in self-defence, you see. So I heard you telling him what you did, and I feel you're the right kind of gentleman just to take hold on him, and lift him up out of his botherations. Don't mind his kicking against you, sir, but do lift him up; it's a noble action, and is gratefully remembered by them connected with him. Do lift him upl"With this adjura- tion, delivered in a passionless way, and with motions indicative of directing the coachman how to turn his horses, thy kind-looking man retreated up the steps with his hands in hi 'pockets, and whistling softly to himself. Mr. George glanced after him, and up at the cloled shutters of the house: a slight movement of the blind of the parlor was percep- tible as he looked, and the sash was drawn softly downwards. -   :   MRS. FARRON AT HOME.         279 "Pshaw! what a silly creature it is," he said, cor temptuously, I' searching for thorns and briers for his own stinging, and looking so low down too. But, after all, the man's miserable, and his aunt is a noble-hearted woman, with whom I'm bound to keep my promise. To begin, I'll try and make him comfortable to-morrow night, and give him a bone of vexation to gnaw, as his man recom- mends." ; -   , . . .  r .r- - . - ...-. CHAPTER     XXXIII MRS. FARRON AT HOME. Mss JULIA FARRON had been absent from the house in Belling- ham Square over a week when Mr. Farron brought home his wife from Paris.- She had' never seen the lady, though expressing herself by letter as perfectly satisfied with her father's choice, feeling con. fident that he never would choose unwisely. For Miss Julia Farron was singularly changed since the days of her proud, inso- lent beauty. A year of wild and desperate wandering on the out- skirts of madness had passed away, leaving her a woman with an active though sometimes erratic mind, and a strongly developed  tendency towards religion. For the first phase of her trouble society offered no relief. Even her father's unwavering devotion and tenderness founa no favor in her sight. ITo wander like a restless spirit to and fro from room to room, or to throw her street dress on and hurry away frantically hither and thither in an endless and objectless walk, had been the only outlets to her misery. Now she was one of a charitable body in whose actions she was intensely interested, and her whole life was a round of incessant labor for the poor and needy, whom she aided systematically by means of charity schools, Dorcas societies, foster-homes, foundlings, etc. Her present absence from the city was owing to the foundation of an institution of this nature in a     280      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. neighboring locality, of which she was the patroness and presiding genius. In the little note she left behind her, she said she must claim exemption from the charge of violated politeness on the ground that it was a sacred duty she pursued, with. the interests of which she could allow no other claim to interfere. Miss Jane Wharton, her sister-spirit in these movements, had left the preparations for her sister's wedding in abeyance, and was co- operating with her in the noble work. They would!have the pleas- ure of waiting on Mr. and Mrs. Farron on their relturn, and prior to their departure to visit some flourishing institutions of a like nature in the East, from which they hoped to gather plans for im- provements. Apparently this state of things in no wise displeased the new mistress of the Bellingham Square mansion, as immediately on leaving it her spirits had increased in vivacity, and she had taken possession of her new premises in high spirits. Her husband had been younger in years, but his enjoyment of existenbe could scarce- ly ever have been keener than when he watched 1 er flying from room to room, inspecting all the new and beautiful arrangements made for her reception, and giving way to ecstasies of delight and admiration. "For it is really the loveliest place in the whole wide world, this home of mine," she said ; "and there is, but one thing wanting to make it perfect-a worthier mistress ;" and she came and threw herself down at his feet, as he sat in a great Turkish chair, watching her with beaming eyes. Instantly the eyes were clouded, and the face that looked down into hers bitterly distressed. "This is a dreadful folly, Blanche," he said earnestly, " and I beg and entreat that you give it up. You promised wre, darling, and I trusted you : do not make me regret it!" "There--it is over now," she said, and rose aoain in his arms. "It was the place brought back the old feeling. [ am not sorry to know that it is not entirely dead; if it were I shoul. doubt myself." The door opened as she spoke, and the colored ilaan-the same who had been the hall-servant longD ago-looked in, and hastily withdrew again, apologizing.   MRS. FARRON AT HOME.          281 "Please, sir, I was looking for Mrs. Farron's maid. There's a girl below from the milliner's to ask her for some trimming." "I will attend to it myself," said Mrs. Farron, coming forward. She was a tall woman, with a magnificent figure, and though still very young, had a queenlike dignity of motion and manner that impressed one with the idea of more advanced years. The servant drew back, as she passed by, with a slight tightening 3f the breath, for, as he described her, she "kind of took a man d3wn when he looked at her." This was the day after her visit at the milliner's, and in refer- ence to the bonnet she then ordered the message had come. "Will you tell the young person to come up here, Stephen?" she said, after an instant's thought. "I can tell her just what I want, and Claudine might make some mistake."   So changing her mind, she returned into the room she was about to qulit, and com- ing back to her husband's side, laid her hand on his shoulder and whispered in his ear. He looked doubtful of the wisdom of her words apparently, but made no reply beyond a slight raising of the eyebrows. The messenger was a nimble one, forbefore Mrs. Darron could speak again she stood in the doorway. A little woman, with a sharp, inquiring face and undergrown figure-none other than Jenny Tod. "From the milliner's about the lace you would send, and to ask, how it's to be put on," she remarked briefly, by way of intro- duction. Mrs. Farron turned about slowly, and looked he-, full in the eyes, with a cold, quiet gaze; then, seeming to remember the mes- sage, said- ,G Ah, yes-from Miss Tod, is it not? Well, I chose rather to see you myself than trust to my maid, whose knowledge of English is less perfect than mine. But please sit down while I send to her for the lace, and then I will tell you about the way it is to be put on."    I She pointed to a chair, and the girl dropped into it without once removing her eyes from  her face. Mr. FarronL shifted his     2S2      TEN TEARS OF A LIFETIEY[E. position in the (reat chair, and took up some papers from the table, to which he endeavored to draw his wife's atenution    j "Presently," she said, and rang the IWlll. "D? you live with j Iiss Tod?" slhe asked, while waiting an answer. Her tone was polite and not unkind, but neither warm nor interested-offered  J more as a remark than question ; but Jenny instantly replied- "I am her sister, you know." Then the lady said no more till the French girl appeared with  the lace, when she sat down and minutely explaimed the manner in which she desired it put on, and all the possible arrangements of it, to the attentive messenger-attentive to the face of the speaker far more than to the speakefts words, appa ently, for from { it she never removed her eyes. Mrs. Farron seemed perfectly un- conscious of the scrutiny, and, finishing her directi'ns, lose as she did so. The colored man again appeared in the doorway with cards; she took them from the tray and glanced at the names. "Yes, certainly," she said; and he stepped baci to repeat the permission.  "Mr. Albert Leland, Miss Alice Wharton, and Mrs. Wharton," she read aloud, for her husband's hearing, and the next instant the party entered.  Jenny Tod drew back to let them pass by a, a, dropping her parcel, stooped to pick it up as she did so, watching the meeting with upturned and questioning eyes. The elder lady and the gentleman advanced eagerly; but Miss Whbarton's manner had not lost its yesterday's c nstraint. She ' bowed and smiled, and strove to look gracious, but soon sank into the background, leaving the conversation to her mother and Mr. Leland. Jenny got her lace, and, still looking at the party she left behind, disappeared slowly at the turn of the haiL Mr. Farron rose and closed the door with a look of relief. "I scarcely expected to see you in our quiet city, Mr. Lelandf' he said. "I have a way of giving people localities in my own mind when I see them, and somehow I had blilleted you on  New York." "Where I belong," said Mr. Leland, laughing, so as to show  UVL V r rvviv H   MiRS. FARRON  AT HOME.         283 his slining teeth; "so you see your discernment was almost oracular. Yes, New York is really the only place in the United States where one can be thoroughly at home who has ever been in Europe. i I am only staying here." "It is your home, is it not?" asked ['ls. Farron, looking to- wards his promised bride ; "shall you like to leave it?" " am quite willing to do as Mr. Leland decides," said Alice, fondly glancing towards the arbiter of her fate. "If he did not prefer New York, of course, it would have no attraction for me; I am always lost and strange in so much life and bustle." Mrs. Wharton interposed, smiling, with her sweet placid face all benignity- "OOh, you know, it will be delightful! Alice is new to every thing gay; she used to be quite a little anchorite, and we bless Mr. Leland as her rescuer. I'm sure I think it the luckiest thing imauginable that she will be forced to take her place at the head of a New York establishment, and be driveln into society. Such a mope as she had become, when our dear Albert brought her back to us, you can't imagine. I say brought her back, for truly she was lost to all interest in the world or social existence. You naughty little nun! it does me good to see you forced into gayety again.'" Miss Alice sighed, but catching a glance from her lover's eye, cleared up and smiled beamingly. 'I am very-happy in being thought worth his trouble to change. I am always glad to please him, and I'm sure will try to be as gay as you can wish me to be." Scarcely reciprocating this rather demonstrative allegiance, Ir. Leland appeared to dismiss the subject with a slight cough, and turning to Mrs. Farron, entered into an earnest conversation, which monopolized her attention, leaving her husband to conduct the small-talk of Mrs. Wharton and the uneasy monosyllables of her daugnlter into as cheerful a vein as possible. "I remember your daughter, Mrs. Leonard, and her husband, the colonel, talked of travelling for a year or two. I never met them abroad, and supposed they had changed their plans. Was it so?"     281.      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "Yes; they yielded to persuasion. We had been so dull for a year beIore their marriage, that it seemed really unkind and selfish to carry their gayety away when we needed it at home. So they remallined and begall housekeeping at once. When Alice leaves us it will bo cldreadfll, for Jane is so occupied in her charity works, fland Annette's babies claim her attention. I shall have to become a lonely old woman, and nurse my cares and wrinkles." "I think it nlust be a fairy-land-the society of Paris," broke in Alice at this point; " every one who has ever beea there seems to come away enchanted-with each other."   She looked towards her lover and her hostess. iMrs. Farron was evidently being held prisoner in the conversation, and chafed at the restraint. The young gentleman, however, seemed determined that she should not break it, for, seeing that a pause had occurred in twhe general chat, he said, laughingly- "I am going over old ground with Mrs. Farron, and I want her to tell me the sequel to a little adventure I was lappy enougrh to share."  Hle spoke gayly, but had a meaning in his words evidently, for the lady bit her lip quiclly, and lost color. Mr. Farron looked up. "I want to remember where those views are you considered so fine," he said. "Mrs. Wharton will be interested in them as the probable route her daughter will take." "In the portfolio, you gave-I'll bring-pray' don't move-I know exactly where to find them."  She said this quickly, and hur- ried away lest she should be detained.    4 Returning with the pictures, she placed hersef between Mrs. AWhlarton and her husband, and opened the boos on her knees. A[r. Leland came and stood beside her chair, looking over her shoulder at each picture, but not speaking. Alihe, on the other hand, seemed relieved of a strange dread, and joined gayly in the comments and anticipative projects. 1Mrs. Farron became gentle and winning as she found herself ad- dressed freely by the hitherto shy Alice ; her eyes sparkled and her cheeks glowed as she planned pleasant little journeys for her, ,.    MRS. FARRON AT HOME.          285 and pointed out the pictured beauties of scenes whose realities had delighted her own eyes. Under this excitement her whole face changed; the cold, proud quiet melted away like ice in the sunny warmth of enthusiasm, her voice was clear and ringing, and she laughed happily over merry remembrances, and clapped her hands in child-like glee:^- "Oh! I almost wish I were on the wing again, though I have so longed for home, and so rejoiced to find it", she cried, joyously; "but I must be at heart a rover, for the sight of these little sketches warms me up so that I feel like grasping my staff and scallop-shell once more, and starting forth on the highways." Her husband looked down upon the carpet, and seemed to con- sider its pattern narrowly. "You will soon become used to America and American living, and then this interest will pass away," he said, softly. "You can- not expect to root out the habits of a lifetime in a day, and here and Paris are so totally unlike, you must learn to be content." Her face changed, and became quiet and reserved once more. "Oh, yes," she said, in her usual measured way, as one who had not aperfect command of words.   "That is to be hoped for. I like this city-it is very beautiful-and I shall soon be- accustomed to the quiet and absence of change." "I have been thinking," said Alice, slowly and thoughtfllly, "I have been thinking that I have seen Mrs. Farron before. I don't know how it was, but the recollection seemed to flash on me. Now it is gone." Mrs. Wharton shook her head. "A fancy merely, a fancy, Alice," she said. "Mrs. Farron was born in Paris, and is here for the first time; yet really, now I think of it, she is like some one I have seen-and yes-really there is a likeness, and quite a perplexing one." "To whom?" asked Mr. Leland, speaking for the first time since he had taken up his position behind Mr. Farron's chair. "Ah, there it is-I  cannot "think-indeed I did not notice it until after Alice's suggestion, but there is quite an extraordinary ikeness.2"     286      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "To a picture, no doubt," said Mr. Farron, interposing hastily. "That often happens, I think. -One sees a picture that leaves an impression on the mind, and then they trace the likeness of it to some face thy met, wtht        they meet, without remembering the subjec and become confused by it in consequence."  "Yes, to be sure, that may be it," assented Mrs. Wharton, slowly, and looking but half convinced. "We should beg Mrs. Farron's pardon for so much puzzling personality," suggested Mr. Leland. Mrs. Farron was carefully tracing out localities on the sketches, apparently oily half con- scious of the tone of conversation. "I do, I am sure," said Alice, "and entirely withd aw my asser- tion that I must have known her before. I have lost the sudden likeness I discovered, and scarcely believe that it existed at all." "We are staying unconscionably long. Mrs. Farrdn must blame herself and her beautiful pictures that have held us captors," and. Mrs. Wharton rose. Mr. Leland drew near his hostess, and said in a low tone-/ "I must see you again, and apologize for the annoyance I have caused you. I was most unfortunate in my allusion to that first meeting of ours." She drew back and stood beside her husband; but still there was a glance of entreaty that shot from her drooping eyelids and met his fixed gaze. It seemed to put him in better humor-he smiled, and bowed, and talked himself and friends out into the hall, and with many ceremonies of leave-taking on the part of Mrs. Wharton, who was bent on cultivating the family, they departed. In the room they had left husband and wife side by side. "You task yourself too far, Blanche," said he, looking at her earnestly and compassionately; "a mere word, meaningless, except  so far as your actions indorse it, sets you trembling and tingling i in every nerve."                         No, it is that miserable, wretched, deluded girl-she breaks  my heart to look at her."  "I dislike that lover of hers-let us see no more of him than we    MRS. FARRON AT HOME.         287 can help. His manner is silly to impertinence when he addresses you. Where did you learn to know him so well?" Mrs. Farron spoke anxiously and with some confusion- Oh, it was a raining night-a chance meeting-and he will count upon it to my annoyance. I beg that you will help me to avoid him in every way possible." "It will scarcely need more than your own will to do that. He will be married soon to that foolish girl, who has made an idol of him because she has a fortune to bestow. We will not be likely to meet often." "Oh, I hope not-I trust not. It is very silly to confess it, but he distresses me beyond endurance; and I never will meet him again, if I can prevent it.7 She paced the floor in great excitement for a moment or two, and chafed at herself for giving way to it at the same time. Su1d- denly she paused by the door. There, on the rich carpet, by the foot of a chair, lay a little wristhand made of black velvet, trimmed with a narrow lace ; the button that had fastened it had fallen off, and it had dropped from the arm of the little milliner when she had stooped to pick up her parcel.. Instantly the lady, caught it up, and, strange to say, pressed it to her lips. Standing with face turned from her husband, she held it to her mouth and breast, and wept over it as if it were something sacred. He came near, laid his hand upon her shoulder- "We had better have stayed in Paris, Blanche," he said. "Oh, no," she answered, quickly ; "it is right and proper that I should meet what lies before me. I was skulking there like a coward; and I am a coward still, I fear." "You are my own dear wife," he said, fondly and caressingly. She put the ribbon in her bosom, and turned and laid her head upon his breast.     288      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. CHAPTER XXXIV. A SPECTRE FROMT THE PAST. As Mr. George Campbell sat in his office the day after his visit to Mr. Richard Tracy, the -same agreeably-disposed servant- man that opened the door for him stood in his presence, with an envelope in his hand bearing the lawyer's directions. "You are to read this, sir, if you'll be so kind, and let me have the answer," said this person. "My name is Jaames Kennedy, and l I'm the man you saw at Mr. Tracy's."              I "Oh, I remember you, of course; but I can't conceive what    Mr. Tracy desires to write, when I am to see him this evening." "But you know, sir, I told you he would be glad of the little worry you left him--about the boy-you'll remembers Why, sir, he's been in a sort of dismal clover ever since, and this is about the same thing." Mr. George tore off the cover and read. The man was right: Mr. Tracy was afraid that he had allowed some of the particulars to escape his attention-"Did the boy leave Mr. Campbell's em- ploy secretly? or, was there at present any trace existing of his whereabouts?" Then came a P. S., to say that Mr. Tracy must excuse himself from that evening's engagement, being totally un- able to meet society in his present state of mind, the dreadful loss of his dear boy so lately revived, etc. Mr. Campbell looked askance at the waiting messenger over the top of the note-  "Now, what does this gentleman mean?" he asked. "Making an appointment, and deliberately breaking it, is rather a queer kind of business, I think."' "Well now, sir," asked James Kennedy, candidly, " what would you expect from such a gentleman but that kind of doings? Poor man, lie has had his own troubles, and I'm sorry for him; but he's had them so long that he makes comforts of them, and what would become of him if he was suddenly freed from them all, no one can tell. You see, sir, a gentleman in deep grief is out of   A SPECTRE FROM THE PAST.         289 place at a party; but if you have a mind to do him a good turn, write only a word or two, and let him come to you for the rest of it. Just seeing and talking to you will do him good, particularly when he thinks he is pleasingo himself in doing it," Mr. Campbell drew near his writing-table, and began, " Dear sir," then paused, and looked at the man who stood expectant and in- terested beside him. "You seem to understand him thoroughly," he said. "Now, why can't you do something  to keep his mind-s busy, or bring it above brooding over old sores?" "So you may say, sir," replied James, readily; " but that is one thing and doing is another. Why, if I was to go down on my knees to him, I couldn't drive him out of his own course, just be- cause he knows I know him; but for any reasonably strange per- son who seems to have no objection what they say, it's quite another thing." "Well, well, I'm sorry for him-and I like the stock he comes of; that's enough for me. I'll say a word or two as you suggest, and let him come to me for the rest. By the by, did he ever have any talk with that policeman, Fry? He struck me as being on the alert; and, in fact, before I had well made up my mind how to state Bob Tod's case to the police-judge, he was there taking notes of rthe whole matter. He seemed to have something the same ideas about the men Bob saw, though where they went to was more than he could say. They disappeared, he said, " as if the earth had swallowed them." "Don't speak of him at all, sir. My brother was the comrade of him who took charge of the house where the trouble was, aild he charged him not to mention his name to the old gentleman on any account, for a particular reason he had." "Then I'll close this at the word, and sign myself ready to see him at his own convenience; and, James, if you can get the poor soul to take a pen in his hand and scrawl a word or two to his poor aunt at Hemlock Lodge, it will be Christian charity, and heaven will reward you." James shook his head despairingly, and departed with the few words that Mr. George had vouchsafed to write ; and it being now 13     290      TEN YEARS OF .A LIFETIME., near Ihis usual lour for leaving his office, that gen-tleman4 rose and toolk a turn up and down before putting on }his hat and leaving things in charge of his clerks. As he reached the door of ground glass that led into the outer office, he became aware ofa shadowy form pressing aUgainst it violently, and in the next instant Kitty Donahue burst into the room, pale and excited, almost beyond the power of speech. "Sure, Mr. George, she's dyinog like her poor angel of a sister,' I roared she, at Hength, after various ineffectual gasps. "TiotMh,  we're beginning our black days agin, and sorra' a thing there is in the world but trouble for thim thi ats born to it!1"  Mr. George stood still, and started blankly for some moments at this olstreperous mourner; ;but suddenly laying violent hands up-on  her, he demanded that she should speak out, and not stand roaring and holwling il a manuer calculated to drive a man out of his senses. Thus adjured, she took heart to compose herself sufficiently to say that Miss Debby had returned from drinking tea with her cousins in unusual spirits the night before; that she had got up be- times " in regard of a little divarsion of sewing r she had before her-for Kitty, though dreadfblly overcome, was still too mindful of the family honor to betray the secret of the business. There was no one but herself in the house, except, indeed, little Jenny Tod, who had gone up to her room for a nap, to sleep off the headache. Miss Tod was out, so was the old lady; and Kitty her- self was making the market for the family dinner. How the acci- dent happened was more than any one could tell, but " all of a suddint Jenny heard a wild scrache, and flying to the head of the stair, saw Miss Debby stretched in the lower hall, wid a face as white as a sheet, and as stiff as a corpse, and no more sinse in her nor if she was a board."  The hall-door was open, Kitty said; but who could have been there no one knew, or whether Miss Debby, feeling faint, had set it open for air. "All that's lift of her now is a wild faver, and siclh ravings as would break a heart of stone to listen to; and she's namaing; you, sir, and the doctor bid vz fetch ye."   A -SPECTRE FROM THE PAST.         29 "'In heaven's name, woman," cried the distracted Mr. George, with a sense of going demented strong upon him, " when did this happen?-was it this afternoon she fell down senseless, or was it yesterday--no, it couldn't have been yesterday, for I saw her last night. Speak up and tell me, if: you have a voice in your throat." 4"Och, Mr. George, it's a wonder I have a heart in me body wid the trouble I've seen. Yes, yes, it was to-day, of coorse, and here I am laving her; but nobody knowed the way but mesilf; and sure she don't know who comes or who goes, so she can't miss me, poor thing." "I'll go with you at once and see her," cried Mr. George, in his excitement totally disregarding the position of- appearing in the streets as Kitty's escort and gallant. "Why, in mercy's name, could these women never consent to do as other people do, and take their chances of life and health rationally, instead of reeking off suddenly in deliriums and such like." But though Mr. George appeared angry, he was in reality ter- ribly grieved, and followed his stalwart conductress on a keen trot, not unlike her own native pace. Between his office and the home of the Tod family not one word was exchanged between them; but reaching the front hall and opening the door, Kitty burst out into tearful inquiry, in stento- rian strength of voice- "Orra, how is she now?" she cried. "Here's Mr. George, her own   cousin, and it's him should be near her, to take her dying words." This hopeless outhreak she closed in violent sobbing; and Miss Tod, appearing at the sound, took her gently by the arm, and strove to quiet her. "Kitty, you must be still," she said at length, Authoritatively; "it will make Miss Debby worse instead of better if she hears your voice in such a scream. Mr. Campbell, the doctor says Miss Debby has received a   terrible shock of some nature, and we can- not define its cause. She is quieter now, and we think it wonld do her good to see you." Nodding in reply, Mr." George followed her up-stairs, and to his     292      TEiN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. astonishment found Miss Debby seated in an easy-chair, it being impossible to prevail on her to lie down, so great was her terror of some inexplicable phantom she had conjured up. If ever a hu- man face expressed fear and trouble it was her poor, pale coun- tenance, as it lay white and contracted in every muscle from the effect of fright. "Why, poor darling that you are," said Mr. George, tenderly, and really not without tears, "what in the world has come over you, to put you in this way? You seemed so like the good old time last night that we were all in high spirits about you, and here you are, to-day, worse than ever." His cousin recognized him, it was plain to see, and she made an - effort to sit upright and speak, but her strength was not equal to her wish, and she sank back again, motioning with her hand to- wards him, as if to detain him near her. Close beside her stood Jenny, watchful, and ready to smooth her pillow and cool her head. That she was now in a burning fever, her strange color and the sharp brilliance of her eyes. indi- cated; but the little nurse assured Mr. George that she was much better and calmer than she had been at first; and added that, if she had not been very ill, they would not have sent for him. "I'm glad to have come, and if I bad not been sent for I should have blamed you all very much," said Mr. George. "But now tell me what you know about- this. Kitty says you were the only one who was in the house when it occurred." "I was lying down with a headache," said Jenny, watching Miss Debby's face closely, to see how far she followed what was being said. "My room is on the third floor, and the door was closed, but I think I heard the door-bell ring once, twice, three times- each time more distinctly." Here Jenny paused suddenly, for Miss Debby's hand, with a great  effort, was raised and placed upon her mouth, and, struggling up into a sitting posture, the sick woman cried out, "No, no-you don't know what it was--you are all wrong, all wrong." Then she fell back again, and feebly shook her head to veto all that might be said by any one on the subject.   A SPECTRE  FROM THE PAST.        293 "This is most extraordinary," said XMr. George, speaking to Mar- garet Tod. "She is too weak to speak intelligibly, and yet she is burning with fever. See, she is writhing as if in pain. She has fallen so as to hurt her spine--that's it, depend upon it-and you have had a stupid, ass of a doctor who calls it hysterics, and gives her quieting drops."' 6' Oh, uo, sir," returned Margaret, quickly, " the doctor is the same who waited on Miss :Norah, and he knew both the ladies well. He said he must soothe her startled nerves before he was able to do any thing, or decide any thing about the case." Mr. George drew a chair close beside his cousin, and, sitting himself down, leant his chin upon his cane, and looked steadily on the carpet. Kitty came in and looked hopelessly and tearfully on her poor mistress; then went out again, evidently struggling against an outhurst of despair.  Mrs. Tod succeeded her on tiptoe, and whispered her inquiries and lamentations into her eldest daughter's ear, who answered inaudibly.  Meantime Jenny Tod moved about noiselessly, and busied herself in little arrangements that brought her nearer and nearer to Mr. George's side. At length sle touched him lightly on the arm.  Thinking it accidental, he moved aside without looking up, and presently she touched him again. Then he raised his head and caught her eye. She stood directly behind Miss Debby and out of range of her mother or sister's sight, and motioned slowly with her lips. Amazed and somewhat discon- certed, he rose up, still watching her. Miss Debby instantly became  conscious of his movements, and put out her hand, saying, in the same weak way-"Stay, George; I want you near me."' But the little woman's lips and eyes urged him to go. Irreso- lutely he looked from the one to the other, when the elder Miss Tod came to his assistance. "Miss Debby,", she said, soothingly,  " we cannot keep Mr. George here all the time; and the doctor says when you take this draught you must lie down   and try to sleep. Tf you could only rest quiet alittle while, there would be no trouble in getting you  pwell again."     294      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "Yes, Debby; I'll be back presently," urged Mr. George, somewhat at random. "I forgot that it was so near tea-time; and the girls and their mother will be anxious to hear how you're doing. I'll come in again during the evening--and good-by, and God bless you, till then." So, without taking the trouble to think of the absurdity of sup- posing his wife and girls anxious about an illness of which they had heard nothing, the confused gentleman backed himself out on i the landing, still under the influence of Jenny's mysterious eyes. . CHAPTER   XXXVX.               JENNY. FINXDING himself there alone, he suddenly took thougiht of what might be the nature of her signals ; and, seeing no solution before himn, was fain to go softly down-stairs with laborious caution, and a generally dazed condition of mind. IReachingr the door, he fumbled around the hat-rack in the dim, unlighted vestibule, and started to find his hand grasped firmly and his head drawn down- ward by the grasp of Jenny Tod. "I want to speak to you," said this strange little person; " and if you wait at the corner I'll join you there." As a general rule, Mr. George was a man impatient of all underhand work or lplotting; but as he had always looked upon his relations as modern Sphinxes, this new idea struck him as only' another aspect of the insolvable riddle they were fated to be. So, with a half intelligible affirmative, he hurried out, and, reaching the designated locality, stood still under a lamp, awaiting Jenny's appearance. She came almost immediately, having only paused to put on a scarf and hood, and, without the least particle of parley or introduction, entered on her mission': "If you want to know why your cousin was frightened, Mr. Campbell, I will tell you. There was a man came here-I saw   JENNY.            295 him from my upper window when I went to elose out the sun ; he wras watchingl the house, and at last crossed over. It was le w1ho rallng the bell; and Miss Debby, thinking me asleep, answered it. He hadn't time to speak to her more than a dozen words when I heard hcer'cry out; and when I went down, the door stood wide open, and he was gone..'7 Mr. George felt his hair gradually rising on end, and a cold perspiration breaking out over his forehea&d ' Are yon telling the truth?l? le gasped, with a quick suspicion flashing on his mind of his companion's sanity. "Is it your habit to go any way wrong in your head, my young friend?' Jenny laughed a short, sharp laugh  '"Why?-because I'm short and lame? Is that the reason you question my truth and reason? For shame, sir! I'm trying to give you a clue to your relation's trouble, and you take me for a cheat." "I beg your pardon, I'm sure. This is a queer business., and a man may be excused for a little confusion, of words and ideas. You see, I have always looked on my family and belongings as respectable people; and to be suddenly told that they are in league with vagrants takes the'breath from me." "No, no ; you are too quick in your conclusions. I believe this man to be a wretch that Miss Debby fears, because he is in her power, and she dreads the necessity of bringing him to justice. I believe he did a terrible deed once, which Miss Debby more than suspects, yet dreads to believe, and that he knows her nature and plays upon it, 9 'Hold on, young woman, where' you are-if you go further you'll take away my power to follow you, and leave me without a wit to my name. Who did a black deed, in heaven's name? and how in all the crooked ways of fortune did my Cousin Debby fall il with him V? "That's more than I can tell you. I have always had my own thoughts, but I have no riglht to tell them. There is a man-a wicked, evil wretch--with crime and degradation stamped in every -feature, and he has the power to torment your cousin, as his pres-     296      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. ence proved to-day. She will never give him up to justice, and her only hope of deliverance lies in you; for this I have told you what I have. Nothing would tempt me to break faith with her; but I'm under no promise, and I come to you because I know no one  else to go to. "I'm beholden to you," said Mr. George, still confusedly, and  standing with his hat off, the better to rub up his damp hair, which he was ruffling all over his head in his excitement. "I'll try to think over what you're kind enough to petrify me with; and if I can make any sense out of it or out of myself, per- haps I may be able to help my unfortunate cousin. What kind    of-"'  "There, then- quick-look--there, hle darts round the corner- i that's him-run for your life-lay hold of him--run-"   With these broken exclamations, delivered in a shrill scream, Jenny in- telrrupted him, and pointing out ahead of them, pushed and drove Mr. George before her, in the effort to start a pursuit of some un- known object. "Where, what, which?  Who do you mean?    Speak, you young witch that you are I Speak!" cried Mr. George in reply, turning round and round. "Oh, stupid I stupid!" exclaimed Jenny, angrily; "he passed you by, and looked in your face, and you never saw him. You lost a chance, and a good one-and I believe that he knew you, from the way he fixed you with his eyes." "Well, by this and by that, I don't wonder the poor girl yonder is queer, living in a houseful of the like of you. If I'd stay another half-hour with you, I'd be mad myself as a March hare. As true as I'm a living man, I believe you're in league with the evil one. :Not a soul went by us that I could see, and yet you set off a hue and cry, and startle me so that I can't tell which end I'm standing  Then go home and get your thoughts about you," remarked Jenny, coolly. "Some people have to turn their wits round every new idea before it gives them a definite impression, and you'd bet- ter take time to understand what I've told you. Only be sure of   KITTY'S ENTERTAINMENT.         297 this, that I love Miss Debby and mean to serve her-and I know no one else to go to, or I wouldn't go to you." Withl this parting charge, Jenny tightened the scarf about her and ran home; and Mr. George, after looking after her till she disappeared in her own doorway, shook his head again and again, and went on his way, still wagging it in a most unsatisfactory manner. CHAPTER XXXVI. KITTY'S ENTERTAINMENT. MRS. PHL ROONEY, formerly Miss Mary Brady, came in great state to make an evening visit to the kitchen of the Tod family, the night after Miss Debby had fallen so suddenly ill. The visit was not positively expected; but Mrs. Tod herself, after meeting her at old Christy's funeral, had extended a cordial invitation'to her ; and Mary, nothing loth, had remarked to her lord-"What do you think, Phil, if we'd go up and see Kitty a bit? The poor cravture's lonely of a night, after slaving away for dear life all day." Mr. Rooney, not being, as a general thing, much inclined to en- counter strange society, replied in effect that he'd rather stand up to his neck in a bog nor go and sit forninst yon crippled crayture wid the big eyes, that had always met him in the door whenever his fate had led him in that direction. "Ocl, but yer bad off wid yer delicate notions! What hurt would she do ye, I'd like to know. We can't all be born straight and handsome, so we can't. Put on a clean shirt, and make yer- self dacint, so that I won't be disgraced by the look of ye, and come along." Mr. Rooney hereupon gave up his personal objections, and suc- cumbed, as an amiable husband should. Thus it turned out that they both presented themselves, after early tea-time, clad in their best, and much flushed with the exciting nature of the occasion. 13'     298      T TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. Mr. Rooney laid his hand timidly on the bell, under strong ap- prehension of Jenny's eyes ; but Mrs. Tod herself opened the door, and being a woman of a strongly developed social turn, and gen- erally much oppressed by the genteel restraint placed on her by her daughter, she welcomed the visitors with cheerful warmth, and conducted them down to the basement with much hospital lc dc- monstration. "For to tell you the truth," she remarked, "lit's the only comfortable .place in the house. The parlors is chuck full of bonnet-fixins, and it's rather coolish after the rain to-day. There's i a spark of fire down here in the chimbley, where Kitty's been a   doing a little ironing, and things is kind of cheerful."  It was evident from a -first glance at Kitty that she was not  " comprehended in the summary of cheerful things ; her countenance expressed settled gloom and determined melancholy, that not even  her greeting to her guests could entirely dispel. "Ye look poorly, Kitty woman," remarked Mr. Rooney sym- patheticallv. "What's wrong with ye, any way?" "Wec're all wrong, Phil," Kitty answered, with increasing trouble. "Sure, Miss Debby was tuck bad wid screeching and working like a body in a fit yesterday, and it brings back the ould times to me, and sets me grieving and worrying till I hardly know what ails me." "Now, I tell Kitty," interposed Mrs. Tod at this point, "says I, Kitty, what's the use of gitting into such a stew about every thing? Folks is often took jest so, and they soon come round agin, and git all right. Why, I had a sister that the leastest touch'would upset, and she'd fall to screaming if you'd come be- hind her suddint, any time." "An' who come behind Miss Debby?" inquired Mary, with interest and surprise. "Ye talk as if some trouble had befell her." "Och, niver a one of me knows at all," said Kitty, shaking her head. "She was in a terrible way yesterday, and through the night she couldn't close her eyes to rest; but to-day she's some way feeling better, and is up working in her own room. Troth, ye may well stare, Mary Brady, but it's truth I'm telling ye. She's    - L 4.2- L . zLi k * ', . A.7  working away in her own room, and ye can't prevail wid her to put it out of her hands," "My girls, MAargaret and Jenny, is both a setting by her, and they say she's better with something to occupy her mind. I 'spose she is; but it never would be iy way--that's one thing sure. Kitty, stir up the fire, will you, and set on the kittle; and, Miss Rooney, jest lay off yer bonnet as soon as yer rested." "Och, Kitty, I'm sorry for ye, but ye know ye've a way of tak- ing trouble before it comes. Thank ye, ma'an ; I'll jist put it down beside me on the table. Phil, don't be troubling her wid yer hat; lave it under yer chair, where it'll be handy to yer hand when yer going away." "Miss Debby"s cousin, Mr. George Campbell, has been here three times to-day, and the young ladies is most attentive," said Mrs. Tod, with conscious pride in the connection. "They couldn't be more devoted if she was a princess, I'm sure. Oh! it's a good thingl to have fine friends, I tell you."7 Mi' Miss Debby hersilf is aiquil tol the best of thim--it's no conde- scension in life on their parts ; sure if it comes to that, it's her should be the one to put on airs. Solrra a one that saw her onst would belave what she's come to now, working like a common milliner." In no wise offended at this slighting mention of her daughters' craft, Mrs. Tod encouraged the retrospect into which Kitty'was falling, being assured from experience that it would soothe her ruffled spirits, and bring her back to the present with a better mind to meet its troubles. So Kitty went backwards into past sunshine, and grew eloquent over b ygone happiness. She gave her listeners a general. summary of the superiority of Irish life in any phase, and the unapproachable glory and,delight of the existence of the gentry. Then she came domyn to personalities, and sketched, with a few word-strokes, the first blush of Miss Debby's girlish beauty. "She was like a young rose wid the light shining in its dew, and tge laugh of her was like a silver bell; but, oh I Miss Norah was the beauty of the county, and the gentlemen were all raving dis- tracted about her."     300      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "It's a wonder she niver tuck up wid one of thim," suggested Mrs. Rooney, proud of her own prowess in that respect.  But Kitty was carried on the wings of her theme above vulgar sur- mises, so slhe told how they had gone in their own carriage to their first ball, and how Miss Norah had "led off wid the son of a lord," and how Miss Dchby wore " raal gims that had belonged to her great-grandmother before her." Then her voice fell from its tri- umlhlant pitch, and shle sighed deeply, and shook her her head. "It was all trouble, black trouble, druv thim to Ameriky," she said; "but sure, they can look back and remimber thim times, and it's more nor the best of the Americans can do, any way."    I With this closing, comfort, Kitty's spirits rose. She huddled away the ironing things and drew the tea for a modest evening en-  I tertainment. MArs. Tod, not to be behindhand in friendly feeling, spread out on the table a plate of cakes and some stewed fruit as accomupaniments, with the additional viands of crackers and cheese. When these preparations were concluded, and Kitty had produced a small bottle of spirits for Phil9s private delectation, Mr. and Mrs. Rooney, who had remained placidly unconscious of their progress, inspecting the flies on the ceiling, were enjoined by Kitty to " draw up their chairs and fall to."  At this invitation they evinced some surprise, and said that " sure they didn't come to be a trouble ; and if Alrs. Tod was going to put herself out in this way, they'd never look near the place at all at all."  Relenting under further pressing, they declared it was a great treat entirely, and they hadn't looked for the like; after which they "fell to" with vigor, and enjoyed every thing to the highest degree. "Och, Kitty, do ye know where I was yesterday?" said -Mrs. Rooney, after a pause devoted to refreshments, and genteelly sip- ping her tea from her cup, rather than be reduced to pouring it out to cool vulgarly in her saucer. "Well, I'll tell ye : I hadn't laid eyes on one of the ladies for months, and thinks I to myself, I'll take little Phil by the hand and go up the length, for Mrs. Wharton was always highly-pleased to see little Phil. Well, what do ye think the cook  tould me? It jist tuck the breath out of me bodly. Aliss Alice is to be married in a few weeks to a young gentleman   KITTY'S ENTERTAINMENT.         301 named Layland, and, says Biddy) says she, ' Ye niver saw love till now. She's jist dying about him, and they're all giggling at her behint her back, and make the greatest sport. of the way she goes on.' Och, would ye belave that she could come to-the like?" "Troth would I, for I saw it wid me own eyes. They're mak- ing up the finery for her up-stairs, and sometimes I open the door for them. It just makes me wake to look at sich doings, for well I know what they'll bringD her to. As true as yer there, she'll rue the day she tuck up wid yon lad." "And she was so bitter agin her sister for marrying the colonel, she wint round in her black dress like a ghost, at the wedding, and nothing could make her look up or smile. I niver expected to see her in sich a way on her own account." "It's a new notion, I hear, and iviry one's wondering at it well as as uz." Hereupon Mr. Rooney ventured to break from Mrs. Tod, who, finding him passive in her hands, had talked to him without inter- mission on the subject of the court they had lived in, and the street where they now dwelt, the comparative merits of neighbor- hoods, and the incidents of the place. Not being vitally interested in either locality, he had preserved a discreet silence, and attended, with a meek downcastness of the eyes, to all she said; but now he considered a young lady attacked for whom   he had conceived a chivalric regard, and hastening to the rescue, he declared roundly that Kitty talked like an old maid, and a bitter one at that. "And as for you, Molly, a body'd think yer own nose, was held to the grindstone, by the way ye talk. What would ail the swate young lady, that ye'd think her wrong in getting married?  Sure it's what ye all try for, and whin ye fail ye turn round and throw stones at thim that win." "Hould yer tongue, Phil, ye gander; ye don't know what yer' spak- ing about. Kitty, did ye know how the match was brought about 3' "I niver heard a  word of it, till she came wid the young man to order her bonnet." "Tell us, Mrs. Rooney, if you please," urged Mrs. Tod, eager for the news.     302      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. c"Well, it was the cook tould me, and she says they met the young man at the Cape, where they were airly in the season, on account of the old lady's taking wake. Well, there's something about the bathing that cook couldn't make plain to me, but she says ye go walking into the water jest as bould as ye plase, and the big' waves come up over ye all so fierce, and you not a bit mismoved by it. But it seems that Miss Alice was timid-like, and didn't ! like to go, only the doctor ordered it; and one day what they call the surf broke over her, and carried her out wid it intil the sea, whin me bould young man, Mr. Layland, was standing near, and he outs X after her and brings her back in his arms as brave as yer plase, and she not knowing a ha'pworth, but intirely insinsible from frighht."  "Why, but they give her a sup of warm whiskey?" cried Mr.  Rooney, much interested in his wife's recital.          i "The likes of thim don't know whiskey by the name, but they have the ilegantest of Frinch brandy, and they brought her to on that, ye must know." "Well, well, Im glad of that,"' murmured her husband, feeling- ly. Mrs. Rooney continued: "Ye must know, Miss Alice has more money nor the rist of thim, being left a fortune by her grandmother, after which she was christened. So she was in a great way to knoNw all about her    presarver, as she called him ; and somebody tould her he was very i poor-that some rich relation that had brought him up had turned agin him, and left him wid a penny, as ye may say. The cook  tould me in confidence, that after that she as good as offered her- self to him, to the surprise of the whole family, who can't under- { stand the turn she's tuck so suddint."'  "Faith it's a quare turn, and one that I bet she'll rue before she comes to the ind of it," said Kitty, oracularly-" to tie herself for life to a man that she knows nothing about, because he trck her out of the water, whin any dacint crayture would have done the very same for her, so they would." "The family all have a quare touch. Do ye mind what I tould ye oust about the cousin that Mrs. Wharton was so fond of? Well, the same thing follies thim, all-they'd give up their lives for   KITTY'S ENTERTAINMENT.         303 the one fancy. Miss Nettie .was just as bad about the colonel, and so was poor Miss Nell that died." Just at this moment the kitchen-door flew open, and little Jenny, catching her hood off a peg, hobbled briskly up the back- steps, and almost'ran out of the yard above. "What are you after, Jenny?" cried Mrs. Tod, running quickly to the foot of the stair, and looking after her; but the girl was gone, and gave back no reply. "What can be the matter with Jenny?" said her mother, anxiously, returning to the table. "That's the second time she's dashed off; and she didn't tell me why, 6ither./ "( Here she is back again now," said Kitty; and, true enough, Jenny returned, though much more slowly than she had gone. a"Now, what was it, Jenny, that took you off in such a canter?" inquired her mother. "I saw you start onst before, but forgot to ask you about it." "Nothing, nothing, nothing," answered Jenny, unsatisfactorily; "and being nothing, I came backi-don't you see?" "I see that you are full of your nonsense, .and nobody can get any thing out of you when-" "There's nothing to be got,'9 interrupted iJenny, and laughed, as she replaced her hood on the wooden pins behind the door. "Mrs. Rooney, how do you do? and how's- Mr. Rooney? My mother didn't give me time to speak to you at first, or I should have been more polite. Oh, pray don't get up to go, or I shall think you object to my society 1" This being really and decidedly Mr. Rooney's state of mind, he made no effort to disguise the truth, but stood up determinedly, and avowed his belief that it was late enough for everybody to be turning' their faces homewards, which was certainly where he meant to go. So Jenny's erratic chase broke up Kitty's entertainment; and the party being at an end, that female's despondency returned with renewed violence, so that she remarked to Mrs. Tod, after seeing the party out--"The likes of me has no right to be making merry, when I have enough on me heart to weigh me down into the     304      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. grave; for if Miss Debby comes to any trouble, it's as sure as we're talking, I'll never live a day after her." But Mrs. Tod considered this in the light of mere sentiment, and made a cheerful rejoinder, to the effect that, if Kitty waited till then, she would live to a good old age, for Miss Debby would soon be all right again, and laugh at them for their fears. CHAPTER XXXVII. "LY CAMPBELL S BIT OF FUN. MR. GEORGE CAMPBELL, after his cousin's illness, became so dif- ferent a man that his family scarcely recognized in him their former parent. - He was quick, nervous, anxious, and restless : started up if spoken to suddenly, or sometimes fell into such deep thought as to fail hearing when he was addressed by his daughters. Then he was full of an odd sort of business that took him into all the strange nooks and corners of the city, and kept him away from, his home at meal-time, to the great discomfiture of his wife, whose only regularity of habit consisted in her never-failing presence at the table. This lasting for some time, that lady was startled out of her general quietude to the extent of mentioning the fact to her daughters.                   - "Do you know why your father stays away from dinner, and comes so late to tea?" she asked of Rose. "It is dreadful to see things spoilt by waiting, and I have made up my mind to ask him if he doesn't mean to come any more; and then we needn't wait, but have things comfortable." "I think it must be business," said Rose, meditatively; " that is, it certainly cannot be pleasure, or he would look as if he enjoyed it more than he does." "There's a policeman in it, and a queer-looking girl with a crooked spine and splendid eyes," said Lily, looking up from a, book she had been reading.   "LY CAMPBELL'S BIT OF FUN.         305 Mrs. George considered both these propositions of an over- whelming nature, and looked feebly from one to the other with a helpless stare. Her second daughter's sense of duty was never equal to her quick perceptions. She now broke out laughing heartily, and threw aside her book for the freer indulgence of her merriment. "You dear, stupid mother!7" she cried; "you look as if you saw us all arrested and led off to receive sentence. It is enough to make one shout with laughter to look at your apprehensive countenance. Let me explain, and set your heart at rest. I saw the policeman in the office twice when I was there yesterday; and the girl met papa last night near the door as he was com- ing in to tea, and was here again this morning before he left for the office." "Well, really," said Mrs. Campbell, drawing a long breath, "that all seems to me quite mysterious ; but I hope there is noth- ing in the affair that reaches us, that is all I shall care for." "There's nothing that will bother any one, you may be sure, mamma," said Rose, soothingly. "Lily, I must say you have a genius for discoveries; and they generally tend to make people un- comfortable too, which is a pity." But Mrs. George had had her short thought out on the subject, and feeling convinced that she was free from personal molestation, now dismissed it entirely, and returned to another that, next to Mr. George's absence, weighed on her mind. "It seems strange to me, girls, that you will persist in having an evening entertainment while your father's mind is so occupied; and all the people will be left distractingly on my hands. I don't in the least trust you when there is music or dancing in the case. You'll forget all about receiving or introducing people, and I shall be driven wild about names that I never can remember, though your fatheir is so excellent at those things." s"Papa positively promised to be at home to-night, and pray don't worry any more about it-there will only be a few; and it is positively unavoidable, after what we owe the Farrons, not to show them some politeness."     306      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME If your father will stay, of course it will be all right'; but - dongt  know what I shall do if he is callod away, as he las got: into the habit of being every little while.'" Tlhis conversation was held in the young ladies' room, on the forenoon of the evening when the expectecd few were to be enter- tained under Mr. Camlpbell's hospitable roof; and an h]our or two later his younger daughter dropped in upon hinm in his office to ad- mlonish him to be at holme early, and with a miund made up and determined to remain there during the- evening. She found him sitting idle, except so far as the occupation of his mind might be called labor, yzt it would have seemed that no lack of business to be done accounted for his listless mood&  Bundles of papers and unopened letters lay before him awaiting attention, but evidently receiving none. "See here, Lily," he said, suddenly whirling round in his office chair, " have either you or Rose tried to persuade Debby to come up this tvening. I saw her this morning, and she says she's doing remarkably, getting as well as ever, and that the faint or fit, or whatever you may choose to call it, that she had the other day, was nothing but nonsense, that she tries to laugh at now; but don't succeed very well, I must say." "Why, you know, papa," began Lily, slowly, "you know that nothing( would ever prevail on aunt Debby to meet company; and I for my part cannot see how we could expect her to do so, con- siderinog her relations to most of our friends." "You'll drive me to desperation, with your relations to your friends. Foolish girl that you are, do you know that, what with your lofty notions, and your mother's dislike to trouble herself, the poor lonely girl mayv be suffering under some load that no one but herself can know or understand?"' Mr. George spoke with a passion so unusual that his daughter looked up in blank astonishment, and being much in the habit of ruling her parent, either by smiles or tears, now resorted to the latter, declaring that he had frightened the wits out of her, by ac- cusing her of coldness and neglect towards her dear aunt Debby, whom she loved with all her heart, etc., etc,   "LY CAMPBELL'S BIT OF FUN.        307 Not feeling at all satisfied with himself, nor particularly well- humored with anybody else, Mr. George merely pooh-poohed such a demonstration, and gave his attention suddenly to the papers before him, dismissing his daughter with a hint that she had better save her tears for real trouble, and opinitg that there was plenty before her yet. . That being her own impression, as far as the folly of wasting ineffectual emotion went, Miss Lily Campbell dried her eyes and proceeded to fan away the slight inflammation she had been at osome pains to create before the office glass that hung above her father's head. Being thus engaged, she started to hear a strangely uneven and inconsistent voice speaking at her shoulder. It belonged to as strange a looking gentleman, as she discovered on looking round,-a man prematurely old and feeble, with brilliant young eyes and a weak trembling mouth, whose hair was white enough for seventy, and whose complexion was smooth enough for young manhood. His bearing was -as unequal as his voice and appear- ance-one moment he stood upright with a quickening light inl every-feature, and the next he drooped and wliined, and rubbed his hands over each other with pitiful nervousness. "A moment or two in private, if you please, Mr. Campbell," he was praying--"just a moment, please; I have an item that I have just learned, and one of some importance, I'm thinking." "Certainly, Mr. Tracy," said Mr. George, rising. "This is my daughter Lily-my second daughter--the one who went with me to your aunt's place, by the by. Wait a bit, Lily ; this gentleman will like to speak to you about your visit, no doubt." But Mr. Tracv scarcely seemed to bear out such a supposition in his actions or manner; in truth le seemed anxious to esca:pe into the little inner office in coumpany with her father. [Now, Miss Lily Campbell was a young- person actuated at most times by a spice of pcrverseness, and the instant she discovered that the con- tradictory-looking gentleman was Mr. Tracy, about whom she had heard a good deal, and saw for herself that he would much rather avoid than talk with her, did she become imbued with a strong     308      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. and earnest desire to relate to him all the particulars of her Hem- lock Loldge experience ; and with that end in view she sat herself down quietly on a sofat near the door, to await the moment of his reallpperance. He came, after an intervtl of wonder on her part as to whlat new notion her father hlad in reference to Miss Dobby, and 'cat;lling a glimpse of her pretty little figure, ma cde an uncer- tain kind of sidling towards the door. But she b  iega n, as fr'ankly. and naturally as possible- "Oh! I'm so glad, lMr. Tracy, to see you, and L-, able to tell you all about your dear aunt, old Mrs. Law--suchl a charning old lady!-a perfect picture to look at!" Mr. Richard Tracy, broken down and altered as he was, had al- ways been a gentleman, and now he yielded himself as a listener with no sign of protest except the workingt of his nervous mouth. Apparently unconscious of this, Lily poured out a perfect flood of reminiscences for his delectation, and went on to recall eagerly every little message and reminder the lady of Hemlock Lodge had ever intended for her ungracious nephew's ear. "'There!" cried Mr. Campbell, suddenly looking up from the table where he had seated himself and fallen at work; "go about your business, both of you ; and, Lily, don't let Mr. Tracy go till you pin him down to an engagement. He is going directly home, he says, and your ways lie partly together. I'm going to be very busy for an hour or two, so be off together." His daughter took him at his word and rose instantly ; but the poor gentleman, so suddenly metamorphosed into the position of a gallant, looked pitiably ill at ease, and murmured, inarticulately, something about " pressing business." "Oh, yes," said Lily, gayly; "papa's business is always press- ing, so we'll have to excuse him if he is rude, and as we go along I must tell you of the old trees, on one of which your name was carved so long' ago." Down the steps and out into the street together they were forced to go, and Mr. George watched them from his office-win- dow, with keen-relish of the determined spirit of his daughter;   "LY CAMPBELL S BIT OF FUN.        309 "For I've an idea., if he were made to suit himself to others a little more than he does, he'd be none the worse for it,5' he thought to himself, as they passed out of sight. Meantime, Lily, filled with a sort of'absurd enthusiasm at the idea of gaining a ridiculous victory over 'an old man's whims, walked gayly by his side, and chatted so charmingly that poor Mr. Tracy was won, from the very newness of the sensation, to listen with awakening interest and pleasure. Such monosyllables as she could gain from him she seized delightedly, and exerted herself to follow the bent of his thoughts so earnestly as to surprise him out of himself. They had gone a block or two past the place where their roads should have separated, when all at once a splendid equipage dashed by them, from the window of which a lady looked, and recognizing them, called to her driver to stop. In a moment they came up with her, and, then she- leaned out and spoke pleas- antly to Lilyv. She was a very handsome woman, with singularly fine eyes, and so much that was elegant and magnificent in her dress and sur- roundings as to give her the air of a queen. In repose her face wore a trifle of severity in its beauty, that gave it a proud, cold air; but now, as she leant forward smiling, nothing could have been more tender or lovely than her whole expression. "Just a moment, please," she said to Lily. "I am glad to have seen you, because I am able to explain without going to your house; that aS Mr. Farron expects his daughter home, I am anxious to be there to meet her." i' Oh, pray don't say that Miss Farron's return will interfere with your engagement to us this evening, cried Lily, imploringly. "That would be too dreadful, when we have promised ourselves so much pleasure in securing you." "You are very kind, and I was only going to say that we should take the liberty of persuading Miss Farron to go with us." '"There, that will be delightful. I'll hurry home now and send a card; I'm so much obliged to you for being so amiable. Oh, I beg your pardon-allow me--my father's friend, Mr. Tracy, VMrs. Farron." -I     310      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. The quick way in which she turned suddenly, and drew her cornm panion into notice, so entirely disconcerted him that he bowed low without appearing to hear the name, and as the carriage rolled off he still stood like one in a dream, gazingr vacantly after it. "' I think-yes-that is, I feel-oh, it is like a dream. Who is that lady?" "A friend we made in Paris, and one whom I am sure you will admire as we do when you know her. Is she not elegant and queen-like? My father calls her the handsomest woman he has ever seen, but I think her grace and dignity are her great charms, and then she is so truly good and noble." "It is like a dream," repeated Mr. Tracy, passing his hand over his forehead, as if to dispel some strange illusion. "It is like some- thing painfully real, and yet illusive. I cannot understand it, yet it struck me the moment I looked at her." Lily stood still beside him, and seemed by her looks to share his astonishment. 'I do not understand," she said. "Are you speaking of Mrs. Farron?" "Farron," he repeated, sharply. "Is that her name-Farron? It scarcely seems possible that woman should be called Farron." "Certainly--Mrs. Ralph Farron: you must have known some- thing of her husband--the name has been familiar to me since I was a little girl." "Too much, too much," exclaimed he, bitterly, and the feeling awakened by the memory seemed to be greater than he could bear; he'turned about, and waving his hand by way of apology for his emotion, hurried off in a contrary direction, with his head bent, and his hat drawn low over his forehead. "There now," said Lily to herself in vexation, "I have missed a bit of good fun, and I'm angry. I meant to decoy that odd old soul home with me, and, persuading him in,' keep him for tea and during the evening, whether he would or not; but I had to go and overdo it-pshaw! I might have known it wouldn't do to intro- duce him. The recollections of such a queer monomaniac must be a series of sores and raws.7"   MSS FAARRONS AS A PrILANTHROPIST.      3" CHAPTER   XXXVIII. MSS FARR ON AS A PHLANTHROPIST, 'MRS. FARRON'S carriage. bore -her swiftly homeward after her meeting with Lily Campbell, and, alighting with all possible haste, she hurried up to her own chamber, where she secreted herself, even from her maid, for more than an hours although she had left orders to that young person to attend her immediately on her return. When, at length, she -admitted Aher to her presence, she remarked casually that she had been unfortunate enough to take a. headache during her drive, and that she would be glad to have as little dressing as possible under the circumstances. This headache had given a strangely excited look to her lady's eyes, and the ex- perienced maid mingled with her attentions many prescriptions of a curative nature, all of which iMrs. Farron received with unusual impatience-- "It is nothing-:it will be gone- in a few moments. There--I hear carriage wheels-it is"Miss Farron! Quick, give me the ribbon-I will tie it myself. There-my pin and handkerchief. I will go down now, and leave you to put out my evening dress- for I will go to }Miss Campbell's, however late it may be, when Miss Wharton goes." Her mother-in-law's expectations were justified. The carriage did indeed contain not only Miss Farron, but her attached friend, Miss Jane Wharton ; and both ladies, ascending the stairs to the drawing-room, were met in the doorway by Mr. and Mrs. Farron, with words and smiles of welcome. :Mrs. Farron had perhaps heard of her daunhter-in-law's reputed beauty, and the first glance she took at her changed face may have occasioned the sudden pallor of paified surprise that overspread her own. Julia, the once handsome and stately belle, had become prematurely aged and hardened. Her features could not change, and she was, therefore, still well-looking - but every line and linea- ment had fixed itself in dead repose, and neither change nor play     312    .  TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME, nor light nor shadow spoke of life or feeling beneath the marble- ized surface. Her voice was cold and metallic, like her face, and her manner staid and measured to correspond. But she was neither unkind nor uncivil, and returned the greetings offered her sensibly and satisfactorily, thou1gh without a particle of feel- ing. "You are looking very well, father," she remarked; "and I hope Mrs. Farron has begun to feel at home in her new sphere. I was so occupied with a press of duties, that I could merely transmit your directions to the business people, without being able to see them fully carried out. Jane and I have assumed a great responsibility in our new work, and are obliged to make all minor matters bend to it."' Although evidently deeply imbued with what she had assumed to be her mission, no trace of enthusiasm entered into its composi- tion. Determination, self-absorption, there was to any extent, but noth  ing akin to past emotion or kindly feeling of any sort. Miss Jane Wharton was a sister-spirit on another model-fussy, sugLgestive, and argumentative. She seemed less determined and more diffuse; but both acted in concert admirably, and, after the merest word or two of compliment in recognition of the new state of the host and hostess, entered into a comparison of notes and plans while waiting tea. "You are founding a new system of foster-homes for foundlings, I believe," said Mrs. Farron, with interest. "Does your plan im- prove much on that already in force?" "Immeasurably," answered Miss Farron, decidedly.  "l We mean to entirely do away with mistakes, and produce a perfect acting system. By the by, you have seen the institutions of Paris, no doubt, and may be of use to us in our reports." Thereupon she raised her handsome eyes, that in these days had but one hard business-like expression to their beauty, and for the first time steadily regarded her mother-in-law's face with something like interest. A look that was rather the dying out of all expression than the awakening of a new one, lay like a mist over her face for a moment whilst she seemed to turn her thoughts inward to some   MSS FARRON AS A PHLANTHROPIST.       313 far-buried depth of memory. Like a mist, it passed away, and her glance of inquiry succeeded it as she waited for a reply. "At the Madeleine, for instance," suggested Miss Wharton. "No one could fail to have found some food for new and improving thought at the Madeleine." "I never saw such an institution in Paris," confessed Mrs. Far- ron, slowly. "I am sorry my attention never was called in that direction, but it was not.) "Ahem," coughed Miss Wharton, slightly; "you are not singu- lar in that respect, Mrs. Farron. Strange as it may seem, human interests usually are the last interests with human beings." "If all were alike alive to public good, we would not be able to single out as benefactors those who sacrifice all selfish consicdera- tions in the cause,"' interposed Mr. Farron, coming to his wife's relief, and bowing towards his guest. "True, father," assented his daughter, "and Jane is really a de- voted worker, who brings rarely excellent abilities to the labor." Then Miss Wharton hastened to say something equally com- mendatory of 'her friend; and exchanging, flattery at regular inter- vals, they pursued their theme' steadily till tea-time. That one feeling, then, had outlived all the rest--a desire to receive an occa- sional impetus on their way in the form of adulation. It was a gratuitous self-devotion, but they needed to be told that the world was convinced of the same, and to be kept in mind of the gran- deur and magnitude of their self-imposed labor. Even in this yielding to nature there was nothing gentle or womanly, it was rather the craving of strange appetite than the assertion of a femi- nine weakness. Miss Farron discovered to her observant father's eye, before the first hour was over, the traces of illness, and on being questioned, admitted that their plans had suffered a delay from the annoying circumstance of a fever. "But Julia is really the most thorough heroine in such a case imaginable," said her friend. "She positively cannot be subdued by illness." "Yet I think she carries the marks of it very plainly," said Mr.      314      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. Farron, anxiously. "Ay dear girl, I beg you will defer this east era trip and nurse yourself back into perfect health. You are actually haggard.7" "Oh, no, that is not to be thought of. I am really doing admirably, and I have been taking medicine, too, that will restore my old strength in good time. The attack was a mere nothing, and did not interfere with our work for more than a day or two." "It happened oddly," said bMiss Wharton as Julia rose and crossed the room, evidently desirous of ending any conversation concerning her health. "We were staying in an old house that had once been a sort of crack hotel amongst gentlemen sportsmen, who made shootiug-parties in that part of the country. We were for- tunate enough to meet with an architect who had helped to plan St. Mary's Foundling, and were consulting with him about our own project, when Julia rose to point out a building we could see from the window, in explanation of a particular elevation she suggested. Her attack took the form of a sudden dizziness, and was quite alarming at first. To show you how utterly unprepared we were for it, I must tell you that she remarked in her usual tone--' This window is completely covered with names cut by diamonds. It must have been the gunners who used to stop here in the quail season, I suppose.7 Well, we naturally waited to hear her speak of the church she rose to look at, but instead of that she seemed steadily observing the glass, as it seemed to us, until she fell back- wards as stiffly as if she had been struck into stone." 3irs. Farron rose and glanced uneasily towards where the sub- ject of this discourse stood, her back towards them, looking ear- nestly at some drawings of ruined churches, brought by her father from Rome. By an uncontrollable impulse, the young mother-in- law moved towards her with compassionate eyes; but the devotee of benevolence turned and met them coldly, and coughing slightly and not without effort, joined the group she had left, saying, in a hard, deliberate tone- "It was not worth mentioning; Jane is over-thoughtful, and apt to give too much importance to her friend's feelings, to the neglect of her own."   MSS FARRON AS A PHLANTHROPIST.       315 She was rather whiter than she had been before, but that was all; and she renewed her favorite theme of public beneficence with increased interest, and talked away till tea-time on the same strain. It was not possible to persuade them to accompany Mr. and Mrs. Parron to the Campbells, neither would they hear of their remain- ing at home on their account. Miss Wharton had promised to stay with her friends while they were in the city, but she would ride over and see her mother and sisters and return before bedtime. Julia would retire early, in company with some reports of benevo- lent institutes she had just received ; and there was really no oppor- tunity for her to enjoy Mr. and Mrs. Farron's society, even if they persisted in sacrificing their own and their friend's pleasure by re- maining at home. So it was settled, and the carriage was ready at half-past eight, and so were they. Mrs. Farron was a somewhat elaborate dresser; that is, she gave time and attention to the art, and looked, when completely in any style, so perfectly faultless as to justify the study expended. She now descended the broad staircase leading to the lower hall in full panoply, and meeting her daughter-in-law at the foot, stood a moment in the flood of light that came from the open door of the reception parlor, where Claudine stood waiting with her hood and mantle. "Jane has just gone," said Julia. "I came down to give her a list of books and papers I want,-she has given so much time to collecting the best authorities on the subject on which we are mu- tually interested." "I beg you will allow  yourself to rest to-night," said Mrs. Farron, gently and earnestly ; " you have been working too hard." "No, no ; you do not understand," she replied, quickly. "It is necessary for me to do so ; that is, it is best that I should. I am very well, I assure you, very well indeed." She passed her, and had ascended a step or two, when the ar- rangement of some flowers in the head she overlooked caught her eye. "Those are beautiful," she said, pausing; "I like flowers, and those. remind me of something I have seen before-heart's-ease,     316      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. ivy-leaves, jasmin, and pomegranate blossoms-yes, they are beautiful, and seem to recall something I have seen before. There!  -it's gone now!-I hope you will have a happy evening. Good- night 1" CHAPTER XXXIX. FESTIVITY. IT was little wonder that the heart of poor Mrs. George Camp- bell sank within her at the thought of one of her daughters' little entertainments. They had an alarming way of growingc out of the first proposed dimensions into balls of the most imposing description. They were always thinking of just one person more, who positively must be asked; and the sequel proved that one person to stand possessed of half a dozen friends, whose claims on the family hos- pitality it would be equally impossible to overlook. Thus,. like the banyan-tree, the branches took root, and joined the parent stem till a perfect grove covered the ground. The original idea had been to ask up the Farrons, and an added friend or two; but that party arriving, found the parlors fully lighted and in a fair way to be crowded with guests. Mrs. George, in a dull lilac dress, with which a perverse fate always led her to set off her wishy-washy complexion, stood in a beyy of new arrivals, looking, as she felt, like some one astray, and only knowing one definite thought or wish, which was for her hus- band's presence. Her daughters were full of delight and enthu- siasm, and talked with an ease and volubility that made her poor head reel to think of. "And here comes that fearfully-at-ease woman, Mrs. Wharton," she thought, as the incarnation of calm, well-dressed, well-preserved loveliness floated towards her with her daughter at her side. Un- like her mother, Miss Alice looked as ill as it was possible for so pretty a person to appear. Her dress, which was elegant, did not become her; she was flushed and pale by turns, and bit her bouquet   -U'Nl5TV IT'X.         317 or pulled her handkerchief with childish impatience, whilst her mother repeated placid nothings with the air of meaning a great deal by them. ' Presently the cause of her annoyance appeared in the doorway- Mr. and Mrs. Farron, with Mr. Leland at the lady's side, talking eagerly, while she listened with a cold and half-averted face. "Ah, there are the Farrons!" said Mrs. Wharton, from whom poor Mrs. George hailed any new face as a deliverance. "I shall have to scold you for being so attractive, Mrs. Farron. Jane finds it impossible to tear herself away, and we have seen nothing of her yet." With a word of explanation about her daughter, and a greeting to her hostess, Mrs. Farron relapsed into silence, and seemed totally unconscious of Mr. Leland's presence at her side. Poor, silly Alice had given her a little nod-that was all; but the looks of trouble and almost entreaty that she cast upon her lover explained the cause instantly; and her mother had drawn her away under cover of seeing the young ladies, but not without a warning whisper and a look that-went to enforce it. Mr. Farron saw his wife's face; and looking no further, exerted himself to make her more at ease, without a glance towards the handsome bore by whom   she was distracted; for some reason of her own, she dreaded leaving the two alone together, and so kept her place at his side, though she followed Miss Wharton with troubled eyes, and glanced uneasily towards the door, as if hoping for some relief in that quarter. It came in the person of Mr. Campbell. "Go, speak to him," she said, quickly, to her husband, who in- stantly obeyed. Then, being left alone with Mr. Leland, she turned and faced him quickly, looking searchingly into his face as she spoke. "I should think you merely weak and foolish, Mr. Leland," she said, "if it were not for one thing. Every time youspeak to me in my husband's presence, you allude covertly to an incident that you have cunning enough to discover I mean to keep a secret from him. Is it meant as a threat, and why?" "Mrs. Farron, you surprise me; why should you. think me guilty?"     318      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "I do not think any thing about you ; I ask you, is it so?' Without directly answering, he glanced downwards at his hand- some feet, and bit his lips a little, but still he smiled withal. "It is scarcely fair to bring me to. confession," he said, softly, i and glancing up under the long lashes of his fine dark eyes. "I . have but one weapon of defence-it is you who are to blame when you drive me to using it.)" "Then you do mean to be a villain?" She asked this in a cool contemptuous way, looking at him from head to foot with eyes that weighed him like the scales of justice. He had an angry soul, and grew white to the lips under her gaze, but he smiled still, and said- "I am a devoted admirer of Mrs. Ralph Farron, and she is woman enough of the world to know what turns an admirer into an enemy, and not covet danger." "I am afraid of nothing, except the loss of my husband's es- teem. I will try hard to keep it, as I have it; if you follow me and torment me, I'll brave the worst and denounce you to him. Look at the girl you are making wretched, and now leave me ; I will not be spoken to by you again to-nigrht, I am easily made des- perate." Albert Leland, though a vain, unprincipled fellow, and no great headpiece withal, had yet a mixture of cunning in his recklessness that warned him when he had gone far enough, and that instinct came to his aid at present. He assumed an air of cheerful gayety, and under it said a few complimentary things abo ut the Misses Campbell and the company they had assembled, and sliding down- ward on that easy scale, bowed himself away, and joined his own party. The lady he had left turned her eyes after him as soon as he left her, and watching him single out the girl whose face confessed so palpably the ungovernable passion of her wounded heart, drew her breath quickly as she marked the meeting. Vainly Alice strove to remain unconscious of his presence, as he came and stood beside her. She trembled, and changed from burning red to white, then red again. He bent over her and spoke a word or two; whatever they were, they opened up her heart, and she raised her large eyes swimmingly and reproachfully towards him, yet full of   FESTIVITY.           319 tenderness as well. Another word or two, and she smiled and rose, and hung upon his arm fondly, while the lady who watched her bit her lips and turned and hurried out of the room. "Where are you going, Blanche?" It was her husband's voice that asked her. ' Into the dressing-roont for my handkerchief," she replied, and stopped for no more. The' dressing-room was empty, and she did not look: for her handkerchief, but ran directly up to a large mirror above the mantlepiece, and looked severely upon her own reflection there. Standing there she heard steps in the hall, and instantly began dragging out and a arranging the flowers in her hair. It was not a new arrival of guests, as she supposed, but no less a person than her host himself, accompanied by a quiet, respectable-looking man, who was a curious study to look at, being neither a workingulan nor a gentleman in dress, nor yet in manners. He was very unob- trusive in his way, and came so softly, following in Mr. George's wake, that that gentleman turned round to be sure that he was there; yet he was not a dull-lookin, man, but, on the contrary, had the brightest messengers of eyes that ever were set in so common- place a head. On entering he sent them running round the room like a flash, and they told him of Mrs. Farron's presence before Mr. George had made the discovery. "Oh, I beg pardon, Mrs. Farron ; I thought I left you in the parlors, and had no idea of finding any one here.' "I am goingr back again instantly--pray, don't stir-there, I lhave finished fastening' my flowers. You gentlemen are exempt from accidents like these, and should be grateful for your service- able, sensible costume." "These pretty fragilities give us so much to admire!" said Mr. George, bowing gallantly; but the quiet man looked over his slioulder at the elegant lady in a strangely fixed manner. She, too, seemed oddly nervous. She shook out the rich folds of her dress and adjusted her laces constantly as she spoke, and, bowing, hurried away, with a stem of- geranium falling over her beautiful shoulders, that she had pulled out of place herself.     320      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "That is Mrs. Farron, the wife of the gentleman whose adopted daughter was engaged to Mr. Tracy," remarked Mr. George's companion. "Exactly," said Mr. George-" married her abroad-splendid woman, and much admired in Paris." "About how long ago? She dresses so as to appear an older woman than she is. That lady isn't much over twenty." "Oh, you're at fault there, Mr. Fry, bright as you are! They've been married, let me see-why, bless my soul! I haven't the least idea how long they've been married; but it must be quite a while." "She's an American?" "Wrong again.  She was born in Paris, with American blood, most likely. Yes, I think my girls told me her mother was an American lady; but she's an orphan." "Of course," said Mr. Fry, and that was all he said; but he seemed to think silently for a minute or two. "Now, about this fellow," he began, in an entirely different tone-"I begin to doubt your little informer. She's sly-too sly to be taken at her first word.  I've had a watch for him for the last two days; but not a sign of such a figure could be seen. Now, I'm going to watch her."7 "Watch her?" "Yes, certainly; if she sees what no one else can see, she needs watching. She was the greatest mystery to me of all that affair  and, when the girl went missing, she threw Kennedy off the trace every time, because he believed in her-I never did." "Why, what object would such a girl have for using deceit?" asked Mr. George, looking about him in a sort of helpless dismay. "Faith, you fellows would teach a man to suspect his own family."  "Sometimes," remarked the other, dryly; " but as for this Jane Tod, I never could understand her, without knowing where she went. She isn't a plain speaker, you see, and must be looked up." "You've got that rascal Bob in your mind, Mr. Fry; and you suspect the poor soul on her brother's account."   FESTIVITY.           31 "Excuse me, Mr. Campbell, but that's your mistake. You could shake all that poor chap knew out of him by taking him by the collar; but the sister's made of more puzzling stuff, and needs different treatment; I want your permission to keep her in view for the next day or two ; and if you are going to discover any thing from what she says, I want to be present at your next inter- view."  "She wouldn't open her mouth before you." "Of course not-I wouldn't ask it; but I want to hear what she says, for all that." "What! do you ask me to set a spy upon her?" and Mr. George flushed scarlet. "You'll find out nothing, and had better give it up at once then," said the other, quietly. "Wait a bit. Oh, I can't think of it, to take advantage of a woman, and not a full-grown one at that. I couldn't do it if it was my life at stake."' "When do you look to see her next?" "She said she'd be in the office to-morrow, when I got down in the morning.." '"Well, well, if you can't consent I'll not press you further. I'm going over to Kennedy, who is on that beat. I'll give him the word to keep his eyes open and drop in upon you, when I have any thing to tell." "I'll look for you impatiently, for I do believe in that poor cripple of a girl, though you don't, and I know she means to serve me, if she can." fMr. Fry bowed respectfully, as if on second thought yielding to this opinion, and speaking his good-night in one part of the room, made a sudden move towards the door and opened it swiftly and noiselessly, and looked out. "Your friend Mrs. Farron hasn't gone in to join the company yet," he said, as if in. surprise. "Them flowers and things were too much for her; she's been in the hall fixing them all this time,. "*     322      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. CHAPTER     XL               AN ENCOUNTER. AFTER this little party at the Campbells Mrs. Farron took a strange fever, that made her look very ill, and kept her biinrding up her forehead in her own clamber, but which in speaking she made very light of, and as a general thing vowed it to "I be merely noth- ing at all." Still, she considered perfect rest to be the only restorative for such a disorder, and, locking her door, said she should answer nobody's summons for hours at a time. Bliss Farron and Miss :Vharton, after a day of packing up and arranging for their trip to the Eastern States, took wing together, and left the great house to her and her husband; but some busi- ness of a pressing nature took Mr. Farron suddenly to New York, and then his wife grew instantly well again, and prepared to go abroad as usual. One morning, as she was dressing to go out, a card was brought to her- "Mr. Siebert." He desired first to see Mr. Farron, but hearing of his absence, preferred a request to speak a moment with the lady of the house-only a moment," he said. The lady would see him at once; and he went up to the drawing-room, to find her in her walking-dress, but looking badly again, as if her recovery had been rather deceitful. She did not speak on seeing him, though her lips moved, but she sprang forward and caught his hand, and held it tight between her own, and, bending her head, wept over and caressed it. "My husband has been called away to New York," she said. "Yes, I saw him just before he went, and I came to tell you that there is trouble at home again-real trouble-though I can- not understand what it is. Miss Debby has sold all the pretty things her nieces brought her, and even tried to dispose of the fur cloak Mr. Campbell sent her the first year they were abroad."5   AN ENCOUNTER.           823 "I dreaded, or rather suspected, this. I heard something that has kept me wretched, but I cannot decide what to do." "6 I have been looking about me for a week past, and I can't dis- cover whether the trouble comes by letter or whether there is some one here." "I am afraid it is worse than that. I am afraid they are both here, and I live in dread." "And you reproach me in your soul, I know you do, for my share in the deception." "I do not reproach you. I reproach myself. I was only too ready to deceive. I have even tried to deceive myself." "' Can you not go away again?" "And be again followed: of what use is flight, when I cannot conceal myself. Do you know, I dread more the horrible cunning they show in striking at me through others, than I should the very worst they could do in throwing themselves in my husband's way." "No, no, you are giving them credit for deeper plans than -they lay they know the old road; they have harrowed and -tortured those two women for so many years, that ithey know the effect of every pang they give. With you they work in the dark, and are risking an uncertainty in every result." She shook her head slowly-"They are full of desperate slyness and fiendish devices. I live in terror, abject terror!". "That is folly, and unlike your old courage. Remember, one word of yours can end them, and they know it; and though you are accursed in keeping Silence, you have always the remedy of speech." "A bitter remedy." "Yes; but one that will cure. I have al ways prophesied it; and when I said you should not tell any if not all, that was what I meant." "I have been happy, very happy, at times. I have even felt se- cure and free from care; but then I have known the deepest and most poignant agony and dread. This is one of my seasons of misery. I am looking for some calamity too horrible to name, and every sound I hear warns me of it."     324      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "'You are nervous, and exaggerate every thing. Remember what I tell you--that daring these wretches destroys their power; and nothing can be so bad in reality as it appears to a disordered fancy.7" "What would you do?" "I would go out and stay in the open air for hours without thinking of any thing but what you see. Then I would come back and weigh both courses, and decide which leads to the least dread- ful climax." "Miss Debby is sick. I have been distressed to know it." "She is better now. She is stronger and better able to meet suchl trouble than her sister. I feel, no particular fear on her ac- counllt." "Poor Miss Debby I I could see only a ghost of her former life and spirit in her pale face and gray hair." "I'll go now, for I see you are about to take my advice; you'll find it is best-and I'll see you again shortly." "Good-by, and God bless you;" and again Mrs. Farron seized the artist's hand, and caressed it as if it were something very pre- cious to her. Presently she came down the stairs dressed in a walking-suit, and looking better than she had seemed for days. She took a brisk pace, and went off after an instant's pause in the direction of the nearest square or public park. Here she wandered about awhile, stopping and looking at groups of playing children, with an absent air, as if she did not see what her eyes were resting on; then, suddenly taking another thought, she came out into the gayest promenade, and met friendly faces and smiles and bows,' which she returned pleasantly, while she hurried on as if she had an object in view. Leaving the fashionable street, by and by, she went into another, duller and less frequented, and so onward till she reached a meaner portion of the town, where courts and alleys cut up the squares, and misery and squalor were only partly hidden from the eye.   AN EN CO UNTER.-         325 Here she walked slowly, as expecting some one to join her nor was she disappointed, for, after a turn or two, a shuffling figure, that had long kept her in view, approached, and sidling towards her with one leg dragging after him, said, in an ilnsinuating tone- "Sure it does such eyes as mine good to get a look at ye. Troth, I niver laid them on a purtier picture." She turned about quickly and faced him at the sound. "' Why didn't you come or send to me at once," she asked, (' in stead of going to work in this way?" "And what way is ityou mane, my swate lady? Sure, ye have only to look at me to know that there's been little work, or wages aither, coming in my way this many's the day." "Why did you go and terrify that poor woman? What did you promise me in Paris?"        i "Sure I disremimber the promise; and I niver said a word to Miss Debby till she up wid the hillabulloo, and went off in a fit- more shame for her being so wake-minded." "What did you want from her? What did vou go for?" "Is it what did I want, would you ax me, knowing as well as you do that I want jist nothing at all? It's him that has the wants, ye know."' "What did-what did you ask for?  You know what I mean- speak out!" "Well, my grand lady, it's not in your way to know what the likes of us must nade; but take a look at me, and ye'll see there's little we don't want. It's what we've got that would be aisier mintioned." "You know I don't believe a word you utter, but I want you to go away.  How much will take you?" "Where to?'7 he asked, briefly. "Anywhere ; the further off the better."' "And what would we do when we got there?  Faix, we tried that onst, and if it hadn't been for a lucky chance that give us a clue to ye, we'd have died wid starvation." "When I say take you, of course I mean keep you too. You     326      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.               have had enough to do that seven times over in seven years. You might have eaten gold instead of dirt-you've had plenty of it." "It doesn't stop wid him long, ye see," said the cripple, laugh- ing; "he's the boy for spinding whin he has luck, and starvitng whin he hasn't; but it don't become the likes of me to bring him to account, and don't mane to do it." The lady glanced up and down, and around about her, in a shrinking, terrified way. "Is he near?" she asked, in a trembling whisper. Her companion seemed amused at her emotion, and indulged himself in a short laugh before answering. "Well, thin, a body would think it was a raging lion ye were spaking of. Sure, he's as mild as new milk, and no more harm in him nor in a baby. It's his needcessities that's pressing and tor- menting; himself is jist as pleasant a crayture as iver was good company, wid a drop of something strong before him." "Say what you need, and let it be without reservation or altera- tion, for I am growing too wretched to fear any thing, and this bargain must be our last." "Och, now, is it cruel ye are? Sure I tuck ye for a better and swater timper nor that. Well, then, no hurry at all at all. Give us a little to kape along for a bit, and yell have time to make up yer mind about what more ye can spare." He stood still and took a glance at her costume as he spoke, and added, knowingly--"Ye shouldn't be so hard on uz whin it's so plinty wid you." They had been walking on briskly together, Mrs. Farron in the excite- ment of her feelings finding it impossible to loiter; but now she stood still, for they had reached a crossing where one of the public drives intersected the common street on which they were. "TI will see you once more, then," she said; "' and recollect, it must be for the last time-there, it is all I have-take it." She dropped some pieces of money in his outstretched hand, and turned to be gone, but he caught the folds of her dress in the other and held her while he spoke- "Make it enough to last awhile, and I'll go bail we'll not bother ye soon. He's getting waker and more aisy to manage, so I'll   KITTY'S ADVENTURES,          327 kape back a bit agin worse times, and we'll worry through; only make it enough, and I'll go bail we'll let ye be awhile." She shook him off and turned aiway, with an indistinct promise, when suddenly a sulky, with a pair of fine prancing horses drew in close at her side, and a familiar voice hailing her, made her start- "Mrs. Farron! is it possible? I thought for an instant I must be in a dream, till I saw your unique companion, and recalled our Paris adventure." It was Mr. Leland who addressed her, and she started as if from a sudden sting at the sound of his voice. For a second or two she returned no answer, and seemed in- clined to fly in one direction, while the lame man limped away in another; but another thought changed her plan, and she turned and met the smiling face of the handsome gallant, coldly and quietly. "Good-morniug, sir-I am in haste--you will excuse me," and so passed on. -                  But although. he bowed gracefully in reply to thisl dismissal, she knew that in his heart he determined t? be revenged on her for thus ignoring him and his claims, for, reining in his horses, he turned them round and pursued the halting figure that went limp- ing down the street, hugging the money she had given him in both hands. CHAPTER   XLI. KITTY S ADVENTURE S. KITTY DONAHUE'S equanimity was partially restored, for her mistress had so far recovered from her sudden illness as to have taken up her interrupted employment, and in her manner and daily life to resume her usual cheerfulness. Kitty was not without dread of a breaking down in this better state of things, but she limited her forebodings to shakings of her head and long-drawn sighs. There was one positive misery of which she was convinced, and     328      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. which weighed heavily on her heart. Poor Miss Debby had been forced to sell all that she could abstract from her possessions without attracting general attention to the loss; and had even gone so far as to dispose of her fur cloak, which she knew the family must re- mark when winter came. Some great need must have existed to render this course imn- perative, and poor Kitty too clearly guessed what that necessity was. She had taken her own earnings and savings and laid them before her mistress, without a word, but that poor lady had re- jected them in a passion of grief and grateful remorse, and im- plored her to keep out of the wretched business, and neither by word oi hint show her knowledge of its existence. Things were in this state when one night Phil Rooney dropped in to say that his mother was ailing, and would Kitty make her a loaf of seed-cake, and take it up, because "the old body had a fancy she would like one of her making." To this task she had 'faithfully given her mind, and with its accomplishment in view she had, according to her own words, "jist scowdered" up things in the kitchen, the better to devote herself to its making in perfection. About tea-time this triumph of Irish cookery was completed; and, wrapping it up in a tidy napkin, Kitty laid it aside until she should have rinsed the tea-things, which work being accomplished she put on her bonnet and shawl to carry it " the length of the Rooneys." Speaking a word or two to Miss Debby before her departure, that kind lady intrusted her with her regards to the family, and added: "It is little Phil's birthday to-morrow, Kitty, and I hoped to be abje to send him a keepsake for the sake of old times; but I have no time to go out shopping, and he'll have to take this little cap that I've put together out of my old velvet bonnet, and trimmed with bright plaid to set it off. You won't mention that I made it, will you, Kitty? It will seem more to them if they think it was bought purposely for the little fellow." "Troth, thin, they may be set up entirely wid it, bad luck to them if they're not. Sure, none of their name or gineration ever had the aiquil of it. It's fit for the best gintry in the land, so it is; and they may well feel proud of it, so they may."   KITTY'S ADVENTURES.         329 Not ceasing to admire and commend this bit of Miss Debby's generous workmanship, Kitty descended the front step and went out into the starlit street. Not far from the corner of her own square a man laid his hand on her shoulder, and turning, she beheld, with terrified eyes, the figure of Dick Lavaridge. "Och, heavens I mercy to my soul 1" she gasped faintly; "is it from the grave ye come?" "No, though it's there I might be for all ye'd do for me, Kitty, ye hard-hearted flintstone." "Are ye not feared of yer life to tread this ground, ye bould villain ye? Don't ye know there's them that'll never forget ye, and that'll watch for ye and waylay ye to yer ruin?" "No," laughed the man; "I'm not to be frightened by any thing short of want and hunger. I'm not one to be caught; I'm too old for that, Kitty." "The de'il's waited long for ye ; but don't trust him, he'll make a sudden grip at ye whin ye're least thinking. Och, it's you, is it, that's given poor Miss Debby the terrible turn she tuck, ye black villail that ye are?" "What's that in your bundle? Give over yer talk, and look in yer pockets for something better for me. All I get is for him, and I'm left meself widout enough to kape the life in me. Yer having aisy times, wid nothing to trouble ye, and ye can well afford to give a poor divil like me a lift." "I haven't a penny wid me, and but little to the fore, any way. Ye left us all bare enough whin ye went off as ye did." "Give me enough to take me, and I'll go off agin." ' Och, that iver I saw yer face, ye heart-brake that ye are!" "What good do ye look for to come of calling hard names, Kitty? I niver did a bad-deed on me own account; I was bred up to sarve him, and I'll do it, through thick or thin, while the life's left in me. Is it any more nor ye do yerself? Divil a ha'p'orth I only ye tuck to the childer and I fell in wid the father; and hard as ye think it, ye've had the aisiest time by far. I'm braking down at last, Kit-the dog's life I've led is killing me off     330      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.  before me time-and do ye know what I'm striving for? only to last out till he has no more nade of me to stand betune him and  the law." "Ye've sarved him too well, Iick, in lading him into all manner of evil, and niver crassing the word wid him whin ye might have kept him back."  "Could ye kape a fish alive out of water? or could ye stop the wind from blowing? His Maker is his judge: I'm his sarvint, and I'll be faithful to him, let what like come or go, till the ind." "A black ind, Dick, a black ind it will be!" and Kitty moaned, as she shook her troubled head. "What did ye get out of Miss Debby? I know she sold every thing she could lay hands on to sarve ye." "It wasn't much-nothing but a trifle that he made way wid, while ye would be talking aL;ut it, at the cards. Thim's the divil's traps for the money, and kapes uz beggars." "Don't give it to him, but kape it out of his way till ye're in nade of it." "Is it lie to him, Kitty? would ye even the like to me? Sure, I'd be as true to him as if it was me own soul, and well I may; if he tuck me desaiving him, he'd have me very life. Troth, he'd make small work of murdering me." "The Lord be good to me I I'm trimbling to hear ye  Go yer road now, and whin I can I'll give ye what I have; but I'll put a vow on ye not to let it go to sich black 'Works as thim." Apparently satisfied with this promise, Dick stayed for no fur- ther discourse, but shuffled away, after intimating his agreement to the compact in a series of solemn nods; and poor Kitty, much dis- turbed and distracted, pursued her way in haste. But it was to be a night of adventure to the troubled woman; for, before she had reached the street where she usually made a turn to go towards the Rooneys, she met a girl in respectable clothes, and of a decent, quiet manner, who begged her to stop a bit, for she had a word or two to say that was pressing. Some people are born to face emergencies, but Kitty's order of mind was not of that calm and well-balanced sort. She immediately fell into   KITTY'S ADVENTURES.         331 amazement, and stared at the person addressing her with a blank and frightened face. Her perturbation was almost equally shared by the other, as transpired in the trembling and embarrassed man- ner in which she essayed to speak, and frequently failed. I am a relation of a person-that is, a connection of mine, or one whom I am related to-has had business dealings with Miss Debby Le Roy and her sister long ago. He was unfortunate enough to involve them in. a failure of his, to the extent of a great loss, comparatively speaking, to them ; but they were too honora- ble' to make any mention of it to his injury, or demand any pay- ment he was unable to make. He has prospered since then, and is most anxious to make reparation, which I fear they would not ac- cept. He told me you were their faithful and devoted companion, who had gone with them through every thing, and sent me to you to see if you would not receive instalments of the debt, from time to time, and improve their condition without consulting them, or, in fact, letting any thing about the transaction be known." Kitty took in enough of the meaning of what was said to under- stand that it alluded to some financial advantage to her mistress, and only murmured in reply- "Ye spake of thim both, whin ye ought to know that one of thim is at rest in glory." "Miss' Norah-yes, I do remember. But let her share of the just debt be a monument-her grave has no stone to mark it." "True for ye; but that was her own will, sure, and she had her object in laving a charge written out about it. Heaven's grace be about her-no stain could come upon the ould name if it was cut and carved above her.' "Will you do me this great service, and be the receiver of the debt I spoke of?" "Och, Miss dear, how could I? Sure, I niver would have wit- enough to carry out a story; and Miss Debby would suspict me, and it would be no use at all." "Kitty Donahue, you underrate yourself when you say you can- not deceive. You never deceived them, I confess; but when it will save her from racking distress and mean worriment about the     332      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. daily need of her life, it is your duty to try; you have only lived to serve her-this is a better way than any other." Ye may be an impostor, a desaivint g limb of the evil one to lade me to sin. How do I know that ye're all right and true in what ye tell me?" "You believe in oaths, do you not? Well, I'll swear to you. Come in here in the shadow, out of the glare of that lamp, and I'll convince you that I am true, and mean no harm to any living soul." The seed-cake was cold, not to say slightly crushed and sodden, when it reached its destination at Mrs. Rooney's right hand that night. Nor were Kitty's excuses as satisfactory as they were elaborate on the subject. She had been stopped on the way by one acquaintance and another, about whom she could offer no par- ticular information; and Phil's conclusion, after she had left them, that Kitty was "some way all through-other," was the sensible summing up of her strangely flighty manner. But little Phil's hat was received with rapture as the " most beautifulest thing that ever they clapt eyes on;" and the young proprietor was brougllt up from the kitchen-settee, where he had fallen asleep after supper, and stood up, tumbled and rosy with slumber, to have it tried on. To be sure, he looked an unadorned and unattractive object under the plumes and velvet, with a wrathful sleepiness upon his damp, red face; but the family united in pronouncingr it "the becomingest thing that ever was seen," and -Kitty went away, not without some balm of satisfaction. Two causes united to produce this gleam of comfort above the waves of fear and foreboding that flowed to and fro like a tide in her troubled soul-the first was the proper spirit in which Miss IDbby's gift had been received ; the second was the visible fact of a small purse of gold added to her store, to be renewed monthly until an unknown debt was discharged, and to be secretly laid out il comforts and luxuries for her beloved Miss Debby. Of all blessed thoughts to Kitty, was the one that some power would pre-   'A MOMENT'S RESPITE.         333 serve the adored woman from want or trouble when she should be gone from the world, and the one privilege it offered of serving and being faithful to her. CHAPTER     XLII. A MOMENT S RESPITE. MB I FARRON came back from New York as suddenly as he had gone away, and to his astonishipent found his wife absent. She was in her own room, Claudine had supposed, but going to call her had found the supposition unfounded, for the chamber was empty, and the key left in the outside of the door, as if forgotten there. Something of alarm mingled with Mr. Farron's surprise, and throwing off his travelling-coat, he went into his wife's deserted room to look about him for any trace of where she might have meant to go. Nothing but her wrapper, thrown aside over the arm of her easy-chair, and a small trunk open at the end of the wardrobe, gave him any clue to her design. He seated himself, and taking a paper from his breast-pocket, looked over it again and again to wile away. time as he waited. It was a, letter, or some- thing in the form of a letter, and he continued reading it with bent brows as if earnestly weighing every word and deciding the merits of each sentence. Without any previous sound upon the staircase outside, the door was suddenly thrown open, whilst he was thus occupied, and his wife, entering hastily, threw herself into a chair, without looking towards him, and panted as one out of breath.  His wife-certainly, but not the lady of the mansion. She was dressed in such garments as he had never seen her wear before. Such as a girl of the workling-classes of Paris in holiday time would put on. She looked younger and smaller than in her own fine clothing, and the hat so altered her air that a stranger would have harldly recognized her. She was flurried and excited, and had been crying. Now she     334      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. bent forward, and burying her head between her hands, sighed deeply, and murmured to herself, "Oh, dear me I poor Kitty, poor dear Kitty!" "Blanche!" She actually sprang up, from terror and surprise, as the grave quiet tone of her husband's voice fell on her ear. He rose, acnd went towards her. "What is it, my darling? What does such masquerading mean?" "I didn't mean that you should know it. You are right to be angry with me, for I tried to deceive you." "I am not angry with you," he spoke kindly, but still seriously; "but you haven't told me what made you put these things upon you." "I wanted to see and speak to Kitty Donahue." "We must go away again, Blanche; you have fallen into trouble from coming back. You have not known a moment's peace or rest." "Oh, yes, you are mistaken ; to see them all again is a troubled joy that affects me, but does not give me real pain. Pray, forgive me this time. It was the only way I could speak to Kitty, and Kitty was once all in all to me." "One thing you must promise me, or we will have to go away again, as I have said. You must not allow these things to show upon you. That man, too--that fop who is letting himself be bought by that simple girl's fortune-why should he affect you? yet he did the other evening ; and he will, if he can find a weak point in your manners. Such small insects have a pernicious power of stinging where they find it will be felt; and if I did not fear that he had seen some folly or weakness of yours that he might prate about, I'd knock him down the first time I met him outside of four walls." "Not for the world-don't touch him for the world; he-he would demean you--he is not worthy your attention." "He is simply an idle, handsome, unscrupulous fellow, vain enough to attract attention in any way, and be proud of a foul notoriety. To be engaged to one woman and gossiped over about another, would be the height of his ambition."   THE DISCOURSE OF MR. FRY.        335 "Don't speak of him, pray don't speak of him-it distracts me to hear you name the creature." "There, then, let him go; but take off those odd things-they make me feel uncertain about you, Blanche." She rose and went into her dressing-room, while he raised the written paper he had been examining, held it before his eyes and perused it again once more, before replacing it in his breast-pocket. I a moment or two she returned in her rich robe de chambre, and coming up beside him knelt down and begged to be forgiven- "For I need to do this every day and hour of my life, my hus- band." "You humblg me in heart and spirit when you say so, my dar- ling; for, in my inmost soul, I know I 'am not worthy of your love."                   : "I am like a queen who is but a pretender, and who feels she wears a crown that may be torn at any moment from her brows, and she cast down into the estate from whence she rose.' She crossed her arms upon his knees, and laid her head down on them, "But I'm so happy here, that if it only lasts a day the glory is enough to brighten all future trouble; and nothing in the world can wound my soul while I feel I hold your love, my hus- band." CHAPTER    XLIII. THE DISCOURSE OF ]KMR. FRY. IN and about these days that respectable man, James Kennedy, led a busy life. His master, Mr. Richard Tracy, had wrought up in his own fantastic brain a queer story of wrong and mystery, in which so many were involved that a perfect whirl of characters, with unfathomably evil designs, revolved through his unsettled mind in wild confusion. His poor boy had died of violence, of that his l      536      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.             r aching heart felt sure; but of all the living creatures connected with the sorrowful time, his bitterest suspicions fell on poor absent Bob Tod, and to trace out his unknown path upon the high seas was his wearying and fruitless task. Mr. George Campbell had lived to rue his chance mention of the lad, from the pertinacious pursuit of the one idea he had thus planted in Mr. Tracy's mind. Every morning James Kennedy brought a fresh budget of surmises, suggestions, suspicions, and inquiries, to all of which the distracted 31r. George returned the one reply-that the boy never could have been guilty of complicity in so foul a deed--that he might possibly I have suspected in his weak brain that every odd-looking wretch J he saw was connected with an occurrence that had frightened the wits out of his empty noddle. As for his present whereabouts, Mr. George could only refer his inquirers to the providence that watched over such sparrows, and in conclusion he invariably im- plored him to give up such a fruitless and unfounded plan, and let the poor lad's good name be unstained until it deserved suspicion. Never did Mr. George for a moment allow his own distrust of the odd parties Jenny Tod had watched to transpire. Ir. William Fry, after his last report on the subject, on the night of Mr. Camp. bell's party, had not appeared with further evidence in-the matter, and Jenny herself had no more to tell; so the kind-hearted lawyer would have been at peace, had it not been for the thorn in the side that poor Mr, Tracy proved. James Kennedy looked upon his employer's vagaries as a comparatively healthful recreation, and assured Mr. George repeatedly that he was doing better on this 'track than he had seen him for years. "It keeps him going, and he gets the air in spite of himself, and that gives him an appetite and makes him sleep easy. I tell you, sir, them nights that he walks about like a howling ghost, wringing his hands and beating his breast, them nights was trying'."  "But, my friend," argued Mr. George, " are you sure that you don't sort of set him on to badger and distress others. Why, as I am a living man, Ive got to dread the sight of you." "Is that so?" asked James, in mild surprise; "well, I'm sorry, but you see, sir, it's my duty to do what I can to occupy his poor   mind; and I find you so very handy like, that I am afraid you may have some cause of complaint."  "Well now, then, look here; if you keep it up, I'll denounce you as the poisoner of his peace, and divert him for a while by hav- ing you laid by the heels, and brought to your just deserts. When I promised Mrs. Law to look him up, I meant to give him dinners, and mix punch for him, and provide good cigars, or the like; but, bless my soul, I never engaged to find him in soul-harrowing sus- picions, or entertain him with victims for revenge." James shook his head smilingly. "It's hard, sir, no doubt, but if you give people what they like, it seldom suits your own taste. Talking of that, he took another turn, owing to your daughter, Miss Campbell." "My daughter! What did she do?"  "She introduced him to a lady that sent him home nearly wild. He walked the floor all night, calling on a roman's name that he speaks sometimes when he's at his worst; and, by jingo, sir, I thought I was in for it, but in the morning he came round again, and cried like a baby over a picture he keeps in secret, and then he was all right." "One of my girls introduced him to a lady, Zdid you say?  Who could it have been, I wonder, and where could they have encoun- tered each other?"            i "It was a  French lady--the wife of Mr. Farron. I gathered that much from what he said in his worrying round." "What in the world did the girl do that for? didn't she know that Tracy and Farron have a bitter-old grudge against each other?" "Oh! they have; I  didn't know it, and thought it was some- thincg about the lady that started him off." i "There, James, give that to Mr. Tracy. I've tried to make as much a variety as possible in the expressions, but it's the same sort of a document as I've sent him a dozen times; and, in }Ieaven's name, take him off poor Bob Tod if. you can, for I feel as if I'd somehow tfaduced the poor lad, though Heaven knows I never had a  thought against him, beyond a desire to cuff him for his non- selse.'"                  !     338      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. , Mr. George thus dismissing 1Mr. Tracy's man, and feeIing some lingering botheration in his mind on the subject of his cousin's troubles, walked briskly to and fro across his office floor, with the determination to dismiss it. As he was taking these turns backward and forward, he suddenly faced Mr. William Fry, the policeman, who smiled affably, and hoped he saw Mr. Campbell well.  "About that little matter," he said, "you were right. There was a party, but not any one known to the force; a sort of strag- I gling figure that turned up, when my man, who was on the look-  t out, had no suspicion of him, and gave him the slip before he was X able to trace him out. , "When was it?" asked Mr. George, eagerly. "Two nights ago ; and there's been a keen lookout ever since, without a sign of a soul to be seen." "How do you account for it?" "Why, our man missed his chance and gave the other fellow the hint; that's about it."i "That proves plainly that the sneak, whoever he may be, knows he won't bear suspicion, and finds it safe to keep out of sight. By Jove! I'd give the best horse I ever saw to have him laid by the heels, and know for a certainty what, in the name of mystery, it is that keeps my poor cousin on the rack." Mr. Fry looked down at the carpet, whose pattern he traced with the toe of his boot. "'It would be a relief to find out what the rascal means-don't you think so?" asked Mr. George, provoked by his silence. "Why, that's as it may taran out," remarked Mr. Fry, slowly. "I never could calculate on what a man could tell till I heard him speak ; it may be that this chap had a hold on the lady, and knows what he's about. I should be inclined to think he did.') "A hold on her I What do you mean? Speak out plainer, in Hlceaven's name, for I don't follow you!" "Why, you see-I'm  only supposing a case, remember-you see, this fellow may have done the dirty work in some job where higher game was concerned ; this lady may have an interest in   i   THE DISCOURSE OF MR. FRY.         339 some of them, and that's the reason why he calls on her for money. Don't you see? it's money he goes after, and if she hadn't some reason for giving the money, she'd call some of the force and give him in charge as a nuisance." "By Jove! it seems likely!' cried Mr. George, ruffling up his hair all over his head in disagreeable excitement. "To be sure; you talk abominably reasonable, and it just about drives me wild to acknowledge it. You see, that dear, good woman always has puzzled me, but I never for a moment dreamed she was a riddle to be read at a police docket.  Good heavens, Fry I make this thing clearer, or take away the dreadful glimpse of light you have thrown on it, before I lose my wits." "Oh, Mr. Campbell i" said Mr. Fry, reproachfully, " you're not the kind of gentleman I'd expect to go off so about a neat little affair like this. But, for your own comfort, I'll let you into a bit of a secret. I believe, in my reckoning, that Miss Debby, the mil- liner-:excuse me, that's the way I've got her marked down, and the case is an old one to me-is nothing more than a partly know- ing witness of things she's been afraid to confess, and that her si- lence has put her in the power of the very people that ought to be afraid of her. There's half a dozen in it, as I sum it up, and she's the least necessary to my case, as it's laid out so far." " Lord bless my soul!" murmured Mr. George, faintly but rev- erently. It's a remarkable world, this, and I have fallen among some of its greatest curiosities lately." "That Tod girl that gave you the hint, is the one I'm most sus- picious of. I'll take her just as soon as I can trace out her con- nection with the lame man." "Is it a lame man? Do you mean to say the villain that fright- ened my  cousin is lame?  Heaven spare my senses-it may be Dick Lavaridge! Where's my hat? Mr. Fry, I'll go with you. Y. ou see, I have a pick of my own to settle with that blackguard, and to come up with him under any circumstances would be jov to me.  Faith, I  thought I had forgiven him and left him to his Maker's judgment; but I find a wonderful feeling rising in me to give him a taste of my owtn" I     340      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIMSI. "There's no scarcity of lame villains, sir ; some puts it on and some is born so. I should say a good villain was likelier to be lame than not; so this one mayn't be the one you think for.!' "No, I suppose not; but, after all, he may, you know, and I believe I'll look after him myself." Mr. Fry laughed. "You'd drop him a hint to cut by your looks, if he caught sight of you, sir. :No, no; you'll have to leave 'em to us--it's our business, and we do it regular. I expect to track him out this afternoon. There's some one sick that belongs to him, our men have discovered that; but he gives them the dodge as to where he lives, and throws them off sharp when they think they have him." Mr. George laid down the hat and cane he had seized excitedly, and sank back into a chair, regarding the imperturbable policeman with something like awe mingling with his astonishment. "I ought to be bolder to you," he said at length, after a deep- drawn sigh; "I was under the impression that some drunken im- postor was annoying my poor cousin because he knew her to be a timid and benevolent lady, and you are proving to me that I have sprung a mine that will explode some diabolical plot, of which my poor dear girl is one of the most involved criminals." "No, no ; Miss Debby, the milliner, is very low down on my list-only a witness when the case is completed. Here's the old gentleman." This last announcement alluded to the sudden appearance of Mr. Richard Tracy, who came in with a tremulous effort at self-control, biting his thin lips, and trying to smile pleasantly. "I have just dropped in on you, Mr. Campbell," he said, " to beg your kind forbearance. I know that I have trespassed on it sadly, but you are very considerate, very considerate." "Mr. Richard Tracy?" asked the policeman, looking at him full in the face. "Yes, certainly," he replied, apparently much startled by the question. "You don't happen to know me, sir ; but I have seen you be- fore. Your nephew, the young gent that was found dead at the milliners', was one of my cases."   THE DISCOURSE OF D1R. FRY.        341 "'In whllat way-how do you mean-explain yourself," demand- ed the old gentleman, with passionate eagerness. When he ceased speaking, and fixed his cgleaming eyes on the calm and unsympa- thetic face before him, his own became quite colorless, and wrought with a spasmodic twitching about -the-white lips in a way that was painful to see. "Whenever there's any thing incomplete in an affair of that kind we make out a case, and mark off the dropped links here and there, before we can pick them up again. Sometimes we fall on the right scent directly, and work out the whole thing beautiful; but then again it pnay take time, and you may never be able to make the whole story clear. Your nephew was one of these-there was a few quee'-1-looking threads in that evidence that didn't run smooth with the rest of the web. I've been lboking the whole thing over ever sine--that is, I never gave it up, though I couldn't see much hope of clearing it, even to my own mind, till lately." "' And you do see hope now? What is it? have you found the boy? Speak, man, and tell me-have you found the boy?" "Ioldc on, sir; you are a little too much flurried for your own good. What boy was you meaning?" "i Bob Tod-they oung demon that ed from justice, with all he knew of lthe black deed locked in his own evil heart." "Bob iTod!" repeated Mr. Fry, ar-d le lauglhed with keen en- joyment 'of the absurdity. "Why, that half-witted youngster never knew a syllable about the whole affair, beyond being fright- ened out 'of his precious life every timte he thought of it. No, sir, I ain't after Bob. I wouldn't call hi'm in if le was walking up the street; b6ecause I know all he knows, and it don't amount to nothing." Having his favorite theme of pursuit and distraction thus un- ceremoniously demolished, Mr. Tracy looked helplessly at the speaker, as one who had lost a hold without- which he must sink into despair. Mr. Fry stretched out a firmer support to replace the fouidationless one he had struck away- "There was money in the house that day; and somebody who know'd it, and was in the family secrets, did the job to get it.     342      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. They was disappointed; but there had been a search-that I saw-and there had been an effort to throw off suspicion. I say I know'd it; but I couldn't prove it, or the verdict would have been different, you know." Mr. George grew so alarmed watching the strange unnatural changes in his poor friend's face, that he raised his hand implor- ingly to beg Mr. Fry to say no more; but, seeing the action, Mr. Tracy interfered- "Don't stop him, I entreat you! don't stop him!" he cried; "I am living in his words-they lift me out of darkness and doubt and horror. When that terrible weight is raised off my soul, I shall die in peace." "Yes, yes-I see," said the policeman, reassuringly-" you had words with him, and parted in high dudgeon; so that it was gen- erally thought you drove him to do the deed by your aggravating and tormenting ways. But, bless you! he wasn't that kind-any one could see that, with half an eye, in his dead face. -No doubt you bothered him enough, and made him  wish you was in Abraham's bosom; but he never took that pistol in his hand on your account-never." "Oh, bless you! God bless you, whatever you are, or whoever you are, for that! Asleep or awake, that thought's been with me for seven years. Take it away entirely, and I'll begin to live again 1" "You know'd you didn't do it-wasn't that enough for you, sir? I'm going now; I have a call in five minutes from this time, and I'll have to look sharp to be there. I only tell you to cheer you and keep up your spirits a bit, that the whole thing is work- ing around about right-just about right." With this parting prediction, Mr. Fry left the office, and Mr. George and Mr. Tracy remained looking steadily in each other's faces. The elder man seemed to struggle with some new light that, in dawning, almost blinded him; but Mr. George, poor fellow, was fast losing his hold on any settled idea, and beginning to float away in a chaos of doubt and suspicion. "If it's any comfort to you to have company in your misery,   MASKED AND WARNED.          343 Mr. Tracy," he said, rubbing up his hahi irascibly on either side of his head, "I can assure you, sir, that I'm about as muddled and through-other, as the Irish say, as any human creature, that once knew what peace of mind meatt, could expect to be." "I believe it will be made plain at last," murmured the other; " it seems to come to me like a prophetic instinct. The cloud has been gathering so long, that in its folds are hidden the darkness of years of doubt and disappointment; they will all roll away together, and I shall be in the ligLt of day once more before I die." I CHAPTER XLIV. MASKED AND WARNED. MRS. WHARTON's compliments in their card-board form lay on Mrs. Farron's table. Sh6 was busy sewing some plain work, but she glauced at it from time to time, and seemed to grow more an- noyed and perplexed at every look. Her husband was looking over the papers of the, morning, for they had but just breakfasted, and seeing her so occupied, paused in skimming ep and down the columns to ask-- Does any thing displease you, Blanche?" She laid the card before him, without speaking, and watched his face. You do'ft care to go, it would seem; yet they are very pleas- ant people, and are bent on being civil to you.." She bit her lips and remained silent a moment, then she said briefly-"I dislike to meet Mr. Leland." "I think it odd and out of character in you to give that fellow the importance of so much objection. Nobody could like such a jackanapes, but few would think hi  worth a serious aver- sion." I do." Mr. Farron looked over at his wife ith silent surprise. She     344      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. kept her eyes upon her work, and gave no explanation of her avowed disfavor; but that night she appeared before him, clad in unusual splendor, and looking so grand and beautiful that he was fain to exclaim against so much margnificence. "You are bent on entirely subjugating that recreant lover of your friend's, Blanche," he said; "you should know him well enough to see that his absurd devotion is due to your dress and style, and that he would forsake you if a newer and more radiant star appeared in his heaven of fashion any night in the year." But Mrs. Farron only laughed, and turned round slowly, as if on exhibition before her lord's admiring eyes. "You said I was growing dull and mopish, you know, so I have gotten myself up like a butterfly, to convince you that I can be as vain and frivolous as you could desire." And that really appeared to be her object, for a gayer and more enchantingly merry woman never made herself the life and ruler of a ball than Mrs. Farron proved herself at Mrs. Wharton's. The wedding was to be a morning one, a splendid church procession to be followed by a quiet breakfast and the bridal party's departure on an autumn tour. So this grand assemblage was an assertion of the coming event, and entirely in honor of Mr. Leland and Mrs. Leland, that was to be. Miss Jane Wharton had come back to be present, so had her in- separable friend, Miss Farron, who on this occasion stayed with the Wharton family, to prevent the interruption of tleir important pursuits by the idle frivolities of fashion. Mrs. Leonard, a mag- nificently dressed woman, with a dull, dissatisfied face, and the air of having a constant provocation of some kind on her mind, stood at her mother's right hand, and said what she couldn't help saying, with a protest in every tone against so great an effort., Her hus- band, who had given up the struggle to appear young, and de- voted himself of late years to high living and selfish indulgence, was fat, purple-faced, and husky-voiced, and finding no further need for affected gallantry, had abandoned the style and adopted a prl- sumptory dogmatism instead, that seemed much more natural if not so winning. Mr. Campbell and his two handsome daughters were engaging this amiable gentleman's attention when Mr. and   MASKED AND WARNED.           345 Mrs. Farron were announced. He was unusually agreeable to his party. The father he considered a rather remarkable man in the way of eloquence as a lawyer, and ft ll of an Irish wit that was sure to tell in any case he undertook. The girls were pretty girls, and if he hadn't retired firom the field himself, he'd have taken the trouble to fascinate them, being quite the style he used to affect; but Mr. and Mrs. Farron were more important still, and he had no objection to making any one give place to the splendid woman who came sweeping in with imperial grace, and shed a lustre about her from her radiant beauty as she moved. "By gad, Mrs. Farron, we are honored I Mrs. Wharton had heard that you were an invalid, and scarcely dared to hope for your presence. She'll be delighted. Ah I there's Leland; and, by Jove! he's delighted too." With a smile for each of the girls, and a bow for their father, Mrs. Farron dismissed this elegant welcome with a mere motion of her handsome head, as she passed on to greet her hostess. That lady was all smiles and congratulations. She had heard of Mrs. Far- ron's indisposition, and was in despair; so were Albert and Alice. It would have been so unpropitious to have them disappointed. She was fortunate enough to have all her girls about her to-night, quite a rarity in these days, when J&ne could scarcely be wooed away from duty for an instant's pleasure. Ah I it was admirable, that style of self-devotion, and Jane could find no more earnest ap- preciation than her mothers, though she confessed that she feared herself unequal to following in the sam3 path. Mrs. Farron was gay enough to have never known the meaning of pain ;she waved off the suspicion of former illness with her white-gloved hand, and avowed herself determined on enjoyment. "What pretty faces! Where did you gather such a galaxy of beauty? Miss Rose Campbell is positively beautiful-and who is that sweet girl with the dark eyes and auburn curls beside her?" "Oh! that is another of Alice's bridesmaids-a younger sister of Miss Dolbert's. She is handsome, I think. She stands near Alice now, with, oak leaves in her hair. Ahl she sees you at last -poor Alice is not quick in these things, and I really am obliged 15*     346      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. to catch her eye at times. There!-she is comnig--so is Al, bert2. But Mrs. Farron knew that Miss Wharton had seen her from the first, and had actually thrown herself between her and her. lover as he came hastening to greet her when he caught sight of her, as she paused at Colonel Leonard's side. They had been speaking in whispers, she with her hands clasped over his arm, and her entreating eyes raised to his face. Now his gathered brows tnbent, and they came up together, not exactly free from the em- barrassment of the little scene they had had ; but he, with a strong effort to conceal his portion of it by smiling and bowing, and she, a trifle flushed, but with a forced graciousness of manner, with which she strove to cover hers. "You were so kind to come," he said, with an earnest gratitude of tone that was absurd in suchl a connection. "We feared you might not be able to make the effort," she added, with less enthusiasm. "You are very good to trouble yourself at all about it," an- swered the lady, gayly; "and I'm very well, and going to dance every time I'm asked, in proof of my boast." Instantly the ardent hand of Mr. Leland stretched forward to take hers, and the eagerness of his request made it almost uninitelli- gible. Without glancing either at her husband or Miss Alice WIharton, she accepted his arm and walked away, while the mu- sicians, behind a grove of exotics on the stairway, began to sound the preliminary notes of a quadrille. Mrs. Farron danced and danced as she had said, and never once looked about her to see what her husband might be doing, in what she knew was a vapid scene to him. She strove, indeed, to escape from Mr. Leland after the first dance; and when he presented him- self again later in the evening, making his way through the circle that surrounded her, and claiming her promise for a waltz, that she had never thought of, she did make an irresolute pause, and seemed to resist the persistence of his persecution: but it was only for an instant, for the next she smiled and gave him her hand, making him drunk with delighted vanity, and his poor, little bride   MASKED AND WARNED.           347 sick at soul with jealous misery. Still she laughed and talked with a mad sort of brilliance, as if perfectly unconscious of any'thing but joy, and whirled about or promenaded, always surrounded by the bevy of delighted worshippers, to whom she was entirely gracious for the first time inisociety. But suddenly she lost her reckless mood, and sickened wearily of all around her. She was still talk- ing merrily, when her heart failed her, and she seemed smitten with a shuddering chill. "It is becoming cold," she said, quickly; "I'll go and find a scarf to put around me." A. half-dozen gallant voices prayed to be allowed to do the ser- vice, but her graciousness was gone. -She said, "No, thank you," coldly, and went away by herself, and none dared to follow and protest. "Oh, I'm sick!" she cried, inwardly. 'I thought the fire I kindled would keep me warm, and I could laugh away the time unquestioning till I saw Mr. Siebert again; but I'm sick, sick, sick." She did not seek her husband, but went and found a wrappier in the dressing-room; and stealing back, took up her place in a re- cess under the shadow of a curtain, whe-e she shook and shuddered, still weakened by the chill that seemed to have struck her to the heart. An1 elderly man was in an easy-chair in front of her, and he said, turning to a gentleman at his si'de- "Yes  I remember him five-and-twenty years ago, young as he looks.'  ," Ha! ha!" laughed the other, "I'm happy to say I can't go back with you quite so far, Mr. Dolbert; you see, I haven't met him often, for in my time, I believe, he was rather out of society." "I'll tell you how I remember it so well: there was a party of Ius went u p the Hudson together, and he was a sort of leader, for I think he had more spirit than any young lad I ever knew. There was Tracy the elder, who married that beautiful girl, Milly Lane, and Richa rd Tracy, and Ralph Farron, and an elegant man that was the life of the party, though he was older than the rest, a, good bit too; bilt he carried on such games, and made such fun, that we     348      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. all felt at ease'with him. Let me see, what was his name? Pshaw! what is the matter with me that I can't recall it? Hle was an Irish- man, and had been an officer in India; and he told such stories about his life, then, that he kept-us all in roars of laughter." "Why, what became of the fellow? He was a capital one to know, and I shouldn't have thought you'd be ready to lose sight of himn." "Well, there was a little difficulty before the party broke up, on the subject of play. Cards were his weakness, I believe; and Farron said he did not play like a gentleman, which made trouble, Ralph was a lad then in comparison to the stranger, who had an air and man- ner that sort of took with us, and we turned against the boys in his favor. Well, there was a row, as you may suppose, and it broke up the party. What was his name?-let me see. Why, Dick Tracy could tell, if one ever could see him, for he took sides with him against Farron, and I heard afterwards that they were inseparable friends."1 The listener to this reminiscence here arose, and, yawning slight- ly, remarked that " old Tracy was becrazied, and had been ever since he'd known him." The speaker was Colonel Leonard ; and he added, "By the way, I saw the old fellow to-day looking queerer than ever, and walking up and down before that old house of the milliner's, where his nephew died, like a demented sentinel. He's queer enough to need to be looked after, to my thinking." Mr. Dolbert being left alone, as the colonel walked away, shook his head and sighed deeply. He was a mild, pleasant-faced man, and that and the sigh touched the heart of the lady, who had been listening more intently than the man he addressed. She rose too, and followed him as he walked away, keeping him in view till her husband saw her and came to her side. He was looking weary and ill at ease, and said it was late-did she want to go? No; she meant to stay still later, and was surprised that he found it so dull. "It is more than dull-it is unbearable,' he answered. "Julia has not seen you to-night ; why do you avoid her?" "I had forgotten she was here. I'll go and see her now. Stay   MASKED AND WARNED.           349 a while later, please; I have a great desire -to stay another hour." M Air. Fairon shrugged his shoulders- "It is r ot that you enjoy it, Blanche," he said. "I can see that it is wearying you to death; but you have begun the night in a riddle, and shall read me the answer at your own pleas- ure." She did not stay to tell it then, but hurried off at his first word that sounded like assent, and joined hen step-daughter, who, with Miss Jane Wharton, were making little memoranda on their fans as writing-desks, and consulting each other as to the correctness of the entries. "Did I understand him to say North Weldon was the place where they were building?" asked Julia. "Ah, yes ; Mrs. Farron was saying to papa that I had not yet had the pleasure of speaking to you. You'll excuse the remissness, when we tell you that we've been fortunate enough to meet a gentleman who is largely engaged in just such an undertaking as ours, who has been able to put into execution in North Weldon the very same plan that we are en- deavoring to bring to work here. Jane, did he say the architect was inl Boston still? Pray, excuse me one/ moment. We have so many steps to go over, it is absolutely necessary that we have them all as correct as possible, to save time." Then Mr. Leland, who had been watching for Mrs. Farron since he had remarked her disappearance, suddenly discovered and claimed her for a dance, to which she objected, on the ground of weariness; for, she said, she had whirled about till she was too stupid to think. She had dropped into a chair near Miss Farron, and that young lady now rose, as did her friend, still consulting together, and ap- parently unconscious of the presence of any one else. Their pur- pose was to join their newly discovered friend from North Weldon, and be by him set right on some point, about which appeared to exist a doubt in their joint minds. Thus left to herself, Mrs. Farron spread her fan and looked narrowly at the scenes thereon depicted, of ladies and gallants in     350      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. court-dresses and powdered bleads. Mr. Lelanld dropped into the seat at her side, and remained quietly watchinr her abstraction with a pleasant air of banter. She would not look up to acknowl- edgre his regard, so he was forced to speak- "Your friend, to be so great a traveller, chooses mean accom- modations," he said; his voice was low, almost to whispering, and his cyes held hers when she glanced quickly upwards, and asked, in their keen, sharp way, how far his words disturbed ler. She gave no answer, but dropped them again upon the pict ure s of her fan. "A wretched street, and more wretched lodgings," he went on--" it would seem a hiding-place rather than a home. He is indiscreet, or he would live better on the gold you give hi." Still not a word. Mr. Leland drew a little nearer, abd said, still more softly--"But, perhaps, it may be his companion; he is very devoted to his companion, and it may be an expensive devo- tion-some attachments are, you know."  Now she started, and half-consciously clutched at his hand as if to entreat his silence, while her very lips grew white with fear. He had hardly counted on touching so strong a chord, and seemed too astonished at the effect of his words to take advantage of it. She gasped quickly once or twice, and then recovered herself par- tially; at last, her voice was natural when she spoke, and though she remained paler than she had been, yet the deadly whiteness had left her face, that, for an instant, made it ghastly. i "What do you know of that person?" she asked, and looked at him with eyes that demanded the truth. "I have no knowledge of art or double-dealing; and I confess to you that I ardently de- sire to know all you can tell me about him.3 "Mrs. Farron, you are strangely defiant and bitter. How dare I feel myself your friend when you resent an offered service?" "I neither like nor trust you, Mr. Leland. Your motive is so contemptible that it makes you cowardly in my sight; but I am at your mercy when you speak of-of that man ; and you can use the knowledge as you will." "' I will only use it to your pleasure and advantalge. Let me be your friend, and you will find me trusty. Can you blame me,   M3ASKED AND WARNED.          351 when I see myself scoffed and slighted, if I seize the only weapon of defence I have against your killing coldness?" 6"There is no truth or right in what you say. I am not in the position you would give me. There is, or can be, no real friend- ship between people with such opposite natures as ours ; but you can be true to yourself, and free from meanness and deceit, and I will bless you if you are. I am at your mercy thus far, that I do not wish the existence of those people known or even guessed at, much less my knowledge of them betrayed. Spare me this, and in so much I am indebted to you." "I will do any thing, say any thing, cr be any thing at your wish or will; only, do not look at me with those cold, unbelieving eyes, or you will drive me desperate." "You are bent on being false and foolish. What are my eyes to you? and what, in Heaven's name, have I to do with your nature? All I entreat is, that you will-let my secret be a secret, and do not persecute me because you have the power." "I would be your slave, if you would accept my service. Your coldness and disdain are too much for my fealty; and if you speak to me as if I were a traitor, you will make me one." "Then I am to understand that you will use your power against me?" "No, no I I will do nothing that gives you an instant's pain." She sighed deeply and seemed to feel her strength return, for her color came again-this time a deep, unusual red. "I must accept this and rely on you, bitter as this alternative is to me." She paused, and perhaps feeling/ that this was only pro- voking his anger, controlled herself to add--"When I rebel against this submission, remember it is because I feel how compro- mised I am in holding this connection wi;h one in your position, and because I must chafe over the slavery this secret reduces me to endure.' "Albert 19 The name, uttered in a voice of agonized appeal, put the look of lurking triumph to flight that his face was about to assume, and     352      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. made it a blank with a faint dawn of agony waking it to life, as he turned it on the speaker. Alice Wharton stood behind the woman she thought her rival, and, regardless of observation, let her convulsed face and tears of agony tell the story of her heart. More alive to the opinion of the world, her r lover spran up, and drawing her arm through his, led her quickly away, leaving Mrs. Farron still tracing the pictures on her fan. The court ladies, in their voluminous trains, became threatening figures in the eyes that held them in a vacant gaze. The courtiers, smiling over their cocked hats, seemed full of sinister meaning in their graces, and all the room darkened aroind her to the color of her own gloomy thoughts. Gentlemen cat e and sat beside her, and tried to say again the pretty nothings she had lis- tened graciously to an hour or two before, but she was vleary unto death and would not hear them patiently now. "Oh! is it not midnight yet?" she asked of some 4ne. "It surely must be midnight." "It is just twelve, and they are going down to supper.' She rose and looked eagerly around her. Mrs. Wh rton was talking in a hurried way to her daughter Jane, and apparently urging her to do some duty to which that lady seemed rather averse. People were formed in groups and couples andi strolling downwards to the supper-rooms. Mrs. Wharton, seeing lier, came towards the party by which she was surrounded, and whispered in her softest tone- "Poor Alice has had one of those dreadful attacks of hers. The dear child has no self-control, and the idea of this leing her last appearance in society as Alice Wharton has overcome her. She is to be pitied, for her heart runs away with her poor head so often." Mrs. Farron felt a deadly sickness stealing over her, but she asked quietly, and with no show of emotion- "Is she very ill, or was it only a slight attack of faintness? One could account for that, you know, by the heat of the rooms, or the motion of dancing." "Oh dear, no! she was taken quite badly, almost a spasm, in   MASKED AND W    RNED.        353 fact. I've been giving Jane directions about her-she is so effi- cieit in these cases.; and we'll not mention it at all to our friends, hoping she will soon be herself again." "Yes, thank you-I do not know where my husband is." This Mrs. Farron said in answer to a gentleman's offered arm, and with a few more words of symp thy for Miss Wharton, she passed down to supper. In the hall, as she went by, a man was standing bolt upright, examining the p tterns of the frescoes over- head no doubt. When she passed him he brought his eyes down- ward, just for an instant, and let them est on her. She dropped her scarf off the arm that was nearest im, and he stepped forward and raised it and replaced it with nicety around her shoulder. As he did this, no one but themselves knex that he said in her ear- "I have a message for you;" and that she answered, "I will see you here within half an hour." She went on into the supper-room, a d there was placed like the centre camellia in a bouquet of belles aro nd whom admirers fluttered in substantial homage, offering delicacies and choice wines in tiny goblets. She took whatever was givel her, and talked without knowing about what, till a chance she was longing for gave her an opportunity of escape. Miss Jane Wherton appeared in the door- way, and by a sign attracted her attent on. "Excuse me--it is only for a momenl ," she said, smiling. I'm commissioned by Julia to beg you not to forget forwarding that little package she has sent to Bellingham Square, to its proper direction. She says that Butler always does those things so well she preferred having him take it, and begs you will see it done, as it has important papers necessary to the architect's estimate, etc."2 "Certainly; I will see that there is no failure or delay," answered Mrs. Farron. She had cone out of the circle of guests to say this much, and now she went towards the dcor, as if it were necessary to see it done at once. "Pray, don't let me feel that I have interrupted you," begged Miss Wharton.  "Julia and I are sitting beside my sister Alice, who finds so much company and excite lent rather more than she     354      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME, is equal to just now. Mamnma is particularly anxious that no one shall notice her absence, so she and Netty are being very busy, of course. Pray, don't allow m y suggestions onl Julia's account to take you away from supper.' "No, certaillly not," protested the other, still accompanying her alongc the hall, "but I shall never be able to gain Mr. Farron's attention if I don't demand it by leaviing in this way, He is so absorbed in the beauty of that lovely girl, Miss Dolbert; and I can- not wonder-she is absolutely radiant." "Yvu think so?" cried AMiss Jane with a tinge of skepticism. "Rather vapid beauty, I'm sure you must say after a moment's' close observation--mere butterfly brightness, without intellect or mental brilliance of any kind." In the hall the same quiet man was standing. as he had stood before, cognizant of every thing,' yet seeming only conscious of the ornamentall work on the opposite wall. He slapped one of his bands with a long folded paper that he leld ia the otherl as the iadies drew near, and AMiss Wharton said explanatorily- "Some one waiting for Mr. Campbell, I suppose; lhe always has a man with a paper looking him up everywhere, like an evil spirit waiting to demand the worth of his bond or contract. "hose lawyers are so beset when they are popular." Mrs. Farron answered absently, and recalling herself, reassured Miss Wharton as to the safety of Julia's charge to Butler, and said she should sit in the parlors and write a little note on her tablet to MAr. Farron.  Left alone, she threw herself upon a couch near the door, and watched the lady's figure out of sight up the stairway; then she took a bit of paper from her bosom and spread it oat on her knee elaborately, so that the man waiting in the hall could not choose but observe her action. It held these words: "Mrs. Farron-there will be a man called William    F/ry in Mrs. Wharton's hall at midnight, who will tell you how you can help one who is and always will be your friend and servant-Jenny Tod." The man came and stood close at her shoulder befoie she had ceased smoothing out the folds.   MASKED AND WARNED.          35 "That's me," he said, briefly. She looked up quietlyL but with a flitting color, and answered- '"res, and I am waiting to hear what you wish to tell me." "Why, you see, ma'am," he said, slowly, fixincg her with his eyes as he spoke, "poor Jenny's in trouble; she's been tryinwg to help that fellow that she says you understand about. He's too much for so short a purse, and slihe's sort of run distracted by him." lMrs. Farron's paling face grew scarlet with a sudden flush--she rolled the scrap of writing into a pellet with a quick, fierce action, and thrust it into her breast again. "Poor little girl," she murmured passionately, "it is too terri- ble that she should be a victim too." "So, if you'll be good enough to say where she may see you, she'll be glad to tell you how you can make things easier for them all." Mrs. Farron stopped in her thought and in her action, her face no longer wrought with resentful shame and pity; and her hands, that were clasping and unclasping nervously, lay still in-her lap. Her eyes, full and large and searching, reac his .face. "Jenny Tod did not send you to me-it 's a trap. I see it now. There is a plot afoot, and you are my enemy." She rose and met his eye without fear, but with a. face that had no hope or trust in any thing before it. The man was surprised and awkward. - "He wasn't used to fine ladies, you see, and must have made a mistake. Jenny just gave him a message; that was all, and he was rather blundering maybe." "There is no power on earth that could drive Jenny Tod to be- tray a  secret--how you came by your knowledge, you only know. I  do not believe you mean either of us well.' "I   don't see what I've to say to you," said 1Mr. Fry, with an appearance of much perplexity. "Not being quite equal to making, myself plain, it seems-" "Go now.  I  take this as a warning, and shall be prepared for the. worst." The man stood irresolute and looked confised.     356      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "You don't give me any kind of reply to Jenny, and I don't know as I can remember all this to tell her. She would have come herself to see you, but they've had sickness at the house, which keeps her ill. I wish she'd come thoungh, for I don't seem to get alonog in her place." She waved her hatnd impatiently and turned away. - "You are acting, and I see it all," she said, and walked the fall leno-th of the drawing-room towards the door, where a few of the guests were returning from supper. Her husband was among them, so she took his arm, and said- "I'm ready to go home, at last." "I am heartily glad to hear it, for, of all stupid nights done up in tinsel, this has been the stupidest." He looked down at her as he spoke, and stood still a second for another glance. "Why, you're looking very ill, Blanche, and I had almost said I'm happy to see it, since that explains your conduct to me. It was like a dream to me all night, that you had looked and -spoken as you did." "I want to go home," she urged; so, waiting for no further par- ley, he hurried her through the crowd of gathering faces up the staircase to the dressing-room, from whence she emerged shawled and hooded in a moment or two. "I have been making your parting compliments to Mrs. Whar- tonl." Mr. Farron said this as his wife took his arm in the hall below. "I told her you had caught a sympathetic headache with Miss Alice, and begged she would excuse you." "I should never have thought of her--you were very good." The same nman stood against the wall as she passed by, and made himself flat upon its surface in his humble wish to be out of the way. The lady shuddered, as if with cold. "Draw your shawl about you, Blanche ; it has been raining a little," her husband said. "That is Fry, the policeman ; and, by the by, he came to me to-day to ask me about an American family in Paris, that were living there ten years ago, and whose name, he thouhllt, might be familiar to you. I told him that you were not in Paris then-that you were educated in a convent, and brouglht   ON THE FERRY-BOAT.  there only the year before our marriage, tie apologized   for troubling me, and said the information being important was his only excuse for the liberty, etc." Here the carriage-door closed on them ; and Mr. Farron, seeing that she was comfortably covered with her wrappings, left her to silence and the carriage-cushions till they reached Bellingham Square. CHAPTER   XLL.4, O N THE FERRY-BOAT. EARLY next morning, Julius brought his mistress a letter. It was a miserably directed and ill-contrived-looking affair; but, at the first glance, she seized it eagerly from his hand, and then severed her impatience by elaborate directions concerning the parcel he was to carry to the Christian Union Society's office, for AMiss Farron. As soon as the door closed upon him, she repro- duced and tore open the missive, and read the little it contained over and over again, with a troubled face. It ran thus: "I've got him up agin; he was very bad whin I saw you. N!ow, he thinks he can travel; but it won't be far, for his strength is gone. Whin any thing happens to him, you nade fear no more. Give him enough to carry him through  aisy. I will be on the ferry- boat that laves the Grove-street wharf, this morning, at twelve o'clock; if ye want to make it aisy for us all, be there, too." After sitti sisilently reading and re-reading these words, for so long that their-meaning must have become stereotyped in her brain, Mrs. Farron rose quickly, and dressed herself to go to breakfast, as if entirely forgetting the message she had sent by her maid, half an hour before; that her head ached too much to admit of her rising. Then she put a quiet 'ook upon her face, and viewed it in her mirror. It would not hide her-hollow eyes, nor the colorless dulness of her cheeks-but that was the headache, she said to herself. So she went down and met her husband, who     358      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. was kind, but full of pre-occupation about some business of his own. "I shall be obliged to go away again for a day or two, I think, Blanche," he said. "Pray, be yourself again before I go, so that I may not be distressed when I think of you--here, alone. , "Oh, I shall soon be quite well," she answered, eagerly; "do not let that annoy or detain you an instant. I am better even now, much better than I was." So she swallowed a cup of tea, hastily, in proof of her convalescence, and tried to eat, but failed signally. Her husband went away by and by, and then she made haste to go up and dress herself for walking. Being completely ready, she watched the clock, and, finding the hour was not yet come, she walked the floor impatiently, becoming feverish and excited as the slow moments went by. Twenty minutes till twelve-that gave her just time, and she wanted no more; so she ran down-stairs, and out of the hall-door, without leaving word or message behind her, and was soon on the road to the Grove-street pier. -It was a long way, longer than she had thought for ; but yet she was there, and waiting, before the boat began to appear in at the landing. Then the passengers came flocking, out in a long stream. She stood back to let them pass, and then joined the tide that was setting inward. In paying her fare she discovered the possession of two purses, drawing both from her pocket at once; one was heavily filled with gold and notes, and this she replaced hastily, taking the money she needed from the other. Near the cabin door stood Dick Lavaridge, waiting ; but he was not the same creature in appearance as on the occasion of his fol- lowing and besetting her in the mean street a week before. Ile was decently clad, and wore his hair in better order than formerly. In fact he looked another man, and bowing respectfully, as Mrs. Farron passed, she was fain to turn and look an instant before she recognized him. "I'm fitter to spake to a lady nor I was before," he remarked, noticing her palpable astonishment. "Ye see, the master's laid up, and money goes furder in these days."   ON THE FERRY-tBOAT.         359 "I did not know you at first," confessed she, " but I am glad to see you so improved. Why did you name this place for a meetinug? 6 It was handy like, and I'll niver trust to the streets agin. Sure the gay blade that coined up to ye that day in Paris whin ye saw me first, and was tuck wake wid surprise, he's here, and he follyed me whether or no, and lurked about the place till, by ill luck, he got a sight at himm. I've been unaisy iver since, so I tuck him away to another place, where. we can be unmislested till we lave entirely." "' You say be is ill-is it a bad illness?'9 "Och! faith is it," and the man's voice trembled as he said the words. "It's a black illness that will have it's own before it's over; he's sinking intirely, and do what I will I can't rouse him." "Is it a fever?" "Och, no, no!" and the little man made a sign of contempt for such a slight ailment. "It's the head that's going,: and there's no hope for that. I have a doctor to him, and nothing's wanting that can be got; but he's past trying to help himself-that's the worst of it. He just lays there, aisy-like, and bothers about nothing. So ye may know he's purty low." "Where will you take him to?" "Troth, I don't-know, ma'am. Sometimes I think I'll stay where we are, for fear the moving about would be too much for him; but thin he'll take a rally for an hour or two, and be;, like himself agin. Whin he is, all the cry is to get away to a new place, where we're not known and there's no danger." "You are known here.' "Yes, to you and thim that's like you." "To the police, who have an object in tracing you out, and who are on your track even now." "How do you know that? Who tould ye?" "There's a man-William Fry by name-that always disbelieved the story of the jury, and determined to make his own plain -enough one day to take the form of evidence. He has seen you, and will prevent your leaving, mark whpt I say, if you ever return to the city off this boat."     360      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "But it's the master, ma'am, not me, that's to be considered. I know that man, and have give him the dodge many's the time. He's watching round Court-street, where Miss Debby lives,; but I don't go there now. Och! I'll not fret mesilf about it; I've lived at hiding too long for that." "Cannot you remain at the landing and send some one back for him? Then go straight to New York, and make up your mind where you'll go to from there." "No, he's not in a way to be trusted to any one but me. There's not a deed of my life that hasn't been his making, and I have no cause to fear anlly man but him. I'll stick by him till the ind, and no fear for either of us-we'll watch them all, for we're old at the business." "What do you need?" "Is it money you mane, ma'am?" "Yes-what do you want to take you away?"1 "All I can get; though, as I told ye, money goes furder now, and lasts longer, too." "I have brought you all I could. I have nothing left, so you need ask no more. But before I give it to you, I must say you shall never see it if you do not promise that Miss Debby and the Tod family shall be undisturbed, and that you will be content with what is here." "Let me have a grip of it. Well, yes. I give you my own promise; but remember, that goes no furder nor what will of me own he lets me have. He's too wake to do any thing but struggle through wid his breath now; but if it was our good luck to have him rise up to-morrow, he'd rather take this from me, and I'd niver lay eyes on a cint of it till it would be all through wid in gambling and drinking." "But he's past that, you say." "Och, yis; more's the pity, hcs past all such divarsion not."^ "Then I can trust you, can I not?" "Ye might always do that-I was niver a liar, nor a thief, nor worse, on me own account, and it's only the master's black luck that druv me to it on his. Yis, madam, I'll be off as soon as I   ON THE FERRYB OAT.          361 can rise him and get him started, and ye'll niver hear from me again till a black day falls on me that will be a bright one for you."  She put the heavy purse secretly in his hand-then drawing down her veil, leant over the guards, anu looked into the rippling water. "I'll not go back wid ye on the boat. I'll wait a bit over here, and ye can go widout any notice being tuck of you, thin. I want to spake a word to ye: don't think me so black as I look, and whin ye take to cursing me some day, remimber that whativer trouble I've brought on ye all, for his slake, I've shared as heavy mesilf." She raised her head, and bit her lips ionce or twice in an effort to control herself sufficiently to speak. At last she accomplished it, and said in a scarcely audible voice- "Do I understand you that-that he i dying?" The cripple choked at the words, and turned a, look of deep trouble on her. "I'm afeared yer right, but I don't sp ike it plain to mesilf just yet./ "Does he know of me?-does he menti n me?" Here Dick Lavaridge seemed to find stil1 greater difficulty of ut- terance; he shifted himself about, and cleared his throat again and again, while he waited for words. At length he said- "Well, no, you'd scarcely expect it; i 's not agreeable to him, ye see, and I don't think he ever was ollI to think much of any thing. He never has been sober enough t is last fifteen years for a serious thought." "But, surely, he does not drink now? You have a doctor, you say?" "Yes, I have; and it's him that gives him stuff to take thought out of his head. What is it now? Niver a one of me can mind names." "Opium?" "Troth, that's it. Och, it's quare to I ear him at nights, whin we're all alone, discoursing most beautiful ;o gentlemen he used to 16     ;62      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.  be wid before he tuck the lower track, and lost sight of iligant  i society. He niver forgets a name or a place thin, thoughl vhin  ye take him at himself he knows nothing at all about it." "Listen to me now: I don't know whether I can make myself clear or not, but whenever the last day comes, and you see it, if Death makes him remorseful and penitent, as I trust in Gods- lever- lasting mercy it will, then you come or send for me, I don' care how far or at what risk; and I will live in that hope." Dick shook his head doubtfully. "But I don't think you know the master, ma'am," he said; "he'll niver melt or soften in this world, for he niver know'd a, thought in all his life but for his own aise and comfort, ad re- morse and horror don't lade that way." "' Yet I will live in hope, and trust that heaven will awaken his soul and touch his heart before it ceases to beat."1 "Well, I can't say more power to yer wish, ma'am, bekaso I've tried to stand betune the master and what lhe calls trouble -man- insg any thing that goes agin his inclination; and this would He the sorest of all if it fell on him. Faith, ma'am, if Ralph McIlroy's conscience iver wakes up in this world, it'll be a black and bitter wakening." "Good-by, then; remember what I have said, and stop for noth- ing if you see any gleam of hope. I will go anywhere or every- where to be with him then." Dick sprang from the boat, and lost himself among the crowd on the other shore. Mrs. Farron remained in her place by the guard, still looking down on the water, until the boat filled up agaia and began to steam off. Then she found that some one was standing by her, waiting to gain her attention. It was a man with an agree- able face and cheerful air, respectable and respectful, with a sort of obeisance-such was the reverential nature of his bow to attract her attention. "James Kennedy, if you please, ma'am," he said, introducing himself politely; " not that I expect you to know me by name, but I'm the man that has lived for years and years with Mr. Tracy, and perhaps you'll remember me from him." ,   nev. aa yVu -bUAf.         363 "I never saw you before," said the lady, surprised, and a little coldly; "but I have heard of Mr. Tracy, though I really do not know why you should address me on that subject." "Oh! if you please, don't take it as a boldness or a rudeness. I heard you was a very high lady in your manners, butI says to myself, says I 'She's a real lady, and that's all I ask in any one I speak to. You see, Mrs. Farron, M Tracy is a regular invalid as he says himself, but there's not mu h the -matter with him be- yond the worrying of his mind. He's a gentleman that is bound to worry; if he don't have something substantial to worry about he'll worry himself, which is very miser able, as you may know, and ot satisfying. So you see, Mrs. Farrtn, being, as I may say, de- voted to him, I generally manage to fin him in a subject and ep him going regular. Some months ago he was out of subjects, and took to wearing on his own mind in a queer way; but now he's flush of subjects, and wears on me and himself from the very numerous- ness of them, as you may say, and that was what I felt like taking the liberty of saying to you," "To me?" echoed the lady, in still greater surprise. "Yes, ma'am, seeing that you are one of his subjects, and not knowing but you might' be good enough to show me the way of easing poor Mr. Tracy's mind about you " "About me!" Still more- amazed n tone and manner, she turned and looked full on the amiable nan, who was so curiously winding her into the interests of himself and master. "Yes, ma'am, I was surprised myself vheh I found it out. You see, it began the night he met Miss Lily Campbell and you to- gether." "- No ; Miss Campbell introduced me to him as I spoke to her from my carriage-window. ) "Just so; I guessed it out, and naturally, wasn't right to a pin's point. Well, it sent him home wit- a fit of trembling and a faintness on'him that tuins him cold and almost stunned-like. You. see, ma'am, he has a set of feelings for different sets of troubles: some of 'em set him off wild and raving, others lay him down like a blow that takes the life out of -a body, and then again others ':Ai      364      TEN YEAES OF A LIFETIME. make him cry and tremble and faint-like. You're that ki'nd, ma'am." "I!" Helplessly staring at the loquacious and confidential man, Mrs. Farron drew nearer to him and laid her hand upon his arm almost imploringly. "You are talking in a distractingly mysterious manner. Pray be plain, and tell me what you meat.), "I mean your picture, ma'am--that's what I mean. You see, I was pretty much confused myself till I found it out, and I never would have found it out but for that. le's had it a long time, too, but I never suspected what it was till I found him sleeping, in a hind of doze that comes on him after one of his fits of worry, and the picture was falling from his hand ; so I saw it plain, and then I knew that it was about you he had been going on ever since he came home in the worry, after seeing you in your carriage with Miss Campbell." "You are entirely mistakenl; what you have said must be a dream of your own imagination, because I do not know the gentle- man, nor does he know me. As for my picture-oh, it's simply impossible-just simply impossible." The man rubbed up his smooth hair, and in doing so discovered a wrinkle or two on his smooth forehead. He had a way of flat tening out his mouth in silent rejection of what he did not believe, and he now performed the motion in .reference to the lady's dis- claimer. "I beg your pardon, ma'am, well knowing it was a liberty I took in following you here, for the sake of speaking to you about the poor gentleman I was so interested in ; but as for the picture, I saw it with my eyes: and as for not knowing you, I saw the trouble you threw him into; but, as you well know, nobody can force you to relieve his poor broken heart, if your own kind soul don't give you the hint." Mrs. Farron was like one dazed completely ; the boat touched the landing, and people hurried by her. Instinctively she desired to aid all in trouble, and the man's face convinced her that he p'as in earnest in bespeaking her help. She paused a moment to gather   JENNY COAMES TO THE RESCUE.        365 her thoughts, but they were too wilely scattered to come at a slight bidding. "Mr. Kennedy, I am not quite prepared to talk to you about Mr. Tracy, because-because-there is some trouble between him and imy husband, I have heard. Your story of my picture is be- yond me to comprehend ; perhaps some meaning may come to me when I have further time to think. I will see you again whenever you can come to ime, or have any thing further to say. Good-by." ' She went ashore and hurried homewards, too M uch disturbed to notice that a man's figure kept her company every foot of the way. CHAPTER    XLYI. -JENNY COMES TO THE RESCUE. Miss DEBBY was seated at work in the back parlor, when Kitty announced, "An ould gintleman wishing to spake wid ye, Miss." Miss Debby started at the words "old gentleman," and motion- ing to Kitty, nervously, lest he should be within hearing, asked, in a whisper: W' ho is it?-I know of no old gentleman that would wish to see me." "I niver laid eyes on him in me life before," avowed Kitty- "that is, that I mind of. He's a quar, delicate-looking body, wid a wildness in the eye, and a trimble in the voice." Rendered still less satisfied with these vague characteristics, Miss Debby, who had become almost as full of forebodings as her poor sister used to be, stood striving To recall some face or figure to whom they might belong; but Kitty, not wailing for further orders, moved back a step or two, and beckoned towards the hall- door with her hand. Responding to this unceremonious invitation, a gentleman ap- proached. Older in looks than in years, bowed, trembling, and worn in every feature by some preying care, it was Mr. Richard Tracy, and none other, who bespoke Miss Delbby's permission to'enter, as     366      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. he stood, hat in hand, bowing, in the doorway. To Miss Debby he was an utter stranger-she had never looked upon his face be- fore; so her trepidation gave place to mild curiosity, and she stood waiting for a first word to guess at the nature of the visit. "Miss Le Roy, I believe."  "Yes, sir ; be good enough to take a chair.:" "Thank you. I fear I amn going to annoy you in what I am obliged to say; but it is absolutely necessary. That is my only excuse in saying it." Miss Debby's pale face paled a trifle more at this ; but she smiled faintly, and said- "I hope  it is not so disagreeable as to be really dreaded. I am a lonely woman, with but few interests in the world now, a d I have little to expect from it either of joy or sorrow." "AMy name--1 gave your servant my card-will probably sug- gest the subject of my inquiries. I am forced, through lately de- veloped circumstances, to go back to the past-I mean the time that my poor boy came to his shocking and mysterious end in your house." Poor Miss Debby A! sudden blindness fell upon her eyes, a cold sweat broke over her forehead ; she reached back and caught the chair behind her, and sank into it without the power to utter one sound. She had never dreamed of this. Never having beheld the uncle of her former lodger, his face gave her no warning ; and as for his card, Kitty was at that moment spelling out its Gernman- text by the kitchen window.               ! '"I see I distress you," murmured the stranger, compassionately, yet with an inexplicable and secret satisfaction in seeing that the pangs he endured were shared by another. "It is a terrible time for you to return to in thought-it is ever present to me. I hkve lived on such memories as food for so many years, that I have lost the taste of peace or blessed forgetfulness. For you, I'll mlke the bitter retrospect as short as possible. Have you ally recollec- tion of a man, or, it may be, two men, who were seen skulling about yourl place in those days? Think of it calmly, if you qan, madam, for much depends on your words. Such persons hlve         JENNY COMES TO THE KESCUE.        386 been seen, and are being traced now; but you would do nmuchll to aid in their discovery, and, if I mistake not, towards. your own future peace of mind, by commanding yourself sufficiently to give certain necessary clues and descriptions. Do you follow me, tMiss Le RoW?" The season of Miss Debby's faintne s and weakness had passed, she seated herself in an easier attitude, and controlling, her manner into calmness, replied, a little hoarsely, as if her voice were too wavering to be relied oa in its natural tone, but without confu- sion- "You are right, Mr. Tracy; that time was a sad and terrible time to me. My only sister died tlat night, and every other trouble culminated and was swallowed up in that one. Norah oc- cupied the parlors in her position, as head of our business. and could, if her attention had been attracted that way, have observed anybody and everybody who passed in the street; but I was al- ways in the work-room, whjich I never le1t, except at meal-times, all day long." "Yet, Miss Le Roy, this man or these men could not have been unknown to you, for a boy-Bob Tod by name-testified to hav- ing seen thenl enter and leave the house,"' Before Miss Delbby gould reply, Jenny Tod came limping in through the folding-doors, with sore strands of tiny ribbons trail- ing after her, that had become detached from lthe bolts she carried in her apron. She walked with unusual difficulty, and made a great show of becoming entangled with the streamers that floated round her. In disengaging herself she tirew down a chair close to where Mr. Tracy sat, with a crash that made the jarred nerves of that gentleman tingle.  Looking up as she put it in place, she seemed to perceive him for the first time. "Is it a gentleman who comes to tell us any thing about our Blob?" she asked innocently ; but before Miss Debby could speak, she added quickly, Oh, no; I see n, w--its the uncle of poor youngr Mr. Tracy.". The visitor turned instantly at the wo rd. "Did you know him? were you there?" he asked eagerly.     SC3]8     TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "Yes, I was there." She came between Miss Debby and him, and seemed to shut that lady out of the conversation, which was no doubt her intent. "I was there at the inquest; that was when I saw you, aud I stayed till every one left the house." "That was a mummery, and no inquest; twelve men with reason and judgmenllt could not say what they said without being liars or fools. They were fools, and looked no further than they could help into any thing. How I have cursed them in my soul, night after night, as I have gone over the whole scene and found their utter idiocy made plain before me, when it was too late to undo their doing.." Jenny shook her head in silent sympathy or acquiescence, but did not speak. "So when at last a clue falls into my hand, and I find myself on the way to discovery and triumph, you will not wonder, ma[am, that I seize it ardently, and drag up bygones to track its course correctly. My boy has lain in a dishonored grave so long, but he shall be righted yet." Miss Debby, to whom this last was addressed, shuddered slight- ly, and became a deadly white even to the lips, but did not speak. In ,a moment the dreadful pallor passed away, and she bowed her head in tokn of approving or understanding what he said. "But," he persisted, " you must forgive me if I beg you to tax your memory, or even shock your feelings, by striving to recall the man or men I speak of." "What men were those?" asked Jenny earnestly. Mr. Tracy turned to her. "Two men that a lad named ]3ob Tod testified to seeing lurking about the premises-bad-looking, suslpicions men--whose business nobody knew, and who disap- pcarcd as soon as the deed was done." Jenny had not appeared to follow his words so much as she had seemed to watch Miss Debby's face with a covert look, and w igh its meaning in her own mind. Now she drew her lips togetlher tightly, and nodded her head two or three times, whilst Mr. Tracy became absorbed in wonder as he viewed her face. "You know the people I mean-ah, I see you do I You can   JENNY COMES TO THll    RESCUE.     369 tell me about them-I see, I see 1" and he rubbed his hands in nervous exultation. -"I saw all Bob saw--he's my brother, sir-and I can tell you any thing he knew much plainer than he was capable of doing. Poor Miss Le Roy and her sister weren't conscious of the goings on around them ; and, as we're only detaining Miss Debby now, I'll go with you any time, and go over t e whole story, where you can take it down in black and white." Mr. Tracy looked rejoiced at this, but seemed a little confused likewise. He glanced irresolutely at Miss Debby, as if loth to abandon that hope; but her face gave him no promise. She seemed shocked and distressed-that was to be accounted for by his recalling her sister's death; but no disposition to be communi- cative on any subject dawned in her manner, which really ex- pressed no consciousness of the theme t o which he strove to lead her mind. This lame girl, then, seemed his only hope; and he ac- cepted her, after a second's irresolution, with energy and determin- ation to make the most of what she knev. "'Yes, yes," he said---" that will be the best way. You're a wise little creature; and Mr. George Campbell is the gentleman who will best arrange this matter in the form of evidence. You'll come to him-will you not?-Mr. George Campbell, a friend of mine, and an excellent gentleman." Jennyv stood considering--"Now?" she asked. "Oh, yes-every thing that is not caught at once flies from me. I can trust nothing that I do not secere. Forgive my impetu- osity; I cannot bear to wait. Say you'll be ready presently; and, begging this lady's pardon for my intrusion, I'll wait here in tho hall." Jenny's mind was made up-"All rig t!" she answered, with- out ceremony ; " go on, and I'll be with 3 ou in a moment." Mr. Tracy bowed towards Miss Debby and passed out. Jenny was about to follow, when, with a face that wrought in agony and terror, and that, in color, was like that of a corpse, Miss Debby threw herself before her, and silently held her back. Without speaking, Jenny raised the face that fell upon her 16*     370      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. neck, and looked into it steadily one instant before going on her way. There was something in the glallce, for the poor lady made no further effort to detain her, but let her pass out, clc sirg the door behind her, and presently join Mr. Tracy, with whom she went in the direction of Mr. George's office. CHAPTER   XLVII. DRIVEN   TO DESPERATION. l THAT same morning, Mrs. Farron being at home, alon(, and writing busily in a large blank book, in one corner of her elegant morning-parlor, a visitor was announced so unexpectedly th;t she closed the leaves and sprang up with a startled face and changing color--"Mr. Leland!" "I see I surprise you. Are you not in the habit of seeing morning callers?" "Not until I learn their names, usually." "Ah, yes-to be sure; but you will be good enough rot to blame your admirable man-servant-the inadvertence was mine. In fact, I followed my name as I did, in my eagerness to see you, and in my want of confidence in an equal desire on your parti" To this, she, still standing, gave no reply. "I fear I am not welcome: my remaining must be a fT rther proof of my devotion. I must see you." Still standing, she looked at him, but did not speak. "I am, as you know, bound hand and foot in the chains of another, but my heart is my own to give; and I have laid it, with all its depth of adulation, at your feet: all I ask in return is i;olera- tiou--all I receive is cold contempt and bitter aversion. I am not sensitive, but I can become desperate-and you may drive me so. From the first- moment I saw your face I have been your s]av e- at first, a poor and powerless one; but I have bought wealt 1 with part of my freedom, and I offer you my eternal devotion in return    AjU-MivM1NT Je L J JLOJlr'KA'T'1UN.  (1i for simple endurance. It is my pride and ambition to be the con- fidant of such a woman-the friend, the devoted slave. I am mag- nanimous in offering service where I possess power; but if you drive me to it, I will become a tyrant--and so I swear to you this day.1" "You come here to say all this to me--you who are to be pub- licly married to-morrow to a pure, noble-hearted girl, whose only folly is in the mad love and trust she gives you?'" "You do well to remind me of my wretchedness, but you only make me firmer in demanding a recomense for it all. I only de- sire- your favor, your confidence. When I speak to you, you turn a face of marble to'wards me; when I knuiw I hold you in my power, and you know it, yet feign to defy me." "You are able to render life a curse to me, if you yearn to have your ability acknowledged ; you hear it now?" "Can I never win you to believe in me, and trust me so far as to make it a blessing."  She regarded him an instant in silent wonder. ' "Why, I hate you and despise you, that you know, and yet yon e idiot enough to ask such a question. Oh, if I only had the /courage to defy you, too! H almost feel it would be best. My husband had better know me as I am, than think me what I am / forced to appear. Oh, if I could decide boldly, and abide by my decision!" She stood before the man, who thus persecuted her, looking so tortured by her distraction, so wretched in her irresolution, that, had his object been a strong or potent one, he must have yielded at once; but Albert Leland's nature was not elevated even in evil, but a mere compound of little faults thlat braced and supported each other into an immovable arch of selfish wrong. Very hand- some, very graceful, and moderately bright, he was poor, lazy, and unscrupulous. Little ambitions suited his little gifts; to be where his beauty, grace, and small-talk gave him. most power, was to float on the favor of society. Something must be sacrificed in gaining this: he gave up his liberty as an unmarried man. He owed him- self some indemnity: there was none so apparent or so grateful to     372      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. him as the acknowledged .favor of the handsomest and most fash- ionable woman in society; and to gain that was merely a zest to the placid endurance of the other. As no compunction disttrbed him under the painful fondness of his bride, save personal boredom, so no generous anger awoke a sting under this present contempt beond insulted vanity. "You are gracious to serving-men in all places, it would apl ear," h, said, tapping his hand with a glove he held in the other, and leanina against the mantlepiece in an attitude of chosen grace. "'Mr. Tracy's servant could keep your ear any length of timle on the ferry the other day, after you had parted from that most un- graceful familiar of yours; yet Mr. Farron and he are bitter en- emies." "You are a spy." "TWhere you are concerned, yes; it is the only way I can hold or gather my power over you." "I shall see Miss Wharton, and implore her to break her mar- riage with such a false wretch." He bit his lips, but presently laughing, said-- "It would only confirm her in the idea that you were jealous of her happiness." "I will not submit to see you. I am determined, and I will brave the worst. nMy husband will not believe you, and you will be branded as a traducer." "I never meant to trust to words, if I were driven so far. I have proofs, dear lady, proofs." ' "Go-go now, and give me time to think if I am to still live in drcead of you-you will see it. I will give you some sign if--if-I can free myself. You will be sure to tell that in my face." "One word before we part. I am received by you with con- tempt and scorn, and insulted at every word ; yet I submit to a delay that gives you an opportunity to defy me. Is this wise or weak on my part?" "I do not know; I shall not ask myself. Good-morning." "It shall be answered, that I promise you; to-morrow I shall have eyes only for you, and in your face will I read your doom or millne"   DRIVEN TO DESPERATION.        . 373 He went away, and she sat down quickly, and wrote a letter. She addressed it to no one, nor did she giye it date or signature, but she traced every word as if her heart's happiness hung on the point of her pen, and finishing it, folded it hurriedly and put it in her bosom. It ran in this wise  "When I stood alone in the wide world, without a face to turn to or a refuge open, you stood before me, and saved me in your noble goodness from madness or from death. I felt myself always, and ever after, to be guided by you, since it was to you I owed my life -nd reason; but have I done right, in keeping a secret from him to whom I owe even more-my happiness? You ad- vised it, and to obey you seemed nature; but the consequences are bitter, bitter, bitter I Let me hear from you, since I cannot see you without trouble, and tell me if in all and every case I had better bear then dare. I think I know my husband, and I feel brave when I am so persecuted by the horrors of secrecy." Mhrs. Farron dressed herself for a morning drive, and went out of her splendid house looking as became its mistress. But once in the carriage, she sank back out of sight of the promenaders that passed and repassed on the sidewalk, and seemed to give herself up to gloomy pictures, drawn under her bent brows by eyes that had no look of peace or pleasure in all their luminous depths. Into Court-street ;--for, by chance, she remembered a trifle she needed from Miss Tod, the milliner, and bade the coachman drive there. Arrived at the door, she glanced upwards at the windows far above, and slowly drew out a laced handkerchief of costly work, and made a feint of using it about her face. In the parlor she found Miss Tod busy with other customers. "Would she wait an instant?--Miss Tod was left alone to-day, her sister being called out suddenly on business, and Miss Le Roy not being'well enough to be down in the parlors." "Certainly-Mrs. Farron was not at all in haste; she would look at some of those pretty things in the next room, that were, no doubt, intended for the wedding next day." Pursuant with this idea she retired into the back-parlor, where a half-dozen white bonnets, covered with blonde, were hanging on     374      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. stands, and became apparently absorbed in their contemplation, The door leading into the hall stood ajar. She touched it with her gaiter, and set it wide. The next instant, Mr. Siebert, with his head slightly bent, according to custom, passed down, and, with a quick side-glance, saw her there. She stood facing him, with her lland upon a veil of blonde she was about to raise, and fixed on him a mournful, appealing look, that seemed to ask for hope. Kind and compassionate, he returned the gaze, but did not step forward. Dropping the lace she held, she moved round to another wonder of white crape and snowdrops on the other side of the room, and, passing him close, laid in his hand the folded letter she had carried in her bosom, which he took without a word, and went away with, leaving her wrapped in delight above the gem of taste and millinery skill. So long was she spell-bound above this beautiful work of art, that lMiss Tod had settled with her patrons in the other parlor, and stood at liberty to wait on her before she was ready to leave it. Hastily wiping her eyes, as if her admiration had extended to tears, she dropped her veil half over her face, and came forward as soon as she observed that the parlor was empty. ' I left an order with the other lady- Miss Le Roy, I think- and she said it would be completed this week." "What sort of bonnet was it, if you please?"1 "Ah, yes-let me see-a white Dunstable straw, I think, with oak-leaves in the trimming. I scarcely need it now, but merely wished to inquire when it would be done." "I am very sorry,"? began Miss Tod, deprecatingly--"Miss Le *Roy has been ill, and I really don't know what to say about it. She was obliged to neglect it, and will, no doubt, be able to tell me all about it, if you can wait while I speak to her." "Certainly ; but, pray, don't disturb her in the least on the subject. You see, I only meant to remind her, and shall be sorry if she allows it to give her a particle of annoyance." "You are very good," said Miargaret, gratefully. "She has had a very exhausting attack of nervous fever, and was compelled to give up for days to it." Mrs. Farron's face expressed so great a depth of concern and /   DRIVEN TO DESPERATION.          375 distress at hearing this, that Margaret's pleasure in finding her so sympathetic yielded to surprise at the extent of the emotion-- "You are very, very kind, Mrs. Farron,' she said; "we busi- ness people seldom find such consideration in -our employers. It will relieve Miss Debby's mind to know that you are willing to wait, and are not much incommoded by waiting," Mrs. Farron nodded, and seemed in recollecting herself to rather lessen the display she had made of feeling. Left alone, she seated herself on a sofa near the door, and resting her head on her hand, seemed to think deeply and abstractedly for a long time. Miss Tod was gone much longer than one would have thought necessary, and she neither moved nor raised her eyes from the carpet, till a light, slow footstep crossed the hall; and Mr. Siebert coming down, from his room, to go out, in passing, laid a paper in her lap. She slipped it among the folds of her dress, and gave only one upward glance at his face as he went by; for Miss Tod came back at last, and full of apologies for the detention, acknowledged that she had found Miss Debby sleeping after a wakeful night, and being loth to wake her, had looked about among the boxes in her room to discover how nearly complete the white Dunstable might be. "She awoke when she heard me, and she begs me to say that it will be finished di-' rectly, and she really feels ashamed of the delay." 'Not at all-tell her I do not need it for a fortnight yet, and it will annoy me if she hurries about it." Mrs. Farron now  made great haste, having accomplished her errand, and scarcely stopped to take up her gloves and sunshade in her hurry to be gone. In the corner of her carriage, after it had driven out of Court- street, she opened the artist's letter, andt read it over as a famished person would eat. It, like her own, was not addressed nor signed, and held these words: . "When I counselled you to tell only a part of your sorrow to him who is your best and truest friend, it was because I hoped to show you the reason for that reservation long ago. I think if I had known how long a time would pass without its being accounted for, I should not have so advised you. Now I entreat you to be     376      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. silent a little time--the burden you bear has been already fitted to your shoulders, and you will not have to learn to support its weight. But, althougrh I write this, I would not have you consider your own instincts as nothing-let them have equal weight with my entreaty, and if you find them stronger, be guided by them alone. I do hope still that what you have endured may not be borne in vain, and I am always entirely your friend." She dropped the paper on her lap, and looked out away into nothingness, it would seem, from the dull quiet of her eyes. The horses reared and pranced their way along through other equi- pages of elegance and fashion. Many gracious faces looked out of carriage-windows, and bowed and smiled as they went by, but lMrs. Farron saw nothing but the space into which she looked to watch the battle between desperation and hope. She reached her own doorstep, and then the conflict seemed over, for she said to herself, as she thrust away the writing-"I will wait a little longer, and I will even endure that creeping villain's smile." Her husband was not at home, and would not be until late. So he had said in going out, Butler reported; so she went up to her own chamber again, and throwing aside her walkin(-dress, sat down by the window to look out into the street. A respite to distress had come to her, and she felt strangely weary and ex- hausted as she hailed the blessing of repose. Time went by, and having said she did not wish to be called to dinner, twilight dark- ened round her in the same idle watching posture. Then she rose up, and yawned, wearily. "For I feel as if I had been sitting in -a sort of trance, whilst the world went on its way without me," she thought. Some one came to the door-it was her maid, Claudinc. "Would she bring some tea?" she asked. No, Mrs. Farron would go down to tea. Were there many visitors to-day? "Yes-Butler has brought up the cards-they are in the draw- ing-room, if her mistress would see them. They had said not at home to all." "Yes, yes, I am not quite well enough for society; but if the   TO-MORROW's   BRIDE.        3" Misses Campbell come this evening, pray let them be brought up, I will see them." "Yes, madam; but perhaps they have been here already. Would you see the -cards?" No, they had not been, but others had to any extent; it would seem to have been a levee day without a reception. Mrs. Farron ran over the names till she came to one printed in square text, at which she paused astonished, ,with her brows knit above the words "William Fry," till a painful light broke on her, and she thrust it quicdly out of sight, but catching it back again tore it in shreds so tiny that they scattered about her like dust. Back again came the wild distress and foreboding ..that racked her soul and made her life bitter. She put away her tea untasted, and rose and walked  that aimless walk of those who would fly from trouble. Presently recollecting herself, she sat down again, and in the presence of the staid and respectful man-servant who came to preside over that meal, strove hard to take food, and at least make a show of eatc ing it. CHAPTER    XLVIII. TO-MORROWS BRIDE. IT was a bright moonlight night, and she went into the drawing- room and ordered no lights to be made till she should ring for them.  Then she set aside the heavy curtains and looked out into the street below, with the weird light and shadow of the lovely moon upon it. She thought of the strange under-current of her life, that had become a throbbing pang from its depth and secrecy. There she pictured to herself the brilliant future, whose promise it had marred and broken, and out of her distracted soul went up one long cry for peace and rest, and the ability to be what she had been born-a woman without deceit or reticence-a being full of impulse and devotion.     37t8      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "A young lady is below-she wishes to see you for a few min. utes, and will not send her lame." Butler's voice broke in upon her with a sudden jar. She came back a1 long way into the present;, and stood staring at him a second before she gave his homely figure identity. "You had better light the chandelier, and then show her up. Stop an instant. You know the Misses Campbell-is the lady one of them?" Butler could not say exactly. She was about as tall as the tall- est sister, he thought, but he did not notice her face " partickler?" "Then tell her to come up, please." She came, and standing for a moment half falteringly in the doorway, astonished Mrs. Farron by revealing the face and figure of Miss Alice Wharton--to-morrow's bride. Without speaking, she made a deprecating gesture with her hand, and closing the door behind her, advanced swiftly towards the surprised lady, who had not uttered a word of greeting ,beyond the first exclamations. Glancing about her hurriedly, Miss Whar- ton assured herself that the drawing-room held none but them, and then she came and threw herself on her knees before its mistress' feet. "In Heaven's name, Aiss Wharton, what does this mean? Rise, I beg of you, and do not act so madly ; you leave me with- out the power of thinking or reasoning while you remain in such a position." "Mrs. Farton, I am praying for my life; and if there could be a greater prostration before you, I would assume it. Those who beg for common favors can afford to choose their postures; but I, madam, implore you to spare what is more to me than all the earth could be to you, and if you hope for mercy at the last judg- ment, show mercy to me now." "My poor girl, do not talk so wildly. Let me understand you, and Heaven knows how earnestly I wish that I could serve you." She stooped, and took the hands that were stretched out to- wards her in supplication, and drew the kneeling figure up towards her. The compassionate voice, the full, beaming eyes that over- flowed with sorrowful pity, touched the suppliant's soul, and she   TO- MfORROW'S BRIDE.         379 rose, and, sinking into a chair beside the woman she thought her rival, fell to sobbing violently. "He is all the world to me-'all, and more than all: to you he can be nothing but a passing pleasure; and for a moment's joy youn would wreck my life and hope forever. I did not think I should speak in this way. I came to demand my husband from you, as a woman who was dishonestly alluring him from duty. It is my right to do so, and you are forced to hear me and to an- swer me.7" Mrs. Farron recovered herself, and rose and stood looking quiet- ly and determinedly down upon the agitated creature who one moment supplicated and the next commanded. ".Miss Wharton, I know you think me your enemy. God knows, I would sacrifice almost any consideration in life to prove myself your friend. I have known the man to whom you have given yourself but a little while longer than you; but I know him better, and I wish to Heaven that I knew him to be worthy of you. I believe that you will marry him, and would do so if he were proven to be the worst of living creatures; buf I entreat you to think to what you are condemning yourself. There are worse things in life than a broken heart, that I know. If you disappoint your own soul of its dearest wish, it cannot equal the long, slow agony of having hope crushed and bruised out of it, day by day, till the end comes. That man will do it. Your own heart mis- gives you and warns you of as much." "No, no, no!" she cried vehemently. "I dread nothing and fear nothing, but his loss. His presence is complete and perfect joy. It is enough for me to feel that I have won him, and dare heaven and earth. Remember, I do not believe that you could rob me of hm. I think andctrust I have too strong and clear a hold upon his heart for that ; but you disturb my happiness,; you draw his senses into a strange sort of evil fascination, that leaves his affections free, but bewitches his mind. Do not do this I Oh, I implore you, do not do this! It makes me wretched and wild, and sometimes plunges me in so deep and terrible a misery, that I feel I shall go perfectly mad."     380      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "I do not do it," said the other, with a' white face and a trembling voice; "I assure you, solemnly, as I hope for heaven, I have no wish concerning, the mani, save that I shall never see his face again!" "Oh! tell him so! In my presence, will you-can you tell him so? But no-I do not believe you. How could you feel in- different, when I have seen him talk to you, and look at you with those glorious eyes, and envied you every beam of their light? It is itrpossible; but you are wronlg to say this, and only do so to deceive me." "I tell you, silly girl that you are, that what I have said is the strictest truth ; but yet it scarcely expresses what I feel. I detest this idol of yours, because I have seen his shallow, selfish heart. I am not only indifferent to him, but I have always shrunk from and avoided him." "I have my sight, and it is a witness against you. I have looked at you, and almost hoped to see you wither under the ac- cusation of my eyes. Why do you speak to him?" "There is a reason," began Mrs. Farron, slowly, and then she paused. "There is a reason i" echoed the other, wildly-" what is it? Speak, in Heaven's name!" "No," said Mrs. Farron, coldly and firmly; s"I have nothing to say. I give you my solemn word that Mr. Leland is no friend of mny seeking, and that I am only anxious to avoid him. Saying this, I say all; and you must rest content on this assurance. Miss Wharton, this attack is scarcely womanly ; it is not generous or just to accuse a person that has given you no offence, and defend a man who has shown so early a want of faith and fealty." The poor girl's face flushed scarlet, and a struggle between shame and anger dyed even her neck and forehead. "I will not be judged and wronoed by the same thought,: she said, in petulant bitterness; "it is enough that I have endured martyrdom to give me the right to speak my wrongs. I am not a child in years ; I have lived long enough, without companionship or sympathy, to become a disbeliever in human love. Tle fresh-   TO-MORROW S BRIDE.          381 ness or spring-time of my youth has gone, and this feeling is the growth and fulness of maturer years ; it cannot be rooted out, and it will not fade." "You once despised such folly, and thought all love false." "I had never felt it then, nor had I seen him. I was a fool, and am punished for my folly." "Your only trouble will be what you are yearning after as your dearest joy. You do not trust this man, or you would never appeal to me as you have done; but you have nothing to fear, except from your own heart. 'What has never been true cannot grow false ; and he will be no worse than he is. I shall, or can, do no more than to say again his very presence is distasteful to me, and to see him no more would be peace and happiness." "Then do not come to the marriage to-morrow; for God's sake, do not poison that time with the curse of envy and jealousy!" "I promise you I shall be glad to stay away. It is impossible that we should understand each other now, and we are wasting words that give no assurance to either."' Miss Wharton rose up and drew her mantle about her. "You are not a wicked woman-I believe thus much," she said, and looked steadily down on the colorless face before her; " but, when you deny the power he has over you, you simply deceive yourself. One thing only you can do--leave us, and keep away from his influence, for your sake as well as mine." Mrs. Farron bit her lip, but offered no reply, and her strange visitor turned to go, but paused lingeringly, and seemed to feel some compunction in her generous but blinded nature. "You will keep faith with me?" she asked, appealingly, as she reached the door. "I begin to trust you, though almost against my reason." "I can say nothing further, and the greatest proof-I could give of my devotion to you is the endurance of your contemptible sus- picions-do not repeat them." So they parted, and the figure that sped along under the shad- ows in the  moon-lighted streets reached its destination in the house, where preparations for to-morrow's gayeties were rife, before     382      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. the one in the lonely drawing-room had moved from toe position by the mantlepiecce, with folded arms and a bent head, over which the clouds of suspicion and distress were gathering hourly. CHAPTER   XLIX. A POSTPONEMENT. "THERE iS nothing on earth less propitious or agreeaole tnan postponinog a wedding ceremony," said Mrs. Wharton, in a tone bordering as nearly on distraction as her sweet voice ever could become. It is such a shocking bother, too," said Mrs. Leonard, discon- tentedly. "You know, people have to get themselves up to ex- pecting such things, and knowing what to say, and all that. I am positively half dead with the worry and fussing myself, and I don't believe Alice is too ill to go through with the ceremony, if they gave her sherry and all that sort of thing." "But it's the disagreeable inconvenience of delay that seems to be the greatest objection," remarked Jane. "L Here are Julia and I actually losing precious time every moment we remain, and Alice is very inconsiderate to indulge in those spasms of sentiment just now. Julia is patience itself, but I can see that she is very anxious to be going, since our plans are completed." "The poor child looks ill," suggested Mrs. Wharton, with a faint dawn of motherly feeling in her tone. "When did she look any thing else?" asked Mrs. Leonard, elightingly. "She behaves so very foolishly about Albert that I have no patience with her." "She never could do any thing in a rational manner, you know, not even get married like any one else. It is too absurd to see her watching him in society; and people remark it, too." "Jane," said her mother, gently but warningly, "you might be   A POSTPONEMENT. -          383 called bitter, and perhaps disappointed, by a casual listener, so I hope you will be less denunciatory in your tone." A sudden redness that was very like anger glowed all over Miss, Wharton's face, and tinged even the top of her nose, but she held her peace, and, beyond an indignant ahem or two, gave no reply to the painful insinuation of her parent. This was very early on the morning of the expected weddinrg, and after Mrs. Wharton had been aroused at a distressingly unsea- sonable hour by a message from her, younger daughter's chamber, requiring her presence there, to learn that a singularly sudden ner- vous fever had rendered the poor girl utterly incapable of rising or in fact conversing rationally for three minutes at a time. Miss Jane had been awakened, and 5Mrs.- Leonard sent for, to hold a family council, and the result was impatient indignation against the untoward delay, and poor Alice herself for succumbing as a victim to it. ' For if she were only to control herself a little," they all said, "lthero would be no occasion of having a scene and writing- notes and making explanations." Miss Julia Farron descended the stairs to breakfast, entirely unconscious of the change in the wedding programme, to meet with the troubled faces assembled in the reception-parlor. It was rather noteworthy that this young lady had made no al- lusion to the coming event in any way ever since she and her fel- low-workers had been delayed in their benevolent projects to witness the ceremony. On the contrary, she appeared to avoid the subject, and although yielding to the necessary interruption, to in- demnify herself by absorbing herself still more "fully in her own pursuits, and entirely lose sight of every other interest or surround- ing. "Alice sick, did you say?" she exclaimed with concern; "I trust it is nothing serious." "A fever that has rendered her quite delirious to begin with," remarked Jane in an injured manner. "You know some people are always affected in that way, if the attack be ever so light. Perhaps a few days of perfect rest and quiet will quite restore her."     3S4      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "Rest and quiet!" echoed Jane, with increasing annoyance. "Why, Julia, you know she was to be marlied to-day, and we are driven to our wits' end to know what to do." Miss Farronl changed color suddlenly and sat down. "It is her wedding-day-I rememlber now; and she is ill? Where is Mr. Leland?" "Oh, I really don't know; nobody seems to know what to do about it, and I believe he has not been written to at all, or in any way warned of the state of affairs." "Good gracious!" cried Mrs. Leonard distractedly; "and he will be coming here in a carriage all got up for the wedding, and I shall be sent down to explain every thing, and I had rather die than go through with it, and so I tell you all." "You will keep thinking of yourself only, Nettie?" said Jane, severely, who, being quite free from the sill of selfishness, was well able to condemn it in others. "Julia, pray, advise with us." "No, no," cried Miss Farron, with a slight shudder; " don't ask me any thinbg about a wedding; H am not the one to talk with about those things." She rose up again quickly, and went and stood by the window, looking down into the street below. "Here is Mr. Leland, now," she said, turning round. "He drives up with a gentlemaln--it is Colonel Leonard-and they are com- ing in." "Ah," cried Mrs. Leonard, with a resigned shiver; "now I shall have to go down and be tortured." "On the contrary, Nettie, I shall have them shown up here," said her mother, resuming her usual sweet placidity, and banishing the tiny curves of perturbation from her countenance. "Gentlemen, good-morning. You find us in despair-our poor Alice is quite ill--and we were just on the point of sending to you, Albert, when Miss Farron announced your carriage at the door." A shade of annoyance crossed the handsome, smiling face before her; then curiosity took its place, and he waited, with a dash of impatience in his interested manner. "Ill, did you say? how ill?"   A POSTPONEMENT.          385 "Oh, quite sick, you know ; but not dangerously so, I trust and believe. She is feverish and a little delirious ; but the doctor has been here, and given her a powder, which has made her quiet. I am ver vevery sorry, Albert, and quite at a loss what to do." "Is she unable to rise?"  "Oh, dear, yes ; she could not lift her head from the pillow." "Then there is nothing left but to write to those who are ex- pected to be here, and beg to postpone the pleasure of seeing them." "Certainly," said, Mrs. Leonard, foreseeing some relief in the proposition, "and Jane can do these things so readily." "I'll drive over to the Farrons myself," said Mr. Leland. "I shall be better able to make them understand. Ah! excuse me, Miss Farron, for the moment I did not see you. lMrs. Wharton took me by surprise, and that must explain my stupidity." "Pray, will you carry a message for me?" she asked, accepting his apology with a slight bow. "I have a commission or two for Butler, and he is really the only one I can trust about our business duties. Or, may I ask, will you drive me over? I dare say I can be of no use here just now." "Certainly, by all means," cried Mr. Leland, eagerly  Not being quite sure of the nature of the reception he might look for, he hailed with pleasure the prospect of an excuse in going. "I will see if Alice is resting," said her mother; "and if she is quiet I will let her know that you are here, and what we have de- termined on doing." "Julia, could not you assist me in this note business, dear?" "Don't ask me 1" cried Miss Farron, in a frightened whig'per.  "I will not touch such things ; they are not for me or I for them." She walked quickly to the window again, where she seemed to seek composure, and returning, said she must make haste or Mr. Leland would be impatient, and it was about those applications for suitable lots that she wished Butler to go to the Trustees of the Benevolent Fund. Jane becamei at once interested, and even while drawing her writing-desk to the wiAdow and spreading out paper and envelopes ,.            IT     386      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. paused to give suggestions relative to presenting the plea, and di- rections about certain officers that had better be consulted xand won over in its favor. "Alice is sleeping heavily," said Mrs. Wharton, returning; "it must be the powder she took, for her eyes are partly open and she really looks ill." The tender bridegroom sighed lightly, and opined, with a little shrug of his shoulders, that it would " amount to just nothing at all." Iiss Farron had swallowed a cup of coffee standing, and an- nounced herself ready in a moment. It would have seemed, from Mr. Lcland's resisnation at this remark, that his experience of ladies' moments had not been of a cheerful nature; for he tapped his boots with his cane, and strode up and down the room, forget- ful of Mrs. Wharton's watchful eye or the presence of her two daughters. Major Leonard evidently considered himself fortunate in making an early escape from the family quandary, under pretence of "hur- rying home, you know, to make different arrangements for the day, it being necssary to rather economize one's engagements at the  hunting season." But Miss Farron proved that her moments were not feminine in their elasticity, for she returned almost instantly, drawing on her gloves as she came down, with a large package of papers under her arm, as unlike the belle and beauty of former times as any one ,could imagine. To lellingham Square was a long drive but Mr. Leland was not conversational just then, and rather rejoiced to find in his com- panion a cahn taciturnity that overmatched his own. After a word or two about Alice's sudden illness and the general annoy- ance of postponements, she sank into the quiet contemplation of the streets they passed through, and left her cavalier to his own devices. They were weak and silly enough, never extending beyond the coming hour, and of no higher aim than mere personal triumph or vain gratification. Now, he thought, she must see me, and she   A POSTPONEMENT.           387 shall advise withme in spite of herself; she cannot refuse before her step-daughter, for she fears her more than all the rest, that I have seen." "Did I understand you to say that you were coming to call on MSrs. Farron?" asked his companion, as he assisted her to alight at the door of her old home. "I cannot promise ybu that she will be visible-these are early hours for gay people, you knot." "Yes; but I flatter myself that Mrs. Farron will not deny her- self to me. I am an old friend, who dares claim something beyond the mere interests of acquaintanceship." The least possible elevation of those once haughty brows was his only reply, for Miss Farron had ceased to feel the small interests in her surroundings that make up the stronger social ties. She could not be much surprised, pained, or delighted with any thing or anybody in these quiet working-days; so she dismissed the thought as it came, and ushered up to the drawing-room her step-mother's particular friend. "'And here I must desert you, Mr. Leland, because I shall be obliged to dispatch Butler on my business before the meeting of the Board, which is called for eleven to-day. I have sent for Mrs. Farron, and she will, no doubt, join you presently." But Mrs. Farron was at that moment too deeply occupied with her own thoughts to even hear Butler's announcement as he stood at the door of her sitting-room, repeating- "Miss Farron and a gentleman, ma'am-and the gentleman is waiting in the parlor." To be sure, she nodded her head towards him, as she became conscious of the monotonous repetition; but the meaning of his words never reached her ears. Two pieces of paper, written over -in different hands, lay before her, and she -read first one, then the other, in a dazed sort of way, as if their conflicting sense was too much for her to realize. The one was large, clear, roundhand, plain, and decided in every letter. It said- "The same instinct that taught me who you were when I first      388      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. looked at you, discovered you to a man who had been in search of you for years, with a strong suspicion against you to serve him as an impetus. He has satisfied himself entirely as to your identity by the fraud of a letter supposed to come from me, and now is  I comDleting a chain of evidence in which to enthral you. I have aided him unknowingly, because I thought I was the only one who i held the secret, and could help Miss Debby without betraying you. I have failed, and now have only time to warn you. Whatever you would avoid, do it by fligrht-it is your only safety now." The other was a curious scrawl, crooked and tumbled-looking, ill spelt and worse written. It held these words : "Deer Miss-I mind your stayinc, and I am going to kape my   j promis. The master is going fast-it may be faster than we think -he says little or nothing, but I think his looks is stronger nor I speech, and a word or two might bring his mind aisier. If he lasts out till morning, it's all I can look for; but if ye come at night, it  will be better for us both. It's not the old place-we left that after we saw a watch was set on us-so I'll be waiting for ye on the Square. I'll not give ye a sign to know me by, bekase I'll see ye whativer ye put on, and come up to ye whin I find there's no trouble or spying. Don't be long afther dusk, for I don't lave him by himself much." Mrs. Farron looked first at one paper and then at the other. She was cold and numb in feeling; yet, under all her distress and confusion dawned a faint indefinite hope that held fear in abeyance. t Her husband had been aIbsent since the day before, and not one f word had she received in explanation of his delay-a vague feeling of d]read filled her mind when she recurred to him, that momentarily } gave place to a desperate hope that he should in some way know the worst, and leave no more to be feared. Then rose the phan- tom of an unburiable scene, and a sick terror stole upon her like a deadly blight, and made her long that the dull hours would pass on in haste towards night, and so disclose the worst. "Iie is watching," she said to herself, " and he will not be over- reached by any plan of mine; nor shall I strive against him-that   MRS. WHARTON   BECOMES TROUBLED.      389 is all over now. Heaven's vengeance or mercy is beyond the law, and that alone is to be dreaded or implored. I stand alone in this ; but I must remember what she would have done, and do her will to the last." "i Mr. Leland is waiting below, ma'am." "I shall see no stranger to-day. I am completely occupied by business that cannot be deferred, and will not be interrupted." She closed the door and turned the key in it. lMiss Farron, passing down with a large square of drawing-paper and crayons into the drawing-room, for a better light wherein to pursue her draught of an improvement of thfe architect's plan, met the gentle- man who had so politely escorted her home, looking neither polite nor pleasant, but full of evil thoughts and bitterness of mind. Perfectly unconscious of his interests or disappointments, she smiled absently, and hoped he had found Mrs. Farron well. With- out waiting for a response to her civility, she passed him, but, re- turning quickly on after-thoughts, cried over the balustrade- "Pray, may I trouble you with a commission?  Jane will ex- pect to hear the answer of the committee,' and Butler mav be late in returning--just tell her, please, that, if there is any tling to threaten our success, I'll drive up immediately and warn her; but that I hope we shall be able to carry every thing our own way." Amiable and polite in the extreme was the bow and smile that Mr. Leland returned to this; and Miss Farron, who wasted no thoughts on her own species, except they took the form of objects of charity, went back to her work, forgetting himl before she reached it. CHAPTER   L. MRS. WHARTON BECOMES TROUBLFD AND CONFIDENTIAL. IN the city of ]New York there are so many elegant places of entertainment for travellers, that it seemed almost inexplicable that Mr. Farron, a gentleman of wealth and elegant tastes, should     390      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. lhave chosen so plain a stoppinog-place as the queer, old-fashioned two-and-a-half-story lodging-house, next door to an old church, and:, just beside a brewery, in a mongrel neighborhood, far away down town. Yet here he went directly on his arrival in the city; and  i to t. is place it would seem that he came directed, inasmuch as he - referred to a dirty bit of paper that he/ carried in his hand, as he entered the street, and by its aid selected the especial house at 3 whichll to stop. Ringing at the door, he waited with some little confusion for an answer ; and when it came, in the person of a queer old woman, with a withered countenance and a sharpened    j manner, he seemed really at a loss for the proper words in which  I to make his request for a lodging-room, to be paid for in advance. "We have a room," returned the old woman, cautiously; "but I'm pretty sure it won't suit." Mr. Farron felt positive that it would, and, without more ado, offered the sum necessary to secure it. "You'd better see it," suggested she. "I think it will be quite unnecessary; but cannot you give me breakfast and tea here? I will dine down town, but will be will- ing to pay liberally for the accommodation of meals." "Miss Satterly will tell ye 'bout that," replied the old woman. I'm only her aunt, you see; and, though I can manage very  well about the rooms, I wouldn't undertake to promise any thing . more."  "Is she engaged at present?"  The old person would see, if he would wait. Certainly, he would wait, and, apparently, do any thing else that would secure him the footing in the household that he seemed so desirous to obtain. Miss Satterly presently appeared-a small and more compressed edition of her aunt-and with some compunctions on the subject of not being able " to suit gcentlemen as had been accustomed to high ways."7 Disclaiming every thing that would give a suspicion of trouble, or in any way occasion difficulty to his landlady, Mr. Farron begged that he might share the family meal, and promised to be amply sat-   :MRS. WHARTON BECOMES TROUBLED.        391 isfied with it, whatever its character. "Well, that's about how it will have to be, sir," remarked Miss Satterly, confidentially, " for we nlever have no strangers about us in the way of servants, and Aunt Mat and me is obliged to do every thing for ourselves." So it was agreed on between them, and the morning of the day that saw Mrs. Farron a, prey to conflicting tortures, found him seated at the small round table presided over by those two dried anid withered women, delighting in their weak coffee and praising their thin toast. "But,'" he said, suddenly turning towards them, "you don't either of you seem strangers to me, because of a kind act you did in years past to a friend of mine, a poor lady who was in deep trouble then. Perhaps you will recall her when I tell you her aame-Mrs. Law--a pretty woman with black hair and eyes, who had a long fever here." "Hum,"' said Miss Satterly, but she changed color as she said it-" there's such a many people comes to a lodging-house lilke this in the course of twenty years, that it would be hard to say which of 'em you mean." "This one had good reason to remember you and yours, and I do not believe that you have entirely forgotten her." 'That's as it may be," replied Miss Satterly, unsatisfactorily; but her aunt, with a weaker feeling of secrecy and a strontger dawning of curiosity, hinted- "The gentleman could tell us what become of 'em, perhaps. You know, Annie, you always said you'd give a sight to hear." "I know you are long-tongued enough, any way, aunt Mat," returned her niece, ungraciously. "We are keeping the gentleman from his business with our gabbing about things we don't know nothing about. We'll have tea at seven, sir, and I suppose that 'll suit you as well as any other hour." But Mr. Farron Was not so easily dismissed from their confi- dence, and, to do him justice, evinced himself a, gentleman of many resources in the way of inducing disclosures and extractiOng secrets. -le had given himself up to the study of Miss Satterly's weak points, and by the aid of that knowledge coolly avowed that there     392      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. was nothing to interfere with his prolonging the meal, and skilfully led the conversation into a channel that lulled her suspicions against his having any latent designs in gaining her confidence, and awakened much agreeable feeling by his agreeability and address. A The task seemed a pleasing one, for tea-time found him renewing it, and full of the warmest and most demonstrative friendship for the stiff little female, who gradually unbent to confidence, and rewaJrdcd all his efforts in subduing her natural sharpness and dis- trust, by fully confiding to him the story he had worked so hard to hear. Meantime day wore on, and evening came with creeping shadows around the splendid chamber of his wife. Sick at heart with the dreary waiting that was full of fear and expectancy, she rose and walked about, numb and wretched, yet hailing- the darkness as better than the light. "Mrs. Farron," said Butler's voice at the door; "Mrs. Farron, Mrs. Farron." He waited a moment between every repetition, but pronounced the nanme loudly and impressively, as if determined to be heard. Instantly she irnlocked the door, and stood before him, with a  look of severity on her colorless face. "I begged that I should not be disturbed upon any account," she said, warningly. "Yes, ma'am, I know ; but you see, it was the only thing I could do: there is Mrs. Wharton, saying she must and will see you, and I wasn't equal denying any more than I have done." ," Mrs. lVharton!" repeated Mrs. Farron slowly; "does she give any reason for wishing to see me?" "She's in the hall now, ma'am, and says she'll wait any time at all, but that she must see you, and that's all she says." "Well, please tell her I will be down in a moment." Down she went, and very quiet and composed she was, a trifle surprisd at the oddness of the hour Mrs. Wharton had chosen for calling, but courteous and kindly, as was her wont.' Perhaps no placidly, sweet, and perfectly-mannered woman ever was as flurried as the poor lady she addressed. She trembled, and   MRS. WHARTON BECOMES TROUBLED.        393 bit her quivering lips, and tried to speak, yet had not the power or self-control. She was white and red by turns, and altogether the very opposite of her former self in every respect. "Mrs. Farron, I no doubt surprise you by coming in upon you so unceremoniously, and remaining despite your servant's order to the contrary." Here she paused, and accepting Mrs. Farron's in- vitation to sit, took a chair close beside, her. "My daughter is ill-so ill as to render her family wretched and almost-*opeless." Mrs. Farron became very white, and trembling in every limb. "I thought," she said faintly, " that is, I hoped that it was merely a slight attack that would soon pass away." "It is a fever-a brain-fever--the curse of our family, it seems; two of them have died of it, and poor Alice has horrified me by a presentiment that she will be a third victim."7 "Those fevers always look worse than they really are, I think. Oh! I trust and pray it may not be as bad as you say." "She has not spoken a rational word since she was taken ill, and she looks like a dying girl; but in all her ravings your name is up- permost, and so I have come to you in humble entreaty, to pray that you will tell me why she raves of you, and why she should dread you as she does." "I cannot account for sick fancies," said Mrs. Farron, coldly. "Miss Wharton certainly can have no reason to dread me." "You may see that I am not myself, dear madam," cried her visitor, almost wringing her hands in her excitement; "nothing could tempt -me to come here in this wild way but my memory of what is past. My darling niece, who was more than a daughter to me, was the first one taken in a fever like this, and from that moment, although she recovered partially, she never was the same again."  Mrs. Farron's face lost its hardness of expression, and undis- guised sympathy shone in her eyes. "I am very, very sorry," she said. "I have heard of the lady you name-it was a sad story."- "It was, the breaking of my heart," murmured the troubled woman--" it made me cold and impassive to trivial griefs, for all 17*     39-4      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.             i others seemed trifling after her loss. I would not allow myself to j love her sister Eleanor; so that, when she died, I thanked Heaven  that I had controlled my heart, and spared it the sting of a greater  loss. It now there is something in Alice's poor, wild eyes that brings back Madge, and all the old sorrow seems to press upon my soul again." She paused, and, lookinDg with conffiscd deprecation towards Mrs. Farron, went on in a lower tone- "Pray, bear with me, and do not feel insulted at my words. Did you know Mr. Leland intimately in Paris?" "I knew him there, as I know him here, to be the least valued f or trusted of my friends. I met him by a chance introduction, and he has presumed on circumstances since to claim a friendship that never existed." "You do not trust him, then?"  "Oh, no I I have no right to speak about a subject already decided on; but I have pitied Miss Wharton, and bitterly re- gretted her infatuation, again and again." "Yes, yes--I feared it ; but it is always so with our women-- they are doomed to have their hearts broken by unworthy men. Poor Madge and Nellie met the same fate, and Nettie merely escapes through insensibility. Jane is fortunate in giving up such things completely." "Aiss Wharton is very ill, and you come to me to know why she should name me in her ravings. I will tell you what I should speak of to no one else, because you have come upon me in a des- perate time. There is a trouble in my early life, that I would keep secret from all the world, most of all from my husband. Most sorrows of this kind are living sorrows--mine is, and it haunts me in the form of an old man. Mr. Leland discovered me in conversation with this person; and, with this hold on my silence, he has driven me to madness by his absurd persecutions, and established a tyranny over me that is bitter even to recall."' "And you have only endured this through necessity? and poor Alice is deceived in her doubts and agonizing jealousy?" "She is more than deceived-she deceives herself. She knows,   sIRS. WHTARTON --BECOMES TROUBLED.      395 orshould know, that she had better break her heart in silence, than submit to the living torture of being tied for life to a man that would outrage every feeling of her soul." "She shall not do it; if the whole world should make it a scandal, she shall be saved. My poor 'Madge! it brings it all back on me ; and if any one had known the trouble that was hid in her wretched story, how much we might have spared her!" Surprised, even in her own distracted mind, to note the changed manner of the usually calm lady, and to listen to the tone of con- fidence and retrospect she had adopted in thus pouring out her heart to her, it seemed that. there ;as something yet upon her mind ; for she looked earnestly, and yet nervously, at Mrs. Farrolln, and twitched the corner of her shawl with her trembling fingers. "This morning, as I was standing in the hall with the doctor, the bell rang sharply, and the man answered it quickly, being near the door. Such an odd, little lame person stood there, in a shuf- fling attitude, that, although I was talking to the doctor earnestly, he attracted my attention. He had a bit of paper in his hand, and asked for the mistress of the house, describing me rather than call- ing me by name. I heard what he said, and came forward to ask if it were me he meant. Certainly, he said, and bowed and smiled, and said a great deal, in an odd sort of way, that I didn't quite understand., Then he gave me this note, which was what he carried in his hand. I tried to read it, and, while. I was thus en- gaged, the strange creature slipped away, and was out of sight directly." Mrs. Farron looked at her visitor intently, during this recital; and, evidently much interested by the description of the strange being who had brought her the note, looked at it eagerly, as if to glean its contents. "This was odd enough," Mrs. Wharton went on; " but the con- tents of the paper, you will confess, are odder still. Do not think I am intruding this on your attention without cause; if you will do me the favor to read it with me, you will see why I bring it to you th She spread it out on her knee% and both leant over to decipher     396      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.              i its words. They were not many, but a first glance visibly affected BIrs. Farron. She drew a quick breath, and bit her lips sharply. "Yes, it's Dick Lavaridgle, sure enough," she said to herself, and bent more closely over the writing. It was dirty and dim, but still it was legible, and held these words- "You wouldl like to know of a friend of yours that is yet to the fore, and being that I want to make up for past bad doing, and set them right that trouble has put wrong, I'll tell you now that there is a girl belonginog to you yet living. She's your own flesh and blood, and Richard Law's daughter. The ilegant Frinch wife of "r'. Farron can show her to you if you go to her house. Says you to lher, Where's Addie? and mind what she'll tell you.2 Botlh ladies bent lower over the writing, the one curiously, the other tremblingly, and neither spoke for a time. At length Mrs. Wllarton said--                          A "Is there any thing in this? I am so confused, so shaken out of my old ways by our trouble at home, that I have reason to doubt my own sense in these matters. But you who are calmer and viser, tell me, please, is there any thing in this mystery beyond the foolish nonsense of a half-wise person?" "1i am neither calm nor wise, dear lady. I am like one tossing on a wild sea-the commotiol of my life is so boisterous that all lesser sounds are swallowed in its roar. I must leave you now; but if I am living, I will see you to-morrow, and try and under- stand what this means. This much I can tell you-the same strange creature who brought you this has promised to meet me to-night, anld I must not fail to be there. Your poor daughter's illness, if it saves her from that wretcheld man, will be a merciful blow. For Heaven's sake, do not doubt me. I am most unfortunate in ap- pearinag what I anm not." So saying, and being altogether unlike herself in disconnected and distracted speeches, Mrs. Farron dismissed the lady who had seemed equally changed from her former manner, and who took her unceremonious leave as if they were both too strangely excited by different feelings to keep in sight the gracious usages of society. 9   DICK'S LITTLE STORY.         397 CHAPTER   LI. DICK;S LITTLE   STORY. "WILL ye be quick on yer feet-there's no time to lose!" These words were whispered in Mrs. Farron's ear as she reached the side of the Square directly opposite her own home, and was just about to turn round in search of her looked-for conductor. He had been waiting, it seemed, and now lost no time in setting her an example of speed. Without any sense of weariness, she flew over the ground in his wake, and jostled against people, or ran be- tween them when they were in groups, regardless of their surprise or her own appearance. It was a long way, and every thing seemed wonderfully unreal and unlike itself under different circumstances; the very houses looked strange ift the flying glimpses she caught of the streets she passed through. The street-lamps glimmered with a ghostly light, and the sounds of chance converse struck upon her strained ear threateningly, as bearing upon what she knew was before her. At last, they dived together, all at once, into a by-street, without a light to guide their stumbling feet. It seemed to be a blind alley, ending, as suddenly as it had begun, against a stable-wall at the other end, and to contain no house but the one Dick Lavaridge paused before; and drawing a match from his pocket, lighted a candle he found in a recess behind the door, to show a small passage, out of which ran up a steep, dirty staircase. "Come up afther me,") he said, turning and beckoning to the lady, who stood panting at the foot of the stairs. Instantly she obeyed, and reaching the first landing commenced again. So they went up to another flight, and then began again. On the fourth story they paused, and a small door on their right opened at the sound of their footsteps. A woman, dirty and ill-looking, with bleared eyes and scarred features, peered out, shading a candle she held in her hand. 'Oh, yer come, are ye?" she- asked.  " er oughter hurry up     898       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. when you lave folks as have their own place to see to. Little Jim is minding my shop, and I don't no more trust him nor nothin'. He's sleepy, and if it wasn't for the coughn would be easy enough.  These last words referred to the sick man, who, to verify them, fell illto a fit of smothered coughing, just as they entered, that  threatened to be his last effort in this world. Ite was mnore com- fortably surrounded than the appearance of the house at first promised. There was a carpet on the floor, a lounge by the win- dow, and a sort of easy-chair, full of cushions, near by it. The appointments of the room were all chosen with a view to invalid comfort, and nothing that such care as Dick Lavaridge suggested had been neglected. Mrs. Farron had come up without an in- stant's pause, but now that she had reached the threshold of the room, both breath and strength seemed to fail her, and she stood still, allowing the vagabond watcher to brush out past her, giving her a look of wonder and curiosity as she went by ; and yet she made no effort to enter or come near the bed on which the struggling,  gasping figure fought feebly with death. Tenderly, as a mother raising her heart's darling, did the lame creature lift the ragged head and smooth the pillows that again re- ceived it. A small table, filled with all manner of restoratives, stood close at hand, and from its many vials he selected one, and from that poured liquid into a glass and administered the pungent- smelling cordial to his patient. The effect was almost instanta- neous; he struggled up among the pillows and murmured, in tho strangest, most cracked, and discordant voice- ' Did you bring that girl?" "The lady is here, sir,7' responded Dick, quickly, and he looked over towards the door. "She'll come forrard, if she pleases, and spake till ye, as she promised, to make the mind of a suffering man aisy-like.' "Does she know what her mother had against us?" "Whist, sir I wait a bit now. She's here, and she'll kape to her word, bckase she's a born lady. Will ye come forrard, Miss dear?  Will ye plase step here, that the master can see ye and know ye're not set agin him in yer heart?"   DICK'S LITTLE STORY.         399 1 Slowly, and with most apparent repugnance and distress, she came over the floor, moving as one who dragged her limbs rather than walked. Whien-she came opposite the bed she fixed her eyes upon its foot, and seemed utterly unable to bring them to look upon the face of its occupant. Dick began to' evince signs of uneasiness at this behavior, and keeping his master in view, he edged nearer to her, looking from one to the other with a troubled glance. ' Ye mind the word ye spoke," he said, "and I must have yer promise again that ye'll kape it thrue afdre he opens his mouth to ye. Will ye repate yer promise?" "What promise?  i Her voice was cold and unnatural as that of the dying man, and though he had notdared to look at her be- fore, at the sound of her first tone his eyes leaped up like a strug- gling flame, and held her face with an eager, devouring look from that moment., "Ye said that ye would forgive whativer wrong or trouble there was, wid yer whole heart and strength and truth-ye would iforgit and forgive all that was done agin ye, as ye hoped for Hiven's mercy for yersilf." "I promise it now." "Do ye?  Thin Iiven's blessing light on ye-but ye must mind ycr oath. Sure, it's aiquil to an oath whin it's tuck in a solemn way." "I will swear to forgive him every thing, and I pray and entreat him to turn his soul to repenting and imploring God's mercy." "How can I look for mercy till I know what you'll say to my trouble-for it was all trouble, wasn't it, Dick? No man meant' fairer in good luck than myself, but the devil himself has been after me for bad luck this twenty year i"  "I shall never reproach you--I can say no rnore." "It's her that'sgone that has most to c st up to uz," mur- mured Dick . "Would she iver have give uz a kind word, do ye think?" Mrs. Farron grew whiter and whiter, and s rove to speak before she could utter a word. She came up nearer to the bed and tried     400      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.  to bring her eyes near the face that was following every movement of hers, but somehow the effort was too much for her, and they  E would not come beyond the coverlet that lay upon his breast. My mother said I should some time see you"--she spoke so faintly that her words were scarcely audible--"and she charged me to carry her dying words to you, without losing a syllable of their meaning. You had so completely deceived her," she said, "t that nothing but your own words could have convinced her of your treason. The reason she fled from vou was her own deter- mination never to look upon the face that had wrought her ruin- not ler anger or revenge; she could never cherish either, or she should have been better able to have borne her sorrow, that was all ulnmingled with hatred. She forgave front the first moment that she knew she was an outcast and a dishonored woman, and'I was to tell you that she never once could curse the folly that led her to sacrifice her name and place in the world for you.'  Dick screwed his face into a strange contortion that was like an ? absurd expression of pain, as she repeated these words in a forced, mechanical sort of way; but the man on the bed groaned aloud, and turned hastily to the wall, as if forgetting his former weakness and inability to move. "Oh, Dick, Dick!" he moaned, " there's no use in it; it seems a blacker job this minute to Ihe than it ever did before. I. wish it could be wiped out some way, for it seems to choke me worse than all the rest-though there's a heavy weight of them about my breast, that, somehow, makes breathing a hard thing to do." "' She's give ye her word, and her oath to the back of that; and I'll aise yer mind and spake the truth. Put yer eye on me, Miss, and folly my words; my maning may seem dark to ye at times, but ye must try and remimber our lives have been crooked, and straight doings wouldn't suit them at all at all." Here his lips became suddenly dry, and he wet them, shuffling, as he did so, from foot to foot, as if really unable to stand up be- fore the woman whose eyes were, as he had requested, fixed on his face. "Yer mother was a purty lady, and greatly thought of by her   a   DICI'S LITTLE STORY.         401 own people though she was an orphan. She caime to New York, on her way to spind the summer by the sayshore; and the lady and gintleman that was with her was tuck sick at the hotel where we were living in great style, then being iliganlt people in our way, and nowayst like what we've come to since. There was a party of us. Mr. Farron, yer own husband, was the youngest; but he'd mind it well if he heard it named. Mr. Richard Tracy, and two more, that's not mixed up in the story, made up the party. Yer mother was as purty a girl as I iver looked at; and two of thim fell in love wid he-lthe one that's lying here, and Mr. Tracy. It was a great story, entirely; but she fancied the other, and give this one the cold shoulder. My master had timper of his own, then; and he tried two or three ways- to have his revinge on her for the in- suilt she gave him. But, all he could do, he got no satisfaction, beyant turning Mr. Farron and Mr. Tracy into the bitterest en- imies, by telling thim things to make tliim suspicious of aich other. Mr. Tracy thought yer husband was trying, to be his rival, and thlat broke up the fun altogether; for some went this way and so e that, and all we know'd was that there was an en- gagement b  1tween Tracy and yer mother; and my master swore he'd break il up before it came to any thng. Ye must know that Tracy was d esarving this by more ways nor one, for he had broken up my niaster's game, by which he would kap-e his pockets flush on a little pleas ring like the present, by saying that he held cards like a gambler, nad not like a gintleman at all. We lhad to lave the place, and as sure as yer there we niver had a minute's luck afther it, for we wint down further and further, and before the year was out we were glad to pick up what we could get in a living. It was thin I fell in wid a woman that know'd yer mother--she's dead now, and small loss to her, for she was the cause of all the throuble, by timpting me, ye see. She told me Mr. Tracy called himself Law, and represented himsilf as poor and friendless in every way, except in coming from a dacint stock of peop'e in the ould coun- try. That he had made yer mother run awaty with him unbe- knownt to her people, bekase he was jealors and quare in all his ways, and wanted to be sure that it was himsilf she fancied, and     402      TENT YEARS OF A LIFETIME.            i not the money he had; but even that didn't satisfy hitm; he wouldn't give in till he had kept her a year in a small secret way, to try her devotion to him, the poor fool that he was. Well, he hadn't the sense to kape up the deception, for he would be buying her ileglant gifts and splendid jewelry and the like, and acting strange, as it was his nature to do; one minute saying that she had nothing in the world to depind on but his love, and the next cover- ingo her wid diamonds. At this time the other broth-er, John I think was his name-and lhe was the father of the lad ye mind be- yant at the milliner's-was tuck ailing, and he sinds for him to come, and he wint. Did I tell ye it was in New Orleans we were I then? Well, that's the place he tuck yer mother to whin they ran off together, and whin my master and me found he was gone we tuck the thought to have a bit of fun, seeing how yer mother had scorned uz, and all that. The woman I spoke of hilped uz on, bad luck to her, and we was to give her part of the game; for, forbye the revinge, there was the jewelry, do ye mind? We made up a  tale-a purty good one it was, too--that Law, as she called him, was married in Ireland, and the master got the certificate made out regular by a villain of a praste that had disgraced the Church and left it, and he hid it and a lady's picture in Tracy's clothes that he left behint him. Och, sure, it was great divarsion entirely we had, for we worked every thing to our hand beautiful. Yer mother wint crazy, and it was no work at all to get hold of the rings and chains, and sich like. I stayed by her wid the woman I tell ye of. Sure we were married dacently, to carry on the game all correct, 'and we tuck charge of ivery thing most beautiful. She was like a block of marble whin she came to hersilf, and we tuck her away to Cincinnati, for fear of yer father returning, ye see----. Hold up now, and mind yer oath-don't fly at uz, for ye'll be ruin- ing yer own soul and breaking yer vow, forbye if ye do. Is it water ye want- ? No, I'll not come near ye, niver fear. AIas- ter dear, she's tuck the oath, and she can't go back on it, do ye mind? There, ye can stand agin the wall, and rest yersilf; if ye would rather not look at uz ye nadn't-sure it's all one if ye kape yer word. Is it go on? Sure I'm goin' to tell all I know   - DICK'S LITTLE STORY.       403 and set ye right at last; but yer not to look so wild and glaring in yer eyes or ye'll take the thoughts out of me rmind, and the words won't conle to me. "Where was Hin Cincinnati was it?  Ye were born there, and Blanche was the name she give you; for, says she, the poor dear is pure as the snow itself, and not touched by the guilt of the father. Troth, ye must mind I had a master Ao sarve, or indade it, would seem quare to ye that I could hold me tongue. She tuck to doubting uz,' I think, after that, for she give uz the slip and wint off wid the child, no one knew where, till some way we found out it was in New York she was, with a tMiss Satterly, that tuck a fancy to her. There she stayed till she was afraid Mr. Tracy was on her track, whin she was off agin. We come up with her near the ind, whin you were over four year old, and she was so altered that the mother that owned her wouldn't have knowed her. I had my own hands full then, for my master was in trouble, and what she had wasn't worth trying for, barring a bit of a chain that I sold for her according to the bit of paper I showed you. I saw her so seldom that I can't tell ye how she was doing, or what was her thought, only her face showed there was trouble enough in it.----Will ye take a sup of wine? It would do ye no harm in life, but stop the shivering yer in. Well, I'll not come near ye- But, master dear, she's not tuck back her word, do ye mind! AMiss, I might have kept this to myself, do ye :mind, and niver let you over the thought I had to give that black night that we worked for nothing; but being obliged, by the hard luck that was pursuing uz, to make ye lind uz a hand, I'm trying to make it up to ye.----Whin I saw ye first, beside my half-sister, Kit Donahue, the thoughlt tuck me that I'd seen ye somewhere before. Sure enoughll, aword or two from ye set ye right in my mind, and tuck ye home that night to let the master have a look at ye and see if he'd know ye by the likeness to your mother; 2or I know'd some- thing might happen that would make us nade yer hilp in the house. If I could have trusted you to help uz to the little trunk wid the money, it would have saved your cousin's life ; but ye were not the kind, ye see, and so it brought the black luck on uz agin.--She's     4U       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME.            ! goin'!-the saints kape uz!--she's whiter nor the dead I Hold up, Miss ; why, but ye tuck the brandy I give ye? Whist, master,  it's only fainting-- a woman's way-and there's no fear of her going back on her word and not taking the guilt off yer soul; sure, if she'd raise a word agin ye, I'd choke her as she lies, widout sinse or motion, looking so like the mother that would have been a happy woman if it had not been the bad luck that forced uz to work agin her."                        i CHAPTER    LII. THE MAJESTY OF THE LAW OUTRAGED. A TAP, gentle and timid in its character, was heard at the door, as Dick carried the insensible lady out of the way of its beingr opened, and laid her in the easy-chair. The peculiarly faint sum- nmons was repeated before he had time to answer it, and then it opened slowly to disclose a quiet but observant face that looked ' before the body of a respectably-dressed man following it. "All right," remarked this person, confidentially. "I've been looking you up for some time, and seem to come in very oppor- tunely at last. This lady, who is fainting, is one of the party too, and here you are, all tog'ether., Dick dropped the lady and came quickly, and took up his stand before the bed and its groaning occupant. "Ye'll not lay hands on a dying man, will ye?" he asked, with fierce compression of voice. The calm policeman turned from   contemplating the lady to "I'll be likely to keep my eye on you, my friend, for of all slip- pery customers, I've found you the worst."1 Then Mr. Fry locked the door with quiet briskness, and slipping the key in his pocket, hurried over to the- assistance of 'Mrs. Far- ron, whose recovery he facilitated by loosening her bonnet-strings and fanning her with the ease and handiness of a lady's maid. The   xli D IuAJ6j'.l'X u' O 'Fij JLAW OUTRAGED.  405 moment that consciousness returned to the white face he watched so closely, and her large eyes fastened themselves on his attentive looks, he spoke to her- "You needn't have no alarm, ma'am, but I must have you to complete this case; it don't hold together without you and the milliner and the big Irishwoman, who will be here presently." "Yer out there 1" screamed Dick, defiantly; "they don't know the place at all, and niver heard tell of it in their lives." "Don't get excited, my man. .You see, I've sent for 'em with complete directions, and telling them who they'll have the pleasure of mneeting." "Lie aisy, master dear; no harm shall come to ye--I'll kape it off wid my life. Och, don't be moaning and groaning, whin I'm near ye, ready to die to sarve ye, darlint, as ye know 1" But speech seemed lost to the object of this fondness forever; for no reply but the continued moan came to all his devoted ser- vant's prayers, with his glassy gaze fixed on the figure of the lady at the other side of the room. Observing this, and following his eye, Dick whispered, below his breath, but close to his car'- "Sure ye have her forgiveness ; she gives ye free pardon for all the troubles we were forced to bring on her and hers. She can't go back on her oath and expict mercy hersilf." A sound on the stairs outside, and the quick ear of the police- man discovering it, he hastened to unclose the fdoor. Mrs. Farron rose, but, being weak and fain:, sank back again into the chair, shaking from head to foot. Then she burst into sudden tears, that were passionate and powerful as a thunder- shower, and seemed a  gracious and blessed relief to her over- burdened soul. Still bowed and trembling, she did not look up to see Miss Debby come in, falteringly, followed close by her faithful servant, Kitty Donahue.  But, absorbed as she was in the wild conflict of emotion Dick's narrative had awakened, she could not help hearing h1is frightened cry- "Stand back, if ye love yer life, and give him air!--he's going I Och! can none of yez give him a comforting word?-for lie's going where he'll need it sorely. Master, do ye hear my words?     406      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. It's all right in regard of that matter--ye have her pardon, and her mother's pardon, and she said nothing agin ye in regard of - the cousin. It's all aisy for ye-kape yer mind at pace, darlint. Och, whirra, whirra I what's gone wrong? The world's dark and impty, intirely!--for he's stiff and cold, and the light's all put out for me!"  With a long, low, desolate howl, like the cry of a dying animal, the cripple threw himself upon the body of the man that he had i been true to, through wrong and ruth, preserving faith with, in i crime and violence, to the blackening of his own devoted soul. Living, he had been for years an evil, repulsive-looking figure; and dead, he was terrible to look upon. Every lineament was stamped with terror, abject and horrible; the wide, open eyes, glazing and distended still, were fixed with fearful glaring on the side of the room  where Mrs. Farron sate, and the fallen jaw seemed to gape like a ghastly, chasm in the ugly white face. But, as is often the case in life, this wretch had claimed the care and devotion that better men could scarcely hope for, and in death he was not without passionate mourners.  His daughter, who had  i existed for long years under the dreadful shadow of his crimes, and the poor servirg-woman, whose life had been one long sacrifice to his safety, fell upon their knees beside his unconscious form, with cries of sorrow.                  . "'Wlio that saw ye onst would know  ye now?" wailed Kitty Donahue, as a sort of keening to his memory.  "Straight as a young sapling, with a  forehead white as milk, and cheeks as red as blood. Yer hair was black as a sloe, and yer teeth were shining like crystal. Och! black luck to the sorrow and ruin that altered ye, and the trouble that drew ye to wrong-doing. It's the pride and delight of the gintry ye were, and none of thim fit to hould a candle to ye in good looks or taking ways. Och! sorrow light on the timptations that led ye away and brought ye to a lonely grave in a  strange land at last." "But do ye mind, Kit, he's beyant the law," whispered Dick, exultingly; " there's nlone of thim can lay a finger on him now, by raison of Death being beforehand wid thim-good luck to him.1 i . :   iBAKING OVER ASHES.          407 CHAPTER   LIII. RAKING OVER ASHES. MR. GEORGE CAMPBELL sat in the library of Mr. Ralph Farron, -in company with that gentleman, nearly a fortnight after the death of Dick Lavaridge9s wretched master, in the garret of the old house to which he had conducted Mr. Farron to hear " the rights" of her strange story I  A constitutional enemy to all manner of myst;ery and confusion, Mr. George had endured a great deal of the complication lately, that had reduced him, according to his own account, to a state bordering on terrified idiocy. "On my word of honor, sir, I assure you that a man, approach ing me suddenly at the present time, or commencing conversation with, 'I have to inform you,' turns me stone-cold and senseless in dread of another disclosure. The Lord be good to me, and spare me any further satisfaction in that way, for I believe, if all was known, it would be found that every creature of my name and race took naturally to murdering( and plundering from, their infancy." "Mr. Campbell, you have really had a severe trial in this dread- ful business, but you must forgive me, as an immense gainer in the matter, if I rejoice over its culmination. My poor wife led a life of quiet torture for years, of which I was partly conscious and partly sharer, but utterly unable to save her from. Mr. Siebert alone sus- pected the imposition that lame villain practisled on her, and his only groundwork lay in the bit of paper he founcd in the area, where the remains of the ashes of a pipe were scattered. It was half burnt, but lhe found out these words-'She believes herself your daughter, and will be silent till the death--'  Hoping to make more of it, he continually counselled Blanche t) silence; and that and the memory of her mother sustained her." I Mr. Campbell sprang up, and set his hair fiercely on end with his restless hands. "A pretty set of flunkeys they are, those policemen, to let that     408      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. little devil slip through their fingers as they did. I'd have 'erm up for it, and settle with 'em as they deserve." "No, no, Mr. Campbell, the men are not to blame; the wretch possessed superhuman cunning, and feigned that fit for the purpose of making a commotion and lulling suspicion as to his plan of es- cape. No one knew where he went; but his aptitude in tampering with locks was fully proven in the affair at the milliners'.-I beg your pardon, I hope your poor cousin is better?" "She is no worse at any rate, and has faithful care and watch- ing. Those Tods are devoted to her, and perhaps her clinging to them as she does is all for the best." "You and I should rather rejoice in the escape of Dick Lava- ridge and the improbability of his ever being retaken; there is much that would necessarily transpire at his trial that will never be more than guessed at now, and that only among those who know us best. Revenge agcainst one's own flesh and blood is a poor business, and heaven happily has taken it out of our hands." Mr. George got up again and took to walkingu briskly up and down the room; his face flushed and paled by turns, and his speech [ came in gasps. "I never believed there was much good in the girl's father; he [ was gay, as they call it, in every way, and the story ran that he had broken their mother's heart with his doings, for she died early i and left the girls nothing but a miniature that was the very image of Norah to remember her by. Well, well, she made a lucky escape from him, but I never suspected him of my father's death never--never-never I Fool that I was, not to kndw that there was something under Debby's terrified manner, and the dread she had of taking bite or sup at my table." "Poor lady, she strove hard to do what appeared her duty under the wretched circumstances that controlled her." She did, indeed, God help her; but blood is blood, and my poor father's seems to cry from the ground to me ever since I knew who shed it, and we had best not meet now. Not that I could be harsh or unkind, but I have a sort of rising in the throat that chokes me, and I'm not equal a Christian spirit yet."   RAKING OVER, ASHES.          409 For a time Mr. Campbell indulged his quick walk uninterrupted- ly; presently he came and sat down quietly at his friend's side, and resuming his natural manner began: "When you sent for me in relation to Mr. Tracy, I wrote to you that I greatly disapproved of hurrying things to a climax with a poor, broken-down creature like him. I shall never forget his  state of mind the day he came dragging that lame Tod girl into my offlice, trembling so that he could not speak. What she said was unsatisfactory and guarded inl the extreme, but its effect on him was really awful. As soon as he fully realized that a foul deed had been done, and that his nephew was a victim, it was pitii- able to see him. His voice left him, aud his whole countenance twitched as if in a series of spasms. Strengt forsook his limbs, "he fell down and became like one dying. Ther the lame girl acted like a perfect jewel; for, to tell you the truth, [ was half demented myself with one thing and another. She got ]im into a chair and handled him as easily as if he'd been. a child, while he seemed to be conscious of and yield to her care at once. What he was obliged to know connected with the poor youne fellow's misfortune . had been told him; but all that your wife has learned about their relationship and her mother's sad, sad story (E eaven's blight pur- sue the wretches that worked her wrong!) had best be kept till he is stronger." "Jenny is with him yet?"  "Oh, yes; she fell into place at his bedside as if she had been a born nurse, and belonged to him by inheritan e." "My wife's fever has gone, thank God; she is calm, and very, very happy, but a strange anxiety to see her father possesses her to an extent that I find difficult to cope with. So I sent for you, Mr. Campbell, feeling that you had known more of the poor gentle- man than any one else, of late years, and would tell us how far it  would be prudent to have her go in a meeting nd explanation." As Lr. Farron spoke, a tap at the door interrupted him. Butler presented himself as it opened. "A carriage is coming up to - the door, sir" he said, "and Miss Farron is in it." 18     "O       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "We sent for her," said Mr. Farron, hastily, in explanation- "' she had gone to Niorth Weldon, and we sent for her. Please tell mly wife, Butler."  But his wife was there. She had entered at another door, and was standing behind his chair, pale and beautiful, with the signs of suffering on her face, but the light of -peace in her eyes. No one could have pictured a greater contrast of the dark, wiry little figtre of the milliner's errand-girl, than this tall, splendid woman, whose every movement was grace, and whose dress and bearing were queenly. Yet it was she; and even George Campbell traced the indefinable likeness, as he looked at her, and wondered at his blindness in the past. She put her hand in his, silently, as lie rose to acknowledge her presence, and spoke with the faltering tone of one weak from illness-  "You have seen my father, have you not?"            j "Yes, my dear madam ; and I beg that you will use patience    j and consideration about seeing hilm, too. There is much to be   j taken into calculation before an interview is risked."^  "M' iss Farron, ma'au," announced Butler, at the door; and the tall figure of the lady, in a dark travelling-dress, stood there, a little out of breath, and much fluttered ancl surprised as to the motive of her summons from INorth Weldon, where she was getting up copies of every department of the already established Orphans' Home. Her step-mother advanced to meet lier, and took her hand timidly in hers. Miss Farron gave her a cool embrace, after her style, and seemed still more astonished at the apparent ilm- ipressiveness of the other's manner. Mr. Farron held the door open, and his wife half led their da ughter into the elegant chamber where she had first beheld her, in the pride of glorious youth and beauty; and then shut herself in with the quiet, methodical doer of good deeds, to tell her, for the first time, the true story of her lost love, and of her lost love, and of hr own vagabon d  youth and mysterious after-life. It was a long, time that past, and Mr. Sichert had added him- self to the company in the library, with a bulletin of the well-doingl of the Tod household, before they came out again. Aiss Debby   PRAKING ovnT ASHES.          4" had gone with Kitty privately, the night before, to a twilight funeral. Mr. Siebert -had arranged it all for them ; and the wretched clay was covered over with protecting earth, that merci- fully shielded it from a gibbet. She was very calm, he said, and thlankful beyond speech that all was over. It was a blessing to look at her, and remember the tortured expression that had shadowed itself in her face for so many years. She seemed to take no tioughlt of the unavoidable publicity of the policeman's story ; but, beyond the escape of her wicked father from earthly punishment, she had no other realization. SLe had taken out a beautiful picture, representing him as at young and handsome man, and over it, and one of her mother's, she was entirely absorbed, with Kitty Donahue, in contemplation. That coarse but faithful creature had been an incalculable comnfort to her, and was, as Mr. Siebert confessed, devoted beyond any devotion he ever dreamed of. he had thought it best to present none of the contingencies of the case to the poor milliner ; therefore, Jenny's detention at Mr. Tracy's bedside, or Mrs. Farron's sudden and violent illness after the death-scene, had never been alluded to by the sympa- thetic and considerate family. The Rooucys and the Doyles hlad been up to make inquiries, and K-itty had sA tisfied them, curtly enough, he understood, by saying-"That the master lad come home from the ould country, when he was repoorted dead, Lnld hadt just been discovered in a    dying s Itate. He was at his rest now-the saints be praised!--and which of thim would make bould to say a word agin him?" Nobody hacd, it appeared; and so Kitty was at peace with her friends. Then Mr. Farron told his friends that he had been in the hlabit of receiving notes, which his wife now recognized as being in thil handwriting  of the cripple, directing him to seek information of his wife's true parentage, in New York. That their tone of earnestness induced him to give them credence; and, at first, he went to a place near -the East River, where a woman and her in- fant were remembered by the lady, whose description corresponded.  with Dick's hints; but no further knowledge of them could be traced. Then he had gone on a second journey, with a more cx-     "2      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. plicit clue to guide him, and had gained every possible particular of the poor distressed lady, through an old maid, called Miss Sat- terly, who had been most kind to her lodger, in illness and wretch- edness of every kind. She had sworn to her that her being with her should be kept a profound secret from all inquirers, as to avoid pursuit and recognition seemed the one object of the poor lady's life. Tlhe door opened, and Mrs. Farron entered, at this point of her  husband's recital. She had been weeping, and the tears still  i sprung in her eyes.             - "Where is Julia?" asked he, gently, and took her cold hand in his to lead her to a chair. "She has gone back to North Weldon," said his wife, sorrow-  fully; "it is not that she does not feel, but trouble or sorrow seems a disease that kills her mind, and she has rushed back to the charity plans as a medicine that must save her from madness. She was very ill with me, and I thought at one time she was dying ;. but she woke up, as it seemed, to her old strength, and quietly and determinedly went away." Mr. Farron drew a long, deep sigh. "Ralph,': said his wife, firmly, "I am going to see my father. Mr. Campbell does not know how wretchedly I have felt, when the name has been mentioned, for long years of conscious shame and degradation; but now I lhave a father and I mn ust see him.") "You will not act wisely in doing so now," said Mr. George, persistently. "You must forgive me, but I have just left him, and know how weak and broken up he is." "Let me go and look at him, Ralph--I will not speak." Mr. Siebert rose and added his entreaty-- "It cannot harm him to see her-pray take her there.  "I will do whatever she wishes," replied her husband, and Mr. Campbell shook his head warningly. ,i   A FATHER FOUND AND LOST.          413 CHAPTER   LIV. A FATHER FOUND AND LOST. A   TENT-BED was placed in the incongruous parlor, where Mr. Campbell had first waited on -lMr. Tracy, and there upon it the figure of its master was stretched, like a poor shattered thing as it was. A   great change had been wrought in its surroundings, in the matter of tidiness and absence of dust, by the short, hobbling nurse, who moved about as easily as if her -imbs were faultless. Her patient had become accustomed to her so easily, as to find her indispensable to his, trembling need. His faithful man, by no means jealous of this new power, evidently hailed its existence with much satisfaction.  At the present moment he had been summoned by his master, and was standing respectfully by his bedside, waiting for him to find breath and strength to speak. ' For I'm very weak, James," he said, fainly, " and sometimes my mind will not remain steadily fixed where I want it. Tell me, my good fellow, am I right?  Is it all clear how my poor boy was sacrificed by a heartless wretch for plunder, and never raised his hand against his own life." "Yes, sir; you're entirely correct,. sir. The young gentleman was brutally murdered by the old Irishman and his servant, sir; but he died nobly, no doubt, without a thought but kindness and love for you, sir." "Yes, yes, I hope that. I have had little enough to hope for, but I hope for that." Jenny came near the bed, and .aid her finger warnin^gly on 1her ' Oh I   shall not speak too much--never fear, child ; but it wears me more to think over unsatisfied tho-lghts than to be set right in them."7 "What troubles you now, sir? The doctor has said that excite- ment is dangerous for you." "No doctor understands such af fiction as m'ne has been.  I am     "4      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. getting cured by God's mercy, in bringing darkness to light; but confusion lingers about me still." 4 "Is there any trouble in the past that preys upon you? Forgive me, sir-I mean, is there any thing else that you might have altered or prevented by another course of action?"  She paused, and looked at him, timidly and appealingly. He sighed a deep, long sigh that was almost a groan, and murmured solemnly, as if in heartfelt confession- "Iy whole life--God help me, my whole life! "  He shuddered, and seemed lost to the hope that had sustained him. "It was all wronog, '  he muttered, " all wrong, and I wish I could forget it all." "The lady, whose picture you carry--" said Jenny, slowly and quietly, watching him as she spoke. The face of the sick man flushed suddenly. "James," he said, " come in again, presently-you are very good, and I like to see you." The door closed upon the man thus dismissed, and then he turned to her, and answered-           - "That lady was my wife, Jenny-my beloved and honored wife!" "There is some one here who has come to speak to you about her-it will be pleasant and sad at the same time, to hear what she has to tell you. Can you bear to look into tie past?" "I have never been able to draw my heart or eyes away from it." The lips that spoke shook as they uttered the words, and the hands upon the coverlet trembled too. Jenny placed a glass near his lips, and he swallowed a few drops with evident effect; then she stepped to the door, and presently returned with a veiled lady, who drew near, with evident pertur- bation. "Dare I speak to you, sir?"  She dropped the veil, and with a little cry the sick man sat upright, and fixed his eyes upon her face. ")o my looks tell you any thing?"   A FATHER FOUND AND L ST.         415 "' I do not know--I cannot thinli."  "When vou tried to prove the purity and devotion of a soul that no one could have doubted, did you not fear that some evil would separate you?"         ' "It was mad folly in me--I know it now, but I couldn't see it  then. She was so beautiful, so much admired, that I could not believe myself worthy of the love she gave e--it was to try its reality. I implored her to keep our marriage secret, and leave her people behind her, with no knowledge of her lome." "I am your daughter!"The lady fell doan upon her knees at his side, and told the story of her child's life {ay by day, with the explanation of its mystery, that she had so lately learned from her wronger's lips. He listened with a dawning light upon his face, and neither pal- lor nor wealkness coming over it. Presently he stretched out both hands and held hers, and by and by he dcew her close to his breast, 'and so she went on from page to page of the story of her life, until she reached that portion which invlved her flight, and told him how, when she stood wild and desolato beside the river, with not a spot of hope to turn to, a friend cme forward, like an angel out of darkness, and took her from despair and agony to quiet, security, and peace--     i "-Ie is my husband now, and must be no ore your enemy."  Here the first change came upon him, and lce winced. "Do not name him yet," he prayed, but she went on steadily to the end, and spared no encomiums on his goodness. "I am sorry and sad, and touched to the sofl, but I feel happy; and there are more clouds rolling away and mre light coming," he said, when she paused and put her arms abont him tenderly. Presently he said--"I wish they were all here. Ralph Farron has his grudge against me too, and, mine is gone for him now. I shall never hate or fear again in this world."  "He is here close by. Will you see him, fther?"  "Surely;- and Mr. Campbell, too." They both came, and he received them with gentle dignity, most, unlike his former self.     "6      TEN YEARlS OF A LIFETIME. "Tllere is much to wish undone in every life," lhe said; "I thank GCod that I have lived to seoe mine in a truer light." His daughter- looked triiumplhantlvy at her companions. "I said it would not hlurlm him to see me, you know; and he's better-oh, so much better!" "Much better," he echoed. "Yet for all that," said Mr. George quietly, "if he has a thought or two to raise towards heaven they had better go that way now. As if in answer to this suggestion, the new-found father raised his hands and eyes. "I thank the God of mercy that, for Christ's sake, he hlas had pity on my erring, suffering soul, and rememberingn not the folly tlhat has wrought so much sorrow for my own and others' hearts, has wiped away tears and bitterness forever from me, and brought me from the mists of darkness into light.1" As suddenly as if he had been struck by an unseen blow, he fell back as lie ceased speaking, and without a sigh or a groan his newly lighted sunshine went out on earth forever. CHAPTER LV. ANOTHER MDSUMMER NIGHT. MIDSUMMER night once more, warm  and sultry without--some- ting cloudy, too, and threatening a summer storm--but within tlhe wide, well-lighted servants' hall of the Bellinghtam Square house there was light and gayety and much glow of festive preparation, for Kitty Donahue, in all the importance of hostess, was arranged to receive friends, and in their genial companionship to celebrate the night. Kitty had softened under the influence of comfort and repose into a heavier figure and broader face, both expressive of much greater peace and sympathy with the world than they had ever   ANOTHER -MDSUIMMER NIGHT.         417 before imparted by their appearance. One proof of her present prosperity and content of mind was given in the multiplicity of  colors with which her garments were adorned, so that she shone inl tile full glow of the gay light like an animatad kaleidoscope. A highly respectable-looking mulatto woman, who was, in point of fact, the chief Copok of Mrs. Farron's establishment, was busy in- structing this rainbow-like figure as to the whereabouts of each and every refreshment designed for the evening's entertainment; for Cynthia and her corps of assistants were going out for the night to give Kitty a clear stage, and not humiliate her by their staring presence; since, as she said, " that was the worst of naygurs, they niver were done glowering and showing their grinning teeth at the ways of Christians"' (meaning"Irish), "and thlere was no bearing the guffaws of thim if they onst tuck to laughing." So Cynthia was discreetly going to spend the evening, by permission, at a mar- ried daughter's; and takinag with her other obnoxious individuals of her own color, left the ground free for KitIy's occupancy. "They're in none too much of a hurry," she soliloquized to her- self, when left alone. "Them Rooneys is terrible slow atlyway, but the Doyles is ginerally purty ready. Och, here they are! An' what ways on ye, Mrs. Rooney? Troth, I'm made up intirely to seo ye, and I was afeard to expict ye, seeing that AMary said ye'd hardly make out to come the length of this place. Phil, yer wel- come; and the same'to you, Jimmy.  Mary, yer looking bravely; but who's this? Och, all that iver I met with! Why, it's Sally Rooley, wid her man, come from beyant Pitchburg.  Well, now, I'm jist done for! Why, Sally, woman, how are ye?  Sure, the sight of ye does me heart goodl-and how are ye, Mr. Maloney? Yer welcome, so ye are; and, faith, yer not a day older, Sally, nor whin ye got married and wint off eight year ago.1' "Sure, I tould thim it would be a great start to ye," interposed Mrs. Phil, with much enjoyment of the scene. "Says I, Kitty'll be jist staggered at the sight of ye, Sally; but I know'd ye'd be glad enough, too. Sure, iMr. Maloney says it's a great place iun- tirely, Pitchburg, and he's striving to put Phil in the notion of going." 1 '     "8       TEN YEARS OF A LIFETTME.               "Och, then, Phil, donl't ye be in the way of laving the place ye belong' to. Yer doing' bravely, so ye are, and you'd be flying' in the face of forturne to lave it, so ye would." "I'm not gone yet, Kitty," remarked Phil; "and so ye'd be wasting' yer sorrow if ye mourned for me."  Kitty laughled, and bustling round, took the bonnets and shawls of her visitors out into the next root, while they found themnselves places, and inspecting the apartmlent, hastily exclhanged opinions: "Thlat Kitty'was well off, if she onlly know'd it, to be in sich a place, with ivery ilegance at head and foot, and plinty to take and. lave." Before Kitty could return, the arrival of the Doyles created a diversion, and a second series of salutations were gone into, for, besides the old people, there was young Pat and his wife and his wife's sister, together with sundry outer branches of the Dovle fimlily-tree, that pr(etty well filled the apartmenlt, and lmade admir- ilg comlent and complimentary remark rise to a swellinf note. ' Do ye know what we're saying, Kitty?; said old Mr. Doyle, Christy's son, now nearly bordering on seventy himself. "Ye may as well be hearing it, so I'll tell ye. We all join in thinking ye slhould h1ave a thankful heart to-nig'ht, on account of all that's fillen in yer way. IHere ye are, set off like the Queen of Sheby, il ilegance and splindor, wid one thing dacinter than another, and no want of aiting- and drinkingl of the best at hand to ver call." "True for ye, Mr. Doyle," responded Kitty, solemnly; "and it's truly and humbly thankful I am on more accounts than my owin. Miss Debby is made like the apple of their eye, -and, what is better, she's parfictly aisy and continted wNid thim in ivery way, living indepindent on a little income that's paid to her reglar, from an ould debt to Miss Norah that she know'd nothintg about till it came in the way of restitution. The young mistress, maning Mrs. Farron, ye mind, is like the flowers of May in swateness and kind- ness; and the trouble's gone, so as to lave uz widout a shadow but the mimory of the dark days that's past." "'I'Pm a new-comer, ye know, Kitty," said Mrs. Maloney, from Pittsburg ; "so ye'll excuse me if I ax a question or two. Mary   ANOTIER IMDSUMMER NIGHT.-         419 was trying to make me sinsible of the family changes, but some way I tuck -at confusion listening to her."7 "Well, thin, ye're mighty polite, so ye are,l' remarked Mrs. Phil, with some resentment of her sister-in-law's insinuation against her style of narrative. "Sure, ye might have give the discredit to yer own understanding. I was iverly thought a plain spaker.     "So ye are, Mary dear," said the wily Sally; "it's me's the blundering gander, for I can't tell me own maning. Sure, Kitty, I  meant the travelling in the cars had some way stupefied me, and will ye plase give me a word or two about how things has gono since I left?"' "Well, then, Sally, it's a long story, and not too cheerful a one at that. Ye know'd the old master was dead?"   . !'Trotlh, did I," responded Sally, and she was about to add "'and small loss to him," when she remembered herself and re- strained the expression of opinion. "Mary, got a boy that's well larned to write out to uz all about the trouble, and how the young mistress found her father, and how he died jist whin she was re- joicing over him." Kitty looked stealthily around, and then shading her mouth with her hand, said, in a piercing whisper-           i "Sure, it was all for the best. Mr. Jam-s Kennedy, a nice, well-doing man, that was left a purty little sum by his death, and married Margaret Tod, and does bravely by the family, forbye making a man of Bob, tould me that lhe would have been a com. plete heart-break to her, wid his suspicions and his quareness, if hle'd been spared. The saints be praised, it's all for the best, and sure religion taches uz to bow to the will of Providence." "Is she any ways made up wid her mother's people?" ques- tioned Sally. "Och, now,' cried Mary, with provocation in her tone, " didn't I tell ye, Sally, that the ould lady, Mrs. Wharton, was jist doat- ing on her, and that even Miss Jane thinks she's something beyant the common?'" "Maybe ye did, Mary ; but I'm no worse :.or hearing it again. Where's Aliss Alice?"1-      -      420       TEN YEAR S OF A LIFJ1'ETIAME. "Ah,' said Kitty, sighing, "that was the black story! She  would marry him, ye know, and that in the teeth of prayers and   t warnings. So they wint off to France; for he'dl been striving to   make trouble between the mistress and her husband, so that it was too warm for him here. The Campbells wint at the same time. Mr. George was troubled and through-other in his mind for a while, and so he ups and offs to France wid the whole family. Word was brought back that Mr. Layland had gone off about Miss Lily, and was so foolish in his behavior, that Mr. George   was disgusted wid him, and ordered him- to leave the place. So they parted company ; and it was the ould story over agin. The   [ rapscallion tales the poor creaturc's money, to waste it in wander- ing from place to place, finding out new beauties to admire, 1and gettinag into disgrace himself, forbye throwing his wife into a faver; E for, do ye know, that the poor thing goes down sick, and raving  out of' her mitnd. Och, but she has sowed sorrow for hersilf! but  she wouldn't listen to raison--more be token tlhere's plinty like her, where a man's consarned, it seems." .  "Ye would iverly take a wipe at the min, Kitty," said Phil    i Rooney, laughing. "What's come to that quare little girl wid  the big eyes and the Nake leg?"                  t "Is it Jenny?-sh's bravely. She's up here the night, sitting  i with Miss Debby and kaping her in discoorsc. Troth, the mis-    [ tress trates her as if she were a lady of the land, so she does."  i "There's jist one more, Kitty, if ye plase. Where's Miss Julia,  i the lady that was so kind to the orphans?  She come down Wid a   I missionary to our place, my mother says, and would have it that little Phil was an orphan, bckase he was claning out the gutter iwid ain oyster shell, whin Mary was in the back-yard, wrestling  { through the week's wash."                     i "She's at the same business yet; but she's greatly changed.  She's humbler and swater, and has the saintly look about her that makes her carry comfort to the sick and dying,.   She's jist an angel of love and mercy, and all that was sevare or cold seems    gone from her intircly." "Och, och, it's wonderful, so it is I And that's thim all?"   ANOTHER MDSUMMER NI,3HT.          421 "No; I mustn't forget Mr. Siebert-ye mind him, I know. He used to be 1iving with us years ago, and we were all greatly beholden to him for kindness and good turns." "Faix I mind him well. Sure he was a great friend of Mr. Farron's, I heard; and I've seen thim together many a time." "That was in regard of a sympathy they had for each other, being early crossed in love, they say; but he's looking cheerful and happy enough now, and still lodges wid Mrs. Kennedy. Sure ye must go up the lingth and see the ould lady, Mrs. Tod-she's a cliver cray- ture, and she'll make ye welcome. They've ivery thing comfortable about them, And the mother's jist in clover, wid nothing to do but clash wid the neighbors about ould times. Now, Phil, if ye'll give me a hand, I'll sarve ye out a drop of punch that will warm yer soul up.  Sure it's made of the best of materials, and no scrimping of whiskey-that's not the way in this house. Fill up yer glasses, all of yez, and here's to the owld times and ould friends. What! Here's the mistress!" "Don't rise, I beg of you-you're all heartily welcome." It was Addie that spoke, and she stood in the doorway on one side of her husband,1 while Miss Debby, prematurely old and gray, but good-humored and placid, stood on the other. Every one stood up, and looked partly pleased and partly shame- faced and awkward, as was the manner of the class they belonged to. Seeing this, she came in among them, and going around about, shook the hard brown hands that almost shrunk from the touch of her soft white fingers. "For I'm very glad to see you all," she sdid, ."and so is my husband.  Ah, Ralph, it carries me back to the past, and my first night's pleasuring;;.but I miss the face of kind old Mr. Doyle, your father, sir. He was so gentle and innocently happy that I shall never forget him."  "Long life to ye, ma'am," murmured his gratified and affected son. Mr. Farron came forward and added his warmth of welcome to his wife's. ' We are all friends here," he said. "Kitty, you must let them want for nothingh that will make the evening happier." *             I     422      TEN YEARS OF A LIFETIME. "Sure, it's here tlat all happiness can be found," remarked young Pat, breathless with the effort he made to speak so boldly. "You are right, my good fellow," said the gentleman heartily, and he drew his wife's arm through his and looked perfectly satis- fied with his share of it. Miss Debby waved her hand to them, and all three went away, leaving an ecstatic enthusiasm on the hninds of those they left, only disturbed in Phil Rooney's case by a glimpse he caught of the observant eyes of Jenny Tod in the shadow of the hall.                       t "Och, there she is," he muttered with a slight shudder; ' anud, i och, but she has the quare peering way, wid -her big eyes." ' "Draw up yer chairs and fall to ating and drinking," cried Kitty, I spreading the board with dainties. "The moon's rising, and it'll J be a beautiful night, though it threatened rain. Sure there's  s nothing to kape uz from enjoying oursilves, anld the Lord make us  truly thankful for the chance that's offered, and grateful to thim that finds their comfort in making others happy." THE END,.    
         
      
   
