
    ----CITATION----
        Janvrin, Mary W. (1830-1870). Smith's Saloon, or, The Grays and the Grants .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6394
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
                  THE SALOON. Page 10. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               SMITH'S SALOON; 
               OR, THE GRAYS AND THE GRANTS. 
             
            BY MRS. L. L. WORTH.
             
            
               PUBLISHED BY WARREN AND WYMAN, 
               13 BIBLE HOUSE, NEW YORK.
             
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, By ISRAEL P. WARREN, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 
            
               Stereotyped at the Boston Stereotype Foundry, No. 19 Spring Lane.
             
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            A GENTLEMAN, walking rapidly down the street, was accosted by a little fellow-"Take care, sir. I fell there;" at the same time pointing to a portion of the sidewalk where the ice was worn hard and smooth. 
            Is it not well, in passing along the path of life, to point to those places where others have fallen, and warn our fellow-travelers of the danger? 
            
               THE AUTHOR.
             
          
          
             
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               I. INTRODUCTION TO PEOPLE AND PLACES. 7
                
               II. A PARENTAL MISTAKE. 16
                
               III. BERTIE'S FIRST LIE. 32
                
               IV. EVIL COMPANIONS. 61
                
               V. LITTLE SUSIE'S DEATH. 91
                
               VI. WILLIE GRANT AND HIS SISTER. 116
                
               VII. MORE ABOUT THE GRANTS. 164
                
               VIII. A DARK HOUR. 209
                
               IX. A BRIGHTER DAY. 257
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Smith's saloon, or, The Grays and the Grants 
             
             
            SMITH'S SALOON. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               INTRODUCTION TO PEOPLE AND PLACES. 
               IN the eastern part of Massachusetts was situated the town of Fairfield. Its quiet inhabitants had never seen much of the whirl of business, for the little village had known but one merchant,-the time-honored Elias Witham; who had dispensed his tea and sugar, and various other commodities, for more than fifteen years, always giving sixteen ounces for a pound, and we will venture to add, never having heard that sugar could be sanded, or tobacco moistened to increase its weight. 
               It has been said, that for several years Elias Witham sold the old-fashioned New England rum; but when the cause of temperance began to be agitated, his conscience constrained him to empty every cask into the street, and no more spirituous liquor was, after that, bought or sold upon his premises. 
               The principal street in Fairfield village divided the pretty green Common, leaving on one hand the Methodist church, and on the other the Orthodox meeting-house. It spoke volumes in favor of the spiritual condition of these churches, that the lines of separation were not thus drawn between the two societies. When Rev. Enoch Goodman came to Fairfield, he extended the hand of fellowship so cordially, that it was firmly grasped by his brother across the way, and henceforth the utmost cordiality and kind feeling existed between them. 
               Our story, however, has not much to do with the relative position of these two churches, but with an influence that came from without, bringing with it a curse, rather than a blessing, upon many happy families. 
               It was a great day for Fairfield when the railroad was finished, and the train of cars passed the first time through the town. The pulses of business beat more quickly, and men looked around for places to commence trade. Several new streets soon crossed the old thoroughfares, and, creeping up the hills on either side, gave to the little village a picturesque appearance. It really seemed that a new lease of life had been afforded to the activities of the place, bringing additional comfort and pleasure to its inhabitants. Railroads were but little known in that vicinity, and it was a great curiosity for the country people to assemble at the station and watch the iron steed rushing along with his enormous load, and depositing here and there his living freight. 
               At Fairfield the curious eyes were many, until a new wonder appeared in another direction. A building, formerly used for a small shoe manufactory, was purchased by a man from the city, and, with additions and repairs, soon opened as a public house, styled by the proprietor, a "saloon." 
               As no public house was considered complete unless it furnished spirituous liquor to those who called for it, Nathan Smith filled his demijohns, and placed them within an inner room. This very secrecy spoke plainer than words, that public opinion did not wholly countenance the sale of ardent spirits; but as no voice was heard against beer, or a glass of sweet cider, these ranged side by side with oranges, figs, and every variety ety of confectionery, besides cakes and pies, and various other eatables for the accommodation of passengers in the cars who needed refreshment. 
               The citizens were generally pleased with this new arrangement. It was a great convenience, they said, to be able to get a glass of beer, or a real Havana, and sometimes a lunch, when they needed it, thus bringing, in some respects, city privileges to their very doors. Thus speciously does temptation approach those whom it would lead into ruin. 
               Young America thought it a capital place to spend the long winter evenings. The chess-board, the dice-box, so courteously provided by the gentlemanly proprietor, were constant sources of amusement to the boys and young men of the village. A few mothers missed their sons when the family gathered around the evening lamp, and thought, with sadness, of the change which had come over the spirit of their homes; and some men cast anxious glances, as the sound of street brawls fell upon their ear, lest a son or a brother might be engaged in this new disturbance. But, on the whole, the people were well satisfied, thinking that with their new privileges they must expect some inconveniences. 
               When farmer Gray moved into Fairfield from the State of Maine, this new order of things had just commenced. He purchased a farm in what was called Brookville, a little hamlet nearly a mile from the main village. Mr. Gray would have been contented to remain amid the tall trees and rough lands of his native state; but his wife, an active, ambitious woman, could not endure the thought that her two bright children should be brought up in the backwoods, unknown to the world, and enjoying so few of its privileges ileges. She had a sister married in Fairfield, and she importuned Mr. Gray until he consented to remove to the same town. She also asserted her independence of Brookville, by declaring, at the outset, that her interests should be with the village people. Her children should be educated at the village Academy, and their associations should be with the youth of that place. 
               Mr. Gray was too easy and indulgent to raise any obstacle to this arrangement, although he thought the district school good enough at present, especially as it was within half the distance. But Mrs. Gray carried her point in this, as in almost every matter, but with how much wisdom may be seen in the sequel of our story. About twenty scholars usually attended at the neat little academy building, situated on an eminence overlooking the pretty village of Fairfield. Its healthy location, and the respectability of the place, led some parents in the neighboring towns to send their sons and daughters to this school. But when the convenience of a railroad began to be enjoyed, the number nearly doubled, so that when Bertie and Susie Gray entered the school-room, they encountered the gaze of nearly fifty strangers. 
               Susie was a frail little child of twelve years, although she looked scarcely ten, and the long walk often unfitted her for close study, so she made little progress in her class. 
               Bertram, or Bertie, as he was usually called, was a stout lad of fifteen, and being quick to learn, and of plain, straightforward manners, he soon became a favorite with his teacher, and received many tokens of approbation for perfect lessons and general good behavior. 
               When Smith opened his saloon, the boys thought is an excellent place in which to spend the hour between sessions, especially as those who came from neighboring towns in the cars could be there supplied with a lunch, which took the place of a regular dinner. 
               For a time, Bertie kept away from this saloon. His little sister was timid, and a stranger, and he did not like to leave her to go with the boys. This elicited many sneering remarks from them, but Bertie did not care for these while he kept his heart pure with the noble purpose of doing right. He sometimes wished, however, that he could attend school where he could go home to dinner. 
               Alas! could he have retained this simplicity of desire, he would have shunned many snares and temptations which afterwards proved most ruinous to him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               A PARENTAL MISTAKE. 
               NOW, children take your dinner and be off to school," said Mrs. Gray, her hands busily employed about the morning work. 
               "But, my dear, why hurry them?" asked Mr. Gray. "It is nearly two hours to school time. Surely they can not need so much time to walk a mile." 
               "Because I am very busy this morning, and want them out of the way as soon as possible," was the mother's reply. 
               "I wish we could come home to dinner. Why can't we to-day, mother, 'tis so cool?" queried Bertie. 
               "The Fairfield Relief Society will meet here this afternoon, and I can not have you about, turning everything upside down," replied his mother. "Besides, I shall have so much to do to-day, I can not stop to get dinner for all." 
               "I want a better dinner than that," said the boy, glancing contemptuously at the slice of sweet cake his mother laid upon the table. 
               "Husband, give them some money, and let them go to Smith's saloon and get something to eat. I've nothing better to-day," said Mrs. Gray, hurriedly. 
               "Can't I have one of those little pies Martha made yesterday?" and Susie looked appealingly toward her mother. 
               "One of those tarts? No, child. I shall want every one of them for tea." 
                
               But you will not send that child away without something to eat, Mary?" expostulated Mr. Gray. "She has not taken a mouthful of breakfast. Can't you give her a cup of milk?" 
               "No; every spoonful will be wanted for custards. I tell you, Mr. Gray, I have so much to think about this morning, I can not stop to indulge a dainty child's appetite,"-and Mrs. Gray grew impatient. 
               The father gave his son some money, and with many misgivings, told him he might go to the saloon and buy something for himself and his little sister. Mr. Gray had heard fears expressed that Smith sold something stronger than beer and cider, and he needed not the testimony of others to convince him that the company often found there was not of such a character as he would choose for his boy to associate with. Under present circumstance, however, it would have been useless to speak of these things, so he remained silent. 
               Clinging to her brother's hand, Susie made her way through a crowd of noisy boys into Smith's saloon. 
               "Buy me some candy, Bertie," she whispered, seeing the tempting array of sweets within the deep window. 
               Bertie knew this was not food, yet he could not resist the temptation, or his sister's importunity, so the money his father gave him for his dinner, was spent for nuts and confectionery. 
               "Halloo, Bert! Tied to that girl's apron strings, or can you take a game of ball? We are in for it, on the Common," and several boys appeared at the door. 
               Bertie thought he ought not to leave his sister, yet he would like to have a game. The morning was cool, and there was ample time. Giancing through the open door, he saw Annie Lane and Minnie Stow, and bidding Susie go with them, he was off for a game of ball. 
               In half an hour the boys returned, weary, and very thirsty. 
               "Now for a glass of beer!" exclaimed Ned Taylor. "I'm as dry as a contribution box." 
               Several tumblers of beer were swallowed by the thirsty group. 
               "Not dry, my lad?" and Smith looked inquiringly toward Bertie, the only boy who stood aloof from the sparkling liquor. 
               Bertie was a novice in the art of deceiving, yet he colored deeply, as he replied, "I have no money, sir." 
               "Oh, is that all? Well, I guess I can afford to give you a glass of beer for once," and the foaming cup was passed to the thirsty boy. 
               The fact was, Bertie had never drank beer, or any stimulant in his life. "Water, pure water for boys," was his father's motto. But Bertie was very thirsty, and the boys were looking on, and he did not like to refuse the kind offer of the obliging proprietor, so the beer was drank, and Bertie thought it very good. But soon he began to feel strangely. He knew it was nearly school time, and most of the boys had left, yet still he lingered. 
               Ned Taylor and Ben Bailey proposed a game of chess. Bertie grew intensely interested in watching the game, until duty absolutely forbade any longer delay. 
               "Come this noon, and I'll learn you to play," said Ned, as they left, while several other boys, who did hot attend school, remained to finish the game. 
               As they entered the school-room, the three were summoned to give an excuse for tardiness. It was the first time Bertie ever stood before the school a delinquent. His head ached, and he felt angry with himself for staying away; yet he could give no reasonable excuse for his absence, consequently he was silent. The teacher, knowing full well the character of Bertie's two companions, and reading in the lad's downcast, guilty look a true statement of the case, sentenced them to close study, during the usual recess, for the next two days. Poor Bertie was tasting the bitter fruits of evil companion-ship, yet he failed to learn wisdom, for noon found him again at Smith's saloon, bending eagerly over the chess-board, learning from Ned Taylor the mysteries of the game. 
               The proprietor did not again offer him beer, but Ned Taylor did; and when Bertie demurred, saying it made his head ache, his young companions laughed, and almost before he was aware, he had drank two glasses of the beverage. The want of proper food, and the effect of stimulants upon a system wholly unused to them, unfitted him for study during the afternoon, and the teacher was surprised to find that night three marks for imperfect lessons against the name of Bertram Gray. 
               He and his little sister returned at night to find the house full of company, and Martha, the hired girl, tired and fretful. Bertie declared he must have some supper immediately, and Martha as stoutly affirmed she could not stop to get it. In order to quiet his importunity, she filled his hands with bread and cold meat, and sent him from the house. Susie followed, too sick to eat, yet she contrived to swallow a little. 
               "Susie, look here," and Betie held up two cranberry tarts. 
               "Oh, did Martha give you those?" and the little hands were extended to grasp them. 
                
               "No; but then you know they belong to us. They were cooked in our house." 
               The little girl stepped back, and resolutely put her hands behind her. 
               "Don't you want them?" asked Bertie. "I thought you loved them." 
               "Oh, Bertie, so I do; but mother said I must not have them." 
               "But that was this morning, Susie. They have taken tea now, and these were left, so I just took them for you." 
               "But mother didn't know it," persisted the child, "and it would be wrong." 
               "Nonsense! Here you have been without anything to eat all day, and I stole into the dinning-room just to get something good for you, and now you will not take it. I'll not get you anything again, if you never eat." 
               This was too much for poor Susie. Throwing herself beside her brother, who sat upon the grass, she clung to him, crying as if her heart would break. 
               "Don't blame me," she sobbed. "It would stain the beautiful garments, and I can not, oh, I can not!" 
               Bertie looked at her, thoroughly puzzled. "You haven't on your best dress," he said. 
               "Not that. not that," she whispered; but all that Bertie could do was to let her weep. 
               After a while she became more composed. There was a light in her eyes Bertie had seen there but few times. 
               "What did you mean by the beautiful garments?" he asked. 
               "Wouldn't you laugh at me, if I should tell you?" asked Susie. 
               "No, Susie. Why should I?" and the boy could not but feel serious as he looked into those bright blue eyes, now radiant with heavenly light. 
               "The Bible tells us of a great king, who sent forth invitations to his son's wedding. All must wear beautiful white garments, nice and clean. All must be ready when the time came, or they could not go in. Now, Mrs. Ames, my Sabbath-school teacher, says that great king is God. He has sent these invitations to us. The beautiful garments are our hearts and lives. They must be white and clean from sin, and if we ask Jesus, and desire it with our whole hearts, he will make them so. But we must be very careful, for every wicked thought, wrong word or action, will leave a stain upon them. Now, don't you want to go, Bertie, and see Jesus, and wear the beautiful garments he will give us?" 
               "But you do not believe all good people live without doing wrong, do you, Susie?" he asked, adroitly evading her question. "I guess some have a great many stains upon their garments." 
                
               "But if they are real good, they will be very sorry, and go right to Jesus, and he will wash them all out." 
               "I don't see nay danger in doing wrong then," replied Bertie. "We can be sorry any time, and just go and have them all washed out." 
               "But there wouldn't be much sorrow about it, if we felt so," said the child, thoughtfully. "Jesus tells us to pray, 'Lead us not into temptation;' and if we just say the words, and don't act our prayers, it will not do much good. If I was poor, and dirty, and ragged, and had no home to go to, and some one should dress me up in nice new clothes, and bid me wait a little until he was ready to take me to his beautiful home, I think I should be grateful enough to be careful just a little while. I know it is hard sometimes, Bertie, for to-day, when Annie Lane and Minnie Stow ran away from me, and then laughed, and called me a baby, because I could not help crying, I almost hated them. I know it was dreadful, but I said a little prayer in my heart, asking Jesus to forgive them, and me too, and then I loved them, and gave them some of my nuts and candy." 
               Bertie looked away, but said nothing. 
               "I was thinking to-day," Susie continued, "that going with bad boys and girls will bring stains upon our garments, unless we are very careful. Don't you think, Bertie, it is a dirty place at Smith's saloon? I'm afraid," and she wound her arms lovingly around her brother's neck, "you got some bad stains there to-day, or you would not have had so much trouble at school." 
               "My head ached, and I could not study, Susie," and the boy colored deeply. 
               "Does your head ache now?" and Susie passed her hand caressingly over his brow. 
               "Some;" and Bertie drew the child close to his side. There they sat, until the evening shadows began to gather. Presently he looked down at the little upturned face. It was very pale, and the eyes were closed in sleep. Brushing back the clustering curls, already damp with the falling dew, he gently carried the little girl to her chamber, and laid her upon her own cosy bed. 
               In his own chamber he sat for a long time, thinking, thinking. He was thoroughly ashamed of the day's adventures. His conscience upbraided him for yielding to temptation, and he longed to pour the story of his sad fall into some sympathizing ear, and to ask aid in keeping the half-formed resolutions which struggled for birth within his soul. 
               "Oh, if I was only like Susie, so afraid of doing wrong, so patient and gentle, yet so firm in the hour of temptation," he soliloquized. 
                
               Once he thought of what she said about asking Jesus to make our hearts clean and white, but he did not feel like it, for he said to himself, "Jesus would not hear me now, when I have been so wicked. I must try and see if I can not o better first." 
               Poor child, he saw not the ear bending low to catch the first whisper of a truly penitent heart, nor the hand already extended to lead him in the paths of purity and peace. So he lay down to dream of chessboards, imperfect lessons, and beautiful garments. 
               He was awakened by the sound of foot-steps, and the murmur of voices in his sister's chamber. Hastily dressing, he crept to the door. Around the little bed stood his father and mother, and good Dr. Rea. Poor Susie lay, looking wildly from one to another. Her face was flushed with fever, and Bertie heard her say, "I can not, oh, I can not; it would stain the beautiful garments." 
               He could hear no more, but rushed back to bed, and wept himself to sleep, deep amid the pillows. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               BERTIE'S FIRST LIE. 
               WILL she die, mother?" and Bertie's lip trembled as he asked the question, after listening to his mothers' account of the night's watching. 
               "Oh, dear, Bertie, I don't know. Scarlet fever is a dreadful disorder. I hope you will not have it," and the poor woman burst into tears. 
               "Oh, if I should have it, and die!" Bertie repeated, again and again, as he walked along to school. He felt sure that if Susie died she would be ready to go and be with Jesus. Her garments were all white and clean, but his were stained with sin, unfit to appear in before the great Master of the feast. 
               "I'll begin this very day," he soliloquized. "I'll do better. I'll drink no more beer, that's certain, then I shall get my lessons perfect. I'll never, never say any bad words again," and the perspiration started as he thought of an exclamation he had used in imitation of Ned Taylor the day before. 
               Yes, I'll do more. I'll read my Bible every night after I go up stairs, and I guess I'll pray." 
               Bertie almost wished he was once more a little boy, and that his mother would hear him say his prayers, as she did as long ago as he could remember. But, alas! those innocent days had passed, never to return, and he must now act for himself, and give an account for himself unto God. These thoughts weighed heavily upon his mind through the day, rendering him sad and silent. The boys made merry over his "piety," as they termed it. 
               "He's afraid that little chit of a sister will call him up to say his catechism to-night," sneered Ben Bailey. "Say, Bert, didn't she make you say your prayers last evening?" 
               Having no real love for the principles of his sister, Bertie was vexed beyond measure that they should judge so correctly concerning her influence over him. Yet he dare not yield to temptation when Ned Taylor invited him to spend the intermission at Smith's saloon, lest his little sister should be dying at home. 
               Evening found her more comfortable, so that her brother's fears were allayed. She had slept a little, was more composed, and at times conscious. She had inquired for Bertie, but his mother's fears debarred him from the sick room. 
               Mrs. Gray was in Susie's chamber, Martha busy in the kitchen, and his father not yet in from his work, so that Bertie was alone in the little sitting-room, watching the crimson clouds as the sun sank lower and lower in the western sky, when a low whistle arrested his attention. Leaning from the window, he saw a group of boys beneath the old elm, which stood only a few rods from the house. He was sure that he saw Ned Taylor and Ben Bailey, and his heart beat quickly, for he felt a tough of pride that such large boys should come so for to meet him. 
               In a few moments he was with them, and, sure enough, they had come to invite him to accompany them back to the village. 
               "I'll see what the folks say," was Bertie's reply to this proposition, but Ben Bailey interrupted him. 
               "Are you such a baby that you can not leave the house without your mother's consent?" and a sneer passed around the little group. 
               "I wouldn't be tied to my mother's apron strings." remarked one. 
               "Perhaps he's afraid he shall take cold if he goes out after the dew falls," said another. 
               "I guess he's growing pious, and we had better be off, boys. Religion is contagious, you know," and Ned Taylor led the way down the village road. 
               Bertie was no coward, yet he was not impervious to ridicule. He knew he might safely leave home without asking permission, for he had often retired to his chamber thus early to study his lessons, and he did not think any one would be uneasy his account. 
               These thoughts passed rapidly through his mind, as Will Watkins laid his hand upon Bertie's arm, and entreated him not to expose himself to further ridicule. At length he yielded, slowly following the boys, and listening to Will's account of an adventure in the city a day or two previous. 
               "Give me your hand, old fellow! Got the real grit, after all," remarked Ned Taylor, as the two boys came up with the rest of the party. 
               "Guess I wouldn't have worn out quite so much shoe leather, if I had not thought so," responded Will Watkins. 
               Will was from the city, and was denominated by the country people "a fast boy!" His father had sent him to Fairfield to live with an uncle, hoping thus to shield him from the temptations incident to city life. His superior knowledge made him quite a hero among the boys, and this fact gave an additional relish to the flattery, which fell upon the ears of poor misguided Bertie. 
               Instead of going directly to the village, they now took a cross road, and soon arrived at a large farm-house, about half a mile from the Academy. 
               After a short consultation, they proceeded to the orchard, a little distance from the house, and began to help themselves to cherries. Bertie hesitated, but was informed by Watkins that farmer Grant had invited them to a feast of cherries, which they were about to accept. Bertie had heard this invitation alluded to by the teacher, and had looked forward with pleasure to the time specified by Mr. Harmon; but supposing some new arrangement had been made, he joined his comrades readily in partaking of the fruit. 
               Having satisfied himself with eating cherries ries, and filling his pockets, Will Watkins stole cautiously toward the house, and brought from the piazza an old-fashioned arm-chair, which he secured firmly to the limbs of the tree, leaving in its seat a huge stuffed owl, apparently glaring in dismay at the dismantled condition of the two cherry trees. For they had not been content with disposing of the fruit, but many large branches lay scattered upon the ground. This chair was usually occupied by the old farmer during his leisure hours, and the idea suggested by its present occupant wrought powerful upon the risible faculties of the youthful spectators. This proceeding awakened the suspicions of Bertie, but his fears of ridicule, and his share in the guilt, sealed his lips in silence. 
               The deepening twilight warned Bertie to return home, if he expected to ready entrance into his father's house; but his companions panions declared it was not to be thought of until they had visited Smith's saloon. Bertie would have gladly avoided this part of the programme, but the same fearful tempter-ridicule-thrust him still further down the down the road to ruin. 
               Once at the saloon, he was induced to follow the example of his associates, and order a glass of lemonade. A sly wink from Will Watkins added a quantity of whiskey to the beverage, and being sweetened by a liberal hand, the addition was not detected until its effects began to be apparent on one unaccustomed to such potations. 
               Happily for Bertie's parents, they did not unclose the already barred door when he returned at a late hour that night; but kind-hearted Martha led the half-drunken boy to his chamber, where nature relieved his stomach of its unnatural burden, and threw the mantle of sleep over his weary body and troubled spirit. 
               Martha was sadly alarmed. "Sure he's ailing just like his sister," she murmured to herself. "The holy Virgin presarve us, if they should both die!" 
               But Mrs. Gray had given orders not to be disturbed unless Susie was worse; so the poor girl watched with the sick children until the morning light brought consciousness to Bertie's mind. Then he begged so hard, that Martha should say nothing about the night's adventure, that she reluctantly promised silence, especially as he assured her that eating too many cherries was the cause of all his sickness. 
               But his own conscience was not so easily satisfied. Where now were the resolutions of the day previous? Could he read his Bible and pray, with the sins of the past evening starting him in the face? Guilt made him ashamed, and like Adam he fled from the Being who would proffer him aid in the hour of temptation and guilt. 
               As he entered the school-room that morning, the curious glances of Will Watkins and Ned Taylor brought a flush to his pale face, and he half resolved to have nothing more to do with these boys. But he remembered he was now in their power, a companion in their misdoings, and exposed to the same condemnation, if all were known. 
               The morning session was but just commenced, when farmer Grant entered, and after a private consultation with the teacher, thus addressed the school:- 
               
                  "MY YOUNG FRIENDS: On my farm, a short distance from this place, I had this year four cherry trees, well laden with fruit. Two of these I had set apart in my own mind for use of this school, intending to invite you to my house as soon as the cherries were sufficiently ripened. But yesterday, while I was away with my family, some evil-minded persons defrauded you, as well as myself, by stripping those trees of their burden, and otherwise injuring them by breaking their branches. I could not feel satisfied, however, in allowing you to lose your anticipated treat; so my family and myself, not willing to fail in our purpose altogether, will except you and your teacher this evening, after school hours, to hare with me in what remains, after the depredations of last evening."
                
               Mr. Grant then bowed himself out, leaving some portions of the school rather crest-fallen, and not altogether easy at the new turn affairs had taken. 
               "The old fool!" exclaimed Ned Taylor, as soon as he was out of the teacher's hearing ing. "Who wants to go there and stuff himself with cherries to-night?" 
               But Will Watkins was in an ecstasy. "A Benjamin's portion!" he exclaimed. "We must be beloved brethren, surely." 
               "But you don't think of going?" asked Ned, with unfeigned astonishment. 
               "Surely I do," answered Will, "and shall behave myself like a gentleman. Don't you see the net spread for our feet?" he asked. "If we back out of this, the old gentleman will conclude immediately we are the guilty party. The old fox will have to rise early in the morning to catch me." 
               This was a new thought for Bertie. He had been debating in his own mind what excuse he should give for staying at home, for he could not endure the idea of going; he felt the cherries would choke him if he attempted to take one. But here was a new difficulty, which he was not quite prepared to meet. He did not like to expose himself to suspicion by staying away; yet he was not hardened enough to brave it out like Will Watkins. Bertie feared he should fail if he should attempt it; so of two evils he thought to choose the least. He was meditating upon these things when Mr. Harmon addressed him, as he was leaving the house after the school was dismissed for the day. They were alone, as Mr. Harmon remarked, "I shall see you this evening at Mr. Grant's, Bertie." 
               "It will be uncertain," the boy replied. "My sister is very sick, and I had better stay at home." 
               "Is she worse?" and Mr. Harmon laid his hand sympathizingly upon Bertie's shoulder. "I thought she was better." 
               "She is better, sir; but I may be wanted at home," and Bertie colored deeply. 
               But you were away last evening. I heard the boys say you were with them," and Mr. Harmon's eye was upon the lad. 
               Bertie trembled, but made no reply. 
               "Do you know anything of this unfortunate affair, my son?" and Mr. Harmon spoke soothingly. "I do not mean to ask if you are guilty. I can not believe that; but do you know anything about the loss of Mr. Grant's cherries?" 
               Here was an opening for Bertie. He could now step back into the paths of truth and virtue, or he could rush onward upon the dark mountains of sin and transgression. One word of confession, of explanation, would have restored his peace of mind, and have secured for him the aid of a godly man in the temptations which were assailing him; but the words of Will Watkins rang in his ears; "Don't you see the net spread for your feet?" and he no longer regarded Mr. Harmon as his friend, but one endeavoring oring to entrap him in the net of self-condemnation, and he answered promptly,- 
               "No, sir. I know nothing about it." 
               This was enough for Mr. Harmon. He had never found occasion to doubt Bertie's word, and the kind teacher would not wrong the boy by doing so now, although appearances might be against him. 
               Thus they parted, Bertie to go home laden with new guilt, and Mr. Harmon to devise means to unravel the mystery which hung around the loss of Mr. Grant's cherries. The teacher felt almost sure that some of his scholars were connected with this affair, and when Mr. Grant proposed renewing the invitation, Mr. Harmon hoped that kindness would elicit a confession, or circumstances would betray the guilty party. 
               Most of the boys were present that evening at Mr. Grant's. Even Bertie thought he had better attend after his conversation in the school-room, lest his absence should awaken suspicion against him. 
               It was very hard at first to receive the kind attentions of Mr. Grant's family. He ate very few cherries, and avoided Mr. Harmon when possible. Not so with Will Watkins. He ate cherries voraciously, talked incessantly, and denounced, in no measured terms, the depredations of the previous evening. Mr. Harmon's eyes and ears were open, and when he left the ground he carried in his pocket substantial proof against one of his scholars. 
               The next morning, after prayers in the school, Mr. Harmon quietly held up an invory-handled penknife, and asked if the owner was present. Every eye involuntarily turned toward Watkins, but not a word was spoken. That young gentleman sat unmoved, and unabashed. 
               "It has the initials W. W. engraved upon it," continued Mr. Harmon, "and I need no one's testimony to assure me to whom it belongs; but if the owner will manfully come forward, and inform me where he last used it, he may save himself and the whole school some trouble." 
               "It resembles my knife, Mr. Harmon," said Will. "I recollect using it under Mr. Grant's cherry tree last evening." 
               "Very well, Will," replied Mr. Harmon. 
               "Then you are sure this is your knife?" 
               Will stepped forward, and after a careful examination, pronounced himself the owner. 
               "I think you are right, Will," continued Mr. Harmon, still retaining the knife, "but in one important particular you must be mistaken. I found it under Mr. Grant's cherry tree before you or any other boy had arrived; so you could not have used it there last evening." 
               There was a fearful silence throughout the school-room. Even Will, for once, had nothing to say. 
               "Were you there night before last?" asked Mr. Harmon, abruptly, looking sternly at the lad. 
               Will's lip curled derisively. "If you are disposed to think so meanly of me, Mr. Harmon, I shall leave you to prove your accusation;" and, bowing politely, will took his seat with an air of injured innocence. 
               Mr. Harmon looked troubled. "This affair is assuming a serious aspect," said he. "I have reasons for fearing some of my scholars were engaged in Wednesday evening's depredations. If so, I hope Mr. Grant's kindness will elicit a free and full confession. He is not the man to desire the punishment of a penitent offender; neither would I hesitate to take by the hand one who was truly sorry for his sin. But the time may come when such lenity can not be extended to you. If any one present is desirous of making a confession, I would invite him to arise." 
               One only stood up. 
               "Well, Johnny Sprague, what have you to say?" asked the teacher. 
               "I was at Mr. Grant's Wednesday evening," was the subdued reply. 
               "Why did you go?" asked Mr. Harmon, kindly. 
               "Because, sir, I was informed a new arrangement had been made, and we were expected that evening." 
               "Who gave you such information?" asked Mr. Harmon, with surprise. 
               "Will watkins, sir." 
               "You were not alone?" queried the teacher. 
               "No, sir." 
               "Can you give us the names of your companions?" suggested Mr. Harmon. 
                
               "Please excuse me, sir. I would rather not do this, unless necessary." 
               Johnny was excused for that time, and the teacher asked if any others had been informed that Wednesday was the day appointed for their visit. Two others stated that they were there, deceived by information imparted by Will Watkins; but the rest of the boys remained silent. 
               During this conversation Bertie dare not look up. The lie he had told Mr. Harmon bound him to his seat, and set a seal upon his lips, rendering a confession impossible without exposing him to a still greater condemnation. Yet he felt sure the truth must come out, and the shame and confusion which covered his face with blushes spoke more plainly than words of the guilt he felt. 
               It was only when the whole affair became known, and Will Watkins expelled from school, that to save himself from a like fate, he stood up with Ned Taylor and Ben Bailey, and confessed his guilt before the school. But by the course he had taken, he felt he had for ever forfeited the confidence of his kind-hearted teacher. Mr. Harmon was ever gentle toward the erring boy, and sought many times to bring him back to the paths of virtue and happiness; but Bertie stood aloof from all his efforts, choosing those associates whose influence tended to draw him still downward to ruin. 
               As the winter approached, Bertie was away from home more and more. Coasting and skating, fun and frolic, occupied most of his time out of school hours, not a small portion of it, however, was spent at Smith's saloon. 
               "Some rare fun, to-night," whispered Ned Taylor, as they left the school-room one cold winter's day. "All on hand!" and she signal passed from one to another. 
                
               "What's up to-night?" asked Bertie of his cousin, Charley Mason, as they walked up street toward Smith's that evening. 
               "Oh, you know, if Ned undertakes, there'll surely be fun," was Charley's reply. Then followed the outlines of a plan, which Bertie was to keep secret. 
               A large number of boys had already assembled at the saloon when Bertie and his companion arrived, and among them a poor, half-foolish fellow, was singing, with maudlin air, a familiar ditty. 
               "Ten cents all around," said Ned Taylor, addressing the new comers. 
               Past experience had taught Bertie that money would be wanted, and being low of funds himself, he had managed to extract enough for this evening's entertainment from his father's purse. 
               The money thus collected was put into the hands of the proprietor "to pay expenses," as it was politely termed, but in reality to furnish stimulants for poor Tommy Jones, that he might be induced to make a fool of himself, and thereby provide amusement for the boys. Once Bertie would have shrunk from such business, but familiarity with such scenes had hardened his heart and confused his ideas of right and wrong. 
               "It is only for a little fun," he thought, when some qualms of conscience made him hesitate, as he saw the increasing hilarity of the poor inebriate. "The poor fool will be drunk at any rate." 
               Near the close of the evening Tommy's staggering footsteps were turned toward home. The boys kept at a distance, speaking low, as they slowly advanced, with many a sly insinuation that something more was expected. 
               From the highway to the cottage where Tommy dwelt with his two maiden sisters, the snow lay deep and heavy for several rods. Over this, rather than shovel a way, the shiftless man had daily traveled to the little dilapidated barn, until a path had become hardened, leaving beneath his walk several feet of snow. Near this path, on one side, the wind had curiously wrought an excavation while the snow was falling, leaving the bank sharp and almost perpendicular. It was but an hour's work for two strong boys, intent on mischief, to remove the snow at this place from beneath the path, so as to leave a thin surface, insufficient to bear any one's weight without precipitating him into the hollow underneath. 
               Singing and shouting, poor Jones drew near his cottage home, when suddenly this noisy mirth was exchanged for oaths and curses, gradually dying away until nothing was heard but low groans and the voices of the half-frightened sisters. 
                
               "I certainly heard him, Betty, as he turned down the lane; where can be have disappeared?" and the anxious sisters peered cautiously through the little low, open door. 
               It was a bright moonlight night, and the boys, having taken a shorter course, were secreted behind the protecting shadow of an old shed. 
               Bertie was frightened, and whisperingly proposed going to their assistance, but Ned Taylor held him back. 
               "A pretty mess you would make of it," he said, under his breath. "He's only caught in our trap. Those old crones will soon have him out." 
               Scarcely were the words uttered, when the two sisters appeared, and with some difficulty succeeded in dragging their brother into the house. 
               On the way home, Bertie's conscience upbraided him for being accessory to such an unfeeling deed. All night he dreamed of pitfalls, of broken limbs, of horrid groans, and the morning light found him unrefreshed, and with a dim sense of self-degradation. 
               On his way to school, he was greatly alarmed to hear that Tommy Jones had been severely injured, and some one was suspected of foul play. 
               In vain Mr. Harmon examined his scholars. Ned Taylor and Ben Bailey denied all knowledge of the affair. Bertie remembered the cherries, and was more cautious: he only said that he had nothing to do with it. 
               The rest of the boys followed his example, endeavoring to satisfy their own minds that they were entirely innocent, because they did not actually dig the pit into which poor Jones fell,-this having been performed by. Ned Taylor and Ben Bailey. 
                
               Several persons had heard Tommy go home, singing as usual, and thought it uncalled for to make such an ado over the fall of a half-drunken fool. But Esquire Marsten made quite a stir, and frightened the boys not a little, by declaring if Tommy died he would search far and near to bring the culprits to justice. 
               Nathan Smith, who planned the whole affair, kept his own counsel, bidding the boys hold up their heads fearlessly, and all would go well. 
               After a time, as Tommy did not die, the excitement blew over, but there was One who kept a strict account, and will "bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil." 
               After Tommy got well, he would never drink ardent spirits again. To his mind, although he could tell no correct story, his disaster was connected with Smith's saloon, and the liquor drank there, so that he gave both a wide berth ever after. 
               One day, when Tommy, of necessity, was passing the saloon, Smith presented a tempting array of cake and pies, and invited the foolish fellow to a face collation. 
               "No, no, me won't have some!" he shouted. "Bad man! bad man!" he continued, shuffling down the street as fast as his ungainly body would go. 
               It would have been well for those more gifted by nature, if they had been as wise as poor Tommy Jones, and cried, "Bad man!" when his flattering words and generous attention first drew them from the paths of sobriety and virtue. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               EVIL COMPANIONS. 
               AS the spring drew near, Susie Gray became more and more feeble. She had not been well since her sickness in the autumn, and now she was becoming quite an invalid, unable to move about without assistance. While she had been ill with scarlet fever, Mrs. Gray gave her undivided attention to the sick room; but when the child seemed convalescent, those motherly fears were supplanted by other cares, and Susie was left much of the time with the hired girl. 
                
               Mrs. Gray lived before the agitation had begun in behalf of " woman's rights," so called; but she availed herself of such opportunities of public effort as presented themselves. She was president of "The Female Organization for the Education of Colored Children," an officer in the "Dorcas Society," and "The Fairfield Relief Society," besides giving her name, time, and influence to several other institutions, having worthy objects in view, and deserving cordial support, when such patronage does not thrust aside those sacred obligations which are ever laid by a Divine hand upon a mother's heart and life. 
               Martha was a faithful servant, and would almost have laid down her life for "the darlint," as she called poor Susie; but being unused to sickness, the oft-forgotten medicine and the ill-regulated diet availed but little toward the recovery of the invalid. Still there was a bond of sympathy between the two, for Susie appreciated kindness, and Martha, although ignorant, possessed a sympathizing heart. 
               "Oh, Martha, I hope Jesus will help me to be patient," said the child, one evening, when her strong-armed nurse had once more laid her in bed. 
               "Just as if ye wasn't as patient as a little lammie," was the kind-hearted reply. "Spaking never a word when I give the wrong medicine, nor scolding a bit when the tay is spilled on yer clane night-dress." 
               "But we can be impatient in our hearts, Martha," said the conscientious child, "even though we don't say a word. I sometimes fear, when I have these dreadful pains, that I shall want to go too soon. I must be willing to wait until Jesus calls, you know." 
               "Ye'll not be after wanting to die, with all yer pretty ways, and so young too?" asked the girl, with astonishment. 
               "When Jesus calls, I think I shall be ready," said the child, quietly. 
               "But never have ye confessed, my darlint, nor tasted the holy sacrament, and are ye not afraid to die without these?" and Martha looked earnestly for an answer. 
               "No, Martha. I have confessed my sins to Jesus, and he is greater than any priest, and has promised to forgive me, and wash me clean in his own blood." 
               "But ye don't say ye can confess to the blessed Son himself?" Martha asked. 
               "Oh, yes we can; he invites us to do so, for he says, 'Come unto me, all ye that labor, and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.' We are all weary and need his help for we all have wicked hearts." 
               "And meself can say that, darlint. Isn't it a bad heart that's thinking evil thoughts, and spaking fretful words, and getting angry every day of me life?" 
               "Why do you keep such a bad heart, Martha?" asked Susie, kindly. 
               "An sure, I would be glad to git a better one if iver I knew how." 
               "But Jesus will give you one, Martha. Just tell him all about it, and he will pardon you, and make your heart all clean." 
               "An sure, wouldn't I be glad if he'd only let me!" and tears flowed down the cheeks of the poor girl. 
               "Jesus says, 'Come unto me,' Martha; he says it to all, and he will be as glad to receive you and help you as if you had ever so much money to bring him." 
               "And me own sins are a burden, sure. Oh! if he only would take them!" and Martha fled to her attic, and there, alone with Jesus, she found the first ray of peace to her troubled mind. 
                
               Martha was naturally quick and impulsive, and the incessant demands upon her time and patience had drawn out the evil inclinations of her heart, until the poor girl became alarmed at the formidable array of sins appearing against her. The only way of escape which presented itself to her darkened mind was the confessional, although she acknowledged to herself, that of late this had given but little relief. The readiness with which she entered the path of life, when once it was pointed out, puts of shame the reluctant steps of many who have been trained from early childhood to how the way of truth through Jesus Christ. 
               The gentle patience of the little sufferer had won the confidence of the kind-hearted woman, and she feared not to trust One who had done so much for her invalid friend. Thus, Susie, in the privacy of her sick chamber, glorified her Father in heaven, by 
                   
                     BERTIE BROUGHT HOME. Page 67. 
                  
                  
                   bringing forth fruit to his praise. From this hour Martha almost idolized the sick child, carrying in her strong arms the feeble, helpless body, while she received strength, day by day, through intercourse with the sweet spirit within. 
               One day Susie begged hard to remain below, until Bertie came from school. She seldom saw him now, as her stay in the sitting-room was but for a few hours each day. The shadows began to lengthen, and Bertie did not come. Suddenly the door opened, and neighbor Atkins and son entered bearing in their arms the apparently lifeless form of her brother. One glance at the dropping head and pale face, and Susie fainted, and was borne to her chamber in an insensible condition. 
               Mrs. Gray rushed to the side of her son, as they laid him upon the lounge. "Is he dead?" she asked, grasping Mr. Atkins's arm wildly. 
               "Oh, no," was the cool reply. "I guess he's been smoking; although they do say Smith keeps some bad stuff." 
               Mrs. Gray used every means in her power to bring Bertie to consciousness, but it was nearly morning before he could give much account of what had happened. He had been smoking, he said, but would acknowledge nothing more. 
               Mortified and indignant, his mother declared he should not leave his room for a week; and so the next morning Bertie found himself a close prisoner. In vain he expostulated, and promised not to touch another cigar, the decree had gone forth, and his mother said, for one week he should be kept out of harm's way. At last he grew sullen, and sat down by the window in silence. His mother left, assuring him his imprisonment would be solitary for that day at least, and that bread and water would be his only fare. 
               After listening to her retreating footsteps, Bertie threw up the window to look for some way of escape. The chamber was upon the back of the house, and opened upon a small grassy plat, in the rear of the barn. 
               Just as Bertie raised the window, Ben Bailey issued from the barn. A signal from Bertie attracted Ben's attention, and moving cautiously toward the house, the two boys were soon conversing in a low tone. 
               "What's the case, Bert; an't you going to school?" asked Ben. 
               "That confounded cigar has done the mischief," replied Bertie. "I guess they thought I was drunk, so I'm under lock and key." 
               "Not so very far out of the way, were they Bert?" asked Ben, with a low laugh. "That glass of whiskey did make you appear rather foolish." 
               "Hush! exclaimed Bertie, glancing uneasily around, and coloring deeply. "I should have done well enough but for the cigar," he said; "but I'll learn to smoke yet, see if I don't." 
               "A capital time to practice now," said Ben, tossing several cigars into the open window. "I'll see you to-night," and he moved cautiously away. 
               Bertie closed the window, and picked up the cigars, with a mixture of regret and pleasure struggling within. He knew full well that his mother did not wish him to use tobacco, but he did not care much for that; indeed, he rather enjoyed the idea of defying her authority in this particular, and thus avenging himself for the day's close confinement. But a pale face, with sad, beseeching eyes, troubled him. He thought of the "beautiful garments," and wondered if he should ever wear them, white and clean. What would the poor child think if she knew how many stains were already upon them; and now, should he defile them with this new habit? For a moment he was softened, and was half persuaded to abandon his wicked ways, and seek for something nobler and better. But, alas! the thought was crushed. What would Ned Taylor, and Ben Bailey, and the other boys say? 
               Finally, to make sure of no further trouble upon the subject, he lighted a cigar, and began to smoke. At first he was a little giddy, but in the course of the day he succeeded in smoking one cigar. 
               When Mrs. Gray visited Bertie toward evening, she was highly indignant to find the room filled with tobacco smoke, and Bertie with a cigar in his mouth. But her words made matters worse rather than better. She told him he should not leave his chamber for a week; but Bertie resolved, if possible, to leave it that very night. 
               The twilight deepened as he sat watching for Ben Bailey. Bertie had never exactly fancied the company of this boy, but now Ben really seemed a friend in need, and, with emotions of pleasure new to Bertie, he descried a form through the dusky shadows cautiously approaching the house. 
               A whispered consultation sent Ben to the barn, from which he soon returned with a light ladder, and Bertie once more stood on terra firma, ready for an excursion to Smith's saloon. 
               He had no fears of being looked after, for his mother had told him he should see no one that night, as a punishment for smoking during the day. Once at the saloon, a glass of whiskey prepared him for any mischief the boys might plan. 
                
               About half way between the village and Bertie's home lived Mr. Bluff, a man noted for his irascibility. This peculiarity of temperament was a never-failing source of amusement to the boys, who delighted in nothing better than arousing his temper by some mischievous trick, often bringing down his vengeance upon some innocent victim, to be returned upon his own head. Thus, one morning discovering his carriage wheels perched high in air upon the top of a huge pine tree, he, in great rage, threatened his neighbor, Esquire Bateman, because there were footprints beneath the tree of unequal length, resembling Billy Bateman's crippled feet; but when the squire turned fiercely upon him, with the information that his son was sick at home, unable to leave his bed, the poor man's anger cooled rather suddenly especially as his haste had brought him into difficulty; for the squire highly resented what he considered an insult to his poor, deformed boy, who was rarely seen outside of his father's house in the evening in consequence of his ill health. 
               "What say, Ben, do you feel like stirring up the old hornet's nest to-night?" asked Ned Taylor. as the two boys, with Bertie, stood upon Smith's piazza. 
               "Just like it," responded Ben; "and here is one all ready to take hold. What say, Bert?" 
               "All ready," echoed the boy, but with a dim apprehension that he might get himself into a scrape. 
               The trio started for Mr. Bluff's residence. After reconnoitring the premises a while, they proceeded to an out-building, where Mr. Bluff kept his sleigh, harness, etc. It was an old-fashioned shed, sloping down to the ground on one side, and after much exertion they succeeded in dragging the sleigh to the top of the roof, when Bertie began jingling the bells, which brought the irascible old gentleman to the door, cursing the perpetrators of the mischief. 
               Ned and Ben disappeared, but fool-hardy Bertie continued the merry sound until Mr. Bluff had hobbled more than half the distance between them. Leaping then from the low roof, Bertie missed his calculation, and came to the ground. Mr. Bluff was nearly upon him before he could recover his feet and be off; but the old gentleman had recognized him, and called loudly for him to stop. 
               Bertie knew, from past experience, that his father would be honored with a visit immediately, and he determined to reach home before Mr. Bluff could possibly get there, and thus deprive the old gentleman of his prey. Taking a path across the field, Bertie was soon at the foot of the ladder which had been left under his window, and began to ascend, inwardly chuckling at the discomfiture Mr. Bluff would experience when his father should visit the chamber to satisfy the angry old man, as Bertie felt sure would be done. In his haste, lest his plan should fail, he thought not of the large lilac tree almost concealing the ladder from view; until his foot caught in a branch, and he was thrown violently to the ground. 
               "I've caught him! I've caught him!" gasped Mr. Bluff, his excitement and want of breath almost depriving him of the power of speech. "'Tis Bertie-the young rascal!" 
               "Bertie! What has he done?" asked Mr. Gray, rising, as his visitor so abruptly entered the sitting-room. 
               "I told you so!" repeated the old man, excitedly; "though you wouldn't believe me. But to-night I've caught him at it. He's been up to my house, and at his old tricks again. He's put the sleigh on the shed, he has." 
               "Impossible!" exclaimed Mr. Gray, indignantly. "Bertie is in his chamber, and probably fast asleep." 
               "So you always say," replied the old man, in a grieved tone. "But I know it was he this time." 
               "I will satisfy you, Mr. Bluff, that you are mistaken; and Mr. Gray took a lamp and led the way up stairs, the old gentleman following, muttering imprecations upon the offenders. But what was Mr. Gray's surprise to find the chamber empty, and the window raised to its utmost height! 
               Apologizing to Mr. Bluff, the disappointed father descended the stairs and left the house. Under the window he found Bertie groaning with a broken leg. 
                
               Mr. Gray wept, as he laid his son upon the sofa, and the willful boy felt this a sorer punishment than harsh words of angry blows. Dr. Rea was called, set the broken limb, and left Bertie a prisoner indeed. At first the poor boy thought he could not bear it, the lonely days and painful attitude were so trying to his patience. 
               Susie insisted upon being carried into his chamber, that her presence might relieve his tedious solitude; but his restlessness wearied her, and consequently her stay was short at first. 
               In a few days he became more composed, and she spent many hours with him. 
               "How can you be so patient?" Bertie asked one day, after watching Susie's placid countenance several minutes. 
               "Jesus helps me," she replied, raising her clear blue eyes to him, "Oh, he is a precious cious Saviour, Bertie. I wish you would let him help you." 
               "But he doesn't take away the pain, Susie. How then does he help you?" and the boy looked incredulous. 
               "I think he takes away a great deal," she replied. "Then I think he loves me so much, he would take it all away, if it was not best for me; so I can bear it very well when I know it is for my good." 
               "Yet I don't see how that makes it any easier to bear, after all," said the boy. 
               "I am afraid you don't love Jesus much, or you would see," replied Susie, her bright eyes shining with tearful emotion. 
               One day she referred to the time when Bertie was brought home by neighbor Atkins. "Why do you learn to smoke?" she asked, in her earnest, sober way. 
               "Oh, almost everybody does," responded Bertie. 
                
               "But some drink rum, play cards, and do other bad things; you wouldn't wish to do so because others do?" Susie remarked. 
               Bertie cast a quick, anxious glance at his sister. Her almost feared she was reproving him for something more than smoking, but one look at quiet, ingenuous face reassured him. 
               "You don't call smoking a bad thing, do you, Susie? Esquire Bateman and Deacon Colman smoke, and they are good men." 
               "But why don't people, who use tobacco, wish their sons and younger brothers to smoke, if it is so nice?" queried Susie. "I heard Esquire Bateman say he told his young brother, who has left off smoking, never to make a slave of himself again; and Deacon Colman said the other day he hoped his son would never smoke, for it was a ruinous habit." 
               "Sewall Colman does smoke," Bertie remarked marked quickly, "and he says is only following the footsteps of a good old deacon. But I don't see, Susie, why you care whether I use tobacco or not?" 
               "Why shouldn't I care, Bertie, When the Bible says, 'Cleanse yourselves from all filthiness of the flesh.' Do I want to see my heavenly Father disobeyed, and by my own brother too? Oh, the beautiful, beautiful garments!" she exclaimed, after a pause, "how can we be trying to keep them white and clean, when we care so little about doing such things!" 
               The poor child's earnestness was too much for her frail body, and she fell back fainting upon her pillow. Bertie rang the bell, and Martha gently bore the child to her own little room, murmuring,- 
               "He's kilt the poor child, sure." 
               Susie opened her eyes, and laid her him hand upon the girl's lips. "Not so, Martha tha," she whispered; "I've only tired myself talking. I shall be better soon." 
               "An yer always wearing yerself for other folks, darlint; thinking of doing good widout care for yer poor body. Shame to us, who are strong and well, and do so little for the blessed Jesus." 
               Martha drew the curtains, and kissed the pale face, leaving the weary child with "Nature's sweet restorer, balmy sleep." 
               Susie fell asleep with a fervent prayer, that her brother might be brought to know the Lord Jesus, and walk before him in purity of heart and life. 
               Bertie did not forget this conversation. It was hard, very hard, to smoke his next cigar; but smoke he would. He was not to be ruled by a little girl. He had promised Ben Bailey he would learn to smoke when Ben gave him those cigars, and he would he as good as his word. 
                
               His mother said very little to oppose him now. She thought she might have erred in severity, and now she seemed likely to fall into an equal excess of lenity-two extremes often found in the management of children by a hasty, imperious temper. She even went so far as to buy him more cigars. "The poor boy seems more quiet when he has a cigar to take up his mind," she said, as an excuse; "and I haven't the heart to deny him so small a favor, now he is alone so much." 
               Mr. Gray gave himself but little trouble about it. "Boys will be boys," he said; so the cigars were purchased, and Bertie learned to smoke without further opposition. 
               Susie loved her Sabbath-school teacher, and to her the child often turned for counsel and sympathy. 
               "You will pray for my brother, Mrs. Ames," Susie said one day when they had been speaking of Bertie's waywardness. 
               "Certainly, my child," replied Mrs. Ames. "But my darling must have faith in the promises of God; a firm, unwavering faith, that will grasp the promised blessing." 
               "There is the trouble, Mrs. Ames," replied Susie. "I have prayed so long for poor Bertie, and yet he seems growing worse and worse, that I sometimes fear our heavenly Father will not hear our prayers in his behalf." 
               "Poor, mistaken Susie!" and a kind hand passed caressingly over the transparent brow. "Let not unbelief rob my child of the bright crown in reserve for those who shall turn many to righteousness," said Mrs. Ames, softly. "Listen, my dear, to the words of a covenant-keeping God. "As I live, saith the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live.' Again, 'If we ask anything, accordingly to his will he heareth us; and if we know that he heareth us, whatsoever we ask, we know we have the petition that we desire of him.' Is there not food here to resuscitate the feeble, fainting faith my darling?" 
               "But why should the answer be so long delayed, if our prayers are acceptable in the sight of God?" asked Susie, doubtingly. 
               "'My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord,'" repeated Mrs. Ames, slowly, "It may be to try our faith, Susie. Our heavenly Father loves a clinging, trusting faith, holding on amid obstacles and discouragements. But are you sure, my dear, that the answer has been long delayed?" 
               Susie looked incredulous. "How can it be otherwise?" she asked. "Only last evening, Bertie acknowledge that he did many things every day, which six months ago he should have thought impossible; and he seemed to feel real bad about it, too; yet he goes right on doing wrong." 
               "May he not be learning a lesson, Susie, which all persons must learn before they yield to the conditions of the gospel,-that he is a sinner in the sight of God, and in need of divine forgiveness and aid? If so, has prayer been in vain?" 
               "Perhaps not; but he resolves so often to do better, and then fails, I get almost tired of waiting." 
               "Susie," and Mrs. Ames spoke kindly, yet seriously, "what would become of any of us, if our heavenly Father was so easily wearied? Are we not often slow to learn the lessons he would teach us, and are not severe measures sometimes needed to bring us to the foot of the cross? How often we carry burdens, long and wearily, ere we leave them at this blessed spot. No, no, Susie, every Christian has received enough, through the infinite forbearance of God, to make him patiently hopeful in the case of every poor sinner." 
               "Oh, Mrs. Ames, forgive me; but I have been troubled with these thoughts so long. Yet how could I," she continued; musingly, "when I have done just the same as Bertie, even since I hoped I loved the Saviour. Shall I tell you how wicked I have been?" and the nervous little fingers toyed caressingly with the hand of her teacher. 
               "If you are not tried, Susie; but are you not too weary to talk more?" 
               "I think not, Mrs. Ames; and I may not have another opportunity. When I first knew my back was so bad, and that I must be sick a long, long time, I thought I could not beat it. It seemed so hard to lie here, while others could walk about and enjoy themselves, that I grew fretful, and full of wicked thoughts. I thought God could have made me well just as soon as he did Minnie Stow, who was taken sick the same day I was; and I felt almost angry when her mother called to see me, and told me Minnie had rode out, while I was lying here sick and full of pain. Oh, Mrs. Ames, I did not know I could be so wicked, for I thought I loved Jesus, and was trying to obey him. I resolved again and again that I would not feel so; that I would be loving, gentle, and patient; but soon I would feel just as fretful as ever. At last I crept close to Jesus, and begged him to hide me where the wicked thoughts could not find me. Then the blessed Saviour seemed to fold me in his arms, close to his heart, and I was happy, and peaceful, as I had never been before. I felt willing to be sick, just as long as he saw best." 
               "But have you never felt uneasy and impatient since, my dear?" asked Mrs. Ames, with some emotion. 
               "Sometimes, for a few minutes," was Susie's reply; "but then I look up in Jesus' face,-you know I am close to him now,-and he puts his arms lovingly about me, and tells me not to be afraid, he will care for me. Oh, Mrs. Ames!" Susie suddenly exclaimed, "I know now just what to do with my fears concerning Bertie. I will do them up in a little bundle, and give them to Jesus, and he will take them, and put them on the other side of him, and then I shall have nothing more to do with them, for he bids us 'cast all our care on him, for he careth for us.'" 
               "'Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings lings thou hast perfected praise,'" murmured Mrs. Ames, while tears of joy ran down her cheeks, as she gazed upon the sweet, tranquil face beside her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               LITTLE SUSIE'S DEATH. 
               I TELL you, Mr. Gray, I am determined my boy shall be somebody in the world. I've been a drudge all my days, but I intend Bertie shall have a better chance." 
               This was said in reply to a proposition from Mr. Gray, that his son should give assistance on the farm the approaching season, instead of returning to school. Bertie, had become strong and well, and his father, like most hard-working farmers, began to feel that the boy ought to be doing something to help him. 
                
               Mr. Gray would have been satisfied with the good old-fashioned way of bringing up his son to till the soil; but his wife had different ideas of life. To her the occupation of a farmer was degrading, and she looked with envious eyes upon white hands and unsullied clothing. Forgetting the fact that every vocation must have its trials, she sought a smoother way for her son's feet than was to be found in the rugged paths of honest toil. So it was decided that the place now vacant in Esquire Bateman's store should be filled by Bertie. 
               The boy had very little choice in the matter. Like most other lads of his age, he disliked hard labor, but manifested very little predilection for any especial calling. He was pleased, however, with the idea of spending his time at the village. Most of his associates lived there, and he saw no obstacle to passing his evenings at Smith's saloon, as Esquire Bateman closed his store at an early hour. 
               As Bertie could not receive much wages at first, his father furnished him with a moderate supply of pocket money. But that young gentleman found this far too small to meet the demands made upon his purse. 
               How to procure a sufficiency, was a question which exercised all his ingenuity. Sometimes he obtained, by persuasion, a small amount from his mother; and, if an opportunity offered, he did not scruple to take part of the money intrusted to his care to pay small family bills. 
               The autumn evenings drew near, and Nathan Smith was engaged to prepare an oyster supper. Every lad was expected to share in the expense. Several kinds of liquor were provided, and all knew that no inconsiderable amount of money would be needed. Not a few were short of means, and among these was Bertie Gray. 
               Something must be done to meet this emergency. On the outskirts of the town lived a man who had devoted much time to the culture of fruit. At this time he had several noble trees heavily laden with ripe pears. Smith proposed that the boys should relieve the old gentleman of the arduous task of gathering and marketing them. 
               Ned Taylor, Ben Bailey, and Bertie, with one or two others, whose pockets needed replenishing, were ready to fall in with this proposition. Without detection, they one night obtained a considerable quantity of the pears, which were duly delivered into the hands of Smith for sale. 
               Great was the surprise and indignation of the owner, Mr. Hart, to find in the morning his trees rifled of some of his finest fruit; but all efforts to obtain any clue to the thieves for a time proved unavailing. 
               Smith found a ready sale for the pears, as the cars passed to and fro through the town, realizing quite a handsome profit after paying the boys liberally for them. 
               Nearly all had been sold, when one day the owner of the fruit entered the saloon. A few pears lay upon the counter, which Mr. Hart instantly recognized as the product of a graft which had been the object of his peculiar care and pride. 
               "Where do you purchase such fruit as this?" he asked, carelessly taking one of the pears in his hand. 
               "They were raised by my uncle in Vermont," replied Smith, ever ready for an answer, and willing to screen the boys from being caught in their mischief. Mr. Hart, however, felt sure he held his own property in his hand, yet he had no proof. He was a man sparing of words, and lenient in judgment, so nothing more was said upon the subject; but he ever after kept his eye upon Nathan Smith. 
               Their success in this affair hardened the boys to go on to still greater lengths in sin, forgetting that "though hand join hand, the wicked shall not go unpunished." 
               Playing games of chance became quite a pastime at Smith's, and by this means Bertie found himself in debt. Every method to relieve himself proved unavailing, and he determined to resort to another trick. 
               Esquire Bateman kept the books of his establishment himself, and he expected Bertie to give a strict account of all sales which he effected during the day. By a little overreaching of customers, and asking an extra price for some articles, Bertie contrived, from time to time, to put a few dollars into his own pocket, and was congratulating himself upon his shrewdness, when a little incident put an end to further depredations of that kind for a time. 
               A lady having bought some delaine of Bertie, came in shortly afterward for a larger supply, and was waited upon by Esquire Bateman himself. Surprised to find the price less than she had before paid, she remarked upon the fact, stating what she had paid the day previous. 
               The squire assured her it was an oversight, as they had but one price, and instantly refunded the surplus which he said thus honestly belonged to her. Upon examination, however, the books gave a different statement. No extra price had been received; at least, so it read in black and white. Bertie was called, and corroborated the entry found in the books. He had sold the delaine, he said, for twenty-five cents per yard, the price marked upon the goods. Esquire Bateman, supposing the lady mistaken, said no more about it. But not so with Mrs. Watson. She rehearsed the matter to several friends, asserting that Bertie intended to cheat her. 
               Among these she found two who had bought several yards from the same piece, paying twenty-eight cents per yard for it. This coming to the ears of Esquire Bateman, awakened suspicion. He could not doubt the testimony of these individuals, for they were well known to him, and above reproach. To be sure it was a small affair, but if true, it proved the dishonesty of his clerk; and this was of no small moment. But the squire was not a man to act rashly; and keeping his eyes open, he waited for further proof. 
               Benson Cary, although living now a hundred miles away, and a rough farmer, was in his earlier years a classmate of Esquire Bateman's. The old gentleman was always treated with great familiarity by the squire whenever he visited Fairfield. Having a sister in the village, with a large family of children, he seldom came to town without making several purchases of his old school friend, to be bestowed upon some favorite niece or nephew. 
               To Bertie Mr. Cary was a stranger; and emboldened by his country manners and supposed ignorance, the youth put one dollar into his own pocket, through the sale of two pairs of boots, destined to gladden the hearts of Willie and Edson Bray. The old gentleman was about leaving, when he encountered his friend, Esquire Bateman, upon the threshold. 
               "How are you, how are you?" he exclaimed, bruskly. "Getting rich, hey!" 
               "Oh, no friend Cary. Only doing a fair business," returned the squire. 
                
               "Must be getting rich," persisted the old gentleman. "Such enormous prices! Could do better up in old Roughboro' buying boots." 
               "What did you pay?" asked the squire carelessly taking and opening the package. 
               Mr. Cary mentioned the price, adding,- 
               "I told the youngster it was too bad, but he said they were marked so much." 
               The squire's eyes rested for a moment upon Bertie's face. He needed no further evidence. The strong marks of guilt convinced him that the young man had purposely defrauded his customer, and thus willfully injured the reputation of his employer. Within an hour Bertie was discharged and sent home. But for the sake of his parents, Esquire Bateman would not expose the offending boy; so very few knew why he left so suddenly. 
               From this hour Bertram Gray made rapid progress in the way to ruin, and Mr. Gray knew not what to do with his son. It was winter, and there was but little to do at home, so Bertie spent most of his time at Smith's, gambling and drinking with the lowest of companions. 
               Some wondered where he got money for so much dissipation, but Bertie had become quite an adept at games, and many a day's hard-earned wages passed from the hands of some common laborer into the pocket of Bertram Gray, to be again poured out upon the country of Nathan Smith, in return for liquor that sent him home at night in a state of beastly intoxication, disturbing poor Susie's last days with the confusion incident to such scenes. 
               Many times during the past year the child had appeared upon the verge of the grave. But contrary to the expectation of her friends, she had rallied again and again, although each ill turn left her weaker than before. But near the close of March it became evident that her days were numbered. She was fully conscious of the fact, and held many conversations with her father respecting Bertie's behavior. She seemed to feel that if he was out of the way of temptation he might be reclaimed. 
               "After I am gone, father," she would say, "take Bertie and go back to our old home. Mother will be willing now, I think, and you know we were so happy. No rum shops will be there to tempt poor Bertie, and if you can get him out of bad company he will do better." 
               One day she seemed very near her end, and asked for her brother. He was away, as usual, but a messenger was sent for him. The day wore away, yet Bertie came not. 
               She took leave of father and mother, but the parting with Martha was peculiarly tender. 
               "How can a poor blundering thing like meself git on widout ye?" said the poor girl, with many tears. 
               "But you will have Jesus, Martha," said Susie, comfortingly. "He is better than all earthly friends." 
               "An 'its meself that knows that, sure," sobbed the girl. "But who will tell me when I goes right or when I goes wrong, if ye are away, with yer blessed swate words?" 
               "I wish you could read, Martha," said the child, placing a little volume of Bible promises in Martha's hand. "But you can get some one to read one of these to you every day, and you can think it is the voice of Jesus speaking to you every time." 
               "Sure an I will; I'll try to do everything he says," replied Martha, quickly. 
                
               "You must not say any more now, Susie," Mrs. Gray interposed. "You are tired, and must rest." 
               "Let me talk while I can, mother," said the child, imploringly. "I have but little time to work now. Oh, that Bertie would come!" 
               Mr. Gray went himself for the boy. Entering Smith's saloon, he asked if Bertie was there. 
               "He has been, but has gone out now," said the smiling proprietor. 
               Mr. Gray lingered. "If you know where the boy is, I wish you would tell him his sister is dying, and wishes to see him," said he, solemnly. 
               In the little inner room, playing cards with Ned Taylor and Ben Bailey, sat Bertie, when these words fell upon his ear. He was partially intoxicated, but the last sentence which fell from the lips of his father sobered him. Starting from his chair, he rushed out through the back door, and was at home before his father. 
               Entering Susie's chamber, he was struck with awe at the sight before him. Raised high upon pillows, the poor child lay panting for breath. As he entered, her bright eyes shone with a peculiar luster, and stretching her hands towards him, she gasped,- 
               "Jesus is calling, Bertie, and I am ready. Promise me, you will,-" 
               The sentence remained unfinished. A heavenly smile passed over the pale face, and Susie was gone. 
               Mrs. Ames closed the beautiful eyes, and kneeling, prayed that Susie's triumphant death might lead all present to consecrate themselves more fully to the dear Saviour, whom she loved and honored. 
               Bertie left the presence of death in an agony of grief. There seemed now an impassable distance between himself and his little sister; yet for several days an ever-present influence held him back when about to rush into sin. And the impression followed him in his sober moments, that he must prepare to meet that patient little one, who had gone up through much tribulation, and was now clothed in pure raiment, white and clean. But he was not allowed to dwell long upon these thoughts. Temptation lurked on every side to drag him away from every good impulse. 
               "Halloa, Bert! When will you finish that game of cards?" cried Ned Taylor, accosting Bertie as he was passing from a neighbor's house about a week after Susie's death. 
               "Don't know as I ever shall finish it," replied the youth, rather demurely. 
                
               "Quit the business altogether?" asked Ned, roguishly. 
               "Perhaps," responded Bertie. 
               "Pshaw! Bert. You are more of a man than that. Come up to-night, and you'll feel better. You've got the blues, old fellow." 
               Bertie thought of what his companion had said, long after he left. He was miserable, that was a fact. Perhaps he should feel better to see some of his old comrades. At any rate, he thought he would try it. 
               His appearance was greeted with cheers. Nathan Smith was particularly cordial; he spoke with regret of Bertie's long absence, and offered to treat the company in honor of his arrival. 
               The boy had intended, when he left home, not to drink a drop of liquor, but the temptation was too great; just one glass, and he resolved to take no more. But one glass awakened an appetite not so easily appeased. The second and third was called for, until Bertie lay upon the floor of the bar-room beastly drunk. 
               Mr. Gray had not noticed his son's disappearance until some time after he left. Susie's conversations, and the deplorable condition in which Bertie often came home, had awakened the greatest anxiety in his father, and he now resolved to use some means to prevent a recurrence of such scenes. 
               All was quiet when he entered Smith's saloon in search of his absent son. No one present confessed any knowledge of the boy, and Mr. Gray was about to leave, when a sudden noise, followed by a loud oath, attracted his attention. 
               "'Tis my son's voice," said Mr. Gray, to the evasive remark of Nathan Smith, "and I must see him." 
               At this moment the door flew open, and Charley Mason, followed by Ben Bailey, rushed out. Ben held an open knife in his hand, but the sight of Mr. Gray stopped his progress, and Charley escaped. Mr. Gray stepped into the other room,-and what a sight for a father to behold! On the floor lay Bertie, the blood streaming from his face, and he vainly striving to rid himself of a heavy chair which lay across his breast. 
               At the sight of his father, Bertie groaned, and passively submitted to the directions given by him to one or two young men, apparently more steady than the rest, to assist in carrying the boy to the carriage. In so doing, Bertie was aroused from his stupor, but not a word was spoken until they reached home. 
               "You can go directly to your chamber," said Mr. Gray, when he found Bertie had regained the use of his feet. 
                
               The boy dared not disobey. The quiet tones of his father's voice, when he gave a command, always carried conviction to Bertie's mind that he had better obey. 
               That night Mr. Gray held a consultation with his wife. "We must leave Fairfield," said he, rising and walking the room, "and that very soon." 
               "Where would you go?" asked Mrs. Gray, with some astonishment. 
               "To Mapleville," was the firm reply. "I must take Bertie away from temptation," he continued, seeing his wife made no further remark; "and I know of no better place than our old home. We can rent the place here, if no opportunity appears to sell it." 
               "How can you go back to that little out-of-the-way place?" asked his wife, almost pettishly. "If we must go, cannot you take your family where we can enjoy better privileges?" 
                
               "I came here to enjoy better privileges, and I have had them," replied Mr. Gray sarcastically. "I have enjoyed the privilege of finding my son drunk on the bar-room floor of Nathan Smith's saloon, and of hearing my own child utter oaths, which even now it makes my blood run cold to recall. No, Mary," and he spoke more quietly, "I will no longer mock God by offering the prayer 'Lead us not into temptation,' and then placing my child where temptation assails him at every step. I can not regulate the sale of liquors," he continued, "or I would banish every grog-shop in the land, and thus take my son, and everybody's son, out of the way of temptation, but I will do what I can. I will place him, as far as I have the power, where the least temptation exists." 
               "But there are many good men among us who think differently from you. They would not favor intemperance, and yet they uphold the sale of liquors by persons properly licensed." 
               "I know it, Mary, and there is the shame. How men with the Bible in their hands, professing to be guided by its holy precepts can advocate what is so clearly in opposition to its teachings, I can not see. In the word of God, a woe is pronounced against him who giveth his neighbor drink, or maketh him drunken. We are also exhorted not to put a stumbling-block, or an occasion to fall, in our brother's way. If these passages have no bearing upon this subject, I do not understand them. I tell you, Mary, public opinion must be aroused against the sale of intoxicating liquors. We need something more than moralizing to save our land from intemperance. The combined forces of law, of moral suasion, and of every other good influence, will be needed to exterminate this fearful evil from our land; and he who goes to work single-handed, with either of these alone, will meet with small success in the great work which must ere long be done, or our country will be ruined by drunkenness. 
               "Really," said Mrs. Gray, sarcastically, "it is a shame for a man who knows what ought to be done, to hide this knowledge in the wild woods of Maine. If I were a man, with your ideas, I would promulgate them throughout every State in the Union, and become famous, at least, if I did not make converts of my hearers." 
               "I have no desire for notoriety, Mary, and I have not the ability to change public sentiment; so I must be content to do what I can,-protect my own family, as much as possible, from evils I can not remove." 
               The next morning Mr. Gray had a talk with Bertie. The boy confessed his weakness in the hour of temptation, but when his father spoke of leaving Fairfield, h begged hard to remain. 
               "Just try me once more, father," he pleaded, "and see if I can not do better. If it wasn't for drink, I should do well enough, and I guess I can let that alone." 
               Mr. Gray did not like to tell his son he could not trust him, yet he shook his head doubtingly. 
               "You lack one important thing, Bertie, in order to encounter temptation safely,-a proper sense of your own weakness, and your need of Divine aid, to enable you to stand firm in the hour of trial. Without this your strongest resolutions may fail you." 
               This was reasoning to which Bertie was a stranger, so he remained silent. 
               Mr. Gray found but little opposition, after this, in making preparations for moving. It was something new for him to be so decided in his movements; and Mrs. Gray yielded, with the best grace she could command, to a decision she had not the power to change. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               WILLIE GRANT AND HIS SISTER. 
               MAPLEVILLE was situated upon the frontier of Maine. Several years before our story commenced, its cheap lands had attracted the attention of Mr. Gray, and he had purchased a large number of its heavily wooded acres, with the intention of making there a permanent residence of himself and family. After clearing a small portion, and erecting a log house, he removed his wife and little son to this new home. 
               As Mrs. Gray entered this primitive structure ture, she laughingly told her husband she would stay just five years in this secluded spot, and meanwhile he must grow rich, and be able to place his family in more favored circumstances. But the five years had become ten, and yet Mr. Gray was comparatively a poor man. True, they were surrounded with many comforts which were unknown to them during their first years in Mapleville. A pretty, neat cottage had taken the place of the uncouth log hut. Several acres of highly cultivated land yielded a good supply of vegetables and other produce for home consumption, besides sending Mr. Gray occasionally with a load to market, in a large village nearly six miles distant, in the adjoining town of Scranton. 
               This village was in direct communication with the camps far back in the deeply wooded parts of the State, where large numbers bers of lumbermen spent the long winters in the logging business. This fact drew a large portion of the new settlers toward the south, leaving Mr. Gray's residence more secluded than he had anticipated it would be. A nucleus of a village had been started in Mapleville, but it remained somewhat stationary, while Scranton grew in size and importance. 
               Mrs. Gray could not be satisfied without more society, and at one time she proposed exchanging their farm for one in the vicinity of Scranton; but a legacy received from a deceased uncle changed the current of her thoughts, and directed them towards Fairfield. 
               Mrs. Gray greatly desired her husband to take a house in the village, and engage in trade, but for this he had no taste or inclination. He had been educated a farmer, and a farmer he must be, he said; so the Brookville ville farm was bought, and hence their three years experience in Fairfield. 
               In returning now to their old home, Mr. Gray hoped to avoid the temptations his son had encountered in Nathan Smith's saloon. The laws of Maine prohibited the sale of spirituous liquors as a beverage, and the open-hearted, straight-forward inhabitants of Mapleville had not yet learned to discard good and wholesome laws for the sake of ill-gotten gains. 
               Previous to leaving Mapleville, Mr. Gray had sold some acres of land adjoining his little homestead, and upon his return he found a pretty cottage within a few rods of his own, with Allan Grant and family for neighbors. 
               There were also improvements in other directions. Here and there the large forest trees had given place to clearings, and several houses had been erected within a mile. The little village had enlarged its dimensions, and with its mills, two stores, and pretty new church, made quite a respectable appearance. 
               Mrs. Gray found these changes quite congenial to her mind, and in a few months was actively engaged in society affairs. One object especially aroused her most ambitious desires. 
               The new church needed furnishing, and the ladies of the society had taken this work into their own hands. At first they thought of an appeal to larger and richer churches for help; but Mrs. Gray proposed a fair, combining several attractive features calculated to bring in money. 
               Several were opposed to this, thinking the object might be accomplished without resorting to such means, if every one would make as much sacrifice of time and money as would be required to give success to a fair. But the young people were delighted with the idea of a fair, and even those with many years upon them manifested a childish curiosity to be present at such a scene of gayety and amusement. 
               Mrs. Gray had been an active agent on such occasions in Fairfield, and her superior experience gave her considerable influence with the ladies of Mapleville; for such occasions were somewhat new in that part of the country. 
               As the long autumn evenings drew near, preparations were made for the coming event. 
               "You will assist us in our new enterprise, Mrs. Grant?" asked Mrs. Gray, stepping into the neat little cottage across the way. 
               "I shall be happy to do all in my power to aid in furnishing our church," replied Mrs. Grant. 
               "I am happy to hear you say this," returned turned Mrs. Gray, "for we have assigned the care of one table to your daughter Lucy. You know we need pretty faces for this business," she added, turning smilingly toward a young girl of sixteen, who sat sewing by the window. 
               The girl blushed deeply at the implied compliment, yet turned a hasty, anxious glance toward her mother. Mrs. Grant looked seriously in the face of her visitor. 
               "I do not think I understand the principles upon which this fair is to be conducted," she said. "Will you please explain?" 
               "Oh, very much after the example of other churches, I suppose," was the careless reply. "We have arranged one table for fancy articles, another for confectionery, cake, pies, etc.; still another for more substantial eatables. Then we are to have lemonade, ice creams, and whatever will prove attractive to the young; you know, Mrs. Grant, we must please the youth nowadays, and for this reason we have selected some of the prettiest girls in Mapleville for saleswomen. I have observed that a pretty girl attracts more customers than a common-place dowdy; so I predict our little Lucy here will do a smart business that evening." 
               "But I understand the fair is to be continued more than one evening," remarked Mrs. Grant, apparently not noticing Mrs. Gray's last remark. 
               "Oh, yes, we are to have tableaux, dialogues, etc., the second evening, and here again we shall be dependent upon Miss Lucy. Bertie, I believe, is preparing the programme, with the expectation of your assistance," she said, turning again toward the still blushing girl. 
               "Somewhat of a theatrical exhibition," quietly remarked Mrs. Grant. 
                
               "Oh, no," replied Mrs. Gray. "We do not call it by such grave names. We only desire something that will attract the largest numbers, and insure the greatest amount of money. By the way," she continued, "the ladies of the society propose making a quilt for the fair, and here we shall claim your services. Mrs. Grant. Some fifty tickets will be sold, at twenty-five cents each; one ticket only drawing the prize. Now you see no one would object to pay so small a sum as twenty-five cents, when the result might be a handsome quilt; while we shall realize a larger amount for the article than by its regular sale. I think this the finest thing about the fair." 
               "I should call it gambling," firmly responded Mrs. Grant. 
               "Dear me! How can you entertain such old fashioned ideas!" exclaimed Mrs. Gray. "People nowadays do not regard things in such a light." 
               "Please answer one question, Mrs. Gray. Will any one, in buying tickets for the quilt, receive a fair compensation for his money? Is it not altogether an affair of luck and chance?" 
               "I suppose it can be so regarded, if you please," said Mrs. Gray, stiffly. "But I find very few people so superstitious. We will not waste words, however, upon so trivial a subject. I presume you will not object to the other arrangements, and will permit Lucy t o assist, as I have mentioned." 
               "I do object, Mrs. Gray, to the whole affair," and Mrs. Grant spoke with much feeling. "I am sorry to appear in opposition to your views, but my conscience tells me that this is not the Scripture method of furnishing God's house." 
               "I was not aware, Mrs. Grant, that we had any particular rules laid down in the Bible concerning these things,"-and Mrs. Gray smiled contemptuously. 
               "If I understand you, Mrs. Gray, this gathering, with all its accompaniments, has for its special object the worldly pleasure of those who attend; in short, to have a good time,' without any very conscientious scruples how it shall be obtained, provided a sufficient amount of money is forthcoming. Now, shall we present to the Lord an offering polluted with evil principles and questionable practices? Did he not censure his people in olden time for such things, and will he accept such an offering from our hand?" 
               "Really, Mrs. Grant, I am sorry you take such a serious view of the matter. We thought to prepare a little pleasant entertainment for the young people, and thereby secure their coperation in furnishing our church. But it appears useless to expect help there, consequently I must invite Mary Harlow to take Lucy's place. Esquire Harlow's family are ever ready to lend a helping hand in every good work." 
               "I consider it a duty incumbent upon Christian parents to train their children to love the Lord's treasury, and bring willingly an offering into his house," said Mrs. Grant, with a pleasant smile. "And to convince you, Mrs. Gray, that we do not wish to evade responsibility in this matter, Lucy and myself will place in your hands, as one of the committee to collect funds, the trifle we had laid aside for the completion of God's house." 
               Mrs. Gray's manner changed perceptibly. 
               "I declare, Mrs. Grant, you have done nobly!" she cried, as she received the money. "If every woman in Mapleville could command money as easily, we should not need a fair, surely. But the expenses of our family are so great," and her face lengthened, "that we never seem to have much to give; so I thought if I could help along by assisting in getting up a fair, I would do so. I suppose, where there is money enough, it is better to give directly to a good cause." 
               Mrs. Grant made no reply, and Mrs. Gray left in apparent good humor. 
               Had Lucy or her mother been disposed, they could have told that the sum which seemed so large had resulted from the putting by of a few cents at a time for this very purpose. Mrs. Grant held to a systematic benevolence, and her example as well as precept taught Lucy the beauty of "laying by in store according as the Lord prospered" her. So there was no lack when a good cause presented itself. The oft-repeated peated excuse, "I have no money," never fell from their lips, for there was always something in the Lord's treasury, ever ready when the Master should call. When Christians are thus prepared, they will not feel the necessity of restoring to worldly measures to carry forward the Lord's work. 
               Lucy Grant was naturally a timid girl, but with that independence of character which always accompanies a clear sense of right and wrong, combined with a firm determination to walk in the path of duty. She had listened to the conversation between her mother and Mrs. Gray, and her views of truth led her to see, that should she give her assistance at the fair, as was desired, she would be obliged to countenance many things which her conscience would not approve. 
               "Mary Harlow told me they would have cigars for sale," she said, while discussing the subject with her mother, after Mrs. Gray's departure. "How could I ask brother Will, or any other young man, to buy cigars, when I disapprove of the use of tobacco altogether. I could never speak against smoking again if I should once sell a box of cigars." 
               "Better never place ourselves in circumstances where we shall be likely to compromise our principles," replied her mother. "The eyes of the world are sharp to detect such inconsistency, and we can never know how many precious souls might be saved from ruin if Christians would stand firm to their principles in little things." 
               "I know it, mother. I saw that plainly the other day," returned Lucy. "Bertie Gray seemed surprised because I refused a glass of wine at Mary Harlow's birthday party; and he afterwards told me he did not know any one was so conscientious except his sister, and she died; and he looked as if he expected me to vanish from the earth immediately." 
               "Did Esquire Harlow furnish wine for this daughter's party?" asked Mrs. Grant, with some surprise. 
               "Mary said it was home made," Lucy answered, coloring a little. 
               "I am sorry they should introduce such a practice," said Mrs. Grant, gravely. "But who knows, my child, but your example, in that instance, may save Bertie from a drunkard's fate. Many a young man has been ruined by such an apparently trivial circumstance." 
               Lucy did not tell her mother that she heard little Bess say all of the wine but one bottle was sent from New York; neither did she speak of Bertie's confession that her example strengthened him to refuse the sparkling cup! Above all, she dare not let her mother know that the insinuating smile of Mary Harlow had thrown the tempter's snare around her brother Will, and from her hands he had taken his first glass of wine. 
               Willie Grant was nearly twenty years of age, bright, intelligent, and, so far, with a life governed by high moral principles. When Mary Harlow offered him that glass of wine, he hesitated, but her whispered,-"Just try it, Willie. It is of our own make,"-threw him off his guard, and beneath her fascinating smile he tasted for the first time intoxicating liquor. 
               Lucy's eyes flashed as she beheld the triumphant look upon the face of Mary Harlow; but the firm "No, I thank you," which fell from the girl's lips, in reply to a like invitation, brought a blush of shame to her brother's cheek, and startled Bertram Gray into a similar refusal. 
                
               Lucy had pondered much upon this incident, but fearful of disturbing her mother's feelings, she had not mentioned the circumstance before; and now she withheld the unpleasant past, hoping her own influence over Will might lead him to see his error. 
               Mrs. Grant almost idolized her first-born, and when, two years before, he openly professed his faith in the dear Redeemer, the fond mother cherished the hope that one days she should hear his voice in the pulpit, proclaiming the unsearchable riches of Christ. 
               He had finished his academical studies, and was now hesitating between a regular collegiate education and a shorter course to the ministry. Meanwhile he tarried at home, and the pretty Mary Harlow was engaging much of his time and attention. 
               "There is something you must certainly purchase," said the captivating girl, as Will, examining the various articles upon her table at the fair, held in his hand a pretty little smoking cap. 
               "What shall I do with it, Miss Harlow?" he asked. "I never smoke,-except in the street,"-he added, seeing her look of unfeigned astonishment; "and you would not advise me to wear it there." 
               "Dear me, how unfortunate!" exclaimed Mary, with a disappointed air. "I wrought it almost purposely for you. I'm sure I saw you smoking as you passed our house the other day with Bertram Gray, and you held your cigar so gracefully, I thought you an adept in the art." 
               Will did not like to acknowledge that that was his first attempt at the business, and that he had yielded then only for a few moments, in courtesy to his companion, who passed him the cigar. He saw at a glance that Mary considered it a gentlemanly performance, so he purchased the cap and a box of cigars. 
               "Why do you not smoke at home?" she asked, as she wrapped the pretty cap in paper, and laid it upon the table. 
               "Oh, mother does not relish it, and Lucy is for ever talking against smoking," he replied, laughingly. "These women, I believe, are invariably opposed to the practice." 
               "Not all, Mr. Grant," returned Mary. "I never object to the fragrance of a good cigar. Indeed, I rather like it." 
               "Ah! Then I believe I shall have to engage a room at your house for the special use of my cigars," he said, gayly; while the laughing girl declared he would be ever welcome. 
               Willie did not show his purchases to his mother or sister, but locked them in his trunk, and took the precaution to put the key in his pocket. 
               "Why do you go out to-night, my son? It is very cold," remarked Mrs. Grant, as Will brought out his overcoat, and stood for a few moments by the sitting-room fire one cold winter night. 
               "I promised to meet a school friend tonight, mother, who is stopping at Esquire Harlow's," he replied. 
               "The young man at church with Mary?" asked Lucy, with some curiosity. 
               "The same," replied Will. "Frank Shirley, a cousin of Mary. You have heard me speak of him, I think." 
               "Yes, but I thought you had but slight acquaintance with him," returned Lucy, looking curiously in her brother's face. 
               "I have not much, but Mary sent me a note stating he wished to see me, and I can do no less than call, especially as I have promised to do so," and Willie left, evidently annoyed by his sister's manner. 
               He knew Lucy did not approve of his visiting Mary Harlow, and also knew her reasons for such disapproval. He could not deny the fact when she told him Mary was not the companion to help him along in the self-denying path of the Christian. Her love of the world and its pleasures would drag him down to the same level, and cool his ardor in the work to which he had devoted himself. Yet he was fascinated by her, and did not abide by his own convictions of duty. 
               On the evening in question, he was received very cordially by Mary and her cousin. 
               "It was so kind in you to come," she said. "Frank and myself were dying of ennui. We were seriously thinking of leaving for New York;" and she rattled on, describing the splendid times they had enjoyed while on a visit to that city together the previous autumn. 
               "Now for a game of euchre!" exclaimed Frank. "Call Bessie; she will do very well for a partner." 
               Willie protested that he did not know one card from another; but this only created amusement for the saucy girl. She pronounced him just good for nothing, and declared that if he did not learn then and there she would cut his acquaintance forthwith. 
               Will was nettled, yet did not dare say much. Mary saw she had wounded him; and ceasing her bantering, she teased and pouted by turns, until the cards were dealt out, and with Bessie, a younger sister, they sat down to a game. 
               Frank and Mary showed themselves good players; and although Willie understood little about it, yet he became interested as each grew earnest in the endeavors to win. 
               Once, twice, Mary carried the day, and laughingly told her cousin-for the game was really between the two-she would carry off the palm, with every game, during the evening. 
               "I will give you a handsome gold ring if I do not beat next time," he said, almost fiercely. 
               To Mary's disappointment and chagrin she lost the game, and consequently did not win the gold ring. 
               "I will bet a box of cigars against your gold pencil!" she exclaimed, dealing out the cards anew. 
               "And lose it," replied her cousin, with a light laugh. 
               'What do you say, Mr. Grant?" asked Mary, vexed at her cousin's manner 
                
               "You will lose," echoed Will, ready to tease her. 
               "If I win, will you play whenever I shall ask you?" she said, with apparent unconcern. 
               "You may be safe to promise that," said Frank, decidedly, "for I can win, with her, whenever I choose." 
               Will gave the required promise, and the game commenced. Mary and Frank bent their whole energies to the work, and not a word was spoken, until Mary clapped her hands in token of victory. 
               "A double prize!" she cried, as Frank handed over his pencil. 
               "But you are not in earnest, Mary?" exclaimed Will, in surprise. "You will not take your cousin's pencil for so trifling an affair?" 
               "To be sure I shall," she replied, "and hold you to your promise, too, sir. I have secured a quartette for the winter if you do go away," she added, turning toward Frank. "Bess and brother Ned will do very well, now that Mr. Grant has promised to play." 
               "Look out how you bet, Mary, or you will be ruined with such an expert player," remarked Frank, with smiling sarcasm. 
               "There may be some danger in that direction," she returned, with mock gravity; "but I am desperate, you know, and shall run the risk." 
               "I'll learn to play until I can beat Mary Harlow," muttered Willie Grant, as he stepped nervously over the crisp snow on his way home. "I'll not be bantered in this fashion by a girl!" 
               "I wonder what has come over Willie," murmured Mrs. Grant, more to herself than to her listener, Lucy; and the fond mother gazed upon the retreating form of her son as he passed down the gentle slope which led to the highway, one fine morning in early spring. "He seems so changed of late," she added, addressing her daughter, "that I hardly know what to think. I fear some influence is drawing him away from the path of duty." 
               "I have feared this for a long time, mother, but I did not like to worry you by expressing my apprehensions," said the girl, with much feeling. 
               "Can you divine any cause for this change, Lucy? You should not hesitate to tell me, if you know," said Mrs. Grant, seeing Lucy remained silent. "No good can come by keeping matters in the dark." 
               "I think his visits at Esquire Harlow's has something to do with it," replied Lucy, cautiously. 
               "Oh, is that all!" remarked her mother, with a look of relief. "I see no harm in his going there. Esquire Harlow has a good, respectable family, and Mary, I hope, is a Christian girl." 
               "She may be, mother; but Mary Harlow has changed since her return from New York. She now advocates dancing, card-playing, smoking, and drinking wine; and I fear has drawn Willie into some of these practices." 
               "Lucy Grant! you astonish me!" exclaimed her mother. "You should have evidence of what you say, or you may be bearing false witness against your neighbor." 
               Lucy uttered no word, but drew from her pocket a letter, which she handed to her mother. It was directed to Willie Grant, and dated one week previous, and read thus:- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "DEAR WILLIE: Pray do not be angry because I won the bracelet. I know it was almost too bad, for it must have cost a great deal. It is just like Annie Steel's, as I stipulated, and I shall keep it in remembrance of the good times we have enjoyed the past winter. But do come to-night, for I am dying for a game of cards, and Bess and Ned are teasing me because you have been absent four days. 
                           "I have a new pack of cards, a box of cigars, and several bottles of wine cousin Lute sent me from New York. The wine is excellent, and all are at your service if you will only come over to-night. 
                           "Everything is so quiet in this little out-of-the-way place, I shall certainly die of ennui if you stay away one day longer. 
                           
                              Yours truly, 
                              "MARY HARLOW."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Pale as death, Mrs. Grant folded the letter, and laid it in Lucy's hand. "Where did you get this?" she asked, after a few, moments' pause. 
               "I found it on the parlor carpet last evening," replied Lucy, bursting into tears. 
               But Mrs. Grant could not weep. "We must tell Jesus," she said, laying her hand kindly upon her daughter's head; and the afflicted mother retired to commune with that Friend, who was once "a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief." Mrs. Grant thought it best not to mention the letter to Willie; but that evening she questioned him concerning his future prospects. 
               "What is your decision, my son, in regard to your studies?" she asked, after some preliminary remarks. 
               "I do not think I shall pursue them further," the young man replied, with evident embarrassment. 
               "What can have changed your mind, Willie?" said his mother, seriously. "I thought it was a duty pressing upon your heart and life to preach the gospel." 
               "I thought so too, once, mother; but it seems differently now. I am not fit for the gospel ministry." 
               "Has this change come from new views of duty, or has some other cause produced it?" she asked. 
               "I am sure duty does not call me to preach the gospel in my present state of mind," said Willie, rising and walking the floor, evidently much disturbed. "I may be in a wrong condition, but one thing is settled, I shall never be a minister." 
               "I would not press you, my son," replied his mother, solemnly; "but remember one thing,-the vows of God are upon you, and you can not turn from the path of duty without peril to your own soul. I hope you have made it a subject of prayer and serious thought before deciding so firmly." 
                
               Willie made no reply, and his mother continued;- 
               "If you relinquish this, what do you purpose to do, my son?" 
               "I have not thought much about it, mother," said the young man, humbly. "Yet I ought to be doing something. Indeed, I ought!" said he, as if the subject had just presented itself to his mind. "Perhaps I had better teach," he said, musingly. "My old teacher wrote me of a situation with his brother in the old Bay State, and I think I will accept it." 
               Mrs. Grant, hoping that time and absence from temptation might effect a change, and bring her son back to the path of duty, said nothing of what she had observed, but with many warnings, and much good advice, she left him to act as he thought proper in choosing his future vocation. 
               That evening Willie retired to his chamber ber in no enviable state of mind. His mother's words had stirred the fountains of thought and feeling. Conscience lashed into a fury the deep waters of his soul, and he paced his chamber hour after hour, regardless of fatigue or of the rapid flight of time. 
               "A pretty minister I should make!" he muttered at last. "A gambler and a wine-bibber! Oh, Mary Harlow," he hissed between his teeth, "how you have ruined me!" 
               "Yes, I must leave this very week," he said, more composedly, after a pause. "But that debt!" and he put his hand to his head thoughtfully. "Yes, it must be done," he continued; and he took from his pocket a gold watch, and gazed long and musingly. "Yes, it must be done," he repeated. "I must not leave it unsettled, or father will be called upon, and then all will come to the light;" and with a sigh he placed the watch in the pretty case his sister had made for it, and lay down, without prayer, to pass the remainder of the night in fitful dreams, and tossings to and fro. 
               In the morning he left home, professedly to mail a letter to his old teacher; but this done, he continued his walk to the village of Scranton. Entering a jeweler's shop, he said a few words to the attendant, at the same time producing his watch. 
               Mr. Healy examined it carefully, and pronounced it a valuable article. 
               "You have a small bill against me," said Willie, carelessly. 
               Mr. Healy knew him during the two years he attended school at Scranton as an honest, upright young man. He had not hesitated to trust him for a considerable amount, especially as he gave his father's name as security. 
                
               Hoping to retrieve his fortunes when he should have learned to play better, William had gone on betting with Mary Harlow, depending upon his credit with Mr. Healy, until he found himself almost irretrievably in debt. 
               Turning to his books, the merchant read the articles charged,-one set of jewelry, one bracelet, two gold rings, and other small ornaments of minor importance. 
               "This watch will cover the whole amount?" inquired Willie, anxiously. 
               The man seemed for a few moments to weigh in his own mind the claims of each. 
               "It will within three dollars," he said, thoughtfully. "I can not allow more than this for the watch. True it is valuable, but it has been in use some years." 
               "But I wish to pay the debt to-day, and have not come prepared to advance anything but the watch. I think it ought to be sufficient," said Willie, somewhat impatiently. 
               "I know Allen Grant by reputation, and consider him a man responsible for the whole amount," said the jeweler, with a keen look in Willie's face. 
               "I intend to cancel the debt before I leave," said Will, drawing from his finger a heavy gold ring. "Will this suffice?" 
               The man pronounced it satisfactory, and gave a receipt in full. 
               "Confound it!" muttered Will, as he left the shop. "What will Lucy say? Her ring has gone overboard." 
               Amid the bustle of preparation for Will's departure, Lucy thought not of her ring until he was gone. 
               "Willie has worn my ring away," she said to her mother the morning after he left. "I've half a mind to say nothing about it, but then it was dear aunt Lucy's, and he has the watch to remember her by." 
               "And may that watch prove a guard against temptation," observed her mother. "Surely he can never look upon it without being reminded of poor Lucy's last words to him as she placed it in his hands. 'Its constant note of time,' said she, 'will remind you, my boy, that the hour draweth near when you must give an account unto God. May its busy hands teach you that what you do must be done quickly, and for the glory of God.'" 
               "Dear aunt Lucy! How much she thought of Willie, and how anxious she was that be should preach the gospel," said Lucy, the tears almost blinding her. 
               "I know it, dear. It seems so mysterious that he should turn away from this calling so suddenly; especially when we would have assisted him, so as to make it easy to prepare himself." 
               Thus the mother and sister talked of the absent loved one, while he was entering upon new scenes of temptation and trial. 
               The situation to which Willie had been invited was that of Assistant Principal in the Academy at Langdon. His old teacher, Mr. Edward Thornton, understanding Willie would be obliged to teach a while, even if he pursued his studies, recommended him to Mr. Robert Thornton, Preceptor of Langdon Academy, as a young man of fine abilities, good moral character, and well calculated to honor the position now vacant in that school. 
               This recommendation drew forth the confidence of Mr. Thornton, and secured for Willie privileges which few young men could have obtained from that gentleman. The preceptor prided himself upon the high reputation of his school, and sought to sustain it by bringing into its ranks superior talents and influence. 
               When Willie left Mapleville, he thought to leave behind him the evil consequences of his winter's dissipation. But bad habits, once formed, often cling to us like the seeds of a fatal disease, and without the interposition of God's grace, may at any moment break through all restraint, and bring utter ruin upon us. 
               There had been remorse and shame for his sin, but no true repentance yet in the heart of Willie Grant. He was not really humbled, or he would have sought for that aid which is promised to all who seek it. True, he turned his back upon temptation; but, like Jonah, he was fleeing from the path of duty, and must expect to plunge still deeper in misery and wretchedness. 
               "A pack of cards, and a Bible!" exclaimed claimed his room-mate, carelessly lifting the lid of Willie's trunk about a month after that young man's arrival. 
               Willie turned pale with apprehension. 
               "The property of a young acquaintance! I really did not know they were there," he said, in his haste to ward off suspicion. 
               Willie spoke truly. He had slipped them thoughtlessly into his pocket the last time he was with Mary Harlow. Having no good opportunity to dispose of them while at his father's house, he had deposited them beneath some articles of clothing in his trunk, and forgot the circumstance. Amid the disarrangement of unpacking they had come to light unobserved by Willie. 
               "Which, the Bible or the cards?" inquired the listener to his explanatory speech. 
               Willie laughed. 
               "The cards, of course. I am not ashamed of my Bible." 
                
               Tom Rawlins looked as if he did not believe this, especially as he had never seen Willie use it since his arrival. 
               "I do not object to the cards; but I thought them in strange company," said Rawlins, shuffling the bits of pasteboard familiarly. 
               "I guess they are not with strangers now," remarked Grant, observing the quick motions of Rawlins's fingers. 
               "Well, not exactly," Tom replied. "I rather like a game now and then. But you know these things must be kept quiet here. Some birds with fine feathers might take offense. They say they have all kinds of games in Thornton's parlor, and I don't see much difference between such things and cards." 
               "Is there much card-playing among the scholars?" asked Grant, curiously. 
               "Of course we don't trust strangers," replied plied Rawlins, eyeing Grant keenly; "but these cards are a pretty good recommendation for you; so I say, yes;-among a certain set," he added. 
               Tom Rawlins was in great glee at the discovery he had made concerning the new teacher, for his comrades had told him he would have to walk pretty straight if Grant roomed with him. Indeed, it was more than half suspected that the preceptor had made this arrangement, to break up the merry company which often assembled in Rawlins's room. Had not Willie been shorn of his strength by yielding to temptation, or had he been truly humbled before God in view of his sin, he might have been an instrument of great good to those wayward youth among whom he was about to be thrown. 
               Willie felt most keenly the loss he had sustained, when he returned one evening to his room to find several of Tom's companions gathered about a table, upon which stood a bottle of whiskey, several glasses, and the stakes laid down by the party, who were earnestly engaged in a game of cards. The curious glances and the low laugh revealed the fact that Rawlins had given his opinion of the new comer, based upon the circumstance of finding the cards in Willie's trunk. 
               The young teacher felt he was in their power, and resolved to make the best of it. He did not wish to lose his place, and he feared one word from Rawlins to the preceptor would arouse suspicion, and destroy that confidence which Mr. Thornton now reposed in him. 
               Walking directly toward the table, he seated himself, with an unembarrassed air, apparently watching the game with deep interest as it progressed. 
                
               "Fairly won!" exclaimed Rawlins, gathering up the stakes. 
               "Come, Grant, lend a hand," said he, as some of the party made preparations for leaving. 
               "Not for money," replied Grant. 
               "Oh, well, we always make way for greenhorns," returned Rawlins. "For fun then, that will do for once." 
               Grant burned with a desire to let Tom know he would find something more than a greenhorn in him. Willie's practiced eye showed him that they were indifferent players, and the touch of the cards thrilled him with something of the old desire to win. 
               "Confound it! I can do better than that!" exclaimed Rawlins, at the end of one game, showing Grant the winner. 
               "I want something to stimulate me," said Tom, taking a glass of whiskey, and laying down a small stake. 
                
               Grant felt sure he should win, and his pockets did need replenishing sadly. His quarter's pay would not be due for some time, and meanwhile he must suffer some inconvenience from the want of money. He yielded to the temptation, and won the stake. 
               Rawlins was desperate. "I will double this time," said he, dealing out the cards anew. 
               Grant's success prepared him for greater hazard, and he played again, still winning. 
               It was now time to break up, or late hours might attract more attention than would be agreeable; so the company dispersed, and none of them with more dissatisfaction at the evening's performance than Willie Grant. 
               From the gate of temptation there is a swift descent, and this Willie found to be true when he consented to play with Tom Rawlins and his companions. Evening after evening found them at the gaming table, Willie sometimes losing, but oftener winning. 
               'We'll take our gentleman down a little to-night," whispered Tom Rawlins to a companion, as they left the Academy grounds. "Ben Hooker is in town, and has promised to call on us. If he doesn't make Grant smart for the dollars he's taken out of us, I'll lose my guess. Come over, if you wish to see the fun." 
               Little did Willie Grant know of the fate that awaited him, as he sat down to play with Ben Hooker. How could the young teacher divine that to this smooth-tongued young man every mark upon those bits of pasteboard were as familiar a A, B, C; especially when the first, second, and third stakes passed so quickly into Grant's hands? 
               "I did not expect to find such talent in Langdon," Hooker said, bowing politely to the young teacher. "I consider myself able to detect a fine player, and must say I have found one." 
               The flattery did its intended work, and again Grant won. Each time the stakes were doubled, until two hundred dollars faced Willie as lost money. 
               Intending to retrieve this, and more, Grant consented to play for five hundred. For a moment the terrible risk flashed across his mind, and with desperate rashness he poured a glass of liquor, and drank it. 
               In a frenzy of excitement, Grant bent every faculty to the play, but lost the game. Starting suddenly to his feet, he felt a hand upon his shoulder, and turned to confront Mr. Thornton, who had entered unobserved by any one! 
               Willie essayed to speak, but the thickly uttered words revealed more than Mr. Thornton had feared. "I will see you tomorrow," he said, and left the room. 
               For a few moments Grant stood petrified, then rushed into the street. All the disgrace of his present situation passed before him. He knew what to-morrow would bring,-a dishonorable discharge, irretrievable debt, and disgrace at home and abroad. 
               On, on, he walked, caring little whither he went, if he could but leave Langdon and its recollections behind. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               MORE ABOUT THE GRANTS. 
               MRS. GRANT and Lucy waited long and patiently for a letter from the absent son and brother. He had informed them of his safe arrival in Langdon, but nothing more. 
               At length Mrs. Grant wrote to Mr. Thornton, and received in reply that Willie had left suddenly, but had given no one any account of his future destination. His father visited the preceptor, and learned the particulars of his disgraceful conduct, and returned home to mourn over Willie as a lost son. Not so with the mother: she laid hold of the promises of God, and believed her wayward boy would be brought back to the paths of virtue and peace. This hope kept her cheerfully employed in the discharge of present duties, and, if possible, more careful in the training of those children who were still under her care and direction. 
               "I don't see what makes you all so glad to see the Sabbath," said Bertie Gray, watching the little ones, as they ran to and fro; making preparations for the holy day. "I always find it a rather dull time." 
               He was at Mr. Grant's, and Lucy looked up with surprise. 
               "Then you can not spend it so agreeably as we do," she said. "I think it the most pleasant day of the week; and I believe Mamie and Ben, and even little Fred, thinks so too." 
                
               As if in reply to her words, the children began singing those pretty lines:- 
                      
                        "Oh, the Sabbath morning, beautiful and bright; 
                        Joyfully we hail its golden light." 
                     
                  
                
               "I declare, I never saw such children," Bertie said. "If they were my brothers and sister, I shouldn't expect them to live long." 
               Lucy smiled. 
               "They are pretty good children, but I do not think they will die any sooner on that account," she said, more seriously. "Good children are just the right ones to grow up and prove a blessing in the world." 
               "But I thought pious children never lived to grow up. My little sister didn't," replied Bertie, with a sigh. 
               "I hope you do not think piety any occasion for an early death," said Lucy, with some astonishment. 
               "Not exactly. Yet I believe I did feel somewhat so, until I became acquainted with you," said he, with a bright smile. 
               "Lucy, Lucy, is this a Sabbath-day book!" cried ten-year-old Ben, running through the open door, followed by his sister, a girl of twelve years. "Mamie says it is." 
               "I know papa used it is explaining something Rome," said the girl, apologetically. 
               Lucy remarked that as it was an historical work, papa might have referred to it while talking of Bible scenes, but altogether it was not a Sabbath book. 
               The children were satisfied, and returned to their work. 
               "I should like to see them maneuver," said Bertie, listening to their merry voices. 
               Lucy led the way to the pretty little sitting-room where the children were so busily engaged. It was late on Saturday afternoon noon. Mrs. Grant, having finished her preparations for the Sabbath, had gone out to visit a sick neighbor, leaving the children, as she said, to "clear up," under Lucy's supervision. Every article used in the week's labor had found its regular place through the children's hands. 
               The playthings were safely deposited in a large closet kept for the children's use; even little four-year-old Fred, tugging at his little cart, was vainly endeavoring to arrange it with some degree of order among the other things. All the secular newspapers were neatly folded, and assigned their snug corner; while the books, scattered here and there, were being collected, and safely locked in the well-filled library. 
               Meanwhile the children's busy tongues were discussing the bright anticipations of to-morrow. 
               "Papa has promised to tell me about the 
                   
                     THE SABBATH LIBRARY, Page 169. 
                  
                  
                   pretty ladies of Persia, and what they did in Queen Esther's time," said the bright-eyed Mamie, helping Bennie to place a large book upon a high shelf. 
               "And he is going to tell me about Paul's shipwreck, and the place where they all landed so safely," quoth the little fellow, jumping down from the chair he had brought to assist in arranging the book-case. 
               "Do you exclude books from Sabbath use?" asked Bertie, with a bewildered look at Lucy. 
               The girl took a key from her pocket, and opened another bookcase, almost as large as the first, and bade Bertie examine its contents. "That is our Sabbath library," she said, "and the children have free access to it on the Sabbath, but on no other day." 
               "Why on no other day?" Bertie asked, with surprise. 
                
               "Father is very particular about this," replied Lucy. "He spares no expense in obtaining books, maps, and engravings that will explain the Bible, and render it attractive. Now these things need careful usage, and on the Sabbath our parents are always present to protect them from unnecessary injury. But there is one fact more important than this. He thinks the children would soon lose their keen relish for this kind of instruction if familiarized with it every day. They have their school lessons and other books during the week, but these are reserved fresh and pure for the holy Sabbath. I do not suppose little Fred would go into ecstasy over his Sunday cards if allowed to handle them every day through the week," she said, pointing to the little fellow, who was vainly endeavoring to draw Bertie's attention toward the child's own Sabbath treasure. 
                
               "Freddie's Sabba-day!" cried the little one, joyfully, as Bertie removed the cover from a box displaying beautiful bright colored cards and numerous pictures. 
               "'Gentle Jesus, meek and mild,'" repeated Freddie, pointing with his little fat finger to those beautiful lines printed upon a card. 
               "Jesus loves Freddie," he said, raising is large dark eyes to Bertie's face. "And Freddie loves Jesus, too," he added, a bright, happy smile spreading over the little fellow's countenance. 
               "Do you believe that boy understands what he says?' Bertie asked, as Freddie, with childish zeal, began picking up his whip, and other small playthings which still remained to be put away. 
               "Certainly," replied Lucy. "He often manifests a Christian spirit in his desire to please the Saviour, and nothing grieves that little one more than to know he has done anything to offend the blessed Jesus." 
               "Is it possible for a child to become a Christian so young?" asked Bertie, with much feeling. 
               "I think children may understand the simple truths of the gospel, when properly taught, sooner than is generally believed," said Lucy, thoughtfully. "I well remember when my mother first showed me a picture of Christ blessing little children,-I could not be more than six years of age,-and of my desire to be thus blessed by the loving Saviour. When told he was near me, and I might tell him all my little joys and sorrows, and he would kindly listen, just like my mother, I was very happy, and began from that day to tell Jesus all my heart, firmly believing he heard and answered." 
                
               "And do you feel so now?" returned Bertie, quickly. 
               "I have never lost sight of the sweet promise, 'Seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you,'" said Lucy, flushing slightly. "Yes," she continued, turning toward Bertie with a bright smile, "I have ever found Jesus faithful to his word; and I can say those early impressions have grown with my growth, and strengthened with my strength. 
                      
                        'Oh, make but trial of his love, 
                        Experience will decide, 
                        How blest are they, and only they, 
                        Who in his truth confide.'" 
                     
                  
                
               Bertie went away much moved. The testimony of this youthful disciple made a deep impression upon his mind, and he resolved that he would some time become the happy possessor of the same excellent faith. 
               Bertie's visits at Mr. Grant's were producing ducing a marked change in the outward deportment of the young man. This his parents observed, and encouraged the intercourse. 
               He was never weary of hearing about their pleasant Sabbaths, and each week Bennie rehearsed much of the Sabbath lesson, at the request of his friend Bertram Gray. 
               "I do not see how you find so much time for conversation and Bible study," Bertie remarked, in the presence of Mrs. Grant. "You always attend church; even Freddie half of the day." 
               "We should not feel justified in absenting ourselves from the house of God," remarked Mrs. Grant. "Yet we find our Sabbath lesson quite as indispensable. We usually devote the mornings, and sometimes the evenings, to conversation with the older children. Then I give the afternoon to Freddie, while the rest of the family are at church. Half a day I consider quite enough for the restless little fellow to attend. 
               "We never press the children upon any subject, but change to something else, or lay study aside altogether whenever symptoms of weariness appear. Our object is to make the Sabbath a pleasant as well as a profitable day. We also wish to make home attractive, and for this object we never think money misspent. Poor Willie!" she said, as if the remembrance pained her; "we allowed him to spend much of his youth away from home, that he might enjoy better school privileges. It was a mistake which we now deeply regret." 
               Again the long cold winter passed away, and Bertie bade adieu to this daily intercourse with the Grants, and made preparations for leaving home. He was now in his twentieth year, and his father thought it time for him to learn a trade. 
               A carpenter in Scranton needed an apprentice, and Mr. Gray wished Bertie to secure the place. His services were not needed on the farm; and as he showed some mechanical talent, his father thought it would be well for Bertie to become a carpenter. 
               He spent his Sabbaths at home, and Saturday evening often found him listening to Bennie Grant's plans for the coming day, or questioning Mrs. Grant or Lucy concerning some theory he had heard advanced by his fellow-workmen. 
               "What do you consider works of necessity, Mrs. Grant?" Bertie inquired one evening while discussing what work should be done upon the Sabbath, and what should not. 
               "Those kind attentions which prevent actual suffering to man or beast," said Mrs. Grant. 
               "If a farmer has a load of hay exposed to bad weather on Saturday, and unless he takes care of it upon the pleasant Sabbath which follows it will be injured and rendered useless, will he be doing a work of necessity in giving it his attention?" asked Bertie, by way of argument. 
               "The hay may be lost, but no one suffers except in his pocket," said Lucy. 
               "But his cattle may suffer for want of the hay," suggested Bertie. 
               "The hay can be replaced by money, or the cattle may be sold," remarked Mrs. Grant. "There will be no hazard of life or health. It is merely a matter of dollars and cents; and the man who can not trust his heavenly Father in such a case, by keeping his commands, may have cause to remember the curse pronounced against those who kept not his Sabbaths in olden time. God has many ways in which he can take from us that which has been obtained by unholy means, or he can bestow what we apparently lose by walking in the path of duty." 
               "Oh, mother, don't you think our teacher wanted me to come and see her to-morrow!" said Mamie, with ill-suppressed indignation. 
               "What did you say?" asked Lucy, willing to draw the child out. 
               "I told her it was the Sabbath, and it would be wrong," replied Mamie. "I said I would come Wednesday afternoon, if convenient." 
               "Did she say you might come?" asked her mother. 
               "She said she couldn't have me Wednesday. It was her father's day. She always goes to see her poor sick father then. She couldn't disappoint him, for he would expect her." 
                
               "Well, how was it decided?" asked Lucy. 
               "I told her to-morrow was my heavenly Father's day, and he would expect to see me in his house, and I must not disappoint him." 
               Bertie laughed. "What did she say to that?" he asked. 
               "She said she guessed I had a good mother," said Mamie, glancing lovingly at the mild, sweet face, now tearful with emotion; "and she must arrange to have me come some Saturday, which I promised to do if mother could spare me." 
               Mrs. Grant sought in all these interviews to impress Bertie's mind with a sense of personal obligation in matters of religious interest. At times she hoped his heart was touched by the Spirit of God, yet he gave no outward sign, and she remained in doubt. 
               When Bertie had acquired his trade, and proposed taking Lucy as his companion for life, Mrs. Grant shrank from the proposal, lest her daughter's spiritual life should suffer by her connection with an unbeliever. 
               "Bertie is so upright in life, and thoughtful on religious subjects; besides, you sometimes think he is a Christian now." Thus reasoned the daughter and the father, bearing away the scruples of the conscientious mother. 
               They were united, and a happy home in the village of Scranton testified to the love and care of each for the other. 
               For a year or two Bertie obtained work enough. Then came dull times, and he found himself unable to meet the expenses of his little family. 
               "Good news!" he said, as he one day entered his home. "I don't know, however, as you will call it so," he added, passing a letter to Lucy. It was from his cousin at Fairfield, stating that the village was rapidly increasing, and an abundance of work would be furnished to a carpenter, with a prospect of good wages. 
               "Shall we go?" Bertie asked, as Lucy finished reading the letter. 
               "Why not?" Lucy asked, in return. 
               "I did not know that you would be willing to live so far from your parents," he said, kindly; "or that they would be willing to part with you." 
               "I do not think they will object," replied Lucy. "Mamie and Ben are nearly grown up, and are such good children, that I feel father and mother are well provided for without me. I can see them often, you know, with the present facilities for travel. But I should like to know their minds," she added, reflectively. "Suppose we leave the decision until we hear from all our parents." Bertie consented. 
                
               When the matter was mentioned to Mr. Gray, he shook his head. "I have seen enough of Fairfield," he said. "I would never encourage you to go there." 
               This was said to Bertie alone, but it touched the young man's feelings. 
               "Am I a child, father, that you are afraid to trust me?" he asked. "I do not think you should hold me responsible through life for my boyish follies." 
               "Far be it from me to discourage you, my son," replied the father; "but, without the grace of God, you will always be in danger in the hour of temptation. With a faith founded upon Christ, and in lively exercise, I would trust you the world over." 
               But there was no opposition from any other quarter, so it was decided the little family should remove to the old Bay State, without further delay. 
               Eight years had wrought changes in Fairfield field. Esquire Bateman, and the seene of Bertie's disgraceful discharge, had passed away, and a commodious dwelling-house occupied the old stand. 
               Nathan Smith's saloon had given place to a more imposing edifice, and the sign, "Fairfield House," extended an invitation to the passing traveler to look within. Bertram Gray, remembering his past experience, declined this invitation, as he passed to and from his daily toil, satisfied no better company could be found than his cheerful little wife and innocent babe. 
               Most of his old associates had disappeared from the village, and Bertram found little to remind him of his sad downfall, except the occasional appearance of poor Tommy Jones, who, with the same persistence, continued to mutter, "Bad man," whenever he shambled along the streets of the village. 
               Lucy was very happy in her new home, although she found little opportunity for other scenes or other duties. With the care of her household, and the company of her little child, the days glided swiftly past, bringing an increase of happiness in the thought that she was living to the glory of God while in the discharge of present duties, however small. There were no regrets for fields of usefulness beyond the reach of her busy, hands, and as she watched the growing intelligence of her darling Josie, she was assured that no more important station awaited woman than that filled by the faithful wife and mother. 
               One morning Lucy was much surprised to receive a polite invitation for herself and husband to attend a social gathering at Dr. Hartley's. She had formed but few acquaintances, and among them the doctor's family stood first in her estimation. 
               "I should like to go ever so much," she said, after repeating the invitation to her husband. "But I can not, so no more need be said about it." 
               "But why, my dear?" asked her husband. "I have already accepted the invitation in my own mind, and supposed you would do the same." 
               "But Josie, dear,"-and the young mother pointed to the sleeping babe. 
               "You surely can get some one to take the care of him for one evening," said the young husband, quickly. 
               "No one whom I could trust," replied the mother. "I could not leave him with an entire stranger. The only available person is Rhoda Barnes, a girl of twelve years, and I know nothing of her qualifications as nurse." 
               Bertram Gray always yielded to the superior judgment of his wife in household matters, so he concluded to stay at home rather than risk the health or life of his darling boy. 
               Upon the evening appointed for the gathering, Lucy sat awaiting the return of her husband for tea, when Mrs. Darwin entered. 
               "An't you going to the party?" she asked, with surprise, observing Lucy quietly holding her babe, without any appearance of preparation for the evening's entertainment. 
               "No, Mrs. Darwin. I couldn't leave Josie with proper care, so I have concluded to stay to home." 
               "Dear me! I don't see how you can stay away. I have three little ones, and I told Mr. Darwin I wouldn't miss of going for six children." 
               "I suppose you left them with some responsible person," replied Lucy; "and that makes a difference." 
               "I have left them alone," said the woman. "I couldn't get any one very easily. You know we live rather out of the way, and the girls are afraid to stay there in the evening; so I put the children to bed and locked them safely into the house." 
               "But how dare you!" exclaimed Lucy. "Supposing they should be sick, or the house should get on fire." 
               "Oh, I guess they will do well enough. Lina is seven, and very womanly for her years. I told her not to get up, and not to touch the fire if she did. Ned and Ralph are so little they will sleep like pigs." 
               "Why! I shouldn't take a moment's peace," said Lucy, clasping her babe still closer in her arms. 
               "Well, if I didn't leave them alone sometimes, I should never go, and I can not stay at home always," said the woman, as she left. 
               Lucy shuddered several times that evening ing, as she thought of those three little children alone in that large house. 
               Nine o'clock had come and gone, and Lucy was making preparations for retiring, when the cry of fire fell upon her ear. 
               Mr. Gray rushed into the street, and Lucy hastened to the door. 
               "It is Darwin's house; it will be burnt to ashes," she heard a man say, as he hastened past to the scene of the disaster. 
               "O God, have mercy upon that poor mother!" prayed Lucy, as she knelt beside her child's cradle to thank her heavenly Father for the grace given her to resist temptation; else she too might have been called to drink of the bitter cup now held to her neighbor's lips. 
               Mr. Gray returned to say that no trace of the children could be found, and undoubtedly they had perished in the flames. The house was nearly consumed when discovered ered by a passing friend, and the distracted mother was vainly calling upon every one she met to give her back her children. 
               Months passed away, but reason never returned to Mrs. Darwin; and as she wandered here and there, seeking, in imagination, for her little ones, Lucy was always reminded of that dreadful night when the poor mother preferred the love of pleasure to the call of duty. 
               Lucy often heard from Mapleville, but no tidings reached her of her missing brother. She had long since mourned him as dead, when one day the door-bell rang, and she found upon the steps a man whose feeble appearance indicated either sickness or old age. His thick beard and long hair nearly hid his face from view, but there was something familiar about the eyes, as he raised them, and asked,- 
               "Do you not know me, Lucy?" 
                
               "Can this be brother Willie?" she asked, reaching forth her hand, and drawing the stranger within the door. 
               "What is left of him," replied the poor wanderer, bursting into tears. 
               "But are you really glad to see me, Lucy?" he asked, in a childish way, when he became more composed. 
               Lucy pushed back the long hair, and kissed the pale forehead, then, in a motherly way, began preparing some nourishment for her sick guest. 
               "I heard you were here, and thought I would come," he said, sipping his tea; "but I don't know how Bertram will feel about my staying long. I am sick, but shall not trouble any one a great while," he added, after a paroxysm of coughing. 
               "Don't trouble yourself, brother," Lucy said, gently. "Bertie is always glad to see our friends, and you will be welcome as long as you wish to stay." 
               This assurance seemed to comfort the poor young man, and he soon fell into a sound sleep; for Lucy had persuaded him to retire to rest after his wearisome journey. 
               "You cannot think who has come," she said, looking very happy, yet quite pale, as her husband returned from his work that evening. "Brother Willie," she said, in answer to Bertie's inquiring look. 
               "In answer to your mother's prayer of faith," said the young man, fervently. 
               "We must do all we can for him," was his response, after Lucy had spoken of his condition. "For your mother's sake we must get him well, if possible." 
               The next morning Willie was brighter, but very feeble. Bertie assured him of his readiness to do all in his power for him, and bade the poor fellow make himself at home. 
                
               Dr. Hartley was called in, who said Willie needed careful nursing more than medicine, and left with the injunction to Mrs. Gray to keep up her brother's spirits. 
               Lucy thought to write immediately to her mother, but Willie pleaded so hard for her to wait a while that she consented, with the hope that he might be better in a few weeks. 
               A fortnight brought some strength of body, but there was evidently much depression of spirits. He had never spoken of the past, and his sister forbore questioning him upon the subject. 
               One day he sat a long time silent, and apparently thoughtful. 
               "Does mother know of what happened while I was in Langdon?" he asked. 
               "She wrote to Mr. Thornton, and received in reply that you had left, but he knew not of your destination," replied Lucy, evasively. 
                
               "Don't you know why I left?" he again asked, casting a quick, earnest glance at his sister. 
               "How should we?" returned his sister, when you never told any one." 
               "But you must know," he said, after a pause. 
               Then he told her the substance of what has been already related, of his gambling with Tom Rawlins and his companions, also of the discovery by Mr. Thornton, and his own disgraceful flight. 
               Lucy was very glad to hear her brother's confession, for she thought it indicated a penitent spirit. She did not wish to force him to this acknowledgment, so she had evaded his questioning. 
               Then followed the story of his subsequent wanderings. From Langdon he went to New York, and entered a store as clerk. For a time he did well, then temptation again assailed him, and he fell. Involved in debt, and half crazy with remorse, he again fled still further west. But for him there seemed no success, no peace. He knew and felt that he was fleeing from the path of duty, yet he could not make up his mind to obey the voice which was sounding with thunder tones in his conscience, "This is the way, walk ye in it." 
               He wandered from place to place, but with failing health, and increasing unhappiness. 
               A few months previous he had met an old school friend, who told him of Lucy's marriage, and of her present place of residence. "Then I thought I would come to you," he said, "for I could not think of meeting my mother under present circumstances." 
               "But do you know, Willie, that you are staying away from your very best friends,-your mother, and you God?" and tears testified tified of the sympathy with which she had listened to her brother's recital. 
               "Yes, Lucy, I am well aware of that, but how can I go to either in my present doleful condition?" he asked, with much emotion. 
               "Do you remember, Willie, when you was quite young, you disobeyed mother, and went on the ice, with other boys, and that the ice broke, and you came near drowning?" 
               "Yes, Lucy; and when Tom Barker drew me out, I was nearly senseless." 
               "In your wet and doleful condition did you stay away, or did you go directly home?" asked Lucy. 
               "I could do nothing else but go home," replied Willie. "Chilled, and half dead with fright, my first desire was to see mother. I knew she would take better care of me than any one else. Yes," he added, with much emotion, "she was so glad to get her little boy safely back again that she actually forgot to chide me." 
               "And yet you stay away from her love and forgiveness now," responded Lucy. "Oh, Willie, you know not a mother's heart! By its unbounded affection we can have some faint conception of the unfathomable love of our dear Redeemer." 
               Willie sat for a long time in a thoughtful attitude. 
               "I think, Lucy, were it not for one thing, I could go back to Mapleville," he said, at length. "I could not meet Mary Harlow," he replied to Lucy's questioning glance. 
               "Did you care so much for her, Willie?" asked Lucy, with some astonishment. 
               "Not that, Lucy;" and the look of disgust which passed over his countenance spoke more plainly than words. "She first tempted me from the path of duty, and I fear I could never meet her with feelings of forgiveness," he said, bitterly. 
               "Probably you will never meet her again, Willie. She is in New York, and is more an object of pity than of censure," replied Lucy, seriously. "She married a worthy man, but her extravagant habits unfitted her for the cares of a family, and she is now in an insane asylum, the victim of wine drinking and card playing." 
               "The Lord forgive me, Lucy," said the young man, after a pause. "Had I been as faithful in my work for God, as this poor deluded girl in her service of the world, Mary Harlow might have been a useful and honored woman, instead of the worthless thing she has become. We can never estimate our sin until we know what might have been gained, as well as what has been lost. Alas! I knew my duty, and did it not; and yet here I am, cherishing feelings of bitterness toward one who may be less a sinner in the sight of God than myself;" and the poor invalid covered his face with his hand, and groaned aloud. 
               Willie was truly humbled. He saw that pride, like a canker, was eating out the very life of hope and faith, and in order to be at peace with himself or his God, he must lie low at the foot of the cross. 
               He now consented that Lucy should write to his mother, and gave himself up to the direction of his friends without a murmur. 
               "If I only can be forgiven, it is all I ask," he said, penitently. "Why should I, who am such a sinner, dictate terms to God or man." 
               Mrs. Grant was very thankful to receive her son again to his old home; but especially to hear his penitent confessions of sin, and his joyful hope of pardon. His health improved somewhat after his return to Mapleville, but he still remained quite feeble. 
               "I shall never be able to preach the gospel now, mother," he said, leaning languidly in his chair, some months after his return. "I shall only be a burden as long as I live. A poor, useless burden," he repeated, regretfully. 
               "Not useless, my son," replied his mother. "No one need lead a useless life in this world; and if there is a willing mind, our heavenly Father will point out some work for you yet." 
               Willie was able to ride a short distance, and his mother usually accompanied him in these excursions. One day she turned the carriage into a new and unfrequented road. Mrs. Grant replied, in answer to Willie's inquiries, that she had a friend in this direction upon whom she desired to call. 
                
               Arriving in sight of a small log hut, Willie's attention was arrested by a sort of unique carriage, upon which sat, or rather leaned, a frail, deformed girl, of perhaps twelve years. The curious looking vehicle had been drawn under the shade of a large tree, and around it stood several children, of a dark copper color, who instantly fled as Mrs. Grant and her son approached. 
               Mrs. Grant drove directly to the child's side, and accosted her. "Well, Annie, your little birds appear less fearful of you to-day. Will they accept food from your hand?" 
               "A few crumbs, Mrs. Grant," and a pair of sweet blue eyes were lifted to her face. 
               "Perhaps you will find something here that will prove an attraction," said the lady, passing to the child's hand a small package of brightly colored cards. 
               "Oh, thank you. These will help me so much;" and a bright smile overspread the child's face. "You must take this in return;" she said; "it is all I have." 
               It was a curiously wrought little basket; and Willie asked, as he took it in his hand, "Did you make it yourself, little girl?" 
               Receiving an affirmative answer, Mrs. Grant introduced her son, telling him this was Miss Annie Moulton. 
               "You must teach me to make such pretty baskets, Miss Moulton," said Willie, surveying the tiny trinket with a smile. 
               "Call me Annie," said the child. "I never was called Miss Moulton," she added, with grieved lip. 
               "Well, Annie, then. Will you teach me to make baskets if I will come over some day?" 
               "Red Wing could teach you better," she said; "but I will try." 
               "Who, and what is this child?" asked Willie, when they turned once more toward home. 
               "Annie Moulton, or simply Annie, as she persists in being called, is a poor, deformed, yet earnest Christian child," said Mrs. Grant, in answer to Willie's question. 
               "But was she always in this condition?" he asked. 
               "No; she was a beautiful child, full of life and activity only two years ago. Reaching for berries on the craggy side of the mountain, just beyond her father's house, she slipped and fell several feet upon the sharp rocks below. A friendly Indian, who was hunting in the vicinity, hearing her screams, came to her assistance. He carried her home in his arms, but she has never walked a step since." 
               "Was it Red Wing, to whom she alluded while we were there? 
               "I think they call him so. He taught her to make baskets, and I have seen some elegant specimens of his workmanship." 
               "Who were those children we saw as we approached?" asked Willie. 
               "Some of Red Wing's little friends. There are several families of Indians in the vicinity, and Annie, feeling a strong desire to do something for her Saviour, long importuned her benefactor to bring some of these children to her home; but until lately they could not be persuaded to approach near enough to be spoken to Annie says, for a time they would come to the edge of the wood, and peer cautiously from amid the underbrush, but could not be induced to venture further. One day she took that beautiful picture of Christ blessing little children, and holding it toward a bright little fellow, more courageous than the rest, he advanced within a few feet, and allowed her to talk some minutes, and then receiving a small card from her hand, carried it to his companions as an evidence of his bravery." 
               "But you haven't told me anything about Annie's becoming a Christian," said Willie. "I think you called her a Christian. Do you know the particulars?" 
               Mrs. Grant's eyes filled with tears. 
               "Yes," she replied; "and I have cause to thank God for the knowledge. Mamie first heard of the accident through a school friend. It was evening, and the next day was appointed for an excursion, in which most of the young people were expecting to join. Your sister was anticipating much pleasure from the journey, for they were to take the cars at M--, and this was a novelty to many of our young people. The news of Annie's misfortune, however, turned her thoughts in a different direction. 
               "We knew the family must be very poor, and consequently the child must suffer for many things needed in such an extremity. I was revolving in my own mind what could be done to alleviate her condition, when Mamie spoke of a plan which I had not even thought of. She would stay at home, she said, and taking the money which had been laid aside to defray the expenses of her ride, spend it for such articles as were most needed by Annie, and with these in her hand, visit the little sufferer, and spend the holiday in administering to her comfort and pleasure. I was about remonstrating, when Mamie added, in a low voice, 'I may thus gain her confidence, and be able to benefit her spiritually.' I could not say a word. The Lord had evidently spoken to the child's heart, and it behooved me to keep silence. 
               "Your sister carried out her plans not-withstanding the pleadings of her young friends to the contrary, and spent the day at Mrs. Moulton's, thus binding herself by ties of love and gratitude to the whole family. I need not add, that from that time the heart of little Annie was open to the influence of divine truth; and through the blessing of God upon the earnest efforts of your sister, the child has become, in turn, a worker for Jesus." 
               One morning Mrs. Grant proposed leaving her son at Mr Moulton's, while she rode further to carry work. Willie gladly consented to this, for time often hung heavily upon his hands. 
               He found Annie surrounded by materials for making baskets, with several very pretty specimens already finished. 
               "What do you do with your baskets?" he asked, as an introduction to other subjects. 
               "I sell them now," she replied. "I could not for a long time, but Mamie found a nice man, who will take all that I can make." 
                
               "I suppose you get a lot of money, and buy a great many nice things with it," Willie remarked, carelessly. 
               The full blue eyes rested for a moment upon the young man's face. 
               "I get some money," she replied; "but I give half of it to my mother." 
               "And do you buy candy with the rest?" he asked, with a smile. 
               "The rest belongs to Jesus," she said, in a low tone. 
               Willie saw he was stepping upon holy ground, yet he could not forbear another question. 
               "Should you not give your mother more than half?" he asked. "She waits upon you a great deal every day. What could you do without her?" 
               "I can never pay my mother for what she does for me," said the child, while tears ran down her cheeks; "but Jesus has done more, and it seems so little to offer him less than half." 
               Willie thought, "He that loveth father or mother more than me, is not worthy of me," and comforted the child by repeating the passage, and assuring her she could not love the Saviour too much. 
               After this, Willie often took counsel of little friend, and learned many lessons of wisdom from her infantile lips. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               A DARK HOUR. 
               ONE year passed away since Bertram Gray came to Fairfield. Steady and industrious, he had been enabled to maintain his little family, enjoying many comforts, and some luxuries. He had also been able to lay by a small sum against an unfortunate day. This came in an hour, and in a manner unlooked for. 
               He was a faithful workman, and gave a considerable time to the study of architecture. This enabled him to draw plans and make suggestions, which won the confidence of his employer, who thought to promote him to a more lucrative position. 
               Clinton Chase, a fellow-laborer, had strongly desired this situation, and when he saw it about to be bestowed upon Bertram Gray, he became very angry, and vowed revenge upon the man who thus unconsciously stood in the way of his promotion. He had heard one day, from an old lady, a lengthened account of Bertram's conduct during his previous residence in Fairfield, and resolved to make it subservient to his purpose. 
               "I've no notion of working under a man who gets drunk," remarked Chase, one morning, to a fellow-workman; "and I shall tell Barnes so." 
               "Gets drunk!" exclaimed Guy Bentley. "I thought Gray the steadiest man in our company." 
               "Just ask some people, who have seen him stagger home late at night, what they think," responded Chase, eagerly, "I guess they'll tell a different story." 
               "But Barnes don't suspect any such thing," said Guy, confidently, "or he wouldn't promote him." 
               "I suppose not," returned Chase. "But he ought to know it. I consider it real mean for such men to plan business while others have to do the work." 
               Of course the story spread, and came at length to the ears of the employer, Mr. Barnes. Investigating the affair somewhat, he found it originated with Chase. 
               "I do not wish to say much about it." replied the latter, evasively; "but Deacon Colman's wife told me she had seen him the worse for liquor." 
               This was enough. The world of Deacon Colman's wife was not be questioned, and consequently Gray lost the situation. 
                
               It was not, however, given to Chase. To his extreme mortification he saw it bestowed upon a man of humble pretensions, but far more worthy than himself. Connecting his defeat with the story he had told concerning Gray, Chase set himself to work to injure still further the innocent victim of his malice. He pretended great friendship for Gray, and ascertained, through the confidence thus obtained, that the poison had begun its work. 
               "I don't see what has changed Barnes so," said Gray, one evening, to his companion, who in this case, as frequently of late, proved to be Clinton Chase. "A week ago he gave me encouragement of promotion, but yesterday he informed me that he should need my services but a few days longer." 
               "Well, never mind, friend Gray, you are a good workman, and will get work enough somewhere else." 
                
               "I don't know about that," said the other, despondingly. Everything seems going wrong just now. The job promised me this morning by Tristam Jones, was this noon engaged to another man. I don't see what it all means," he said, musingly. "Every one turns the cold shoulder but, you," he added, with a sad smile. 
               "Oh, ho! You've got the blues, Gray!" exclaimed Chase, slapping his comrade upon the shoulder. "Come home with me, and we'll talk matters over." 
               Gray felt in no mood to sit down with his wife and child. He knew his reticence would call forth questions which he should not wish to answer, for he had foolishly determined to keep his wife in ignorance of his troubles. Chase had no family, but boarded at the "Fairfield House." 
               Full of troublous thoughts, Gray followed his companion into a brilliantly lighted room, handsomely furnished. At several tables sat men in small companies, smoking and chatting merrily. Chase led the way to a table in a retired corner, and drew a curtain to elude observation. 
               "Now, Gray," he began, confidentially, "it is of no use to give up to these things; better face them like a man. I know what it is to have been out of work for months together, but I never gave up yet." 
               "It is different with you," interposed Gray. "You have no to care for but yourself. I have a wife and child. What is to become of them if I am turned out of employment?" 
               "I tell you what it is, Gray, I'll share my pure with you when worst comes to worst. Thank God I have no one to suffer," and Chase rang a small bell which stood upon the table. 
               Gray grasped the hand of Chase, but heard not amid his grateful emotions the few words spoken to the waiter. 
               "You need something to cheer you up," said his companion, as a bottle and some glasses appeared before them. 
               "I don't favor drinking," he said, as Gray shook his head, "but you know the good Book speaks of wine, which maketh glad the heart of man. You are half sick, and need something to strengthen you," he said filling a glass. "Try it, and my word for it you will feel better." 
               The bright sparkle, the odoriferous perfume, strongly re-enforced what Chase had said. Gray knew that some regarded wine as an innocent beverage, and in many families it was used freely; why then should it hurt him to take one glass? 
               He followed his companion's example, and sipped a little. Its flavor was delicious, its effects exhilarating, and he drained his glass without further comment. 
               Gray soon became quite communicative, and talked freely of his former experience in Fairfield. Chase sought not to check him, but rather to encourage his hilarity. The base tempter knew there was listeners, and Gray's present condition would confirm the story which had been reported. Elated with the success of his scheme, Chase pressed his companion to take another glass, which Gray, nothing loth, accepted. 
               "'Tis true, Chase-true as you live-" he stammered, after the third glass; "a fellow does feel better for something good to drink." 
               "But his thickly uttered sentences warned Chase that he had better get his victim into the open air. 
               "A walk! Yes,-anywhere,-with you," answered Gray, with a silly laugh, to Chase's proposal. 
               Once out of doors, Chase directed his companion's unsteady steps toward home. Lucy waited for tea that night until a late hour. Her husband's absence gave her much uneasiness, for she had observed his depression of spirits at dinner; but knowing the encouragement Barnes had given him the week previous, and suspecting nothing to the contrary, she comforted herself with the thought that business detained him with his employer. Two long hours she waited and listened for the well known step; but in vain. 
               Slipping on her shawl, she thought to go out and make some investigations, when a voice arrested her attention. 
               "Fus'rate,-fus'rate fellow," it said, with imperfect utterance. 
               Peering cautiously from the window, she saw her husband's form in the bright moonlight coming toward the house, but the gait was unsteady and unnatural. Frightened with the thought that some injury had befallen him, she rushed to the door, but not before he stood upon its threshold. 
               "What has happened?" she asked, breathlessly. "Why have you been gone so long?" 
               "Can't a fellow go out,-but he must 'count for it," he said, confusedly, holding on to the door. "Let us come in," he cried, glaring wildly at her, as Lucy stood petrified at her husband's appearance. 
               Mechanically she stepped aside as the awful truth flashed upon her mind. Staggering, as with a heavy burden, Gray entered the little sitting-room, and caught at the first object that came in his way to support himself. It was the cradle, and as its slight resistance gave way he fell heavily upon the floor. Lucy sprang forward, but not in time to save her babe a heavy blow upon its head. 
               Its screams aroused the drunken father, only to irritate and annoy him. 
               "Can't you stop that noise," he said, almost fiercely. 
               "Oh, Bertie, you have killed our child!" she sobbed, as the little thing writhed and trembled in her arms. 
               But in vain her appeal. The husband and father was insensible to all natural impulses, and sank into a heavy stupor, only murmuring,- 
               "Such a fuss!-No peace." 
               Hour after hour, through that long, dreadful night, Lucy walked the floor with her moaning babe. 
               The morning light brought consciousness to the poor deluded man. 
               "Up so soon?" he asked, as he opened his eyes and beheld Lucy still holding her babe. 
               "What has happened?" he again asked, noticing her pale, tearful face." Is Josie sick?" and the miserable man attempted to regain his feet. 
               The effort produced a sick, dizzy feeling, and covering his face with his hand, he sank into a chair. 
               As he sat thus, recollection began to return, and he looked up quickly. 
               "Has anything happened to Josie?" he asked, earnestly. 
               Lucy pointed sorrowfully to the poor child's swollen head. 
               "Go for the doctor, Bertie. I fear Josie is very sick," she said, vainly striving to repress the tears. 
               With a dim recollection of what had happened, Gray hastened for Doctor Hartley. 
               "The child has been seriously injured," said the doctor, gravely. "How did this happen?" 
               "He fell from his cradle, striking his head in the fall," replied the mother, painfully embarrassed. 
               Doctor Hartley saw there was trouble, and forbore further questioning. 
               Conscience stricken, and fearfully anxious, Gray could not go to his work that day. 
               Little Josie lay in a heavy stupor, except when fearful spasms shook his feeble frame. Not once did the afflicted parents refer to the cause of their little one's sickness. Lucy saw how much her husband was suffering, and wisely forbore to harass his feelings by reproaches. She even attempted to put on a cheerful exterior, and spoke hopefully of Josie's symptoms. She intended by this course to reach the cause of her husband's troubles, for she felt sure there was something at the bottom of this sudden change in a once steady, upright man. 
               But Bertram Gray was a proud man, and shrank from informing his wife that he had lost the confidence of his employer. Had he done this at the first, her quick womanly instinct might have unraveled the mystery, and set her husband free from the snares spread for his feet. The foolish man thought to avoid this confession altogether, by obtaining employment in some other direction. But all his efforts proved unavailing. Only for a few days at a time could work be obtained, and he saw his little stock of money rapidly diminishing. Worse than all the rest, it melted away still faster in his daily visits to the Fairfield House. 
               He could not forbear thinking of the pleasant interior, when he passed the stately looking building; especially now that the sight of his little son filled him with remorse, and rendered home anything but an agreeable place. 
               The child at length partially recovered his usual health of body, but the bright, intelligent look had given place to a dull, listless aspect, which spoke only too plainly of his future prospects. 
               "How can you bear up so calmly, Mrs. Gray, under such an accumulation of sorrows?" asked Dr. Hartley, when Lucy had confided to him the particulars of that first dreadful night, and also of many subsequent scenes, for the good old doctor had insisted upon knowing all. 
               "'I was dumb, I opened not my mouth, because Thou didst it,'" was the meek reply. 
               "I can not look at it in such a light," replied Dr. Hartley. "I can very readily apprehend how any affliction, direct from the hand of God, can be thus submissively met, but when man stretches out his hand against me, I cannot yield so easily." 
               Mrs. Gray looked perplexed. 
               "I can not conceive of any such distinction," she said, thoughtfully. "To me the hand of God is seen in every event of life. Man may be the agent, and be responsible to God for such agency; but the correction is from the hand of my heavenly Father, and the lesson taught is for me to learn." 
               "Well, well, it may be so, but I suspect you will find many Christians who can not feel as you do." 
               "King David felt so, nevertheless," she said, with a smile. "During the wicked conspiracy of Absalom, when the king was obliged to flee from his palace, and from the holy city, he acknowledged the hand of the Lord was dealing with him. 'Behold, here am I, let him do to me as seemeth good unto him,' were the words which fell from his submissive lips. This humbling and resigning ourselves into the righteous hand of God, is one great end of our chastisement." 
               "Well, more than one ought to learn a lesson from the sad blight of this poor little babe," replied Dr. Hartley, with much feeling. "The man who furnished the liquor for your husband that night has a long account to settle. Something must be done, Mrs. Gray. Something shall be done," he repeated, rising hastily. "I will see Smith this very day." 
               Smith, now the proprietor of the Fairfield House, sat in his spacious saloon, chatting with several gentlemen, when Dr. Hartley entered. 
               "Can I see you a few moments on business?" asked the doctor, addressing him. 
               "Certainly, my dear sir. Always glad to wait upon my friends," he said, leading the way into a small sitting-room. "What can I do for you?" he asked, with great suavity, handing the doctor a chair. 
               "You can do much for me, or for a poor afflicted family, by refusing to furnish liquor to Bertram Gray," said the doctor, abruptly. 
               Smith raised his eyebrows. 
               "Indeed, sir. May I inquire upon what authority this demand is made of me?" he asked. 
               "You know very well, sir," replied Dr. Hartley, "that Gray gets liquor here, and I come asking you to prevent his obtaining it in the future. You should see the misery this curse has entailed upon that once happy family. Why, sir, it has vailed the light of reason forever from the mind of their only child, and made the little thing an idiot for life! And it was obtained here too," added the doctor, bitterly. 
               "Dr. Hartley," returned the other, with bland politeness, "I furnish liquor for the use of my family, my workmen, and my guests, and the law protects me in so doing. When you can bring proof that I have violated the statutes of my country we will talk over this matter," and with many excuses of pressing business he bowed the good doctor from the house. 
               This was all the satisfaction that could be obtained from the proprietor of the Fairfield House. Dr. Hartley could not prove that the liquor ordered by Clinton Chase, or perchance by some guest buying an occasional dinner, was actually drank and paid for by Bertram Gray. Yet night after night he left those premises to go home without a penny for the family expenses, but to carry fear and anguish to the heart of his gentle wife. 
               Expostulation with the guilty man was of no avail while this place of resort was ever open to tempt his appetite and surround him with influences calculated to drag him still downward. 
               Months passed away, and the circumstances of the little family became more and more embarrassing. 
               Lucy forbore to distress her parents by informing them of the change which had come over her beloved husband. She chose rather to suffer in silence than expose him who had been to her all that was noble and true. So she made preparations to meet the necessities of the winter to the best of her ability. Taking a smaller tenement, she parted with every article which was not absolutely necessary. She was a good seamstress, and used her needle to good effect whenever work could be obtained. Yet, notwithstanding all her efforts, her faith was often sorely tried during that long season of poverty. 
                
               In Dr. Hartley's family she found friends indeed. Minnie, the youngest, a girl of fifteen, proved a ray of sunlight in that darkened house. Naturally vivacious, her presence carried new life wherever she went. 
               "Come, chatterbox, you must go and lighten the heart of poor Mrs. Gray," Dr. Hartley would often say to his little pet; and Minnie was always delighted to go, for she loved the "pretty Mrs. Gray," as she called her. 
               "Yes, and take this basket, with my love," would be often the injunction of the doctor's wife. So Minnie, with her mother's good things, and her own sunny smiles and blithesome ways, would dispel the loneliness of many an otherwise dreary hour. 
               But sometimes Minnie was a receiver as well as a dispenser of good things. In these interviews Mrs. Gray sought the spiritual itual welfare of her young friend. The young girl hoped she loved the Saviour, yet she had much to learn of the new way in which she had just begun to walk. 
               "How could you manage to give that man a whole dollar?" said Minnie, with her usual open-heartedness, when talking with Mrs. Gray. "Only yesterday I heard you say you needed a pair of shoes, but could not spare the money. Now do tell me, Mrs. Gray, what made you so much more liberal with this missionary agent than with yourself," and Minnie looked sorely puzzled. 
               "Minnie, dear, your kindness has opened my mouth to speak of many things which otherwise might have remained closed within my own breast. You have been a witness to this transaction, so it is no more than fair that I should explain." 
               "Oh, no, Mrs. Gray. Do not feel under obligation to speak of anything, unless you wish it," said Minnie, coloring deeply. "I did not mention it because I doubted your wisdom in the matter; but I felt there must be some principle involved which I did not understand." 
               "I can trust you, Minnie," said Mrs. Gray; "and the remembrance of what the Lord has done for me may strengthen you in the hour of trial. From my earliest recollections my mother taught me that beautiful practice spoken of by Paul to the Corinthians concerning collections for benevolent purposes,-'Let every man lay by him in store, as the Lord has prospered him.' I have long considered it a duty and a privilege to obey this injunction, by putting aside a certain portion of the money I could call my own, considering in the Lord's portion. While we were prospered this was easily accomplished, for we had more than enough for every want; but when poverty stared us in the face, it became a question if I was doing right thus to appropriate a portion of what seemed, at most, too small for our real need. Habit, however, has continued the practice of laying aside, until cent by cent one dollar has accumulated from my own small means the past month. Hearing our pastor speak of the claims of the missionary cause last Sabbath, I became extremely anxious to know my duty. Should I take this dollar, which had been virtually consecrated to God, toward supplying the many calls of the frail body, or should I simply tell Jesus of my need, and let faith perform her work of love by laying it upon the altar of sacrifice?" 
               "But had you no other money?" interposed Minnie, with amazement. 
               Mrs. Gray hesitated. 
               "Minnie, you must not speak of this," she expostulated, "but it was all. Not a cent remained with me this morning after buying things necessary for the day. I believe I have done my duty, and can repose on the promise, 'Bread shall be given him, and his waters shall be sure.'" 
               But, oh, Mrs. Gray, I shall not take a moment's comfort until I know how you come out. If your wants are supplied, I shall never doubt again." 
               Dear Minnie, your words remind me of the king's cry to Daniel in the lion's den,-'O Daniel, servant of the living God, is thy God, whom thou servest continually, able to deliver thee from the lions?' 'The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof;' shall I fear to trust him for the little I want?" 
               Minnie left, filled with wonder that faith could bear the soul above the fear of earthly want, and fill it with joy and peace amid scenes of distress. She knew very well what it was to rest on Jesus for a supply against spiritual need, but she had not learned that this same Jesus cares for the most minute wants of those who trust him. 
               The next morning, Minnie could scarcely wait until breakfast was over to run in and look after her protg; for she had fully resolved, should relief come in no other way, she would take her friend's case into her own hands and solicit aid of her father. 
               "Well, Mrs. Gray, have the ravens been sent with bread yet?" asked Minnie, in her own lively way. 
               Mrs. Gray turned a face full of peaceful joy upon her young friend. "'Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits,'" was her salutation. "Yes, Minnie, the Lord has indeed sent his ravens with bread." 
               "How was it. Do tell me, Mrs. Gray," said the young girl, eagerly. 
                
               "For the first time for a long while, Minnie, Mr. Gray brought home last night flour, sugar, and tea, and some other things much needed. Now tell me, was not this from the Lord's hand, and shall we distrust him again?" 
               Minnie confessed this was very singular, especially as Mrs. Gray had not informed her husband of their peculiarly destitute condition. 
               "Well, Mrs. Gray, I shall never forget this," said Minnie, soberly; "but do you think such faith attainable by every Christian?" 
               Mrs. Gray looked somewhat perplexed. 
               "'Such faith?'" she repeated. "I do not understand you, dear. I am not conscious of exercising any faith differing from the simple faith of the gospel exercised by every true child of God." 
               "Then I am not a Christian, Mrs. Gray," exclaimed Minnie, bursting into tears; "for I know nothing of this faith, I am sure. I could not trust, as you have done, and be so calm under such circumstances." 
               Mrs. Gray drew the child to a seat beside her. 
               "Minnie, dear, do you not feel many wants within your soul which you can never supply? For instance, you can never save that precious soul from the ruin which sin has brought upon it; and must you not trust Jesus to stretch forth the hand of his love, or you will be forever lost?" 
               "Oh, yes, Mrs. Gray," sobbed Minnie; "but that is so different. It is not at all like your faith." 
               "Why different, my child? Is it less to trust the momentous concerns of eternity in his hands, than to expect him to feed our frail bodies with what we need here? Does the latter imply a different, or a greater faith, or is it because we have learned we may thus trust him?" 
               "Can it be, Mrs. Gray, that this is all?" said Minnie, wiping her tears. "May I go to Jesus with every earthly joy and sorrow, and expect he will listen?" 
               "Certainly, my dear. 'Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing, and one of them shall not fall to the ground without your Father. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear ye not therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows.' What mean these words, if they do not invite the confidence of every child of God in the very smallest affairs of life." 
               "Oh, Mrs. Gray, what a glorious, happy life it would be to live thus!" exclaimed Minnie, after musing upon what her friend had said. "It is just what we all crave, and yet how many refuse to accept the precious boon, because-because-" 
                
               "Because the heart is too proud, perhaps," interposed Mrs. Gray. "My dear, we must become like little children if we would receive the kingdom of God in power." 
               A few days after the above conversation, Minnie came running in with great glee. 
               "Father told me to give you this," she said, holding up a one dollar bill. "He says it is from Mrs. Graves, who is so pleased with the cloak you made her last fall, that she wishes to add this to the price she then paid you." 
               Mrs. Gray's eyes filled with tears. 
               "Surely the Lord is not a hard master," she said, drawing forth her portemonnaie, and displaying to the wondering eyes of Minnie six dollars. 
               "How did you come by all this?" asked the girl, with surprise. 
               "Two dollars Mrs. Hedley sent me; a mistake, he says, made some months ago in settling for a job of work. I offered it to Mr. Gray, but he bade me keep it for my own use. I received one dollar for that handsome tidy you assisted me to make; another from a lady who fell in love with my pretty tea rose, and begged the privilege of taking slips from it. Mrs. Choate paid me two dollars last night for work done during the past week." 
               "And now this dollar makes seven," said Minnie, handing the money she had brought. "Seven dollars for one. The Lord does pay good interest, Mrs. Gray." 
               "It is not always received in temporal good, Minnie," said Mrs. Gray, seriously. "Yet I verily believe, 'they that seek the Lord, shall not want any good thing.'" 
               Minnie was a susceptible child, and the experience of her more mature friend made a deep impression upon her mind; and she often referred to this time as a new era in her own Christian experience. 
               From the tone of Lucy's letters, her parents became aware that some change had come to her once happy home. Mr. Grant decided to visit his daughter, to see for himself what had happened. 
               Mrs. Gray felt keenly the look of surprise when her father entered the little low chamber she now called home. The poor and scanty furniture, and the general air of discomfort which pervaded the apartment, were so different from the cheerful tenement occupied upon his former visit, that the good man saw at a glance the some other cause besides want of employment must have wrought so sudden a change. He forbore to question Lucy upon the subject, but when her husband came home to dinner, the bloated face and blood-shot eyes revealed the truth. Mr. Grant was shocked, and found it difficult to greet his son-in-law with common courtesy. 
               The pale, wan face of the wife spoke more plainly than words of the hardships to which she had been subjected, and the plaintive whine and vacant stare of poor little Josie touched the heart of Mr. Grant with tender pity. Thus he found them; yet not a word of complaint escaped the lips of the patient wife and mother. 
               She hoped a sense of propriety would keep her husband steady during her father's stay, but in this she was doomed to disappointment. The boisterous talk and the incoherent sentences mortified the sensitive wife and disgusted the old gentleman, leaving no doubt the cause of all this trouble. 
               Gray made a great ado over the hard times and the poorly paid wages of the laboring class, but Mr. Grant was not to be thus blinded. In the morning he spoke plainly to his son-in-law, but his expostulations were received in sullen silence, producing irritation and annoyance rather than any good impression. 
               Mr. Grant left his daughter with a sad heart. He made her condition, however, more endurable by removing the family to a more commodious dwelling, paying the rent in advance for one year, and leaving money with his daughter sufficient to defray present expenses. He also insisted that she should apply for more, rather than suffer for the necessaries of life. But Lucy was a sensible woman. She knew her parents were advancing in years, and quite unable to bear this strain upon their limited resources. 
               Dr. Hartley thought to attempt once more a reformation in Gray. "Want a job of work, Gray?" he asked, in his usual brusque manner, meeting that individual upon the street. 
                
               "Well, doctor, I've nothing special on hand. I should like a little work, that's a fact," replied Gray, brightening a little. 
               "Well, I want to put up a large three story building. Now, I can get common laborers enough-journeymen carpenters; but I want a good master-workman. I know you are capable of this, Gray, and I will give you the job on one condition." 
               "What is that, sir?" asked Gray, completely thrown off his guard by the doctor's manner. 
               "That you will leave off drinking. You are naturally a smart, capable man, and it is a shame for you to be where you are. Now here's chance to retrieve your fortunes." 
               Gray was evidently much moved by the confidence placed in him. 
               "I would gladly leave off drinking, doctor; but how can I do it with that grogshop right before my eyes," he said, almost fiercely, pointing toward the Fairfield House. "I shall have to pass by that place to and from my work, and I can not do it. No, I can not do it," he repeated, emphatically. 
               "Try it, Gray, try it," said the old gentleman, encouragingly. "Come, sir, I'll help you out. Go and testify against Smith for selling liquor, and we'll put this temptation out of your way." 
               "I guess I couldn't do that, Dr. Hartley. I don't think it would be honorable." 
               Dr. Hartley smiled to think a man who could wrong himself, his friends, and God, should be so scrupulous in regard to what he termed honorable. 
               Gray saw, however, that he had committed himself; and lest he should be called upon for evidence, he promised a reform. 
               "But I can not commence your work at present," he said, deprecatingly. "I shall be all used up." 
                
               "Never mind that, friend Gray," said the doctor, kindly. "Come over to my house; I have some light work, and I'll pay good wages." 
               Gray promised, but with some misgivings. 
               The next day, however, found him at Dr. Hartley's according to agreement. The doctor furnished him with employment about the house, making some needed repairs; and with an injunction to Mrs. Hartley to get Gray a good cup of coffee with his lunch he was left in the care of little Minnie, who promised to look after him through the day. 
               Minnie felt the importance of her mission; and whenever Gray's work brought him within hearing, she sang and played with as much enthusiasm as when entertaining the most refined company. She wisely inferred that he had a heart open to sympathy, and that the love of the beautiful was a characteristic inherent in every breast. 
                
               Once or twice she flitted past him, speaking a casual word or two. Then she stopped to examine his work, expressing an interest in its execution. 
               At first he answered in monosyllables, but won by her pleasant and sprightly ways, he soon became quite affable to the young girl. Toward night, however, she missed the familiar sound of hammer and saw, and went out to see what had become of her workman. His implements were laid carefully aside, but the man was gone. 
               Remembering what her father had said about his passing the Fairfield House, she ran down the steps, and glanced across the way. There stood Gray, at the entrance to the place of temptation, evidently discussing some point with his old companion, Clinton Chase. Regardless of hat or shawl, Minnie sped across the street, down the sidewalk, until she stood by his side. 
                
               "I intended to go directly home," she heard him say, as he came up in breathless haste. 
               "Please give this to Mrs. Gray," she said placing a tiny tea rose in his hand. "With my love," she added, as he turned toward her with startled look. 
               "Bless you, child!" he replied, as he began to comprehend the meaning of the little act, "Yes, I will carry it directly to her;" and she gladly saw him walk rapidly down the street. 
               She gazed a moment, then turned home-ward to welcome her father, who had just returned from his daily round of visits. 
               'Well, Minnie, how comes on our protg?" asked the doctor, alighting from his chaise. 
               Minnie related the little incident just alluded to. 
               "Can't they let him alone!" exclaimed the old gentleman. "Then we must see what can be done." 
               Mrs. Gray was overjoyed to see her husband come home that night entirely free from liquor. She had heard, through Minnie, of Dr. Hartley's offer, and she hoped much from the effort. 
               She rarely used words with her husband upon this subject, believing that persistent kindness and a cheerful home may do much where words would fail. But to-night there was a little of the old tenderness in his manner, as he gave her the rose, with Minnie's message. She had prepared something unusually nice for tea, willing to do her part toward effecting a reformation if possible. 
               As they sat down to the table she looked at the flower, and spoke of Minnie's loveliness. 
               'She is an angel!" suddenly exclaimed Mr. Gray. "But for her I should not have been here at this hour-and in this shape," he added, with effort. 
               "Oh, Bertie, why can not you always thus come home. Why can not we be happy always," said his wife, breaking through all restraint. 
               "Because, 'the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour,'" replied her husband, abruptly. "I have fought all day against a strong temptation to leave my work and go to Smith's and to-night I should have been overcome but for that angel of mercy, Minnie Hartley. I verily believe the child came after me purposely, lest I should be tempted to go in." 
               Mrs. Gray looked at her husband with pity, mingled with regret. With her keen sense of right, and her love of obedience to the right, made easier by a constant performance formance of duty, she could scarcely comprehend how a man, in the possession of powers and faculties such as had been given to Bertram Gray, should be obliged to confess to so much weakness. In a moment, recollecting the struggles within her own heart, which, but for the grace of God, might have turned the victory against her, she said, "You need help from above, Bertie. 'Seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.'" 
               "I never felt the need of help from some source so much as at the present time," he said, much softened. 
               Mrs. Gray could scarcely restrain her tears. Were her prayers about to be answered? Was she about to reach the goal to which she had looked forward for so many years,-her husband's conversion? "I will bring the blind by a way they know not; I will lead them in paths they have not known: I will make darkness light before them, and crooked things straight." 
               Thus it was with Bertram Gray. The hopes of his wife, and of Dr. Hartley's family, were to be blasted by a season of great darkness, leading, however, at last to the bright light of complete reformation. 
               Three days Gray continued to work at Dr. Hartley's, and return at night, kind and pleasant, brightening the hopes of his wife with each successive day. Meanwhile Minnie was unremitting in her attentions, often preparing, with her own hands, a nice cup of coffee or chocolate for the tempted man's lunch or dinner. The fourth day Minnie was ill, and Gray came home much depressed in spirits. The next morning he complained of headache, and thought he could not go to his work. 
               Mrs. Gray brought smiles and cheerful talk to her assistance, but still the day was an unpleasant one. Her husband was uneasy, and painfully sensitive to the constant wail of poor little Josie. In vain the poor mother sought to quiet the child. She had become so accustomed to his unmeaning sounds, that when alone they had ceased to annoy her. But now they grated harshly upon her overwrought nerves, for she saw their unpleasant effects upon her husband. 
               The day wore wearily away until nearly night, when Mr. Gray seized his hat and started for the door. 
               "Bertie, where will you go?" and Mrs. Gray's hand trembled as she laid it upon her husband's arm to detain him. 
               He shook it off roughly. 
               "Going-" He stared fiercely upon her, while an impious word finished the sentence. 
               He shut the door heavily as he passed out, but Mrs. Gray heard not the unpleasant sound. She lay upon the floor, unconscious of all surrounding objects. The tension had been too long continued, too severe, and nature gave way to the unnatural strain. 
               Feebly she crept about the house when consciousness once more visited her. She knew full well where her husband had gone, and her blasted hopes lay like withered leaves all around her. She went to the store-room; there was the little surprise she had prepared for her husband's tea; she unclosed the wardrobe, and the neatly stitched garments, prepared with thoughtful care, in the hope that he might be led to the house of god, met her eye; even his boots were blacked, his gloves mended, and his clothes in perfect order, that no excuse might detain him from church the coming Sabbath. What would now occur upon that holy day so near at hand? 
                
               Sick at heart, she waited for hours; still he came not. 
               Little Josie began to whine piteously, and she recollected that for the first time she had neglected to prepare any supper for the poor boy. Laying him gently in the cradle, she put on her shawl to go for his milk, when, opening a small drawer, where she usually kept her money, she started in alarm to find her little store all gone. Carefully examining every article, she at last became convinced that some one had taken the money her father had kindly left for her pressing need. 
               Suddenly the thought flashed across her mind that Dr. Hartley had told her that he should not pay Mr. Gray for his work, lest he should be tempted to spend it for rum, consequently he must be out of money. 
               Could it be possible that her own husband had taken the little she possessed for the purpose of supplying the means of gratifying his appetite for drink? She could come to one other conclusion. 
               Now she saw why he had been so irritable, so uneasy through the day. Struggling with a twofold temptation, he had at last pushed through all restraints, and plunged headlong into sin. As the fearful truth pressed upon her she groaned aloud, and prayed, as never before, for grace to bear up under this new trial. 
               But though a thousand accumulated sorrows press upon her, she must not stop to indulge in grief, but attend to her ordinary duties. Little Josie must have his milk. Walking rapidly down the familiar path, she scarcely heeded the thick darkness until she stood at Dr. Hartley's door. 
               The bright light streamed through the open casement, revealing a home of peace and plenty. Now the outer darkness seemed more in keeping with her present condition, and she almost shrank from entering the bright and cheerful room. 
               She could spare but a few moments to tell her sad story, and hasten back again to her dependent child. 
               "This nuisance can be endured no longer," said the doctor, rising quickly, and putting on his overcoat. "If there is a law in the old Bay State that can protect a poor woman from such trials, it shall be put in execution." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               A BRIGHTER DAY. 
               FOR several years a change had been going on in the minds of the people of Massachusetts, and also of other states, in regard to the liquor traffic. It had long been supposed to be useful, and absolutely necessary to the comfort of the community, that ardent spirits should be bought and sold. While this opinion prevailed laws were enacted to regulate the trade, endeavoring to protect the people from its evil consequences, yet enabling them to enjoy its supposed benefits. 
                
               Gradually public sentiment changed, and it came to be regarded by many as an intolerable evil, requiring more stringent measures for its suppression. There was, however, a variety of opinion in regard to this subject, and not a few were ready also to tolerate, or even encourage the sale, resorting to every artifice to escape the penalty of the law. In some places these evasions were winked at, but in others there were men who would not connive at such evils, and the full power of the law was brought to bear upon the guilty. 
               Of these men was Dr. Hartley. He saw and felt the evils of such an establishment as the Fairfield House; but how to reach the matter, so as to suppress it altogether, was a question not so easily answered. Nathan smith kept a public house, and under the law then existing he had a right to furnish his guests with liquor; and although it gave him no license to deal it out by the glass to whomsoever would buy, yet his traffic amounted to just that through one subterfuge and another. 
               When Mrs. Gray informed Dr. Hartley of the long-continued absence of her husband, he knew very well where Gray would be found, if found at all, that night. He was also aware that what was done must be done quickly; so, ordering his horse and chaise, a ride of two hours brought to his aid a man well calculated for the business before him. 
               Sheriff Bolton was neither a trifler nor a man to be trifled with. Entering the Fairfield House, he proceeded boldly from one table to another, among the little groups there assembled, taking note of the proceedings. His presence spread consternation, for the hour was late, and all restraint had been thrown off, bringing out the worst features tures of the establishment. Card-playing, dice-throwing, and every form of gambling was in full operation, while liquors of all sorts were in free circulation. several were manifestly intoxicated, among them Bertram Gray; while others were in a condition scarcely less desirable. 
               It was enough. Sheriff Bolton found work enough that night to pay for his hard ride through the dark and the loss of several hours of sleep. Dr. Hartley clapped his hands, and declared it was the best day's work he ever did, for from henceforth Fairfield was spared one nuisance-Nathan Smith. Enraged beyond measure at the success of the old doctor's plan, Smith declared he would leave Fairfield, which he did, giving place to a more honorable man and better citizen. 
               Dr. Hartley supposed if liquor was denied Gray at the Fairfield House, a reformation would be wrought without further trouble; but the fearful plunge into dissipation that night had left him weaker than ever against temptation. 
               Many were the consultations of his old comrades concerning future operations. One or two places of low character were still dispensing the poisonous draught, and thither they concluded to go to appease their raging thirst. 
               But Dr. Hartley was not thus to be outdone. He hade put his hand to the plow and he would make thorough work of what he had undertaken. 
               Donald Maloney and Mike Savory were made to know that the statutes of their adopted country must be obeyed, and for once the town seemed free from grogshops. 
               Dr. Hartley had been to visit a patient, and was returning, when he saw Gray sitting by the roadside, the very picture of despair spair and wretchedness. The doctor drew rein, and bade him good morning. 
               Gray looked up, but made no reply. 
               "Come, cheer up, man," said the old gentleman, briskly. "Better times are coming. You must not get down-hearted, Gray." 
               "I'm ruined for this world and for the next," replied the latter, huskily; "and why taunt a fellow with hope?" 
               There was more in Gray's manner than even his words implied. Fearing symptoms of delirium, the doctor alighted from his chaise and approached him. 
               "Don't come near me?" he cried. "Go into the house, and see the work of my hands. O God? a murderer!" and he shuddered with some dreadful thought. 
               The doctor was really alarmed. He saw that Gray was perfectly sober, but did not know to what lengths the last night's debauchery might have carried the miserable man. Turning hastily toward the house, Dr. Hartley entered without knocking. Upon a low couch lay a little form robed in white, while by its side sat Mrs. Gray, pale, yet calm and self-possessed. His daughter Minnie bent lovingly toward the white-robed figure, and laid within the tiny fingers a beautiful rose-bud. 
               "He is at rest," said Mrs. Gray, as the doctor approached, laying her hand upon the transparent forehead. 
               It was no time for questions; but from Minnie the doctor: learned afterward the following particulars. 
               Mr. Gray returned home the evening previous with a bottle of whiskey. Frequent potations disordered his mind, but he was not stupidly drunk. Fearful of abuse, Mrs. Gray took her child, at an early hour, in-tending to retire to her chamber, but her husband declared that he was going to bed himself, and would not permit the child to be carried thither. 
               Mrs. Gray, knowing contention to be useless silently acquiesced, and sat down with her child in her arms. But the loud tones of the infuriated man aroused the poor child from its slumber, and he began to scream violently. Exasperated by this outbreak, the father attempted to seize the innocent cause of this disturbance, which frightened the poor little thing still more, causing him to cling to his mother's arms in dismay. Enraged beyond bounds that his child should thus shun him, Gray caught the babe from its mother's arms and shook it fiercely. Spasms seized the feeble frame, followed by convulsions, which ended in death before the morning light. 
               Mrs. Gray could not leave her child to go for assistance, neither could she persuade the wretched man to call aid; so, alone with her drunken husband, raving wildly as the consequences of his brutal act became evident, the poor mother saw her babe draw its last breath in her arms. With her own hands she closed the little eyes, laid the shrunken form in order, and kissed the pale cheek without a tear. 
               Minnie came in early in the morning to find the mother sitting with her dead, and the distracted father pacing the floor, horror-stricken at the dawning consciousness of his guilt. 
               Mrs. Gray felt keenly the loss of her child. None but a mother's experience could know the tender fondness with which she clung to that little inanimate form. Yet she would not call him back. He was at rest, as she had said to Dr. Hartley, and her mourning was turned into joy as she thought of that vacant, expressionless face, now radiant with heavenly intelligence. 
                
               "You have now a child in heaven," said the man of God, as he stood by that little coffin at the funeral service. "Let this prove a magnet, ever drawing your own souls toward that pure and happy abode." 
               Simultaneously with Dr. Hartley's efforts in suppressing the sale of liquor, Horatio Brand, a classmate and particular friend of Dr. Hartley, came to Fairfield. He was a good man, and had at one time studied with the ministry in view, but ill health had obliged him to relinquish this design, and for one or two years he had been employed as a lay missionary in one of our Western States. 
               Hearing of the case of Gray and several others, he determined to do something to induce these wretched men to reform, hoping also to promote generally the cause of temperance in Fairfield. 
               Mr. Brand thought it a favorable time to visit Gray immediately after the funeral of his child, especially as Dr. Hartley believed he might then be found free from liquor, and with a heart softened in view of his sins. 
               Taking a few books and tracts, Brand passed from house to house, speaking a word for his Master, or leaving a silent witness where words would be of no avail. Like the blessed Jesus, he sought to benefit his fellow-men whenever opportunity offered, not waiting for some great event to open the way, but faithfully improving all occasions, however trifling, for doing good. The cheering word, the sunny smile, or the hearty shake of the hand, were not despised by him, but used as instruments to open the hearts of men to a more cordial reception of the truth. 
               Mr. Brand was approaching the residence of Mr. Gray, when his attention was arrested rested by a heavy groan. He was startled, but glancing around, he observed a man sitting near, with his face buried in his hands. Mr. Brand accosted the wretched looking being, and inquired for the cause of his trouble. 
               Gray-for it was he-glanced up hastily. 
               "Put me in prison, hang me, do what you will with me," he said. "I can not be more miserable than I am now." 
               "I did not come for any such purpose, my friend," said Mr. Brand, taking a seat beside him. "But I came to tell you that 'the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth from all sin.'" 
               "Who are you, and who has sent you here?" asked Gray, wildly. 
               "I am the servant of the living God, and he bade me come to you with this message:-'Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool'!" 
               "Did he bid you come to me, a fiend and a murderer?" asked Gray, seizing his companion fiercely by the arm. 
               "Yes, you, Bertram Gray, who have despised his promises, set at naught his commands, and trampled under foot the most sacred of obligations. His language to you, even now, is, 'Turn ye, turn ye, for why will ye die?'" 
               The overwrought nerves relaxed, the intense excitement gave way, and Gray wept like a child. 
               Brand knew what was wanting, and led the yielding man into the house. A cup of tea was soon prepared by Mrs. Gray, and her husband induced to take a few mouthfuls of food, almost the first since that awful night of delirium and guilt. 
                
               At length Gray became more composed, and could talk somewhat calmly. Mr. Brand drew from his pocket a paper, and laid it before him. "Friend Gray," said he, "He who bade me come to you with words of forgiveness, also bade me say, 'Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes: cease to do evil, learn to do well;'" and he pointed to a pledge of total abstinence from all intoxicating liquors. 
               Gray looked at the pledge, and then at the man before him. 
               "I am weak," said he, with pitiful childishness. "You know not how weak. I fear I could never live a Christian life." 
               "He who hath said, 'Let him take hold of my strength,' ' himself hath suffered, being tempted, and is able to succor them that are tempted,' if they will but trust him," said Mr. Brand. "Can't you trust Him who forgiveth all thine iniquities, healing also all thy diseases, friend Gray?" 
               The question came home, and touched the heart of the poor man. 
               "Then all comes from the same source," he said, thoughtfully. "Pardon for the past, healing for the present, and strength for the future. To Him, also, must be all the glory," he said, reverently; "for it is due to his great and holy name." 
               With trembling hand Gray signed the pledge, and experienced a peace of mind strangely in contrast with the terrible remorse which had so long preyed upon him. 
               "I don't see how I can feel so calmly, Lucy, when the terrible past remains the same," he remarked to his wife that evening. 
               "'Being justified by faith, we have peace with God, through our Lord Jesus Christ,'" repeated his wife, slowly and emphatically. 
                
               "I feel as if I must thank God for what he has done for me, so sinful as I have been," said the husband, humbly. 
               Lucy read from the word of God the parable of the prodigal son. 
               "I never realized before that God is so willing to forgive, so plenteous in mercy, even when we area great way off,"-and the man who had been plunged so deeply in guilt, knelt humbly and penitently to thank his heavenly Father for his infinite mercy in Christ Jesus. 
               The dissipation, the consequent depression of spirits after so much excitement, and the terrible struggles of conscience, exhausted much of the physical strength of Mr. Gray. 
               It was some time before he was able to appear in public, and when he did, he was but a skeleton of his former self. 
               Dr. Hartley had promised him work as soon as he could attend to it, and he came over to see what was to be done. 
               He could now pass the Fairfield House in safety, or meet an old comrade without being urged to visit some place of dissipation. 
               He was not, however, without temptation from without, or conflicts within. Calling upon a neighbor one evening to leave some directions from Dr. Hartley, Gray found the man somewhat under the influence of liquor. Billy Martin had been a fellow-traveler in the paths of dissipation, but through the efforts of Mr. Brand, and the encouragements of Dr. Hartley, he had pledged himself to reform. 
               As Gray entered the house, the strong scent of liquor revealed plainly what was to be found within. Martin was profuse in his complaints against those who would take away his liberty, as he termed it; and finally ly urged Gray to assert his independence, and take a glass. 
               "You can't think how much better a man feels for throwing off his chains," said Martin, boastingly, pushing toward Gray a glass of liquor. The strong fumes of whiskey upon an appetite but lately brought under control, and still pleading loudly for indulgence, were a temptation not easily resisted; and Gray trembled as he remarked, "I am no slave, Martin. Thank God, I hope I am set free, with the liberty wherewith Christ hath made me free." 
               Martin sneered, and muttered something about fools and priestcraft; but Gray hastened away, distressed and alarmed to find the old enemy still alive within him, and impatient of restraint. 
               Mrs. Gray's quick eye detected the disquieted look upon her husband's countenance, but she forbore to question him, hoping for an explanation. He sat silent and thoughtful for a long time. 
               Poor Lucy's fears grew stronger every moment, and she resolved to ascertain, if possible, her husband's trouble. Passing to his side, she laid her hand caressingly upon the bowed head, slowly repeating words of Holy Writ. 
               "'Fear not; for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name; thou art mine. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee; when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flames kindle upon thee. For I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour.'" 
               Her husband looked up, but with an exceedingly mournful expression. 
               "That promise may be for you, Lucy, but not for me," he replied, sadly. "I am not a Christian, I fear, and am not worthy to claim God's promises." 
               "Worthy?" repeated his wife, thoughtfully. "Not one of us, dear Bertie, can claim the promises of God on that ground. Only through the merits of the Lord Jesus Christ, who has purchased them for every poor sinner, can you or I appropriate the promises of God. 'Whosoever will, let him take the waters of life freely,' opens this precious fountain to every penitent, humble soul." 
               "'No man having put his hand to the plow, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God,'" replied Mr. Gray; and he then related his experience at Martin's. "I thought the old man put off, dead," said he, grievedly, "but I find him not only alive, but even contending for the victory." 
               Lucy turned to the seventh chapter of Romans, and read the description of Paul's struggles with sin. 
               "Would you return to the old life, Bertie, the old deadness to sin?" she asked. 
               "No, Lucy. I would rather die first," replied her husband, quickly. "But I can fully adopt the language of Paul-'Oh, wretched man, that I am! Who shall deliver me from the body of this death?'" 
               "'I thank God, through Jesus Christ our Lord,'" replied Mrs. Gray, with enthusiasm. "Here was the source of St. Paul's strength, and here only can we find support. 'In the world, ye shall have tribulation,' saith our Saviour, 'but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world.'" 
               Hope once more illuminated the dark future of Bertram Gray as he listened to the precious words of divine truth; and henceforth he found a solace, a support in the hour temptation, by applying to his own case the promises of God's word-that rich legacy of Christ's love. 
               Dr. Hartley's vigilance in suppressing the liquor traffic kept temptation at a distance from Fairfield, thus enabling Gray to battle more successfully with the thirst created by former indulgence. 
               The old doctor was as good as his word also, in providing work suitable for the weakened system and shattered nerves, until a return of health gave the young carpenter strength of mind and body to take charge of more important duties. Bertram Gray began to feel himself a man again when he saw a fine, three-story building erected according to his own plan, and heard the commendation of his employer, and beheld the satisfied faces of a score of workmen passing to and fro in obedience to his directions. 
               Mr. Brand was regarded by him with almost childish reverence and love. The good man's counsel and Christian sympathy did much to lighten the burdens which a life of dissipation and entailed upon Mr. Gray; and he often said, in after years, that under God he owed all that he was, or could hope to be, to this Christian friend. 
               Mrs. Gray rejoiced with trembling. She did everything in her power to make home pleasant, and as time passed away, and her husband still remained firm, she felt that her prayers were indeed answered. When, a few months after, he sat by her side at the table of our blessed Lord, a humble communicant, she exclaimed, the Psalmist, "'My cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life.'" 
               None rejoiced more than Minnie Hartley at the happy change in this family. She flitted back and forth, congratulating Mrs. Gray; and when a little Lucy came, with its bright blue eyes and flaxen curls, to take the place made vacant by the death of poor Joise, the happiness of all concerned seemed complete. 
               Mrs. Gray could now write to her parents in joyful strains, telling them of what God had done for her and her family. 
               In return, she received good news from home. Her brother Willie had so far recovered his health that he was looking about for some to do. Mrs. Gray invited him to come to Fairfield, where, through the influence of Dr. Hartley, he obtained a situation as assistant teacher in the Academy in that place. As has been stated before, Willie Grant was a fine scholar, and now that his mind was given to the work, he soon became a favorite with pupils and teacher, and by his upright life and gentlemanly deportment won the respect of all who knew him. 
                
               Bennie Grant had advanced so far in his studies that his parents thought better advantages must be secured for him; so he too came to Fairfield, Mrs. Grant preferring a home for her boy in her daughter's family to one among strangers. 
               About this time the question of prohibiting the sale of liquors again agitated the people of Massachusetts. Many intelligent and respectable persons were opposed to prohibition, and wished the liquor traffic to become once more a lawful, though "regulated" trade. Dr. Hartley's soul was stirred within him, and Mr. Brand was on the alert. 
               "Something must be done to influence public opinion in the right direction, or all the labor of the past few months will be entirely lost," said Dr. Hartley, excitedly. "Let the proprietor of the Fairfield House be licensed to sell liquor to be drank upon the premises, and how long before these now happy families will be again wretched and miserable?" 
               "I should hope much from the restraining grace of God in case of Bertram Gray," remarked Mr. Brand; "but still I would not like to see the experiment tried, even with him." 
               "Perhaps he might stand the test," replied the doctor, "for I believe he is a true Christian; but what would become of your recent expectations in regard to Miles Folsom and Dick Standish? I tell you, friend Brand, the Spirit of God don't visit the heart when the head is under the influence of spirituous liquor." 
               "I am well aware of that, Dr. Hartley," replied the latter, sorrowfully. "I have had confirmation of this truth within a week. Young Joe Brackett appeared quite thoughtful, and was evidently under the influence of the Holy Spirit, when some of his young companions from a neighboring town persuaded him to join them on a spree, as they called it, and since that time he has been more reckless than ever; and last night he returned in the cars, scarcely able to take care of himself. His poor mother is almost beside herself with grief, for she thought him near the kingdom of heaven." 
               "Well, it appears to me we must prepare the way of the Lord, at the present time, by removing these stumbling-blocks; and as the tide of public opinion now favors a license law, we must set before the people the evils arising from such a traffic. Choose men, friend Brand, whom you can trust to speak upon this subject, and I am with you, heart, hand and pocket, in the good work." 
               Arrangements were soon made by Mr. Brand, and the citizens invited to listen to the views of several gentlemen upon the liquor question. 
               Parson Goodman opened the meeting with prayer; then the good old minister, alluding to the evils of intemperance, which had come under the observation of all, asked them to seriously consider whether they would invite an increase of these evils, by enacting laws which shall give to bad men the power to spread snares all along the pathway of our children and youth. 
               He was followed by one or two others; when Mr. Brand arose, and said he believed most present were well acquainted with his views upon the subject, but he would beg leave to introduce a young friend, who might say something to interest them. 
               All, but Bertram Gray, were surprised to see the young teacher, Willie Grant, step forward, and with but little embarrassment address the people. Gray knew why and whereof his brother would speak. 
               Willie referred to the prohibition of lottery offices, of gambling houses, and other kindred places, and said that the reason for such prohibition was, that the evils resulting from them are far greater than the good. "Now, unless it can be proved," he added, "that the benefits of the liquor traffic are greater than the evils, why should not this also be put upon the list of prohibited trades? No good man, who sincerely believes a licensed grogshop to be the source of more evil than good, can for a moment vindicate its establishment, or wish to see it protected by law. Now, my friends, what are some of the evils of the liquor traffic?" and his voice grew low and earnest. "A husband and a father staggering home at the midnight hour, bereft of his manhood, his reason, and every true and pure affection tion, making him a demon to fill the heart of his once loved wife with terror, and quench the light of reason, yea, of life itself, from his innocent babe. This, my friends, you have seen, but you could not taste the bitter poverty, or feel the corroding cares, the incessant anxieties of that poor stricken wife and mother? You could not realize in your own souls the stinging remorse, the lashings of a guilty conscience, or the terrible struggles with an unappeased appetite, known only to that miserable husband and father." 
               As he sat down, many eyes, unused to weep, were filled with tears. All present knew the truth whereof he affirmed, and facts often prove effectual where labored argument fails. 
               Many fathers and mothers, with their sons and daughters, came forward to thank the young man for his words, and pledge themselves to suppress, in every possible way, the evils which had been depicted. But politics ran high; and although Fair-field did her duty, the old Bay State elected a majority of her legislature in favour of a license law. 
               As Dr. Hartley prophesied, the repeal of prohibition undid the work of months in the reformation progressing so hopefully in this little village. 
               The Fairfield House resumed its mischievous work as before; and while a few rejoiced, many mourned and trembled in view of the consequences that were apprehended. 
               "What can I do more?" asked Bertram Gray, dejectedly. "I have voted for prohibition, and lifted my voice against license whenever opportunity offered, and I have employed another to hold up my sin as a warning to the people, yet I fear all have proved of little avail." 
               "If you have done your duty, my dear," said his wife, "you need not despond as to the result. Let us hope that all will be well." 
               "It sometimes requires a peculiar manifestation of God's grace to be able to pass the fiery furnace of temptation unharmed," said Willie Grant, with much feeling. 
               "True, my brother," replied Gray. "If yonder grogshop is opened by law, who can say, confidently, 'I can pass it safely.' Not those who have once felt the strength of a depraved appetite;" and Gray walked the room hastily. "But though I may remain steadfast, what will become of those who have not the grace of God to sustain them? Here is Bennie, just of the age when I was first tempted, upon that very spot; and He only who knoweth all things, can estimate the evils resulting from that one glass of bear I then drank." 
               "What was it about a glass of beer?" asked Bennie, with youthful curiosity. 
               Mr. Gray related some incidents of his boyhood's temptations, and warned Bennie to keep clear of all such places and such companions. 
               "Harry Lackwell asked me to-day to go with him to the Fairfield House,' said Bennie. "He said they kept nice beer now, and would be licensed soon to keep other good things. I told him the Bible said of such places, 'Avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it, and pass away.'" 
               "That is the only safe course, my boy," remarked Mr. Gray. "Hold fast the word of God, and follow its precepts, and you will never experience these terrible struggles with temptation, or know the weakness of one who has once yielded to the enticements of evil companions." 
               One year sufficed to show the effects of the licensed sale of liquor. Families who were just commencing to taste the fruits of reformation, were again thrown into distress by personal abuse, poverty, and the unspeakable wretchedness which ever follow in the train of intemperance. 
               Bertram Gray stood firm, while scores of other men fell. Day by day he walked softly before the Lord, kept humble by the continual remembrance of former sins, and ever drawing supplies of grace from Him who hath said, "As thy day, so shall thy strength be," 
               Willie Grant wept as he saw the need of workmen in the great field of usefulness, and then remembered the time he had so sinfully misspent, instead of used, in preparing himself for the service of God. 
                
               "Bennie must be the minister," he said, laying his hand caressingly upon his brother's arm. "Apply yourself to the work manfully, my boy, and give no place to temptation. It has crippled your brother's usefulness. May it never blast yours." 
               Mr. Brand was a silent listener to these remarks, and soon took occasion to allude to the subject again, when alone with Willie. 
               "What are your plans for future usefulness, my young friend?" he asked, when opportunity offered. 
               "Nothing very definite, Mr. Brand. I haven't strength of body to labor with my hands, and my health will not allow of close application, so that any further prosecution of my studies is out of the question. Sometimes I feel that I am a useless waif, doomed to a life of comparative idleness on account of my sin," said the young man, dejectedly. 
               "No necessity for any such idea," replied Mr. Brand, taking him kindly by the hand. "The field of usefulness is large and varied, and there is certainly a place in it for you. What would you say to traveling West, scattering books and tracts over the destitute regions of the frontier, thus preaching the gospel to thousands who must otherwise remain in ignorance of the truth?" 
               "I should like it much," said the young man, after a pause, "provided my health would allow, and I was considered competent for the work." 
               "It might improve your health," said Mr. Brand; "and with a heart warm with love for Jesus, I would answer for your ability." 
               It was soon decided that Mr. Brand should use his influence to obtain the situation. Willie was in Mapleville when the answer came to make immediate preparations to leave for the far West. 
                
               "Did I not tell you, my son, that where there was a willing mind, God would provide work?" asked his mother, after the letter was read. 
               "Is it not curious, mother," inquired Willie, in return, "that this is, after all, in essence, the very work to which you consecrated me in my early years?" 
               "I have been thinking of this, my son," replied Mrs. Grant. "The books and tracts you will carry contain a large variety of valuable truths, and if you freely circulate these among a people destitute of the means of grace, you will virtually preach Christ to a large congregation." 
               "Yes, mother, to say nothing of the opportunities for speaking a word for Jesus, or perchance praying with the sick or dying; or I may be able to establish Sabbath schools in some destitute region. Oh, mother, it seems so good in my heavenly Father to allow such a poor sinner as I have been to do so much for him." 
               "We can only exclaim with St. Paul, 'Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out'." 
               Willie Grant went forth to the work before him with renewed courage. From the milder climate of our South-western States, he derived strength of body and vigor of mind; while in return, he scattered abroad leaves from the tree of life, imparting spiritual life and health to the inhabitants of that destitute region. 
               "How could you spare your son to go so far from home?" asked an old lady of Mrs. Grant, some months after Willie's departure. 
               "For His sake, 'who spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all,'" was the earnest reply of the pious mother. "Why, Mrs. Lakeman, I consider it an honor and a privilege to know my children are working for God, although it may take them from my immediate presence." 
               "Well, I have heard of mothers who allowed their children to go as missionaries, among savages too; but I don't see how they could do it," observed Mrs. Lakeman, gravely. 
               Mrs. Grant's eyes filled with tears, for the remark touched a tender spot. 
               "Strength is given in the hour of trial Mrs. Lakeman," she replied; "and only those who are listening for their Lord's voice can hear the blessed words, 'My grace is sufficient for thee.'" 
               Yet Mrs. Grant trembled, and she gladly saw her visitor depart, that she might gather strength in renewed communion with the Saviour. 
               Only a few days before, she received a letter from Bennie, now in college, which had stirred the inmost depths of her soul. 
               "I have been long thinking," he wrote, "that it might be my duty to devote myself to the missionary work. Ever since father used to talk with me concerning Paul's travels and labors, I have cherished the thought that some time, in my feeble way, I should preach Christ to the poor ignorant inhabitants of Asia. I did not mention this, for I would not trouble you with what might prove a childish dream; but since I came here I have encountered a warm missionary spirit in one or two of my classmates, and I find my own mind tending strongly in the same direction. Dear mother, can you cheerfully give me up, should the Master open the path of duty still more plainly, and bid your son enter it?" 
               At first Mrs. Grant thought she could not part with her Benjamin. All the tender yearnings of a mother's heart forbade the sacrifice. Yet she had trembled for her child's future when he entered upon new scenes of trial and temptation, and prayed fervently that he might be kept from the evil, and consecrated to the service of God. 
               Would she now recall the sacred act? The sad fall of poor Willie, and the subsequent years of suffering if caused, warned her not to turn this child from the path of duty. 
               Ought she not rather to praise God, who had listened to her prayer, and was evidently leading her son to a higher and holier Christian life? 
               It was several weeks before she could answer the letter, and when she did, she simply wrote, "Amen! 'Even so, Father, for so it seemeth good in thy sight.'" 
               Not long after this Mary Grant bade her mother good by, and left, with her husband, for a new home. Freddie still remained with his parents, constantly affirming that he should stay with them while they lived. 
               "You have brought up five children, mother," he would sometimes say, "and now one of us must remain and take care of you. The others have chosen their work, and I will choose mine. It shall be to 'honor my father and mother.'" 
               "And you will have your reward, my boy, even in this world," said an old neighbor; "for the promise reads, 'that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.'" 
               Let it not be supposed that the bustle and activity of the great world afforded no attractions for the boy, for Freddie had, like others, his youthful dreams and worldly ambitions. Neither let any one think he had no desire to work for his Lord, for Freddie was a sincere Christian, and his conscientious tious regard for duty convinced him that he could serve God in Mapleville as well as in any other place. The little church there was feeble, and needed the support of strong, youthful hands; and he remembered what his mother had often told him, that a faithful performance of duty in any sphere, however humble, was acceptable in the sight of God. 
               So he took up the Master's work on the lowly spot where his parents had long and faithfully labored, and the blessing of the Lord rested upon him. 
             
         
       
   
