
    ----CITATION----
        Dumont, Julia L. (1794-1857). Life Sketches from Common Paths .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6330
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               LIFE SKETCHES FROM COMMON PATHS: 
               A Series of American Tales. 
             
            BY MRS. JULIA L. DUMONT.
             
             
                
                  
                      
                        The common growth of Mother Earth 
                        Suffices me-her tears-her mirth- 
                        Her humblest mirth and tears. 
                         
                        What nobler marvels than the mind 
                        May in life's daily prospect find, 
                        May find or there create? 
                     
                   
                  WORDSWORTH. 
                
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               D. APPLETON AND COMPANY,  
                     346 & 348 BROADWAY. 
                  
                
               LONDON: 16 LITTLE BRITAIN.
             
            M.DCCC.LVI. 
             
            Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1856, by D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. 
          
          
             
            TO MY TWO SONS, 
            The last of the then mirthful band, whose young feet gladdened their parental home, while the pages of this little volume were from time to time written, It is now Dedicated. 
            It was intended as a Mother's Offering to all; but now that they who have been removed are privileged with higher than Maternal teachings, and to those left the stern lessons of Life have long taken place of every other, it has become but a simple Memorial of that one Sentiment in a mother's heart which the faintness of closing life cannot deaden. 
            
               J. L. DUMONT. 
               VEVAY, February, 1856.
             
          
          
             
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               INTRODUCTORY SKETCHES-  
                     The Juveniles, 11
                      
                     The Second Anniversary Dinner, 21
                      
                  
                
               THE FIRST TEMPERANCE PLEDGE, 36
                
               THE BROTHERS, 44
                
               ESTRANGEMENT, 60
                
               THE SOLDIER'S SON, 91
                
               THE YOUNG PHYSICIAN, 108
                
               THE DEBT, 139
                
               THE PAUPER, 157
                
               THE FAMILY HISTORY, 175
                
               THE REJECTED MANUSCRIPT, 208
                
               AUNT HETTY, 227
                
               ASHTON GREY, 245
                
             
          
          
             
             
            PREFACE. 
            IT is in accordance with the original design that these stories go together as a whole, notwithstanding a small part of them have strayed singly into the journals of a past day. It is true that no thread would be broken, and no unity or harmony marred by a separation, when viewed only as tales without a purpose. Still, it is equally true that it requires the whole, fully to illustrate the principles that the author would impress. The whole were designed by her as a gift to her children. 
            A group of bright-haired boys, upon whom she looked with all the passion of a mother's love, and in whose earnest eyes she read a future of mingled fear and hope, were around her feet as she wrote. But with many a daily claim upon a mother's strength, she was slow to complete the purposed offering. Life and Death-Life with its ambitious calls, and Death with its withering grasp-made haste to bear those from her, who had inspired the effort. Those earnest eyes were at length lifted to hers no longer; -silence had fallen where young and cheerful voices responded to the evening's tale. 
            After years of sorrow, during which her sick heart forgot its long cherished purpose, she has been induced once more to resume her task, and upon finishing the series of her tales, to give them to the public. 
            She has laid her own precious ones away from the strife of life, and is now able to turn in calmness and hope from their clustered graves, but she cannot look on those whose fair young brows recall their memory and image without a sad tenderness. They are still wrestlers in a world of sorrow and of evil,-struggling, many of them, without a guiding hand, through the fierce throngs of its crowded thoroughfares. How many among them may well awake a troubled interest!-young faces touched already with weariness, with care, with the mournfulness of bereavement,-and oh! sadder still, with the hardness of reckless habitude. For such every wandering seed that, reaching their young hearts might germinate into any thing of strength, or healing, or moral beauty, is worth preservation. 
            That such seed may be thus borne from some one of her simple tales the author would fain hope, for surely among the whole, designed as has been said to inculcate some lesson under various aspects and conditions of life, there will be to every young reader some one tale that will touch the chord upon which his own feelings and habits of thought are strung. The author has attempted no ambitious aims; her tales embrace no appeals of high and gifted counsel; no startling beacons of crime and danger; but she has sought to awaken whatever of higher impulse might slumber in the undeveloped nature; to invest with their true sanctity the bonds of friendship, of domestic affection, and human trust; and to strengthen by illustration the belief so salutary to the inexperienced heart, of the existence and reality of goodness in our bad world. 
            In giving her work to the public, she neither invites nor deprecates criticism. The time has been when she might have been flattered by its notice, even while she shrunk from its scrutiny; but now, with life's evening shadows deepening around her, if her little volume only prove as the widow's mite in the great treasury of moral influence, she will be satisfied. 
          
       
      
         
            Life sketches from common paths 
             
             
            LIFE SKETCHES FROM COMMON PATHS. 
             
               INTRODUCTORY SKETCHES. 
                
                  THE JUVENILES. 
                   
                      
                        
                            
                              So sweet a spot of earth you would, I ween, 
                              Have thought some congregation of the elves 
                              To sport by Summer Moons had shaped it for themselves. 
                           
                         
                        CAMPBELL. 
                      
                   
                  "INDEPENDENCE! Independence for ever!" What a merry shout it was! No peculiar sound to American ears, for it is still yearly greeting our fair heavens, and will continue, we trust, to go up from our land through the ages to come. But that especial shout arose some sixty years ago, from scores of voices, mostly juvenile ones, that were sending it far and wide in every variation of triumphant glee, upon the clear bright air of a Fourth of July morning, not far from the Emporium of our Key Stone State. 
                  Along the green paths, that sparkled as with silver sprinklings in the morning light, a promiscuous assemblage of boys, mostly belonging to the schools of the neighboring villages, were gathering from every direction to celebrate the day together, in their own chosen fashion. The sun, as it was bound to upon that day of all others, was going up transcendently. Earth, air, and sky were arrayed in befitting gorgeousness, and in addition to "the soul of happy sound" that was spread through all things by Summer Ministrants, the swell of exultant music, and the roar of cannon, reverberating among the hills, as the merry pedestrians hastened forward, came ever and anon the quicken their young pulses. 
                  The place appointed for rendezvous was a grove, the heavy shadow of whose ancient trees lay upon a bright smooth green sward, thickened by recent susns and showers into the richest of verdure. From the root of an aged elm, whose great depth of shade flung perpetual coolness, there gushed up the sparkling waters of a living fountain, stirring its silver sands into ceaseless motion, and sending out a low perpetual music on the wide stillness of the scene. It was just the spot for such a gathering; and here they come! in what joyous groups!-what tumultuous merriment! what a manifestation of life in its freshness, rich, full, overflowing! Baskets of refreshment (they seem rather prepared for a week's supply, than that of a day) are deposited by the fountain;-and now they are laving their glowing brows into coolness in its clear, cold waters,-now dashing handfuls of its glittering drops into each other's faces,-now making a show of pushing some bending form into the urn that reflected it. Sad havoc is making with the neat array upon which fond mothers or sisters have no doubt expended hours of proud toil; but not a jot or tittle of their glee is to be abated for such consideration,-a consideration, indeed, wholly unworthy of the day. "Independence for ever!"-and that to most of our juveniles means emancipation from all restraint,-from the surveillance of mothers, and sisters, and aunts, and teachers, and guardians, and all authorities natural or constituted for at least this one day. Is there no one among them that holds a more enlarged estimate? Why, yes; as the banner erected for the occasion flings out its glorious folds, we do see more than one boy who stands for a moment gazing at its Starts and Strips with a look that reveals some indefinite stirrings of a feeling, which in future years may give him strength to die for them. Such ones are silent, but there are others of a more demonstrative cast; they are giving evidence of patriotic feeling in some swelling bursts of boyish denunciation. 
                  American boys at that date might be expected to have imbibed a liberal share of "national antipathy" to those from whom their birthright had been so lately and so hardly wrested. "Good!" says one, as a burst of cannon boomed from the village within sight; "don't it roar through the hills tremendous?-if it could reach old England now, wouldn't it make the Britishers' ears tingle? I tell you what, boys, I wish I'd been a man, and had had some share in the big battles that cowed old George and his lordlings." 
                  "But," said another, of somewhat less valorous manifestations, "what was it all about? I'd like to know that. Any how, I don't think a big battle is any thing to covet." 
                  "What was it all about!" repeated in high disdain some half-dozen voices among the older and better informed; "what was it about! A pretty question to ask just now, when the very day has come round again when we snapped our fingers at all their pretty doings." 
                  The category of wrongs and oppressions inscribed on our still fresh archives, was called over with no small emphasis. But the clamorous recapitulation was interrupted. The lighter and merrier spirits had bounded off at once to their favorite pastimes, and were now calling loudly on the remainder to join them. To the question, "What was the Stamp Act?" directed to one of our historic expounders by the same unlucky boy that had already called out rebuke, a soft, rich, though boyish voice, broke, in answer, into our National Melody: 
                         
                           "The Stamp Act?-why it was an Act, 
                           As by its name we know, Sirs, 
                           To stamp us under foot-a fact, 
                           They found to be no go, Sirs: 
                        
                         
                           So Yankee Doodle, touch it up- 
                           That's the tune so dandy: 
                           We learnt 'em all another step, 
                           And now to take it handy." 
                        
                     
                   
                   
                  The singer, a small boy of uncommon beauty, went on for some minutes travestying the details of our revolutionary history with a spirit of grace and action that seemed to supply the want of drums and fife, while the sweetness of his tones amply compensated for the lameness of the verse he thus improvised. Finally, he bounded off to the players, followed by the whole group: no further effort was made at patriotic display. The day wore on in great glee, and the sober divinities of the place were doubtless no little electrified by the shouts of the game and the strife that resounded for hours through their desecrated haunts. A moment of study would have told us that the young assemblage were not all of the same grade, condition, or habit of life. Mostly, they were sons of the working classes,-of farmers and mechanics. But there were some of more aristocratic pretension,-sons of the wealthy or distinguished families of the community. Some of these were in attendance at a grammar school of the Quaker City, whose spires were to be seen in the distance, and they have brought with them some acquaintances who are not without a dash of city air. But for the time being the overflowing of young rich life has swept over all distinction. 
                  An imperious suggestion or unscrupulous dissent might at times have given some intimation of conscious advantage of position; but in the sports of the day, superior strength and flexibility of limb and muscle gave the most immediate claim to the ascendant,-and among our young Athlet, those with embrowned hands and brow were the most frequent asserters to such claim. On the whole, the harmony of the day remained unbroken. Occasionally through the long hours some one sought a brief interval of rest. He was less vigorous, perhaps, than others, or he had exhausted himself with greater eagerness of action, or he had more complexional love of quiet. But however differently led, these seemed to have all the same rallying point. 
                  At the foot of the tree whose branches shaded the fountain, there sat a pale boy with a crutch lying beside him through the live-long day. He had come a spectator, not a sharer of its merriment. A cripple, as it would seem, from early disease, he had no recollection of such privilege. It was, in truth, that posture of feeble decrepitude, a mournful contrast to the full outpouring of strength and life around him; and yet the painful sympathy which the small and sickly frame could but elicit, was at once arrested by the placid sweetness of the face. Not that it was handsome, for the features were somewhat irregular, and its lines wore the impress of long and severe suffering; but over all this, the large, dark eye, beaming with a whole world of pleasant and gentle thought, gave an expression of the softest brightness. It deepened at times into that of thoughtful tenderness, such as in fine natures grows out of early seclusion from life's golden sunshine, but it had nothing of melancholy; a summer twilight has not less of gloom. The thoughts, the interests of the young heart were evidently outward. There was no mistaking that look; the earnest gaze with which he watched the gay parties of the game, was full of cheerful sympathy-that sympathy so especially rare which takes part in others' happiness. No wonder he is a favorite, as, to all who know him he obviously is. We hear the name of "Harley Ives" in some cheerful call from the players again and again, and it is beside him at every recess that they fling themselves for rest. But for this, the day to him must have worn heavily. The excitement of the game he watches, seems at times to weary him; he turns away and picks the clover blossoms, and flings them listlessly from him. But a step approaches, and the pale face brightens. They come to tell him the details of the game-to find a listener for their own exploits-to give utterance to some "passing spasm" of disaffection, and his smile welcomes them all. All, however, come not from these motives. Now and then one breaks off from the sport unwearied, and comes to sit a half hour with the lonely boy for his own sake; these, too, are often of those who have the very fullest measure of vitality. Not an unfrequent visitant is Jack Hallidon, the musical spirit of the morning, breaking off from the gay ring where he seems the very genius of merry fellowship. He flings himself beside the invalid, regardless of the calls of those he has left, and amuses both himself and Harley by touching the incidents of the day into quaint significance, or taking off, though always good-humoredly, the blunders of some unlucky comrade. And then comes one, stretching himself leisurely beside the young cripple with a face not only full of health and the glow of morning life, but with a cast of maturer power. He speaks to Harley in the tones of a fond brother. He is something the older of the two, but there is a special community of feeling between them. We feel it at a glance. Harley's soft smile takes a deepened expression, and as their boyish colloquy glances back at various tender reminiscences we are able to trace the bond. It has grown out of many a long hour devoted in the flushness of health and gayety by Sidley Collingwood (that was his name) to the stricken boy through many a season of former suffering. 
                  So the day wore on-to the pale cripple, perhaps, most pleasantly of all. He has made some new acquaintance-has found interest in all he has seen or heard. With the lengthening shadows, Sidley Collingwood has come to him at last for good: and now they are entering with great glee into all the interests of the day. They have separate details to discuss, gathered in its various chance contacts, and more than one illustrative glance is given at the actors yet on the scene. 
                  "Did you notice," said Harley Ives, "the slender boy, that stood by your side so long this morning, looking at the flag? He left the ground some time ago." 
                  "Oh yes; they called him Alvah Hamilton,-a handsome fellow, wasn't he? And he didn't owe it to fine clothes, though some one said he was front the city." 
                  "No wonder he is not dressed fine, poor fellow!" said Harley. "They say he is the son of a poor old soldier, who got blind in the war, and Alvah supports him by doing errands, or any chance job he can get. That's the way he came here to-day. He brought a letter to some gentleman in the village, and was to wait for the answer. But the person was not at home, and he joined us boys to pass away the time while he was waiting." 
                  "A first-rate fellow I think he is too," said Sidley; "he took the shine off of our boys in some of the games, I can tell you. Somehow, Harley, I don't believe he will be always an errand boy. Any how," continued Sidley, his fine open face taking a musing expression that was not unusual to it, "he's got the inheritance the old soldier paid his eyes for." 
                  "Inheritance, Sidley! I don't know what you mean," rejoined Harley, the simplicity of the answer contrasting pleasantly with the intelligence of his young face. "Didn't I say the old man was poor, as well as blind?" 
                  "True," replied the other, smiling with great kindness upon the earnest questioner, "'tis his inheritance as a free man I mean, Harley-the freedom and the rights that are secured to us all. The poor boy, you know, is as independent now as the rich one." 
                  "Well, that is something, I suppose," said Harley, a little faintly, "but every body don't seem to remember it. There's some boys," he added, his eye settling as he directed it again to the players upon a boy of singularly haughty though intellectual aspect, "that would like to run over the others any way. Moreton Dewer, the boys say, always speaks to them as if he was their master." 
                  Sidley looked at the boy in question with a peculiar smile. "Ah, Moreton Dewer does think the earth was made for him, and all the boys thereof for his subjects. It is a pity he cannot be king, he would king it so gloriously." 
                  "I'd rather be liked a little better," said Harley, "than to be king a thousand times. 'Tis curious how the boys shy off from him, all but Wayland Russell; and he has a way, you know, to get along with every body; and if Moreton has a liking for any one in the world, they say it is for him. But the other boys have no fancy for his friendship. Some of them, to-day, pinned on to his coat (which he had left off) a slip of paper, that had written on it, 'All boys are free and equal.' But I thought it would blow up a breeze, and I coaxed them to take it off." 
                  "First rate," said Sidley, laughing, "but it was well enough to keep it back, Harley. We wanted fair weather to-day, though such boys ought to see their own measure. There's Lawrence Ellesley, almost as bad as Moreton, not so overbearing and ill-natured; but poor boys' ways go against his feelings. You should have seen Charles Delancey cut them both up-the handsome city boy, you know, who was with me when I first came, and staid with you awhile this morning. There he is now, putting on his fine clothes-just as he flung them off this morning, as if they were nothing worth. They say his father is rich and proud; but a freer boy than Charles Delancey would be hard to find." 
                  "Oh yes; I remember his saying he came out on purpose to have a real day, and that he liked country air, and country boys, and country every thing the best." 
                  "Well, he has gone into the sport to-day with his whole heart; whatever he likes or dislikes. But he seems to take naturally to those who are of stuff to bear ringing. Some of the boys have paddled round and round him to-day without getting a bit nearer; but there's Thed Roland, and George and William Branham, they are the poorest boys on the ground, so far as money goes. Thed, too, is a little odd, and the boys call him stingy; but there's nothing mean or truckling about e'er-a-one of them, you know, for in all our games and plays, they are always just the square thing. Well, Charles had 'em singled out directly, and the way he kept them up with them that thought themselves so much taller!-it would have done your heart good to see it." 
                  "'Tis something to hear of," said Harley, clapping his thin hands with delight. "I like these boys the best of all of them, except Jack Hallidon, and he's independent of any body, for he always brings the sunshine to the place he stands on; but the others, it is such a new thing for them to have a good holiday-I am so glad of it." 
                  "And so am I. Poor fellows! they can be merry as the best of us when they have a chance, and that, as you say, is seldom enough. Thed has a tight master, and that's reason enough he can't be generous; and for George Branham, he is the very hardest working boy I know of, for he don't only do his own share, but William's, whom, somehow, he makes a great pet of, and don't seem to like the wind to blow on." 
                   
                  "I have noticed that often; but who is that boy, Sidley, standing just now by Charles Delancey, with such dark eyes? Don't they look like the water in that deep place in the spring?" 
                  "Well they did when I got him at last to talking with me. But I did not like him so very well at first. Charles Delancey whom he came with, however, seemed to have a great liking for him, and this brought us together. His name is Ned Smith. He did not go into our plays very heartily, but seemed a good deal of the time in a sort of study like. Charles asked him how many problems he had worked out since he had been on the ground, and after that he tried, I thought, to be freer, and the way his face brightened up when he did talk, and his serious look grew so kind and pleasant. But here they all come by the dozen;-time, too, I suppose, for just look at the sun, 'tis an hour since I left them. You must have done up Independence, boys, about square." 
                  This seemed to be the general sentiment. All flung themselves on the grass for a final rest, except two or three, who withdrew rather stiffly. Of these were Moreton Dewer and Lawrence Ellesley, and we perceive Jack Hallidon, the young Patroclus of the day, making a pantomimic exhibit of the dignity of their exit. The day was closing in full keeping with its morning splendor. The sun was going down with that burning train which occasionally floods the whole earth with such glorious fires. And there, in scattered groups, the young forms lay with the fine limbs so lately stretched to their utmost tension, now thrown in perfect abandonment on the velvet turf. How many a line of character might now be traced in those upturned faces. Where among them shall we distinguish those of whom we have already gathered such slight data? We would fain deepen their image upon our reader's memory, and here, forming the group drawn more immediately around our two friends, we get yet a second glimpse of them. If our touches have not been altogether at fault, they are easy to be recognized. That light, airy figure, lying at length with the head thrown back across the lap of a dark-haired boy of much the same age-a figure, despite its entire abandonment, invested with an unmistakable air of aristocratic breeding, is Charles Delancey; and he that supports the fine head, and to whom the laughing eyes are lifted with the same mock expression, with which he is imploring pity for his fatigue-he with the large clear brow, and those premature lines of thought and character, is Ned Smith. Something about the grave-faced boy with whom Sidley Collingwood has entered into such friendly and familiar confab, indicates George Branham. The hands are those of toil-the young cheek and brow darkly embrowned; the eye is dark and fine, bespeaking a deep nature, perhaps a somewhat proud one; while near him a much fairer and more cheerful face has yet sufficient points of resemblance to identify the younger brother so fondly beloved, so unreasonably favored; and lastly, that fourth one, a silent boy with a shy, almost subdued look, drawn a little apart from the rest as shunning notice,-we recognize in him the rather odd boy referred to by Sidley as Thed Roland. But we turn at length from these to all that lie grouped before us. How should we look at any without interest? Youth and freshness and the grace of comeliness are about them all. All are to go out wrestlers on the world's wide and perilous arena, and the beauty and glory of this their life's morning, will soon melt from them, even as the sunset fires are now fading from our vision. Never again will they all meet. They will go out to fulfil unknown but different destinies; they will be scattered far and wide! Truly the train of thought is a mournful one, and our readers will not be sorry to have it dispelled by the stir of the final breaking up. To ourself, the wide "Good night! good night!" from those many young voices, gayly though it be uttered, hath yet an under mournfulness of tone; we listen with a half sad feeling, even to the lively strain of "Yankee Doodle," struck up once more in the singularly sweet voice and inspiriting tones of Jack Hallidon, and sounding on still in the distance as we turn at last from the scene. 
                
                
                   
                  THE SECOND ANNIVERSARY DINNER. 
                   
                      
                        
                            
                              Lives there the man with soul so dead, 
                              Who never to himself hath said, 
                              This is my own, my native land! 
                           
                         
                        SCOTT. 
                      
                   
                  "WHAT a stale sentiment!" Your pardon, dearest reader, true sentiment is never stale. This of our motto had stirred millions of hearts for thousands of years before it was thus woven into song, and will still stir them through all time, as full, as deep, as fresh as when the Last Minstrel poured it forth in the flood-tide of his glowing strain. Not faintly, though perhaps not forcing itself into audible utterance, was it stirring the heart of one, who, nearly forty years after the period of our last chapter and towards the close of a soft, breezy summer day, was walking over a beautiful domain of which he had recently become the purchaser and occupant. 
                  Though apparently a stranger there, there was something in the eye and manner of the new comer denoting a familiar interest in the scenes and objects, alike near or distant, that were within his gaze. Nor should they be altogether unfamiliar to our reader; for it is the selfsame spot whose echoing shades, in the scene already described, were invaded by the presence and shouts of congregated boyhood. 
                  Many years, it is true, had elapsed since that memorable day of juvenile glorification-years, too, of rapid and striking change on every hand; though of such change only as that from dawn to the day's full spring-tide. Villages had grown into cities, and the hum of life now went up where the pathless forests of centuries then stood. Such were the changes of the land over which the mind's eye of the stranger seemed to have glanced. But it so happened that this particular spot, chancing to be something out of the way of the mighty car of improvement, though it had thundered around it on every hand, had remained almost the same. 
                  The nearest village was one of the many that had become a city; and the City of Penn, at that time but partially visible in the distance, seemed now, from its increased extent, much nearer; but the domain itself was little changed. Something it had assuredly gathered of the oblivious tendencies of time, but many of the lineaments were yet to be easily recognized. The grove was lessened, but the lofty elms that cast their heavy shadows over the fountain from which the place had taken its distinctive name, had been spared. Those shadows rested still on the same tender, luxuriant greensward, and the spring-its waters were bubbling up as pure, as unwasted, as cool, as sparkling, as when scooped up so lavishly to bathe the young brows, glowing with the exercise of our long gone by anniversary.
                   
                  The scene, too, as then, was dressed in the glories of the summer prime-rich, leafy, gorgeous summer; and by some genial coincidence at that moment, far and wide, the whole surrounding landscape was flooded with the same sunset fires that poured their glory upon those fair young heads. More than all, the same anniversary is at hand. The ear of the stranger has been struck with the note of preparation for its triumphal advent. From more than one eminence within his gaze there was already floating the same Flag of Stars and Stripes, though with its thirteen stars doubled in number. He had, as we have noticed, turned a look of pride upon every indication of the Land's strong growth; but upon reaching the fountain he remained long in a musing posture, as if buried in a train of less general thought. A shade of softer feeling passes over his countenance-his eye is fixed on the gush of the fountain, but its expression is inward; he is evidently busy with the past. Some early memory, some image of other days, has been stirred within him. There is nothing, however, about the musing stranger, in face or form, to lead one out, as we look at him, in a train of idle or romantic fancies. He is one descending with quiet dignity the western slope of life. The hair, though its original blackness was dominant enough to set off a rather noble head, was sparingly flecked with silver; but the smooth outlines of the face bespoke health alike of mind and frame. It was a face to look at with pleasure-kind and unworldly, and deepened in its lines by no heart strife, or far reachings of ambition. The look, even apart from his present mood, was a little meditative, but not as if self-engrossed. It indicated one who, a little withdrawn from the turmoil of life, loved to sit and listen dreamingly to its hum-amused with its follies, but still smiling benevolently on the actors, and with an ear quick to catch its slightest note of sorrow. We find that within the two or three days just past, he has loitered for hours in what, at our earlier recollection, was the village, but as we have already said, was now the city within near view,-asking innumerable questions about persons and things that nobody seemed to know or care for. Once or twice he has been seen about the old graveyard, raising up fallen tombstones, and examining half-effaced inscriptions, as if with some interest allied to that of Old Mortality. We connect all this with his present aspect, and think our reader might begin to ask, who he is. 
                  He has just stood a whole half hour without moving, though not without some shifting shadows over the broad and still smooth brow. Suddenly, however, the whole expression changes. Eye and bearing betoken more stirring mood. A thought has obviously crossed him, belonging wholly to the present. A pleasant one, too, it would seem, from the way the placid eye is lighted up; though for some moments he is apparently casting it over in his mind with something of indecision. The scruples, if scruples they were, are however finally banished-not by slow reasoning process, but dismissed off-hand, and with the conscious smile of one determining himself flatly in a purpose he suspects to be a little absurd-at the least, fanciful. But the equivocal smile settles presently into one of serene and purely benevolent pleasure; he has forgotten himself in his dream of others, and now he turns away with a step and manner that seemed to say he had much to do
                   
                  "A penny for your thoughts," said a lovely woman, whose eye for the last few hours had often turned with an inquiring, almost anxious interest, upon the personage we have introduced, and who had all the day previous come and gone and sauntered through his rich room with a most preoccupied air. The wife, for such she was, though many years younger than him she addressed, was evidently little accustomed to such want of notice.-"A penny for your thoughts, my dear," she said, laying her white hand on his shoulder as he moved back from the breakfast table,-"you have scarcely spoken to me for the last twenty-four hours." 
                  "Haven't I?-that's shameful, Mary: but I was just going to tell you my thoughts; I should have told you before, but I have been so busy-though in truth that was the first claim there was upon me. But you shall be revenged, Mary, by helping me. I want you to direct for to-morrow a choice and sumptuous dinner-a real Fourth of July dinner," he added, "and have it set under the elms by the fountain where I took you with the children last evening." 
                  "Why, my dear, what a fancy! Won't it be just as well at the house here?-or will the extra labor," added the wife with the softest glance, "give it gusto?" 
                  "No, but the shade will-and the fresh air, and the coolness, and forty other accessories. Will you have it there, Mary?" 
                  "Assuredly, if you wish it, just for ourselves, is it,-the dinner?" 
                  "Well, I can't say positively; there may be a few guests-some half-dozen, perhaps-possibly more; in truth, it is quite as likely there may not be any." 
                  "Exceedingly satisfactory," said the wife, "as to the definiteness of preparation. What mystification have you really on foot? Do you purpose going out into the highways for your guests?" 
                  "Not exactly, though certainly a little like it. There!" said the husband, something of the conscious smile he had worn for a moment in his musings by the fountain coming over his face, as he handed her the Journal of the morning, and pointed to a second advertisement,-"there! that will explain." 
                  Mary ran it rapidly over. 
                   
                  "Should this late card be fortunate enough to meet in time the eye of any one who, thirty-eight years ago, formed a part of the boyish gathering at Spring Grove, he is earnestly solicited, in memory of Auld Lang Syne, to spend the present Fourth at the same place." 
                  The signature is "Sidley Collingwood;" and to our readers that should be matter of ready memory connected with the day in question. So brief mention of the name, however, has been made in our former pages, that we will excuse forgetfulness in that particular; but we trust at least they have not forgotten the sunny, though somewhat musing face, so often seen on that day by the crippled Harley; and if so, they will now recognize the same pleasant lines, however touched by years, still kind, open and trustful, in the countenance of him before us. 
                  The wife's look had lost nothing of its softness as she lifted it from the paper to meet her husband's. 
                  "These, then, are to be the guests?" 
                  "Yes, if any; though that is certainly doubtful. I did not think of the affair in time; and my card, though I have sent it the rounds of city and village, is probably too late. Quite a bit of romance, isn't it, Mary, for such a matter-of-fact body to get up?" 
                  "I do not know that it is particularly out of character," said Mary, with a quiet twinkle of the eye, not exactly calculated to satisfy him, though its glance was lifted most kindly to his face; "and so I shall count on a dozen guests, shall I?" 
                  "Really," she added, fancying, perhaps, that he looked a little serious, "I think the project a delightful one." 
                  "You are a very jewel of a wife!" said the husband, looking at her with a fondness of expression that banished every other, "and if our guests fail us in toto, we shall have ourselves and the children-and that's enough for all reasonable comfort; and as for our viands, if there's a surplusage, there's always empty tables enough that we ought to gladden." 
                  The wife stood for some moments after he left her with swimming eyes. Then she seemed trying to settle in her mind the first step in the order of preparation; and a brief space after we hear her soft voice with the cook in full discussion of the "mysteries" by which the dainty supplies, momently arriving by order of the master, are to be wrought into the most tempting display. And now should any one ask why, in the very place of his birth and boyhood, Sidley Collingwood is yet a stranger, we will pause to say, that from the scenes and interests stirring him so vividly, he has been estranged almost from the day of our former introduction-his years of boyhood completed in a distant city, and his after life, till the present, spent under tropic skies. So much for the particular reader. 
                  But the morrow; well, it comes, and with it breaks once more the anniversary morning; clear, bright and glorious still, and with its wonted accompaniments-the roar of cannon, the gathering of freemen, the waving of banners, the swell of martial music. The time had gone by for these things to quicken the blood of Sidley Collingwood as it had been quickened, but there was too much of the feeling of brotherhood in his full soul not to share something of the spirit of the hour. It was not without a beaming eye that he took his hat to become a spectator of the pageant; but having thus disposed of an hour or two, he returned to his house with a look not altogether as settled as was his wont. 
                  He took up a paper-threw it down-walked out to a clump of elms-removed some slight rubbish from the fountain-went back, and stood-though the cook's eyes opened wide with surprise-looking smilingly in at the door of the kitchen, and for some moments watching the progress of the dinner. Then he passed on to Mary, where she stood arranging jellies and ice creams-"was afraid she was taking too much fatigue on herself-(though the fair face looked any thing but jaded)-wished she would leave every thing to the housekeeper-'twas a foolish affair, any way." 
                  There was great simplicity in the character of our friend, but he had decidedly some perception of the blankness of a failure that he did not care to acknowledge. Mary's smile of assurance did not go for nothing; but the minutes-could the clock have got out of order?-lengthened themselves out contrary to all precedent; the veriest philosopher might have been a little fidgety. But all misgivings finally proved idle. Mary's ready trust had not been vain. Carriages were approaching from different directions, and some time before the dinner hour, three portly personages, whose names, self-announced, were familiarly remembered (though little in form or face would have identified either as the playmate of his boyhood), had been welcomed as such, and presented with the most heartsome pleasure to the fair and graceful wife. We have some instinctive feeling that these are not of those who have been most fondly remembered, but they were sharers with him of early pastime, and that is enough. They too are gratified. How should it be otherwise?-the joyous day, the rich welcome, the mingled air of luxurious taste and comfort around them-it was not in nature to escape enjoyment. True, they spoke rather carelessly not only of the several chances that had brought them at that particular juncture within reach of the card of invitation, but of the accidental impulses that had led them severally to respond to it. But they were very sociable; a little stately as became their position. One of them was a Senator; a second was Secretary in some high official department; and the third Governor of a neighboring State. Their host was aware of their respective dignities, having attained that knowledge in his eager search for familiar names through the papers of the day; and richly did his genial smile, in referring to their positions, attest his pleasure in their advancement. He had, however, to task himself somewhat to keep these things in remembrance. His feelings had stood on tiptoe, as it were, to meet them on other ground-the memories and scenes of years gone by; it was but the natural yearning of a deep heart, long estranged from country and native home. But these were feelings scarcely to be understood by those who had no severed links to reunite. His guests, indeed, had long lost the trick of sentiment in the heated atmosphere of political lists. They talked on and on without perceiving that the rich glow of Collingwood's face had paled, and public interests, and men and measures, gave small place to topics connected only with life's greener places. Again and again he strove to bring them back to early memories, to those who had been actors with them in tenderer though transient interests. Some of these he knew had been laid in the dust, with their fair brows undimmed by the cares of mature years-he had deciphered more than one name through the mould of the long-neglected tombstone-but there were others, whose memory came back brightly to him. They can surely tell him of some of these, and he is not mistaken. Slowly some few of them are traced out. He has run over a list of names, and asked of each almost peremptorily. The answers are cold and brief; but what histories are in those brief replies. One lies at the River Raisin (at whose dark record he has often shuddered); another is a millionnaire; and Sidley Collingwood smiles as he recalls tokens of the acquisitiveness that had led to such results. Another's bright hair has been mingled with the sea-weed; and yet another's (perhaps the fairest of all), alas! the golden head he so vividly remembered, had been shorn for a life-entrance into a State Prison. Among the names of which the host so eagerly inquired, was one which our readers may perchance remember-'Jack Hallidon'-how it had rung through the merry rings of the Spring Grove play-ground, and now it brings back to the questioner but the image of the bright young favorite who seemed made only for sunshine. But to the only one of our guests who remembered him since a boy, it had sadder associations. He, in memory of their boyish intimacy, which had chanced to be especially fond, speaks of him with even a touch of sadness. Jack Hallidon had long since fallen from his bright estate; the light of the generous young nature had been early darkened by dissipation. For years his early friend had lost all knowledge of him; but some few months since, in passing through Philadelphia, he saw him borne sick, wasted, and imbecile, to the city hospital! 
                  Almost sorrowfully as our stately guest told the brief tale, no wonder that Sidley Collingwood looked deeply troubled. But he was not one to feel only, where he might still act. Jack Hallidon, then, was within reach; and consigning his guests for a few moments to his wife's attention, he had within that time written to him a line full of affectionate greetings, and sent his own carriage for him to the hospital. 
                  Then he returned to them with that openness of countenance which the conventional distinctions of life could never cloud with a moment's disturbance or perplexity. 
                  "I have sent for one more guest, my friends, especially. Poor Jack must be with us to-day, debased as he may be." 
                  Under the circumstances, our guests could hardly look dissatisfaction. Conversation glided into general channels; and dinner, that sound so stirring to American feelings, is at last announced. Our host points out to the guests the waving elms by the fountain. 
                  "They are the trees we played under, and we have set our table there." Some slight chords must certainly have responded to the simple touch! Nothing, in truth, could have been more delightful than were all the arrangements. Mary had fulfilled her part with entire success; the viands looked exquisitely tempting; and our statesmen took their seats under the cool, wide shadows, with palpable satisfaction. Were these, then, to be the only guests? Sidley glanced at the empty seats with something like a sigh. But the feeling was soon to pass-the dinner was destined for yet other sharers. At one of the hotels of the city within view, there had been within the last half hour some arrivals, of such lucky coincidence, as leaves on our full daily record of mishaps and evils a mark. Two persons, both past the middle age, had met there with that kind of greeting which bespeaks, not frequent intercourse, but warm and cherished remembrance. 
                  "Why, Harley, how are you?" exclaimed one of them, springing with a light step from his own carriage, while the other alighted from the stage. "Why, this is just a meeting for the day-the anniversary that isn't to wear out while suns and stars roll-always a bright day with me. You have not forgotten our old celebration, have you? We are a little changed since then, hey? But we've had our day-we must give up fairly. How have you been, dear Harley?-time treats you gently. Are you better than formerly?" 
                   
                  "Oh, yes, travelling always suits me; I am quite well," said the other, whom we think we should have known had he not been named. 
                  How could we be mistaken in a face still so true to memory? Its character is deepened-we fancy, as we look at it, almost spiritualized; but the lines are little changed. The rich smile, the large, dark, loving eye, are the same that met us so many years ago, as we noticed the pale cripple sitting by the fountain. The tones of the voice even, though now fuller, had the same gentle, silver sound, and the feeble frame-no, we cannot mistake it! still supported by a crutch, and contrasting strongly with that of the first speaker, who stood strong and vivacious, with the air of high health as well as elegance, and with a face, despite the wear of years, denoting the unwasted wealth of a most sunny nature. The expression is not unfamiliar, and we know that another of our boyish acquaintances is before us. They passed up the steps of the hotel together, but Charles Delancey (for it is he) has his eye caught by a posted-up advertisement. 
                  "Why, Harley, have you seen this?" 
                  "No, what is it?" 
                  "Well, read! Both our good stars to-day are in the ascendant. Spring Grove! Why, the very name is cooling. Its shades to-day will be perfect Elysium. I never pass its old elms without sighing for a siesta there. Who is there of us to meet this queer summons? What a sage gathering we shall be. And this Sidley Collingwood-who is he?" 
                  Harley Ives turned from the advertisement he was a second time reading. 
                  "You have forgotten him then?-but you met him, I think, but for one day; he never brought comfort to you as he did to me for years. The good do not die first, or Sidley Collingwood would not have been here to give us such bidding." 
                  "Ah, Harley! you shall write my epitaph. Well, his call, on our part, must be promptly responded to. Upon my word, it is a most stirring and delightful one. Step into my carriage, and we will be at the Grove instantly. I wonder," he continued, as he took his seat beside Harley Ives, "if there are no other of our boys in some of these crowds. Isn't that Thed Roland?" he inquired, as a person near them with a quick business step passed on. "You see I manage to keep some run of our old acquaintance." 
                  "That is Thed Roland," said Harley Ives, "and he that he has just met and is speaking to, is John Lancaster, another of the boys, though I suppose you don't remember him. I wonder if Sidley's summons has reached them?" 
                  "We must see;" and Delancey's gay greeting brought the two men up. The one addressed by our friends as Mr. Roland, does not answer to any image that memory might have kept of our young acquaintance; but we are not permitted to doubt the identity. 
                  "Why were they not hastening to Spring Grove?" 
                  Roland smiles. They are notignorant of the summons, but are evidently not intending to obey it. The singularly grave aspect of him named by Harley as John Lancaster, betokens no relish for such festive call, and Thed himself, the shy apprentice-boy of our early recollection, seems with his quick eye and prompt manner to have business habitudes and claims that admit of little indulgence. But Delancey's gay importunity and Harley's smile are irresistible. They decline the proffered seat in the carriage, but consent to walk on to the grove. Alighting at no great distance from the dinner party, Delancey and his friend waiting till they come up, they pass on together, and the first course is not over when they arrive. What an accession! How did Mary's eye, a little chilled by the imposing character of the previous guests, brighten; how did the face of the host, as he rose to receive them, answer to all they could recall of his earnest yet finely-tempered boyhood. Charles Delancey is known and named at once by the former guests; and he, as he shakes hands with his host, names Thed Roland and John Lancaster; but there was small need of naming the silent cripple. Through the beaming eyes he had lifted to those of his early friend, there looked the same gentle spirit that had won the kindnesses so fondly and gratefully remembered-a spirit, however chastened, still trustful and happy. Sidley's eye deepened: he extended him his hand, but it was not enough; and he folded him at last in a close embrace, without which his heart would have been unsatisfied. 
                  The dinner was resumed; eight of those who, so many years since, spread their joyous meal on the greensward now under their feet, were seated at the table. It was more, perhaps, than might reasonably have been anticipated, and Sidley's large heart was filled. Men they were upon whom life had long set a distinctive seal-of different attainments, pursuit and station. Yet were they all such as the truly republican heart of Sidley Collingwood might proudly acknowledge as his countrymen. 
                  His more aristocratic guests, though somewhat more inaccessible to fine sympathies than he could have wished, were men of intelligence and questionless integrity. Charles Delancey, he soon learned, had high tone of character, with wide professional fame; and in Theodore Roland, with that manliness of bearing which, arising only from conscious worth, lifts all men to the same level, he saw a representative of that noble class who bring science and intelligence to mechanic operation. In the face and manner, too, of John Lancaster, there was an interest apart from the few lines familiar to memory-a something to win and to fasten respect. The social wine-cup passed with no stinted freedom, but John Lancaster at once declined it-so quietly as to draw little of notice, but with a decision that allowed no further importunity. And Harley Ives, the one he loved-it was easy to see the native refinement-the pure and tender character of his boyhood, had been long since wrought into that higher tone, in which gracious instincts have been confirmed by principle, and the gentle spirit has become more holily serene in the steadfast aims and meek strength of duty. But however distinct our little party might be in character and habit, the present hour could but unite them once more in pleasant fellowship. Not only did the dinner go off in high keeping with the day, but the spirit of sociality lost nothing of its influence when the table was at last removed moved. How could it be otherwise? The viands had been so refreshing-the shadows so cool-the fountain so clear-the look of the host spoke such volumes of happiness; Mary's fair face reflected all its light, and even the children-(pattern children are not always found at the tables of our friends)-diffused only such sparkles through the social circle as might be flung from the wing of some bright-plumed bird. Our aristocratic guests were at last fairly melted out of their dignity, and become almost school-boys. Harley Ives, who was not merely remembered as the little cripple, but had been known to more than one of them through many years, had soon a place in the hearts of all. The winning simplicity of his boyhood, which in manner he still retained, carried them back irresistibly to other days. His touch made many a little reminiscence common ground, and brightened incident after incident long since forgotten, into the liveliest interest. 
                  "Ah," said Charles Delancey to the guests who had been so hardly drawn within the spell of the hour, "who would be a politician? How green Ives has kept the only paths, in fact, that ever are truly green in this world;-our hearts were long ago as 'dry as summer dust,' and for fine tones our ears deaf as adders. Who could fail to lose the taste for even nature's sweetest melody by striving for the world's honors, or delving for her gold!" 
                  But Sidley Collingwood felt that the heart of the speaker at least was not dry-that the sunshine which his gay spirit still flung around him, had its warmth from feeling, and from that hour, the remembrance of boyish partiality ripened into a friendship that, I believe, never afterwards faded. 
                  But the day with all its pleasant influences at last wore away. One shadow had fallen on its high enjoyment. The man that had been sent for the still fondly remembered companion of boyish pastime (however changed from the image kept of him), returned alone. A higher summons than Sidley Collingwood's had preceded his; and "to that table, I trust," thought our friend mournfully, "to which the poor and the needy, the sick, the wretched and the suffering are especially called." When the carriage riage reached the gate of the hospital, a faded hearse without a single follower passed through it, with all that remained of poor Jack Hallidon. 
                   
                  All our friends never again met together. The evergoing wheels of life brought their daily changes, and we are able to trace them collectively no further. But the interest that had been so freshly awakened did not at once, or for years, perhaps, wholly subside. Harley Ives was not permitted to take leave with the other guests, but remained for many weeks at Spring Grove. Charles Delancey became a frequent as well as a most welcome visitant; and from time to time, as the present master became known once more in the community around him, he found yet a fresh guest to bring to his ever hospitable table, with whom he had run, and leaped, and pitched the quoit, and knocked the ball at the juvenile celebration. At these meetings fresh memories were always stirred, and not unfrequently brief tales, connected with remembered names, elicited. The little histories that make up our volume were thus gathered. 
                  In a few instances they were drawn from the parties themselves, but the most of them were narrated by our friend Ives. We ourself had the good fortune, at this conjuncture of time, to become a somewhat permanent guest under the same friendly roof, and was a frequent auditor. We had long known Harley Ives as the most trusted of friends; and though we had already heard some of his little narratives, we made it a point they should not now be told in our absence. 
                  No doubt these tales might have been somewhat unconsciously colored by the soft light of his own gentle nature, but they were gathered from authentic sources. An agent for years in some of the various schemes of good, projected by the benevolent spirits of the day, he had been a sojourner from village to village, and city to city, and always with an ear, that, as Delancey said, seemed only to hear "the low deep tones of humanity." That in these journeyings he had met with many of the sharers of the memorable Independence, and gathered from their own lips, details tails to be long treasured in a heart so full of sympathy, is no marvel. 
                  It chanced thus, that of all those especially presented to the reader while yet "the light of their boyhood's days was round them," we have been able to give much of their subsequent history; though of our friend Collingwood we have gathered little in detail, except what his daily life in connection with a few leading events has afforded us. He had been united at an early age to the object of a passionate first love; and when death a short time after bore off the fair young bride to his own dark chambers, the widowed bridegroom sought forgetfulness of sorrow in the abandonment of his native land. In the employ of a commercial house in India for many years, he amassed wealth, and after a long season devoted to mournful memories, found one at last to fill the vacant place in his heart. In the gentle and tender Mary, the rich affections of his nature, so long gone to waste, were once more bound up; and though the floodtide of his noon was past, a new day-spring of happiness broke upon his existence, and remained unclouded. Amid the small chosen circle which he now delighted to gather about him in the land of his birth; and again surrounded by the scenes and the chosen friends of early days, his own benevolent and genial smile rarely failed to call out an accordant tone. 
                
             
             
                
               THE FIRST TEMPERANCE PLEDGE. 
               IT was a brief tale that, which was first drawn from one of our late dinner guests-and from the lips that seemed the least likely of all to be opened for that purpose. A tale, too, it was, that in these days of established reform may seem of but hackneyed interest-one of the hundreds now meeting the eye of the reader, that are transcripts of the same domestic ruin. I cannot give it the freshness it had to its then auditors, nor the thrilling impressiveness it received from the tones, deep to solemnity, in which it was uttered. Well, the reader may pass it over-we will give it, nevertheless. 
               An evening or two after my arrival at the Grove, Harley Ives pressed our host to accompany him to a temperance lecture in the city. "You will be interested in the lecturer, if not in the lecture, for it is John Lancaster. He is waging high war with an evil that in truth is advancing upon us with terrible strides." 
               When they returned, they brought the lecturer with them-the cordial and urgent importunity of our friend Collingwood had overruled his scruples. I looked at the fresh guest with some interest. A plain man with a strong frame, a little bowed, it would seem, by labor, but the face was full of a grave earnestness-an expression as of one absorbing thought, an interest that filled his being. He had evidently been engaged in discussing with his host and Harley Ives the subject of the evening's lecture; and after the little ceremonies of greeting and introduction were over, continued speaking to them, though in a voice so low, that, but for its singular depth, it would have been inaudible. "You no doubt wonder," said he, "that one like me should attempt public lecturing; but I cannot be silent. There is a power upon me that cries, Speak! speak! You know not, perhaps, sir, that I have been a drunkard. Harley Ives does, and faithfully did he strive to win me from it. I promised you some time, Harley, the details of my redemption, and if it will not weary your friends here-" The doubt was silenced-sincerely.
                
               "When this curse fell on me," he resumed, moving so that the moonlight ceased to fall on his face, "the whole earth had not a being happier than I was. I had passed from boyhood to manhood without a spot on my name. The look of a gray-headed father was upon me with trust and pride; and the dying blessing of my mother was on my heart. I married the woman I loved, and learned to know her worth yet more deeply. I had a thriving trade-the laughter of my children rung musically on my ear as I worked. I had a better education than most of my class-but the curse came! gradually, for a time imperceptibly. I have no need to go into the details, you have all witnessed the downward course of the drunkard. Slowly I went down, but I went down wholly. Slowly our pleasant home passed from under our feet; slowly Agnes died; but the time came when all these things were finished. 
               "Agnes had taken her new-born babe to her breast and gone to sleep, and I turned from the grave where they laid her to get a dram, and did not know I was accursed of God and man. My children-three of whom survived her and were left to me-she had given to her God-she knew there was no other to have a care for them. Gracious heaven! what did I doom them to-freezing, hunger, harshness, brutal harshness. My dutiful child-my pretty babes-Agnes' children whom she would have shielded from a harsh breath with her life. Well: with all this kind of thing you are familiar-'tis witnessed under the fair face of heaven day by day. My hour of redemption came. I had been drunk,-I know not where, nor how long. I had slept, most likely for hours, for I woke to a clear sense of my position. I was lying in the corner of the meeting-house into which I suppose I had unconsciously staggered. It was night, but lights were around me, and persons assembled there for worship. Some one was trying to take me out. A deep, though tremulous voice, said: 'Let him be; we had better pray for him.' A shiver passed over me, and I crouched down among the benches. That same voice rose in prayer from the pulpit. I had a sense that the speaker was praying for me, and all of my degraded class; though for some time there was a confusion in my mind that made the impression indistinct. When a great evil presses upon a people, there comes a time always when they rise to battle with it; but there are forerunners of this-prophetic souls, as it were, that early see the ruin to which other eyes seem shut. Such was the aged preacher, whose trembling voice now came on my ear. 
               "Temperance advocates have since then risen through the land, but at that time there was no generally awakening interest in the cause. That old man had long made it a frequent effort of his ministry. 
               "The sight of the poor wretch that lay grovelling in the sanctuary had now stirred all his spirit. His text was taken expressly for the subject. His voice had been at first feeble, but had grown strong, and he lifted it up. Mighty is human eloquence when inspired by divine love!-What words of burning power fell from that old man's lips!-my very soul felt withered by them, as I sat back alone; for the congregation, as they well might, avoided me. But the strength of the feeble old man at last gave way. 'I can speak no longer,' he said, 'yet I have not done-to-morrow night I will give you what further I have on my mind on this subject.' Yet he continued still to speak-he seemed unable to close. It was no longer a regular discourse, but an exhortation of unspeakable fervor-it was Christian love wrestling in strong agony to break the bonds of the drunkard-love still pitiful and entreating. 'Come,' he said, 'if there are any here whose poor human strength has failed-who are powerless even to strive for good, there is help for you yet!-there is a Rock for you to lean on-Jesus, the Saviour of sinners-your
                   Saviour then above others. Come! with all your sorrows-all your humiliations, naked and helpless, and poor and weak, and despised of men-come! we open the door of the fold to receive you-come and hide yourselves in the robe of the shepherd-come! we are standing, waiting for you-our souls are yearning to meet and welcome you.' A cry broke through the house! a fair child, with her hair streaming wildly round her small form, sprung over the benches. My pulse seemed suddenly to stop-it was my child,-my oldest, the image of her mother-my eye, dim as it was, had already caught a glimpse of her bright head through the crowd. She was sitting with her almost baby-brother in her arms, but she had now let him slide from her grasp-she had forgotten every thing but her father. She reached me-she flung her arms round my neck. 'Oh, father, go!-will you not go? dear, dear father! Oh, say you will! Go for Johnny's sake, and Henry's, and mine; and oh! for dead mother's, go! go!' 
               "My agony was too strong for me to bear. I sprung to my feet; my poor girl lay on my arm like a gasping bird,-I flung her from me-I rushed out of the house. It was a summer night, but it was dark and raining. I did not stop. I plunged forward as if I had some point in view, but had no thought whatever where my feet tended. There are sufferings that one eye alone sees. I continued hurrying through the night's gloom with a fierce unrest no man may know that has not greatly sinned. Two hours had probably thus passed when a soft, clear air came with a refreshing sense over my brow. Previously I had not at all heeded the change of the night, but I now looked up. The sky was again perfectly clear, and oh! how singularly beautiful! In my better years I had loved such a night. Often had I stood with Agnes watching the evening lights as they came out one by one-but the fair skies had long been too holy for my gaze. Now the storm in my heart had suddenly lulled into a strange quiet. 'Agnes,' said I, 'is in heaven;' and for the first time since her death, I looked up and gazed at the sky, and the stars, and the floating clouds. There are times,-haven't you, my friends, felt them?-when that radiance which is not of sun or moon, seems melting through the lower skies. So it appeared to me then; such seemed the silver glory which touched the edges of the soft white clouds. 'Agnes is in heaven,' repeated I; 'she is among the angels-she is praying for me.' I stood entirely still. The air was full of light. It seemed to me I heard the music of the stars as they went their round. 
               "My friends, I should doubtless task your credulity too far were I to disclose all the mysterious influences of that solemn hour. It is, perhaps, only to a soul dead as mine was to its own inner voice, that such revealments, as alone having power to break its torpor, are made. Gradually a new purpose, tremblingly at first, but settling into strength, rose in my heart. I had been beating round and round the same circuit, but I took now an untrodden path that led to the place where Agnes was sleeping. It was some distance, yet it was but a few minutes ere I reached it. Then I knelt by the grave. I lifted up my hands; the moon and stars seemed looking down as witnesses. I called upon the pure spirit of my wife to hear my pledge. 'By the tender love,' I said, 'thou borest me to the last-by the children that were thine image-by the hope I have, through Him who died for sinners, to meet thee where there is no sin, I swear never again to touch the cup that blasted thy precious life.' Strongly my uplifted voice sounded through the midnight stillness. It was a pledge in the awful presence of God and his hosts. 
               'By degrees the tension of my feelings gave way. I laid my face on the grave, and wept. The softness of the scene gave rise to vague but soothing visions of another life. Lilly had early planted a white rose-bush at her mother's grave. It was now in full bloom, and through the surrounding willows the moonlight fell on its snowy clusters with the softest beauty. I took in their fragrance as the night-wind passed over me. I heard the gush of a stream that was rippling near me over the rocks, and I thought of the flowers of Paradise and the sweet waters of life. I rose at last from the grave. I knew, as I kissed the grassy turf, that Agnes' dust only was there, and my heart was lifted higher, to the spheres from which I felt she had heard my vow. I went home to my wretched dwelling. Scarcely did it afford shelter to my children from chill or storm. They were lying, all there, on a miserable pallet, locked in slumber. I saw them, aided by the moonbeams falling through a broken window full on their faces. They had all of them their mother's beauty. Lilly's arm was over the youngest. There were yet traces of tears on her cheek; and as I stood and looked at them, a frequent sob yet broke from the little over-charged heart. How long it had been since I had thus looked upon their slumbers! I kissed them all, and tried to draw a ragged quilt under Lilly's poor head. Her little hymn-book, her mother's last gift, fell from under it. I replaced it carefully. 'Oh Agnes!' I cried, as the little bosom heaved with a fresh sob, 'come to her in her dreams, and give her comfort.' 
               "Then I went to the place where our poor supplies were kept, to see what my children had had to eat through the day. There seemed to have been nothing. My God! the recollection is bitter still. But I flung myself beside them at last, and slept. 
               "At early sunrise I stood at the door of a shop I had once owned. The present owner had occasionally given me employment, but as my habits had become more and more worthless, he had altogether rejected me. I stood before him with a desperate strength. 'Give me work,' said I, 'at least for to-day, and first of all give me breakfast for my children.' What there was in my face. I know not, but he looked at me a moment and spoke with kindness. A basket, crowded with comforts for them, was prepared. I was conscious of but that one thing as I strode hurriedly back to them. The poor things yet slept. I awakened Lilly, and pointed to the basket. 'Get up, dear, and give little brothers some breakfast;-and Lilly, have them and yourself ready to-night to go with me to meeting!' 
               "I worked hard through the day, losing not a moment, and scarcely speaking to any one. My thoughts were not entirely clear, but I had a feeling of thankfulness-a sense, as it were, of being freed from a dark bondage, a sense and feeling that I wanted to give myself up to. When I went home at night, Lilly met me with a look of doubtful earnestness; but I saw that she had washed her brothers' clothes-(she was but ten years old)-and had again dressed them as decently as the poor garb admitted. I had carried them home supper, and I sat and watched them as they ate. Then I took them by the hand and went to meeting. The house which I had not entered consciously for years seemed to me like the gate of heaven. I sat down with my children. My own garb was distinctive enough of my habits and condition, and one or two, who on entering made a movement to sit by me, passed on, upon observing me, to another seat. It did not hurt me. I was buoyed beyond earthly humiliations. Again the same tremulous but earnest voice as on the preceding evening was on my ear. Again the same aged form, already on the verge of another and brighter life, stood before me as one looking back upon those he was leaving with a father's anxiously entreating and sorrowing love Once more I heard the invitation, 'Come to the fold of Jesus.' I rose, and walked forward with my sleeping boy in my arms. Without looking at her, I knew that Lilly had come with her other brother and knelt softly beside me. 'I come,' I said, 'as you have bidden me. I know nothing about religion, but I am poor and needy and abject, and have been long in bonds from which you say the Saviour can set me free. I know there is an angel in heaven that prays for me, but I would find Him you call the Saviour of sinners.' As I spoke, Lilly lay sobbing at my feet. The little stricken form might well win pity for her father. There were other sobs through the house, that told of kind and Christian sympathy from many a heart. From that hour I was indeed set free. I found the Rock on which I have not in my weakness leaned in vain. My children have known no more want, and my boys are growing up under other influences than those that have led so many thousands to the gates of death. *  *  *  *  *  *  *  * 
               "How happy was Lilly, when she first dressed her little brothers in their new suits, while I stood waiting to lead them with herself to the Sabbath School. Since that time I have been an humble instructor there, and Lilly, my faithful Lilly, is already among the most beloved of the young teachers in that nursery of the Most High. I listen to her voice as every Sabbath she sings in the Church choir, and sometimes fancy that I hear her mother's amid those that surround the throne." 
             
             
                
               THE BROTHERS. 
                
                  
                      
                        Why wrap yourself in these icy folds, 
                        Shutting out the warmth that all life holds? 
                        Away! away with the iron pride! 
                        'Tis a chain that binds earth's brightest tide- 
                        Chilling the sense of the spirit's ear 
                        To the music-tones thou else might'st hear. 
                     
                   
                
               "CAN you tell me any thing of George and William Branham," said our friend Collingwood, breaking in one day, at one of Delancey's visits, upon an earnest chat he was holding with Henry Ives; "and who, by-the-by, is the young Henry Branham you seem to be making such high mention of?" 
               "Your queries require but one answer: but that will make a real story. I am going to tell it," said Ives, drawing to his knee a bright-eyed little girl, the only one of the household, and spoiled by common consent; "Carry has just asked me to tell her a story.-You hardly remember any thing about them, I suppose to promise one, but there was material there, notwithstanding. You remember their great attachment to each other-a feeling so marked that one could but observe it; and continuing for years unchanged, giving, as I have often thought, like the windings of a stream through a tangled dell, a tissue of brightness and beauty to their humble and toilsome lives. You never saw either alone. They were perfectly inseparable. At play, at work, at the table, or stretched in slumber, there they were, side by side; in sleep, more often locked in each other's embrace, as if their existence was but one; and thus it had been from their earliest childhood. Yet never were two less alike. George was a manly, straightforward, sober-minded boy; not sad, or moody, or reserved, but without any playfulness. This might have grown out of early hardship. He seemed, indeed, to me, as one whose nature had been settled into premature soberness by outward circumstance. He enjoyed the sunnier spirit of William, who, you know, was full of glee to overflowing. The indigent circumstances of their father necessarily bound down the two boys to heavy tasks. But George always took the brunt and exposure of their daily toil, seeming to regard his brother, but little more than a year younger than himself (and with a frame that, though slighter, was full of life and health), as an object of especial indulgence. His own tasks were hurried through with his utmost exertion of strength, that he might take part in his brother's; and July suns and the bitter, biting north were neither of them cared for, if by any means he could shelter William's more delicate brow from them; seeming all the while to derive from the gladsome laugh and perpetual jest of the merry idler an ample equivalent. 
               "And so they grew up. Not a single cloud at their early manhood had come between their hearts, or interrupted the rich flow of their affection. It was natural perhaps that with all this indulgence William should acquire something of selfish habit; that he should learn to slip his own neck from the yoke of severer servitude, however imposed on another. But while his mercurial activity exempted him from all charge of sluggishness, so did many a generous and endearing trait redeem him from the heavier one of selfishness. Thus even as time rolled on, and other ties were at last wound round the hearts of both, when the names of husband and father had asserted yet higher claims upon their affections, their bond of fraternal regard remained for some time unweakened. Some twelve years after, however, I saw-for the intimacy of our boyhood had been preserved-that, though the brothers still met in common kindness, and almost daily, for their homes were in the same neighborhood, a change had come over their intercourse and feelings. Upon reaching the paths of manhood hood, destiny seemed to have marked them for different spheres. Prudent and industrious, indefatigably so, as George was at all times, the acquisition of wealth did not enter into his dreams. He knew no medium of gain but toil, and plodded on in the same obscure and laborious path in which he had been reared. William adventured at once upon a wider career, and other traits than those I have mentioned widened the line of distinction between him and his brother. With an instinctive tact of reaching his point by the easiest means, William had a bias of calculating thrift, a quick observance of profit and loss, and an intuitive perception of the methods of business, occasionally developing themselves even in his boyhood. He early found himself growing wealthy, and with little more of effort than watching the tides that led to fortune.
                
               'All this gave rise to feelings of sincere gratulation in the heart of George, but his own path was painfully different. Year after year he had struggled on, with an unbent but at last somewhat worn spirit, to obtain a mere support for a fast increasing family. A train of ills seemed to mock his efforts, and the hard lot of penury to be sealed on him; a life, in the words of some late poet, 
                     "'To toil and pant with up want's rugged steep.'
                   For a long time, however, speaking of William his own rich smile, now a rare one, would come back to him. 'Oh,' he would say good-humoredly, 'I always knew from William's merry mouth he was born with the silver spoon in it; but glad I am,' he would add yet more feelingly, 'that good luck has kept his boyish nature from getting clouded. The tones of my brother's voice do me good yet.' 
               "But this, under the progress of circumstance, could hardly last. George was proud. You may perhaps remember what a high spirit of independence he had when a boy. Didn't you once notice how some little kindness of my mother's, though he seemed grateful, flushed his dark face painfully? This of course grew with his growth. Carried to such excess, I think it was a fault; though in George's high-toned mind it seemed a kind of principle. 'Meekness,' I have heard him say, 'has degenerated into meanness with a man that is content to draw his livelihood from another.' But feelings like this made pecuniary aid, even from the brother he so loved, a matter of pain. When, as time wore on, and the poor fellow seemed fated to drain the cup of poverty and suffering to its very dregs, assistance was kindly and freely proffered by William, the high rebellion of his spirit sent a painful flush through the dark embrowning of toil up to his very temples; a flood of bitterness came over him, blent for the first time with the sense of fraternal kindness. Could he have rejected it, the pleasure of grateful feeling would have doubtless predominated; but this might not be. There were feeble and beloved ones whose wants called on him loudly for supply; and with all this, he was not one to remain proudly girded up to endurance. His family were afflicted with frequent illness-a more common thing, I have observed, among the poor than the wealthy-exposure and overstrained exertion telling on them hardly; and this gave to destitution a clutch on George's very heart. William's aid was received; and again and again such assistance was his only resource, sending him an applicant to William with that same flushed brow, that same look (so foreign to his wonted quietude) of painful disturbance. 
               "All this in such a nature could not but lead to revolt, and George was at last no longer the same. It mattered not that from time to time he managed by great exertion to return the pecuniary aid thus received: there was many a kindness bestowed that could not be returned in dollars and cents. These he strove to receive with thankfulness, but they were often bitter to him. The smile with which he sometimes watched his children, as, all unconsciously, they rejoiced, in the luxuries that came from his brother's table or the elegancies from their cousin's wardrobe, had in it any thing but gladness. The weight of obligations he might not requite. The jealous watchfulness of the long cherished sentiment of independence had woven through and through his heart a web of morbid nerves, thrilling with intense pain to many a touch that had once been pleasant. William's name was no longer a talisman to dispel gloom; the cheery tones of his voice no longer cheered; the unfortunate and borne-down George came to think that his brother looked on him and his family as poor dependents. His manly nature had not yielded to this without a conflict. For a long time his better feelings struggled against the growing alienation; but to a jaundiced eye, slight circumstances take a strong coloring. 
               "So different was William's nature and position, that he did not understand his brother's feelings, and his own complexional hilarity often seemed like indifference to George's troubles. Comparatively wealthy as he was, and supporting a style of no small elegance, he was, like most of those whom a spirit of enterprise urges continually on to more extended plans, often straitened for money. His liberal nature brought around him many an encroacher on his bounty and applicant for aid; and this, from the frank-hearted and jesting William, called out many a random remark that jarred miserably on some of George's quick nerves. More than once, after a hard combat with himself to win to his heart courage enough to ask the loan of a small sum of money, had some such remark arrested George's purpose. On one of these occasions he had entered William's richly furnished house with something more than his usual confidence. He had said to himself, as he yet paused for a moment on the marble steps: 'I wrong his kindness;' but almost William's first word (called out by a day of unusual annoyance in that line) was a jest upon the 'kingly privilege' of bestowing favors. 'Quite a levee,' he said, 'I have had of poor fellows, with a category of ills as long as their faces.' George went home without naming his errand. It was the last call he made for such a purpose. The next day his only cow was sold to pay his doctor's bill. 
               "What! another son?' said William, as one day after this he called at his brother's humble dwelling to congratulate him upon another accession to his already numerous family; 'Why, George, you ought to have a pension with all these boys-a fine fellow, though, it is-the little sturdy fist looks as if it might handle a hoe already.' George leaned over the young sleeper to hide his emotions. 'Poor babe,' thought he; 'yes, it will no doubt handle the hoe, and grow up, as its brothers are doing, in ignorance of all else; but I trust it won't be a pensioner on its uncle's bounty.' 
               "Had he looked upon William's countenance-had he observed its animated and almost articulate expression of pleased interest as he looked at the babe, or the sudden shade of fraternal tenderness and solicitude that passed over it as he approached the couch of the pale mother, George would have felt nothing wrong in a remark in itself so insignificant. But his eye,-do you remember how fine it was, and how fondly it used to rest on William?-it was full of expression yet, but not as of yore; the troubled glance was averted from his brother's. 
               "The waters of bitterness, so long gathering, flowed on; intercourse between the families became almost suspended. So far from asking further assistance, George had long declined every proffer of it. Even the little kindnesses, so calculated to sweeten a neighborhood intercourse of equality, were always, if possible, evaded. William had long continued to call at his brother's house when he had a spare half hour, but even these brief calls became painful to both, from the consciousness of change in their tone of meeting. They of course grew less and less frequent. In George's family, sorrows of a deeper nature were at last added to the chastenings of adversity. Their first-born, a noble boy, in whom their hearts were bound up with an idolatrous excess of tenderness, was taken from them by a sudden stroke. He had sickened from home (having been sent in some employ to one of the more distant of the neighboring cities), with an epidemic that at the same time rapidly prostrated the whole family. 
               "William's attentions at this season of distress were indeed needful, and truly did he fulfil every brotherly claim. Word had come of the dying state of his nephew, and he went himself to attend to the last mournful duties. The stroke was some time delayed; but he remained till his cares were no more needed, still sending back daily inquiries of the state of the stricken family, and making sure they were carefully attended. They all recovered, though slowly. George himself, with a frame that had been long overwrought, lay prostrate for weeks after the crisis of disease was past. It was long ere he asked of his boy-his brother's disturbed manner was the only reply; and from that time there was no mention of the dead between them. William hoped his long illness had deadened his sense of the loss, and every possible effort was made to minister comfort to him and his family; but with George's returning strength his morbid fancies had all returned, and again he evidently struggled to shake off this ministering kindness. His grief for the loss of his boy was in truth a passion, feeding on him, despite the still absorbing claims of his surviving family, with a terrible strength. But to his brother, of all others, this sorrow was suppressed. 'Why,' he would say to the mourning mother, who still spoke of her child to William, 'Why, Eleanor, do you speak of sorrow to one who has not known it?' George's own heart should have taught him better justice to William, for he loved his brother's children. Through all the years of coldness and estrangement, they had still been a bond of intercourse. 
               "There is something in children binding no one, in their own innocent freedom, down to conventional courtesies, that seems particularly suited to morbid temperaments. William's children, bearing many a look and tone of the father's childhood, awakened in George's heart a train of softening recollections; and he could love the little inheritors of his brother's boyish smiles and graces with a tenderness embittered by no unworthy sentiment. When among his own children, they shared his caresses equally; and often, when he had turned from his brother with scarcely the interchange of a word, he would stoop with irrepressible fondness to kiss the babe that he led. Their first-born were of the same age-bore the same baptismal name; and, with considerable resemblance in person, had some traits of boyish character in common. They were fond of being together, and the intercourse was not indeed broken when William's Henry was at last sent away to school. Warm-hearted and affectionate, though a sad idler, he had continued to spend a large portion of every vacation at his humbler relative's. After the blow that had so darkened the household, all this was changed. The surviving Henry was sent to college; George himself removed soon after to a distant neighborhood, and the cousins met their brother's playmate no more for years. The last link of kindly feeling between the families seemed fated to be broken. The older cousins were already passing the season of childhood, and a line of demarcation was soon to be drawn between them, much wider than the space that separated them. Republicans as we are, we too have our castes. It needed no title of nobility to distinguish the wealthy and fashionable Branhams from their poor and laboring relatives. 
               "George's position was little changed. The mere laborer in our old States has little chance to escape from penury. In the new world on the other side of the mountains, which has opened in your absence, Sidley, prodigal as it is in all that yields guerdon to the touch of industry, simple toil may redeem from the wilderness a home of beauty and abundance. Here it is often insufficient to meet life's daily claims. George Branham toiled on without hope. His numerous family were growing up around him with little other instruction than was afforded by the brief lessons of weary hours following the day of toil; and the father felt this with all the force of a naturally vigorous mind, whose estimate of the value of education had been drawn from its want. Thus had he himself been reared-bound down to a life-path whose rugged servitude had not shielded him from want. 
               "While such were the broodings of poor George, the brother was basking in other sunshine than that of wealth. It was early said that Henry Branham was distinguishing himself in college; a matter of such extreme delight to William that he made no attempt to disguise it. He had not forgotten George. Many tokens of still affectionate remembrance were from time to time received by the family; and though he could not make up his mind to meet himself his brother's cold, troubled eye, he often sent his children to see them. Whether these visits brought more of pleasure than pain, there might have been some question. The different associations of their cousins, their educational advantages, were things the humbler Branhams could but feel; but there is in young hearts a buoyancy that flings off the sense of invidious distinction. The cousins loved each other, and met warmly. At one of these visits, some four years after the removal of the family, they learned with great pleasure that Henry (of whose growing fame the sisters had many a marvel to tell) intended making them a visit at the approaching vacation. This anticipation was soon realized-the visit was paid; and it so chanced that, passing at the time through the neighborhood, and stopping, as was my habit whenever possible, to spend a few hours with George and his family, I had part in the pleasure it brought. No one could look at Henry Branham without interest, but my own feelings were drawn to him by especial cords. He was much changed since I had last seen him; hardly perhaps as handsome, but with a face more intellectual-fuller, as might have been expected, of thought and feeling. The resemblance he had borne his cousin was greatly strengthened. It had been only of feature, now it was that of expression; the laughing brightness was gone, but the smile was yet richer. The lineaments were those of both the brothers as I remembered them in years gone by-the large, dark, serious eye of the one, and the slight frame and brilliant smile of the other. 
               "Nothing could have had more of grace or interest in it than his manner. To his aunt, a worn yet gentle woman, it was full of tenderness; to his cousins, playful and affectionate; and to his uncle,-with a strange tact for one so young, it seemed especially calculated to win him from all painful thought. A shade of abstraction, from the remembrance, perhaps, of the one so deeply mourned, occasionally crossed his countenance, but it soon gave place to the interests of the present. Every thing that related to his cousins caught his ear; not a word or look escaped him, and any chance development of a favorable trait of mind or character,-or any attainment that he had not looked for among them, was marked with a start of pleasure. His expressions sions of interest could not be mistaken, they were so warm, so earnest, so simple, so heartfelt. 'How well Charles reads!' he said to his aunt, as he turned from her now oldest boy, whom he had drawn into the trial; 'what a fine voice he has-ciphers too, I see,' he continued, taking up his slate; 'and he tells me he has learned it mostly of himself. Bravo, dear Charley! you'll fit yourself by-and-by for business-that is, with a little help, and that will come-I'm sure it will.' The mother smiled, but sighed heavily; the sisters looked at their young brother with a hopeful and congratulatory glance. Henry caught its pleasant expression. 'Don't you think, aunt, that Jane and Mary are both handsomer than-than my sisters? Ah, that sad smile again. I know what it means-you think, dear aunt, of their different advantages; you are drawing your own miserable comparisons; but look, dear mother-did you not use to sometimes call me your son?-look!' he continued, turning his cousins playfully towards her; 'have their cousins a complexion like this?' touching the glowing cheek of the one,-'or a brow like this?' he added, putting fondly back the dark hair from the clear but thoughtful forehead of the other. 'But you think, I suppose, I've been learning fine speeches. You don't know they are all my sisters, and that I'm bound to love them all alike. Come, Mary and Jane! I haven't heard you sing yet, and I've soon to leave. Sing me once more the little songs you used to sing me.' The girls obeyed, and again their cousin's face beamed with gratification. Their voices were uncommonly sweet, and Henry noticed that the accuracy of the simple air yet evidenced an ear for music. 'And now,' he said softly, looking at his aunt as if he would spare her the allusion, 'I'll sing you in return the little ballad your poor brother was so fond of.' He sang, and with a feeling that gave the words a hold on my memory. I can still repeat them, for you have perhaps heard them. 
                      
                        "'Oh why do you weep, young stranger boy? 
                        I have gold to give, if 'twill give you joy. 
                        Come, then, with me to yon stately dome; 
                        In the halls of wealth you shall share my home;- 
                         
                        Your garb shall be changed to a fine array, 
                        And your feet tread only where all is gay.' 
                     
                      
                        'Oh! I weep not for gold, nor for fine array, 
                        But my own loved home that is far away; 
                        I weep for those round my father's hearth, 
                        With their looks of love, and their eyes of mirth, 
                        And the voices of welcome I met half way, 
                        As I came from the toils of the busy day. 
                     
                      
                        The challenge to play by the sunset light, 
                        Or the starry glow of the summer night; 
                        The couch, by the hand of my mother spread, 
                        And my father's blessing upon my head; 
                        'Tis for these I weep: has the earth a strain 
                        To stir my heart as did these, again? 
                     
                      
                        Still sadly and lone should I tread the halls 
                        Where the glare of wealth and revelry falls; 
                        'Mid the festive scene, with all splendors fraught, 
                        There still would rise on my yearning thought, 
                        The meal, by my sister's care prepared, 
                        In the harvest-field with my brothers shared. 
                     
                      
                        And the babbling fountain, so cool and sweet, 
                        Where we came to drink in the summer's heat,- 
                        I should hear its murmurs though at the board 
                        Where the purple wine-cup was gaily poured. 
                        I hear them oft in my dreaming sleep, 
                        But I may not taste them. Oh! let me weep!' 
                     
                  
                
               "Henry's voice grew lower and lower, and the sobs of the mother and sisters were more distinctly heard than the last words of the song. Too deeply had it recalled the memory of him from whom it had been learned, and whose own sweet tones, now for ever hushed, might never be forgotten. Henry rose with his eyes beaming through tears. He did not speak, but he went to his aunt, and took her still silently in his arms. It was one of those moments in which, how often soever true hearts may be doubted and kind feelings misunderstood, sympathy will make itself an intelligence to be felt and acknowledged. 
                
               "On the hearts of his cousins, Henry's visit left nothing but pleasure. In that of the uncle, it had stirred mingled emotions. The feelings his nephew had called out, as an affectionate and lively boy, could but now be deepened. He thought of his gracious ways, and the bright career that seemed opening before him, and then his mind reverted to his own. 'I do not envy my brother,' he would say to himself, 'the comfort of such a son. May he never know the bitterness of losing him! My own poor children are all I could ask in affection and duty, but for them-for them, debarred for ever from a path like his, I can but repine-vain, perhaps wrong, as it is.' George's heart, however, was still true, and though these broodings pressed on him, he did not indulge them willingly; and as, through the lapse of the next two or three years, notice of Henry's collegiate honors continued to reach him, he strove to feel only pleasure. William had recently once or twice written to him-his first letters. A melancholy smile crossed George's face as he read them. 'Ah, my brother,' he said, 'his heart at least warms in the praises of his boy.' But a note at last came with an unlooked-for bearing. It was an invitation from William, for himself and family to attend a little fte got up to celebrate the birth-day of his son, who was on that day to return home from the completion of his collegiate course. George read the note to his family, and looked at his children for its effect. As might have been anticipated, the young hearts were elate with joy. It was impossible for the father to dampen it by a single objection; and, with a sigh that he could not suppress, he gave himself up to the arrangement. His brother's carriage was to be sent for them the next day, and with it (as the time, William said, was too short for any thing like preparation), some few articles for the children-children being always fanciful in such things. These proved to be a light but tasteful suit for each of the boys, all of whom had been especially named in the note, with fashionable dresses for the girls, in which (evidencing a tact of choice hardly to have been looked for in Uncle William) simplicity was so combined with taste and beauty in the fabric, that even the scruples of the father as to their fittingness were easily overruled. 
                
               "I have always been in high luck in chance meetings with my friends, but it was not chance that brought me to meet George and his family on their arrival at William's. I too had been bidden to the fte, by a note reaching me at such a distance that it was not easy to meet the time; but there was something in William's very pressing and rather mystified note that stirred me to effort. A most glad meeting it was. To see the brothers together after so long an estrangement, might well be a heart gratification. But the joy of our host was in itself contagious. I have never seen a man more perfectly happy. His manner had the restless gleefulness of a boy; but his eye, bright and laughing, yet often tearful, betokened some deeper happiness. Henry Branham, though looked for momently, had not yet arrived; the other guests were not expected till a later hour, and the brothers and myself, with the gay young spirits (not a little excited) of both families, were gathered into one free, social circle. William, however, was the chief talker, and his son soon became the chief theme. 'Ah! George, you have heard of Henry's talents, but you don't know his virtues; his faithfulness, his truth, his affection, his gratitude; and then his industry-unprecedented, they say, in college annals. At his last three or four vacations he would not even come home-remaining like a prisoner in his room, as he said to gain time for future idleness. But it was in this way he got ready for so early an examination in his profession. He is now through with it; and from a note from one of the professors, I guess they'd no weights to spare in weighing him. Such intimate knowledge of the law, he says, has been rarely witnessed in so young a student. You may judge of the clat of the examination by the fact that he is already offered a partnership in one of the first legal firms within my knowledge; and upon such terms, that within the year his share in the practice will be what, at his age, George, we should have thought a fortune. And then, as I have said already, he is such a noble fellow-I tell you what, George, children are a real glory!' 
               "What could we do but smile at William's earnestness?-though I thought his paternal exultation a little ill-timed. He laughed at it himself, and then grew a little serious. 'I've often thought, George, you ought to have given me one of your boys-you have so many.' 'By-the-by,' said William, rising and walking the floor with a little restlessness in his manner, 'that puts me in mind of a circumstance I got hold of lately,-a sort of book-story, to be sure, but nevertheless I believe absolutely true, of some one that fairly stole a child from his brother, and educated him as his own, though they both lived at the same time in the same neighborhood.' An exclamation of wonder was the general response. 'How could that be possible,' exclaimed a half-dozen voices with great earnestness. 
               "'Well, I'll tell you how it was,' continued William, still pacing the floor with a step slightly hurried. 'The father of the child, as good a fellow as ever lived, though he was confoundedly proud, was sadly under the weather. He had a large family to provide for, and his brother, who owed him whole years of kindness, bestowed in their young days, would have fain assisted him. But it would have been just as easy to offer aid to the Grand Sultan. At last, however, an epidemic passed through the neighborhood, and the whole family was smitten down with it. The oldest boy, a fine lad growing up to complete servitude, had been employed in some capacity that took him two or three days' journey from home, and was taken ill on the road. Rumor, you know, deals mostly in wholesale; and news came that the poor boy was dead or dying. The parents were both lying dangerously ill, and his uncle, who had still been spared amid the general calamity, set off alone to attend to the interment. He found his nephew, however, still living, and a thought struck him,-but Eleanor is fainting, George! give her this water,-ah, she revives now:-Why, my dear sister, what is the matter? My story, perhaps, recalls the memory of your own child, whose last sickness was in this same way: but pray hear me. I grieve that the thing has hurt you so; but I must finish-there's nothing more in it to stir up your sorrows;-and George, don't look so! put your heart down, and hear me out.' 
               "No wonder George stood transfixed with that look of troubled and speechless eagerness. I myself rose in an excitement I could scarcely control. Gleams of the truth, though all vague and uncertain, had broken upon me, and I looked at George, and still more at the pale and trembling wife, with anxious apprehensiveness. 
               "'Where was I?' resumed William; 'ah! where the uncle first thought of taking the boy into his own keeping. It was a little cruel, perhaps,'-'Cruel as the grave itself,' said George, in a sepulchral voice. 'Well, it was, but what else could the brother do? It was in fact his only chance for doing any thing. The blow, you know, had already been given; they thought their boy dead, and their own low state at the time might make it some easier. The lad's disease had passed the crisis when the uncle reached him, and he soon ventured to tell him that his father had suddenly concluded to put him entirely under his care, and that he was to be sent off to school as soon as he was able. It wasn't such an easy matter to manage, after all. The poor fellow was bound not to leave his father, whose hardships he thought he ought to share; and his scruples were only overcome by persuading him it was his father's command. And then he was told that he wasn't to return to his parents now-or even at all, perhaps, for some years, lest his or their weakness should interfere with their purpose. It was a hard thing all round, but it was all arranged at last. The uncle took measures for his being carefully attended till he should be perfectly restored, when he meant to place him immediately with his own boy at school; and then he went back to the poor stricken parents to tell them--But I can't get on with this!' said William, breaking suddenly off, and taking both his brother's hands. 'George! dear George! don't think I'm trifling with you; it is your son, your own Henry, I'm telling you of; but look! poor Eleanor has fairly fainted! take care of her, George-brace yourself up, and set her an example of fortitude. The boys have come! I hear the carriage and must go to meet them.' 
               "Never was any thing more opportune than that arrival. It produced something like revulsion in the feelings that had been wrought to such overstrained tension. The carriage dashed up, and two young men sprung from it, in whom it was easy to recognize the two Henrys of former years. How full of life, of health, of joy, of all rich and happy feeling, they were! William's son, as in their boyhood, was the handsomer of the two, with the polish and air of high-bred life superinduced upon the constitutional gayety and buoyant ease that had distinguished the father. The other was little changed from the time we had met him at his father's house in the character of his cousin. He had the same thoughtful face, the same quiet air, and high expression of character made radiant with the joy of the moment. They were met and embraced by William and his family, and then led to the little group that, pale and motionless, had remained drawn closely together in speechless, almost pulseless, expectation. 
               "'My dear brother and sister,' said William, with a voice and manner that had recovered all their cheeriness, 'let me present to you Henry Branham, your nephew, whom you have not seen for some seven years, but whom you used to love; not a bad fellow, on the whole, though averse, as you remember his father was, to climbing hard steps;-and now also Henry Branham, your own son, restored to you in the fulness of life; virtuous, gifted, accomplished, and already crowned with fame; for it is your Henry, and not mine, that has won its laurels. In him you have the promise of speedy competence, and of extending to your other children-' 
               "But William was no longer heard. Henry Branham, after years of vain yearnings for the embraces of his family in his own character, had knelt at last for the paternal blessing; but the father, laying his still half-fainting wife in the arms of their boy, gave him only a silent though passionate embrace; and then, flinging his arms around his brother's neck in the overwhelming return of fraternal confidence, sweeping for ever from his soul the festerings of years, the man of stern and uncompromising pride, to whom tears were almost unknown, lifted up his voice and wept aloud." 
             
             
                
               ESTRANGEMENT. 
               AMONG the later guests at the Grove, to whom allusion has been made, there was one who entered into the peculiar tone of our small social circle with especial readiness-a spirit evidently kindred with our favorite friends, and, like them, travelling through life with a feeling of kindly fellowship that made him a party concerned in many of its wayside adventures. He had not been an acquaintance of boyhood, being, at the time of our early celebration, but a chance visitant at the spot; but he knew many that were. The mere mention of Moreton Dewer's name, and that of Wayland Russell, inveigled him at once into a detail so warm and earnest, that I think I can give it in his very words, though his intimate knowledge of them was of a date some years subsequent to their first meeting. 
               "When we met the second time," said he, "it was in a law office in Philadelphia, having then reached the threshold of manhood. Moreton was a student there, and Wayland, like myself, writing for bread. Moreton was high in favor with our principal, and exercised a sort of general surveillance over the affairs of the office; having those practical qualifications, facility in the despatch of business, and great accuracy in its details, that give ascendancy in almost any position. His air and manner were imposing-the bearing, in fact, of one who felt himself no common clay; and I gave in at once, as a matter of course, to the general deference. Of Wayland Russell I took for some time but little note. My attention was first drawn to him by a torrent of rebuke poured out on him by Moreton Dewer for some inadvertence in copying. A brief reply, rather explanatory than deprecatory catory, was given, but in the very gentlest of tones. I glanced at the young man's face; it was quiet as the answer. Was it the control of feeling, or the want of it? I was at a loss to determine. But I soon found he was accustomed to such outbreaks, and never noticed them; whether from patience, or servility, or indifference, it was difficult to say. Servility! There was, indeed, something about him to disclaim that, but he was certainly the most patient of men. 
               "I grew very shortly to dislike Moreton Dewer. His great brilliancy of intellect, and his character for integrity and high honor, invested him with a hold upon one's interest; but his imperious nature, and a temper wholly without control, were terrible drawbacks upon his social attraction. There could not be, in the whole range of mortals, two less alike than were he and Wayland Russell; yet these young men were friends! With the enlightenment the present day is affording us, I should have imputed it to mesmerism; as it was, I could only find a solution of the marvel in some moral affinity analogous to chemical ones. As to the attraction between them, there could be no doubt. At the close of business hours they were at once together. Reading, lounging, or walking, the interest of the hour seemed always shared between them. Wayland was more frequently the sufferer under his violent outbreaks of temper than any other-not a singular case, perhaps, in the history of friends; but it seemed to give very little interruption to their social enjoyment. When Moreton chose to storm-and storm he did at times most fearfully-when the gust of passion and invective had gone by, you looked vainly for any trace of its effect in Wayland's look or manner. 
               "I had begun to feel an interest in my quiet associate. How often did I furtively watch that face, and by how many terms did I try to solve its quietude-coldness of heart-complexional imperturbability; that peculiar organization that enables some persons to enjoy the stormy moods of their best friends. I found myself at fault in them all. Wayland's grey eye, calm as it was, held in its depths an obvious reserve of feeling; a passage from some favorite author would sometimes light up every feature. And that habitual calmness! I grew at last to think there was a shade of sadness in it. It might have been only languor-the effect of more work than strength, for Wayland was constitutionally delicate; but it was only perceptible at times following Moreton's most terrible outbreaks, and always passed off upon the first approach on his part of renewed sociality. It was impossible not to feel a growing interest in the young man. Apart from the romance with which all high-toned sentiment in this mercenary world is necessarily invested, there was a geniality in his character that could but win regard from his daily associates. If his friendship was reserved for Moreton Dewer, the amenities of a gentle and unselfish spirit were shed on us all. I grew disturbed and angry myself at the aggressions of which he was so often the subject. 
               "'How do you bear it?' I exclaimed one day, as we chanced to be left alone after one of these outbreaks. 'I would brook no man's arrogance and ill-temper as you do his.' 
               "Wayland did not raise his eyes from the paper he was copying, but answered me, with even more than his usual quietude, 'Why, Moreton is a little over-earnest with one at times; but a friend's infirmities, you know--' 
               "'Infirmities! Nonsense! You smile, I suppose, at the mustiness of the term. You had better laugh at its inappropriateness. 'Tis well you find some palliative term made to your hand-the matter itself would never suggest one. Such overearnestness, as you are pleased to call it, is downright outrage.' 
               "'Well, it does bear a little hard on one at times; but then there is so much to cancel it-at least, to those who know him best, as I do.' 
               "'Humph! I'm glad you can take it in so quiet and sweet a mood. But I've no notion of subjecting myself to the eruptions of Vesuvius because there happens to be a little verdure on its sides.' 
               "Wayland broke into new files of papers. I was silenced, but wondered on. After the closing of the office, some half hour afterwards, the young men were adjourned to their usual retreat, discussing the topics of the day with much animation; Wayland's low but rich laugh coming on my ear ever and anon in attestation of perfect harmony. Intellectually, there was much about them to lessen the strangeness of their intimacy. Wayland had a mind as richly stored as Moreton's-perhaps of a higher order; but its light burned inwardly. Moreton's, in his better moods, flashed out in frequent and dazzling coruscations-the gentle spirit of the other loved its brilliance; and with all Moreton's pride, he was no doubt sensible to the gratification of having an appreciative listener. Gradually, too, I learned other circumstances, making the marvel of their friendship less. They were graduates of the same college; had been, as you already know, playmates in boyhood; something of similarity in taste and attainment leading, it would seem, even then to a schoolboy intimacy. This, ripened by years of after association, was still deepened by peculiarities of position as well as character. Wayland was poor, the son of a widow; and, though he had made his way through a collegiate course by much strong endeavor, had a delicacy of nature that shrunk from the attendant strifes and requisitions of ambitious life. Moreton had wealth, worldly purpose, and early influence; and was able, by a word, to secure to him the patronage that modest worth often fails to win. Wayland was not one to whom he could well offer pecuniary aid, but it was in his power to secure him that better help, profitable employment, which enabled him to get on without it. In a long illness, induced probably by too severe application to study, Moreton had manifested great personal kindness, with the most active and untiring exertions for his comfort and restoration. 
               "After all, the bond of so many years' confirmation was dissolved, as it were, by a breath. Sooner or later, such natures as Moreton's reach a culminating point. The claims of the opposing candidates for some executive appointment (which had at first stirred but little interest in our office), became, from some collateral partisanship, a matter of warm feeling. As Wayland, after a day of his usually silent and absorbed labor, was about closing it, I heard Moreton say to him, 'No office-work for you to-morrow. You are to get names for H--'s recommendation, and must be astir betimes.' 
               "'I?' said Wayland, with evident surprise, 'I don't understand your arrangement, Moreton; you know my little interest is promised elsewhere. Did I not mention this to you?' 
               "The veins of Moreton's capacious forehead began to swell, but he managed at first to speak calmly. 'I heard something of it, perhaps-some days ago; but it was then a matter I thought of little consequence. Since then you are aware that H--'s claims have assumed a much weightier aspect.' 
               "'Not to me, surely, after having pledged myself to his opponent. I have a recommendation for him in my pocket, and have engaged to see, this very evening, what names I can get for it.' 
               "'And you mean to persist in this?' 
               "'Assuredly! You would not ask me to forfeit a promise?' 
               "The vials were loosened. The anger of some men is perfect madness. I myself absolutely quailed before the stormy invective of the enraged young partisan. For the first time, Wayland was palpably and deeply pained. It was perhaps the first time he could not yield to his friend's dictation. A summons to supper came to me most welcomely; but Moreton added, as we passed to the supper-room, 'You will think of this a little, before you act; and remember,' he said, with a low but most bitter emphasis, 'unless you think proper to retract, that our paths from this time diverge.' 
               "Wayland swallowed only a little tea, and went directly to his chamber. I heard him pacing the floor for an hour. I was uneasy lest Moreton's long ascendancy should still prevail, but I knew not how strong in the right such a nature might be. Apart from his promise, the interest Wayland had felt had been elicited by the greater needs and higher moral worth of the person favored. I heard him at last go out. It was late when he returned, and I knew his promise had been faithfully fulfilled; but I heard him again walking the floor till midnight. The young men met next morning on the steps of the office. A few brief sentences were interchanged. 
               "'You went out last night,' said Moreton, with a harsh directness; 'was it to get names for A--'s recommendation?' 
               "'It was,' replied Wayland quietly. 'When, Moreton, did you know me derelict in what I thought a duty?' 
               "'It is well, sir! Our course after this, you will recollect, points in different directions. When your present engagement in the office expires, you will not look to me for any interference in its renewal.' 
               "Wayland bent his head in silence: there was not a heart there that was not pained for him. He made arrangements for leaving the office immediately. He remained in the place but a day or two, and, on the morning he left, called with his valise on his arm to take leave. He spoke to his young fellow-clerks with his usual kindness and gentleness, but his face was pale, and there was a sadness in his eye at variance with the smile he wore. Moreton was seated at his desk in a recess of the office, and did not look up. Wayland went up to him in his usual quiet way, and stood beside him. There was a sad repose in his manner that gave it singular dignity. His voice, though low, was always deep: it had now the impressiveness of strong feeling. I had stepped to a press near them, in search of a missing document; and low as were the tones, their distinctness brought them to my ear. 
               "'I could not leave,' he said, 'without one farewell word-not from you, Moreton-I do not expect it; but to you. I owe it to the past to say that this severance has not been one of light trial. But let that pass-it is well for me at this time to feel there can be nothing in reserve for me bitterer than I have passed. I would say'-- 
               "Moreton interrupted him. 'I have no leisure for sentimental twaddle.' 
               "'Be patient, Moreton. I expected this-it does not hurt me; no reproach can now give me additional pain. But neither past nor present can take from me the benefits received through long years of kindness. These I still take with me. That I have had means to smooth a mother's passage to the grave-that I have struggled up through the difficulties of poverty to attainments enabling me now to go out alone on the world in the reasonable hope of an honorable livelihood,-these are something more than memories; they are what I owe to you, and you cannot take them from me-benefits to go with me through life. Moreton, farewell! other feelings will some time come to you-would you might be happy as you've been dear to me.' 
               "Tears were rolling over his pale face as he passed out, and I am sure we all in our hearts blessed him, except he whom they did not soften, and whom for one I did not envy. 
               "Moreton was not likely, after this, to make himself another friend. Little influence as so gentle a spirit might seem to have over such as his, Wayland had no doubt exerted a sanative power over it: such natures are no more to be resisted in their effect than dew and sunshine. He could but have drunk in from the daily beauty of his friend's life some healthful and ameliorating beams. In casting Wayland from him, he threw off the vine whose embrace had imparted to his heart all it had of tenderness. It was easy to trace in him, from that moment, a growing harshness and repulsiveness of character. His talents, however, bore him forward. Through the lapse of subsequent years, and all the changes that sometimes separated me from and sometimes brought me in contact with him, he was a prominent man among the leaders of the day around him. 
               "Some fifteen years after we first met, we were brought together in a professional association. How had all the greenness of his life faded out, though still in its very prime! His mind had not yet reached its meridian; his heart was sere-seared for the want of the inward fountains he had willfully dried. Around him was abundance to have kept it green. He had finally settled himself in a beautiful seat, a day or two's journey from New York. He had fine taste, strange as it may seem, and nothing that could minister to it was wanting. All the tendencies of his mind, in fine, had means of ample indulgence-high health, and all appliances for study; high-toned society and ascendancy over his fellows. With all this, and far more, I thought, than all, he had two lovely boys, one of twelve, the other little more than thirteen years of age; but it needed no close observance of life to know that with such a heart, the sweet unfoldings of childhood were likely to call forth much more of despotic and harsh rule than of tender happiness. 
               "Their mother was dead. The gentle bride that Moreton Dewer led to the altar soon after his estrangement from Wayland Russell, had found an early grave. I would fain have traced among the lines of his haughty and commanding brow some touch of her memory, but it was not there. I had known her in her days of joyous girlhood. I remembered her when still wearing the robes of bridal splendor; and as I sometimes mused by the ostentatious marble of her grave, I thought how easy it was to carry out her little history. How often its details were before me!-the husband of rich gifts-of youthful elegance-of early fame; and the love, passionate and trustful, poured out on him,-with the sudden dismay of the young heart at the revealings of his harsh nature; the rapid fading of her dream of happiness, and the slow turning of that heart, with its still tenacious affections, to a brighter world. 
               "From musings like these, I could but turn to her children with more than common interest. It is seldom difficult to win the friendship of young hearts: a few casual meetings secured me theirs. I made them the frequent companions of a bachelor's rambles, and, with a sort of forced abatement of my dislike to the father, became for their sakes a not unfrequent visitor at his house. How was it possible he could draw from them so little of happiness? They were every thing to stir a father's heart with pride or fondness. Charles, the younger, had that kind of beauty which gladdens the sense as an early spring-flower does; it was fairly made up of softness and freshness, and light and color. One had no dreamings of the future in looking at him; always full of glad thoughts and fancies, he stirred only kindred emotions. James Fitzwarren, as he was christened, though usually called by the latter name, bore no resemblance to his brother. His bearing was manly; his face handsome, but thoughtful; his eye dark and passionate. You thought, as you looked at the lines so full of intellectuality and feeling, not of childhood, but of life, with its high requisitions, its bitter trials and strifes; and already I trembled for the young spirit which I feared was being badly trained to meet them. 
               "It was but too easy to trace the unhappy rule that had already given the cast to their young natures, and was daily moulding it into fixedness. Though the father but seldom evinced any thing like fondness for either, I found that Charles had been a favorite from infancy. The cause of this was obvious enough. Of all around him, Charles' sunny face alone reflected no shadow from his own bitter moods. With all its rich and enchanting surroundings, it was in truth a cold and joyless household. Judge Dewer himself, though nothing of feeling could be traced in his haughty aspect, was a sad as well as an austere man. Men of violent temperaments are frequently great sufferers, feeling, with an intensity proportionate to their wrathful passions, and often with wrath itself, the want of that affection and trust they have laid waste. Fitzwarren showed a fear and dislike of his father even in babyhood, reserving for his mother all his infantile smiles and endearments, and clinging to her or his nurse at his father's approach with no equivocal tokens of aversion. Charles' laughing blue eyes evinced no such discriminating preference; the smile called out by the mother's caress met the father's look also. As the season of infancy passed by, the children, as most of children do, learned the terrors of a first disobedience. These were met with characteristic difference: Charles, shrinking from punishment, evaded it by falsehood; Fitzwarren met it without fear, but as a wrong over which he brooded resentfully, though weeping at the same time over the anger of his father. Charles was full of glee at the impunity he had secured; and thus even that first fierce displeasure warped both the fair plants. It taught Charles, not avoidance of fault, but wariness-his truthfulness was gone; and in Fitzwarren's heart, its instinctive struggles for that reverential love which a parent should call forth were greatly weakened. And thus they had grown on, Charles acquiring a facility of deception, and learning to appropriate to himself every stray gleam of sunshine in the father's heart; and Fitzwarren's earnest and strong-toned tendencies coming in more and more frequent conflict with that father's high rule. 
               "Soon after I had become but too well familiarized with these unpleasant truths, some incidents occurred, which were related to me in a chance conference with the housekeeper (a respectable woman, whose devoted attachment to my juvenile friends made their young interests a sort of common ground between us), that were attended with the most unhappy results. 
               "On one of those clear, sparkling winter evenings that make indoor seclusion especially distasteful to youthful spirits, the boys, equipped for a skating party, encountered their father. No light reprimand followed; and as they obeyed the stern order to return to study, Judge Dewer seated himself with them in their usual reading room. Charles had looked in his face for a moment with a deprecating smile, but finally shrugged his shoulders, and assumed his book. Fitzwarren took up his also, but with a clouded brow. He could not read. He parted the curtains of the window and looked out. The night, glittering as it was with all the sheen of northern snow and the light of a full moon, had a beauty that to a nature like his was deeply alluring. He heard, or fancied he heard, the merry shouts of the boys on the lake, which lay scarce half a mile distant, and his young heart grew fevered with its disappointment. The hot tears he would not suffer to fall gathered to his eyes; and at last, flinging his book somewhat violently from him, he rose abruptly and hurried out of the room. As he was passing to his own, he was encountered by a person to whose ill offices in the household he had long been subject. He was in Judge Dewer's employ as a sort of confidential agent and secretary, and had won that kind of influence over him which grows out of long service and great obsequiousness. To this man Fitzwarren's high freedom of speech and manner were matter of dislike. His want of principle had not escaped Fitzwarren's quick eye: the latter had more than once detected him in his deputed authority, in some unwarrantable appropriation; and fearful this malpractice might involve some imputation on his father, he had just formed the purpose of making a full expose of it. As he now passed this man in the hall, a jeering laugh, common to him, upon the interdiction that had been so painful, almost maddened the boy. He broke into a vehement reproach, and in a voice that reached the ear of his father. Judge Dewer had, however, a habit of nursing his wrath, and Fitzwarren was suffered to pass to his chamber without present notice. Charles continued to pore over his book with great assiduity. The father looked up at last from his own, and watched the fair smiling face with an expression even of fondness; it spoke almost audibly the comparison mentally drawn between him and the perverse brother. But the smile and yawn with which Charles met the look released him from further durance. 
               "'Ah! so sleepy already? Well, go to bed, idler! had you gone skating you would not have thought of sleep these two hours.' 
               "'True, my dear father,' said Charles, as, escaping from his presence, he bounded to his room; 'true as the Bible-I shan't sleep these three hours.' 
               "'Why, what are you about, Charles,' said Fitzwarren, looking up from the bed they shared in common. 
               "'Fixing for skating,' said the other, donning his overcoat in high glee; ''tis early enough to join the boys yet. Father'll never be the wiser.-Will you go?' 
               "'No!' 
               "'Well, stay and sulk then-you'll be far enough from sleeping.' 
               "'But it is not right, Charley, and don't you go,' said Fitzwarren, rising from his bed and anxiously approaching his brother. 
               "'Charley's off!' said the incorrigible boy, bounding from the room; and Fitzwarren turned alone to look out upon the sparkling heavens and listen to the sound of distant enjoyment. 
                
               "At breakfast next morning, while the young culprit yet slept, unsuspected of wrong, Fitzwarren was arraigned not only for his perverseness the preceding evening, but for insolence to the secretary. At once, and with all the strong passion of hoarded resentment, he poured out the information he had so long delayed. The charges were of serious moment, but the time and manner in which they were given deprived them of credence. A partial investigation was made, but the wily offender eluded the inquiry. It resulted in fastening upon Fitzwarren the shame of falsehood; and when they again met at dinner, he was peremptorily required to ask the pardon of him he had defamed. Poor fellow! the command gave him the strength of a martyr; he would have died a thousand deaths first. He stood before his terrible father with his slender form thrown up to its utmost height, and without the movement of a muscle. It was one of those scenes of concentrated passion where little is said. 
               "'You may kill me, father, but I won't own to a lie. I'm not afraid of dying-it ain't nothing to having a lie laid on one. I haven't told any; and if I'm whipped to inch pieces, I will say so.' 
               "It was a strange position for the father. It was the second time in his life, perhaps, that he had felt the want of power to enforce his will. The slight form standing so defyingly before him, bore even now marks of stripes that attested the excited boy's strength of endurance through whatever he might inflict. Dewer knew, in fine, as he looked on his son, that personal violence would not now avail. For some minutes he was silent, and for the first time in his life, also, cast about in his mind for something like compromise. 
               "'It is possible there has been some mistake. It's a little thing to acknowledge yourself sorry for what you have said, and it shall then be looked over.' 
               "'Never! never! while I've breath to speak! Nothing on earth can force me to it; not even kindness from you, father, and I've had little enough of it.' 
               "Judge Dewer's face, which had been paler than his son's, grew dark. He was a proud man as well as a wrathful one. He felt himself humbled before his household-the sceptre had departed from him. His powerful frame well-nigh trembled with rage. It was not a trial to lengthen. 'Go!' he said, stamping his foot as Jove only could have stamped; 'go to your chamber, and remain there till morning. I give you till then to reflect. If obedient then, well! if not, you leave my house and home for ever.' 
               "Fitzwarren's head was erect, and his face unmoved, as he walked slowly from him. Not so, however, when he reached his chamber. Then his tears burst-bitter, passionate tears, that seemed as if they would never cease. His father's sentence-for such it was to him-seemed cut in upon his heart. How could he leave his home? how could he part from Charles? Fitzwarren loved his fair though faulty brother as only strong natures love. Charles himself was incapable, perhaps, of a deep attachment; but his childish fondness, his playful endearments, were a world of wealth to Fitzwarren; and as he now followed him to his chamber, the sobbing boy flung himself on his neck in an agony of tenderness. 
               "'Oh Charles! Charles! how can I leave you?' 
               "'Leave me! what do you mean?' 
               "'Why, has not father turned me out of doors? I believe he has always wanted to. Do you think I'll stay another day to trouble him?' 
               "'Pshaw, Fitzwarren! how foolish you talk. I always want to be off when you get in one of your ways. What's the use of such big notions? Just say what father wants you to. If he's so keen to put a lie on you, own to a whole dozen! I'd own to a hundred before I'd have such a blow-up.' 
               "'Why, Charles, if you were not younger than I, I should be ashamed to hear you talk. But I hope you are not in earnest. You think, I suppose, to comfort me; but, Charles, there is no comfort.' 
               "Truly, there was no comfort. Silence and gloom pervaded the whole household. The brief winter-day closed, and the evening ning hours were at last wearing on. Fitzwarren had wept himself to calmness. For some time he had been entirely silent,-then he drew his brother towards him with the deepest tenderness. 
               "'Charles, dear Charles, I want you to listen to me-you must listen. You know I am going to leave you-it will be but an hour or two first. I can't meet father again-it would be no use, only another hard trial for me. And oh! Charley, my precious brother, whom I love better than life, won't you promise me one thing before I go? Say that from now on, you will try to think what right and wrong is; and never tell what is not so, and not deceive father again in any thing. If you want I should have something to comfort me, say this; and when I'm gone, think over the things I've so often told you. And oh! Charley, don't let the weeds grow round mother's grave.' 
               "'I do wish, Warry, you'd stop preaching! I always get sleepy when you talk so solemn. Just see how it's snowing, and every thing seems so lonesome. I may as well go to bed, and do you come too. I'll promise every thing you want if you won't go away; and not take what father says in such a great way any more.' 
               "Fitzwarren knelt beside the bed, and laying his own head on the pillow beside his brother's 'wealth of curls,' laid his cheek to his. Charles flung his arm over his neck, and nestling towards him with a sigh, soft and pleasant as an infant's, sunk to sleep. Fitzwarren slowly unclasped the twining arm and rose to his feet. Then he stood and looked at the almost waxen face with intense fondness. 'Ah! how little he knows of the sorrow that is breaking my heart. He cannot know, for father loves him. Who would not love you, Charley, my pretty brother!' And again he knelt beside him, and pressed on his lips kiss after kiss; and still, as he again rose, stood and looked long at the fair slumbering features. The heart of the poor boy seemed indeed breaking as he at last turned away and looked out upon the dreary night. It was little enough like the preceding one. With the darkness of a winter storm, the winds came to his ear with a sound that to aching hearts is always in itself a wail. Where was he to go? To his inexperienced thought the difficulties of his position were scarcely appreciated; but its desolateness pressed on him with a sickening weight. Tying up a few articles of dress, and again giving to his sleeping brother one look-the last he ever gave that beloved face till the shadows of death were on it-he went into the room that had been his mother's. It was silent, but not to him empty; for her picture still hung where it had been left at her death, and he was wont to come alone and gaze at it. His eye was now fixed on it, through tears of passionate sorrow; and it was no delusion that the soft eye seemed to look down upon him with unutterable tenderness, for the artist had given to those meek orbs the same expression with which she was wont to look upon her first-born. 
               "I acknowledge but one superstition," said our narrator, breaking off with a smile from the minute detail; "and that, beautiful exceedingly, I would not part with for worlds. It is that the spirit of the Christian mother is permitted to become a ministering angel to her orphaned children-an unseen presence, whispering peace and hope to their young hearts. How else should they not break when thrown from her heart upon the coldness of the world? A superstition I called it. I should rather say it was an article of my creed, which I learned when a friendless boy myself, under a hard master, and I used to creep shiveringly into my lonely bed and weep; for then my mother, more beautiful than in life, would come and sit beside me, and, parting back the hair that is now getting gray, would whisper over the little prayers she had taught me in life; and as I again repeated them, I would sink into such happy slumbers!-But I'm getting on badly. 
               "Fitzwarren looked at the picture till his heart grew tranquillized; till it was strong enough to leave; and then, as the midnight hour quieted the outdoor storm, he went out a wanderer, with no eye upon him but His who heareth the young ravens' cry. 
               "Judge Dewer uttered but one sentence when he found his son was gone: 'Let his name be never mentioned in my presence;' yet I have no doubt he suffered. There was a stern gloom on his brow seldom or never quite dissipated, though the blandishments of Charles had evidently a growing power over him, and sometimes touched his look with a passing pleasure. 
               "But gloom was thickening over the household. The long delinquencies of his secretary resulted at last in sudden and unequivocal proof; and then an inquiry, the first that had been made by the father, but attended now with a solicitude his pride failed to disguise, was sent out for the absent wanderer. He was traced to New York, and there on shipboard, as cabin-boy in a well-known vessel that had been unfortunately lost in its outward passage. What the grief of Judge Dewer was could only be gathered from slight tokens of early declension. It might be seen that something of his supremacy of mind was gone; and this change was soon made more perceptible by other griefs. Charles felt the final loss of his brother, as he had done their first separation-with stronger sorrow than might have been expected from so light a nature; but it was a sorrow that passed. The misfortune of that loss was to him a permanent one. The high principle and example of Fitzwarren would have probably averted the blight with which his life was early smitten, but no judicious hand arrested its first touches; and ere he grew to manhood, habits of dissoluteness had fastened irretrievably upon him. The effect of his son's derelictions, as they grew at last more obvious, though there was in it nothing of lessened pride or remitted exaction, was most painful. It was pitiable to see the strong man's struggles in the stronger grasp of sorrows of which his fierce pride allowed no one's observance. These derelictions bore not only on the father's sense of character, but on the position of unembarrassed opulence he had hitherto supported. The wealth acquired by years of professional industry in addition to early patrimony, melted away like frost-work in vain endeavor to sustain the honor of his son. 
               "Meantime the jostle of life had again separated me from him. I became a resident of New York city, where the pomps and splendors by which I was surrounded were in little unison with my own peculiarities. I disliked even the rival magnificence of the churches, and was gratified at seeing one in a remote part of the city distinguished by its plainness. I thought of it through the week, and with the ringing of the bells on the following Sabbath wended my way thither. The congregation itself bore evidence of the influence of a spirit meek in holiness, and the appearance of the minister, as he rose, settled the conviction. I have not words to tell the impression made on me by that face-so clear, so serene, so almost luminous-as is a crystal vase holding light-with divine inspiration. But the features were not unfamiliar. Time seemed to have had little power over lineaments that I well remembered as having years ago the placid grace of the inner life; but the voice, low yet with a silvery distinctness, removed all doubt. It was Wayland Russell!-he had found his true vocation. 
               "I could scarcely expect him to know me, for time had not shown me much lenience. I was even fearful he had forgotten me altogether; but my name, as I eagerly met him in his descent from the pulpit, brought back the old smile, now not only kind, but full of gladness. I had been remembered!-I promised him an early visit; a promise he meant I should fulfil, for he came the following day to accompany me to his home. Home, it was, though comparatively humble; it had the very atmosphere of quiet comfort, with those simple embellishments that evidence taste in the cottage far more than the costlier ones of rich men's dwellings. The happy faces of a small but most lovely family withal, lighted it with a warmth that reached my heart instantly. I saw that my friend was not rich. In addition to his ministerial duties,-and these I felt were carried 
                     'To the homes where poor men sleep,'-
                   I found that for years he had been a teacher of classics to a private class. Yet he had a wealth of happiness to satisfy friendship's utmost requirements for him. How delightfully the hours passed away! how rich was his intelligence! how pervading his piety! how full and free his confidence! He had lost his two oldest children-his only sons; but he spoke of them as yielded back willingly to their Heavenly Father. He asked kindly and earnestly of Judge Dewer, and listened with absorbing interest to his melancholy household history. Some information recently received from a mutual friend enabled me to bring it up to the present, and with the most painful minuteness. Judge Dewer's affairs (my correspondent said) were thought to be involved in irretrievable ruin. The son's dissolute course had been still marked with increasing recklessness, and the father's sacrifices had been without limit; for, strange to say, through all this his heart seemed to turn with deepening yearnings to the offender, and the blandishments that Charles retained through all his sinnings, to become more and more necessary to him. It was not difficult for Wayland Russell or myself to understand this. Repelling the world more and more, no doubt, as difficulties and humiliations gathered around him, it was only in the fond and trustful smiles and tones his son always extended to him, that he at all found food for the stern hungerings of his nature. Most sorrowfully did his early friend now dwell upon the train of evils that had grown out of that unhappy nature, and our sympathies in them were not dissimilar. But our conversation was interrupted by a summons to tea, and the saddened expression of his countenance seemed to give place to some pleasant thought. 
               "'We must wait for James,' he said to his wife-' shall we not, Florence? I had forgotten to tell you he promised to be with us this evening. There is one of my family, at present domiciled elsewhere, whom you have not yet seen,' he added, turning to me; 'one not our own but exceedingly dear to us. That is his step now, Florence; so your tea need not be delayed.' 
               "There was an unusual play in Mr. Russell's serene smile, but I had not time to look for its meaning. My attention was at once fixed by the entrance of the person of whom he spoke. It was a young man in the perfection of transcendent manhood. Rarely had I seen so noble a face or figure; yet for some moments I scarcely saw the first, for his tall form was bent to the embrace of a lovely little girl, the youngest of the household, who, with her white arms round his neck, seemed bent on smothering him with kisses. But from this rather awkward position he gracefully extricated himself, and turned towards me with an aspect of mingled dignity and respect. Mr. Russell pronounced my name only, and looking at me for a moment, the young man's whole face lit up with an expression of joyous and affectionate surprise. 
               "'My earliest friend!' he exclaimed, 'the first true friend of my boyhood!' And grasping my hands, and holding them in his own, he seemed to expect an answering recognition. I looked in his face with a searching earnestness that might well settle his identity. His features were those of Fitzwarren Dewer, whose death I had mourned with a true sorrow. Had the cruel tale been all a fiction? For years the wail of storms had carried back my thoughts to the outcast boy, who had found in the sea a refuge from harsher tempests. Yet I could not be mistaken; even the voice, though with far more softness, had something in its deep tones resembling the father's. The tardy utterance of his name by my quiet friend was at last unnecessary-it was James Fitzwarren Dewer who stood before me, with all that his childhood had given of fair promise more than realized. The joy with which I embraced him was unspeakable. It was a rich, joyous sunlight breaking upon the cold routine of every day life. Not a single intervening tie having twined around my isolated bachelor existence, I may be excused for a little extra feeling. It was not without effort I turned from him for any thing like explanation, and this was at last gathered in broken snatches from himself and Mr. Russell. 
               "The last trace obtained of the young outcast had been no purposed fiction. Reaching the city, weary and heart-sick, he had met with only cold repulse in his applications for employment, and had availed himself, as his only resource, of a proffered place on shipboard by the owner of the ill-fated vessel then about to depart. Yet it was with an almost bursting heart that, a few hours before it finally weighed anchor, he stood on the beach, gazing ing at the billowy expanse on which he was to go out an alien from all he had loved. Chance, or as Mr. Russell evidently thought it, an especial Providence, led him at the same hour to the same spot. To a heart like his, the tear-stained face, the look of childish loneliness, could not pass unobserved. He approached the sorrowful boy, and spoke to him in a tone of kindness that won the oppressed heart to freedom and confidence. 
               "'You are a young adventurer,' said Mr. Russell, 'on the great world of waters. Do you go out on this ship of your own choice, or did your friends make the arrangement for you?' 
               "'I have no friends,' said Fitzwarren; and the tears he had struggled to suppress again rolled over his cheek. 
               "'Poor boy!' said Mr. Russell; 'but you must have friends somewhere. Are your parents dead?' 
               "'Not my father,-but'- 
               "'But what?' said Mr. Russell, after waiting some moments the finishing of the sentence. 'I trust, my dear boy,' he added with great tenderness, 'that you haven't withdrawn yourself from his care unadvisedly?' 
               "'Oh sir, he bade me leave him. I had been so unfortunate as to offend him-indeed, sir, I did not do it willingly.' 
               "Mr. Russell's interest increased; the high, though childlike bearing-the ingenuous face-the truthful manner-he could not doubt them. 'Don't cry, my dear. I must learn something more of this matter. Who is your father? Possibly there is some misunderstanding. I can do something, perhaps, in your behalf.' 'A whole volume of unhappy details,' said Mr. Russell (as this point of the interview was reached), 'was conveyed to me in the name the poor child uttered-Judge Dewer! It thrilled through and through me like an electric shock. With that relentless nature there could be no thought of mediation for his offending boy. But I had not a moment's hesitation as to the duty before me. With the remembrance of his severity, came the softening vision of years of kindness. I drew his child towards me with a feeling as if he were my own. If the Captain will release you, said I, pressing him in my arms, will you stay with me? I will have for you the care of a father. Yours was once my friend-the earliest and dearest I ever had; but I, too, had the misfortune to offend him. For long years I have not been privileged to address him, and I owe him a debt which I can only pay to you.' 
               "'I took the half glad, half wondering boy in my hand, and sought the owner of the ship. I made out my bill of claims upon the lad, and, as I expected from a son of the ocean, they were met with frankness and kindness. He had found the boy afloat, he said, without anchor or compass, and had taken him on shipboard because he fancied him. He meant to have been kind to him-(no one could doubt it that met the gallant sailor's look)-but he was better pleased that one like him had found a snug berth on shore. And so we parted, with a gush on Fitzwarren's part of grateful tears; and a few months after I could scarcely suppress my own, in learning the warm-hearted seaman's fate-though I trusted that when the storm was laid that wrecked him, he found, in his own language, a berth aloft. I took my young charge home. His face and story alike won the heart of Florence, and he became our son. I educated him as I intended to my own, had they been spared me-wholly, at least till he reached his professional course, by my own instruction. It was no task to train so rich and eager an intellect; the character, strong and impetuous, required deeper care. But he has grown up all the most exacting interest could ask; that face and form are no nobler than his mind.' 
               "Thus in chance moments (when his eye was turned) gathering the praises of my young friend, and again hearing his own outpourings upon all he owed to his benefactor, an hour or two was spent in perfect enjoyment. Fitzwarren had at last to take leave, for his hours of privilege were brief; but I still lingered-I had yet much to ask and hear of his little history. Had there been no thought all this time of undeceiving Judge Dewer in regard to his supposed death? But this query was silenced by what I might have judged; till the communication I had just made to Mr. Russell, neither he nor Fitzwarren had any knowledge of the mistaken belief. The tardy efforts of Judge Dewer to trace his son had so speedily resulted in information for ever staying further inquiry, they had still supposed no inquiry for him had been made. 'The truly pitiable fear in which I found Fitzwarren held his father,' said Mr. Russell, 'the conviction I felt that his fine nature would be ruined by such a rule, made me at once anxious to screen him from the possible chance of being reclaimed. We dropped the Fitzwarren part of his name, and called him only James; we changed the spelling of the other to Duer; and in the almost entire seclusion of scholastic life he might well remain, as he has, undiscovered.' 
               "'And did he now intend making no disclosure of himself-seeking no reconciliation?' 
               "'Assuredly,' said Mr. Russell, 'and the time for it has now come. Believing he had been wholly uncared for-that at least no interest had been evinced in him, his years of boyhood passed without any thought, either on my part or his, of paternal claims. Then his own correct principles awakened to a gradual sense of filial duty. To open some communication with his beloved Charles, had been a never-quieted desire in his heart; but this would have inevitably disclosed his position to his father. But such disclosure in his own name, with an appeal for pardon, now rose to his daily thought. Still it has been delayed. Fitzwarren has a touch of his father's pride-nobler and purer, but still pride. He knew not (what I grieve to have learned from you to-day) that his father had fallen in any degree from his high estate. The appeal might be misconstrued in its motive, and we both thought it better to delay it till his professional studies were completed. This is now about done. Chancellor K--, with whom he has studied, gives me high assurance of his legal attainments. No doubtful course is now before him. The intelligence received from you, and which I briefly communicated to him in our parting at the gate, has already struck to his heart a remorseful feeling for the delayed purpose. The smiles with which he had bidden you good night were all gone, poor fellow! when he left me, and I doubt not that at this moment he is writing, in all the fervor of filial love and duty, to his unhappy, if still unkind parent.' 
                
               "Fitzwarren was indeed writing, but it was to Charles, whom he begged, by every tie of brotherhood, to mediate for his pardon. I learned this from himself; for he came to me the next day, with his rich smile indeed sadly faded, to hear all that I could tell him of his family. The delinquencies of Charles bowed his head like a reed. How strongly did I feel, as I saw the very passion of his wounded pride and sorrow, the disastrous issue of the fierce rule that had separated from the younger brother the guardianship of such a spirit. 
               "But the events of my story were hastening to a crisis. Fitzwarren had left me scarce an hour, when a fresh communication from a friend brought me intelligence, that, though given in a brief mention, would to Fitzwarren be a world of painful import. Charles' career was drawing to a mournful close. Prostrated at last by a decline, to which his dissolute habits had doubtless led, he had been borne home from his haunts of vice and folly-to die. But the ruin of the father was supposed to be already complete; even his fine estate, the home of so many years, was about to be sold. It was a heavy mission, but Fitzwarren must be told; and I went immediately to the office where he read. He was not there. He looked badly, Chancellor K-- said, and he had advised him to leave study for an hour or two, and he was probably at his guardian's. As I left the office, whom should I meet on the steps but Judge Dewer!-certainly the last man in the world I thought of then seeing. But my surprise was followed by pain at seeing how worn, how almost haggard he looked. Yet his manner was little changed-still proud and cold, though with something of brief communicativeness. Charles, he said, was very ill-he had scarce left his bedside for weeks, but urgent business had now brought him to the city, which he had not visited before for years. He had to speak with Chancellor K--; would keep me waiting but a few moments, and would then accompany me to my rooms. I passed back with him into the office. His business with the Chancellor (with whom I found he had had an acquaintance in former years), seemed principally to inquire out a suitable agent to send on business of some moment, he said, to one of the trans-Atlantic cities. I recollected there had been mention in my letter of a slight chance of his saving his estate by the sale of some European property which he still held; and I now knew how urgent was the business that had brought him from his son's pillow. 
               "'I can recommend you at once,' said the Chancellor, 'to a young man that is eminently qualified for such a business; one that has been long in my office, and whose capacity and high honor I know. I would myself trust him in a business arrangement to the amount of thousands.' 
               "'That is enough,' said Judge Dewer; 'your recommendation I knew might save me time and trouble; the first of which is at this time no light object with me. Where shall I see this young man?' 
               "'He is just now, I believe, at the house of a friend-his former guardian; not quite well to-day,-and that's always his favorite retreat. Shall I give you his address?' 
               "I felt my blood quickened by the impending denouement. 
               "'The young man you mean,' said I, 'Chancellor, is a favorite of mine, you know, and I will pilot the Judge thither.' 
               "'Do so,' said the Chancellor, 'here's his card-James Duer; your own name in sound, Judge, but spelled differently, and of course of a different lineage. Curious enough, though! he looks somewhat as you did twenty-five years ago, and has more than once brought you to my mind, though a much cleverer fellow.' 
               "The good-natured sally was met by one of the Judge's coldest smiles. He seemed, indeed, scarcely to hear it-the business on hand engrossing him solely. We walked some minutes after leaving the office without the interchange of a word. 'Judge Dewer,' said I at length, 'I ought perhaps to tell you that this young man's guardian, to whose house we are going, is not unknown to you. There were some passages, I think, in your earlier lives, that may make a meeting unpleasant to you. He is Wayland Russell, now for some years a pastor in the city.' 
               "An almost imperceptible shade crossed his face. 'The young man,' he said, 'has been fortunate in the choice or accident of his guardianship, for Wayland Russell had by nature a character of high order. That he chose to cast off the ties of friendship that once united us, is to neither of us at this lapse of time a matter of any moment.' 'Implacable as ever,' thought I. Yet, cold as his words were, the slight and brief expression of pain convinced me that pride, rather than resentment, was now the keeper of his memory. 
               "On reaching the house, we were shown into the room where Mr. R. sat. He rose, and met us with his usual serenity of manner, but with a little of perplexity in the inquiring look. I knew it was vain to await its scrutiny. Judge Dewer could have been at no loss in tracing his early friend in the mild features before him; but in his own heavy person, and the face where passion and grief had drawn so many lines, there could be no recognition of Moreton Dewer. I presented him by his name. Mr. Russell extended his hand; but though it was taken, the deep eye that was lifted to his former friend's in affectionate questioning of the heart, met with nothing of tender memory. I began to feel my own position a little embarrassing, but there was nothing left but to flounder on 'in my dim and perilous way.' 
               "Fitzwarren was standing at a bookcase, with his back towards us, at our entrance, but at the announcement of his father's name he had turned abruptly towards us, and now, with one step advanced, stood as if transfixed with the intensity of his gaze. 
               "'This,' said I, 'Judge Dewer, is the young man you wished to see.' 
               "'I am in need,' said the Judge (looking at his imposing figure with evident confidence) 'of an agent to transact some business for me in England, and have been referred to you.' 
               "'Have you not been told then-do you not know-who I am?' The depth of Fitzwarren's tone was perfectly startling. 
               "'I do not understand you, sir,' said the Judge, with a look of extreme surprise; 'I suppose I am speaking to Mr. James Duer?' 
                
               "'I am James Fitzwarren Dewer, and you, sir-are you not my father?' 
               "The father stood and gazed at his son with perfect rigidity of feature. His very limbs seemed fixed in the bewilderment that locked up his senses. Mr. Russell, who had quietly resumed his seat, rose and approached him. 
               "'Judge Dewer,' he said, in a voice of the tenderest solemnity, 'acknowledge your boy! You have labored under a most painful, though accidental deception. James Fitzwarren Dewer still lives to honor the name. God has kept him in the hollow of His hand. Receive and bless your son!' 
               "The words were as a sudden revelation of light. The doubt, the mystery, the bewilderment were all gone. The strong tie of nature was recognized, and the indomitable pride of years gave way. Receiving on his neck the subdued form of his son, he clasped his arms fervently around him, and tears (which if he had ever before shed, it had been in secret) rolled over his face like fountains. Mr. Russell left the room, and was slowly pacing the garden. I joined him in a fulness of heart that would have utterance. Tears were on his face, also; and yet,-I do not intend to speak irreverently,-it was as the face of an angel. My own joy was of a more earthly order-comporting badly indeed with my own proper dignity. I laughed outright; shook hands with Mr. Russell with all possible energy, and rubbed my own with the glee of a great schoolboy. 
               "We were not long alone. Judge Dewer, leaning on his son, approached us. How was his whole aspect changed? I knew not before what transformation might be wrought in human lineaments by mere expression. 'Why do you shun me, Wayland Russell?' he said. 'Is all you have done for me, goodness only? mere generous pity to the outcast? Of another I might ask this, but not of you, Wayland. Forgiving, and forgetful of offence and injury, still have you not saved my boy in part for his father's sake?' 
               "'My dear Moreton!' 
               "A host of words could not have conveyed as much as that fond familiar accent. Gladly would Mr. Russell have thrown himself on his friend's bosom, and given way to the emotion o'erflooding his; but, ever thoughtful and considerate for others, he felt how necessary it was to draw both father and son from an atmosphere so rarefied. 'Ah!' he said, grasping his friend's hand, and holding it in a fervent pressure, with one of his richest smiles, ''tis an easy thing to forget bygones, Moreton; but will not new matter of strife rise between us? What Solomon shall we find to determine which has the best claim to this our son?' 
               "He then led us back to the house-presented Judge Dewer to his Florence, as his earliest, his still dearest friend; and then, gathering us around him, entered into a strain of easy and happy converse, as if all that had passed were but a matter of course. Truly, such natures are as a light to the feet. 
               "Our stay wore far into the night, for there was much to be discussed. Amid all the rejoicing interests of the hour, the remembrance of the poor prodigal came like a darkening shadow. Judge Dewer's brow was crossed with anguish as he named him and to Fitzwarren his brother's image was now but the one thought, taking mournful possession of his whole soul. To fly to him-to take post by his bed-to minister to his relief-and to watch over him with a care that might restore,-for this he would freely give what remained to himself of life; for this, no time was to be lost. 
               "Judge Dewer spoke freely of his affairs. So harassed had he been, so little used to profit by the law's delay, that he seemed to have scarcely thought what postponement of sacrifice was yet in his power. The interest I truly felt led me into closer views,-some measures might yet be taken. I was myself able, and this, I now ventured to mention, to exert a little active intervention in the necessary arrangements; and further sacrifice might at any rate be warded off till such time as Fitzwarren could be properly spared to attend to the business for which he was indeed the most suitable agent. Judge Dewer threw it all into my hands, seeming to feel great relief from the trust; and early on the following day Fitzwarren was on his way with his father to the home he had so sorrowfully left. 
                
               "Sorrowfully he was returning to it. Many pictures of tender memory were before him; and with that one ever-present, of the fair boy that lay sleeping in smiling unconsciousness of his parting embrace, came the changed and perhaps dying face of him to whom he was hastening. Few words were interchanged on the sad journey. They arrived at a late hour; and the first gleam of the light streaming from Charles' window, made him faint at heart. Anxious fears had been entertained by both of the effect on the sufferer, of Fitzwarren's letter (of which the father was now aware), should it be received ere they reached; but the ready answer to the inquiry of suppressed dread reassured them. Charles was no worse-was now sleeping; the letter had most likely not been received. The restoration of his brother could now be broken to him gradually; at present he must not at all be disturbed. The father would spend the night in his chamber, but Fitzwarren must retire without seeing him-a bitter prohibition to his almost bursting heart, but not to be disobeyed, and it was somewhat softened by the growing tenderness of his father's tones. 
               "Judge Dewer went to the sick chamber, and bade the nurse, the housekeeper we have mentioned, and who still from devoted service kept her place, go to rest. His noiseless step did not awake the sleeper, and he stood and looked at him without tracing any essential change. But a letter, still grasped in his hand, was also fastened by his shirt-brooch, and the housekeeper, who had still lingered, said it had been brought him some hours since; that he had bidden her read it to him, and that she, too, trembled with the first word-joyous as was its import, for its effect; but that it awakened in him a rapture that seemed only to give him a sudden strength. He had snatched it from her, and read it again and again himself, and with such expressions of thankfulness, such outbreaks of gladness, as in her whole life she had never heard. Afterwards he sunk into the peacefullest way possible, with now and then only a low murmur. She heard him say, 'Coming to close his Charley's eyes;' and again he said, more earnestly, 'Saved to sustain poor father.' 
                
               "Tears again rolled over Judge Dewer's face. Left at last to himself (for the housekeeper had lingered but to get permission to go to Fitzwarren's room ere she sought her own), he remained long in painfully brooding silence. Then he drew the letter carefully from the tenacious grasp that held it, and opened it to trace the words that had so gladdened the almost parting spirit. Ah! what a world of love,-tender, considerate, admonishing love,-was poured out in that letter! entreating too, for earnestly, feelingly did he beg his intercession for himself with his offended father. Well might that father's heart overflow at last with tears of tenderness for his first-born. With the letter in his hand, he rose and went to Fitzwarren's room-stood at the window, seeming to look out upon the rich embowering that checkered the soft moonlight; but his thoughts were upon the white marble that gleamed through the trees, and upon the brother whose bedside he so longed to reach. 
               "'Not in bed yet!' said the father kindly; 'but I'm glad you're not. Come! You will be prudent-Charles seems to sleep deeply-it will not disturb him,-come and look at him, if you will.' 
               "Fitzwarren grasped his father's hand and followed him in silence. He struggled to still the beatings of his heart as he entered the room. Once more his brother was before him; and even as, on the bitter night of parting, he had knelt by his couch and kissed him in silent passion, so did he again kneel beside the unconscious sleeper; so did he softly put back the curls that yet lay rich and glossy round the sunken temples, and gaze upon the face whose beauty had been to him a treasured image. Beautiful it was still: The hectic of the mocking disease touched the cheek with a soft glow; the smile he had worn in childhood was there still; and little could Fitzwarren realize that years of shame and folly had since passed over that beloved head. Taking the thin hand in his, he bowed his head over it, and remained long in that kneeling position. 
               "The worn father, satisfied that all was well, sank gradually into heavy sleep. The night wore on; and even through that melancholy vigil the brother's heart was full of thankfulness, that it was permitted him. Charles scarcely stirred through its long watches. Once or twice he murmured 'Fitzwarren,' and the tone had all the loving cadence of his boyhood. Once he said, 'Intercede for you? for what, Warry?-it is I that have beggared poor father!' As the day was at last breaking, he roused as from some glad, exciting dream. 'Has Warry come? The thought had taken so strong possession of his mind, that he sprung up from his pillow. Fitzwarren knew the time had come; his father, too, who had also awakened, beckoned him to go forward. He approached the bed, and looking him in the face, said as he took his hand, 'Yes! yes! Warry is here: my precious Charles: my beloved brother! I have come, and never, never again will I leave you.' Charles sunk back exhausted on his pillow, but a smile, unearthly in its brightness, parted his lips. Fitzwarren leaned over him, and kissed them again and again. He returned one kiss! and then, putting him a little from him, lifted his eyes, which had never lost their soft light, to his face, as if tracing its lines. It became fixed in that fond gaze,-for the spirit had fled! 
               "I have little more to tell. Deeply as he mourned the son who so long held the sole key to his softer feelings, Judge Dewer became a happier man. The imperial intellect was to some degree broken, but new fountains sprung in his heart, and hopes pointing to a better world. He resigned his business to his son, on whose upward course, distinguished by all that is noble in manhood, he looked with something doubtless of a father's pride, but still more of affection. He lived to see him in calm enjoyment of the home he had been able to redeem; and, what was even more to him, to repay to Wayland Russell, through his children, and in ways that silenced rejection, much of what might be measured of the great debt due to him. But it was in his renewed intercourse with this friend, who often, as he did at the time of bereavement, waived every other claim to spend with him a brief season,-that he found a settled peace. The mind that so usually burned with a still light, glowed, at the thought of the unseen world, into intense radiance; and while the benignant nature of Wayland Russell soothed and quieted the long irritation of his friend's heart, the eloquence, breaking at times into the very passion of inspiration, dispelled the mists that had gathered over his better reason. He learned to know of Him that was meek and lowly of heart, and the fierce pride of his nature became permanently subdued in that knowledge. Wayland Russell received his last sigh." 
                
               "What is the matter, Carry?" asked her friend Harley Ives, on whom she was leaning, as at the close of the story she lifted her head with a long-drawn sigh; "What is the matter, little one?" 
               "Oh! I'm so tired! Such long stories as papa's friends tell, and they aint real stories, neither." 
               "And why not, Carry?" 
               "Why, stories are always about people that are crossed in love-and they've so much trouble for a while-and then it all comes right-and they get married." 
               "True, my dear Carry, they are the genuine stories; but I know one that is a real love-tale, and I'll tell it you some time." 
               "Some time! oh, that is so long! When will you tell it, Mr. Ives? to-morrow?" 
               "Well, perhaps, if you are very good." 
             
             
                
               THE SOLDIER'S SON. 
               "HAVEN'T I been good?" whispered Carry, who during breakfast had been a little more quiet than usual. 
               "You certainly have, and you shall have the story." 
               "Is it about another of your and papa's old playmates?" 
               "Not exactly, but he was one that joined us once on the great day you've heard us mention. Ask your papa if he does not remember Alvah Hamilton." 
               "I assuredly do," said Mr. Collingwood, "and handsome enough he was for any story; with the finest eyes you can think of, Carry, and lithe and graceful as your own deer, that you fancy sometimes is a disguised fairy. He looked, in truth,-and the thought crossed me, I remember, even then,-that he was bound to be a hero." 
               "Well, just so he looked, as, some short time after, he approached a traveller that had just landed in the city, and asked, 'Shall I take your baggage, sir?' 'My servant takes care of it,' was the reply; but the speaker, seemingly struck with the peculiar interest of the young applicant's look, flung him a piece of money. Alvah picked it up, but his fine, though somewhat pale face, reddened to crimson. He approached the traveller with a manner of mingled pride and embarrassment: 'I was seeking employment, sir, not alms.' 'True, my little Don,' said the gentleman, smiling; 'but you won't return so very a trifle on my hands?' Alvah stood a moment in silence. It was clear the young spirit recoiled from an appropriation of the humiliating gift, and he remained twirling it in his fingers. Proud as the boyish features were, there was an expression on them that seemed to say he would not willingly appear ungrateful; and while the traveller was giving directions to his servant, his willowy form went through a variety of shifting and irresolute attitudes. Accident, however,-or perhaps it was some of Carry's invisible fairies-helped him out of his perplexity. A beggar came up at the moment, and tossing him the unlucky coin, the boy turned to the traveller with a brightened face: 'I thank you as much, sir, as if I had kept your gift;' and bowing with a respectful grace, well suited to the expression of his look, he disappeared. 
               "Mr. Courtney (for that was the traveller's name) had one of those natures at once refined, fanciful, and impulsive, upon which such a small incident was calculated to make a vivid impression. In a stroll that led him, a day or two after, to the outskirts of the city, he was greatly pleased at recognizing, though in a group of laborers by the wayside, the same slender and elastic figure. 'Ah! my young acquaintance,' he said, in a tone of winning kindness, 'I have got you once more, have I? I sha'nt let you slip through my fingers this time so easily; I shall have your name now. Alvah Hamilton, you say,' he continued, still contrasting, as he looked at him, the exceeding beauty of the face, and its high expression of feeling, with the coarse dress and the humble employment; 'and who are your parents?' 
               "'I have only a father, sir.' 
               "'And what's his vocation, Alvah?' 
               "'He's a worn-out soldier, sir; he is not able to do any thing.' 
               "The young laborer had still applied himself to his work with bateless diligence, but the interested questioner was not to be shaken off by the brevity of his answers. 
               "'You live with him, I suppose, and work for him?' 
               "Alvah lifted his eyes for the first time. 'Certainly, sir;' but the look said, What else should his own son do? 
                
               "'In what part of the city do you live?' 
               "Alvah pointed to a decayed and miserable dwelling not far off. 
               "'There?' said Mr. Courtney, and he looked pained. 'A soldier, you say your father is. I love to talk with our old veterans. Quit your work, my boy,-the men, you see, are leaving for dinner,-and take me with you to see him.' 
               "The bleak November blast that was whistling around them as they turned to the poor tenement, impressed the beholder more deeply with the wretchedness of its aspect. Mr. Courtney's musings, as he drew his furred coat closer around him, might have been almost read. 'So we pay our old soldiers, while we get up dinners and marble monuments for officers.' They reached the shattered dwelling; and as Alvah led the way, Mr. Courtney's feelings lost nothing of their tone. The decrepit father into whose presence he was led was sitting with his head leaning on his staff, awaiting the coming of his boy not only in silence and solitude, but darkness; for on lifting his furrowed brow, his visitant perceived he was utterly blind. 
               "'Pardon the intrusion of a stranger,' said Mr. Courtney, taking the old man's hand; 'I came but to chat an hour with a revolutionary veteran.' 
               "The countenance of the old soldier, as at the step of the visitant he slowly lifted his head from his staff, had discovered strong lines of sorrow and suffering; but it took a ready expression (divested of light as it was) of benignant and gratified feeling. 
               "'He who comes to cheer the weariness of so long a night as mine,' he said, grasping Mr. Courtney's hand, 'must be welcome.' 
               "Conversation ensued without effort. To a soldier of the Revolution, its events were like the tale of olden chivalry to the last of the minstrels; and Mr. Courtney had enough of national feeling to follow the old man's leadings with lively interest. But Mr. Courtney had an ulterior purpose, and he gradualy shaped his remarks to lead to it. 
                
               "'A hard war it was,' he said in reply to some detail of suffering, 'but withal a glorious one. Would that every brave old head that bore its peltings was now sheltered as warmly and peacefully as the country is prosperous and happy. A vain wish, I know. Still, he who has such a land to bequeath to his sons is not without his reward. You have a son, old man, that seems to me especially worthy of such a bequest. Is he who calls himself Alvah, your all?' 
               "'All that is left me of a large family. Three brave boys, dearer to me than the eyes I gave with them, have been given to my country. I mourn, but don't begrudge them; but their mother and two fair sisters,-ah! women aint strong enough for such things. One's heart broke outright, and the others,-well, they all died. 'Twas called consumption, but a long heart-sorrow wastes life just as sure. They left me with only my youngest born, and him I could then no longer see.' 
               "'But you can feel his goodness, old man, and that is much.' 
               "'Ah, sir, more than I deserve. He would be comfort enough to me, only that I grieve to draw so on his young strength for my own life, as it were.' 
               "'And whose strength should you draw on, dear father?' said the smiling Alvah, fondly stroking back the thin gray hair from the old man's forehead. He had slipped out, during the conversation, to procure some delicacies for his father's meal, and had at the moment re-entered. 
               "'And is he,' said Mr. Courtney, as Alvah proceeded to arrange these upon the little table he drew to his father, 'is he your sole dependence?' 
               "'All the staff I have,' said the old man; 'but a soldier's wants are few. And then I could not tell you his industry. When he has not one thing to do, he tries another. He is never idle.' 
               "'Ah! but all this leaves him no chance for instruction. A boy like him, too! It must be seen to, if possible.' 
               "'He is not growing up quite ignorant, sir,' said the old man, something of pride touching the sightless face; 'he learned to read before he can scarce remember; he writes a fair hand, too -fairer, they tell me, than most boys of his age; and of the long winter evenings I am able myself,-for I had a turn that way,-to help him along with his sums; and there's many a schoolboy that isn't getting along as well as he is.' 
               "'I rejoice to hear it,' said Mr. Courtney; 'it will make it easy for him to get a place in some good business house in the city, and he ought to go to such a one at once.' 
               "'A place, sir! and leave my father!' said Alvah-'my father, and he blind!' 
               "'Not so fast, my dear boy, I thought not of your leaving him. But I think-I think you might,' said Mr. Courtney, beginning to feel that an object was easier planned than executed, 'you ought, at any rate, to find a situation with wages that would render his supplies less precarious than at present. True, the right kind of a place is not always to be found; but if you had only some influential friend now to recommend you.' 
               "'We are all,' said the old man, 'that either has, to each other.' 
               "'We are enough to each other, dear father,' exclaimed Alvah, pressing closely and fondly to the old man's side; 'you are all to me that a host of friends could be; and, father, don't you often say I am all the world to you? And, dear sir, I hope he don't want much for any thing.' 
               "'True-doubtless entirely true,' said Mr. Courtney; 'but of course he would be happier if you were put to business that would promise something for the future. In a respectable and prosperous business house your habits would be as stepping-stones, bearing you constantly upward. Unfortunately, I have no acquaintance with the business houses of the city, except one whose principal, a worthy and whole-souled man, is now absent. I am about leaving it, too; but if you would accept,' he added, somewhat hesitatingly, as he put his hand to his pocket-book. 
               "Alvah drew instantly back, and again his fine face flushed. But his dark eye the next moment swam in tears, and every trace of pride gave way to the liveliest expression of gratitude. 'My father would not have me forget that I am a soldier's son, sir; but I am not ungrateful. I feel how kind and good you are to interest yourself so for me, but I am quite happy as I am, sir. The harder I work for my father, the more happiness it seems to give me, and the richer I feel; and he,-he will tell you himself how cheerful he is, and always satisfied with what I can do for him.' 
               "The old man had again bent his head over the trembling hands that were clasped upon his staff, and was probably invoking blessings on his son. 'Cheerful!' he said, as he again slowly lifted it, 'how should I be otherwise? Isn't my boy riches enough to make me satisfied?' The traveller was affected. A storm had begun to darken the chilly air, and the sleet was already finding its way through the broken roof. 
               "The accidents of life had made Mr. Courtney a man of the world, though with a feeling heart, and an enthusiasm of nature that they had been unable to subdue. Yet was he far more accustomed to its gay rounds of fashionable pleasure than to scenes of humble virtue. Till now, perhaps, he had scarcely dreamed of the existence of high feeling in lowly places; and he stood with his hand resting on the dark head of Alvah for some moments, in silence, and self-rebuked, conscious of having himself trifled with the life that a mere child thus made a state of duty and self-sacrifice. 
               "'Can I then do nothing for you?' he at last said, grasping the old man's hand with even more of reverence than pity. 
               "'You have done us much kindness in making a dull hour so cheery; and your good wishes have warmed our hearts. Somehow, the poor don't often find those that have time to care for them. You call yourself Courtney-I shall always remember the name. You are, I take it, among the wealthy of the land; and with your kind heart, I am glad of it, for there are many-God help them!-that are in great need.' 
               "And so they parted; and the rich and elegant Courtney, as he hastened along the city streets through the pelting storm, continued to muse upon the ills of life more deeply, perhaps, than he had done for years. The plain dignity and unselfish spirit of the old man-the proud humility of the son-repelling so earnestly the aid of charity, yet embracing cheerfully the most servile employment-his deep tenderness for his infirm parent-and the gracious manliness that pervaded his whole manner-could but stir the better feelings of a heart constituted as was our traveller's. For months after, the scene was upon his memory; often arraying the straw pallet, the scanty fuel, the miserable shelter, in contrast with his own wonted surroundings of gayety and splendor. But while these things were still vividly remembered, they had undergone a material change. The day after his friendly guest had bidden him farewell, and while Alvah was as usual absent, the quick ear of the blind soldier caught a sound as of a stealthy step near him; but it was only for a moment, and no voice responding to his questioning, he thought it perhaps a fancy. But the return of his son settled the doubt. A packet directed to Alvah lay on the old man's table. It contained a sealed letter, directed to a well-known mercantile house of the city, and a small roll of bills amounting to two hundred dollars. With these there were a few lines, briefly designating the manner in which it was to be applied. A better shelter was to be immediately secured. Alvah was to enter himself at once at one of the mercantile schools of the city, and pursue an earnest course of preparation for business so long as the accompanying sum availed. When this was exhausted, the enclosed letter was to be delivered as directed, by which a way would be opened up to him for further effort. The lines were without signature, but the hand was not a moment to be doubted. What a flood of joy it poured into that poor dwelling,-with what a sun-break of hope it expanded the heart of Alvah-new, and rich, and bright, and almost dazzling to his young sense as was the first rainbow to him who saw it,-I have no language to paint. Carry must guess all this; if she cannot, she is not worth telling a story to. I am going, at any rate, to leave our hero altogether for some years, in the full belief that he will fulfil his patron's wishes most faithfully. 
                
               "We have another young personage to introduce, residing in another city, and gliding through a home there of imposing magnificence. This was the daughter of Mr. Courtney, and his only child. She was at this time something older than yourself, Carry, and oh! how surpassingly fair. She was the very light of her father's eyes, and, hanging on his arm like some precious pearl, was early led into the paths of pleasure, and accustomed to the heated air of the gay saloon and the fashionable levee. That her young mind under such influences developed, as time rolled on, thoughts and feelings bearing little touch of earthly alloy, may be imputed perhaps to what she deemed the greatest of earthly misfortunes. This was the death of her mother-a mother," said Mr. Ives, in a lowered voice, "as gentle, as good, and lovely and loving, as your own, Carry; and while that patient and saintlike parent lingered on with a slow wasting illness, Isabel, who was then twelve years old, rarely left her bedside. There, in that dying-room, she gathered lessons that were sealed for ever on her young heart. Her father, long mourning his loss with a true but unsanctified sorrow, sought to forget it by returning to his gay pursuits; and though Isabel, gentle as summer breezes, and yielding as a reed to the impulse of those she loved, followed him through the giddy maze, yet did she still remain free from the taint of vanity or the thraldom of heartless habit. As she thus grew up, with all the beauty of the spring-flower and all its purity, well might her father tremble for every breeze that passed over her. 
               "A friend of Mr. Courtney, with an invalid daughter of Isabel's age, was taking her to one of those fashionable watering-places where health and pleasure are both sought (and often equally vainly) with such avidity. The summer heats had perhaps paled Isabel's cheek a little, and Mr. Courtney wished her to accompany them. With her young feet just touching the threshold of womanhood (for she was yet scarcely fifteen), she was borne for the first time from beneath his protecting wing, and found herself on her arrival amid a motley crowd, where there was much for melancholy and moralizing note. Such a place presents many strong contrasts-the buoyancy of health with the languor of disease; the hollow cough with the laugh of revelry; the tottering wreck of mortality with the gay votary of pleasure; the listless who come there to kill time; and the dying who come there to gain time, and struggle to add yet a few more days to those surely numbered. Isabel watched the various personages-the fair, the deformed, the gay, the sick and suffering, as they passed before her, with the tenderest sympathy-a joy for the one, a sorrow for the other; but her attention was particularly drawn, on entering the common sitting-room the morning after her arrival, to a blind old man who sat alone, apparently unnoticed. 
               "To Isabel, his sightless eyes, his palsied limbs, and the white locks so thinly scattered over the pallid temples, would have been sufficient appeal; but reverence mingled with compassion as she marked the benignant expression that still pervaded a face of suffering. Immediately around him a group of ladies were indulging a vein of levity that struck discordantly on her heart. She felt that the presence of unfortunate age should impose something like restraint; and involuntarily drawing nearer the unheeded old man, was half resolved to address him. Her natural timidity, however, still withheld her, till she was at length called by one of the hoyden group to partake of some strawberries. The irresolute expression of her countenance was at once gone. 
               "'I will beg some,' she said, presenting her work-basket, with a smile of the softest grace, 'for this old gentleman;' and she now turned back to him without embarrassment. 
               "'Will you accept some strawberries, sir?' The dying, melting tones of the Eolian harp are not softer than was Isabel's voice. Well might it reach the old man's heart. 'Heaven bless you, young lady,' he said, a smile brightening his face as a sunbeam might some old ruin, 'for I know that you are young. Ah! this little hand!' he continued, feeling the fingers which the smiling girl had laid in his as he spoke; 'may it always be as open as now, if not so fair.' 
               "With the first sound of Isabel's voice, an elegant but youthful stranger who had stood reading a newspaper with his back towards her, turned suddenly round; and when, blushing with pleasure, she at last turned her eyes from the old man, they encountered his, fixed upon her with a gaze of mingled admiration and surprise. Confused, and blushing yet more deeply, Isabel initinctively retreated, and drawing with her some of the group she had before avoided, mingled with their triflings. She had left her basket in the lap of the old man; but the youthful reader, whose brilliant gaze had so much confused her, soon after approached with it. Most gracefully presenting it, he said, 'The blind old man you have so kindly noticed is my father; accept my thanks for your attention, with his blessing.' Turning back then to the old man, he addressed him in a tone of respectful tenderness: 'I told you, I believe, sir, that I had found less crowded lodgings. I will attend you thither whenever you feel able to walk.' The aged invalid rose, and leaning on the arm of the young man, they left the hotel. 
               "'Yet they are to be temporary sojourners here, it seems,' thought Isabel, as the words to which she had listened with an involuntary interest seemed lingering on her ear; and a quick pleasure, of which perhaps she was unconscious, again crimsoned her cheek at the thought. They met the next morning at the spring, and again and again they met. And now, dear Carry, we have fairly got some lovers-and such lovers! Why, it was to them as if the whole earth had taken an entire new hue. The past had become to them as a dim and tedious dream. These meetings, these little daily meetings, were their all of remembered existence. They had found a new and brighter life, like that of the chrysalis when it first 'sails on new wings through the summer air.' Yet a brief sentence or two was all that had passed between them. They were in truth strangers; they knew nothing of each other beyond the limits of some three short days; they were ignorant even of each other's name. Were not all this a common thing in the history of lovers, it would be very silly, Carry; but no one could have looked upon our young lovers without a feeling of pleasant interest. So young, so trustful, so exceedingly happy! What need was there to them of language? Every glance of the dark brilliant eye betokened pleasure at Isabel's approach, while an expression, that not even their long silken lashes could wholly veil, lit up her own soft orbs with a new radiance tender and pure as the smile of an infant. Yet the failing health of the feeble old man, whom his son daily attended to the spring, afforded them an occasion for the interchange of a few words. The respectful pity which his appearance stirred in the heart of Isabel got the better of her reserve, and she sometimes ventured a timid inquiry respecting the aged invalid. There are a thousand nameless attentions to the sick or feeble, too trifling for detail, but that come to the sufferer as the imperceptible breeze to the leaf; and such a gift of ministry was peculiar to Isabel. Her voice, her step, her lightest movement, were recognized at once by the discriminating ear of the old man. He knew the hand that so often performed kind offices in his behalf. 
               "But the waters he drank afforded him no relief. Other and sweeter waters were wanting to the worn spirit, and to these he was hastening. Isabel at last met the father and son no longer, and the interest that had seemed to pervade all things around her, at once faded out. Three or four days passed, and her attendance on the young friend she had accompanied became a penance. A walk was proposed; and, weary of herself, she gladly became one of the party. Their path took them within view of the village cemetery, and Isabel's eye was arrested by a funeral procession. The sombre train was returning, for the duties were completed; but there was one who yet lingered, and with folded arms stood leaning over the new-filled grave. Could it be? Yes, it was the youthful stranger! and Isabel's fast throbbing heart comprehended the sorrow that bowed him down over that dust. The party passed on, gay, careless, and mirthful; but to the absorbed Isabel the merriest sally was an idle sound. Scarcely did she heed her own steps; and the hundred trifles that drew the ready interest of the laughing and loitering party, were to her a weariness. 
               "The day had closed ere they were ready to return, and soft and clear the moon and stars were rising with a tender glory that but deepened her emotions. They were again within view of the cemetery. Was the solitary mourner yet lingering among its solemn shadows? No-he had just closed its gate, and with a slow step was returning to the village. Their paths intersected. Isabel had taken the arm of her invalid friend, and had fallen somewhat behind her party. The young man bowed, and Isabel involuntarily paused; for his manner seemed to claim a moment's hearing. 'Pardon me,' he said, taking her passive hand with profound respect, 'the hour of grief has peculiar privilege. You are doubtless aware that my poor father suffers no longer. To-morrow I leave; yet, ere I go, permit me to thank you (though I know not by what name) for the gentle interest in his sufferings with which you soothed almost his last hours; for the attentions that were as balm to his aged heart. Should the cup of affliction be ever yours, may some spirit like your own temper its bitterness; may some being unspeakably fair and lovely-oh! lovely only as yourself,-be at your pillow.' Isabel could not reply. She even felt relieved when the sorrowful but impassioned mourner, turning almost abruptly from her, had disappeared. 
               "The raillery of her friend upon the romance of the scene met no sympathy from her. She reached her apartment at length, with her soft cheek pale from emotion. But a welcome surprise gave some relief to her feelings. Her father was waiting to fold her to his embrace. And little did he deem, while she sobbed and trembled on his bosom, that the young heart had other emotions than when, so few days since, she gave him her parting kiss. He wondered a little at her impatience to leave; and when she avowed herself perfectly well, looked at her now flushed cheek and restless eye somewhat scrutinizingly. But Mr. Courtney was little versed in the mysteries of young hearts, and still he dreamed of no riflers touching the blossom's core that had hitherto exhaled its fragrance for him alone. He was but too glad to bear her back to his home; and early the following morning Isabel had completed her adieus, and stood by his side equipped for departure. As her father handed her into the carriage, he stopped a moment to speak with an acquaintance. A young man, whose saddened air accorded well with the mourning weeds he wore, and who was passing at the moment, suddenly paused, his whole countenance lighted up with pleasure; and grasping Mr. Courtney's hand, he called him eagerly by name, exclaiming. 'My benefactor! my dear, my generous benefactor!' 
               "Mr. Courtney looked at the handsome and earnest speaker with undisguised surprise: 'Upon my word, young man,' he said, with his usually bland smile, 'I know of no one who can give me so flattering a title.' 
               "'Ah,' said the stranger, whose countenance and voice were but too familiar to the trembling Isabel, 'years have doubtless changed me. I am Alvah Hamilton, the soldier's son, whom, seven years ago, you rescued from extreme poverty.' 
               "'You mean, my young friend,' said Mr. Courtney, shaking his hand with the most heartfelt pleasure, 'you mean the scornful boy I would have rescued but for his intolerable pride.' 
               "'Oh! sir, would you attempt evasion now? Rather let me tell you,-have you no interest in hearing what have been the fruits of your goodness?' 
               "'Assuredly. I shall gladly listen to any thing in which you are concerned, dear Alvah.' 
               "'Still, as ever, so kind. I need hardly say the directions given with your bounty were scrupulously obeyed. Oh! what a new life it was to me. My poor father comfortably provided for, and myself, with incitement to diligence that gratitude and duty could give, progressing rapidly in a course that was opening out before me a sphere of effort. And the letter,-it did, indeed, when the time came for delivering it, secure me a place. I was received at once by the firm to which you had so trustingly recommended me; and with wages sufficient for my father's needs, I was fortunate enough to please my employers. Step by step I advanced, till I became their first clerk. For the first time since I entered their service, I left it a few days since, at the call of a higher duty-now, alas! fulfilled. I am now alone. My father, blessing your name to the last, is removed beyond my care; and now my first exertions shall be to discharge the pecuniary part of the obligation I owe you.' 
                
               "'You owe me nothing,' said Mr. Courtney with great earnestness; 'I am in debt to you, my dear fellow, for the very highest pleasure I have ever known. Any mention again of obligation on your part shall be set down as a penal offence. But tell me; when did you lose your venerable father?' 
               "Alvah briefly told the melancholy particulars. Once more Mr. Courtney pressed his hand with warmth. 'Farewell, dearest Alvah. My carriage has been some time in waiting. Most sincerely do I rejoice in your prosperity; and remember, you may always command my friendship.' 
               "Alvah continued looking wistfully after his friend for some moments, with a feeling of intense gratitude; but the form of Isabel had not been visible. At the first glance on his approach she had shrunk back in the carriage, and had been an unseen auditor of what had passed. But the excitable and highly gratified Courtney is now pouring upon her ear, or rather her heart, a detail little calculated to stop its throbbing pulses, and Alvah Hamilton is fully known to her. His history, his character, his praises, every word is graven on her heart, sanctifying, as it were, the image that accident had already shrined there-an image never to be effaced. 
               "Years passed away, and from that moment not a single event occurred to recall his memory; but to her it was unfading. The young passion of a week became an imperishable attachment, too deep to leave any trace on the surface of her character, but treasured like some high and holy principle. She was far too lovely to remain unsought, and Mr. Courtney grew at last surprised at her repeated and decided rejection of what the world calls 'splendid offers.' As time wore on, he expostulated, he entreated, he taxed her with perverseness. She deprecated his anger with matchless gentleness; his every other wish was to her a law, but in this she remained immovable. Objects of deep anxiety at last claimed the father's attention. Mr. Courtney was not only a generous man, but a prodigal one. His love of pleasure, his elegant tastes, his reckless expenditures, his entire disregard of gain, had gradually wasted an estate that was once almost princely; and from the most thoughtless security, Mr. Courtney was at length driven to 'look into his affairs.' 
               "It was too late. The ground had been long hollowed out on which he stood: his collected resources were insufficient to obviate the fall. Debt lay at last like an incubus on the favorite city residence upon which he had bestowed every embellishment that taste could suggest or the skill of the artificer execute. Poor Courtney! how stunning to his whole being was such a wreck! But for one sustaining influence, his nature must have been wrecked even more painfully than his fortune. Isabel's virtues gleamed out only the more brightly for the darkness that surrounded her. Her deepened tenderness was to him as the clasping vine that keeps the broken column from falling; her unclouded cheerfulness, her quiet fortitude, lessened even the aspect of the evil. Their house was on sale, with its marble adornments, its costly pictures; and the magnificent furniture stood arranged and ticketed for purchasers at public outcry. The day of sale came-a trying hour it was even to Isabel, for she felt every pang that went over the face of her father. The sale had proceeded some hours, when a new bidder appeared in the crowd. His travelling dress bore the marks of a hurried route, and his manner indicated something of a peculiar solicitude. This was at length dissipated on finding the house yet unsold. It was, however, in the phrase of the crier, about going; and, as usual in such cases, at a great sacrifice. The young stranger raised the bid several times, and had at last the satisfaction of finding himself the last and best bidder. Unable to look upon the scene, Mr. Courtney had retired to an inner room, to which the few plain articles he had reserved had been removed, and was striving to gain strength from the spirit of his child. 
               "The young purchaser stood suddenly before him. 'Alvah! My dear Alvah!' For some moments he could utter no more. See,' at last he said, 'the mutations of life. You come to me, dear Alvah, when I have not a home to welcome you to!' 
               "'Heaven be praised!' said the young man, grasping Mr. Courtney's hand, while his whole face glowed with delight; 'Heaven be praised! we meet under no such evil. Years ago your own munificent hand averted it.' 
               "'You talk in riddles, my young friend.' 
               "'I know I seem to, but I will strive to give you a business explanation. Fourteen years ago you placed in my hands a sum that laid the foundation of my fortune, and to-day I am able to advance the purchase-money for your residence, which I have just bidden off, not for myself, but my benefactor. Since the time of our brief meeting, I have been a partner in the same prosperous house where I had been so long a clerk. I then spoke to you of my debt, but you permitted me no hearing. I was still willing to avail myself of the amount for a time. I considered it, however, no longer as a loan, but a trust. I assigned it, in thought, as a share in the dividends of the house. A few years of more than common profits, which I yearly added to it, made it not an inconsiderable one. More than once I ventured to invest it in a speculation of some hazard, that still proved singularly fortunate; and there is now little to add to it to meet the amount of my bid. Accident brought to my knowledge the sale of today, and I lost no time in hastening hither. And now, will you not suffer me again to call you my benefactor, when I owe you, in addition to a life's competence, a happiness no wealth could purchase?' 
               "Tears rolled over Mr. Courtney's face. The world of gayety and pleasure, that had been his world, seemed beneath his feet; but he was unable to reply. No words, however, would have reached the ear of Alvah. His eye had caught a picture that hung in the room, and thought, feeling, sense, were all and instantly locked up in the gaze. Isabel, at the announcement of the visitant, had availed herself of the moment to seek once more what had been her own room, for the indulgence of tears she had long restrained; but her picture, taken soon after her meeting with Alvah, seemed to him like a thing of life. The artist had, indeed, been most faithful in every lineament of the lovely original. Just so she looked when Alvah first saw her offering her soft hand to his father's sightless touch; just so the blue eyes beamed, and the lips parted with a happy smile; and so the auburn hair lay in golden light upon her white brow and strayed over her snowy neck. 
               "'Tell me,' he at last exclaimed, turning to Mr. Courtney, 'whose is this picture?' 
               "''Tis the likeness of my only child,' said Mr. Courtney, finding relief from his own emotions in the sudden vehemence of Alvah's manner; 'her, who in this troubled season has been my only comforter.' 
               "'Your child's? Gracious Heaven! what new excitement awaits me!' 
               "'And why this excitement at all, Alvah? I, too, am stunned with new surprises. Have you ever seen or known my beloved Isabel?' 
               "'Seen her? known her? Yes, as a ministering angel hovering around my dying father-never to be forgotten.' 
               "Mr. Courtney calmly asked a few brief questions, and the whole history of Isabel's heart was revealed to him. 'Tell me truly, Alvah Hamilton: you who have been so much truer to me than I have been to myself,-if this slight knowledge of my child, this memory of a few days' communion, has been blent with a sentiment of tenderness?' 
               "'Ah! sir,'-and Alvah's dark eye was lifted to his friend's with an expression of passionate hope-'have I not, for years of utter hopelessness, still turned with devotion to her image, from business, and care, and weariness, and allurements, and all that could dim or deaden it?' 
               "Mr. Courtney rose and went in search of his child. When he returned, with the trembling girl on his arm, she had learned the changes and hopes that the half hour had unfolded. Her father placed her hand in that of her lover. 
               "'Ye are worthy of each other,' he said; and turning tearfully from them, he sought the sanctuary of his chamber, to pour out his deep thanksgivings to Him whose promise he had thus so fully realized: 'Cast your bread upon the waters, and ye shall find it after many days.'" 
             
             
                
               THE YOUNG PHYSICIAN. 
               OUR friend Delancey was not of a temperament to listen to or to tell long stories, but we had him one morning drawn into one almost unconsciously. Carry was repeating that line from Goldsmith's exquisite ballad which has long afforded a text to the caviller at sentiment- 
                     "And what is friendship but a name!"
                   "A name-a name," repeated Carry, with an iteration half sung, half said, that seemed at last to stir some chord in our guest's interest. 
               "A name often enough, no doubt, little one," said he, drawing her towards him; "but you must not let that get a place in your young heart, Carry, as a general truth. Upon my word," he added, lifting a most animated countenance to the graver circle by which he was surrounded, "I look upon friendship as the very richest and healthiest sweetener of our mortal lives. Apart from the present enjoyment I am drawing from it, I look back to it as the one influence that for me shed upon the past its warmest radiance. I had a boy-friend, and one indeed, in my after-life, that was as dear to me as my own soul, and to whom I owe all of good there is about me. In fact, friends, I must tell you something of this, though 'twill lead me into a shocking long story; and what is worse, I shall be myself the hero,-but you are all admirable listeners. Of my boyhood's favorite," he continued, a dash of sadness passing over his face, "you that had part in our famous juvenile 'Fourth' must, I think, have some recollection. Ned Smith he was called, and if you observed him at all you cannot have forgotten him. To this day I often muse over the boyish passages that brought us to be such friends. The first sight I had of him seems to me even now as if it was but yesterday. In the grammar school where my father had placed me, there were few boys I liked; I should rather say, that I could tolerate. Schoolboys take much of their bearing and tone of principle from the teacher; and ours was a narrow-souled pedant. He had won and kept his place by the most servile obsequiousness to his more wealthy patrons, of which distinguished number was my father; and I was of course one of the especially privileged. But it did not serve him to win my golden opinions. I was certainly a great scapegrace, but I had not been able wholly to escape the influence of my mother-one of those women that belong to heaven, but having sacred duties to fulfil here, are left to us for a season,-and I had strong cravings for some better companionship than any of my boyish acquaintances afforded. 
               "On entering school one morning, with a feeling of distaste that made me a not unfrequent laggard, my eye rested on a new face at one of the desks. Who was he? No one knew or seemed to care to know. He was not one to awaken the interest of the young aristocracy: yet my attention was rivetted to him at a glance. His dress was certainly inferior-even coarse; and he had evidently none of the appliances that betoken wealth. But he was handsome-singularly so; and with a face so intellectual in every line, it ought to have distinguished him any where. In short, it was Ned Smith; and if you remember him at all, you can but recall the thoughtful eye, the clear high brow, the look of genius, of energy, of power, of one whose motto would be 'Excelsior' through life. He became known in the school as the son of a poor widow who procured a livelihood by humble labor; and from his entrance he was treated not only with neglect, but occasional insolence-a prerogative of wealth in schools generally; the veriest urchin that has got upon the eminence of a few costly baubles, or that wears a better coat than his fellow, lording it over him with impunity. For a while Ned Smith received no other notice than a frequent sally of merriment at his rudimental lessons; for, poor fellow! intellectual as he looked, his scholastic privileges had been of the scantiest. He went through his mortifying exercises, however, with a voice that never faltered, and but for the sudden crimson at times of his naturally pale cheek, and the brief contraction of a brow singularly elevated and serene, one might have thought him unconscious of the inequality. But this distance lessened-lessened rapidly. The teacher himself evinced little interest in the progress of one so humble. But he had a thirst for knowledge that required little extraneous aid-a spirit, too, that sustained itself; and his brilliant intellect pierced its way through the intricacies of study like a stream of light. Steadily as earnestly he went forward, bringing himself up quietly to the side of many who were most discouragingly in advance of him, and then as quietly outstripping them. This piqued them into absolute ill-will, and they lost no occasion of bestowing upon him something of contumely or derision. Formerly, at recess hours, he had been suffered to remain unnoticed; now they broke in upon his study, and gathered around him to harass and annoy him. Ned bore it with inflexible patience-always in silence. The grossest taunt provoked no other reply than an expression of deep scorn, which he sometimes turned for a moment's space on his tormentors. 
               "I had at first made him some advances of very sincere friendliness, but he met them, I fancied, rather coldly, and there was little in our habits or pursuits to bring us together. I was as incorrigibly idle as he was indefatigably diligent, and had always myself some freak of mischief or amusement on hand, in which I instinctively perceived he was not to be won as a coadjutor. But my feelings were at last thoroughly roused by seeing the unoffending boy so borne down upon by my classmates. With all his immobility of feature, I had more than once seen his eyes swimming in tears which he did not suffer to fall. Proud he evidently was, and that he was no coward his every glance was sufficient assurance; but he was poor, friendless. I could bear it no longer. I had one day listened to the jeers of a group that were gathered around him, till my young veins boiled. 'For shame, boys,' said I, 'be silent. Why do you make one the target of all your spleen? and Edward above all, who never troubles any of you?' 
               "'Bravo!' they replied; 'that's right, Charles Delancey; that's right! the poor boy should have a champion. He that has no spirit himself needs a defender.' 
               "'Time improved like his would be badly sacrificed in noticing your bad wit; but, by heavens!' said I" (and Delancey laughed at finding himself in feeling again a boy, and speaking as he was with the same kindling eye and emphasis that probably marked his manner at that long gone by moment), "'by heavens,' exclaimed I, assuming something of a threatening attitude, 'he shall have a champion. The first one that dares insult him again in my hearing shall have an answer that he will feel.' I shall never forget the expression of his deep, quiet eye, as he lifted it to mine; but he did not speak. Further collision with my schoolmates was prevented by the entrance of the teacher; but the efficacy of my threats was speedily demonstrated. 
               "From position or assumption, I had acquired an ascendency among them that gave my words force. The isolated boy was insulted no longer. They even strove from that time to press him into their pastimes; but as they had failed in provoking a retort to their malice, their civilities were received as coldly. Nor were my own earnest and repeated challenges to my favorite games, notwithstanding my late championship, at all more successful; and I was not a little vexed at his steadfast though gentle refusals. I was still as far as ever from his friendship, of which I had begun to feel a little emulous. What a heartless fellow he must be, after all! thought I; and again my interest in him subsided, and I left him once more with as little of notice as he had from others. 
                
               "It chanced one morning that I entered school immediately after him. The teacher, standing in an attitude of rage, was fiercely questioning him. 'Do you know any thing of this?' pointing to a huge caricature of himself that was appended to his chair. The quick eye of Edward glanced over it with a look of astonishment that could not be feigned, and answering quietly in the negative, he passed on to his seat. The inquiry was repeated to all as they were severally entering, but all alike ignored the offence. 
               "The poor pedagogue paced the floor in a fury of excitement. He had some strongly marked peculiarities of both person and manner, and the caricaturist, while he had faithfully preserved the fidelity of the likeness, had thrown these into the broadest relief; giving to the whole a deepened but still familiar coloring of the ridiculous, which the significant glances and smothered laughter of the school most mortifyingly attested. To me he had said, 'I need scarcely ask you, Charles, for you of course are above any thing of the kind;' an imputed grace which I heard with rather a burning cheek, and I bent over my books with unwonted diligence. Edward had composedly resumed his, and had evidently little part in the sensation that had been so vividly stirred. Meantime a richly ornamented case, which, on taking his seat, he had laid beside him, was picked up by a young idler at his side, who began very unceremoniously to examine its contents. They consisted of paints and pencils, with some half-drawn lines of a sketch evidently intended for the caricature in question. They caught the eye of the teacher, and, snatching them from the boy, he demanded whose they were. 
               "'Ned Smith's,' was the reply; and ere poor Edward comprehended the cause of his sudden implication, he was hurled from his seat with a grasp of iron. 
               "'So!' exclaimed the master, in a paroxysm of rage, 'you have betrayed yourself with all your falsehood. What have you to say now, sir? Your sanctity will hardly controvert these proofs.' 
               "'That case, sir,' said Edward, respectfully but firmly, 'is not mine; it came into my hands by a mere chance.' 
                
               "'And whose, then, is it?' Edward was silent. 
               "'Answer me!-or is it rather a hard problem?' he asked, fixing his eye with a bitter sneer on the manly and truthful face. And yet a shade of perplexity was gathering upon it, and a struggle, almost legible upon the clear features, as if the love of truth was strongly combated by some almost equally prevailing sentiment. He quickly flung off the embarrassment, however, and stood the next moment with a cleared brow, like one that in his own strength had freed himself from a vile shackle. Lifting an eye, determined as it was, calm to the master's, he said, 
               "'If I do know, I will not betray him.' 
               "'Umph! I thought as much. Chivalrous-remarkably so! But, sir, you must discover the offender, or take the penalty of the offence. Your shameful connivance, at all events, merits it.' 
               "'You will do with me what you please, sir,' said Edward; 'I have not connived, but I will expose no one.' 
               "'We will see, my cool fellow,' said the teacher, deliberately trying the flexure of the rod he held (in those days a common sceptre of pedagogue authority, and wont to be used in his hand with a terrible severity). 'Take off your coat, sir!' The sudden and deep flush that mantled Edward's cheek, told that he felt all the degradation of the impending punishment; but he instantly obeyed, and stood with uplifted brow, looking in the master's face with a serious but undismayed eye. 
               "Meanwhile I had not remained an unmoved spectator. I am afraid I shall lose caste, even at this remote date, by acknowledging myself the culprit, but I see no way of escape. I had an unlucky talent for sketching, and could not resist the temptation of making it subservient to my idle malice. Worse than idle it had proved in its results; and I felt the veins in my forehead swelling with pain, while Edward stood so calm. I was indeed fast losing all pretensions to manhood in my own eyes, and I think now, despite some occasional valorous manifestations, that I must have been something of a coward. Had my father suspected such a fact, he would have well nigh drained all my veins to get at the drop of recreant blood; but it was him, not the master, that I feared. His displeasure indeed, when serious, was very terrible to me; he was a great stickler for authority and all due observances; and I had no doubt he would at once be referred to by the aggrieved but deferential potentate. But when the threatening rod was at last lifted, though I could not prevent the first degrading stroke, I sprung eagerly, almost wildly forward. 
               "'Stay!' I exclaimed, grasping the master's arm not the most gently; 'Edward Smith is innocent; he of all the school is above any thing wrong. That case is mine-the scholars, more shame for them! knew it as well as he did. He picked it up this morning as he passed me at ball on the play-ground, where I had dropped it. He called me to come and take it, but I would not at that moment leave my sport. I should have owned it sooner, but I didn't think you'd punish Ned for not turning informer; and you know, sir, he don't tell falsehoods.' 
               "I trembled with my own eagerness. A most unwelcome explanation it evidently was. The master had been but too well pleased that the example he felt himself called on to make, had fallen on one so nameless. I am ashamed to say, even now, for the sake of the craft, that I escaped with impunity. I was confusedly remanded to my seat, that time might be taken to deliberate on my punishnent; and Edward, putting on his coat in silence, as the heightened color faded from his pale cheek, was suffered to return to his without an atoning word. But all the bitter feelings I had were now effectually stirred. I looked at him, as he resumed his books with his usual quietude, with a sense of immeasurable inferiority. A worthier ambition than I had long known took hold of me. If I cannot prevail with him to take part in my pursuits, thought I, I will join him in his. From that moment I found ways and means of being almost constantly at his side. I interested myself in his studies. I gave him all the aid my better advantages ought so fully to enable me; and after all, he did not owe so much of benefit to me as I did to him. What had been to me, in many an instance, but a mere verbal rule, however familiar, became, from the ready interpretation pretation his lucid mind flung on it, as I helped him con it, a clear principle in my own. His patient research not unfrequently aided me in some reference rendered necessary by my own lessons; and when unable to do this, the interest he evinced in what he saw was a difficulty or a labor to me, quickened my efforts. I had won him at last to like me. I had conquered his proud shyness; and what a depth of heart as well as mind I now found in him-rich, tender, faithful, and self-sacrificing. Devoted as he was to his books, his reserve had been drawn around him only as a shield from the cold neglect which he well knew was incident to his position; and now that I had at last made my way through it to his heart's springs, they gushed forth to meet me. We became the closest of associates. I took him home with me to my father's house. I had told my mother about him, dilating upon his merits. I had even ventured to tell her, in my solicitude to make the most of my fair report, of my own misdemeanor. How anxiously did I watch her gentle eye as I proudly presented him. How glad did the soft approving light that shone in it make me, as she welcomed him. I might well leave him then to himself to make an interest in her feelings; and she, with that maternal accent, that smile of angel goodness she could bestow, that kindness and encouragement that was part of herself,-she took him into my father's library, and questioned him as to what he had read; put into his hands books that, though seemingly above his years and opportunities, she found with a woman's tact he was able to appreciate. And he did appreciate them. I need only say that I, even I learned from his readings, with their sweet silvery tones, so clear, so fervid, so impressive in their renderings, a taste for our best authors that I never lost. And Edward-poor fellow! all unused as he was to such golden privilege, how he did luxuriate in it, while my mother would sit and watch the glow of his fine countenance with an almost equal delight. 
               "Alas! that the beautiful in life as in nature is always so evanescent. My father-peace to his ashes!-he wore more than one honorable scar attesting the part he had borne in the great strife for liberty and equality; but he no more believed that all men were made equal than the haughtiest autocrat of all the Russian dynasties. Were I some score of years younger I should perhaps blush for my irreverence, but the time for such gracious tintings has gone by. My father was not the first nor the last man cherishing a principle upon a large scale, that would be altogether inconvenient to bring into practice. I had all this while an instinctive dread of the chill he was to fling upon this pleasant companionship, but for some time he scarcely noticed it. 
               "Edward shrunk a little at first from his habitually haughty aspect, but was reassured by finding himself unnoticed by him; and my mother's manner invariably afforded every possible encouragement to his visits. 'Let us see you often, if only for Charles' sake,' she would say, flinging over me a glance of mingled tenderness and reproach that I can feel even now; 'you are fond of books, and so much better improve the privilege than my idle boy, who, I am afraid, loves nothing but mischief.' 
               "She did not, I hope, believe me half the recreant her words implied-what chiding mother does of her boy?-but she knew my habits were not those of my young friend; and, apart from her still growing interest in him, was glad of an intimacy that might incite me to emulation. But Edward had an instinctive delicacy of feeling that made him shrink from becoming a frequent guest. My own social advances, however, were not to be eluded. I made myself a familiar comer and goer at his own home. An humble one it was, and Edward's manner at times evidenced painfully his sense of the disparity. But his love for me overcame its bitterness, or rather banished its remembrance. His mother was a strong-minded English woman. Her husband had died on shipboard in their passage to the States; and like hundreds of other women in our great cities, without friend or kindred, she had been long accustomed to that self-reliance which, with the harsh atmosphere of poverty calling it out, chills the softer graces while it strengthens the stronger virtues of the character. She was devoted to Edward, who was her only child, and favored him with a self-sacrificing tenderness under which his fine nature was rather pained than gratified; and he often deprecated, though with the most affectionate gentleness, the indulgences for which the delicacy of his earlier childhood still afforded her a pretext. 
               "But strongly contrasted as was every circumstance of his home with my own, I spent many happy hours there. Edward had become necessary to me. I had begun a new course of mental diligence, and he sustained me in it. We had always some pleasant interest on hand, profitable to both; and from these visits I found it more easy to draw him back again to my own home. My father's attention, however, was at last arrested. Edward and myself were tying up some of my mother's flowers, when he called me to him. 
               "'Who is this boy I see here with you so often? You seem to have contracted a great intimacy with him!' 
               "It was a question I had long anticipated. 'He is one of Mr. A--'s scholars.' 
               "That is no answer; who is he, I ask,-that is, who or what is his family?' 
               "My mother came to my relief. 'His name is Smith. He is the only son of his mother, and she a widow.' 
               "Even the simple scriptural phrase, in its touching comprehensiveness, was lost upon my father. 'You are with him sometimes, I understand, at his own home: where may this be?' The name of the obscure alley on which my friend lived was any thing but easy for me to utter. 
               "'This intimacy,' said my father, 'must be broken up, and at once. I trust your mother will see to it. Boys' intimacies are generally ill chosen, as they are always ill judged.' 
               "'But, my dear sir,' said my gentle mother, 'this interesting boy seems worthy of confidence. Our son, indeed, owes him all the kindness he has shown him; he was not long since subjected to great indignity at school for Charles' sake.' 
               "'Give him money, then,' said my father. 
               "Money to Edward in place of kindness! I thought of Sterne's story of the monk and the pinch of snuff, and made an application of it not extremely respectful to my dignified parent. It was an unlucky time for the long-delayed outbreak. It was Edward's last day at school. I knew, without his telling me, that his mother's stinted means was the cause, and had been for hours revolving in my mind how this should be obviated. My mother would manage it, but the opportunity of speaking to her for which I had impatiently waited had been still wanting. And now,-what followed was more than I could bear. Edward, having finished the present task, entered for further direction; and my father, saying, 'I will put an end to this at once,' turned to him himself with an eye of colder severity even than his words. 'Have you any especial claims upon my son, young boy, that we see you with him so often?' 
               "'Sir!' 
               "My father repeated the words, adding, 'if not, he will hereafter dispense with your visits.' 
               "The color flashed for a moment over Edward's face, and then faded even from his very lips. He stood for a brief space almost rigidly, looking intently at my father; and then the singular strength of his young spirit, so often evidenced, came to his aid. 
               "'I am sorry, sir, my coming here with Charles has offended you. Please believe me that I did not know it.' 
               "My mother always drew strength from her sense of justice. 'Edward is no intruder,' she said, 'he came not only at Charles' urging, but mine.' 
               "'But I can come no more,' said Edward, turning his eye, that was now swimming in tears, with an expression of the tenderest sorrow to my mother; 'but I shall never forget your kindness-never, never! Don't cry, Charles'-(I was in truth sobbing most unrestrainedly)-'Good bye!' he said, reaching me his hand, 'dear Charles; I loved you so well; but parting would have come some time, and I shall have your goodness to think of all my life.' And Edward was gone-turned fairly out of doors! I-believe even my father was struck for the moment with the manly yet touching simplicity with which he went through the mortifying dismissal, intact from all humiliation. 
                
               "It was some days ere my mother's look was again cheerful, and all the interest of my daily pursuits seemed to have been suddenly put out. The law of obedience had not so strong a hold upon me but I should have followed Edward, however forbidden; but I knew him too well to hope, even if the vile wound could be healed, that he would be willing to see me without my father's sanction. 
               "But a sudden stir in the city, that came at this time like the first heavings of an earthquake, made me forget every thing but my solicitude for his safety. It was the year '93-the season of the pestilence that then swept the doomed city of some thousands of its inhabitants. I started, without seeing my mother, whom the fearful panic had not yet reached, to find my friend. Physicians were hurrying in every direction through the rapidly sickening populace. In passing a small shop nearer than the house of Mrs. Smith, I remembered Edward had told me he was promised a place there as soon as he should leave school; and I went in to inquire for him. He had been summoned home to attend his stricken mother! While I heard this, another shopman brought yet further news: she was dead! And Edward? He had been vainly seeking a physician, and in almost frenzied agony, arrived too late for the parting breath. While I stood almost transfixed with emotion, my father clutched my arm-'Good God! Charles, where have you been idling? I have been looking for you every where. The family are getting in readiness to leave the city. Death seems to be ravaging it. There's a hearse in every street, Come with me instantly.' 
               "'Oh! let me then go for Edward, dear father; let us take him with us. His mother is already dead, and he has no friend.' 
               "'Are you mad!' said my father; 'if you are so reckless for yourself, rash boy, would you take the contagion home to your mother?' 
               "The question was unanswerable. I yielded with an almost breaking heart, and was the next hour borne away from the tainted atmosphere. My mother shared my feelings in no light degree, and as she bent her head over her own weeping boy, she was doubtless commending the bereaved and desolate Edward to Him who had loosed the seals of the pestilence. Those seals were at length reclosed; the breath of winter passed with purifying influence over the depopulated streets, and the scattered survivors returned to their deserted habitations. Was Edward among the living? was the first inquiry of my heart as the city spires again met my musing gaze. And my tender mother, too, still shared the eager and painful interest. We made all possible research. Every thing was changed. The home of thousands had new occupants, and there was no clue by which to trace the living or the dead. We might have well guessed, from the peculiar desolation of its humble streets, that Edward was indeed no more; but it was a conviction hard to yield to. The mournful confirmation, however, came. My mother, with a melancholy interest in the many she had left that had gone down to the dust, taking me with her one day, strolled to the city burying-ground. We stood among the sleeping multitude, appalled by their numbers. We walked long and sadly through the silent dwellings that made up so wide a city. We talked of Edward-he had doubtless found a home there, and it was almost soothing to me to think, as the bitter recollection of our parting hour passed upon me, that he could no more meet the proud man's contumely.
                
               "As we thus spoke of him, a boy whom we had not noticed rose from among the graves and slowly passed us. What a strange and spectral figure it was! It needed no one to say, though still among the living, that the ghastly form had risen from the grasp of the pestilence. 'Poor fellow!' said my mother, 'he looks like one that has escaped from death to a life yet bitterer. How much more to be pitied than these quiet sleepers! But is it not possible,' she added, with a sudden thought, 'that this poor lad may know something of Edward? We are more likely to learn his fate from some boy of his own age and of his class than from any other.-Stay, my poor boy, and tell us in what part of the city you have been living.' 
               "The retreating figure turned his ghastly face towards us, and seemed for a moment to hesitate. 'Don't you know,' he said at last, in a voice so hollow it seemed to come from the dead, 'don't you know where the homeless live? I sleep here, for here are graves for pillows.' 
               "Tears streamed over my mother's face. 'Poor child!-and hundreds like you, I suppose, are left thus friendless and destitute. But have you ever known an orphan boy named Edward Smith?' 
               "Again the boy seemed to hesitate; his senses were without doubt bewildered by suffering. 'I am called Ned Smith,' he answered at length, 'but you don't know me, lady.' 
               'Alas! no,' replied my mother, looking with deep pity upon the poor questioner, whose yellow and matted hair formed a strong contrast to the rich dark locks that clustered round the brow of her son's friend-'you are not he whom we seek.' 
               "'You mean, perhaps,' said the boy, supporting his wasted frame, that seemed sinking with weakness, against a grave-stone, 'the son of the widow that once lived on -- Alley? If so, you seek vainly. Ask where the mother and son are, if there are any left on that lane of the poor to tell you.' 
               "'Alas!' said my mother, 'he is then dead! Poor, poor Edward!' 
               "There had been a look of intense anguish on the boy's face, though as he spoke he covered it with his meagre and bloodless hands, that was painful to witness: but my own grief absorbed the pity it claimed. I had flung myself on the ground weeping, and my mother herself was too deeply affected to offer me consolation. 
               "'You bear the same name,' she said at last, turning to the young informant, 'and are perhaps a relation. Can you tell us any particulars of his death, or where the mother and son, who I suppose lie together, are buried?' 
               "A visible shudder pervaded the boy's whole frame. 'Why do you ask, lady, about the poor? either the dead or the living? Who in this death-harvest tended their dying or followed their dead?' 
               "The boy's language, in addition to its thrilling hollowness of tone, seemed unnaturally strong; but though not the language of childhood, it was of misery. There was a strangeness indeed in his whole aspect-strange it would have been to one who had not witnessed what ravages the fingers of a mortal disease can make; but such haggard figures were not now unfrequent in the smitten city. We met them of every age-children whom one could scarcely recognize as such-wan with disease, wild from suffering, and their ghastly lineaments having no touch of young life. My mother looked without surprise upon the haggard young sufferer-his head bare, his garments squalid and tattered, his sunken eye and cheek telling not only of disease but famine: all were familiar to her eye, but her ready pity had not been exhausted by the previous claimants. The boy had again turned from us, but with a step his weakness seemed scarcely to allow. My mother detained him. 
               "'I fear I have distressed you with my questioning. You seem to have suffered greatly. But be hopeful, my poor child! God has still a care for you. And take this,' she added, extending him a handful of money; 'take it, not only for your need's sake, but for the sake of him we inquired for, and whom we dearly loved.' 
               "The poor fellow snatched it with avidity, kissing the bright coin as he clutched it with a gesture of most pitiable maniac joy. 
               "'Your Edward,' he cried, with a sudden eagerness of voice, 'was proud, but when did he ask day after day for bread?' The bitter anguish so thrillingly manifested had arrested even my tears. I had raised from my recumbent position. He looked at me for a moment with a wistful earnestness; his lips moved, but I could not catch the utterance. It seemed a blessing. He turned again to my mother, and snatching her hand, pressed it to his lips; and then, feeble as he was, as we all turned from the spot, he fairly fled before us. The hope of food had no doubt given the famished boy a preternatural strength. 
               "It was long ere I fully recovered from the grief I had sustained in the death of my early friend. Time, however, carries healing as well as blight in its course. It brought both to me. I was restored to gayety, but the fine chords that my intercourse with Edward Smith had awakened ceased to vibrate. Among all the associates of my subsequent years, there was no one with the wish or skill to reawaken their silenced melody. The foot of the hasty traveller throws mire and dirt into fountains that have been dug from the rock, and guided on in pure channels by a careful and interested hand; and so the common intercourse of life too often corrupts or impedes the better feelings that owe their birth and brightness to a holy friendship. 
               "I reached the morning of manhood-a morning to me unclouded with any thing to dim life's noblest ardor. I had family position-intellectual culture; but to this day I cannot look back upon this particular season without humiliation. I had fallen from my morally higher estate. I was unworthy to be the son of my mother-to have been the friend of Ned Smith. I was one among a club of profligate young men, by whose depraved contact every delicate shade of moral worth had been effaced that her blessed precepts, that his high-toned example, had called out. I had not lost my sense of honor or of principle, as I had learned to interpret the terms; but I had pursued the gay career of fashionable folly into which I had been early plunged by constitutional ardor, till I had unconsciously passed the verge of dissoluteness. I was not merely the spendthrift of my golden hours. From one whom I called friend (most desecrated term!) I had imbibed the subtle poison of unbelief. I had become the associate of infidels and gamblers. What a blight upon the hopes of my parents-upon the pride of my father, and my mother's tender and doting trust! They knew not all my derelictions-the knowledge would have broken my mother's heart at once; but too much was written on my conscious brow; too much might be read in my evasion of daily duties and honorable claims. My father's look grew daily sterner, and my mother's tenderness had a sorrowful tone, that would once have stirred my heart to its depths. But what appeal reaches him who embraces vice under the name of pleasure, and has learned to regard the code of pure morality as the dictate of a narrow and bigoted faith? 
                
               "The day was just breaking, as, having spent the night in gambling, I emerged one morning with my associates into an obscure street of the city. My strength was exhausted by intense excitement, and the cold damp air of the early hour came over me with a sickening weight. 
               "'Your losses seem to sit heavy on your soul as Banquo's ghost, Delancey,' said one of my companions; 'but you're yet a novice; a few months longer, and you will have learned to make mouths at the jade we call fortune.' 
               "My answer was given in a recklessness of tone that I did not indeed feel. Some further remarks passed, revoltingly enough illustrative of the gambler's code, and we separated. 
               "'Charles Delancey!' said a deep voice as I was left alone, 'are these your companions?' 
               "I started with unpleasant surprise. A tall, imposing figure, closely wrapped, stood regarding me with a fixed and seemingly mournful attention. 
               "'I have not the honor,' said I, somewhat coldly, after a moment's silence, 'of recollecting the acquaintance your question seems to imply.' 
               "'It matters not,' said the stranger, in the same tone of mingled sorrow and reproach that marked his first address, 'who or what I am. He who sees a blind man approaching an abyss, waits not the ceremony of an introduction to warn him of his danger.' 
               "'What do you mean?' cried I, with increasing astonishment; 'I do not understand you.' 
               "'I will not now detain you. Your sunken and bloodshot eye tells of the want of rest. Go! and while the wakening city rises to new life, and to the glorious pageant that already colors yon reddening sky, seek you, in the troubled sleep of a feverish and unquiet spirit, a forgetfulness of the scenes that have robbed you of a more tranquil repose.' 
               "Thus speaking in the most deliberate tone, the muffled stranger turned abruptly away, and left me absolutely motionless with surprise. Whether it was owing to the wan and misty morning ing light that fell on his features, or to the mystery of his manner, or the expression of strong sorrowful feeling that marked his countenance, or to my too conscious heart, or to all together,-it bore to my overwrought fancy a cast of supernatural impressiveness. He was young, seemingly little older than myself; but the mild solemnity of his look would have suited a warning angel. The voice, too! Its tones seemed to me to have an unearthly holiness-deep, rebuking, and yet tender. Long after I had attained the silence of my chamber they still lingered on my ear. A crowd of vague and shadowy suppositions floated through my brain, till sleep finally dispelled them. I awoke with the impression not a little enfeebled, and altogether more earthly. 'Some half-crazed fanatic, no doubt,' said I, 'or perhaps some idle wag amusing himself at my expense.' But the conclusion was but half satisfactory; and though with returning night I repaired to my customary haunt, a feeling of misgiving continued to fall over me like an occasional shadow. 
               "The night wore on with its usually deepening excitement. Midnight came. Conversation had ceased, and the countenances of more than one sharer in the gloomy frenzy of the game grew more and more fixed in the terrible earnestness of men whose all was thrown into hazard. In the midst of this dreadful stillness, a well remembered voice whispered in my ear, 'Delancey, follow me.' I did not need to look up to know it was the stranger of the morning. The hour, the tone, the manner, gave an irresistible authority to the command. I made no attempt to resist an ascendency not more strange than it was powerful, but rose and followed him. A few minutes' walk brought us to a handsome house, into which, after a slight tap, we were admitted. A number of persons were passing and repassing through it, with appalled looks, as if assembled there by some event of horror. Confused and anxious, I looked inquiringly at my guide; but, silent and grave, he led me on through a suite of elegant apartments, all bearing the marks of recent disorder and dismay. In one of these two children lay sleeping on the floor; without the soft quiet that lies on the lid of infancy. They seemed to have fallen there uncared for or forgotten, as they wept themselves to slumber; for sobs were yet breaking from the fair and tender bosoms. The stranger paused a moment, and held the light he had taken on our way over the innocent features. 'Poor children!' he said, 'is there no one left to see to you? Look at them, Delancey! Is it not sorrowful? A few hours since these babes were the idols of parental love, but they will never waken to its kiss again.' 
               "Once more he led me on, and he now tapped at the door of an inner chamber. Some weeping matrons seemed to have just arrayed a young and still lovely female form for the grave. They had placed her new-born infant upon her bosom, and there they lay, the mother and babe, in the smiling beauty that was to be given to the dust. Aghast and motionless, I stood beside my conductor as he remained gazing himself tearfully upon the fair ruin. But turning at last away, he beckoned me to yet another chamber. I started back in horror, as the outlines of another outstretched human form, and in a shroud that was blood-stained, met my gaze. 'Come hither,' said my guide, advancing to the body, and flinging back the covering. I turned away sick at heart. The features were frightfully mangled, evidently with a pistol-shot in the hand of a suicide. By the powers, it was awful! And there stood my guide, lifting his serious eye to mine with a glance as quiet and measured as a surgeon's about to operate on a subject. 
               "'Look!' he said; 'can you recognize these remains? They were very lately familiar to you, and but a few hours since they were a model of manly strength and beauty. But yesternight he that lies here sat at your side, at the table you have just left,-though so little cared for that to-night no one of you has missed him! But he rushed from it a beggar. The sum that was won from him last night, completed the ruin that had long impended over him. This is the result. His young victim-wife-his children-you have seen them, Delancey. Return now, if you will, to the scene from which I called you. They you have left reck little of their work; but you,-I heard one speak of your losses,-do you regret your less practised skill? Can Charles Delancey envy the gains even of a sanctioned robbery?' 
               "I was left to answer the question to my own heart. My singular companion had glided away. I hastened after him, but he eluded my sight. Alone, and with a crowd of tumultuous thoughts rushing upon me like a torrent, I sought my own chamber. Perturbed beyond the reach of sleep, I paced it for hours. I had turned to gambling, as thousands turn,-for amusement. I was above a lower aim. I had thought of it in no other light. True, I was beginning to find its cost a fearful one; but I had followed it out in no other of its leadings. It was now suddenly brought before me in its naked aspect of guilt. My soul fairly started back as I looked at it. Robbery! Yes, that was in truth its name. Such at least was its aim, darker because more treacherous than his who sheds blood on the highway. Well might the stranger so call it. The stranger! Who was he? How had my habits or character become matter of interest to one so unknown to me? How was it that I felt before him as in the presence of some warning spirit? Such were the shifting reflections that crowded upon me, while through all I again and again deprecated the pursuit whose end was so clearly crime. Nor did this feeling, though born of the hour's excitement, fade with it. I never touched a card after. 
               "But I am anticipating. With this resolve, the desire I had to find some clue to the person and interest of my mysterious acquaintance was my strongest feeling. I spent the following day in strolling through the city, in the hope of meeting him among some of its crowds; but hour after hour passed away, and still I had looked vainly through the passing multitudes for the figure that, in its tall and graceful proportions, was so easy to be distinguished. A small funeral train, evidently composed of the humbler class, was passing me. 
               "'Shall we join the humble procession?' asked the voice that had acquired so startling a power over me-and my tutelar friend was again at my side. I grasped his hand. My feelings, though mingled, were almost those of pleasure. 
                
               "'By all means;' and we followed the remnant of mortality for some moments in silence. 
               "'There are many problems in life,' said my youthful monitor at last. 'She whom we are following, though unknown in its prouder paths, was distinguished in hers by uniform goodness and piety. Yet this could not save her from the afflictive blow that has no doubt shortened her life of usefulness.' 
               "Absorbed still in my wondering interest in the speaker, I felt little in the sorrow of which he spoke, but mechanically I asked, 'What is its history?' 
               "'She was the mother of young Howell.' 
               "Howell! I scarcely remembered the name, which was uttered as comprehending the answer. 
               "'Do you not recollect him? It is little more than a year since he was introduced to the club of which you are a member. The efforts and interest of a wealthy relative had procured him a place in the navy; and young as he was, a mere boy indeed, his brilliant spirit had already distinguished him. You must remember him, though associated with your gay circle but for a short time. Yet-pardon me! it was too long. The habits rapidly acquired in the loose haunts of pleasure, are illy suited to the rigid exactions of naval discipline. These few months' recess from the duties of his station dimmed his young name's lustre for ever; he was dismissed from a profession that his earlier course promised to ornament. He returned to the widowed and indigent mother who had looked to him for support,-to die! Disgrace broke the spirit that could yet,-such is our poor human frailty,-stoop to folly, to vice. He left her to sorrow-toil-want,-what wonder that she is following him?' 
               "Well might my face flush with painful consciousness during the little history. Well did I now remember the precocious boy; the young bright spirit that had for a time given such fresh gayety to the circle where the fatal shadows gathered over him that had thus settled in darkness. I had been a sharer in the fell agency, and how keenly did I feel the deep reproach of the narrator's calm words. I could make no reply. My life seemed passing before me in humbling review as I passed on, and the grave was closed as I stood yet musing in painful reverie. 
               "'Are you still disposed to accompany me?' my companion then asked, in a voice of soothing gentleness. 
               "'And whither would you now lead me?' I replied, with something almost of irritation; 'have you yet more to show me of human misery?' 
               "A look of kindness-of pity, rested on the expressive face. 'There is much of misery whichever way we turn: it is the inevitable growth of the sins and follies into which our hurried feet are so often led. May we not derive some useful lessons from its contemplation? I am now on my way to the city hospital-a place where the sufferings incident to humanity will meet us in a variety of shapes. Will you attend me thither? or do you recoil from scenes to which the man of pleasure is necessarily unused?' 
               "'I will attend you,' said I, 'whatever may present. Shrouded as you make yourself in mystery, your hand probes skillfully-perhaps needfully.' 
               "We soon reached the asylum of disease and wretchedness. Various shapes indeed of human anguish were around me that had not yet visited my dreams. The stranger of a foreign soil calling in fevered frenzy upon kindred names: victims of slowly-wasting diseases, some already eating away the poor frame; others but too evidently induced by lives of profligacy, making hideous the yet lingering traces of their years of guilt,-all were there. 
               "To my guide every case seemed familiar, and still, as we traversed the dismal sanctuary, he sketched to me brief histories of its inmates. 'There is one, whose maimed and disfigured limbs call out less melancholy thought, than the vacant eye that bespeaks such utter extinction of all aim in life; yet this man was once gifted in no ordinary degree with a mind and soul fervid, rich, imaginative, the pride of the intellectual circle in which he moved. But this fervid nature led him into dissipation-dissipation that is a descent without pause. Intemperance with its train of vices fastened upon him; friendship turned from the object it had almost ceased to recognize; and, borne down by shame, without character or means of support, he joined the army then organizing for western defence. There his fine manly form became mutilated, as you see. The fine spirit was already broken, his pride of character extinct; and after a few years of dependence upon the charity of the generous backwoodsman, he dragged himself back to close, in the hospital of his native city, and with no object of hope save death, the life whose morning had been so full of excitement.' 
               "After so many years," said the narrator of our story, breaking off its somewhat tedious thread, "how have I been reminded of this brief history by the fate of poor Jack Hallidon. But I had yet other details to hear. To you, my friends, they are doubtless a little prosy; but to me they had a living warmth-they were breathing and present realities. 
               "'Yonder,' continued the serious but rapid sketcher, 'are the cells appropriated to lunatics. Listen. Do you hear that strain?' 
               "A low but thrilling sound of vocal melody came at the moment from one of these cells. I listened with almost suspended breath. Some one was warbling an air broken and varied, as if its tones were controlled by rapidly shifting emotions, but still intensely sweet, like the softest breathings of an instrument touched without method. I myself led the way eagerly to the cell whence it proceeded, though the strain was already dying away in tremulous intonations, like the last sound of a broken chord. On entering, we found the vocalist in the attitude of one intently listening. 
               "'Bring you aught from Henry?' she exclaimed, springing towards us with an eagerness that flushed her sunken cheek; 'ah! I knew my voice would reach him. And yet the day is almost gone-this long and terrible day, whose hours I have counted and counted till my hot brain forgot the number; and look!' she exclaimed, pointing to her grated window, 'the sun that has stood stock still so long is at last going down. 'Tis fading! all the bright hues,-do you know the glory always goes out, and then 'tis darkness-darkness!' she repeated, as if the word had some chord of consciousness; and now sobbing aloud, she sank, pale and exhausted, on her truss of straw. Forgetful of everything else, I looked at the lovely wreck with the most painful interest. The form was attenuated, but its delicate fashioning had been in the perfection of symmetry. The faded features-for faded they must have been-still wore the impress of singular beauty. The fine penciling of the arched brow-the long lashes that veiled her eye and softened its frenzy-these were unchanged; and the glossy softness of the hair that had been shorn from her fair head was yet mournfully apparent in its scanty vestiges. 
               "'Do you not recollect her?' inquired the unknown, as he marked my earnest gaze; 'you must have seen her when those frenzied features were radiant with hope and happiness.' 
               "'Seen her! when? where?' 
               "'You met her at various places of public amusement; at the ball-room, the theatre, brought thither by one whom you especially honor with the name of friend.' 
               "I looked at her with deepening emotion. I at once traced the painful identity. I had known her as the object of the devoted pursuit of him who was indeed my most favored associate. Yet could it be possible-she who had been fairest among the fair? Again I doubted. 
               "'Think you,' said my attendant, 'this delirious fever of the soul, this constant excitement of hope deferred, would work no change?' 
               "'And what has reduced her to this?' 
               "'It cannot be matter of surprise to one who will reflect,' replied my conductor, now leading the way from the cell, 'that he who despises divine laws should think little of crushing a human heart. The insidious attentions which Henry H. paid, season after season, to the poor maniac we have left, were suddenly transferred to an object of fresher attraction. The unhappy girl had loved him as few perhaps can love. An unfriended orphan, her life, till she met her perfidious lover, had been a cold and joyless one. What wonder the young, deep heart, that as yet had had no object, should pour out upon him a passionate and absorbing trust? His desertion was to her as if the lights of heaven had gone out. Nor was this all. Light words were the plea of his faithlessness. He might speak them with impunity, for she had no defender. And then she grew maddened. Yet this man, Charles Delancey, amid the gay round where you move together, is your soul of counsel.' 
               "I grew touched at last to the quick, with this terrible scanning of my whole life. 
               "'Who are you?' I exclaimed; 'what are my follies or associations to you? and for what purpose or by what enchantment do you bring before me such a succession of horrid images?' 
               "'It needs no magic,' was the calm rejoinder, 'to bring before one the evils that flow from the lives of the unprincipled. However imposing their career, however they may cast around them an atmosphere of gayety and attraction, they are hourly disseminating the seeds of misery through a far wider sphere. Read you no lesson, Delancey, in all you have so lately witnessed? Find you not yet there is guilt in the bottom of the cup you are beginning to drain?' 
               "'Once more, who are you? By what right or interest is this questioning?' exclaimed I. 
               "'My name does not matter. I have a rightful interest in one who is pawning by piecemeal the birthright of a glorious nature. Will you put off the redemption till it is too late? Will you still continue to give your confidence, your time, your soul's seeming sanction to those who spurn the eternal landmarks of morality? Return to your chamber, and reflect! to that home where a tender mother is mourning silently but deeply over the wasted energies, the blunted feelings of her child. Look at her with attention. Is not her cheek pale? Has not her smile of love lost its gladness? Oh, Delancey! Will you persist in destroying the mind whose opening promise was so fair?' 
               "There was a thrilling earnestness in the tone, more appealing even than the words. His eye, grave, tender, searching, was fastened on my face. Suddenly he again turned from me-the strange interview was ended. He had glided away like a shadow, and his mission of guardianship, however derived, seemed fulfilled. 
               "Day after day passed, and week after week, and I met him not. But the mystery that was thus confirmed, tended, doubtless, to strengthen the influence he had left on my heart. I had already begun a new life. I shuddered in passing the haunt of the gambler. I flung off at once, and for ever, all commerce with him from whose hand I had drunk the subtlest poisons. I turned with sudden aspirings to the profession of which I had made a mockery. What creatures of circumstance we are! A few months, and the enthralment that had so long fettered my faculties seemed like a vile dream. Once more my father had a pride in his son; once more my mother's beaming eye turned upon her boy in the fullness of a mother's trust. The mercurial temperament which had, perhaps, speeded my moral declension, still made some stirring interest necessary to me. On the arena of politics there was ample room for the outlay of my surplus energies; and with little taste for it, I yet became a leader among the young politicians of the day. Circumstance pushed me forward. A new member was to be elected to our legislative council. Some public question at the time was stirring the community with more than ordinary interest, in which my father took a far more active part than was usual to him. He was solicited to give his name to the canvass. But he had begun to feel, perhaps, a little life-worn; at all events, he was satisfied with former honors, and had no mind to adventure his dignity in an uncertain contest. In declining it, however, he took occasion to suggest, en passant, that his son, though young, was just eligible to the office, and was, he believed, something better qualified for it than himself. The hint happened not to be lost. I was pressed into the lists. My former follies were suddenly forgotten, or were thrown back among the rubbish of my boyhood, and my friends rallied round me with all the usually disinterested warmth of party zeal. 
                
               "Like all political aspirants, once pressed into the lists, I was certainly anxious for success; but my father's solicitude was far greater than my own. The day that was to decide was at last at hand, and my father, with all his stateliness, was restless and uneasy. The daily veerings of the popular interest were of course duly reported to us. 
               "'You have been fortunate,' said one of our friends one day, 'in securing the friendship of Dr. Smith.' 
               "'Of Dr. Smith?' 
               "'Yes; though he is the very last one to have expected active effort from. But, hurrying as he always is, from sick to sick, he is making interest for you through a large class. He seems to have been quietly exerting himself in your favor since your first announcement, and it is astonishing what he has made of so graceless a fellow. He has certainly raked up from the past more good deeds than your friends ever suspected you of. Yesterday I saw him place an old decrepit man in the market-house, who sat there for hours, telling of your boyhood; how you took the part of humbler boys; how in person you carried from your mother, daily, help to the sufferers the winter after the plague. To-day, as I was passing a group of boys, one of them called out, 'Hurrah for Delancey, the friend of the poor!' 'How do you know?' said I, a little curious to learn how so young a partisan had gathered his creed. 'Why, Doctor Smith says so.' 'Yes, and he knows,' said another. 'He is himself the best friend they've got, and his advice nohow won't go for nothing. When he told poor father to-day, with that kind of smile he has, that he would live and get well if it was only to vote for Charles Delancey, it spirited father up so.' 
               "I heard the whole detail out with a surprise that prevented interruption. Dr. Smith personally was wholly unknown to me, though I had heard a young physician of the name spoken of as having attained unexampled success in his profession. It was said that, while yet a student, he had written a medical treatise that startled the whole faculty; and attracted by a fame so honorable, I had even had a strong desire to meet him. But had he purposely avoided me, I could not have failed more uniformly in my attempts to see him. And yet this, without doubt, was the friend so active in my behalf. My father, who had listened with great interest to the report, put on his hat. His deep surprise at my disavowal of the implied acquaintance, stirred him to a decision of action a little at variance with his customary stateliness. 
               "'I will myself see this Dr. Smith, Charles. Some recognition of his friendship is certainly due to him, and I will see him at once.' 
               "'He is not one easy to find, except professionally,' said one; but my father was not to be discouraged. He returned in a half hour, more pleasantly excited than I had ever seen him. He had been successful. 
               "'Why, Charles, you must have been mistaken. Dr. Smith and you must have met at some time. He did not say so definitely, but it must be, from his manner. How could you have lost sight, much more the memory, of him? I have seen no one like him. A young man, little if any older than yourself, with the perfection of the very noblest manhood. But to-morrow he dines with us!' 
               "I was growing accustomed to mystification, but my impatience for the hour that promised the development of the present marvel was without bounds. To no lover waiting the hour of tryst could the foot of time have moved more snail-like. But it came at last. Dinner was at hand, and the voice and step of the stranger were upon my ear. How did my whole soul spring forward to meet him-not merely the guest of the hour, but my friend in evil days-my guardian, my monitor-he who had held up the beacon-light that saved me, when I was floundering upon invisible rocks. I grasped his hand with an emotion that might well give me words. 
               "'Yes, my father, I have met Dr. Smith before. Deeper, holier obligations to him than you are aware of, are mine-are yours. If your son be at all worthy of your name, it is to him you owe it. He sought me out in paths I should blush now to enter; he led me from them; he flung over me a spell and power that even my beloved parents had not been able to exert!' 
               "Rapidly and briefly I sketched the two days' history of which I have given you the minute detail. Even my father was positively moved beyond the power of utterance. My mother, to whom our guest had turned with almost filial reverence, could not restrain her tears; and the deep silence of some moments that followed, was alone eloquent of the joy and astonishment my words excited. 
               "'But I have yet to learn,' said I, still holding his hand in my grasp, 'to what I owe this friendship, this interest, which I hear and feel is still enduring?' 
               "Our guest lifted his eye to mine with that peculiar expression of fathomless meaning which had more than once thrilled me. 
               "'Had you never a friend of my name?' 
               "'Yes, in my boyhood-one that I regarded with a love surpassing that of woman; one, too, that, boy as he was, exerted an influence over me kindred to your own; but he has long been dead.' 
               "'Dead! alas!-and why, then, may I not occupy his entire place in your good graces?' 
               "The expression of his eye changed. It was fastened on mine with an unmistakable archness. A smile that seemed contending with strong emotion played over his features. I sprung to my feet-my very soul seemed bursting my bosom. My mother grasped his arm, and looked in his face; and again his eye was turned to hers, darkening with reverential feeling. Doubt was gone, and we found utterance together, though in somewhat different terms. 
               "'It is our own Edward!'-'It is Ned, by heaven!-living! and our own Ned still!' 
               "It is mockery to dress up such an hour in the frippery of words. We were both tall fellows as any in Illyria; but like the brothers of Israel, who perhaps were not behind us in that respect, we fell upon each other's neck and wept. 
               "'But,' said my mother, when Edward's less tumultuous spirit had at last settled mine, 'to what has been owing this long seeming alienation-this utter estrangement from us?' 
               "'Ah! my dear mother,-for so let me call you,-it was not estrangement-not such as you deem. If you knew how for years I have still hovered round the path of those from whom I yet hid myself'- 
               "'For what purpose, dear Edward? Was it not cruel to keep from us the knowledge of your being?' 
               "'Colonel Delancey will pardon me," said Edward, looking gravely but respectfully at my father; 'but if you will recall, dear madam, the circumstances under which my dear Charles and myself were separated, you will not wonder that I avoided the possible repetition of so painful a scene. Cruel it was-ungrateful, seemingly, to you, and most cruel to myself. Words may not tell the anguish of the moment I met you for the only time, when, exhausted for the want of food, I lay crouched among the graves where I had vainly striven to distinguish my poor mother's.' 
               "'You! Good Heaven! was it then you, so famished, so wretched, that the ghastly image haunted me for months after? But your hair,-I remember of thinking at the time of what yours was, so dark and crisped, and lying so richly round your forehead.' 
               "'Ah! but that had fallen off with the scorchings of the pestilence. Shivering with cold, I had picked up the matted wig that had perhaps been tossed from some head in the death-agony. Suffering soon crushes out our cherished niceties,-it was to me a precious covering.' 
               "'And you suffered us who loved you so well, to remain in ignorance of all this?' 
               "'Alas! it was a struggle to which I was scarcely equal. But for the aid you gave me, I should probably have at last betrayed myself. You told me then, God had still a care for me. So I have found it.' 
               "My story is done. The issue of the contest, and all the interests connected with it, have long since faded from the chart of memory; but the friendship of Edward Smith remains undimmed, like the colors of the old masters. But the fondly renewed intercourse was permitted me only for a brief season. 
               "In a neighboring city, whither he hastened to aid the sufferers under a visitation similar to that which had scourged his own, he offered up his young life-not so much the victim of professional enthusiasm, as of the truest and noblest sense of life's wide brotherhood that ever warmed a human heart." 
             
             
                
               THE DEBT. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Neither a borrower nor lender be, 
                           For loan oft loses both itself and friend. 
                        
                      
                     HAMLET. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        Alas! they had been friends in youth.
                      
                     COLERIDG. 
                   
                
               "YOU have never," said Harley Ives one day to our host, "mentioned Garrett Brownley-one of our Independence boys. Don't you remember him?" 
               "Yes, the merriest boy alive-wasn't he? I recollect him only for that, for he had but recently come to the neighborhood when I left it." 
               "Ah! poor fellow! Merry indeed he was. I've seen him swinging his arms, and jumping by the hour, from the sheer overflowing of animal-life. High-spirited, too, as he was merry-hearted; full of generous impulse as of boyish glee. Do you remember his look?" 
               "Yes; a bright face, that broke into laughter as water does into dimples." 
               "And could you have believed that that face, so bright, so earnest, so glowing, would ever become as rigid as iron? Yet it did, and that, too, in treading only life's every day path-an industrious blacksmith, living year after year in a quiet village in the quietest part of New England. He doubtless lost something of his mirthful spirit ere he reached manhood; but when I last saw him, during his apprenticeship, a short time before its completion, he was as full of action and energy as he had been of boyish glee. I never forgot his look at that time. A handsome, dark-eyed fellow, with something inspiriting in every glance and movement, he might have graced the shop of Vulcan. When I again met him, some twenty years after,-but the change is indescribable; there was not a trace left. We then met by the merest accident-I didn't even know his place of residence. I was, however, passing through it, and was detained there a short time by business. I stepped into a store to make some trifling purchases, and with rather tedious fastidiousness was trying to fit myself in a pair of gloves. A young man at my elbow was looking at a piece of costly goods, of which he seemed strongly inclined to take some patterns; but he still hesitated. The salesman evidently thought him a customer to be secured, and the young man's scruples had poor play with his clerkly tact. 'It was a rare chance, such a piece of cloth-he was the very one, whom from his taste and judgment he had settled on, when the goods were opened, for the first purchaser; but it was going with a rush.' 
               "But he was unprepared, the young customer said, and did not like to test his credit so largely. The objection was of course overruled-'such a suit would be the making of a man's credit-there, choose your trimmings,' flinging him the equally costly fittings, 'I will measure off the goods.' 
               "'Beware!' said a voice, so low as to be scarcely audible, yet so grave and deep that it drew instant attention; 'beware, young man! A man's step gets heavy under clothes that he owes for.' 
               "The person that must have been the speaker-for that voice of suppressed strength could have belonged to no other present,-seemed to be a smith, for he was engaged in repairing the lock of the store door. He was a man of middle age, with a face sedate even to severity; and for aught that his look evidenced, he might have been conscious of nothing that was passing near him. His eyes, if he had at all directed them to the person addressed, had been instantly turned again to his work, and from his whole manner he seemed entirely absorbed with it. 
               "Neither clerk nor customer paid further notice to the interruption than a careless laugh, but the singular mechanic had awakened my interest. I forgot my gloves, and continued looking at him. The stone-like rigidity of the face (though not at all at variance with the giving of the brief warning, for, though evidently prompted by sudden impulse, it had in its tones the solemnity of an oracle) was something I could but wonder at. There was no natural harshness in the features, nor in their general outline. Their peculiar expression seemed the effect of a mind long fixed to a continuous effort. It was like the tension of action represented in a figure of iron. There was an utter absence from the face of all that is genial, social, or hopeful. The whole aspect was that of a careworn, weary man, but yet with something in it of some determinate purpose, at once sustaining and ruling him out from the privilege of rest, or even any looking forward to it for a future hour. 
               "While I thus stood speculating upon lineaments so singularly set, the merchant, just coming from his counting-room, and passing out through the store, paused at my side a moment to speak to his clerk. 'Let Garrett Brownley,' he said, 'see to those other little jobs I spoke to you of, and when he is done, pay him. He is never on our books.' 
               "Garrett Brownley! I started at the name; and yet, looking as I still was at the busy and silent smith, it was some moments ere it stirred a thought of the identity-I had so long associated it, whenever called to my remembrance, with spirit-impulse, overflowing vitality. Different indeed must my old acquaintance still be from this man, no matter how much he might have changed,-and yet, I began to look at him with increased earnestness, to trace out tokens which I thought were strangely linked with memory. The form, though muscular, was stiff, the shoulders rounded. If it were the same with the lithe figure I had known, it had been no ordinary labor that had wrought the change. But the head, yet a fine one, was the same, and the hair-sadly grizzled was it now, but yet there were traces of the same raven hue, and it curled round the bronzed and deeply sunken temples as I still remembered it round the brow of the youthful apprentice. The features-but I did not pursue them; my heart was filling fast. I approached the smith, and grasped his shoulder. 
               "'You are Garrett Brownley?' 
               "'Well?' He did not even raise his eyes. 
               "'You were one of the boys who, thirty years ago, assembled at Spring Grove to celebrate Independence?' 
               "He turned round from his work and looked at me inquiringly. 
               "'Don't you remember lame Harley?' I said, looking at my shrunk limb. The past had evidently grown dull to his thought. 'The pale, thin boy,' I continued, 'that sat under the shade, and watched you stronger ones at play?' 
               "The sunlight broke slowly over his face-a brief expression, it's true, passing almost as soon as I could note it; yet it was the smile of his boyhood. 
               "'Harley Ives!' he said, grasping my hand with a strength I was fain to flinch from, 'and so little changed? Ah! surely I might have known you,-thin and pale yet, but not worn and weather-beaten, and with all things but the present,-even boyhood's memories,-drenched out of your mind. But some of us,' he added, after a brief pause, in which I could find nothing to say, 'some of us, you know, in starting life, take up the hill-path: you, I see, have kept the valley-road.' 
               "Something of his old spirit gleamed through his words, but there was still bitterness in the faint smile. I felt we had a great deal to say. I wanted, if possible, to rally him back into himself, but this was not the time or place. The play of his face was fast settling again into its previous look. The questions with which I somewhat importunately plied him, were briefly answered, and in tones momently hardening. 'Your home is here in the village? You have a wife and children? Ah! that makes you rich enough. If an old bachelor contrives to keep the valley-road, he has no one to say to, how green and pleasant it is.' 
               "'But it is something,' I said, 'to see a friend's happiness.' 
               "I hoped he would ask me to his house, but he took no notice of my hint. I was not, however, to be repelled. 'You are busy now,' I said, 'and so am I; but in two hours I shall be ready to leave, and by that time-will you not?-you will be at home. Show me where you live, and I will call, if only for ten minutes.' He pointed out his house silently, and then returned to his work. 
               "'It is not indifference,' said I, mentally, 'I'm sure it isn't.' More than once the iron face had taken a touch of awakening and sorrowful tenderness, though only for an instant. Some feeling had evidently got a lodgment in his heart, that was shutting it from all warmth or sunshine. He was doubtless poor; his garb was of the poorest order of decency; 'and poverty,' said I, pursuing the thought in the strain of a once favorite sentimentalist, 'poverty is a bitter draught, Heaven knows.' But then, how many a gleam of sunshine finds its way through it! There's something morbid in all this-it wants a physician. 
               "I was not tardy in fulfilling my appointment. Garrett met me at the door, and once more his face faintly brightened. I was presented to his family; and the interest I had felt for my friend, was not a little heightened by that awakened for the husband and father. His wife was a slight, pale woman, with the appearance of habitual ill health, but a meek, gentle face of exceeding sweetness. The oldest daughter, of some fifteen years, sat braiding straw-an occupation then followed in many a New England cottage; and assiduously did the silent girl ply her task. But how soon, thought I, as I watched the thin, almost transparent fingers, how soon will they be folded on the young heart in a rest that no need will break! I knew it was only consumption that touched the face with such unearthly beauty. A beautiful boy of six years, one of those children that stir our whole nature with a quick delight, stood beside her, handing her her straws, and watching every chance of aiding her work; though occasionally his large, clear, loving eyes seemed seeking his father's, as if yearning for his notice. It was a subject for a painter-the fair girl, fading from human vision, and the bright boy so full of high and rich promise; and I stood for some moments looking at them with a rivetted gaze. When I turned I met the glance of the father-his eye had mostly a settled inward look, but it gave out a gleam of expression,-he understood my feelings; and if I had previously questioned the tenderness of his own, the doubt would have been silenced. It was painful to see that look, though a troubled one, instantly replaced by his usual aspect. Yet he had turned to still another claimant upon my notice and sympathy. Upon a pallet near the pale girl, lay her twin-brother, the victim of a chronic rheumatism. It had been brought on, the father told me, some two years before, by the boy's over-heating himself in the shop, in his great exertion to assist him through a press of heavy work. The face of the invalid indicated suffering, but its expression had much of the mournful patience and sweetness of the mother's. A host of specifics, I was told in reply to my inquiries, had been tried for his relief. Even now the mother spoke faintly of some physician at a distance, celebrated in such cases. Brownley did not reply. Hope long deferred had grown dull of belief. 
               "All my fine purposes of rallying him into cheerfulness faded out before these hard realities. I took leave of the family with a painful interest, and went on musing upon the changes of time and circumstances. The contrast in Brownley's present and former look, rested on my thought. I pondered upon the peculiar character of the face. How and why had lineaments so flexile taken that look of iron? Sorrow might well have settled there, but that was not the dominant expression. Much more, as I have already said, did it bespeak the strong pressure of some impelling thought-a stern inward rule shared with no one. 
               "Four or five years passed before I again saw him. Then my journeyings took me once more through the place. The village had greatly improved: and I thought it not improbable that the circumstances of poor Brownley had improved with it. I was shortly confirmed in the hope by a communicative neighbor, who heard me inquiring for him. 'He was getting on,' my informant said, 'quite prosperous-like. His shop was the leading one in the place. His wife was healthier than she used to be. The son that had the rheumatiz, had been so for a year or two that he could walk with but one crutch, and had proved uncommon smart. He got real good learning while he lay bedrid, and was now teaching a high-school, and was thought a world on. The sickly daughter had been dead a good while, and a little boy, too, that was a proper taking child; but there was a nice family of children left, and they were growing up to be a help instead of a hindrance.' 
               "I turned from the speaker in silence. For the moment I seemed to have heard of nothing but the young heads that had gone down to the dust. 'While death is in the world,' thought I, 'some shadow must be flung on hopes deemed the fairest!' Despite the more cheerful portion of the communication, I could only think of poor Brownley's home as darkened with mournful images. But the feelings of course passed. I remembered that time had passed also; and with growing objects to fill the vacant places, I trusted the hearts of the bereaved had been healed. I hastened to call on them, and with anticipations not unblent with pleasure. All that I had been led to look for in the family was realized. An air of greatly increased comfort marked the household and all around it. A second daughter, as fair as the first, but with the hue of health on her smooth cheek, and her light step shedding gladness wherever she moved in her domestic round, seemed its pervading spirit. The mother was little changed. The gentle face and movement expressed, perhaps, more than ever a peace that passeth show: and it was evident the mother's heart had found quiet in the woman's and Christian's faith. The younger children were full of health and spirit, and the decrepit son came home from his school with a face beaming with intelligence, and cheerful with hopeful purpose. 
               "And was not Garrett Brownley happy now? More than once had I asked myself the question. He was much changed. The tension that had marked his countenance so deeply was gone; the inward look had given place to a ready notice of outward things, and above all, to the little interests and comforts of his family. More than once, during my stay, his children came to him for some indulgence, and waited his answer on tiptoe, as if on the wing already for the privilege they were sure of. If not talkative, he entered into the little subjects of the hour, and his tones were full of kindness. Still I could not disguise to myself that in all this there was yet a touch of sadness-subdued indeed it was, and I could not have defined its tokens; but the heart of friendship could but detect the shadow. 
               "Gradually, however, I won him back at last to the memories of our boyhood. He listened with some interest to the details I was able to give him of the more prominent of his old associates. He was not illiterate; his mind seemed to me strong, and at times deeply colored, his language occasionally taking a peculiar force; but I was surprised to find how little he knew of the current events and general interests of the past twenty years. As the evening drew on (for he would not suffer me to return to my inn), we were at last left alone, amid the softening influences of the summer twilight. The moonbeams fell on his face through the vines of a rustic porch, and I saw it had taken a musing and deeply sorrowful expression. 
               "'Of these you mention,' he said, in a low voice, 'their lives were marked by events that the world takes note of. But of how many of that gathering of boys can any thing be said, save that they lived and died! Yet even these have had their own history, though they have never secured a place in the world's thoughts, or been of any consideration among men. There's a history growing out of a man's heart that nobody sees, like the droppings of a cave. The issues of his life, whether sweet or bitter, take their quality from what he filled the fountain with in his youth.' 
               "I did not reply. I feared the heart that I saw was instinctively opening, might close at the touch; but it was a needless fear-the lax fibre could keep its sorrows no longer. 
                
               "'I drugged the springs of mine,' he said, 'when they were clear and bright enough. I turned the friendship of my youth into a scourge. Every young heart has its intimacies. That of mine was formed in boyhood, and was a close one. From my very childhood till my seventeenth year, I had one especial associate. He was the companion without whom pastime would have been no enjoyment. You did not know him, for my boyhood's home was some distance from the village where I served my apprenticeship. Our fathers were near neighbors. His was wealthy-not mine; but their social positions were the same-both were worthy and respectable farmers. Edward Chelson (that was his name) was an only child, and greatly privileged; I was one of a large family, and accustomed to toil and privation. Edward's open hand and heart would have fain made me a sharer in all his indulgences. It might have stirred some painful feeling of inequality, but a more athletic frame and more vigorous health gave me frequent opportunity of affording him aid in his boyish pursuits; and as yet the bond between us was mutual. Even when put to my trade, some miles distant, we were but partially separated. Every two weeks of a Saturday evening I went home. How these evenings now seem to me! They were not always fair weather-of course I know this; but so only I remember them-with the moon and stars shining down on my path, as I sped homeward (often after dark), with a brightness they've never had since. I remember the very air on my brow as if it came from Paradise. Edward sometimes met me on my way, if not always among the first at my father's house; and what plannings were at once on foot for the walks and enjoyments of the morrow! 
               "'So we grew up. The difference in the circumstances of the two families had been, during the past few years, not a little increased. My father had sustained a long train of losses, while Edward's had accumulated additional wealth. But this made no change in him. Well might I have loved him. He was the very soul of goodness, fidelity, and truth. I finished my apprenticeship, and was to set up my trade in a village near my father's. I was aware that he straitened himself greatly in furnishing me with the means of putting up a rude shop, and getting a small supply of iron for working; and though a free gift, I thought how pleasant, in his circumstances, it would be to me to replace it; and I fully intended doing it with the very earliest avails of my labor. But the holidays were at hand, and the young men of the place were preparing to get up the wonted gayeties of the season with more than usual spirit. 
               "'Do you know,' said Edward, 'our ball is forthcoming, and you, I see, making no preparations?' 
               "My answer was without hesitation; I was glad to say, 'I had declined joining it.' 
               "'Why, what has come over you?' said Edward. 
               "'You know,' I replied, 'that I have just set up my trade, and must economize.' 
               "'Economize!' well, that was right. Poor Edward would as soon have parted with his right hand as to have prevailed with any one for evil; but trained as he had been, how little did he know of the requirements of the term? 
               "'But a single ball, Garrett-the earnings of a dozen or two strokes on your anvil.' 
               "'You reckon rather fast, Edward. The cost of this one ball would swell my small pile of iron not a little. My freedom-suit is already shabby, and new year, and forty other things,-but the fact is, my purse is empty, and I'm glad of it.' 
               "'But mine just now is fuller than usual, and I, too,' said Edward, laughing, 'am heartily glad of it. I guess there's enough in it for all requisitions.' I shook my head. 'Only as a loan,' he continued. 'I know you're independent as Lucifer, but you shall pay me with interest.' 
               "'He lifted his eyes to mine with a look full of our boyish trust. Still I was firm. 
               "'What! demurring yet? And Lucy Austen? How will you make it up with her? She has set her heart on this ball. For the last year she has almost shut herself from young company for your sake.' 
               "'Then his words shook me. All else he could have said would have weighed less than my purpose; but that name,-I need not dwell on this matter. The pale, patient woman, whose low hymn you may now hear with the children's voices, was then Lucy Austen. Young as we both were, we had been months vowed to each other; and well I knew her renunciation of youthful privilege during that time. Had I only left this question to herself! But the thought came too late-the affair was beyond recall. 
               "'The fifty dollars that Edward put into my inexperienced hand soon melted away in injudicious and unskilful purchases, and another twenty-five had been received and expended before those holidays, with their giddy and uncalculated expenditures, were over. I began business with what was to me a heavy debt. It has been my life's curse. It sat uneasily on me from the first. It interfered with my grateful purpose towards my father, whose circumstances were becoming every day more and more straitened. I was disappointed in the profits of my shop. Another blacksmith, with plenty of capital to work on, set up business in the place about the same time as myself, and managed at once to secure all the heavy and profitable jobs. Our shops were not far apart, and for some time I had scarcely enough to do to drown the click of his hammers on my ear. Months rolled on, and I had not saved a dollar. Something like pain began to mingle with the pleasure of meeting Edward Chelson. Party politics in the little community of the village were at this time running high. Engrossed as I had necessarily been in my own simple interests, I had given little attention to the matter; but with Edward it was different. His position made him a partisan worth securing; and his political creed, being early called for, was early settled. With few other interests as yet stirred in his nature, he gave to it all the ardor of his years. Taking it for granted that our views were the same, so long had our feet taken the same path, he came to me to discuss some arrangements required by the interests of his party. My leanings chanced, however, to be in opposition; and at any rate I was not willing to act with so little knowledge of the principles involved. But I took up the mooted questions as if they had been the study of an hour, and soon settled the matter within myself. My predilections of course decided my creed. What did I know of the great wheels of government?-but I felt bound to range myself in the ranks to which Edward was so strongly opposed. 
               "'Then the sense of my debt came upon me goadingly. I would have suffered the severest personal penalty to have been free from it. Had not he of all human wisdom said, 'The borrower is servant to the lender?' Edward was hurt and disappointed. He hoped still to make me a proselyte, and assailed my views with more than his usual earnestness. Every nerve I had, had for months been growing sore to the touch. I was his debtor, and bound therefore to subscribe to all his opinions! Such thoughts grew upon me with every discussion. Bitter replies sprang to my tongue, gathering strength awhile from suppression, but breaking out at last. Votes then, as now, were bought and sold. Edward would have won mine (though upon the eve of a close conflict, it was an object to the party) only through conviction; but it was an approach I could not bear. 'I know,' I said, 'I'm your debtor-I never forget it. But, though poor, I'm a free man still. It is money that I owe you. I have not sold my birthright as yet for a mess of pottage. If I live, you shall be paid to the uttermost farthing. I'll sell my shop as soon as I can find a purchaser, and that will meet it.' 
               "'Never shall I forget the look with which Edward raised his eyes to my face. 'You shall do no such thing,' he said; 'and as for the paltry debt, I free you from it at once and for ever,-I never meant to claim it.' 
               "'Yes! you would make me doubly your bondman! But you are hammering at cold iron, whether you're at work for yourself or others. I have hands, Edward Chelson,' said I, clinching my fists, 'and will be no man's underling.' 
               "'I strode from him with feelings a demon would not envy. Remorse was at the heels of every syllable I uttered. We never met again in friendship. We still met, and not unfrequently-the jostle of life in that little community bringing us in contact. We still spoke, but on my own part, especially, only as strangers speak,-bitter cold greetings for those used to meet as we had done! But though Edward's look spoke, as plainly as could be, 'I can never think of you again as I have done,' there was more of sorrow in it than of anger from the first. 
               "'But that my debt remained unpaid, I would have sought a reconciliation. I think I should as it was, but pride, like a busy devil, kept watch over my heart day and night. My debt had become the one thought of my life; it was as the scourge to the poor beast that cannot draw his burden. I found no purchaser for my shop. I would at once have left the place for a season, and sought journey-work; but my father had fallen sick with a lingering and painful disease, requiring great personal attention, and I knew it was as little as I could do to stay and minister what I might to his relief. Occasional jobs for my shop had come in, and scrupulous punctuality and my reliability as a workman began to help me; so that I was now and then able to furnish the family with a little aid, which in my father's long illness they greatly needed. But still, I saved nothing; and at this very time a claim, long pressing upon me silently, but strong as a voice from the grave, called me to yet increased exertions. Lucy Austen was the child of a widowed mother-a strong-minded, energetic woman, who had been enabled by her own efforts to raise her child, naturally of a delicate frame, with great tenderness. It would have been better, doubtless, had she trained the frail flower that was to be given to my keeping less tenderly. Scarcely had Lucy returned from the festivities of the holidays, when the mother was stricken with mortal disease. But a few days after, Lucy was left without a home, or a single friend on whom she had a kindred claim. She had a right to expect I would say to her, 'We will have a home together; I will make one for us both.' But I was silent, and felt my very manhood gone from me. Lucy went out to work. Her strength failed. Every time I saw her, she was paler and feebler. I could bear it no longer,-and we were married. It was a poor tenderness that made her the sharer of the years that followed. My father died, and his younger children were left comparatively destitute. My mother's mournful eyes were upon me in their needs; they had a right to expect the assistance of the brother who had reaped the benefit of their father's better days. 
               "'I had now work enough to do, and I toiled almost night and day; but it was still by far the least profitable part of the custom shared with the other shop. Lucy's constitution might have rallied, with care and exemption from labor, but subjected as she was to all the drudgery of our household, her health at times entirely failed. Physicians' bills grew on me, and it was with difficulty I met the claims of life from day to day. 
               "'So time wore on-years without spring or summer. My heart grew alien to every thing of earlier feeling. Edward Chelson, the friend of my hoyhood, who had been more to me than a brother,-I passed and repassed him as if such things had never been. I now know that the expression of his face was entirely kind, and that he waited but to meet my glance to forgive me voluntarily and freely. But I did not feel this then. I even fancied he treated me with contumely-that he deemed me below his resentment. I made no question of how unjust a sore heart might make a man. Had our positions been less unlike, better feelings at some time must have got a hearing; but Edward was fast rising in the world, and I-I had well earned the look the world turns on a man struggling for bread. That he was aware of this-that he would gladly have assisted me-that pity had long taken place in his heart of all remembrance of wrong, I am now certain. Still I shunned him as I would an enemy. 'When I can pay him,' I said, 'it will be time enough to meet him; then perhaps I may make some acknowledgment.' When I could pay him! miserable hope for one like me. Edward, too, was now married. His father had bought him a seat a few miles from the village, which in our boyish rambles we had often stopped to admire. It was a pleasant ride to our village church. On the Sabbath that should have been to me a day of other thoughts, his carriage, with his gay children in it, used frequently to pass me. The prancing horses were always reined up as soon as he saw me, but I learned to know their approach, and avoided it. 
                
               "'I came to believe that every thing went against me by a fate. I suppose it was not so. In the place where I had put myself, the common crosses of life bore me down into darker and darker waters. But I ceased not to struggle. I had some mechanical genius, and I set myself at an invention that hope flattered me with for months. Night after night I toiled at it till my brain was almost maddened. I carried the model on foot to Washington, under the heat of a broiling July sun, and with no refreshment but what Lucy's care had provided for me. A machine on the same principle had a short time before my arrival received the patent. Then, as I returned, I said to myself, There is but one way. The avails of my shop had of late a little increased. 'Every week,' said I, 'I will put by a certain sum. Trifling it must be, but in time it will amount to my debt.' I set about my plan at once. As in my greatest strait the necessities of my family only were met from this time, all tender claims throughout my household grew silent. The little wants of my children-of my feeble wife-I shut my eyes and ears to them, till they had no longer utterance. My children from the first had known little of the common pastimes and privileges of childhood. At ten years of age my oldest boy worked at my side, with the glare of the forge on his soft face, from the sun's rising to its set; while his twin sister, with a constitution as delicate as her mother's, toiled through the greater portion of our household drudgery. 
               "'At the time you were first here, some changes had taken place. More than half what I owed had been gathered. Lucy,-she bore her mother's name,-was, you remember, only braiding straw-the only task the thin hands could then labor at; and my boy (you did not see him when he wrought in the shop) was a life cripple. There was yet another change, ere you had scarcely left us. The young boy then at Lucy's side-he with the large, brown eyes, was taken suddenly ill. His mother called me to look at him when I came in late from my work, and was disturbed and anxious. I thought her unnecessarily alarmed, but insisted on her going to bed, and took my seat by the child in her stead. I did not think him very ill; my thoughts were more than usually engrossed with some heavy work I had on hand, and I only occasionally observed him. I saw that he slept-brokenly, 'tis true, but I thought him perhaps overwearied with play. Towards midnight he started from the uneasy slumber, and spoke earnestly, 'Pa, they've got oranges at Mr. L.'s.' 'Well, Archy, we'll get one, one o'these days.' The child lay again silent. I had been in the habit, in order to avoid the temptation of having change about me, whenever I had gathered silver enough to amount to a bill, to part with it in exchange, and then again to put off the small bills thus acquired in change for a large one. That day I had converted the savings of several weeks into a bill, and my last cent of change had been taken in completing the arrangement. My thoughts again wandered from my boy. I was getting heavy with weariness. A half hour had worn on, when he again started from his pillow-'Pa, I wish I had an orange.' I went slowly to my desk. I thought how long the smallest bill in it had required of my week's savings. 'If you want it in the morning, Archy,' said I-'won't that do?' 'Yes,' he replied, laying back meekly on his pillow, 'but kiss me, pa.' I stooped to his face,-there are feelings no man may speak!-his lips and breath were burning! I woke his mother-I clutched my pocketbook. The confectioner's was in a remote part of the town-I thought I should never reach it. When I got back, my boy had sunk to sleep, never again to wake to consciousness! The oranges I brought were untasted. Before the morning sun set, the poor parched lips felt no kiss. I had no tears. I stood calmly by as they laid him in the coffin, and looked at the little clasped hands that would not be stretched to me again for any thing. 
               "'Time wore on-not with healing, there are wounds that bleed always; but I heard its loud calls once more to life's daily interests. Once more the aim of years ruled my daily efforts. It was at last realized! I counted over the sum I had borrowed, with the gathered interest of almost seventeen years. That night I did not sleep. I had just finished a heavy day's work, but I was impatient for the morning. 'I will carry the money,' said I, 'myself to Edward.' How long since I had spoken of him by that old familiar name! But a crowd of early feelings had returned to my heart. 'I will tell him all my griefs-acknowledge all my ingratitude. He shall know I have been less ABJECT than I have seemed, and will give me his regard once more.' With such thoughts I welcomed the first red gleam of day. I dressed myself hurriedly, but stood for some moments looking at my children and their pale mother. The sun, as I went at last on my way, rose in great glory. It was a glory that was new to me. Years had passed since I had noticed the hues of earth or sky-I wondered at their brightness. The breath of heaven, and the morning sounds that were breaking round me, were to me as if I had been a long prisoner. Every thing was full of freshness. I would willingly have paused to mark new colors, and the strange beauty that was in the motion of the leaves; but I grew busy with tenderer thoughts. How new they were to me-the happy plans and feelings that came over me! Sorrow was about to be driven from my dwelling. My toils were to be labors of love. My children and their mother should forget want. Henry should be taken to some healing waters; the basket of straw in Lucy's poor hands should give place to exercise and indulgence; and who should say but that life would come back to her heart, and action to his young limbs? 
               "'Thus I mused on, till Edward's mansion was in sight. Then he took the chief place in my thoughts. A thousand pleasant passages of our boyhood's friendship rose to my memory. I knew myself only in fault for our long years of estrangement. I recalled the look of kindness that during those years I had so often met, and from which I had then turned with such bitter coldness. Now, it seemed shining down into my heart. I passed up the long avenue that led to the house. Why did the shadow of the trees fall so still and heavily? Something about the place struck my heart with a gloom. It was too quiet for such a morning. Not a sound was on my ear but those which I heard in the distance. I looked anxiously round for something or some one to reassure me. A servant came to the door as I reached the steps. It was to tie a crape on the silver knocker. 
               "'Has Judge Chelson,' said I, 'lost any of his family?' My tongue clove to my mouth as I spoke 
               "'Judge Chelson! did you not know'-- 
               "'What?' 
               "'That he is dead!' 
               "'My cup was filled! I passed into the room of death. I uncovered and looked long at the placid face, still impressed with the peace of a spirit that had never harbored unkindness towards a human being. I kissed the cold, stiff hands that would so long since have grasped mine in eager reconciliation. I begged forgiveness for all my long ingratitude as if the dull ear might yet hear me. But these were mockeries-they passed! The sum for which I had trodden under my feet the tenderest human claims, was a few weeks after paid to his executors,-that same day my overtasked and weary Lucy went to sleep on my bosom!" 
             
             
                
               THE PAUPER. 
               "I CAN never get a passing word with Thed Roland," said Mr. Collingwood to our friend Ives one day; "I should think him a little churlish, but that his open and cordial face contradicts it so pointedly. A man, however, with a measuring glance, and a quick tread like his, is not one to hope any thing like gossip with." 
               "You understand him rightly, dear Collingwood. Roland is not only a master workman, but a highly honorable and scrupulous one, and his responsibilities are all engrossing. How often do I think, as I watch the glance you speak of, taking in at a single note so many and often momentous details, of the silent close-minded apprentice, shying off, as he always did, from us all-all indeed but myself. It chanced that I early got the key to his real nature, and Thed and I became special friends. His little story, simple as it is, is worthy a hearing. 
               "He was at the time we were all boys together as isolated in position as he seemed disposed to be in habit-not having a single relative near him; but he had a father yet living in a neighboring State. His master had removed from it to his present residence some three or four years previous, bringing his young apprentice with him; and to this father he was in the habit of writing (such letters as he could, for, poor fellow! he was then but little skilled with the pen) two or three times a year. At a time when he had chanced to neglect this duty somewhat longer than usual, an unlucky casualty deprived him for some weeks of the use of his right hand. I had rendered him some little aid in his first attempts at writing, and he now came to me, evidently with some effort, for yet further service. He wanted me to write a little letter for him to his father,-and would I get some pieces of silver changed for him into a paper dollar?-he thought he had that much-'yes! there's a whole dollar, and a sixpence over,' he said, with a glad smile, not very usual to him, as he poured the minutely coined treasure from his small leathern purse and counted it over. 'I don't like to ask any body to change it for me, for some of the boys are always about, and they make so much sport of me for saving my money up so.' 
               "'And why do you want it changed, Thed?' 
               "'Oh, you're to put it in the letter you are going to write. I always send my money to father as soon as I get a whole dollar.' 
               "'Why, Thed, I should not think your father would like to take from you all your little savings?' 
               "'No more he don't-but he is poor, very poor. I don't mind telling you, Harley, for you ain't set up like some of the other boys are. He's what they call a pauper.' Thed's rather dark cheek reddened as he spoke; it was no easy confession. 'Father was a hard-working man,' he added, 'and would never have come to that if he had not lost his arm.' 
               "'And how did that misfortune happen?' I asked, with the ready pity of my boyish heart. 
               "'Oh, he was unfortunate every way. I remember when we had such a nice little home. I had two brothers and a sister. They were a good deal older than myself, and they were all so kind and loving to me, because I was their little brother. Would you think, Harley, I'd ever been a pet? 'But I learned soon enough what it was to be lonesome and sorrowful. One after another they were all laid on a sick-bed-not as them that are very sick awhile, and get up again: they had always been consumptive-people said it run in our family; and they lay, all of them, such a long time. There was sickness and trouble in the house, till I forgot my plays, and went creeping through it from morning till night; for them that had learnt 'em to me, and used to play with me sometimes, could not bear their noise. While his children lay so sick, father could not work, and he got in debt for doctoring and things they needed. Poor mother had always been sickly, but she kept up like, for their sake, till my sweet sister, the last one of 'em, died; and then she gave up, and they soon laid her side of 'em. But father, poor father, had every kind of trouble. Only two or three days before mother died, as he set one night 'side of her bed, a' most wore out a watching, he got heavy asleep; and when he wakened, the house was all afire. He took poor mother in his arms, and carried her down stairs, and got her out safe, for he wrapt her all up in a blanket; but he got burnt himself so shocking, and he had not the right care took of him, for he could not think of himself, while mother lay at one of the neighbors, all one as dying; and when she was gone, it was too late. The doctors had to take off his right arm, and the other was a'most disabled. He lay a long time a suffering, and when he got up he had nothing left in the world. They put him on the county, and I, that might have been some comfort to him, they bound me to a master that was to learn me his trade, when I got big enough, and he brought me off here directly after. 
               "'It's no use crying, I know,' he said, as the tears rolled over his face, 'but father cried when I left him, and I had not seen him cry before, with all his trouble, and I always feel so bad when I think of it.' 
               "The genuine manliness of Thed's spirit soon overcame his tears. 'He shan't be a pauper always,' he said, suddenly drying them; 'not if there's any thing in thinking. I say this to myself by night and by day. Last night I dreamed about it. I thought Alice, my sister, was leaning over me, looking so fair and smiling, and whispered to my brothers, who came and stood 'side of her, 'Father is waiting till his own little Thed can take him out of the pauper-house.'-Well, the years seem long enough, but the time will come. I count 'em up fresh every time one comes round, and they'll get off at last.' 
                
               "Of course they did, and to Theodore, I imagine, far less tediously than he had anticipated. The substantial energies of his character that were developing with every day, afforded him the best of all diversion from a brooding anxiety. The rigid and still undeviating economy that had its source in so holy a motive, narrowed his social habits; but ever, as I met him from time to time, he was growing more and more cheerful. The hope he had cherished so fondly, as he approached manhood, grew strong. At last it was realized. One early autumnal morning, ere the sun had touched the frost on the yellow leaves, he came to me to bid me farewell. His time was out. 
               "'I'm my own man, Harley, and now for my native village.' 
               "I looked at his travelling equipments. 'What! already on your way? free? and not an hour for your friends?' 
               "'Not a single hour. I have not waited so long for this day, to dally when now the sun is fairly up, with a full face on my freedom. Good bye!' and he grasped my hand, with a smile as rich and warm as the hues that the sun was shedding far and near. I could scarcely let him go. It did my heart good to look at him, he appeared so inspirited, so handsome. I had thought him always rather plain, but he was not so now. His dark complexion was brightened by the keen frosty air; his eye, always a good one, sparkled with pleasure; his fine tall limbs seemed instinct with animation. 
               "'And how are you to travel, Thed?' 
               "'On foot.' 
               "'On foot!' 
               "'Yes, it is only two hundred miles.' 
               "'Only!' 
               "In these days of locomotive facilities, what a distance to be thus compassed! But what was it then to the young and vigorous pedestrian? Something almost of envy, as I looked at him, gave, for the first time perhaps in my life, a momentary alloy to my better feelings. I had myself a journey on hand in the same direction, and the stage conveyance that awaited my bidding seemed a thousand times less pleasant than the unfettered pathway before my friend. But cripples must forego privilege. My object, at least that which was constantly obtruding on my thought, was as little exhilarating to my feelings as my mode of travel. I was going to our American emporium-the city that loomed up to my imagination as imposingly wonderful as the Bagdad. In New York I had been led to believe that literary aspirants met with especial encouragement, and I was bound thither to make some disposition of a manuscript of poems-of POEMS! You have yet to learn that I have been a poet; but of that another time-it has nothing to do with my story. 
               "I had found that my route would lead me not only into Thed's native State, but through his own native village; for I was not going directly to the city. Some business of my mother's, who had recently had a small patrimonial estate left her among the Hudson valleys, was to be first attended to; and when I finally parted from Thed it was not without hope that, in the course of my roundabout journey, we might again meet. I was not disappointed. With a few days' delay in starting on my journey, it chanced to bring me, almost at the same moment as my friend, to what was the termination of his. The stage approached a pleasant village, the name of which I had so often seen on Thed's little letters to his father; and there, as I looked earnestly forward, leaning over the railing of a wayside burial-ground, stood Thed himself! Travel-worn indeed he now looked, and mournfully absorbed; but the figure was not to be mistaken. 
               "A previous accident had made some repairs necessary that would detain the stage an hour at the village. I managed to alight at once, ignoring all decrepitude, as I hobbled up to him and laid my hand on his shoulder. I was as much delighted as if we had been parted an age. The moment had been to him one of tender and most saddened emotion, but his moist eyes, as he turned towards me, were as full of gladness as my own heart. 
               "'I know now,' he said, grasping my hand, 'that my father is living. Yonder are the graves of my family, and there's no new one. Ah! the weeds have long since overrun the violets I planted by mother's and Alice's graves! But I can't linger even here,' he said, turning away; 'every moment is a wrong to my father.' 
                
               "We walked on with but few words, for emotions like his were not for utterance. A large building in poor repair was before us, and his eye rested on it with an interest I easily understood. 
               "'Are the county poor still kept here?' he asked of one that was passing. 'Go in with me, Harley,' he said, as the answer was given; 'I have not courage to meet my father by myself. Besides, he is old and feeble, and I fear it will be too much for him. You can break it to him better than I can.' We went in together. 
               "'We would see Mr. Roland,' said I to a coarse-looking man, who met us as the keeper of the establishment. 
               "'Roland? Oh, that's old Uncle Paul, I s'pose. Well, he's in here with the rest of 'em,' said he, leading the way; 'that's the old man, reading his Bible. You might know him by that 'ere token.' 
               "It would have been easy to distinguish the father of Theodore Roland without the rude announcement. Such asylums present, at best, but assemblages of wretchedness; but as I glanced over the maimed, the sick, the idiotic, my eye had already rested instinctively on the venerable old man we sought; venerable not only in years, but in the decency of outward show, still preserved through his low estate, and in the perfect meekness of sorrow that sat on his furrowed face. 
               "'If you are Mr. Roland,' said I, approaching him with heartfelt reverence, as I turned from the coarse laugh of the keeper; 'I bring you some news from your son.' 
               "'Ah! God bless you, young man. I've been looking for news. What of my boy, young stranger?' 
               "'He is quite well; he will soon be with you.' 
               "'Ah! I had thought he would not wait hardly till this time. His 'prenticeship is out, surely; I've counted the time over and again. But he won't delay without good reason. Do you know him well, young stranger?' 
               "'Oh, very well; we have been friends since we were but boys.' 
                
               "'You may guess, then, he's the best of sons. How does he look, dear young man? I have kept his pretty face in my mind yet, as he looked when I set my eyes on him last; but I reckon he's mightily altered.' 
               "'Changed some, no doubt. I remember him rather a puny fellow; but he stands in his shoes now some six feet, I think-pretty good-looking, too-something,' said I, glancing at my friend, 'like the young man here who came with me.' 
               "The old man lifted his eyes for the first time to the tall form of his son, and looked at him earnestly. Theodore came forward. 
               "'Father! dear father!' His tears, as well they might, were falling like rain, and the old man sank in the strong arms of his boy. Scenes are hourly passing in life's humbler places, more touching than in its prouder walks. The effects of joy are seldom injurious. Uncle Paul was soon in the full realization of his happiness, and most pleasant was it to listen to the outpourings of the son's and the father's heart. 
               "'I have but an empty purse, father, for I would not stay for work or money; but I have a good trade. I'm a good workman,'-how full of honest pride the assertion seemed-'and I shall soon find work. I shall take you from here instantly, and we'll find board for you in some good family in the village till I get employment.' 
               "'There's no hurry, son; no hurry. We'll wait till you are sure of it.' 
               "'Not an hour, father! not a single hour. I'm going out this moment to look a place for you. My friend here will sit with you awhile, and he will be good company for you, father, for he will tell you all the good of your boy he can think of.' 
               "I certainly was not backward in doing justice to Thed in his absence. It was, in truth, no cheap privilege to pour into the old man's ear the praises so grateful to it-praises to which he listened with more of humble thankfulness even than of delight. As his look of deep, inner thanksgiving silenced me for a moment, I noticed a little girl, some ten years of age, who stood in the door, and was looking wistfully at Uncle Paul, as if the presence of the stranger to whom he had been listening alone kept her from advancing. The extreme beauty of the child fastened my gaze. It was of such a peculiar cast, fair, soft, tender, loving-fair and soft as the most delicate flower, and loving and tender in its whole expression, as the look that only the mother meets in the eyes of her babe. I looked at her till Uncle Paul's eye followed mine. 
               "'Come here, Rosa,' he said, in an accent of great fondness; 'I've something to tell you.' The child flung back the heavy curls of light brown that clustered on her neck, and glided softly to his knees. He put his one arm around her, and pressed her to him closely. 
               "'Uncle Paul's going to leave you, Rosa. I know you will be sorry, but you must be glad too, just as he is; for he is sorry to leave his pretty Daisy, but he is glad of the reason. My son has come, Rosa-the little boy, though he is a big man now, that I've told you of sometimes.' 
               "'Are you going away, Uncle Paul?' said the child, seeming to have lost all the rest in that one point. 
               "'Yes, and very shortly, Rosa-may-be within an hour.' 
               "The child did not speak, but tears gathered in her large blue eyes, and fell one by one in great drops over her velvet cheek. Still as they flowed she wiped them off with her apron, as if she would not have them seen, and yet they still came. Uncle Paul was wise enough not to notice them; he only kissed her cheek, and said, 'You are a good girl, Daisy; you wouldn't make Uncle Paul sorrier by crying. Go, now, and bring your little Bible to me. There is some word in it especially for little hearts that are grieved, and I must mark it for you, Rosa.' The child went silently and slowly to obey him. 
               "'A nice child, isn't it?' said Uncle Paul; 'I call her Daisy, because she puts me in mind so of some pretty flower; and would you think it? that hard, coarse man, that has the poor here in his charge, is her father. I have heard say her mother was fair and tender like her, and may-be it's no wonder she left her pretty baby, but just born, I hope for a better world. But her place is now filled by a woman as coarse as the father, and poor little Rosa is not cared for. Not that they ill-treat her, that I know of, but neglect is the worst of unkindness. They don't even send her to school; much less do they look to see whether weeds aint growing where they don't plant anything else.' 
               "Rosa returned with her little Bible, and the old man turned from me to look over its leaves. 
               "'Do you know how to read, Rosa?' 
               "'Yes, Uncle Paul learned me; he learned me so many little hymns, and now I sing 'em for him.' 
               "'Ah!' said Uncle Paul, looking up earnestly, 'teaching her, and the letters of my boy, have been the great comforts of my life. It wasn't no labor-she was too apt for that; but it brought her round me, with her pretty little loving ways; and moreover, I had it to think, that old Uncle Paul was not yet so poor in this life, but there was one he could be of service to.' 
               "'Uncle Paul give me my little Bible,' said Rosa, 'for my New Year's gift. I know 'twas his gift, though he said it wasn't-not so much as it was of one that sent him the money to buy it.' 
               "'And that's him that has come for me, Rosa; you know I must go willingly.' The little girl's face again saddened. 
               "A very lively sympathy in their simple interests was fast growing upon me, when the stage-horn sounded from the hotel. A most unwelcome interruption it was, but the summons was imperative, and I was whirled away from the village, while the somewhat loitering Theodore, I thought, was yet absent upon his mission. 
               "It was more than eight years before I again saw him. I was then travelling as an agent once more in his native State, and through a part of it not very remote from the scenes where I had been so greatly interested. At the close of a wretchedly stormy day, I found myself at the outskirts of one of its many thriving villages, drenched, miserable, shivering, so that I looked almost enviously at a new cottage residence I was passing, which had the undefinable air of neatness and comfort, so plainly bespeaking speaking industry and thrift. A shop was attached to it, and a young man just looking out from it, seemed taking a view of the weather preparatory to closing it for the night. He was whistling the most familiar of airs, for it was our own 'Yankee Doodle'-the same notes, I remember, that little Thed always whistled-though in the lowest of tones, and with a demureness of aspect at striking variance with the air, when he was trying to get rid of impertinent importunity. 
               "The reins slackened in my hands as I looked in his face. 'Can you tell me,' said I, 'in what part of the village I shall find the nearest hotel?' 
               "'I should know that voice,' he answered; 'Harley Ives, as I live! and in this weather!' He was instantly at my side; he almost lifted me from my little vehicle, and bore me half on his strong arms to the house. 'We will go through my shop; it is yet warm there, and these wet clothes must be put off, before I take you into my family.' 
               "'Family! You are richer then, indeed, than when we parted. I dreamt not of you being married.' 
               "'Why, yes, I've a little wife, that I almost think is an acquaintance of yours.' 
               "'Who? when? where? you can't expect fewer questions from such a declaration.' 
               "'Oh! that is for you to ascertain. I shall go into no particulars. Come, you'll do now; your overcoat has taken most of the storm. You haven't changed any that I see, Harley; even Uncle Paul, I think, will be apt to know you.' 
               "'Your father?-the good old man then is still living?' 
               "'Living, and enjoying,' said my friend; 'Uncle Paul both takes and gives comfort in large draughts. Time has come to a stand still with him; he's no older than when you last saw him.' 
               "We passed into the house. Thed opened the door of a small room, where the very atmosphere was redolent of comfort. 'No older indeed,' thought I. Most bright, most beautiful, around the brow of the white-headed old man, did the halo of a good life rest. Uncle Paul was sitting-not musing, nor idle-he was learning a lovely boy that sat on his knee to count on his own rosy fingers. A young woman, with one arm resting on the old man's chair, stood listening in smiling delight to the oft-repeated failures. What a group for a painter! the happy old man, the laughing baby-learner, the exceedingly young and fair mother-for none but a mother would have so looked. Our friend Thed was rather a matter-of-fact fellow, but he stood for a moment before presenting me, with a look that said, as clearly as man's face might say, 'Isn't it a picture, Harley?' 
               "Uncle Paul found no difficulty in remembering me. The recognition, carrying him back to a moment of joyful interest, rippled his already happy feelings into sparkles. The young wife welcomed me, more with her soft eyes than with her brief words, and then slid quietly from the room, doubtless to prepare supper for the guest. I had not looked at her without earnestly inquiring interest. The face, the expression, had something in them familiar; but it was in vain that I racked my memory for the identity. The remembrance, if remembrance it were, was of a vision fair, but fading with the dream that brought it me. Shortly after, the arrangement of the tea-service brought her back for a moment into the room. Her child's golden head was drooping heavily on the grandfather's bosom. 
               "'Is little Paul asleep, father?' she asked, pausing as if to relieve him of his burden. 
               "'Let him be a while, Rosa.' 
               "The whole misty uncertainty cleared up! 'Rosa!' I exclaimed, my heart stirred to its very core with pleasure, 'Rosa! Uncle Paul's little 'Daisy'-daisy still as fresh, as fair, as-ah, Thed! such bud might well be marked, that you might make it your own in its full bloom.' 
               "Thed did his very best to look dry. Rosa acknowledged my claim to acquaintance with the softest of smiles, permitting me even to seal it on her own glowing cheek, and then stole back to the completion of her supper. But Uncle Paul, when he came at last to fairly understand the bearing of the matter,-never had age before a moment of such exultant enjoyment. 
                
               "'My own Daisy, to be sure; and so Theodore hadn't told you any thing about it? But you hadn't forgot my little girl, eh? You could not easy-just the same now she was then-just the same, only she leads Uncle Paul now, and he used to lead her. Things don't often come round so, Mr. Ives.' 
               "Thed looked a little relieved when Rosa came at last to lay little Paul from the grandfather's arms. Supper was ready, and the old man's deeply reverential heart grew stilled, as he remembered the thanksgiving he was wont to utter. The young wife, after supper, sat with us a pleasant half hour. Uncle Paul, overwearied with the excitement of the hour, grew heavy, and his daughter-in-law rose, as was evidently her wont, to attend him to his pillow. My friend went to make some final adjustments in his shop, and from sheer fulness of heart I followed him. 
               "'Upon my word, Thed, I've strong suspicions I aint as free from envy as I might be. What a lucky fellow you have been! I'd like to hear how this most happy conjunction, as Uncle Paul says, came round.' 
               "''Tis no great story,' said my friend, 'and I'm a poor hand any way at telling one; but I've got to wait till this fire burns out a little. Well, there was nothing more after our parting of any account, as I remember, for a long, long time. I left that place, however, right away. Chance threw me into the employment of a man that owned property here, and was putting up a row of houses for renting. When my engagement with him terminated, I had others on my hands; and I remained here working at my trade, with high health and good prospects, some five or six years. I had my father with me from the first, always boarding him in some pleasant family near my work. He was very contented. He had some regrets for the little girl that seemed to have been so dear to him, and was at times a little impatient of my daily though unavoidable absence; but on the whole was quite happy, and of course I was. 
               "'I was at last induced to engage in a heavy job, that took me back once more to my own village. My father at the time was more pleasantly accommodated than usual, and had chosen to remain where he was. The whole season wore away in the completion of my work, but somehow it did not pass tediously. I had met a young woman in whom I felt some interest, from finding that she was the child that, I had learned from my father, had so greatly lessened to him the heaviness of the house of charity. Her father was dead, and poor Rosa went out to service. I met her weekly at the Sabbath-school of the village. My own narrow school privileges, when a boy, made Sabbath-schools a most pleasant thing to me at all times; and in this I had early enrolled myself as a teacher. She, too, was one among the younger female teachers; and her manner, a little mournful, it seemed to me, but always gentle-like, confirmed the interest I felt in her. Somehow, I often found it necessary to speak to her upon some matter connected with the school, and we became almost acquaintances. In truth, I got to thinking of her at times, when there was no occasion for it. 
               "'But my job was done, and my father most impatient for my return. I was making my arrangements to leave,-though her young face was rather troublesome between me and whatever I was doing. The last night of my stay I was called upon, with some other young persons, to sit up at a wake. The female superintendent of the school I had assisted in, a worthy woman, exceedingly beloved by those to whom she had thus given years of care, was suddenly called from her labors. Rosa had been rendering some assistance in the house of death, and on entering it myself I caught a moment's glimpse of her; but she did not see me, and the deep sorrow of her face prevented my speaking to her. The watchers sat in a room apart from the dead; and as the night wore away, all but myself dropped off, one after another, to slumber. My own thoughts were too busy for any thing like drowsiness. I had sat for some time with no sound but the breathings of those near me, when the silence was broken by low sobs, and murmurs from the adjoining room. The door was ajar, and stepping to it lightly, I saw poor Rosa kneeling by the corpse, and giving way to the outpourings of what was plain enough a bitter sorrow. My feelings took me to her instantly, but my attempts to speak comfort were halting enough. Unskilled as I am in what you call sentiment, you may guess what poor work I made of it. 
               "'Don't weep so, Rosa-you're breaking your own heart. You've lost a kind friend, no doubt, but don't, don't take it so hardly.' 
               "'My heart is broke already,' said Rosa; 'a kind friend,' she added, with tears,-words that seemed more the outbreak of sorrow than directed to me,-'other people have been kind, a great many of them; but who, besides Uncle Paul, has been to me what she was?' 
               "'And who is Uncle Paul?' I asked, desirous of settling a point in which I began to feel some little interest. During my brief stay in the village, while Rosa was yet a child, I had seen her once-but once only. I met her in leaving my father, but she then passed me, as I recollected, without at all noticing me; and I was now utterly at a loss to determine whether she was aware of the relationship in which I stood to her early friend. 
               "'Who is it that you call Uncle Paul?' said I. 
               "'Oh, it is one you do not know of-a dear, blessed old man-he that was the first to learn me any thing of good, and to tell me of my Father in heaven.' 
               "'But, Rosa, he has some name beside Uncle Paul?' 
               "'Well-yes, I suppose so, but I can't tell you it; I always heard him called only Uncle Paul, and it is so long-so long since he went away from me.' 
               "'But you have remembered all his lessons?' 
               "'Oh, not all-I had begun to forget so much! but there was one thing I did not forget. It was because he had charged me, when I had at last freedom to go,-for my poor father did not like me to,-to go to Sabbath-school. And so it was through him that I found one more friend to care for me as he had done. But I've lost 'em both now.' 
               "'But Uncle Paul,' said I, as her tears flowed anew, 'is probably living. Suppose you were to meet him again, Rosa, and find him old, feeble, and helpless. Would you give the strength of your young life in helping to make him comfortable?' 
                
               "'Oh! wouldn't I? gladly! so gladly! But that would be too great a happiness for me.' 
               "'Rosa,' said I, taking her hand, 'Uncle Paul is my father!'--I believe,' said my friend, suddenly stopping, with a rather flushed cheek, 'that I have told about enough. Lovers' understandings are sillier than can enter into a man's imagination. When I left the village, however, Rosa had promised to be my wife, and I had only to get my father's sanction, and a home prepared for the reception of my bride. I had already purchased a suburban lot in the village, and had soon the small house completed, that, with some additions since made, is my present residence. I brought my father to look at it. 
               "'How would you like, father, that I should get a little housekeeper of my own, and your home be with us?' 
               "'Why, your own liking, Theodore, must settle that, not mine.' But my father didn't look quite pleased-a perceptible shade passed over his always kind face. 
               "'May-be,' said he, 'the young wife might not like the old man in her way.' 
               "'My dear father!' It was all I could say. I was truly pained that such a thought should have taken possession of his mind even for a moment; but I was too intent on giving him a pleasant surprise, to make the disclosure that would dispel it. He had questioned me of Rosa when I returned from the place where he had so regretfully left his little favorite. I was glad to find that the image he kept of her was still that of a child; and though I spoke of meeting her at Sabbath-school-for that, I knew, would give him pleasure,-I managed to evade any further communication. I soothed him as I best might, without the talisman of her name; and as all was now in readiness, I hastened back to Rosa to fulfil my engagement. We were married. I brought my bride immediately to our new home. The next morning, while she was preparing breakfast, I went to bring Uncle Paul. The poor old man tried to greet me cheerfully, but the kind tones had a little of sadness in them; he was feeble, and any thing of change was an unpleasant effort. Our walk, however ever, was not long. Rosa met us at the little gate. She clasped her arms around his neck with a perfect wildness of joy. 'Uncle Paul!-dear Uncle Paul!-I've met you once more at last, and now I'm your, own little girl, and nobody's else, for ever, and for good!' 
               "'My father was wholly bewildered; he looked earnestly at her, but his sight had grown dim. 'Why, dear child! who are you? I can't call you to mind, though you speak so kind to the old man. In that, you might be my little Rosa; and you are pretty, too, like her; but she isn't near grown up.' 
               "'Oh yes, father! Rosa is about as much grown as this young girl, I think!' 
               "'But come in, dear Uncle Paul; you're shivering with cold. Come in, and Theodore will tell you all about it,' said Rosa, as she conducted him into the house, and got him, in her coaxing way, seated in the easy-chair she had already fitted for him. Still the old man looked around him in anxious bewilderment. 
               "'But where's your wife, Theodore?' 
               "'She has introduced herself to you, father, already; the young woman beside you is your daughter-in-law.' 
               "'And I'm your own Rosa,' she exclaimed, again clasping his neck, and kissing his withered cheek like a glad child; 'your very own Rosa, dear father-dear Uncle Paul! aint you going to own me?' 
               "'The whole matter at last grew clear to him. I'm a hardhearted fellow enough, Harley, but I could not keep from tears at the old man's joy. We sat down at last to our little breakfast, and I would not have thanked the king for his crown. 
               "'I certainly ran some risk,' said my friend, recovering, after a moment's pause, his usual matter-of-fact manner, 'for my wife in reality was little more than a child. But she had had other lessons besides those of Uncle Paul and her Sabbath teachers. Her life's school had been so far a pretty harsh one, and its trainings had not been useless to her. Besides, the love and reverence she had for my father laid a foundation for much happiness. My cares, on the whole,-perhaps I might better say my anxieties,- were rather lessened than increased. The father and daughter-in-law were all in all to each other; they took counsel together in all the little difficulties of household management. His early family trials had familiarized him with many of the details of domestic experience, and Rosa was not slow in improving his suggestions to the utmost. Her cares have been increased, but Uncle Paul finds an ample equivalent, in his grandson, for the mother's divided attentions. An argosy from the Indies would have been little to him to the wealth bestowed on him, when I laid on his lap the small bit of mortality in lace and cambric that Rosa called Little Paul.' 
               "My friend Thed's story was finished. We adjourned back to the pleasant little room, that Rosa's smiles cheered and warmed even more than the bright anthracite fire; and when I left them on the morrow, I carried with me a picture of the happy house-hold, to which the somewhat mournful images that had their lodgment in my heart gave frequent place as I journeyed onward. Subsequently, as the flood-tide of change swept the place he resided in of its business prospects, he found it expedient to remove, and finally leave the State altogether. It is some years since he fixed his residence permanently in the city, which has grown, and is still growing, so rapidly, in the neighborhood of his apprenticeship. He is a man of both substance and character. Uncle Paul has fallen on sleep, and the young Paul, after working with his father till pretty well versed in his craft, was sent to college; the latter maintaining that a mechanic, of all others, may make educational privilege the most availing. Among the family of charming daughters that have grown up around my friend, the beauty that was once the mother's-that is so still, as far as the expression of a gentle and happy spirit goes-is reflected in more than one face. 
               "Thed himself, though I need scarcely add that, is as active as persevering, as energetic, as in his palmiest days. He is now engaged in the erection of a large public building, intended as an asylum for the poor; and I learn that he is one of the principal donors of the work-giving his labor free to the amount of several hundreds, upon condition that some especial department, subject to his arrangement, be made for those who are destitute only, and not degraded. 
             
             
                
               THE FAMILY HISTORY. 
               I WAS myself a personage of no small importance at the Grove. The new world, that had been redeemed from ancient wildernesses while our friend Collingwood was yet an alien from his native land, was a subject to him of the liveliest interest; and having been a denizen of it for some years, I was able to answer his frequent questionings with a minuteness that drew around me a circle of earnest listeners. 
               "By-the-bye," said Harley Ives, one day when the favorite topic was engrossing the hour, "I have just thought, Aunt Quiet, of the story I drew from you when I was some time since a brief sojourner in your queen city. Do you know it is the rightful property of the present circle? A story," he added to our host, "embracing the family of Lawrence Ellesly, most the last of all our Grove boys whose history I have been able to gather-the very story for you, dear Collingwood, though I think that Lawrence was not one of your quondam favorites. But apart from the interest that Aunt Quiet can infuse into the narrative, it will take you at once into the fresh green world you have been questioning of since her first arrival." 
               Aunt Quiet (a sobriquet that had been given me by Carry in allusion to the efforts I had made to control her own tameless spirit) was at once looked to on all hands for the story; and that I might not discredit my name, I slid into it as quietly as possible sible-telling it, as I now do to my readers, with no other embellishment but its truthfulness. 
               "I knew nothing of Lawrence Ellesly," said I, "till after he had a family; but I was a distant relation of his, and in my days of early girlhood (that season of vivid and ineffaceable impressions) became an occasional visitant at their house. Yet my recollection of them is rather a picture left on my memory than a detail of facts. 
               "Mr. Ellesly was a proud man, and I remember that, at that time, I had a little shrinking from him; always turning with a sense of relief from his lofty figure and aristocratic expression of countenance (handsome though it was), to the soft and placid features of Mrs. Ellesly. The latter had great refinement of manner and gentleness of nature; but her character, further than her affections and sympathies gave it tone, was wholly negative. Upon those who loved her, and whom she understood, she poured out a whole world of tenderness; but these engrossed the entire wealth of her feelings-though this was rather the effect of her position than of the want of more expansive capabilities of character. They who have a world of flowers growing around their feet, rarely think of the duty of planting them in the yet barren places. 
               "Mrs. Ellesly had two children, a son and a daughter, of nine and seven years, who might well fill any mother's heart. The little Isabel was one of those dark-eyed, sylph-like children, that make you think so of poetry and all that; and Edward-the Edward of whom you spoke, with a face of great beauty, and the air and bearing of a young autocrat, had a mind and manner precociously ripened by all the appliances of hot-bed stimulants. 
               "But with the recollection of his bright face at that period, there always came upon me, for years after, the remembrance of one widely different, under the same roof. It was that of a boy some year or two older. I saw him in the family only at one of my visits, and he certainly added little to its interest; and yet somehow I could never forget him. Even now I can almost fancy him before me. Poor fellow! with his always averted and stupid face, seeming, amid all the interests of a gay household, to have no more part or portion in them than if he had been of a different order of being; and yet was he Mr. Ellesly's eldest son-the child of a former marriage. 
               "Some circumstances connected with this boy will perhaps give you a better idea of the family, as I first knew them, than mere description. At the time I speak of he had been but a few weeks an inmate there, having been from his birth under the care of a maternal aunt in very humble life. Mr. Ellesly, though constitutionally proud, and with a fastidiousness of taste and a devotion to talent that separated him from the vulgar even more widely than his pride, had yet married out of his caste. He never alluded to his first union; and it is probable that he soon awoke from his dream of passion, into which, at a very early age, he had been lulled by the extreme beauty of the young girl he married. But his fetters were also early loosened. Her life passed with the gift of life to her child. She survived that event only long enough to obtain a promise from her husband, to whom at such an hour her appeal could not have been vainly made, that her babe should be left to the care of her sister till it was ten years old. This sister was settled, as I have before remarked, in very humble life, but was without children. She was many years older than Mrs. Ellesly-had had the care of the latter in her own orphan infancy; and the dying mother knew, from the tenderness with which she had been watched over, that her child would be tenderly cared for. 
               "But George, as he was called, had now reached the age at which he was to be reclaimed, and had been consequently brought home. Most unfortunately, he seemed to have inherited nothing of his mother's beauty; still less, of the patrician elegance and high-bred manner of his father. He was large for his years-shy, awkward, and rustic to uncouthness; and the pride of Mr. Ellesly was hurt whenever the child met his eye. The contrast afforded to his other children could but be painful, and it was perhaps impossible that he should regard them all with the same feelings. Edward, with all his acquirements, had a tameless flow of busy glee that sent him through the house like some leaping stream, sparkling and gladdening. But George moped or skulked through it like some conscious delinquent; never lifting his eye to meet yours; never answering, when spoken to, but the monosyllabic yes or no, from which he could not escape; and meeting the stern reprehensions of his father, for his perpetual awkwardness, with an aspect of stolid indifference. And yet I have since remembered something in its expression, that, to a kinder or more experienced eye than was mine at that time, would have bespoken the bitter swelling of a young heart unable to plead its own cause, rather than sulkiness and stupidity. But whatever wrought in the depths of that childish heart, there was nothing about him to wake an interest in its study. He put forth no claims upon any one's sympathy or tenderness; no one dreamed that he ever felt. Mrs. Ellesly's manner towards him was always gentle-she could not have been otherwise towards a wilful offender; but even the quiet smile, which was all the notice she bestowed upon his blunders, evinced indifference. She would hardly have known how to win her way to his feelings, had she deemed him possessed of any; as it was, she thought not of the effort. 
               "Meanwhile the poor boy was subjected to contumelies of which she was wholly unaware. Some juvenile relatives of Mrs. Ellesly were at that time her visitants. Children are not always the angels, poets and painters choose to make them. The veriest little elf that can fashion a jeer, often takes upon himself all the insolence of superior advantage, in whatever shape it exists. Edward's fashionable cousins were not slow to discover in the country-bred boy a fit subject for malicious merriment. Even the young Edward, though possessing a more generous nature, gradually caught the tone. His own high breeding gave him a quick and keen sense of George's deficiencies. He felt that he was gawky and uncomely, and he thought him ungracious and unloving. There had been nothing awakened in Edward's heart, of better feeling toward his unlucky brother, to counteract his own love of mischief. George had a bird, for which his engrossing care, had we thought it worth our while to notice such manifestations tions, would have given us some clue to the affectionate susceptibility of his young nature. Claiming not the notice of others for his favorite, he would steal away to its cage in silence, and, unless bidden from it, remain perhaps for hours, intently watching its movements, and apparently regardless of every other living thing. 
               "'I would not have a bird that was too stupid to sing, George,' said Edward one day, as the former stood feeding his little prisoner; 'stand away,' he continued, pushing him aside, and taking the bird from the cage in no very tender manner. 'Come, George, I'll give it to the cat, and pa shall get you a canary.' 
               "'Don't take it from the cage, Edward,' said George, anxiously, and even earnestly-it was the first time I had heard him speak so much; 'you'll let it go, and something will happen to it.' 
               "'I'd be glad if there would,' said Edward; 'I'm tired of seeing you fuss with it,-and such a splendid cage, too! I wonder pa let you bring it here; Lydia shall take it to the kitchen for kindling wood.' 
               "'I heard your ma say,' said I, touched to something like interest for the aggrieved boy, 'that she must get a new cage for George's bird.' 
               "'I don't want another cage,' exclaimed George; 'I like this best; Aunt Mary got Uncle to make this for me himself, and I won't have another. But you'll kill the bird, Edward, handling it in that way! Give it to me, I say!' continued he, anxiously, at the same time approaching his brother, and striving vainly to take it from him. 
               "'You'll wait till I'm ready to give it to you, won't you? If you are bigger than I am, Mr. George, you'll not get it till I'm done with it;' and the young tormentor sprang into a chair, and held the bird as high as he could reach. George still pressed upon him, and in the eagerness of resistance, Edward lost his balance and fell. His grasp upon the bird had been unconsciously tightened. 
               "'You've killed it,' cried George, 'I knew you would.' 
                
               "Edward loosened his fingers, and looked at the bird with some anxiety. It gasped, as if dying. George took it from him, for he no longer resisted, with a look of anguish. It gasped once more, and then lay motionless in his hand. It was dead! 
               "Edward thought it expedient to be badly hurt with his fall. 'What is the matter?' inquired Mr. Ellesly, who happened that moment to enter; 'what ails you, Edward?' 
               "Our young visitants explained. George had knocked him out of a chair because he had taken his bird a minute, and killed the bird itself getting it away from him. Mr. Ellesly looked at his first-born with an expression of bitter anger, dislike, and hatred. 
               "'You incorrigible booby! your stupidity hardly needs the set-off of ill-nature, sir.' 
               "His tone was severer than his words. Then turning to Edward with a look wholly changed, he drew him fondly away, as if unwilling to trust himself to say more. Some hours afterwards I passed George sitting upon the hall steps, with his dead bird upon his lap. His eyes were yet riveted upon the little lifeless thing, and the tears were coursing silently, but in large drops, down his face. My heart smote me for not having defended him. 
               "'Never mind your bird, George,' said I, touched at last to even painful compassion; 'I'll tell your father that you were not to blame, and he will get you another.' 
               "'I don't want another,' said George, 'I liked this because it liked me, and always hopped to meet me when I came towards it; and when they brought me here, it was all they'd let me keep; and now I ha'n't nothing in the wide world to care for.' 
               "'Well, George, I am very, very sorry for you. I wish I could do something to give you comfort. If there is any thing you want'- 
               "'I don't want nothing now,' said the child, sobbing, 'but to go to Aunt Mary's once more.' 
               "'Why don't you ask leave to go, then, George?' 
               "'Oh, because-because whenever I talk of Aunt Mary, Edward and his cousins laugh; and when they see any body that looks poor and mean, they always ask if that is not some other of George's relations.' 
               "I felt that I ought to turn informer, but the duty was an unpleasant one; and I strove to find some commutation of it. 
               "'Well, George, I will ask for you; you shall go to see Aunt Mary.' 
               "Impatient to fulfil my promise, I took my time to ask indiscreetly; not even waiting till the bird-scene-which I had not yet the moral courage to explain to Mr. Ellesly-was forgotten; nay, still worse, at the moment of a fresh displeasure. I did not see Mr. Ellesly till evening, when I met him in a stroll I had taken with the other children, and in which, for the first time, I had drawn George along with us. But at the moment of meeting with him, George had started from our path to speak with a coarsely dressed man, laboring by the way-side. It was his mother's brother, and Mr. Ellesly's countenance darkened. A little discretion would have taught me better than to speak at that moment; but an impulsive girl of fifteen is a bad diplomatist. George's glad face, glad for the first time that I had seen it, as he met the affectionate greeting of his uncle, reminded me of my morning's promise, and I preferred my petition at once. Mr. Ellesly gave a stern and decided refusal; and he added to George, in a low and bitter voice, as we now turned homeward, that the society of the Rawsons (that was his mother's name) was not particularly calculated to improve his manners. 
               "Some days after this, Mrs. Ellesly deputed me on an errand of charity a little way from the city, and once more I called upon George to accompany me. I had noticed, since my ill-timed petition, that he was more moping than usual. His cheek had become sallow, his step more heavy. He would sit for hours upon the door-steps, with his eyes fixed upon the vacant distance. He obeyed my summons, however, and I strove during our walk to draw him into some childish confab. The effort was vain. A morbid inertness seemed to have taken entire possession of his faculties. Yet I noticed, as we reached the outskirts of the city on our return, that his languid eye settled on the road that led from it in a certain direction with a kind of troubled interest. 
               "'Ah! George, you want to get out into the country,' I said; 'and no wonder. Who does not pine for the old shady trees and the mossy brooks, when pent up as we are in the hot city.' 
               "But I was all unheard. A decent, but humble looking woman, who seemed to have been on some errand to the town, and to be now hastening homeward, was approaching us. George's gaze was fixed upon her with an earnestness that absorbed all other perception, and he at last sprang towards her with a loud cry of joy. 
               "'Aunt Mary! Aunt Mary!' 
               "The boy absolutely trembled with excess of delight as he was folded to her bosom. The woman sat down by the roadside and took him in her arms. She kissed his lips, his cheek, his eyes, and then folded him again and again to her heart with a fondness even of passion. I could almost have cried to see them. No wonder George's little heart had frozen in his removal from the warmth of such a love. 
               "'George! my blessed George! my own dear little boy! But you have got so light; and your eyes, that used to be so bright, are all dead, and sunk in your head.' 
               "'Aunt Mary! Oh, Aunt Mary! take me home with you. I can't stay here. Let me go and see dear Uncle once more, and stay with you again always.' 
               "'Dear! dear!' said Aunt Mary, with that pathos and tone of manner which impassioned feeling calls forth from all ranks alike-'that I should hear you ask that, and not take you. God knows how dark the house is since they took you away, and your little bed looks like a coffin to me; but your papa, you know, would not hear to it now; and surely all are kind to you, dear,-aint they, George?' George did not answer. 'To be sure, they can't in nature be cross to you, for aint you your own papa's son? and your mamma that is now, don't look like one to be sharp with a dead woman's child.' 
               "'Mrs. Ellesly,' said I, for my genuine sympathy got the better of my girlish shyness, and I made myself a party concerned sans ceremonie, 'Mrs. Ellesly is very kind and tender to every one, and Mr. Ellesly must, of course, think much of his son; but George, you know, is almost a stranger with us yet, and 'twill take some time to make him feel quite at home.' 
               "'Yes, yes,' said Aunt Mary, 'that can't be helped; but then I thought they meant to let him come and stay with us now and again, and then he would not take it so hard.' 
               "'Let me go with you now, then,' repeated George, sobbing. 
               "'Not without leave, dear-I can't take you without their leave; but you go home and ask, George, and I will wait here for you,' she continued, glancing at the sun, 'if it makes dead night before I get home.' 
               "'They won't let me go,' said the child bitterly; 'they don't mean to let me come any more at all. Father scolded me for stopping by the road to speak to poor Uncle John.' 
               "An expression of honest and indignant pride crossed Aunt Mary's face, and she evidently struggled to suppress its rising utterance. 'Ah! well, I suppose they'd have you forget your dead mamma's relations now, and it may be its all for the best. You are getting older, George, and will have to learn new ways. Good bye, my dear boy,' she added, in a choked voice, as she tried at last to put him from her. She had obviously striven with her own feelings for the sake of the child. 'Good bye, George; you've got such a fine home now, and such fine clothes, and they'll make you such a grand scholar.' 
               "'I hate my fine clothes,' said George, 'and they all laugh at me at school, and I'll never learn as much as Edward knows now; and nobody loves me any more at all.' 
               "Aunt Mary's tears burst forth afresh, and she wept over him long and bitterly. But the scene had at last to be ended. Aunt Mary had bestowed upon him her final kiss, and turned away. 
               "Young as I was, I was certainly to blame that I did not try to make an interest for George in Mrs. Ellesly's feelings, by telling her of his griefs. It seems strange to me that in our world of 'suffering, sad humanity,' there is so little skill in binding up each other's wounds, and so little tact in perceiving them, or in appreciating their anguish. Had George had any more palpable woes,-had he been beaten, or overtasked, or stinted in food or clothing,-my sympathies would have been all in arms. As it was, I deemed his sorrows but things of the moment; and when his tears were dried up, I forgot, as I supposed them forgotten, for they were griefs of which I had no real conception. Most children, apart from the large endowment of parental love, are objects of fond interest to all around them; and perhaps there is no sorrow so little understood as the desolateness of a childish but sensitive heart, under those disadvantages of person or manner, which shut them out from that common interest. 
               "'Mother,' said Edward, the morning after our walk, 'George is not up yet, and it will soon be school-time. I believe he is ill, too, for he is very pale, and has eaten nothing these three days.' 
               "Mrs. Ellesly rose to go to his room. Her gentle nature was somewhat stirred-she had herself observed for some time that he looked thin and feeble; and she hastened to his pillow. She found him indeed ill. A low, nervous fever, superinduced, perhaps equally, by habitudes to which he was unaccustomed, and the deep dejection that had settled upon his young nature, had wrought upon him for days, and he was now reduced to almost infantine weakness. Advice was called, and Mrs. Ellesly saw that he had the most careful attendance; but his disease was of too quiet a nature to awaken any special alarm, and for some time it made little interruption to the gayety of the household. At last, however, as from time to time the family looked in upon the little boy, his appearance roused our fears. We gathered around his bed, and looked upon him in sorrow and silence. Even the father stood and gazed upon his disregarded child; nature, though perhaps faintly, was at last in his heart. Emaciated, motionless, and corpse-like, the child lay with closed eyes, and a seeming unconsciousness of all around him. His father, for the first time, took the little pallid hand in his; the pulse scarcely moved. 
                
               "'George,' said Mr. Ellesly, 'my poor George! what can we do for you? I fear you are getting worse.' 
               "The child did not speak, nor open his eyes, but a single tear forced its way through the closed lid, and lay for some time like a drop of dew upon his ashy cheek. Mr. Ellesly turned away and sighed heavily. 
               "'If we could only rouse him,' said the physician, 'if we could stir any chord of interest in the child's feelings.' 
               "That tear had been unobserved. For once I acted with some tact, or rather impulse directed me aright. I pressed my face to George's cheek, and whispered, 'Don't you want to see Aunt Mary?' He opened his eyes, and looked with a ghastly earnestness in my face-'Has she come?' He spoke in a voice of even startling loudness. The father turned back to him. 
               "'Who, my dear George?' 
               "'Aunt Mary,' I now unhesitatingly replied, 'he wants to see his Aunt Mary.' 
               "'Ah! right-he shall see her. Let her be instantly sent for.' 
               "Aunt Mary came. He had sunk again into almost deathlike quiet; his breath had become slower, and the beating of the little worn heart was scarcely perceptible. We stood back from his pillow as Aunt Mary approached. Not a soul was there that did not feel the sacredness of her claims. For some minutes she looked upon him in silence, though her tears fell fast and bitterly. At last she stooped to kiss the faded cheek. She whispered his name. The sunken eyes were again opened. He raised himself from the pillow, and flinging his wasted arms convulsively around her neck, exclaimed as before, in a hollow but distinct voice, 'Aunt Mary! take me home with you.' Every effort was of course made to tranquillize him, but in vain. All promises for the future were unheeded, soothing entreaties and expostulations unheard. One single idea had buoyed up his sinking nature again to life, and was all that had any power over him. The physician at last said, 'Let him be indulged; it may save him, and it is all that can.' The seemingly dying child was lifted from his bed, and, supported upon Aunt Mary's arms, was borne to her home. 
                
               "It was a long struggle. Months elapsed before the disease fully surrendered to returning strength, and disappeared. The child at last recovered, but never again returned to the paternal roof. The interest excited by his immediate danger passed away with the apprehensions that had awakened it. The demonstrations of tenderness that had been elicited from the family at the crisis of alarm, were all insufficient to efface the sense, that had been burnt in, as it were, upon the child's heart, of the mortifying position he had previously held. The awkward avoidance with which he had hitherto shrunk from their approach, the dull immobility of his aspect and manner in their presence, were nothing changed now at their occasional visits; and if he had been heretofore unattractive, the querulousness and imbecility of sickness were little calculated to render him an object of better regard. The consequence was, that all solicitude in regard to him had soon abated. The indulgence necessarily accorded to his feeble state, with the probable benefit to be derived from the country air, were sufficient reasons, for the time, for permitting him to remain. But it was hardly to be doubted that Mr. Ellesly felt it a relief, when the child that had so deeply mortified his pride, and revolted his taste, was no longer before him. And even Mrs. Ellesly, occupied with her own children, and the heart-deadening claims of fashionable life, had little thought to spare for one who had neither made nor sought a place in her feelings. 
               "Meanwhile Aunt Mary availed herself of George's protracted feebleness, to press a point, which, though it embarrassed and even pained the father, found yet a too ready accordance in his secret heart. 
               "'Why can't you,' she said, at one of his cold and far-between visits, at which I had chanced to accompany him, 'Why can't you give me little George for good? You'll never raise him if you take him from me again. This is the second time I've got him up from nothing, I may say; for you know that life was hardly in this little bit of clay when I took it from its dying mamma. Many was the long night I watched over it, that sleep did not come to my eyes. It was not just a hired nurse that would have restored him; for though you would have been mighty generous with me, it was not money that would have kept me up through it, when for weeks I did not know what rest was; but it was the love I had for him, when I saw his mamma's look, that gave me the strength.' 
               "'He has nothing of his mother's look,' said Mr. Ellesly, abruptly, though in a tone scarcely audible. 
               "'Oh! dear heart! yes-not so much, to be sure, as he had then; but if you'd see him smile once, the look is there yet. And his eyes, too, when he looks right into your's like,-but as I was saying, he'll never keep his health long, if he gets it ever so well, if you take him from me again. He's just used to our ways now, and he has got a sort o' hankering for his own mamma's people; for it is natural they should make much of him, being her child, who was, herself, the pet and pride of us all.' 
               "The subject to Mr. Ellesly was excoriating. It stirred up memories that were in no small degree humbling, and perhaps a little tinctured with remorse. The claim of poor George upon him as a parent was a robe of thorns, which these conversations pressed more closely around him. With time, perhaps, he might have rendered those claims less annoying; but it was easier to fling them at once and for ever from him. So he at last decided it. 
               "'Truly,' he said, 'it may be better to give him up altogether. Had he pride, or character, or intellect, it would be doing him a wrong. But, stupid as he is, what can I make of him? His tone of mind is decidedly low, and doubtless he will be infinitely happier in the class for which nature seems to have intended him.' 
               "Thus the matter was philosophically settled. George was given over to his country tastes and his cottage-home, and Aunt Mary's heart was relieved of a weight that had told upon her strength much more than the labors, heavy though they had been, of her maternal cares for the invalid. 
               "The little interest that George had created in his father's household was soon utterly forgotten. He had won there no 'golden opinions;' he had made himself necessary to no one's happiness, or convenience, or vanity. There is no tenure in memory feasible, without some of these bonds. When, a year after, Mr. Ellesly removed to the metropolis of another State, they hardly deemed a ceremonious farewell to George incumbent. From that time I saw nothing of the family, till some months after their subsequent migration to this our western city. I was not then a resident of it, but a brief sojourn here, at that time, brought me once more a guest under their roof. That house yonder, which I told you was their residence, though now flung in the shade by the more modern ones that have risen around it, was then distinguished by its elegance and taste. How fresh seems that visit there! Were it not for the faded look that has gathered over it, the changes that have taken place about it, giving to it so different an aspect, I could fancy it still the dwelling of my friends. 
               "Though separated more than ten years, I found little other change in the family than that which a month of spring-time or of early summer brings to the garden; a change from the bud to the flower-from the flower to the fruit. During a week I spent with them, I enjoyed the full outpourings of renewed friendship, and all the pleasant ransackings and overhaulings of 'Lang Syne.' Such a week is a bright, green spot, as the scribblers say; not in the desert of life-the pen or pencil that makes a desert of our bright and busy world, is always dipped in spleen. Happy and pleasant it is, despite 'the trail of the serpent,' to all whose hearts are tuned to concord. Old ladies, you perceive, must be allowed to moralize, though not always very complacently listened to. 
               "I have little more to tell. As I have said, the family was little changed in its general aspect. A proud man like Mr. Ellesly is the very one, if he welcome you at all, to give you a rich welcome. The warm smile upon such a face, so habitually dignified, so aristocratically grave, is like the sudden opening out of unsuspected treasures; and no one could be more pleasant than he, among his equals or in the bosom of his truly lovely family. Mrs. Ellesly's character had deepened. Its habitual softness had more of feeling. The death of two sweet children had touched it with a shade of thoughtful tenderness. During their illness, which had been protracted, she had looked upon life in another phase; she had learned that it had duties. 
               "Isabel, whom I had last seen a thing of fairy playfulness, had grown into a lovely and accomplished woman, with form, features, and bearing, upon which her father and her brother, every whit as fastidious, looked with exceeding pride. With those, too, her mind was in perfect accordance-refined, high-toned, intellectual; rendering her the equal of her brother Edward, whose naturally fine mind had been cultivated with much care. Years and close study had tamed the exuberant spirits of his boyhood; and amid the refined and classic circles in which he had moved, his nerves had become a little too sensitive, and his thought and manner a shade too sublimated; though the question of their excess was, perhaps, referable to what might be his future position in life. For the present, to a lady at least,-not then an old one,-this poetic refinement, this sentiment of character, was delightful. 
               "Then our flights to cloud-land were relieved by the frolic gambols of a young sister, a child four years old, privileged without limit, as are all youngest children, and pretty and wild as the wildest and prettiest fawn in all our ancient hunting-grounds. 
               "There was a sweet girl, too, in the family, whom they called 'Cousin Alice,' an orphan neice of Mrs. Ellesly, whom you would have instantly loved. She had a figure of embonpoint, rounded and polished to all the symmetry of the Medician Venice; and her movements were those of a mist-wreath, with a face of beauty, and eyes large, dark, and loving, that told the whole character at once-a fond, trustful, gentle, and happy nature-happy in itself, and constituted to remain so; for nothing could have made her unhappy but unkindness, and this she could nowhere meet. Wherever the chances and changes of life might have placed her, unless in some abode where any human infirmity excludes, there would Alice have made to herself friends. Nobody about her ever had a reasonable want that she strove not to gratify; a weakness, that she did not seek to favor; a sorrow, to which her unobtrusive sympathy, like some soft ministry of nature, did not afford solace. Yet Alice had no accomplishments, no talents, no literary pretensions. Her father, till his death, was considered a man of wealth; but he was a man of speculation, and, engrossed in visionary projects, which finally left him a bankrupt, he thought not of educating his child. Perhaps he deemed her sufficiently lovely without adventitious aid,-and in this he was not greatly wrong. Had you known her, you would no more have thought of any deficiency in Alice, than of the want of language-a learned one, for the zephyr that fanned your cheek. She had a natural refinement of manner that satisfied even the Ellesly family, and they regarded her with a fondness that manifested itself in every look and accent. 
               "Such was the family thirty years since-a little circle of high polish, and cheerful and varied interest. I frolicked with little Ella; talked with Mrs. Ellesly; looked with her husband at his pictures, his garden, his library; watched Alice, as she hovered round whatever luckless wight most needed her; and listened to Edward and Isabel, as they scanned over the dubious meaning of some classic line. 
               "There was a young man, too, of the name of Brown, an inmate with us for two or three days, with whom I could not but be pleased, though of a humbler order than might have been looked for in an Ellesly guest. But he had become known to them as a fellow-passenger from Pittsburgh in the large flat-boat that had borne them down the Ohio; for at that time the steamer had but in a single instance, I believe, ploughed through its waters. The voyage was consequently one of comparative peril and positive inconvenience. The young man was a denizen of the west, and somewhat familiar with river voyaging; and by dint of a hundred little courtesies and attentions to their comfort, for which, under other circumstances, the personal knowledge of a life-time, in their distant positions, would hardly have afforded opportunity, he had won upon their gratitude, if not upon their familiarity. A recent accident had deepened this sentiment, and placed them under an obligation that could be cancelled only by personal attention. A carriage, in which Mr. Ellesly was taking out his little girl, with Cousin Alice, had been run away with by a horse of unmanageable muscle. The animal had been arrested by young Brown, at a point of especial peril, by an effort that deprived him of the use of his arm; and of course they insisted upon his becoming their guest until it should be restored. This is an accident that, I am aware, belongs to your story-telling craft,-so chivalrous! and all that sort of thing; but horses, you know, actually do run away, and somebody stops them, every day in the week. But Brown was young and good-looking enough, any how, for a hero-very different, it is true, from the tall, slight figure and elegant proportions of young Ellesly, but nevertheless a form in the full projection of active, healthful, vigorous, and youthful manhood; one of those which the garb can neither add to nor subtract from. There was character breathing throughout it; you felt it at once in the free movement of the muscular but lithe limb, and the careless arrangement of the simple dress. His countenance, too, was frank, open, and manly, and his brow, broad and cheerful, was thrown up with an expression of habitual self-reliance, and a quiet air of conscious equality with those around him in all that should distinguish man from man. But for this, his induction to the patrician circle of the Ellesly parlor would have been altogether an awkward concern. 
               "Truly grateful to him as they all were, Cousin Alice was perhaps the only one whose manner was wholly free from effort. Yet Alice was silent, as well as the constrained Isabel; for maidenly delicacy held them alike in reserve. Mrs. Ellesly was silent from habit; her husband and son, for want of subjects of common interest with their guest. He was wholly a stranger to Edward, for the latter had followed, not accompanied, his parents, having waited for the completion of his college term; and to him it was an especially irksome task to acquit himself of the requisite courtesies. He had no interest in the ordinary topics of the day. He was fresh from the rarefied atmosphere of classic halls; the tangibilities of life were out of his line; and he believed that every thing belonging to mind and feeling was left 'beyond the mountains' and far away. He essayed a passing remark to the stranger, and then plunged again into his books, or started some mooted point of criticism or taste with his sister, that generally led out into a train of thought upon which both were carried off into utter forgetfulness of their guest. 
               "Yet, embarrassing as was the position of young Brown, he freed himself from its awkwardness in much the same manner he would have done from a spider-web drawn across him-by a single turn, and all unconsciously; the simple power of character within him evidently counteracting the restraints of circumstance. When a remark was addressed to him, he replied somewhat gravely, but always with freedom; when withdrawn, he took up a newspaper, or strolled off to a window, or entered into a low but embarrassed chat with Ella. I have always observed, that in an ill-assorted circle, where interregnums are apt to occur, a lively and interesting child is a most efficient auxiliary. And so it was now. Ella was in perfect friendship with our backwoodsman; she sat upon his knee-slid her fingers through the crisped and dark curls of his hair-talked to him of the peril from which he had rescued her and Cousin Alice, and told him that his eyes were 'more handsome even than brother Edward's.' 
               "'Don't untie Mr. Brown's bandage, Ella,' said Mrs. Ellesly, during one of their chit-chats; but the interference was too late. The busy fingers had already loosened the knot of the sling that supported his arm, and now the little meddler tried in vain to refasten it. 
               "'Cousin Alice! come, tie this for me;' and Alice unhesitatingly obeyed. 
               "'Will you loosen the bandage a little, Miss Alice?' 
               "Alice touched it with the tenderness of a sister-the bandage needed considerable adjustment. Brown lifted his eyes to her face. No wonder Ella had called them beautiful. Literally were they pouring upon her a stream of deep, thoughtful, passionate expression. Alice's were veiled by the long, heavy lashes that fell over them; yet did something of that expression seem to reach their gentle depths. It might have been the reflection of the rosy clouds that were flooding the sunset sky, but Alice's usually marble cheek was at that moment tinged with crimson. 'But what of it?' said I, mentally, as I watched those flitting shades; ''tis but a brief and soon-to-be-forgotten passage in their young lives. They part in a day or two, to meet probably no more. They belong to different orbits!' And then a crowd of matters and memories, connected with those paltry distinctions of our little life, gathered upon my mind. Among them came the recollections of little George; and I turned to Mrs. Ellesly to inquire for him. They had not heard from him for years; they were even ignorant if he yet lived. The last intelligence they had received was, that Aunt Mary and her husband were both dead, and George, still but a lad at that time, had gone, no one knew whither. Mr. Ellesly had made every possible inquiry, she believed, but without avail. 
               "'Poor fellow!' she added, feelingly, 'it always pains me when I think of him. I am afraid we were wrong in giving him up as we did. I wish he had been sprightlier. Mr. Ellesly was so hurt by his dullness; and even yet, he looks miserable whenever he is mentioned.' Fortunately I had timed my question when he was out. 
               "But my visit was at last ended. Mr. Brown had already left. He was anxious to return to the interior, having left it only for a trip or two on the river, and could not be prevailed on to remain longer. There was much about this young man to leave an abiding interest on the memory-the open brow, the simple manliness, the youthful but well-defined character. There was a dash too of sadness occasionally in his manner, at variance with its usual tone, that bespoke latent feeling. It seemed more than once called out by the prattle of Ella, and particularly at the moment of his leaving us, when she hung around him with inquisitive fondness, and asked him a hundred questions about himself, his home, and his friends. It was evident, from the sad smile with which he replied to them, that they jarred upon some chord of sorrowful tenderness. 
                
               "'I have no particular home, Ella.' 
               "'And no brothers nor sisters, either?' 
               "'Yes, I have a little sister much like yourself, whom I love very dearly. But I shall perhaps never see her again. Brothers are sometimes great ramblers, though it grieves them to be forgotten; and so, Ella, if you have one whom you should never see, you must sometimes think of him and love him still.' 
               "Well-I never met one of that pleasant circle again! So the friendships of the day pass. A year or two after, I learned that a great change had taken place in the Ellesly family. Some of those sudden turns, which the wheel of fortune is every day bringing up, had stripped them of their wealth. Mr. Ellesly, unable to endure the change amid the scenes of former prosperity, had plunged into the new country yet further west. Edward had exchanged poetry, sentiment, and the classics, for Blackstone and Coke, and had settled himself as attorney, counsellor, &c., at no great distance from the family, in one of our far western towns." 
               Our kind narrator had reached the point at which we were able to take up the story ourself. "Yes! yes!" we exclaimed, "and little fitted he was, poor fellow! for the atmosphere of such a place!" And so now we went on with the old lady, comparing notes and filling up the outline of the whole history. 
               "Alas for our young collegian! alas for the place where he had located himself and his hopes! A new town! You may see such a one through whatever portion of our still extending and newly settled west you may chance to pass; a village risen to the dignity of a country town, with some two hundred or less houses, the better portion of them confined to a single street, and the remainder sparsely scattered over a wide area of bright and rich green sward; a court-house of rather ambitious pretensions, rising from the centre, and near it a jail, from which you of course turn with a shudder of sombre associations. If you have an eye for the picturesque, it will be apt to wander to the dark outline of forest by which it is surrounded, and sundry other wildernesses in the back-ground. But if your speculations tend business-ward, it will rest upon the principal street, aforementioned, and take note of the demonstrations thereon of the stir and vitality of the place. Here, upon its entrance, is the forge of the smith, as attested by the heavy stroke of the hammer within, and the smutty faces occasionally peering out. Further along, the strip of flaunting merchandise fluttering in the breeze assures you of articles in the fancy line. And here is the hotel! with Washington, Jackson, or Lafayette, ingloriously suspended between heaven and earth, and looking down upon all below with solemn indifference. Among the half-dozen boarders ascending and descending the steps, you may distinguish the doctors, lawyers, and professors, 'gentlemanly and melancholy like,' who, with nothing in their pockets but their diplomas, have come to our western arena but to learn, perhaps, the fading of hopes all too sanguine. Across the street is the village grocery, where a fair representation of indigenous backwoods population, affording divers startling specimens of humanity, are congregated, from the lineal descendant of Boone or Leatherstocking, lounging apart upon his gun, to the busy trader, bustling forward in the very face and action of the crowd. Here do they all gather to talk over matters and things in general-commerce, politics, legislation; and to pour forth those bursts of occidental eloquence, with its magnificent metaphors and figurative brevity, so properly in keeping with the ample features and nerve of the country. Thanks to western legends and Crockett memoirs, which enable us to imagine these; for truly we have not time 'to tak' notes.' 
               "Over the way from just such a scene as this, was the sanctum of Edward Ellesly. There he sat, from day to day, looking like some fine vase on a kitchen shelf, among a goodly array of stronger and more serviceable ware; or rather shoved back in a corner near them, for Edward could not bring himself to mingle with those around him. The nerves which education and circumstance had wrought to a most useless fineness, were now morbidly quickened by a sense of his changed position; and wholly isolating himself from those whose patronage he virtually asked, he found they were content to leave him 'alone in his glory.' Striving indeed he believed himself, shut up as he was amid tomes of legal science, to increase his professional capital; but in reality wasting his very soul away in dreamy reverie and idle regrets. Day after day and week after week wore on, and still our young lawyer was without a client; yet he had, absolutely, no resource but his profession, and the pressure of positive need was in close prospect. The reveries of sentiment deepened into the reflections of bitter necessity. Idealize as we may, the greater portion of our nature is wonderfully human; and when its wants are upon us like the grasp of a strong man, we must needs come to a parley. He had one day flung away his books with a most theatrical gesture, and was pacing the floor with the strides of a much stronger feeling than 'melancholy.' The hilarious sounds that came from the street in a variety of tones, jarred tauntingly upon his ear; but as a quick, lively tread passed his window, the sound of his own name attracted his attention. 
               "'Why don't you employ Mr. Ellesly in the matter you told me about?' said the person passing, to another whom he met at the moment. 'I take him to be a whole team.' The voice seemed familiar to Edward's ear, and yet he could not identify it. 
               "'Why,' said the other, 'he looks as if a fellow in a linsey coat could not get to speak to him nigher than a pole's length.' 
               "'Pshaw! If he wears a better coat, it is a sign he has pocketed good fees.' 
               "'Irrefragible evidence!' thought Edward, half laughing, half bitterly. But it seemed conclusive. In a few minutes the man to whom it had been adduced, knocked at his office. Edward would have inquired of him who it was with whom he had just been speaking, but a feeling of pride suppressed the question, and he turned to the matter of litigation. It was one involving no great amount, but, luckily for our friend, a mass of contradictory testimony. Luckily, I say,-for this at once gave it interest. 
               "Court was at hand, and Edward found himself drawn out of the 'horrors' in which he had been plunged for the last half hour, and busy with the merits of his case. When it came to trial, he found himself opposed to a lawyer of long established practice and of no trifling celebrity. The perfect plainness of his manner, however, and the unimposing good nature of his countenance, upon which thought seemed never to have written a single line, satisfied our tyro that he had nothing very formidable to dread. As he rose to address the jury, he distinguished one among them whom he instantly recognized. It was young Brown; and with the first glance of that ingenuous face, came the recollection of the voice he had so vainly striven to recall. The conviction brought with it a rush of grateful feeling; and a glance of recognition, that even on his part had now something of soul, was exchanged. He opened his case. The witnesses, contradicting each other in a singular degree, had been examined; and the pride of strife, that pride which gives interest to the combatants in the poorest cause, roused him to exertion. His argument was polished, labored, classic; and he felt that it must be successful. Alas! it was borne down at once-demolished, annihilated, by the blended humor and strength, the off-hand sarcasm and matter-of-fact manner of his opponent. It was like the smashing of a Grecian urn by the fist of Hercules. 
               "Our discomfited advocate felt himself a thing of shadow. Yet was his rival no erudite counsel; his allusions and illustrations were all of home material; his knowledge was of men and things. It was certainly a matter of curious speculation to our scholar; but at present he was not in the mood to investigate. His mortification was intense. 
               "The jury went out, and an immediate verdict was anticipated. But hour after hour wore on, and they did not appear. The crowd wondered-waited-dispersed. It was midnight when the verdict was at last presented; Edward's client was the victor! A passing remark from one of the jurymen, as he left the courthouse, explained the marvel. Young Brown's pertinacity had been the pivot upon which the decision turned. He had overruled the eleven! Of the whole jury, he was the only one whom the tact of the opposing counsel had not won over. 
               "'But for one man upon that jury, capable of distinguishing sophistry from truth,' said Edward, as he drew Brown home with him to his room, 'the wily and rabble-rousing speech of my adversary would have professionally ruined me.' 
               "'And what would have been still worse,' said Brown, 'in a verdict the other way, wrong would have triumphed over right. It seemed to me as long as my fellows persisted in the desire to stand by their first convictions, that the goddess of justice was more literally than figuratively blind-that she was blinder to truth than to favor. I finally surrounded them, as the Irishman did the army, and they surrendered. It is well for their stomachs that they did; for I knew I was right, and the last star should have fallen before I would have given up.' 
               "'Well,' replied Edward, 'if you will pardon the soft impeachment, I will own that I thought it possible a friendship for me had had something to do with such heroic battling. But I confess you refer it to far superior motives, and these, too, wholly consistent with the full measure of friendship I had attributed. I feel all your kindness, and appreciate its value; for I am in need of friendship. I am poor-positively poor, though perhaps you are not aware of it;' and Edward, fairly warmed out of his usual manner, into that of unreserved feeling, went on to detail the change in the affairs of his family. The cold formality that had existed between the young men was melted away. They conversed long and freely, and Edward listened to the young backwoodsman with surprise and interest. There was not merely the raciness of native humor and of a vigorous mind in all he said; but through the plain outpourings of thought and feeling, that had been trained only in the rough school of the world, there were the frequent gleamings of a rich and deep nature. 
               "'Yet, after all,' thought Edward, as the young man took his leave, 'perhaps I have been unnecessarily free;' and his strongly biassed mind regained something of its ordinary contraction. What if Brown should presume upon his present freedom, to press a troublesome familiarity? The thought was unworthy his own grateful nature, but the prejudices of education are woven through the whole inner man. He was soon aware, however, that no undue claims upon his regard were likely to ensue. Except by accident, he saw little more of Brown for some time. Yet, as if to give a narrower character to these misgivings, continued instances of some friendly office on the part of the young man still came to his knowledge; it is true, of a very slight nature, but attesting a uniform and unobtrusive interest in his behalf. He found, too, that the influence that was thus at all times exerted in his favor, was by no means a light one. Brown's character, as he was led on to observe it with greater and warmer interest, was gradually developing itself to his perception, and he felt that he was one to be popular, to a certain extent, in the most aristocratic sphere. There was that entire abandonment of self about him that must have been the perfection of ancient chivalry. He was generous, impulsive, fearless, and had a freedom of manner, and a sunny light of eye, that were calculated at a single glance to bring the proud down, and the humble up, to his own standard. Such an one in our backwoods community could scarcely fail of being 'king of hearts;' and such he emphatically was. 
               "Edward became ill. Our unacclimated emigrants have usually to become naturalized through a course of fevers and chills. For some weeks he was principally confined to his room; and then, for the first, his young friend became a frequent visitor-tasking all his powers to cheer, to amuse, to cater for the capricious appetite; and the invalid learned to listen for his inspiriting step with the querulous impatience of a sick child. But at last he was restored. The professional practice he had been slowly gaining, had made him known to a few who were capable of appreciating the refinement of intelligence. All are not coarse-minded even among illiterate backwoodsmen; nor are all backwoodsmen illiterate. Here and there throughout the neighboring population, there might be found a family of cultivated taste and education, and among these Edward became favorably known; the rich stores of his mind, and the polished gentleness of his manners, gradually making them his friends. At length he was spoken of, by those who wished to elevate the tone of popular favoritism, as a suitable candidate, at their forthcoming election, for the Legislature of their infant State. The proposal, at first, met with but a cold response, and Edward was unaffectedly reluctant to be brought forward. It was certainly a matter of most unpromising issue. There was a candidate in the field-a man of wealth and influence. Edward's friends were of the intellectual few, but they were urgent and importunate. Some undercurrents of private interest set in his favor; and young Brown, unsolicited and unspoken with, had managed at once to throw the whole weight of his own popularity in his favor. Edward could but eventually acquiesce. Then came the toil and 'the tug of war;' the excitement and the joy of strife. Our backwoods population was all astir, and effervescing with the leaven of patriotism; and our gentle collegian, upon whose nerves the touch of coarseness had jarred almost to agony, was ruled to come out and mingle with the crowd,-aye, and to thank the gods for the grasp of the rudest hand; to turn a pleased ear to the roughest protestations of support; and to listen gratefully to the counsel of intellect, that, in those days of anti-temperance, were often grievously obfuscated by the libations they poured out 'like rain' to his success. Then, too, came the swift encounter of the stump with his doughty adversary, and the sharp play of weapons with which he was all unfamiliar. 
               "Still he got along. In all these several and severe trials, Brown was still at his side, seeming, like our heroes of romance, to have a gift of ubiquity that enabled him to be at all points of exigence. If Edward was occasionally mystified by a phrase of concentrated westernism, he always interpreted. If the candidate's answer seemed unsatisfactory at any time to a question upon the several points of his political creed, Brown, by some dexterous interposition, expounded for him, by an off-hand cut that was always perfectly satisfactory to the catechist. But he was also abroad, securing interest and giving tone to the prevailing sentiment in the remoter parts of the community. Not a gathering through the county but he was there-now mingling with the crowd, now engaged in private colloquy; and his wake could be traced wherever he moved, by the commotion he left in favor of his party. He had that peculiar dictation of manner, a taking-it-for-granted sort of way, accompanied by a hearty and bland courtesy, that always gives their possessor an ascendancy over the multitude. If our candidates harangued, he stood with a quiet air by the speaker's stand, lifting to his face (if Edward was the occupant) an occasional glance of merry humor, that could not fail of communicating something of its own spirit to the speaker. If his opponent was on the stump, Brown listened with great gravity, but commenting ever and anon to the bystanders, and giving, by some quaint remark, a turn of ineffable ridicule to the positions advanced. Meanwhile he had acquired an influence over his friend, of which the latter was perhaps scarcely aware. Edward's whole character was undergoing a rapid transmutation. A new channel had been opened out to his thoughts and feelings; new interests had given him new perceptions, and called out faculties and energies that had long slumbered. His distastes had been overruled, his sympathies enlarged, his morbid tendencies corrected. The companionship of Brown had reconciled him to scenes which he had considered unmitigatingly revolting; and the contact of life's rough play had strengthened his nerves to meet it. He was rapidly acquiring, too, the tactics of border politics and prowess. He was catching, unconsciously to himself, the tone and spirit of western population. He was, in fact, coming it.
                
               "'Remember now,' Brown would say, as he mounted, 'that you can't row your adversary up Salt River with a carved and filagreed paddle; throw out a strong pole, and push along.' 
               "'I know-I know,' Edward would reply, laughing; 'never fear me now; I have done with the philosophy of the schools for ever and a day. You shall think me 'half horse, half alligator.' I will use no comparison, as Sterne says, less than a mountain.' 
               "But the canvassing was at last over; the Ides of March were at hand. A close strife and a strong strife, and Edward Ellesly had the victory! 'Come,' said he a day or two after to Brown, 'I have for months succumbed to your domination; it is now my turn to rule. Prepare yourself to accompany me in an hour to my father's. It is little more than an afternoon's ride. They are your debtors of old, and are aware of their increased obligation. Nay, then, you can't be off now,-but I'll say no more of obligation. You'll allow me at least to speak of friendship. My parents are anxious once more to see their young friend. Ella has her choicest flowers reserved for you, a bouquet; and next to her own lover, who is solemnizing at old Harvard, Isabel will give you her very warmest welcome.' 
               "The young men were speedily on their way. It was a ride to be especially enjoyed. Their horses were fresh and fleet, and all the exhilarating influences of a bright afternoon, and a succession of the most picturesque forest and prairie scenery, in the wane of summer, were around them. Edward felt his whole nature expanding. His feelings kindled to enthusiasm. 
               "'What a glorious world is this west of yours! What a prodigality of creation-what a magnificence of scale-what gorgeousness of coloring! Your population, too-your generous, full-souled, backwoods population! How falsely I estimated them! How little I understood their character! But, Brown, I owe my better appreciation wholly to you-nay, even my enjoyment of your scenery. You have aroused me from a languor that was curdling my very being; you have unlinked the prejudices in which I was encased; you have taught me that a warm, rich, confiding nature like your own, sheds a thousand times brighter light than the cold, moonshine glitter of intellectual refinements.' 
               "'Ah, dear Edward!' (it was the first time Brown had used so familiar a term)-'there is no occasion now for any extra republican rants. You may put your gloves on, and touch hands as gingerly as you will, till the next campaign. But look! who would trust to appearances, even in the skies! Shall we make up our minds to a thorough drenching and a few ague shakes on your part, or a yawn of some two hours in the next cabin?' 
               "Edward chose the latter. A heavy rain of some hours succeeded. When they remounted, the day was far spent, and the night gathered round them, while they had yet some miles to travel. But the 'cold round moon looked brightly down' upon their path, touching the wild features about them into extreme beauty. The influences of the hour deepened; the air, purified by the passing storm, was full of odors, and a stillness fell around them like a palpable sense. 
               "'I feel myself,' said Edward, as an opening in the distance at last met their view, 'I feel myself a very child when I near my father's dwelling. There is such a sacredness in the paternal home-such a sense of rest associated with it, from the weary strife of the world-so many fond and tender and joyous recollections!' 
               "'I have been many years an alien from mine,' said Brown. 
               "'Ah! but you are so little needful of support-so sufficient to yourself.' 
               "'We are none of us sufficient to ourselves,' said Brown in a tone of great feeling; 'we can work for our bread and meat, and a place to stretch ourselves on, to rest for new toil. But love is not an article of trade, and that is just as strong a need within us as bread. It comes upon me with such a gnawing craving, that I could fairly weep for it. If the whole world was mine, there are times when I would give it all up for a parent's, a brother's, or a sister's embrace.' 
               "'You can never be without friends,' said Edward, 'warm, devoted,-but, my God! what is that light?' 
               "The wood from which they had just emerged opened upon a small prairie, upon the border of which Mr. Ellesly had built his cottage home. It was a small building, but evidenced the taste of its owner. He had expended upon it, and the pleasant acres around it, the small remains of his fortune, and it was a home to be marked by the traveller. Beautiful did it lie in the quiet moonlight, with its deep embowering of vines and shrubbery; but well might Edward's face blanch with agony as it met his gaze. A strong, broad flame was pouring from the roof; the windows glared with light; and yet all within were evidently hushed in slumber. Edward gasped for breath, but Brown's deep voice, as he plunged his horse forward, rose in long and repeated calls of superhuman strength. Terribly did those sounds come upon the stillness of the placid night; but they reached the slumbering and imperilled family. They walked amid the roar of flames; but rescue was at hand. The young men reached and forced open the closed doors, and the voice of Edward was now also heard. 
               "'Father! father!-but you are safe; you will all be saved! Mother! Isabel! Ella!-Great God! are you all here?' 
               "In the delirious terror of the moment, they rushed instinctively to the door; but all were not there. Ella had slept! but a strong form rushed past them. The father had yet calmness enough to direct his way, and the moment after, Brown had placed her in her brother's arms. They were indeed saved. Amid the glare of the burning dwelling, and with no shelter but the skies, Edward folded his mother and sisters to his bosom, and thanked his Maker with that passionate devotedness which bursts from the heart of even the irreligious, when the hour of fearful peril has revealed to them their entire dependence upon the dreadful God. A few only of their valuables, and those wholly by the calm energy of Brown, were saved. But the family bore it with much fortitude. The tenderness of Edward, and the efficient and cheerful exertions of his friend, were not lost upon them. Of the latter Mr. Ellesly remarked, with a sad smile, that he seemed 'the better portion of his family's destiny.' So they all seemed to regard him. He had become to them a support upon which they all leaned. 
               "It was but a thin settlement, yet hands were nevertheless rallied to their assistance. Brown's own vigorous arm was foremost in whatever was to be done. A cabin was thrown up, and the family had once more a shelter. The exertions of the young men gave it even an aspect of cheerfulness. The laugh of Ella, as she sat on Brown's knee, rang through it; and the smile, though somewhat faintly, came back to the lips of Isabel and her mother. 
               "Mr. Ellesly had been calm through it all; but a fever, common to the country and the season, had threatened him for some days previous. His exertions probably confirmed and gave it deeper malignity. He was at last confined to his bed; and in less than two weeks, despite of medical skill and the efforts of his family, it was evident that he was hastening to the 'far off country,' where earthly cares cease. How insignificant, how less than nothing, to the dying man, were now the strong interests of his life! The pomp, the pride of wealth, the splendors of intellect,-where were they now! An itinerant minister, meek, humble, and illiterate, opened out to his view visions brighter than them all. In the conversations he held with the man of God, the faith which had hitherto been but a cold belief, was kindled into fervor and vitality, and Mr. Ellesly became reconciled to death, not as an escape from a weary life, but as the valley and shadow through which his Lord had passed. Yet did his affections yearn over his beloved family, so at times greatly to darken his spirit. At last he spoke of his first-born. 
               "'My poor George!' he said; 'how coldly I have neglected him! Edward, 'tis my dying charge, that you rest not till you find where he is. Make him feel that you are indeed his brother. And you too, Emily,' he continued to Mrs. Ellesly, who sat with face hidden upon his pillow, 'will you not, for my sake, should you ever meet him, make up to him the tenderness I should have shown him? Give him my blessing; it is all I have to leave my children.' 
               "Young Brown, who throughout his illness had scarcely left him, manifesting by his sleepless care a solicitude of singular intensity, slowly approached the bed. Tears were coursing fast over his manly cheek. He took Mr. Ellesly's hand, and pressed it to his lips. 
               "'Father! bless me now! I am George Ellesly!'" 
               We have intended no surprise to our readers. If they have read our story with any interest, they have doubtless anticipated the result. Brown was the name of Aunt Mary; and sharing her home so many years, he came gradually to be called by it. She wished him to retain it; and Aunt Mary's wishes in life and death were to George a law. 
               But what a scene was that dying bed! Truly, we know not how to get on. George was folded to the heart that had so coldly spurned his earlier claims, with a fervor that seemed for the moment to rally back the full strength of life. Again and again, as he put his child from him, to study the lineaments which nature now exultingly acknowledged, the dying man would press him back to his bosom, and pour over him the long withheld blessing for which his soul had so yearned. 
               "Yes, the bitterness of death is now passed; my outcast boy will close my eyes! The love that unites my children shall shield them all from sorrow. And felt you not that he was your brother, Edward, during all his loving kindness? And I, too, why did I not know my boy? Yes!"-and he gazed long and fondly upon his face-"yes! he has his mother's eye! and his smile-why did I not see it was hers!" The memory of other years had come back upon his vision. 
               "And is he our very own brother?" said Ella, as Edward and Isabel knelt beside him and wept, and George himself took his feeble and exhausted stepmother into his arms, and mingled his tears with hers-"is he our very own?" 
               "Pray for us, and return thanks!" said Mr. Ellesly to the minister, who just then entered; "pray that we may have yet one more meeting in Heaven." 
               Soothingly did that prayer come upon the hearts of all; for the strongest emotions of earth are tranquillized, as we turn to the vastness of eternity. But when they rose from their knees, they saw that his hour was come. A smile of that peace that "passeth show" settled upon his features. He kissed his family one after another, but George's hand was retained in his, and his eye rested upon him for some time, with an expression that George never forgot. Consciousness soon after left him, but its last glance was upon his first-born son; and hours after, when the pulse was at last still, George yet imagined that he felt the pressure of that stiffening hand. 
               "Do you remember my cousin Alice?" inquired Edward, a day or two after the interment. 
               "Remember her!" George lifted his eyes to Edward's with a look that told volumes. "But how is it," he added, turning to Mrs. Ellesly, "that your niece is no longer with you?" 
               "We thought her too lovely for our wilderness home," was the reply; "she had other friends, who proffered her a wealthier one; and we sacrificed our more selfish feelings to our interest for her good." 
               "Yes-but, mother," rejoined Edward, "you made a sacrifice of her feelings also; and that is rather an equivocal good. Here is a letter from her, which I shall answer immediately. Read how she begs to come to us; and I shall tell her mother that I shall come for her as soon as I can get our domestic arrangements a little settled. Shall I not, brother George?" A smile almost played upon Edward's saddened features as he spoke. 
               Some four or five years after this, I had become intimately acquainted with the family. Isabel was united to her betrothed, and had forgotten former sorrows. "My brother Edward," she said to me, "is making himself a name-winning his way to wealth and eminence. I am proud of his success, and he is extremely dear to me. But I love my brother George with a passion. There is something about him that stirs up my heart from its very bottom. My mother, too, leans upon him more fondly, I sometimes think, than upon any other of us; and my cousin Alice! Oh, I've no words to tell you how happy she is, nor how her husband doats upon her. Truly, she who has seen George Ellesly's look, as his young wife leans upon his breast, must be very happy herself, if she be not envious." 
             
             
                
               THE REJECTED MANUSCRIPT. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           I am as in a gloomy vale; 
                           I see the mountains dim, 
                           Of glory's mountains, like the dreams 
                           That Mab's fine fingers limn. 
                           But I am islanded by streams, 
                           Too cold and wide to swim. 
                        
                      
                     COATES KINNEY. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Did'st ask in thy dreams, pale youth, for fame? 
                           Knowest thou not 'tis a mocking name? 
                           Come thou, and quench thy spirit's thirst, 
                           In streams from th' Holy Mount that burst. 
                           In the vale of duty they softly flow, 
                           And will health and peace on thy soul bestow. 
                        
                      
                     ANON. 
                   
                
               IT was the last evening our friend Ives was to stay with us-the last! almost a sad thought in the partings of the friends of a day-acquaintances only, in whose light intercourse the heart has had no share,-but with Harley Ives, what a farewell was before us! Yet we tried to forget it, cheating the few hours that remained of all painful thought, with a strange facility to that effect which stands us so often in good stead at the time of approaching trial. We drank tea once more under the elms by the fountain-the children were full of glee, and we caught a portion of sunlight from their faces. Carry, however, was a little grave. "I shall never have another fairy tale, Mr. Ives, now that you are going to leave us. Aunt Quiet's stories are only got up just to make me good, and they don't always do that." "They are rather failures in that respect," said Mr. Collingwood, looking at his child with parental fondness. "But, dear Harley, Carry is not the only one that will miss your stories. You have exhausted, you say, the histories of our old playmates, but there was one of the boys of whom you told us nothing; though of ourselves we know he has diffused much gladness through our household, and that he is now about to leave us." Harley's most ingenuous smile was called out by the covert appeal. "And what could you expect, dear Collingwood, of one like him? except, perhaps, some very moving accidents by flood and by highway, in the course of some dozen years' itinerancy. What there is, however, of graver matter, you shall forthwith hear. Aunt Quiet will be putting our Independence boys into a book by-and-by, and I should certainly hate to be the one left out. But the story entitled 'Harley Ives,' Aunt Quiet, must be put in some corner of the book least noticeable, for in truth there is hardly an event to mark it-though it may have something like a moral for young gentlemen not exceedingly wise." 
               "Uneventful! and yet the life of a poet-is n't it so, Harley? I have been going to ask you, again and again, what of the poems that took you the journey so long ago, in which you and Thed Roland were thrown together?" 
               "Oh, yes! that's the very point I shall begin at-the poem!" repeated our friend, a slight touch of melancholy conflicting with his smile; "that is the one circumstance of my life-a cord at least upon which for a few years there hung some sorrows. I was born a poet! I had no doubt of that for years. How should I, when my dear fond mother and all my friends, as good judges as myself, spoke of it as a fixed fact. My vocation was written, and I had only to read it as soon as my boyish eye grew strong enough to decipher the significant tablet. There is a temperament, sometimes wholly complexional, sometimes growing out of circumstance, that leads one almost irresistibly to the perpetration of rhyming-a dreamy sort of mental tendency-a love of birds and flowers and stars and woods, and all that sort of things, leading one away from the busy real, and plunging him, not into floods of thought-clear, elevating, rational thought, but vague and idle revery, about as much to the tangible aims and purposes of life as the visions to which we yield ourselves in sleep. Such was the distinctive tendency of my early years-something perhaps of nature-still more, I fancy, growing out of the infirmities which shut me out from infancy from the stronger aliment that makes the growth of sound organizations. 
               "My early rhyming efforts afforded me amusement-they interested, excited me; for effort has always its excitement. It needed not the fervors of high poetic vision to make it pleasant to me. No wonder my poor mother, with no other object of earthly solicitude but myself,-no wonder, as she looked upon her sickly boy, and saw his eye kindling with the passing earnestness of the moment, that she deemed him set apart for a priesthood in that temple which looms up in such colors of gold to a mother's fond pride. My feeble health and her stinted means allowed me but narrow opportunities of mental culture. Her life was only a life of love. Its simplicity fitted her little for the task of mental guidance or instruction. Even the books she tasked herself, often beyond her means, to procure me, directed in choice, as they generally were, by my own undisciplined taste, were seldom appropriately selected, and were always read without a friend to aid me in expressing whatever worth they might contain. While I continued to write, from impulse, mere fugitive pieces, readily received by the journals of the day, and receiving not unfrequent commendations from those who kindly looked less at the verses than the young cripple who wrote them, I knew not how scant was the oil my little lamp drew its light from. But as I neared the season of manhood, and my mother's expectant eye made demand upon me for further effort, I began to feel that I had not the measure it required to meet it. 
               "'Why does not Harley gather up his pieces and have a book made of them?' was a frequent inquiry that found but a too ready response in my mother's heart; and that soon led to positive demand. I set about fulfilling her wishes, but it was with a faintness of purpose that was new to me. The meagre collection was at length made-there was not enough for a book! Never before was impotent conclusion so satisfactory; and yet it did not free me from the imposed task. The Hebrew bondman who had bricks to make without straw, was less to be pitied than I now was, under the expectation of my mother that I would forthwith add enough to the bricks already laid to complete the edifice. My mother's will,-my tender, devoted mother might well be a law to me,-I took up the pen, though with an increasing languor of effort that I struggled vainly to shake off. The longer poems with which I sought to fill new pages, required an ascent into those imaginative regions where I had no wings to rise. With what exhausting efforts I wrought at the doomed labor! At times, some chance, felicitous conception gave me new strength. A feverish joy would come over me, akin perhaps, in some degree, to that with which the true poet plunges through the illimitable depths; and I would think myself in high fulfilment of my calling. But the fitful fever would subside-the exhaustion would follow; and, like the unhappy Hamlet, upon whom so much more terrible a duty had been laid, I began to think the world 'flat, stale, and unprofitable.' But my mother's expectant look was ever upon me. I might not abandon my task; and weary, miserable, and sick at heart, I still labored on, adding line after line and page after page of but measured words to my manuscript. 
               "Some two years passed away in completing it. How many nights during that time had it driven sleep from my hot pillow! How often banished the soft sweet peace that was native to my spirit! But it was done! How glad my mother was! With what pride she looked upon the sheets of foolscap, (fool's cap, I would say most truly, but that you might charge me with punning!) How full to her of golden promise were the lettered pages, and how little did she dream of the possibility of a failure! She had saved the means necessary to take me to New York, where an officious friend had assured us a work of merit was secure of patronage. My meeting with The Roland flung a gleam of pleasure on a portion of my journey-otherwise it had little of sunshine. I do not think I was aware of the entire meagreness of my powers, but my feeble physical strength had greatly failed under the wear of mental excitement. Genius, strong and free, may well go on rejoicing in his course; but to the uninspired that yet fix a longing eye on the far heights, the up-hill toil is one of unimaginable as well as bootless weariness. Almost sinking with feebleness, I completed my journey. I was one of the dense crowd that thronged the great emporium-lame, simple, friendless, inexperienced Harley. But the thought of my mother sustained me to the fulfilment of my mission. In office after office I stood, with my manuscript in hand, soliciting notice of its claims; in office after office I stood waiting its condemnation. Kindness is not altogether an alien to our world. Rejection followed rejection, but almost uniformly with a considerate gentleness of expression and manner. It may be characteristic of the class to which I was applying,-perhaps I owed it to my youth, my pale face, or my crutch; but it softened the still repeated refusal. Still some plausible pretext was given for the rejection, but it was made uniformly without hesitation, and after a mere glance at the first few pages. There are those, however, and yet not without kindness, who are more ready to meet unsound expectations with the scalpel than with bandages and balm. 
               "My last application was made to a publisher, recommended to me by the others, as holding a distinguished name among them, and my answer was in a far different tone. He read a few pages of the work more attentively than either of the others had done-seeming, indeed, to take the weight of every line. He then closed it, with a grave look, and gave it back to me. 
               "'Young man,' said he, in a tone rather monitory than unkind, 'you have mistaken your vocation. You have probably had poor advisers. This manuscript has no doubt cost you much labor,-it is a pity! I should hardly,' he added, measuring me from head to foot with a searching glance, 'I should hardly take you for one of the conceited dolts that think it a favor to offer us their poor trash,-but you can never be a poet. You have no idea, I presume, what it takes to make one. Well, they are about as few as the prophets. Have you read our great poets? You look as if you might understand them. You can take their measure, though you can only look up to it. Go home, young man, and put away your manuscript. It has perhaps amused you-it can never do more; and then sit down and study Homer, Milton, Pope, Dryden. You will then be better able to measure yourself.' 
               "It seems strange how instantly we recognize a truth, when clearly presented to us, that our own dim sight has been unable to discover. I felt as if I had suddenly emerged from some childish estate into a clearer and manlier being. I was able to thank my adviser, with no assumed gratitude; and as he added something more of growing kindness and of counsel, in which I have since found much wisdom, I listened with gratified rather than pained feeling. My long dream was for ever dissipated, and all that was required of me now of further effort, was to return to my mother, with a strength of heart that would sustain hers under the disappointment for which she was so little prepared. This I might have done had my nervous system been previously unimpaired. But, as I have already said, the strain on my mind had been too great for my constitutional feebleness. The last call upon me for immediate effort was followed, as my steps were finally turned homewards, by an utter prostration of my whole being. How I dreaded the meeting! shrinking even more from the thought of my mother's tenderness than of the pain I was about to give her. 
               "It was at last over-a painful trial to her, without doubt; but what is the boasted fortitude of man's, to the elasticity of woman's nature? My poor mother's heart at once flung out new tendrils to grasp again the long-treasured hopes that had been wrested from her. 
               "'Why does not Harley publish his book himself?' was an inquiry from her friends that her thought had already anticipated. The reaction in which the effort I had made to brace myself through my late ordeal could but terminate, was followed, upon my return home, by a slow, nervous fever. The slightest allusion to my poor manuscript was agony to me, and I had early begged my mother never again to mention it. Alas! for our poor human love-even a mother's, so pure, so strong, so self-sacrificing. How often it acts in error! How often it misinterprets the heart it would soothe! 
               "While I thus writhed under every chance word that stirred a thought of them, my devoted mother was making arrangements to publish my poems. She was about to dispose of a small life annuity to meet the expense of publication. The owner of our village press was able to give all necessary furtherance to her views, and her warm heart was as full as ever of glad hope. She believed her 'darling boy had been illy used, and no wonder he took it hardly!' The discovery made me half frantic. Then for the first time I knew the amount of pride that had lain smuggled away in my heart. Apart from my mother's contemplated sacrifice,-in itself a maddening thought,-had the work, in fact, promised me a life competence, I would sooner have been compelled 'to live upon the vapors of a dungeon,' than to have given it to the world. 
               "I had not told my mother all the mortifying passages attendant upon my late failure; above all, that I had fallen so utterly from the pedestal of my own esteem. Regard for her feelings withheld me. Now I must tell her all. I must see the full trust crushed out in her heart-the mother's pride fade from her eye. What a task it was! Nor was I at all certain of winning her to the renunciation of her hopes; they had been so many years cherished, with a faith so undoubting in the gifts that should fulfil them. How should I convince her it had been all an illusion?-how tell her my wings were all melted, and that I lay proner than Icarus? I tried various little manuvres to prepare her for the unwelcome truth. I read her a page or two from one of the great poets to whom I had been referred by my sage and friendly counsellor-pages of deep, passionate, burning poetry; then (to myself what a cold-water bath!) as if from another volume, a paper of my own, which it chanced I had never read to her. She anticipated the comparison to which I intended leading her, but with what a result! My poor, dear mother! Simple in her tastes as in her life. 'Ah!' she said, 'that last now, sounds like poetry. Why, it seems a'most like your own, Harley!' What could I say next? As, musing over my perplexities, I glanced at her face, long toil-worn and pale, but to which, absorbed in my own selfish and melancholy reveries, I had given of late too little notice, I was suddenly struck with the change that was upon it. I looked at her earnestly; and even as I looked, her short, dry cough, which I now recollected having more than once heard, went to my heart like a knell. She acknowledged herself, in reply to my now anxious inquiries, 'not quite well, but it was only a cold that would doubtless wear off directly.' 
               "It was not a time now certainly to chill her heart. I only sought to prevail on her to defer her intended arrangement till she was better, and to this she acceded. But she never was better! A few days confirmed the melancholy truth that a rapid decline was bringing her life of love and labor to a close. Yet still she clung, with a fondness that almost broke my heart, to the plans that, with the common delusiveness of her disease, she believed were only deferred. I no longer sought to avoid a theme that seemed always pleasant to her. I read again to her, as I sat by her pillow, the little pieces that had been her favorites. Yet what a position was mine! Even while I marked the deepening shadows that were gathering on the beloved face, the thought, unblest, ungrateful, sacrilegious, of escape from all her affectionate plannings, whirled through my brain-mingled even with my most bitter anguish, when I at last knew that the heart, whose every beat had been for my happiness, beat no longer! She died as she had lived, going to sleep gently and peacefully, and relinquishing her treasured hopes for her boy, only as those of heaven brightened on her happy vision. I turned from her grave alone. I declined the attendance of kind neighbors, and sat down in my little chamber, utterly and inconsolably desolate. And still, in that hour of unspeakable grief, the recollection of the trial that had passed from me rose on my heart. I went to my desk, and took from it my manuscript. It opened of itself at the pages that, at my mother's request, I had turned down to mark something she particularly liked. My tears dropped on them fast, as I ran over the simple lines for the last time. Whatever they were, they had been sanctified to me by her regard, and were to me holy. I tore them from the manuscript, and sealing them up carefully with a seal that has never been broken, I put them away with the silvered tress, and other little memorials of the departed. Then rolling up the now wholly worthless scroll, I held my lamp to its edges. Had it been less an hour of grief, I should have watched the creeping flame that was working its way so easily through my whole little life's labor, with a triumph more heartfelt than was Petrarch's, when his weary brow was at length bound with the long coveted laurel wreath. Even now something of satisfaction, as I watched the consuming pages, blent with my many bitter thoughts; and when they were at last but as the ashes of my grate, I felt as if a weight that had been on me for years was removed. 
               "There was a pause in my life. It seemed for two or three years as if my very pulses scarcely beat. The spring of my nature was apparently wholly broken. There had been connected with my young life a tie stronger, tenderer, perhaps, than that which death had severed. But of this, locked as it has been for long years in my deepest heart, I may not speak easily; yet as it has borne, and while a pulse is left must still bear, upon my daily being, I will turn the key that, but that kind eyes are upon me, I would still hold inviolate. This tie was with a young and very distant relative of my mother's, with whom I was associated almost from infancy. Few that have ever loved, but hold in remembrance the hour when it was first acknowledged to their own hearts. Not so with me. I have no knowledge of a time when Elizabeth Avondale was not my world. Life, light, joy, all that is held dearest in mortal being, would not have been such to me, had her thoughts and image been stricken from them. She was the child of a widowed father, who was to my mother a near and valued neighbor. Her mother had been to mine not only a relative, but an exceedingly dear friend and early associate. She could but extend to her orphan child much of tenderness and care, and the father encouraged the instinctive fondness with which the little Elizabeth seemed to turn to us. With us thus almost daily for years, her childhood and my own were spent in an intimacy that blent our very beings into one. What she was to me,-when I slept but to dream of the last hour spent with her, and wakened but to count the hours till her return,-when summer was doubly beautiful because she loved its flowers, and we gathered and wreathed them together,-when winter was only gloomy when its storms sometimes kept her from us,-when even suffering was pleasant because she sat by my pillow,-what she was to me during these many years, I may not say. 
               "But all this is idle. It could not last. I learned to feel but too early that growing years were dividing us. I saw her ripening into a loveliness and perfection of womanhood that was daily distancing me from her. We were nearly of the same age-our grade of life was the same. The inequality between us was in her richer mind, her higher nature, her clearer and far better cultivated intellect. There was no change in her manner towards me, save what womanly delicacy imposes upon the gay freedom of childhood. I had been wont to tell her my every thought-joys, griefs, hopes, fears, fancies, every thing that stirred soul or mind, rose from it to meet her sympathy, as the committed seed struggles upward to the warmth of sunlight; and this trust remained long unbroken. I detailed to her at once all the humiliations of my literary enterprise. She expressed no surprise-only the gentlest of pity for the pain they must have given me. There was a significance in this, to my musing thought, that could not be misunderstood. She, then, had estimated me by my true measure! and pitied as she saw me lessening from her! It was the final drop that deadened my heart's life. After my mother's death it closed to all aim. Had any object worthy of ambition or interest been at that time within my grasp, the energies that had been turned aside from the vain channel in which they had so long flowed, could scarcely have gone to so entire waste; but alone, aimless, friendless, so far as efficient interest was required, disheartened, feeble, believing myself a superfluous atom floating at random on life's cold waters, my heart grew as difficult of quickening as inanity itself. I had never recovered my usual degree of health, and to this perhaps might be imputed some part of my mental suffering. My physician,-one's friends will still press medical advice upon us, though our disease be what no man can medicine,-prescribed what was doubtless best for me-change of air and scene. For a time, however, I had not motive enough to stir me to the effort it required me to make. 
               "But the world around me was still, as ever, busy. Our little community was just stirred by the advent of one of those brilliant meteor spirits that mark, not the age, it is true, but the day. A young man from a neighboring city, fresh from his college course, and with his brow wreathed with clustering collegiate laurels, had been invited by our village magnates to give us a lecture upon some topic at that time of unwonted popular interest. From the mere purpose of avoiding the compassionate notice of friends, I joined the crowd that the stirring occasion had assembled. There is a power in high gifts that the coldest feelings can scarcely resist. To me, the glowing eloquence of a youthful and fervid mind, enriched with all the wealth of classic lore, was a new enjoyment. I gave myself up to its spell, and for a time forgot my own colorless existence. Among the fair auditors was Elizabeth Avondale; and as I glanced at her face, the spell that had been upon me was at once broken. I was not surprised at the radiant pleasure that lighted it up-the flood of rich thought to which she was listening could but call forth response from her beaming eye; but it awoke the train of painful memories that had been partially lulled; it carried me back over past years; and when, at the close of the lecture, I saw the young stranger hastening to her side as to one to whom he had been already presented, and from whose soft smile he would draw his highest guerdon for the evening's effort, I hurried through the crowd to avoid the kind smile with which she always met me. A short time, and my miserable fancies were fancies no longer. The world-our world-was not slow to make them real. The young lecturer still lingered in the village, and his accepted devotion to Elizabeth Avondale was the interest of the day's gossip. It was no tale to doubt-they were suited to each other. In one of my feeble walks they whirled past me. How did his handsome face glow with pleasure, and how animated were the tones in which he was speaking to the gentle being at his side. Elizabeth did not see me; her face was turned from me in listening to the impassioned speaker. What was all this to me? I had no claims upon Elizabeth Avondale, save those she still fulfilled in the kindness of her wonted smile. But that very smile had grown painful to me-I felt myself becoming unable to meet it. I thought of the advice of my physician; it was now the time to try its efficacy. 
               "I went to take leave of Elizabeth. I did not need to tell her I had been ill-the look with which she glanced over my wasted frame was full of pitying interest. Kindly, cheeringly, lovingly as a sister she talked to me; but the balm she poured did not reach my heart's wounds-her touch did not strengthen its weakness. I took my leave calmly, but-believe not, Sidley, you who have said to me my life must have always passed smoothly, believe not that I did not suffer. 
               "But it was not without benefit that I flung myself into new scenes. I should rather say that I wandered impassively, where nothing that could awaken my interest was longer present. My health slowly mended; the faintness passed from my spirit, though its spring of action still remained broken. But the exhausted state of my little purse would at last permit total inaction no longer. A resource, common enough to such penniless adventurers, was open to me. I accepted the office of a small school in the interior of the State, and in a community made up almost wholly of Germans-a position that isolated me altogether from the pleasant social ties so congenial to my nature, and that would doubtless in time have won back my spirit to its native tone. But week after week and month after month now passed with me in almost utter waste of life. My daily routine of obviously marked duties were fulfilled, but beyond them I had not a purpose or an aim. I never asked myself whether it were or were not enough to meet the requisitions of my simple employers. I thought not of the duty of inquiring if there were nothing more I could do. My all of better faculties lay slumbering under a benumbing sense of a want of power-of an existence noteless and valueless in the sight of the great Taskmaster. The time came when I had learned there was no one so feeble but might find service in His world-wide Temple-no position so insignificant, but that the influence of faithful effort would be felt in the lessening dullness, the deepening interest of the appointed place. 
               "But two or three years after, in that self-same spot, amid the same rude, ignorant, unappreciative community, and with little of apparent change in the juvenile assemblage still gathered around me, I had scarcely time or physical strength to fulfil the claims and duties that I felt pressing upon me on every hand. An awakening interest in all I was able to teach was stirring the young minds around me to the most earnest effort. A Sunday-school had taken place of the juvenile carousals to which on that day they were accustomed. Among the young men under my instruction, there were two or three of the more intelligent, to whom I had discovered that the pride of country was a feeling; and these, as I had gradually acquired an imperfect knowledge of their own language, I had drawn into a course of reading with me-deriving to myself a benefit even greater than theirs-from the great writers of their own fader-land. I had then learned, but from a purer and gentler spirit, the sentiment I found so briefly expressed by Goethe, that 'useless life is early death;' and the being that I had so erringly considered a worthless gift, had acquired to my thought a holy value, by the love of one that was then among the angels.-But it is not of feelings thus changed, of time thus devoted, that I should now speak. I return to that when the days wore on without purpose as without hope. 
               "I had sought no information of those I had left-not even of Elizabeth Avondale. She was doubtless Elizabeth Avondale no longer, and I was now to her as if I had never been. I made no effort to forget her-my mind was too inert for that; but it seemed as if there were worlds of darkness shutting me from her, through which my vision could no longer pierce. I woke at last as from a long lethargy. I started to find that years had elapsed since I left my home. A strong desire to revisit it rose in my heart-a thirst that would not be repressed. My position made little of preparation necessary, and, urged on by an impulse that allowed me no rest, my journey was soon completed. I reached my mother's cottage-I opened the little gate. How changed, how desolate, how void it all was! But we have to put down the thronging memories that rise as we stand upon the cold places that Love once warmed, and meet smilingly the common courtesies that may yet await us. 
               "The tenant in whose care the little garden had been left came forward to meet me. I sat down with him in the rustic porch, and, while image after image rose upon me of the past, listened to the voluntary details of change that had marked the familiar neighborhood. Removals-deaths-marriages! how many of these may fill the lapse of even but two or three years! But no one name had yet touched a chord of interest. There was one I would fain have asked of, but hers I could not speak. I fashioned my inquiry to avoid it. 
               "'The young stranger that was here when I left-the eloquent young lecturer-?' 
               "'Oh, yes; every body thought he would be married to Elizabeth Avondale, but it proved otherwise. People said he was mighty devoted to her, and her friends thought it would be a great match; though I'd like to know,' said the honest-hearted speaker, 'who could be too good for her. She did seem to hold him in great respect like, for he was looked up to by a'most every one as more than common; but she set him entirely aside as to marriage, and he's not the only one, they say, by two or three-all the best kind of offers. Elizabeth Avondale was no way like other girls. Somehow, she always seemed to me above this world. May-be she had a sort of forethought that she was not long for it, and so set her heart altogether on heaven. If her whole thoughts had always been there, I'm sure she could not have done no ways different; in all her life nothing can ever be remembered of her but good. But she has not long to stay here now; she has been all one as dying with the consumption for more than a year.' 
               "Dying! Elizabeth-still Elizabeth Avondale-dying! Slowly I turned from my informant. I faltered at every step, but I reached the well-remembered dwelling. The stricken father met me at the door. 
               "'You have come in time to see her!' It was all that he said. 
               "I followed him to her chamber. Could I have found utterance I would have said, 'Will you not prepare her?' But no preparation was needful to the calm and gentle spirit that had so long won the settled and sublime peace of heaven. One might well forget the terrors of death, beholding him through such a victim! She lay propped up in her chair, but as if at rest, with her eyes closed, and the long, dark, heavy lashes lying in mournful contrast on her marble cheek. At her father's approach she opened them, and looked at him with a soft smile. 
               "'Harley Ives is here, Libby.' The old man's voice trembled as he spoke. A light went over her face-a light full of sudden happiness. With what a smile she looked at me, as, in voiceless anguish, I took his place beside her; how kind, how tender, how welcoming! So I would have her look when she comes,-as I trust she may be permitted to,-a ministering angel, to meet and strengthen my own spirit through the valley of the shadow of death.
                
               "Pardon me, my friends, that I cannot repeat the words upon which, in that hour of mingled joy and woe, I hung with a strange ecstasy. Years, long years have since passed, but still I feel that such utterance would profane the pure love that I was left to doubt no longer. Wealth, talents, fame, had been insufficient to win from me the high and noble heart that had been given me only for my own heart's truth, and in fulfilment of the fond and happy dreams in which we had walked together through the green paths of childhood. She had never doubted that truth, through all the weakness, the sorrow, the silent yieldings up of my own soul. She had understood it all-she pitied-she suffered with me; but she believed that in time the overstrained nerve would recover its strength, and with it, the heart would regain the trust and self-confidence of which she deemed that only a too intense sensitiveness had robbed it. She knew I would return to her-never doubting through all my silence, but looking and waiting with patient expectancy. It was only for my sake, when she felt that the early shadows, which inherent tendency had long foreboded, were at last deepening around her, that she had striven, though vainly, to repel the insidious disease. What assurances to the heart believing that no eye looked into its sorrowful depths!-assurances of bliss even from the lips that I knew would be soon sealed. But more than this reached my soul from the still earnest though often broken accents. Now it was that I first felt the waste of life to which I had yielded. It was from those pale lips I first heard the appeal, 'What! not find work in this great world of sin and of suffering? No tasks fit for you to do? and then the parting spirit had yet other breathings; words of far more awakening power. The hopes, the promises, the joys, that were to me but a vague and dreamy thought, were as a page written on her heart with the seal of the Most High. On these, as I sat by her, she dwelt in tones to which I listened as to some holy minstrelsy. 
               "But she was rapidly sinking. Those high breathings were more and more frequently interrupted by the faintness of mortal agony. Yet still, through those never-to-be-forgotten hours, as that faintness would pass, and the powers of life again rally back to the struggling heart, would she speak of the Eternal Life-of Him who had led Death captive-and of a reunion through Him, and beside living streams, with the earthly friend with whom she had so long walked in paths now faded and sere. 
               "The day-a long, soft, summer day-seemed yet to have hurried on, to hasten the release of the happy spirit. Towards evening it had been temporarily overcast, but it was now closing with the serenest beauty. A soft, brief shower had left the air full of that rich mellow glow which touches earth and sky into unwonted loveliness. The pervading radiance was noticed by Elizabeth. 
               "'Let me look at the skies once more.' 
               "We wheeled her to the open window. It presented one of those glorious pageants from which her nature had always drank a singular delight. A rainbow had at that moment stretched far and wide over the earth-a perfect arch from corner to corner of the heavens. What a look of unearthly brightness passed over the face of the young, dying believer! 
               "'See!' she said, pointing her cold white fingers earnestly towards it; 'see, Harley! His promise-so they shall all be fulfilled.' 
               "The bow, as it has done for thousands of years, stood for some moments over the earth-a witness not only of the covenant, but of the glories beyond-and then faded, slowly, solemnly, from the sky. 
               "'It has passed with the day,' said Elizabeth; 'it is growing dark-how quickly the night has come! I'm weary, Harley, but I shall rest now.-He giveth His beloved sleep!' 
               "She looked at her father, and then at me, earnestly, and a smile settled on her face.--Why did those that were about me speak in such sad whispers? Why did they draw the hand I was holding from me? True, it was cold, but it would have grown warm in mine. I heard one, answering some questioner at the door, say 'she is dead.' She was not dead! She still smiled on me-though there was a sadness not wont to it in the smile. They led me forcibly away. They robed the fair form in her snowy shroud, and then,-I was permitted once more to look on the calm, still face. And was grief the sole passion that was upon me as I thus stood by the dead? No! There was blent with it a solemn joy. I had been beloved by her who even on earth trod only the path of saintly duty, scattering flowers on her way. Never again could I deem myself one to whom no part was assigned among the wide labors of humanity. Henceforth my life was consecrate to effort, however humble. 
               "They came to dress the dead with the pale roses that in life she had so loved, and looked wonderingly at my calmness. It was only afterwards that I took in the sense of what they had done. I was listening still to the cold and sealed lips. I was still hearing them say, 'It is Love, oh Harley! that is the poetry and worth of life; such love as He who bought us bade us bear one another-such love as makes us laborers for good in life's lowliest places!'" 
                
               The simple story of Harley Ives was done, and deeply did we feel as the momently bowed head and clasped hands were revealed by the soft moonlight that had begun to glimmer through the trees, that there was no room for comment. Well indeed did the meek yet spiritual expression of that face and form accord with the character of one about to devote himself to the most self-sacrificing of human missions. It was no brief farewell that Harley Ives was about to bid us. With the morning's dawn he would be on his way to the nearest port where the vessel lay, that was to bear him to a far-distant and heathen land, in the service of missionary enterprise. But the holy faith that strengthened the worn and feeble frame to such high purpose, was yet unobtrusive, and he had already turned with his wonted smile of kindness to Carry, as she lay slumbering with her head on her father's knee. He was wakening her, to see the beauty of the evening star that lay reflected like a gem in the fountain at her feet. 
               We returned together to the house, talking over the many pleasant interests we had shared in common for the last time; and as we finally retired for the night, he bade us his last farewell. A gleam of his wonted kindly pleasantry passed over his face, as he said he had left in his room another tale or two for Aunt Quiet to read when he was gone, and against she come to make up the book he had spoken of. The story he had called "Aunt Hetty" did not, it was true, embrace any of the quondam heroes of the celebration; but having himself had a part in some of its scenes, he thought it belonged to the series. 
               And so we parted, never to meet again. In something less than two years, a return ship from the fatal shores to which he had been conveyed, brought us a pacquet from the mission family of which he had been a part. The life of shrinking sensibilities and tender sorrows had closed in Christian triumph. The gentle spirit had passed in perfect peace to join hers, whose faithful love had strengthened him to the fulfilment of labors, that, though nameless here, were surely not unrecorded in the Book of Life. 
               The papers he had left us were then taken up with a deepened feeling. I look at them with a tearful eye, as I now give them to my readers; and still I seem to feel the beamings of the earnest, though placid nature, that, among the listeners of Spring Grove, gave interest to all the narratives of Harley Ives. 
             
             
                
               AUNT HETTY. 
                
                  
                      
                        Yet still she filled life's task, although a part 
                        In its glad sunshine was no more her own, 
                        Toiling with busy feet-the while her heart 
                        Gave out a voiceless but unceasing moan. 
                     
                   
                
               THE instances in which I have been called, since journeying on your western waters, to witness the mortal grasp of the Asiatic destroyer now among us, has more than once made me sick at heart. But I have just returned from the burial of one of its victims, with feelings so like the music of Carroll, that I cannot resist the impulse of sitting down at once to give you the story (for story it is) in detail. 
               I am alone, in the principal hotel of a village on the eastern bank of your great highway of waters. It is September, and the day has been the very blandest; but when I landed here, last evening, the weather seemed to have the breezeless sultriness of a southern August. On recognizing the place as the stopping-point of my voyage, I was struck with its appearance. I had spent a night here some two months previous, and it was then all astir with business life. Now there seemed to hang over it a quiet like that of perfect desolation. I was not permitted, however, to dwell on the matter, my attention being drawn to an object of more immediate and most painful interest. Beside me, as I passed from the boat, two or three of the hands were carrying from it the stalwart but convulsed form of a young man, who, knowing as I did that the cholera was on board, I saw at once was struggling with the fierce agonies of that terrible malady. 
               But what time was there to mind the death-throes of a mere fellow-being? Action and emprise are the only influences to get a hearing on our great highways. The poor fellow was tossed on the wharf, with evident satisfaction to the bearers at getting rid of their burden. The rush of steam, the voice of command, the plash of waves, mingled in one stirring sound, and again the boat was ploughing on her way, as if the principle that impelled it were the very lord of destiny. I had myself approached the sufferer with no light interest, but was unable to make the least personal effort; being not only in great anguish at the moment, but moving with extreme difficulty. A severe sprain in my only efficient foot, some few hours previous, and want of attention, had caused it to become violently inflamed. But some three or four men, of that well-known class that haunt the river purlieus, were lounging about the wharf, and to these I applied to have the sick man carried to the hotel, but a few rods distant. At my appeal one of them carelessly approached the sufferer, and stood looking with perfect unconcern at the face already distinctly marked with that peculiar seal which is perhaps the most appalling of death's many signets. 
               "Cholera, eh? Nothing to notice here, stranger," said he; "Come, brace up, old Ben," he added, turning, without the least notice of my continued and urgent appeal, to a stout-looking personage, who was nevertheless availing himself of a post for support; "no rest for the wicked, man-another grave's to be dug to-night! No baby's neither," he added, touching the struggling form with his foot; "some long inches to cover when they're once fairly straitened." 
               Happily, I believe the brutal allusion did not reach its unconscious object; yet it was with some difficulty I kept myself calm. 
               "Suppose," said I, flinging him a small bill as the only argument ment that could at all avail, "suppose you are a little charier of your wit till the man is taken care of. Make some arrangements for taking him to the Eagle, and let a doctor be called without a moment's delay." 
               "Faith!" he replied, looking at the bill with a peculiar sort of meditative satisfaction, "doctors are getting scarce among us. Only one left, and he green as a frog-pond. But what do you want of one? You don't know much about the cholera, I reckon, stranger. Why, the fellow's caved in already." 
               "There's life yet," said I, "and therefore something to be done. Pray, don't waste any more words." 
               "Well, well," said the man, evidently one of those busy, bustling, officious spirits that are leaders in their class; "any thing in the way of trade. Dan Garnett is not one of them as turns his back to a job. Bear a hand, comrades," he called out to the others standing on the wharf; "best get a blanket-here's one the wharfman died on himself yesterday-good as any. Stir yourselves quickly! live men are lighter than dead ones, and he'll be heavier soon. We'll handle him kearfully enough," he added, in reply to my impulse; "but you see, stranger, we'd better by half let the council know there's another coffin wanted than to be troubling him now." 
               "Never mind-carry him steadily!" Alas! I too saw that a mightier hand than that of human strength was upon him; but I could not leave him thus. 
               "Bear ahead, then," said Dan Garnett; "hold up, old Ben-strike a bee-line, old rat! Aint got enough to steady you, eh? Well, the bar at the old Eagle aint drained out yet." 
               "You have the cholera badly in your village, I suppose," said I, remembering, as I hobbled on painfully beside the bearers, the dubious intimation of my new acquaintance. 
               "Not at all, stranger-not a case among us-wound up here, sir-closed the concern teetotally. Them as is left here now is hard subjects. You'll find poor entertainment, I'm thinking, at the Eagle. You've staid there afore now, haven't you? Well, there's some little difference in things now. Them as was flying about there two weeks ago, ladies and boarders and waiters, and what not, have all took private lodgings. Boss and the old cook have come through, and that's all. Wife and three young daughters all gone-pretty girls, too! proud as Lucifer-though but small room have they for airs now. Them's the last we buried this very morning. Plenty of quiet room for travellers, you see.-Let down your load, boys; let's see if boss is stirring. I rather think, though, he's hanging by the graves yet. What do you think now, stranger?" he asked, as the burden was lowered, and he turned a look of careless scrutiny to the livid face; "short work it makes, and sure-gone off, though, very quietly," he continued, still looking at the darkened face with perfect complacency; "they don't all go that way. Do you mind, Ben, the screech that old Hughes fetched as the last breath went out of him? I never stir if it didn't go through me like an ague-shake. The old fellow," he added, turning to me, "was the richest man in the place-griping old landholder-and you see he was bound not to die. But the grinning old skeleton held on to him jest as he would to a poor fellow that owed him; and now he's got but five feet of ground left.-One more hist, comrades! We must take the corpse round to old Judith; the Eagle, I 'low, will have to give it lodging for to-night any how. It's going to be tremendous squally by appearance, and ther'll be poor chance likely to give it snugger quarters afore morning" 
               I had sunk, during these remarks, upon the steps of the portico, unable to stand from the fast increasing anguish of my limb; but connecting with the name of Judith (whom I remembered as the old black cook) the possibility of relief, I got up once more and hobbled eagerly after them. The old woman was sitting alone at the back of the silent and empty house, swaying herself to and fro with a leisure to which she was no doubt little accustomed. The approach of the ghastly burden borne towards her appeared to excite in her neither dismay, awe, revolt, nor surprise. Her mind was evidently already too full of the images of death to admit a single new impression. 
               "Come, Judith, bestir yourself," said Dan Garnett; "here's travellers ahead. One of 'em, though, don't want nothing but lodging. Where shall we stow him? in the porch here?" 
               "Well, I suppose," replied the old woman, her own stony aspect seeming more like the dead than the living, "you can lay him on that table thar; its whar they've all been laid out principally." 
               "Well, there he is! Straiten him out, boys. Aunt Hetty ought to be here now to close his eyes-rather stary, I think!-but you can do that, Judith. Fix up his jaws, too, while your hand is in. Stow away his plunder, Ben-enough in that big trunk, I judge, for decent fixing without his being beholden. But go one of you and see if the councilmen have any thing to say about it,-and stay! take 'em the measure for the coffin-six feet good; and mind, Ben, you get the grave started before sun-up." 
               I had at once appealed to old Judith for some effort in my own behalf, and I was now waiting, not without some impatience, upon her tardy movements in fulfilling the melancholy office pointed out to her. 
               "Aunt Hetty, now, likes to fix up dead folks," said Dan Garnett, returning from the bar where, as he said with a significant nod at old Judith, he had gone to see if the brandy was likely to hold out provided it should be needed in some new case. 
               "If it was not such a night now," he continued (and in truth the storm-spirits were by this time fairly up), "I'd go and bring Duchy to smooth him up a little. I ought to do it any how," he added, his visit at the bar already calling the amenities of his nature into high exercise; "the good soul has along been sent for when a corpse was to be rigged out in their last gear, and she seems to sort o 'look for it." 
               "And mighty well it was too, for them as had friends to bury," said Judith, seeming for the first time to reply in a tone of human interest; "she was not only willing, but she seemed to have a 'ticular strength like, when every body else was down, and them that wasn't weren't none too willing to lend a hand. But you'd be foolish enough to trouble her to-night, let the weather be fair or foul. I 'speck no body can hold out allays. She jist gone from dead to dead, and haint laid her head on a pillar a whole night since she first put her hand to it. Any how, what odds does it make to a stark body like that, whether you cover him up as he is, or in span clean rigging? He's got no friends, I 'low, to trouble themselves." 
               Judith's reasoning seemed for a time conclusive; and opening an inner door, she now pointed out to me a lounge, which she assured me was all fresh changed, and of which I was most thankful to avail myself. Dan Garnett meanwhile ensconced himself in an arm chair at my side, and whistled Dan Tucker with great self-complacency, and in strange dissonance to the dirge-like winds now shrieking without, which it required little effort of fancy to imagine were wailing for those they would wake no longer. 
               Meanwhile the preparations which the old woman had set herself earnestly about for my suffering limb proved of no avail. Specifics hitherto infallible in my case were vain. Even that of brandy-the one friend, Dan Garnett said, in all need, and which he insisted on pouring out most lavishly for my relief, failed. My distress was indeed extreme, and the inflammation was evidently assuming a rather serious character. 
               "Well, my good fellow," said I to Dan Garnett,-we get wonderfully meek when suffering forces home upon us our real dependence upon each other,-" it is storming fearfully, but if I wait on it long I shall be in a fair way to lose my leg. Bring your doctor to me if he is green; you are too old a stager to mind the weather." 
               "Of course," said my ready friend, his kindly mood having as yet had no chance to evaporate; "Dan Garnett aint sugar nor salt to mind a little thunder and lightning, and it aint a doctor's business to lie a-bed, no how. Get me a numberil, Judith; I don't want it for myself, but while I'm out I'll jist go round and fetch Aunt Hetty." 
               "I tell ye then again ye'd be mighty foolish, massa Garnett, that's sartain," she replied; "I s'pose though ye're not in earnest." 
                
               Dan, however, was not only in earnest, but with that maudlin pertinacity of purpose that was not to be overruled, terrible as the storm was,-bending the umbrella which he attempted to raise so roughly that he flung it back into the porch,-he started bravely ahead; and we had not long to wait the issue. A few minutes after the entrance of the physician, who came speedily at the summons, Dan returned himself, accompanied by Aunt Hetty. So at least she was addressed by Judith and the doctor-by the latter with great kindness and even respect; and despite my extremity of suffering, I could but look with something of curiosity at the person to whom such striking reference had been repeatedly made. All my preconceived ideas, however, of a weird old woman with an indurated and Meg Merrilies frame and spirit, was put aback by the quiet and quaint figure (for she was dressed in the peculiar garb of her countrywomen) that stood before me. She seemed scarcely forty, though the fair German complexion and the great length of soft brown hair, that could not have been so plainly arranged as to lose its grace, might make her seem much younger than she really was. Her features, too, small and perfectly regular, had a softness that it seemed no exposure could displace. But what rivetted my attention was the intense sorrow that was the fixed expression of every lineament and motion. The expression was unobtrusive-silent, but not to be mistaken. It lay a strange depth of gloom in the light blue eye. The features, that but for it one would have instinctively associated with health, and hope, and all genial affections, were fairly steeped in it. It startled me in the soft German accent with which she replied in broken English to the doctor's kind inquiries for her welfare. Even in the ready movement with which she set about assisting him in some preparation for my suffering limb (ready, but most saddened), it was yet an accompaniment. 
               The especial task for which she had been brought was not now to be thought of. The storm was rushing violently through the porch where the body lay, repeatedly extinguishing the light with which Aunt Hetty strove more than once to shield it from the beating elements, notwithstanding Judith's assurance that "the dead man didn't mind it, any how," together with occasional asseverations of Dan Garnett's foolishness in troubling her at all about the matter-a reprehension in which even the doctor, a young but amiable man, who evidently gave a full heart's sympathy where skill proved unavailing, seemed disposed fully to join. 
               "Our friend Dan has certainly shown more thought for the dead than the living," said he, "a rather questionable duty, as I take it. But Aunt Hetty," he said, turning to her with a serious interest in his manner, "owes something to herself; and as soon as the storm lulls, I move she go home and waive the unpleasant office for which she has been summoned." 
               I looked at Aunt Hetty. The answer came slowly, after some minutes, during which she seemed hesitating whether to reply. She said in the lowest tones,-and oh! how mournful-"I has dressed great many as had moder and sister." 
               Judith's previous argument had already reversed the inference, but the doctor bowed to it without reply. 
               The night wore on. By degrees there fell a hush, both on the elemental turmoil and the human sounds of the hour. Dan Garnett lay stretched on the floor in a profound slumber. Judith had swayed herself to sleep in her chair, and my own plaints, rather loud and deep for the credit of my manhood, were subsiding rapidly in a growing sense of ease. Only the tones of the doctor, still drawn out by my eager questioning, and dwelling with infinite feelings upon the details of the visitation that had depopulated the place, were now to be heard. How heart-rending were those details! What a power of human suffering did they attest! "Facts," said the narrator, "that make medical science a mere dream; that called out, too, in the most vivid opposition, the darkest and brightest traits of our nature. Friend fled friend. Others took post beside strangers and enemies. Throughout all I have described to you," he added, with a look of gratified recollection, "there was one humble and quiet spirit, that was never for a moment idle. From the hour the scourge was among us, she was always to be found amid the scenes of its most terrible triumph. A watcher by the dying, their tire-woman for the grave, Aunt Hetty was at all hours devoted to tasks from which the nerve of manhood might have well shrunk." 
               "Aunt Hetty!" I repeated, looking round for her, at the mention thus of her name. Where was she? She had passed from the room without a sound, or I should have noticed her. 
               "She has probably," said the doctor, glancing at the partly open door, "settled herself out there with the dead body; such place seems always to suit her feelings in preference to any other." 
               He was not mistaken. Amid the dim light breaking through the still struggling clouds, I discerned her sitting on a low stool, in attitude now as motionless as the outstretched form whose ghastly length lay before her. 
               "Some morbid feelings," continued the doctor, "have doubtless had some bearing upon her singular devotedness, but even these have to me something in them almost sacred. Poor Aunt Hetty! Sorrow has in truth raised her above life's common instincts." 
               "And what have been her sorrows?" said I; "you seem to know them. I had already fancied there was a history in her face-pray, what is it?" 
               "Well, it is a very brief one; a single fact, as it does that of many others, forming a sombre web to her whole life. She came a few years since with her husband and an only son, of some twenty years, from Germany. They settled here upon some rough grounds which they purchased upon the outskirts of the village, and which they soon converted into a pretty and pleasant home, alike marked by taste and toil. Industry and rural neatness with our German emigrants is rather a national than individual distinction; but Aunt Hetty's neighbors soon learned to distinguish her as a superior woman of her class-gentle, cheerful, active, self-sacrificing, true, and kind, with an ever-ready and open hand, and with her soft, broken English full of soul and sunshine. 
               "But occasional clouds were flitting over this usually happy spirit-an evil daily deepening, that could but wake in a mother's prescient heart many a boding fear. The son, who was evidently the very daylight of her soul, a handsome and manly-looking fellow, with an open and generous nature, as I am told, was adventurous and dissipated-the fine elements of his mother's nature, which he perhaps inherited, being robbed of their beauty in his, by excess and perversion. No amount of indulgent tenderness,-for both father and mother were devoted to their boy,-could keep him under the paternal roof. Returning thither only occasionally, and with tokens of reckless habitudes that made these visits but seasons of troubled misgivings, he spent most of his time on the river, or at some of the various ports, but always it would seem in idle and profitless adventure. 
               "The father at last sickened. A painful disease fastened on him, with which his strong frame struggled for months; and all this time his son was wholly absent. Death finally released him; but ere he died, a rumor had come that the young man, having been engaged in an affray where one of the party fell a victim, was imprisoned in New Orleans. From what I know of Aunt Hetty's character, she would have gone to him at once; but she might not leave her dying husband to another's care. A few days after released her from this duty; but she returned from the grave to read in a letter from one of her fellow-emigrants,-who could write a mother such things?-that her boy was to be hung-upon what day-and other horrible minuti; though the terrible day was already past, for the letter had by some casualty been delayed. A young German girl at service in the place was with her when the dreadful missive was received. Long afterwards she was asked in my hearing, by some one more curious than feeling, how Aunt Hetty bore the news. She burst into tears, and wringing her hands bitterly, exclaimed, 'Mein Got! mein Got! may I never see such another agony!' 
               "But from that hour nobody, I am told, has ever heard from Aunt Hetty herself the slightest allusion to her sorrows. Since that time, indeed, she has been rarely seen; going always when called for to the sick, but never otherwise leaving her own domicil voluntarily, till since our visitation from the cholera. Her little garden, however, was still worked and kept with its wonted neatness; being not only her means of livelihood, but, as my professional rounds among the destitute have led me to know, of many a little charity still extended to them through the medium of an orphan child in her service. But so carefully has she seemed to avoid all human eye, that even her out-door labors are done in the early morning ere her neighbors are astir, or when she can avail herself of moonlight hours, lengthened far into the night,-as are my yarns, I perceive," added the doctor, looking at his watch, with a sudden and good-natured change of voice and manner. "We are getting, I see, into the small hours, and you are easy-thanks to Aunt Hetty's suggestions, I suspect, more than to my own skill. You can sleep now," he said, taking his hat, with a bland smile, quite as soothing as the opiate he had administered; "I am not sure, indeed, but you've been dozing already, fancying, no doubt, you were some prince with a pensioned storyteller at your bedside. But settle yourself now to bright dreams-a privilege I shall hasten to take myself, if it may be permitted me." 
               And so he left me-in a silence. And now I was at last permitted to think over all the gloomy images the last few hours had presented. What a night it had been! By what associations I was surrounded! and yet, thanks to our most concentrated human selfishness, I slept at once, profoundly forgetful of all the late anguish of the stricken household-of the many darkened habitations around me; awoke, too, after some hours of pleasant rest, to a sense of perfect satisfaction at finding myself still at ease. Some matin sounds indicated that the morning was breaking, but its cold gray obscurity afforded no incentive to shake off my slumber. A light, dim and feeble, I saw was burning in the porch, where Aunt Hetty had probably still kept her vigil, and I heard steps there; but my mind was as yet too inert to make any questioning in regard to them. I had again closed my eyes, and lay in that half dreamy state, when the outer sense receives what yet the thought takes no cognizance of. A low murmur of soft, sorrowful sounds had come fitfully upon my ear for some time, ere I rallied sufficiently to distinguish them from the seeming sighs and the various sounds that followed the storm. But my perceptions cleared. It must be Aunt Hetty! and raising myself at last, with a strong feeling of interest, I looked through the glass panel of my door, which she must have closed while I slept, to see if I were right. She was still as when I last observed her, alone with the dreamless sleeper, but not, as then, motionless. She was bending over the body with a near but dim lamp-light flickering on the fixed lineaments, and was adjusting the hair and the position of the head with great care. But while thus busied, she was from time to time uttering in her own language, which it chanced that I familiarly understood, expressions of wailing tenderness and implied despondence, that I find it impossible to translate. At times she paused in her task, and stood for a moment contemplating the features, doubtless so changed that even love could not have recalled the lineaments-such is the effacing touch of the cholera; and then again turning from the earnest gaze, and renewing the endeavor to soften the dark traces of the spoiler, she would break into renewed utterances of the most heartbreaking pathos. 
               "Ah! these thick black curls! so glossy yet. Some mother has been proud once,-smooth 'em out this way, and lay them round the great forehead. She will think this a sorrow-she will bow her head, when she should raise it and give thanks. Let the angels whisper it to her; let them bid her give praise by day and by night-her God has not hidden his face when her mother's heart cried to him." 
               So full of unimaginable sorrow were the tones, that in very pain of hearing, though I could but listen with my whole soul, I was glad when they were interrupted. The burly sleeper on the floor uproused himself, and the first sound of his voice drove back the broken wail to the sorrowing heart. She turned to him at once as he now stood beside her, with the same settledness of look she had previously worn. 
               "You said dere was tings to put on him?" 
               "Did I?" said Garnett, applying his hand to his head as if he would dig up the recollection; "well, I can't say exactly-sort o' foggy this morning. There's his trunk, though-remember bringing it along. Plenty in that, I reckon, by its heft," pushing it towards her, touching the lock too at the same time no ways gently with his foot; "open, too, I guess-the boat-hands flung it on the wharf as if it burnt their fingers. There!" he continued, wrenching open the lid as Hetty looked at it somewhat hesitatingly, and now flinging from it a quantity of decent and most neatly arranged clothing; "plenty for scores of dead men, you see, and nicer lots than they need be for such an outfit; money, too, if more's wanted," he added, as a kerchief with a corner tied up fell heavily on the floor. 
               Aunt Hetty was evidently disturbed by the unwarranted freedom. "Oh, I want nothing but dese," she said, laying by a few articles, and putting the rest back anxiously in their previous order. "Can you no fix de lock?" she said, examining it herself, and then assisting to tie a cord tightly around it. "Do you, Judy, put it away safe (for the old woman and myself were now part of the group) till de master may-be will be able to see no ting wrong is done." 
               She then turned back to the body. "Ah, yes! if you will be so good den," she continued, in reply to my proffer of the little assistance I was able to render, and putting in my hands the articles she had selected. Then raising the body herself-an effort of which, indeed, she looked incapable-she was reaching to me for some of the intended array, when a small volume fell from beneath the vest she had just loosened. Her eye fell on it with an intensity I can never forget. I stooped to pick it up. The binding had some marks of foreign style, and the leaves falling open as it fell, I saw it was a German Bible. The name "Henrique Van Ernstein" was written on a blank leaf, with the words in German, "Given me by my dear mother, April 27, 18-," and striking my eye as I raised it, I read them involuntarily aloud. 
               "Henrique Van Ernstein!" The sound was echoed back on my ear in a cry so startling, so strong, so thrilling, that months after I seemed occasionally to hear it. The body fell rather than was laid back from her hold, as she turned her head to clutch the book from my hand. 
               "My God! my God!"-again she spoke in her own language-"'tis his! 'tis my boy's! 'tis Henrique's!"-and then suddenly turning her gaze wildly, but with a fixed look, for a moment on the face of the dead, she uttered yet another cry, bearing in its prolonged tones the very extremity of human emotion, and then fell on the body, clasping it round in a hold in which all the vain yearnings of long years seemed concentrated. She was pouring out upon that dull, cold ear expressions and names of passionate fondness, with which a mother's heart only overflows. "Mine own! mine own! my boy! my Henrique! my beloved! my beautiful!" 
               Mightier indeed is Love than Death, said I mentally, as I would fain have drawn her from the ghastly embrace. The effort was all unheeded. Yet again and again, kissing the livid lips, she would raise herself to fix a lengthened gaze on the face, seeming with every moment, as she thus stood tracing the lineaments, to find some new line familiar to her heart,-all this while, too, continuing to pour out such a flood of the very agony of joy, of maternal passion in its utmost excess, as few of those whose lives reach the longest date can call to memory. "My boy! My Henrique! How was it I had forgot to know my own? A mother to look strangely on her boy! How should I think he had filled a grave of shame?-his mother?-but he comes himself-comes to tell her of the black falsehood. It is he-it is Henrique! Oh, thou great and merciful Lord God! thou art indeed a God of truth and justice and pity and forgiveness and loving-kindness!" 
               But these bursts of the many mingling passions of the poor woman's soul at last subsided. They were finally merged in one absorbing strength of prayer, or rather of thanksgiving, poured out upon her knees beside her dead, in His ear who has all power to tranquillize the surging billows. And from that outpouring of thanks and praise, how calm she at last arose. Calm, did I say? There was a radiance in the serenity of that now still face, bespeaking a peace that the poor estimate of our more human feelings may not measure. With this look she now turned to the making arrangements for the burial of her boy. Again with kisses-oh! how fond, but now scarcely mournful-she arranged the curls of such unchanged beauty round the capacious brow, and once more, as she had been wont in other days, she folded the snowy shirt over the bosom, icy and unconscious now, but whose last pulse she knew had been true to her and to the teachings of those happier days. And there, too, she again placed the treasured volume that had been her last gift of love. That it had been the stay and solace of her wandering Henrique, there could be no doubt. It was much worn. Upon a second blank leaf, bearing a date to her of most awful memory, he had written some brief expressions of intense thankfulness, seeming to imply an unexpected deliverance from some dark impending fate; and throughout the whole volume, many of whose pages were now scarcely legible, there were leaves turned down, marking those especial passages in which the soul of penitence finds utterance for its own emotions. 
               There are still tokens in our debased nature of better elements that were once a part of it. They who had, the preceding evening, looked with such reckless faces on the dying man, were again present. They had come with the hearse that had been sent round for the body. But their countenances now had taken a touch of feeling. Aunt Hetty's dissolute but open-handed boy had, it seemed, been well known to them, and of this her simple expression denoted her aware. Pointing to the body, she said, quietly, "Look at him-it is Henrique!" Some others, too, were there. Despite the desolation of the place, a half dozen persons gathered around the mourner and her dead. They were perhaps of those who knew her only as a late tender at the bedside of their own dying. Among them, with his hat drawn over his brow, was the master of the house, whose steps, through my long waking hours the preceding night, I had heard traversing the empty chambers. All were at last ready and waiting to attend Aunt Hetty with the remains back to her cottage-for there where the father slept, the son was also to be laid. I had feared my kind doctor, who had also joined us (grasping my hand with a smile not at variance with the tears he struggled to suppress), might veto my attempt to accompany them; but he gave me his arm to help me to the little vehicle he had in waiting, without a syllable. 
               It was one of those mornings of soft brightness that so often follow a night of storms. The glad ministrants of nature, revivified by it, were pouring out balm, and beauty, and fragrance, and melody, on every hand. But these bright influences awake no thought of jarring dissonance with earth's tenderer sorrows. They have too much of holiness. The sound of bird and bee, and the stir of "young leaves," as we passed, seemed to melt into the deep funeral hush that was upon our sense. We reached the grave, as yet scarcely completed by those who had gone forward with the first dawn for that purpose. It was in a deeply shaded and grassy nook of a little enclosure pertaining to the cottage, and planted by him on whose grave their blossoms were yearly shed, with orchard trees. Even the face of Dan Garnett, now speedily completing the task in which he had voluntarily engaged, attested, as he at last stood leaning on his spade, the spell and power of some sanctifying presence. One of Aunt Hetty's German neighbors, who had been early an assistant sharer in the scenes of the morning, read the burial service in their own language. The mother's hands were clasped, but seemingly in prayer-not in anguish. A few sobs and murmurs met my ear-not bitter, but low and tender-evidently Love's last farewell-and then her voice, singularly musical and deep, went up through the stillness of the secluded spot in an anthem of mingled faith and thanks-giving. Deeper and clearer the strain arose, as strengthening the soul that breathed it. The doctor whisperingly admonished me of the prudence of returning, but it was with reluctance that I turned from the spot. The triumphant tones were yet floating away to the still heavens, beyond which, no doubt, the angels were also hymning the safe housing of the erring Henrique. 
                
               [With the papers he left me, my little volume should have perhaps closed. The simple details of his own gentle life afforded the last sketch I was ever enabled to gather of any of the young assemblage presented in its opening chapters. But in gathering up my material, a little narrative has again come under my notice, that, after the departure of Harley Ives,-at one of those dreary equinoctial seasons suggestive of no other sentiment but the pathetic refrain of the song of the clown, "The rain it raineth every day,"-was told to our little circle to beguile the ennui of the hour. A western story it is, and as such found favor-not only with Carry (who said: "Who would have thought of Aunt Quiet's telling a real love story?-if it was a true one, which of course it was, or she never would have thought of it"), but with our host himself; for it was connected with that to him still new world, about which he never ceased to question, till, on a subsequent visit to its forests and cities, its giant growth and nature were all before him.-But as touching the story. We have been induced to add it to our collection, that the reader who has become fairly wearied of the sober details drawn from common paths, may finally turn for relief to one of the romances for which every page of our western annals affords the "warp and woof."] 
             
             
                
                
               ASHTON GREY. 
                
                  I. 
                  THERE are doubtless yet a few survivors of the pioneers who laid the corner-stones of our Queen City, to whom its aspect at the opening of our story is still a "picture of memory." The long conflict with a terrible foe was then finally, though recently terminated; the fires of the Indian were at last extinct, and a peace like the dews of Hermon had settled on the fair land that had been for years the arena of deadly strife. The soldier's huts that had covered the site of our modern Tyre had disappeared; the fortress that had protected our armies was dismantled, and a population, composed of almost every nation and every class, hurrying on like many waters and meeting with resistless impetus, was about to carry up a proud city from the very bosom of a hitherto almost unbroken and interminable wilderness, with a rapidity that made it seem like an isle sprung in the "night-time" from the everlasting solitudes of the deep. 
                  But the place as yet retained much of its character of primeval wildness. The heavy shadows of the old forests, that still stretched from it on either hand in "boundless contiguity," lay darkly over it; and within their embosoming glooms little more than rude evidences of the mighty influences already at work met the eye. Charred and blackened trees, with all their glories in the dust, yet lay across its remoter paths. Pools and spots of marsh, yet undrained, sent up their dank miasmas, and glancing myriads of fireflies, and the hoarse music of the dwellers of the pool, were the accompaniments of the evening. But already the mingled hum of a people elate with hope, and pressing gaily forward to the goal of promised affluence,-the bustle of incipient commerce, the sound of various crafts, the quick tread of men impelled by cheerful and stirring impulses, the rich broad laugh of conscious and independent freemen, and the harsher voices of rough and untamed spirits, whom the call of peace had bidden from the war-path to employments perhaps less suited to their stormy natures,-were all heard in this city of the wilderness. 
                  Here and there a dwelling had already risen, distinguished by palpable indications of wealth and pretension; and from one of these, a woman, whose appearance denoted poverty and servile occupation, issued one cold November evening, and bent her steps towards, in western phrase, a cabin, in the outskirts of the place. There was weariness upon her countenance; but as she drew near the humble domicil, to which her eye had been directed as she hastened forward, it required no effort of a fine imagination to read in her still quickened step, and the brightening expression of features, till then wholly commonplace, the history of a mother returning from a day of toil to the family of helpless ones, whom she had left but to procure them bread. We almost fancy that we hear her murmuring some fond expressions of maternal yearning, as her eye exclusively rests upon the rude dwelling, and we feel how to her that dwelling is consecrated by the tender ones it shelters. Her step has seemed weary-it is now quick and almost joyous; she is in thought already clasping her little ones-she is within a few paces of her threshold. They are probably locked in slumber, but she will lay the little dainties she brings them upon their eyelids. 
                  At that moment a flame, broad and vivid, shot up from the roof. Its glare upon her face revealed the wild and sudden agony that went out the next moment in a scream of curdling horror. Thrillingly it went out upon the calm evening-thrillingly it must have met the ear of all within the sound; and they came running-laborers, craftsmen returning to their own homes-neighbors, strangers, all gathered to the spot. The mother lay on the ground. She had broken open the door of the dwelling and fallen suffocated and senseless. It was thoroughly on fire, and a volume of smoke and flame was pouring forth upon the air. The crowd, too paralyzed to act, stood round in deep but unavailing sympathy. Was it certain that her children were in the house? The inquiry ran through the circle. The cry of infant voices gave an appalling answer. The mother, for that cry had restored her to a frenzied consciousness, was held back from the flames only by force. Strong men were there, and stern ones-men upon whose rough lineaments the red glare revealed the scars of ferocious conflict; but even these were subdued as those childish screams reached the ear of the delirious and struggling mother. 
                  At this terrible moment a young man, who had been seen only for an instant amid the crowd, reappeared with a ladder. The throng gave place in silence-hope sprung in every heart as they looked at him; there was that in his face which defied impossibilities. The ladder was placed against a corner of the house that the flames had not yet reached, and rapidly ascending it, he tore away the materials of the roof with a strength which the exigence of the moment only could have given him, and disappeared amid a shower of cinders that streamed up through the aperture. In the opposite part of the building the lower logs seemed already about to give way, and every moment threatened to precipitate the whole into one indiscriminate and burning mass. There were a few moments of agonizing suspense-of a silence more breathless, more terrible, than that with which men await the last gasp of the dying-and then a shout, such a shout as the throng sends forth under the most powerful excitement of the soul's better sympathies, which rung far and wide over the now rushing sound of the combustion. The young man stood above them, almost surrounded by flames, a witness of the superhuman might
                      there is in high purpose. Two children enveloped in a blanket, which he had torn from the cot from which they had been awakened by the flames, were in his arms; and tossing them into the far brawnier arms below, he turned to assist yet a third-a boy of some eight years old, who was struggling of himself to get up to the roof, and was the next moment in safety on the ladder, now upheld by strong hands rather than the tottering building. 
                  Who shall meddle with the feelings of the mother now? Her children are in her arms-her soul is pouring itself out to her God. We leave her with them and Him. But the crowd are asking for the young man who had imperiled his life to save them; they would applaud the heroism that effected the rescue. But the hero is not among them. When there was no more to be done, he had sprung to the ground with the bound of the mountain cat, and disappeared, as all eyes were drawn to the crash of the falling ruin. 
                  The hour of calmness comes to the strongest scene of human emotion as it does to the wildest tempest. The sobs of the mother and the gratulations of the crowd grew silent. The many dispersed, and the few that remained were immediate and kind neighbors, who gathered around her with contending offers of a temporary home. Among the last of the lingerers of the less familiar crowd was a young girl, who had manifested throughout the scene an intensity of feeling that her delicate frame seemed unable to support. While the issue remained doubtful, she had stood silent, but with clasped hands, and a face as still and as colorless as marble; but when the rescue was at last certain, her tears fell fast, and she shrunk back as if to hide her emotions. Yet once or twice she had approached the mother, as if wishing in some way to tranquillize the agony of joy that seemed as far too mighty for the maternal heart as had been the moment of despair; but if such were her purpose, timidity had checked the effort. Now, as she at last glided away with the matron by whom she had been accompanied, she murmured, in the sweetest and saddest of tones, though scarcely audible, "I have no home to offer her." 
                   
                  The exceeding beauty of the young face had attracted notice. Curiosity is a distinctive trait in the social habits of all new settlements. "Who is she?" was an inquiry that was scarce suppressed till it would no longer meet her own ear, and now taking no small share of interest with the benevolent arrangements being made for the houseless neighbor. Nor did the little details thus elicited fail to deepen the truly kind feelings her look and manner had awakened. She was, it would seem, the daughter of a stranger who had been buried a day or two previous in the village-was still at the boarding-house where her father had died-"and as far as I can gather," said one who seemed to have learned something of her history, "is left without a friend to kear for her, or any means of support, except perhaps a few fine notions that'll pay her way for a while, may-be." 
                  "Poor thing!" said another, who from her look of deep pity was probably undergoing her own novitiate in wild-wood life; "poor thing! She does not look like one accustomed to the smoke of a western cabin." 
                  Ah! little used enough to aught but summer airs and sunshine was the unconscious subject of these remarks; but there was deep sorrow on the fair, pale face now, and no eye could have followed the drooping figure, as she walked slowly back to her lodgings, without interest. The first object that met her melancholy eye, as its dark silken lashes were timidly lifted at her entrance, was the young man whom she had just seen in a character of such exceeding heroism. The bandages with which one arm and hand were bound, and the many suggestions of relief with which friends were crowding around him, at once told that he had been no inconsiderable sufferer in the recent scene. But the glance of pitying interest that Annabel Hampden (that was her name) lifted unconsciously to his face, was met by a look of animation-a glow of satisfied and happy feeling, that disclaimed all title to compassion. Whatever he endured, it had failed to cast a shadow upon that glow. The young mourner shrunk back from the deep gaze he flung over her own form; and bidding the matron, upon whose arm she had still leaned, a low and silvery good night, she stole quietly from the apartment. But she bore to her own an excited and haunted fancy. Sorrowful memories, and recent and deep regrets, were strangely blended, as she sought her pillow, with new and strongly intruding images. That of the youthful stranger was not indeed calculated to be thrown aside at will; and when they met the following morning at breakfast, the unwonted glow on the maiden's delicate cheek might, to one who had known her, have half revealed the troubled and vivid fancies that had hovered round her pillow. 
                  Who could this young man be? We deem not that Annabel even thought the question. But a slow fever, the consequence of his injuries, confined him to his lodgings, and his increased sufferings, receiving as they did, from the inadequate facilities and the claims of a crowded house, a very irregular and inefficient attention, were not wholly in his power to disguise. And gradually she was led on, with the timid approaches of a partly tamed bird, to proffer some little service of herself to the sufferer; making at times the prescribed teas-smoothing the buffalo robe on which he tossed so restlessly; and at last venturing, with her own white and trembling fingers, to dress the terrible wounds. A most perilous position this for the young nature that looked out, while she was thus busied, from those ardent eyes! they were neither blue, nor black, nor brown, nor hazel, nor any one of the approved colors of romance, save as the expression of feeling that perpetually clouded or irradiated their depths varied their hue; and had the fair nurse been a physiologist, which in those days young ladies were not, she would have soon discovered how with every day the young pulses throbbed more and more wildly at the touch of these, her own delicate fingers. 
                  While these very natural results to the young knight-errant were rendering him with unwonted meekness less and less anxious to disavow his invalid claims, the peculiar tone and bearing of a character entirely new to her, was acquiring a strong power over the pure but perhaps somewhat dreamy imagination of the gentle Annabel. Something there was about him that fully accorded with her beau-ideal of the distinctive characteristics of the fearless and self-sustained backwoodsman. The untamed horse that tosses his mane in the green savannahs, could scarcely have moved with more freedom; and the perfect development of limb and muscle evidently arose from the conscious vigor and habitual action of one accustomed to tread, not the gay saloon, and prescribed walks of fashion, but the rough paths of danger, and the limitless range of voiceless solitudes. But then his manner! How could it be so utterly exempt from the imposing conventionalities of civilized life, and yet without a touch of the rude, the coarse, the commonplace, or of aught that could lessen one's sense of his well-tested chivalry? If he was indeed a son of the west, the wild unreclaimed west,-and various allusions to early forest adventure and associations, drawn out by chance remarks from those around him, and to which she had been a listener, was confirmation of this,-to what did he owe that strange tone of refinement? a refinement not of fashion, nor poetic culture, nor classic taste; but yet coloring every word and action. These questionings certainly found no definite shape, much less a language, in Annabel's girlish and innocent mind. But without such attempt to trace its developments, she was unconsciously yielding day by day to the power of a high nature, whose innate delicacy was refinement, and whose generous impulses, chivalry. Her thought did not even rest on the extreme beauty that, from fair lips, rarely failed to find mention with the name of Ashton Grey. 
                  We would by no means aver, however, that it was unfelt by the young susceptible heart. Alack for those who are thrown within the bewildering spell of youthful beauty!-but it is not our cue to moralize. That of our hero was perhaps the more impressive from its fine keeping with his backwoods character. The crisped and glossy curls, flung so carelessly back from his brow, owed all "their propriety" to inveterate tendency; the smooth white brow was contrasted strongly by the dark hue of a cheek that had been touched not lightly by embrowning suns. Yet an artist, sketching an Apollo, might have been well satisfied with such a model; and Annabel, the dreamy, the impressible, the 
                     desolate Annabel-was it possible she should drink in the language of the eyes so tenderly, so passionately lifted to hers-of the smile so rich, so dazzling, so lighting up the whole face like a positive glory, and not at last lose the very sense of her own being in his? 
                  Ere Ashton Grey could no longer avail himself of the immunities derived from his disabled arm,-when he was again called out to the life of action and emprise to which he was accustomed,-he had become to the young trembling heart the sole rest on which it now leaned; while to him, the strong, the impassioned, the full of soul, she was at once an object of such protective tenderness as the outstretched hands of infancy inspire, and the adoration of a nature whose deep inborn sense of the pure and the beautiful has found its first, yet full realization. 
                  Annabel Hampden was yet scarcely sixteen. She had been educated in retirement by a widowed father, who had no other object upon which to lavish the wealth of garnered-up affections; and although adversity had finally compelled him to seek a home amid western wilds, she had been still carefully shielded from its pressure. Her form and face were like her character, calculated to awaken an immediate sentiment of protective tenderness-the former slight and fragile, the latter resembling the lily in its exceeding purity. The complexion was of marble delicacy, relieved only by the dark pencilling of her arched brow, and the still darker braids of luxuriant hair that were parted over it. Emotion not unfrequently imparted to her colorless cheek a slight rose-tint; but when in repose, she resembled some waxen impersonation of purity or innocence. It was only in motion-and the bend of the willow was not more graceful-or when, in the excitement of feeling, she lifted her eye of the softest hazel to yours, that you fully realized she was a thing of life. In character, she was strikingly like the forest fawn, which our hunters tell us, while it starts wildly away from human footsteps, yet attaches itself at once to him who succeeds in arresting its flight. What wonder that, between these young hearts, their communion had grown into sudden sacredness? Pity it is that the tame realities of life should cast their dust and shadow upon the brightness of an existence thus hallowed! should call the soul from the sweet fountains of feeling, to the trodden ways of baseness-to the labors of need; binding it down with its throbbing pulses to the cold calculations of profit, and fettering it with a weight that, in its strugglings against it, becomes a sickening weariness. 
                  That species of wild and hardy adventure belonging to the commerce of our infant west, had originated its own appropriate Order. To those familiar with our current literature a few years since, "The Last of the Boatmen," a sketch touched by the hand of genius, afforded a most life-like representative of the class. Yet little as the habits and feelings of Ashton Grey could assimilate with those of men, whose general recklessness of moral obligation was only relieved by the scrupulous honor with which they fulfilled their trust, circumstances had made him, not unfrequently, a sharer in the kind prise that formed their distinctive character. His early attitudes had familiarized him with uncertain and self-reliant adventure, fitting him for all difficult enterprise; and the constitutional ardor to which position permitted no other channel, found something of allurement in the trade that had been already introduced upon our then gloomy and even dangerous waters. Young as he was, he was still known, not only as the most efficient of agents, but among the most skilful of western boatmen; and the trader, whose whole fortune was often invested in the richly-laden keel committed to a perilous navigation, was glad to secure his service at the most unstinted of terms. His engagement in an undertaking of this kind had been, much to the chagrin of his employers, delayed by the accident of his injuries; and that delay, however to him "it had sped on golden wings," might be drawn out no longer. 
                  And did he leave the fair girl, who sat, as he spoke to her of these cold business arrangements, as pale and silent as if hope had just parted from her heart,-did he leave her without avowing the hopes, the passion, the purposes of his own? Such course did not belong to the character of Ashton Grey-all was avowed, and with a manly tenderness, a truthful eloquence, that inspired confidence fidence, and won the vestal heart to unveil its own timid depths. They must part for a season, but beyond it, bright and green paths were opening away into the far future. When the farewell was at last spoken, and the lover had turned back once more to the life of vigorous action and strong endeavor that was again before him, the fairest and gentlest of human beings was "his own betrothed bride." 
                
                
                  II. 
                   
                      
                        
                            
                              And why should I the past recall, 
                              To wither blooms of present bliss? 
                              Thou'rt now my own-I clasp thee all- 
                              And Heaven can grant no more than this. 
                           
                         
                        MOORE. 
                      
                   
                  AND with the remembrance of this their pledged faith, Annabel's desolate heart grew tranquillized; and whether alone or surrounded by intrusive voices, she sat day after day with the image of her lover pressed as it were to her soul, and shutting out every other. But from these soft dreams she was at last aroused. Her hostess came to bring her tidings that, upon her first arrival, had been the subject of her almost hourly inquiry, and to which she had looked forward with absorbing interest. 
                  "Colonel Ainsworth has arrived, Miss Hampden." 
                  "Colonel Ainsworth! oh, yes-has he?" and a gleam of troubled feeling went over her face, instead of the expression of pleasure her informant had so reasonably anticipated. 
                  "Shall I send to let him know you wish to see him?" 
                  "If you please-yet no," said the young girl, striving to fling off the startled feelings that, she knew not why, had come over her. "Colonel Ainsworth knows nothing of me, but my father left a letter that I promised to deliver in person. Will you please direct some one to attend me to his house?" 
                  Annabel sat down to try to collect her strangely scattered thoughts. Colonel Ainsworth-a native of the Old Dominion, and many years since one of the adventurous and noble spirits that, in seeking to win them homes from Kentucky forests, were involved in a long conflict with the most terrible of foes,-was her father's friend in the season of youthful ardor. Years of subsequent separation had failed to weaken the bond of reciprocal regard, and Mr. Hampden's purpose of migrating to our infant city was not a little strengthened by the knowledge that his early friend had become one of its denizens. Business had called Colonel Ainsworth to the east, a short time previous to the arrival of Mr. Hampden, and his family had accompanied him. The dying father, whom a fatal disease had met at the anticipated haven from a toilsome voyage, had little other solicitude but for his gentle child; and a brief letter, consigning her to his friend's future care, and left her with a charge to deliver it in person at his return, soothed his parting moments. But the sudden light which her meeting with Ashton Grey had flung upon the sorrowful path of the bereaved girl, had banished, till now, the very remembrance of hopes and expectations so much colder and dimmer. Now the recollection came with something to which her guileless heart was wholly unused-a something of its own rebuke. The image of a beloved and lamented parent, the many soft memories of years of indulgent fondness, again swept mournfully over it, and it grew faint and chill as the warm visions so recently cherished faded before them. 
                  Pale and drooping as "the bent lily overcharged with dew," she stood, a half hour after, before her appointed guardian; and placing in his hands the deed of her father's dying trust, awaited its perusal in silent and trembling emotion. Colonel Ainsworth was a man in whom a dash of aristocratic hauteur, fostered by that species of isolation which high tone of character, united to superior wealth, draws around one amid the common walks of life, was redeemed from all ungraciousness by rich feelings and benevolent principles. It needed not the exceeding beauty of the delicate and sinking being who awaited his reception, to create an immediate interest in the orphan daughter of his friend. Yet as he at last kissed her pallid cheek, and, bidding her a fervid welcome to his home and heart, presented her to Mrs. Ainsworth as a sacred bequest by one whom he had held in fond and early regard, he felt, with a glow of most animated pleasure, that Annabel Hampden might be loved for herself alone. 
                  And Annabel was taken joyfully, and at once, into the closest folds of a paternal care. The sudden interest with which circumstances had invested her, was soon and for ever confirmed by the enduring charm that a spirit of perfect innocence, and a mind deeply as well as delicately toned, diffused through her every word, look, and movement. 
                  Mrs. Ainsworth was a lovely woman, around whom the impalpable lingerings of some early sorrow, melted by time into indistinctness, but not to be effaced, hung like the perpetual shadow of the cypress upon the rose of the cemetery, and giving a deepened interest to a character that seemed to have been made up of the kindest elements. To her the young and seemingly desolate orphan soon became inexpressibly dear; and had Annabel's heart in reality acknowledged no other ties than those that death had severed, the new sense of affectionate adoption would have soothed her by degrees to perfect happiness. 
                  But the fever of an unacknowledged passion was preying upon her young spirit, and the pure instincts of her nature recoiled from its concealment. Yet for one like Annabel Hampden, so timid, so resembling the plant that shrinks from the slightest touch,-to throw open unencouraged, unsolicited, the veiled sanctuary of her young affections,-it was an effort to which her strength was all unequal. In vain she strove to utter the name so engraven on her heart; it died away as it reached her crimsoned lips, and she would flee to her chamber to hide the overpowering emotion. 
                  But the time her lover had named, when he should again be with her, was speedily at hand, for the southern voyage had not been yet undertaken; preparatory to that, Ashton Grey had gone to bring a boat from some of the upper waters. Becoming with every hour more and more anxious and disturbed, Annabel had stolen one day from the house alone, scarcely conscious where her feet tended, and stood at last on the margin of the Ohio, whose swollen and turbid wave, now lashed by a strong gale, was little illustrative of its early name of La Belle Rivire. But it was the stream that her lover was descending, and Annabel stood gazing upon it with a crowd of half uneasy, half delicious fancies. 
                  "A rough morning for so delicate a rambler," exclaimed a familiar voice. "Have a care, my dear girl," continued Colonel Ainsworth, who was now at her side; "the breeze that hardly lifts the gossamer might all but bear you off; much more the winds that have lashed the bosom of our usually quiet river into so rough a mood. A little occasional seasoning after all," he added, drawing her shawl more closely around her, "may not be amiss for so tender a plant; and by remaining a few minutes, you may chance to see on its way one of our western broad-horns." 
                  He drew her arm affectionately through his, and they remained together gazing upon the bleak distance and the agitated waves that were now dashing against the shore with almost terrific violence. But though Annabel's eye was thus directed, her ear was intently turned to a group of some three or four persons, who had just approached the bank, and now remained stationary, scarcely three paces from her. They were earnestly engaged in a species of conversation peculiar to the class of men who, with half-civilized habits, were now found floating on the wide current of the better order of population. To the untrained ear of our fair emigrant it would have seemed somewhat strangely colored; but the name of Ashton Grey, familiarly repeated, chained all her faculties. Their rudeness of aspect was in full accordance with their language; and but for that magnetic name, the glance she at first turned towards them would have been at once and wholly averted. But her interest was becoming too intense for the recollection of aught else. There was one of the group whose appearance, or rather countenance, was singularly distinct from that of his companions. The harsh mould of his deeply-bronzed visage, and the strong proportions of his muscular and heavy-set frame, together with the strange garb in which it was arrayed, and the wild slang that marked his low muttered remarks, were in different degrees shared by all. But in place of that cast of open and ready defiance peculiar to the frontier adventurer, whose character was formed by habitual encounter with dangers and difficulties, in which physical prowess was the most exigible of all virtues, the countenance of this man bore a dark, and set, and sinister expression-an expression that seemed to speak, not of the mere adventitious ferocity, acquired in the rough play of hardy adventure, but of evil habitudes-of a familiarity with ferocious thought and gloomy passions. 
                  "You seem to have liked Pottawatamie life so well," said one of the group, addressing the remark to this man particularly, "I wonder you didn't stay with 'em altogether. You left them, it seems, while Ashton Grey was a mere cub yet." 
                  "May-be," said another of the party, passing his hand round his own unkempt head somewhat significantly, "may-be they'd take a fancy to your hair in order to square up some old dealings. The red skins have a pertikeler sleight o' hand that way in straitening accounts. Men living with the Indians, I've heern say, were apt to forget their arithmetic, and more than one trader has closed up old balances at last with his scalp." 
                  "The Indians are not slow at such handicraft," replied the person addressed, grimly; "but as to the cause of my leaving 'em, that is my business. The red skins have a fashion of not meddling with more than they need." 
                  "I'low you'd good reason enough," said a third one, evidently desirous of leading the way on to smoother ground; "the young one, I've heern yourself say, never tuk to an Indian wigwam; and I should not s'pose you'd a'liked to have jest naturalized him among them, any how." 
                  "Better shots might have hit wider of the truth," responded the other; "if the boy would a' staid willingly, I'd a' been content with 'em all my life. But natur is natur, and one must larn what cursed villians there are among white men, before he can make up his mind to be satisfied with Indian life. And it ain't no use, no how, to try to force natur. I was jest minding that tree, growing out of the side of the bank there, below us, and thinking how it could a' growed up straight, that way. But it 
                     has growed up, and up, with nothing on airth to help it; and so one'll see it sometimes with a human." 
                  "It's a fair shake, any way, to bring such a tree up along side of Ashton Grey," responded the other, "for they've both got up as straight as them as had broad ground to start from. One of the old prisoners told me once that Ashton larned to read and write among the Pottawatimies, but that I'low was running the tin over. Pottawatimie schools, I take it, is raither scarce." 
                  "'Tis truer than you may think, man," was the reply, the speaker's look of inaccessible induration having taken, in the course of these remarks, a perceptibly softened expression; "the boy did larn himself to read somehow. Once in a while a prisoner got among us that had a bit of larning, and he got one of these to mark the shape of the letters for him, and then he cut 'em out of bark and worked with 'em till he knew 'em. And now and then he got hold of a book, or some leaf of a book, that some one would leave in the towns; and so he got on. A French missionary was sent to convart the tribe. They posted him off, not long after, to his own upper hunting grounds; but he took a liking to Ashton, and larned him to write upon a birch-bark copybook. All the more trouble I had with him, for these things made him all the more restless to get with those of his own feather. Not a party of land-jobbers but would draw him off, sometimes as guide, sometimes as runner or chain-bearer, or something of that sort; and I thought at last I might as well come in with him to the settlements for good. I did not like to contrary him much, no how; for, boy as he was, he had stood by me in some darkish frays." 
                  "I heern something of that, too, from the old prisoner I spoke of. He said they were a leetle inclined, now and then, to suspicion you of selling 'em bad powder and the like, and the boy got you off more than once by pushing himself between you and their tomahawks. You might well keep on his track if he was bound to leave them." 
                  "Well, I could not bring myself, you see, to do without him. When I tried it for a while, I got as hungry for him as a famished ished wolf. To be sure, I don't see him often now,-Ashton always strikes out his own track,-but when I do get a glimpse of him, he has always a kind word for me; and if it was not for him, there's not a soul on airth to mind whether I was dead or alive." 
                  There was a touch of feeling in the harsh speaker's tones that was not to be mistaken. "It is time now," he said, after some moments' silence, "that Ashton should get down with his boat. Hard rowing he's got," he added, looking earnestly at the river, "if he's bringing her on to-day. Why, the waves heave like a dying buffalo,-there's a boat now, if my eyes don't deceive me!" 
                  Colonel Ainsworth at the same moment was pointing it out to the impassive Annabel. 
                  "And that is Ashton Grey at the oar; no one else could manage it alone as he does. He would doubtless bring her safe to shore, but a little help will make it surer in a swell like this." 
                  He quietly unmoored a canoe, and stepping into it, was soon alongside of the young oarsman. The boat, with the strength of a new arm, came speedily to shore; and while the silent girl's cheek was yet colored with the rush of startled and painful, though indefinite feeling, to which the name of her lover, so revoltingly associated, had given rise, Ashton Grey sprung lightly from its bow, and dashing the perspiration from his fine brow, and shaking off somewhat impatiently the greetings of our own last acquaintances, as they advanced to meet him, stood before her with a countenance for one moment absolutely flashing with pleasure. 
                  "Miss Hampden!"-the tone was full of passion,-"is it possible-" But the words he would have uttered faltered on his lips. He had an immediate sense that the position of his betrothed had undergone something of change. Yet the look with which he met that of Colonel Ainsworth, as that gentleman returned his bow with a glance of the coldest recognition, lost nothing of its singularly open and manly character;-it was but the hesitation of delicacy that silenced the impassioned accents. 
                  "Shall we return, Miss Hampden?" asked the Colonel, drawing her away with a movement not exceedingly deliberate, as he spoke; "or would you wish to walk further?" Pale and trembling in every nerve, Annabel bowed slightly to her lover, and obeyed the impulse of her guardian in silence. 
                  "That young man seems to be known to you, Miss Hampden," said Colonel Ainsworth; "may I ask where or when the acquaintance was formed?" 
                  Annabel rallied herself. Her truthfulness of character came to her assistance. Simply and at once she detailed the circumstances under which they had met, and been subsequently consorted under the same roof. Colonel Ainsworth looked more than grave. But that the look and bearing of the youthful figure from which he had just turned were still before him, he might have thought little, perhaps, of any danger in all this to his gentle ward; but the handsome and glowing face-the air of high spirit-the tones of thrilling power,-all were in his thought as he listened. He was deeply pained. 
                  "And was there no one," he at length inquired, in an accent of mingled chagrin and tenderness, "to tell you that this young man was an improper aspirant to the notice of Annabel Hampden?" 
                  "Improper!" she repeated, almost inaudibly, but the suppressed voice did not disguise its unconscious emphasis. 
                  "Yes, my dear child, improper-unquestionably so; and not the less that there is something in his person and manner so at variance with his class." 
                  "His class!" 
                  "Yes, Annabel-his class; for it is a fact that Ashton Grey,-though, to do him justice, I ought perhaps to say, I believe he keeps himself mostly apart from it,-is of that class which, to say the least, is a very uncertain and rude order of society. Have you been told nothing of his parentage? Do you know nothing of the elder Grey?" 
                   
                  "Till now I never heard such a person mentioned." 
                  "Well, my dear, you have just seen him. That man with the grizzled hair is Ashton Grey's father. You might have learned as much had you been listening to the conversation he was carrying on so grimly with his companions, when his son made his appearance,-an Indian trader for many years, and engaged now only in those precarious occupations congenial to his former habits of pursuit. Such is Ashton Grey's origin; and though he may be, I believe in truth he is, quite free from the vices and habits of his caste, yet I need not add that a delicate young girl, moving in the sphere that Annabel Hampden can alone fill, cannot with propriety acknowledge hardly a personal recognition of one so hedged in with vile and low associations. Nor need I say, my dear," he added, after a moment's hesitancy, "that, informed as you now are, I shall expect you at once and for ever to renounce an acquaintance so unfitting." 
                  Happily for Annabel, no reply was requisite-they were entering the house. The Colonel looked a little anxiously at the fair face, as his gentle wife, with affectionate solicitude, though with tender chidings, took off her shawl and bonnet; but it was too calm and still for his scrutiny. Men cannot often read emotion, that from its very weight settles down into the deep heart. The smile with which she met the maternal attention was as soft as ever. He did not mark the deep, deep sadness it played over, nor the troubled light of the eye whose heavy lashes, he was thinking at the moment, drooped so beautifully over it. 
                  But Annabel had letters to write, and retired to her room. Letters to write! A vague purpose of writing to her lover had indeed furnished her with the pretext, but long hours wore away ere Annabel assumed the pen. How to her anguished thought had all of life faded out within the last half hour! How was the spell which Love had thrown over her young imagination,-how suddenly and rudely had it been broken! The bright visions of happiness-the charm, the freshness, the beauty, with which it had invested existence, was stricken from it for ever. The future, so lately a dream of brightness, lay before her a cold, lengthened waste-dim, darkened, colorless. She was to renounce him whose companionship struck out from the dullest hour a glow and warmth the whole world else might not bestow. The founts of rich feeling he had awakened were to be again sealed, and vows, holy and unforfeited vows, to be blotted out. And had Annabel made up her mind already to do all this? 
                  We may not pretend to individualize the surging thoughts that, in the first hour of conflict, swept over her heart. The young maiden was not altogether a thing of tender impulses. Duties within the grasp of her innocent mind had no light power over it, and that which she owed her guardian, as the representative of her beloved father, was distinctly before her. True, it sometimes dwindled to a mere spectre, as the vow she was bidden to break rose also,; but like other spectres, it still beckoned in its retreat, and its indicating finger was not to be silenced. She prepared to obey it. She revolved and re-revolved the manner in which the sacrifice should be fulfilled. Her purity of nature would have suggested entire openness with Colonel Ainsworth; but even to her inexperienced thought, it could not be matter of doubt that it would call out, towards her lover, a high displeasure, not unlikely to lead to indignant reproaches and humiliating contumely, that she trembled to think of. No! only from herself should he learn her faithlessness; only in her own words be told the revocation of her plighted faith! 
                  Nor could she again meet him. Poor Annabel! she knew her own weakness. She hid her face as she thought of his passionate remonstrances, his seductive tenderness. Her own heart was sick with the agony of crushed hopes and bleeding affections. To write, and at once, was the only course before her; it was the kindest way in which this most cruel renunciation was to be made. With a faintness, almost as of death, upon her whole frame, she took up her pen. She did write! That her letter was a little incoherent-that it had some tell-tale blots-that it breathed throughout a tenderness of which the writer was unconscious,-for she meant it to be very calm, and cold, and decided,-we have not a doubt; but, n'importe-the letter was not fated to give hindrance or advancement to the progress of events. The fates, as they were quietly weaving the web of our lovers' history, might have had a sly laugh to themselves at the interference that was being attempted by other hands. 
                  Annabel Hampden, when her letter was finished, went out once more alone-now with a conscious and hurried step. She went forth to commit it to the conveyance of the poor widow, whose gratitude to the young preserver of her children had formed a ready link between her and his affianced. Her cabin had been rebuilt by kind and efficient hands-need we say at the instance of Ashton Grey? From the windows of her chamber the beaming eye of Annabel had followed his lithe and agile figure, as, with his right arm still in a sling, he managed to render not unfrequent aid, apart from the rich tones and the whispered bonus with which he cheered on the work. As she paused upon the humble threshold, in the effort to overcome the crowding regrets and bitter self-reproach that filled her heart at the moment, a well-known step was beside her-and Ashton Grey withdrew the hand she had pressed upon her aching brow. Why was it so passive-so cold! He was pouring out the full floodtide of his earnest soul, with an ardor that the presence of the simple and to him devoted matron, who opened the door at the sound of his voice, did not at all restrain. But Annabel is only silent-shrinking-pale. He has led her into the rustic dwelling. Trembling from head to foot, she has sunk on a seat. The letter is crushed in her hand; but she has lifted her eye to his in solemn purpose, and a few words have told him the parental claims of her guardian, and that their betrothal was now a matter of nought. It was no idle trial of a half-formed renunciation. She believed the sentence irrevocable. She thought she had become firm. Alas for such illusions! The lover was now before her, his entreating eyes beaming down on her face-his deep tones of sorrowful and eloquent passion poured on her ear; and all with which she had striven to nerve her heart-the suggestions of prudence, the scruples imposed by circumstance,-all were fading from her sense. Duty! She still grasped it to her heart, but it had taken a new form. It was no longer a pale, stern presence; but it whispered only of the vow that nought could cancel but the unworthiness of her lover. And had aught she had heard cast on him such a shadow? The acknowledgment of her prejudiced guardian, the allusions to his boyhood's history, to which she had so breathlessly listened, had but flung a new brightness over his young name. 
                  "Dear Miss," said the humble matron, as the young man paced her floor, "if ye promised him, God heard the promise, sure," and the simple advocacy told. The faint rose-tint came back to Annabel's cheek; her heart filled once more with happiness; she was again her lover's, his only. What was the world to her now! 
                  At an earlier stage of their intercourse, the true manliness of Ashton Grey's character would have withheld him from seeking to lure her from the guardianship that was now hers. But now, the maiden loved him; and love!-had it not been to him a light that paled every other? The hindrances of position were to him but a sound. Strong in himself, the young backwoodsman felt able to trample them all under his feet, and to bear up his beloved above all the ills of life. 
                  But something of the real was already pressing upon him. The moments to be permitted him were fast lapsing. A long separation, at best, was at hand. A few days, and he was bound to that mart, which, though long since considered but as a neighboring emporium, at that time presented a distance as imposing as the voyage was wild and perilous; and the lover's heart grew faint as the thought of this separation bore upon its high pulses. How could he tear himself away from her, and leave her, so gentle, so young, so dependent still, hourly subject to the strong influences that had already so nearly estranged her from him? One manner of vow only could tranquillize his fears; but could he wish the public consummation that would at once deprive her of the fostering guardianship, for which he could give her no answering protection? A private marriage would alone secure her his; and leave him with the assurance of a watchful kindness still over her,-without which, the thought of his voyage was madness,-till his return. Then he might himself assert those claims that no human authority could countervail. What wonder that to our young backwoodsman these reasons were strong as his own sweeping streams? or that during those brief, agitated, hurrying moments, they prevailed? Another promise had been given, when Annabel's trembling form at last escaped from her lover. A yet more sacred vow was to seal that she had so lately essayed to revoke. 
                  Within a week after, upon a morning when the earth seemed, from a sudden caprice, to have put off all ungenial influences, and arrayed herself, as for a gala, in all the glittering sheen of frost and sunlight, Annabel, to whom, despite her more than usually pale cheek, the exhilarating tone of the sparkling atmosphere afforded pretext for the early stroll, bent her steps towards one of those mysterious mounds, that yet afford so peculiar a feature of romance to our western river landscapes. She had more than once stood beside it with Ashton Grey, wondering at its origin; and now she knows her lover is there, awaiting her. Once more they meet-he has supported her steps to the humble dwelling where they last met; and there, under that cabin roof, and with no other attesting witness but its faithful occupant, her fate was irrevocably united to his, whatever it might be. 
                
                
                  III. 
                   
                     
                         
                           Though the world should all witness against thee, my heart 
                           To itself is a witness they cannot outweigh; 
                           I am now all thine own-and I know my own part, 
                           In life or in death, by thy side 'tis to stay. 
                        
                      
                   
                  STRONG indeed was the sentiment that carried our shrinking heroine through the precipitous step we have detailed; but while her purpose was sustained by its ascendancy, her delicate nature almost sank beneath the effort. Her finely toned mind had an instinctive revolt to aught that was clandestine, and she had not courage to lift her eyes to those now beaming upon her with hourly increasing kindness. Colonel Ainsworth's house overlooked the river, that was hurrying on, again dark and turbid, to the yet gloomier stream to which it was tribute; and, cold and pale as "monumental marble," she stood, on the morning of the following day, at her window, gazing fixedly at a laden boat that was being just loosened from its moorings. About it the flitting form of Ashton Grey might be seen, moving with the quick step and hurried air of one preparing to leave the shore. Annabel scarcely breathed; she pressed her hands upon her pallid brow, and directed her thoughts to Him who could alone calm the tempest of feeling, or shield the young voyager from the dangers of his way. When she again lifted her eye, her husband was standing in the bow of the boat; but he was at that moment closely surrounded by a group of men, in whose manner there seemed something of strange and hurried import. They turned to leave, after what seemed a brief parley, but it was with Ashton Grey in their midst. Thus they ascended the bank, and walked slowly on, till, in the turnings of their way, they were at last hidden from Annabel's strained view. What could it mean! Surprised, startled, anxious, she still remained motionless, momently expecting her husband's return to the boat; but minute after minute lapsed silently away, and he came not. The boat had been again moored, and there were two or three persons that came and busied themselves about it, but they were unknown to her. There was something like commotion among the citizens. Men were hurrying through the streets as by some common impulse, and craftsmen and laborers, dropping their respective implements, were hurrying with loungers and idlers to some common point of interest. Gradually the stir subsided, and all again was still, save in the heart of the young bride to whom this strange suspense had now become agony. 
                  It was surely no little thing that thus detained him whose purpose it had been to depart with the early morning. The day-the weary, the endless day, wore on, and still that boat swung idly from its moorings, and the wind came with a mournful tone from the deserted and solitary river. Her half-frenzied eye grew dim with watching, as she still sat at her window, counting the long moments with feverish anguish. Again and again had Mrs. Ainsworth entered the apartment, and striven to draw her from it, but she plead illness, and begged entire quiet with so beseeching a tone, it repressed even the expression of the anxiety her manner awakened. Twilight at last gathered over the spot where her gaze had been so long and vainly fixed, and Annabel sunk on her bed in utter exhaustion. Still her ear remained quick to every sound. Not a leaf rustled, that her pulse did not seem to pause; and now she at last hears, what had been her own name, repeated below in a tone that was little calculated to silence apprehension. It was the voice of the poor woman that had witnessed her bridal. 
                  "May I speak with Miss Hampden, that was, ma'am?" The inquiry chanced to be addressed only to a servant, and the speaker was at once ushered into Annabel's chamber. The excited listener started wildly to her feet. 
                  "My God! Mrs. Wilson! You have come to tell me-" 
                  "Why, pray, now, dear Miss-that is to say, ma'am, you're so overcome. What is it ye've heard about it?" 
                  "About what? Merciful heavens! what is there to hear?" 
                  "Why, ma'am, if ye was not so flurried-" 
                  "Well, well, I am not-I am calm, you see-perfectly calm;" and Annabel seated herself with a stifling and haggard composure. 
                  "Why, after all, it mayn't be as bad as one thinks. Murder somehow will get back to them as has done it." 
                  "Murder! For God's sake, Mrs. Wilson, say, what has happened? Speak, or I shall go mad." 
                  The kind woman made a great effort to get through the terrible detail,-we give it to the reader as briefly as possible. It appeared that for some days past a small trading craft had lain at the river; that on the morning of the present day it was found to be gone; and the owner having mostly disposed of his wares, it was thought he had left in the night. An hour or two after, however, his body had been found floating below, and with a deep gash in the breast that but too clearly revealed a work of violence. Some singular circumstances, that Mrs. Wilson said she "disremembered the particulars of, though of course it would be all cleared up," had, despite a general belief of his innocence, fastened suspicion upon Ashton Grey. His father, too, was implicated; "though I heard 'em say," said the narrator, "it was more from something sort o' unsartain in his character than any thing in the evidence. But I'm loth and sorry to say they are both now in jail." 
                  Annabel listened as if she heard not. Mrs. Wilson was alarmed at her stony aspect. 
                  "Dear me! how pale you are, Miss! and cold-cold as death! Dear, dear! I must call her friends; she is dying, sure." 
                  The stricken Annabel roused. "No! no!" she exclaimed convulsively, "I am better-better," she repeated, struggling for calmness as for life; "and proceed! I am able, quite able to hear all." 
                  "I've told all, dear Miss, except the message Mr. Ashton sent you." 
                  "The message! Gracious heaven! have you yourself seen him?" 
                  "Seen him! How can you ask, ma'am? Wan't my three children playing round me, and should it need any one to tell me he was innocent? But if I'd knowed him the very murderer, 'twas my place to go to him, and see if I could do any thing for him in his need." 
                  "God bless you for ever! But the message-the message!" said the young wife, still gasping for breath. 
                  "Why, he said, Miss, or-or my dear young lady-I can't mind somehow how to call you, but I'll try and tell you his very words, for that's what he over and agin charged me. He said he was clear of what they laid on him; he'd never harmed a human being in a way that men take hold of; but he had done a great sin for all, and it was to you whom he loved better than life. He'd no right, he said, to almost force you into such an out o' the way marriage,-I can't get his exact words,-but any way, he give you up; the law would nullify the marriage, for it wan't a fair one, that God could bless; and that-well, that's the amount of it; 'tis his own wish to set you free, sure. He said it was all that could clear his own soul, and then, come what would, he'd be content." 
                  A ghastly smile touched the features of Annabel. Does he rate my love then so low? Does he think that for such a love I became his wife? 
                  "Mrs. Wilson, you know not what feelings I trod on in uttering that final promise. But there is no separate path for us now; and now, yes, now Heaven be praised! that that vow has been spoken. It is much that no power can separate us-for death even will but unite us for ever." 
                  Annabel's face and manner grew calm as she spoke. She was girt up at once by strong purpose, and the sustaining power of that passion which is known so often to oversweep all else of human feeling. 
                  "Come with me, Mrs. Wilson. I have something to say to those who have been my guardians, and then I will go back with you to my husband's prison." 
                  "Alas, poor dear! you cannot now see him. I didn't leave him till they were about to shut him up for the night." 
                  "True! Go, then, and come for me in the morning-the first moment the doors will be opened to us." 
                  Annabel lay as if asleep when Mrs. Ainsworth again entered her apartment. She could but feel, as she took the icy hand softly in hers, that something more than usual had given it so deadly a coldness. The fair, though calm face, had a grieved look, resembling that we see sometimes in the fixed expression of a dead infant's; and Mrs. Ainsworth, after looking at her long and tenderly, only persuaded herself at last to leave her, by the resolve that on the following day she would at least probe the young heart. She sat down sorrowfully by her husband, who had come in not wholly unexcited by the events of the day, to speak of her fears. The Colonel was silent, but his look grew moody. The incident of the river, which he had forborne to mention even to his wife, rose to his thought. 
                  "Has Annabel heard of the murder?" 
                  Mrs. Ainsworth was unable to say. "Servants were almost always gossips, and the woman whose house had been so recently burned (as she knew from having since employed her), had asked to see Miss Hampden, and had been, some hours since, with her." 
                  Colonel Ainsworth's frown deepened; but he had determined to keep his ward's secret, if indeed her interest in the prisoner were what he began to fear. 
                  "She has doubtless heard it, and is shocked, of course. It's a terrible affair," said the Colonel, shrugging his shoulders; "you have never seen Ashton Grey, Marion-Annabel, I believe, has; but you would deem him one of the very last to commit such a deed." 
                  Colonel Ainsworth's dreams were any thing but refreshing. "Have you seen Annabel this morning?" he inquired, as he entered the breakfast room. But Annabel herself entered it as he spoke. 
                  "Are you better, my dear girl?" said Mrs. Ainsworth, her whole countenance lighting up with maternal pleasure at her entrance; but surprise and concern clouded it ere the question was wholly uttered. Perfectly calm was the face of the young ward, but it was the same calm it had worn as her anxious friend looked on it, while she seemed to lie in slumber-too still, too mournfully quiet, for ordinary feeling; yet her usually timid eye was lifted full to those that were turned with questioning kindness upon her, and her voice, mild and sorrowful, was yet distinct. 
                  "Yes, I am better," she replied, "for I have no longer to act a part. I could no longer deceive you if I would. Kindest, best of friends, I come but to ask your forgiveness; and oh! if you will yet bestow it, your parting blessing!" 
                  "In the name of Heaven, what do you mean? These are strange words," said Colonel Ainsworth. 
                  "That I have but usurped a tenderness I have voluntarily forfeited. I am the wife of Ashton Grey, and as such may no longer claim the guardian kindness that would have shielded me from this hour of trial." 
                  "My God! Annabel! his wife! Ashton Grey's wife! I cannot have heard you aright." 
                  The sad and collected look that met his gaze was sufficient answer. 
                  "Dreadful! most dreadful!' said the guardian, turning from his ward and pacing the floor with long strides. "This is more than I could have feared. Marion, she is not worthy your tears." 
                  "Alas! it seems too true," said the fair culprit, whose ashen lip for the first time trembled with emotion; yet, oh!" she added, now clasping her hands in strong entreaty, "will you in this hour of great agony withhold your forgiveness? Will you not believe that I am not wholly the ungrateful dissembler I have seemed? Heaven is my witness, that I meant to deserve your trust-that I strove to meet what your guardian care required of me. But my faith was already plighted-plighted before I had a home or a counsellor, and I came to think my vow was binding. Oh, say!" she continued, sinking at the feet of Mrs. Ainsworth, who still wept in silence, "you, in whom all the tenderness of my dead mother has been revived, will you not at least forgive me? Tell me ere I go-oh! tell me that you do forgive-that you will pray for me in my great sorrow." 
                  "I do forgive, fully-freely. My poor girl!" said Mrs. Ainsworth, folding her to her heart; "my husband too will-I am sure he will-only his distress must get a little abated-and, Annabel, our home is still yours." 
                  "Alas!" said the young wife, rising, "my home is my husband's prison. I go thither from all your kindness, but it will soothe me in my darkest hour." 
                  Colonel Ainsworth seated himself, and drew her towards him. "You have both our forgiveness, Annabel; but tell me all that relates to this ill-starred marriage." 
                  The frown on his brow grew somewhat lessened as she replied in detail to his questions. "Courage, my dear girl! Bad as this business is, it is not past retrieving. Forget this foolish ceremony, and we will soon, I trust, have it remedied." 
                  Annabel withdrew herself from the arm that had been thrown kindly around her, and looked her guardian mildly but beseechingly in the face. 
                  "If you would speak, sir, of annulling my marriage-oh! in mercy spare me! I am not able to bear it. Why should I be thus bitterly tried! You do not know me, sir-no one knows me! Even my husband, though I forgive him in his hour of anguish, has spoken to me in a cruel message of separation-of separation! as the means of shielding me from sorrow." 
                  "In this, Annabel, he has acted well. What other means, poor child, is left you?" 
                  "What other! would that spare me? spare me from his sorrows? Oh, sir! I cast off the blessed trust of your protection and kindness for the love I bore him; and what has life dearer, to tempt me now to a thought of abandoning him?" 
                  "Miserable infatuation!" said Colonel Ainsworth, and again he paced the floor in extreme agitation. Mrs. Wilson came for Annabel. 
                  "She must not go out as yet," said her guardian, taking his hat. "Take her, dear Marion, to your own room, and get her if possible to swallow some breakfast. I am going out. I will see young Grey myself, and we'll then settle what is to be done." 
                  The gloom on his countenance was little dissipated at his return, yet he came fortified with new arguments. The prisoner did not wish to see his bride! He had penciled a few lines to her, repeating in his own strong words the wish already conveyed to her. He begged her forgiveness for seeking to link her pure life with his strange and unnatural one; he conjured her to save him from a remorse that was bitterer than death, by suffering the marriage to be cancelled. What was it but a dream? and so only should she think of it-a dark, troubled dream!-Idle words were they all to Annabel. A poor reward it would be, for a love so self-sacrificing, now to abandon him. 
                   
                  "And do not pity me!" she said, as her friends looked more and more sorrowfully upon her young face, "do not think me mad. Whatever of degradation or sorrow may be before me, even to shame's last bitterness, I would rather share it with him, if such be his lot, than the fairest of earthly destiny apart from him." 
                  Colonel Ainsworth had little more to say. There was something in this unyielding strength of sentiment in the child-like bride, that silenced remonstrance. He looked at her, as she stood before him in her pale and almost spiritual beauty, with a crowd of mingled emotions; but pity and kindness prevailed over all. All thought of severing the unhappy tie was laid aside, and Colonel Ainsworth himself accompanied her to her husband's prison. We pass over the meeting of the unfortunate pair-there are scenes that bear no touch of earthly coloring. 
                  The privilege of sharing the prisoner's dungeon was of course denied, but from that time Annabel was permitted to visit him daily. The house of Colonel Ainsworth was still her home, and a tenderness, deepening with every day into a yet more trembling anxiety for its drooping object, was yet over her. 
                  Colonel Ainsworth himself, for the sake of his ward, visited the younger prisoner more than once in the hope of eliciting something that might tell in his favor. But while with every interview some new shade of interest was developed in the young man's character, it effected little change in the conviction of his guilt. As we have already said, the circumstances that attached suspicion to the elder Grey would have passed unnoticed, but for the general odium of his character; but the testimony implicating the son, and to which Colonel Ainsworth had been a listener, was of the strongest nature. He had hoped that some explanation from the prisoner would weaken its force, but Ashton Grey, though known as of the frankest nature, seemed little inclined now to be communicative. Collected, though melancholy in the extreme,-and when the point was pressed upon him invariably asserting his innocenee,-he yet declined entering with any one upon the facts upon which he had been arraigned. Colonel Ainsworth worth, however, did all that could be done in his behalf. Counsel was employed, testimony examined, and every effort made for evidence that might counteract what had already been given. The general prepossession was in his favor, and those who knew him best would yield their conviction of his innocence to no testimony. They thought circumstances might have made him perhaps cognizant of the crime, of which it was easy enough to suspect the elder Grey, and had at the same time involved him in that web of apparent condemnation which he could only explain by revealing his father's guilt. 
                  As the time of trial drew nigh, and nothing favorable to either prisoner had yet transpired, the younger was strongly urged, as the only hope his position admitted, to become a witness for the State. He evidenced great discomposure, however, at the suggestion; he solemnly declared there was no one with whom he had been accessory in any crime; and as the counsel was therefore entirely idle, he peremptorily insisted it should not again be renewed. Any mention of the older prisoner, though necessarily not unfrequent in his hearing, seemed always to give him disturbance; and though he himself sometimes asked of him of the jailer, it was evidently with forced and gloomy effort. It was said the elder Grey bore the confinement of prison-walls far worse than the son. It had been known to Ashton, that, notwithstanding his ruggedness of aspect, his father's health had been some time unsound. Repeated colds had settled on his lungs, and now the confined air, to which his habits of life gave speedy effect, told deeply on his whole appearance. His wonted hardihood of manner had given way with his health; his food was rejected; he seemed not to sleep, and his look at times indicated internal conflict. 
                  Annabel meanwhile seemed supported by a preternatural strength. Her interviews with her husband were little calculated to afford her solace. They were fraught only with passion and gloom, and, to her, fitful hopes, and fears, and agony. Even to her the prisoner spoke not of hopes, such as conscious innocence might seem to have inspired. His words, indeed, seemed all bent but to lessen to her thought the terrors of death, and to fix her hopes upon a union beyond its power. Her attenuated form, and wan and sunken temples, spoke mournfully of her sufferings, and more than once had Colonel Ainsworth felt almost a hope that the fading life would pass before the final trial; but she never spoke of suffering, and seemed awaiting the issue with a patience of sorrow that could but deepen sympathy. 
                
                
                  IV. 
                   
                     
                         
                           Well may the dense throng hold their breath- 
                           'Tis a question or of life or death! 
                           Is there no recordation of the crime, 
                           Save that, beyond all human eyes, 
                           In that great Book of other skies, 
                           Not to be opened in the reign of time? 
                        
                      
                   
                  THE day of trial had come. Judge, jury, witnesses, all the imposing array of court was at last assembled. The house was too small for the crowd-the whole mass of inhabitants had been called out by the sombre interest of the trial. Ashton Grey, as the first indicted, was brought forward; and at his side, supported by Colonel Ainsworth, and wearing a cast of beauty that seemed not of earth, so still, so colorless, so holy, was it, in its expression of meek submission, stood the devoted Annabel. A low murmur of sudden interest ran through the crowd as they looked at her. 
                  The trial was opened. The testimony against the prisoner, the same that had preceded the committal, was again slowly detailed. It formed a terrible chain of evidence. A handkerchief fastened to the body of the deceased, and to which it appeared some weight had been attached that was afterwards disengaged, bore the initials of his name. A woman that did his washing, and that had been made a witness, testified, when it was presented to her, though with evident reluctance, that it was his. A piece of money, which the prisoner on the morning of his arrest had passed away, was identified, by a distinct and peculiar mark, as one that had been seen but the day previous in possession of the deceased; who, in making change to the witness, had referred to its peculiar appearance, and remarked that he always kept it for a pocket-piece. Last of all, a hunter, who was crossing the river from the opposite shore upon the night of the supposed murder, had seen through the dim haze of midnight, at some distance above him, a single individual taking a skiff into the middle of the stream. Upon reaching that part of it, this person, after some moments' delay, turned back in the canoe to the shore, and the skiff sunk immediately after he left it. As the hunter was yet wondering at the strangeness of the circumstance, he observed some small floating article that attached itself to a snag within his reach. He picked it off, and found it to be a cap, which, on going ashore, he took with him to his lodgings. To his surprise he then found, written upon the lining, the name of Ashton Grey; and falling in with the prisoner the next morning as he was going to his boat, mentioned the incident to him, together with that of the sunken skiff, and was still more surprised at the sudden look of perturbation he could not have been mistaken in. 
                  To this most appalling evidence the prisoner, through his counsel, declined making any defence! A sense of pain pervaded the whole assembly. No one who knew Ashton Grey could have been a cold listener. "Few knew him but to love him," and even strangers, as they looked upon the manly form, and noble and youthful countenance, felt that his guilt was beyond belief. His manner during the examination of the witnesses manifested neither indifference nor alarm, but a gloomy composure-a firmness acquired by the long discipline of a mind at last made up to meet the result. Yet, when the testimony was finally closed, and he beheld Colonel Ainsworth making his way out of the crowd with Annabel lifeless in his arms, his agony, though he uttered no sound, moved every heart. He had started forward as if to follow her, and then recollecting himself, he crossed his arms on his breast, and stood motionless; but lip and cheek were livid, and the cold drops on his brow were evidently not of the pressure of the crowd. 
                   
                  The judge, who seemed inclined to wait as if something might yet be offered in the prisoner's behalf, still delayed summing up the evidence. Some one who had just entered was in truth speaking earnestly to his counsel. An order was required from the court for a new witness; and while every countenance in the house lighted up, save that of the prisoner, an officer was sent to bring the elder Grey, who was the witness named, from his prison. It was soon understood that he had himself, through his son's counsel, demanded the permission the court had given; and more than one, impatient for his arrival, crowded to the door. The officer came up, and with him the elder prisoner; but, except by those who had recently visited him, he was scarcely to be recognized. He was but too plainly in the last stage of a disease that had been quickened from its usually slow course, into fierce and rapidly wasting ravages. A violent paroxysm of coughing assailing him as he reached the door, the officer paused, and directing him to sit on the steps for a few moments, waited till he should recover. One of the persons, whom the reader may recollect as forming part of the river group at the arrival of the young boatman, was at his side; and to this man, as soon as he could speak, he turned, with an effort to address him. 
                  "We've had our last hunt together, I 'low, old comrade! I hadn't settled my mind to the track I should take when you was last at the jail. I didn't keer about dying in my bed-I expected it to be at some odd turn, but not where I couldn't touch my feet. But you see they must have a spectacle, and it has to be me or my boy. They've got the rope round his neck, but I should feel the strangulation of it tighter on his throat than on my own. I twisted it myself, and have the fairest right to the benefit. It won't choke me off, no how, from such feasts as luckier men set down to. But I'll leave you a hint, comrade, and 'twon't harm you to remember it-'tis one thing not to keer for dying, and another to make up one's mind to be hung." 
                  The strange address, to which perhaps the curiosity of the officer had extended so long indulgence, was now interrupted. The speaker was conducted forward and placed in the witness' stand. He looked at his son, and then at the vast crowd that were now intensely silent. There was a haggardness in the rugged lineaments of his face that sufficiently attested the long and fierce struggle he had, not obscurely, intimated to his old associate; and the large proportions of his broad frame were yet more apparent from its almost skeleton emaciation. Yet he stood up seemingly strong and unshrinking; his eye, with a defiant gleam that quickly passed, however, taking note of the looks of eager expectation that were bent upon him. But the workings of the yet unsubdued nature were too powerful for the diseased frame. The breaking of a blood-vessel, as he thus stood, gave ghastly evidence of the internal conflict. The blood gushed from his mouth and nostrils, and it was some time ere the formalities of the court could be resumed. Then he kissed the holy Book with more reverence than might have been anticipated; and when at last asked "if he knew aught of the charge under which the prisoner at the bar stood arraigned," he replied in a voice that, though slightly hollow, had yet a strength that made it distinctly heard to the remotest corner of the building. 
                  "Well, the murder was not done, as has been mostly supposed, for money. If the man had any amount, which was more nor likely, it was doubtless stowed away in his trunk or some by-place; and if so, it was sunk in the skiff with the body. He was a person that in former years was well known to me; in our young days we were townsmen. But there was no liking between us. Some matter of rivalship, as often grows out of young men's hot blood, made us enemies; but I never thought of harming him in no way His ill will was deeper. He came forward and gave false witness against me in an accusation of taking what was not my own. I had good reason for believing he had managed himself to get me laid in the charge. I was convicted, and my good name-for it was then fair enough-was blasted to the very root. I broke the jail I was to lie in, as part of my sentence; but a skulking outlaw is a poorer thing than a jail prisoner. I got tired of what people call civilized life, and finally went to them as had no laws to be carried through by perjury. I lived a wild Ingen life for a good many years, till my mind got used to more of savage ideas than white men's. But my feelings towards my old enemy grew deeper and deeper into my natur. It never stirred me to go out of my way expressly to meet him, but I always thought we should meet some time, and then I knew we could not both of us live. Well, the time come. I found out at once that the owner of that trading skiff was the man. I heard him speak as I stepped into the craft, before I'd seen his face, and my blood took a chill like. 'Twas the same voice that had swore away for me every thing a man needed to vallie. But he didn't know me, and I didn't freshen his memory. I settled in my mind very shortly what was to be done. I kept still till I found he'd mostly sold out-that his going any how mightn't be unlikely; and then I fixed on the time. Somehow that evening I got overly restless. I couldn't stay in-doors; and walking through the streets to get myself a little settled, it brought me by one of the public buildings. It was lighted up, and with a considerable crowd in it that had been brought together by some public occasion. Some one was speaking, and thinking it might get off a portion of the time, I went in and sat down among them. Ashton Grey was there. I was used to be pleased at seeing him, but his clear handsome face, as he nodded to me then, seemed to disturb me. His kind look put me in mind how different my own thoughts were, and I got up soon to leave. He was in his boatman's dress, and his cap, which he had flung on the table with others, was of the same material as my own. I had thrown mine beside it, and my thoughts being so busy, I took his in its place. I didn't notice the change till I took it off some hour or so after, and then I thought little of it. It got time for my work. It was silent and dark enough. Not a star was on my way, and I muffled even the lantern I took, in my capote. But I knew my path well, and the skiff seemed as plain to me where it lay as if it had been daylight. I entered it without much stir. I'd had enough of Ingen training to know something of their creeping ways. I stood 'side of my enemy as he lay sleeping in his bunk. I called him by name, and held the lantern that he might see my face. It wan't from any such high notions killing one asleep, as men bloody enough minded sometimes pretend to; but I wanted him to know what debt he was called on to pay, and who give him his discharge. I told him my name, and bid him look at me. Then he knew me, and he knew then it wan't no use to beg his life. The deed was done, and I sat down till he was stark and still enough. Somehow I did not feel satisfied like, as I expected to; but it was necessary to get away the evidences of my work, and I'd mostly laid my plan aforehand. Striking my foot against a rock as I reached the boat, had put me in mind to pick it up for the purpose that I first set about. I tied it in a handkerchief that I took from Ashton Grey's cap (having that still on), and which of course was his. A kind of cowardly fear running over me, that some one might possibly come upon me, I got too hurried (as I've thought since) to make the knots secure. I however fastened it to the body, and moving it round for that purpose, a handful of silver fell from the dead man's pocket. I'd had no thought of his money-I was no robber; but this I naterally picked up and put in my own pocket. That much even didn't bring a pleasant feeling, and I wished I'd let it been; but my main anxiety was to get the body out of the way. I fastened my canoe to the skiff, and rowing it out into the river, lost little time in scuttling it and getting back to the shore. But my work had disturbed me more than I reckoned on, and in stepping into the canoe I took off my cap to let the cool air to my forehead. By some turn I let it fall into the river; I made little effort to recover it, for at the moment my attention was diverted by seeing some one crossing at no great distance below me. It was he doubtless that picked it up.. Early the next morning Ashton came to me to change our caps back. He looked surprised when I told him I had lost it, with his handkerchief, so soon in the river, but let it pass with his usual good natur. Another person came up at the moment to whom I owed a small debt. He mentioned it, as being in want of the amount, and I gave him the silver that I had picked up in the skiff, and turning to Ashton Grey, to whom he said he was himself indebted, he immediately handed him several of the pieces. Among them I've no doubt was the one that upon the same day was made matter of testimony at the boy's committal. Within an hour the body was taken up; whether the waves had washed it clear of the weight, or that it had to come up to give witness of the murder, no man can say; but if it was the last, Ashton Grey understood its arrant; for his cap was tuk to him, as I larned soon after, and the story of the skiff that was told him, in course must have made it all plain to him." 
                  A hum of congratulation ran through the house. Not a face was there but evidenced an almost rapturous pleasure, save that of the redeemed prisoner. His was buried in his hands on the table on which he leaned, and groans that his own darkly impending fate had failed to extort, broke from his inmost heart. The crowd gathered about him. Among the few who recollected that the acquittal of the son was purchased by the conviction of the father, there were yet fewer perhaps who understood the elevated nature that made the guilt of another bitterer than his own condemnation. Yet to these few, at least, it was no shame to the manly spirit that, while he had borne his own attainder without weakness, he bowed his head to weep over the acknowledged guilt and utter humiliation of his doomed parent. 
                  Colonel Ainsworth, whom we saw bearing out the fainting Annabel at the close of the accusing testimony, had shortly after returned. She had been placed in his carriage, in the arms of Mrs. Wilson, to be borne to his tender Marion; and then, returning with a heavy heart to his stand by the wretched prisoner, he had been a listener to all that followed. Ere the witness had scarcely paused in his detail, Colonel Ainsworth had penciled to his wife all that was to be told-"Young Grey is acquitted-don't let Annabel die! "Such was the note. "Speed! speed!" he repeated to the messenger, whom he followed to the door; and then pausing a moment to enjoy his own sense of infinite relief, he now turned back to draw the young husband from his not unreasonable anguish. He knew well the chord that would vibrate with softer tones. "This will be life," he whispered, "to your young wife. I have already sent the news that will restore her." Ashton Grey wrung the hand of his considerate friend. He struggled to speak, but his words were arrested; the hollow, yet still distinct voice of the witness was again chaining attention. 
                  "I've told all that's needful, I 'low, to clear the young man," he resumed, "but please the court, there's something more as relates to him on my mind. My time, I think, is getting short; for unless ye hurry, I shall slip the hangman, and I'd like to say all I have to, if I may be allowed." 
                  "Say on," said the court; and the witness, after looking at the bowed down prisoner for a moment with an expression that gave a strange softness to his haggard face, proceeded. 
                  "Ashton Grey, as he is called, has always passed for my son-he himself has no other knowledge; but I am not his father." 
                  Again the young man lifted his head; and well might the blood rush to the veins on his wan temples! Well might he gasp for breath as he gazed at the speaker! The witness met the look with a deepening expression of tenderness. 
                  "No, poor boy! To the last I might a' took pride in such a son; but I will not leave you the shame of either my name or my blood. You are as clear of both as the crime they charged you with. Years ago I bought you, then a fair boy not more nor two years old, of a murderous savage. I tuk you from him when he had his fingers already clutched in your hair-your pretty, bright curls, the prettiest I'd ever seen, only one's that had been long under the dust. I give him all I had in the world to save you, and I tuk you to my bosom as a mother would. I bound up your little feet-I carried you miles on my shoulders-I fed you when I starved myself. But you paid me for it all," he continued, as the gaze so intently fixed upon him gave place to tears; "you was all the light there was for years on my way. There's no occasion for grief now, poor boy! tears aint for one like me." 
                  "Permit me to ask," said Colonel Ainsworth, turning from the court to the witness, "what the real name of the young man is. Know you any thing of his parentage?" 
                   
                  "Nothing," said the other, "nothing. The child was brought in with other prisoners from the Kentuck side. But that's all I know. I was for a long time so feared he might he reclaimed, that I carried him with me from tribe to tribe. But there is a Shawanee, as I have been told by an old messmate, at this time in the place, that was one of the war-party that tuk the boy." 
                  The witness glanced round him, and fixed his eye once more on the man with whom he had spoken at his entrance. 
                  "One more turn for me, old comrade," he said, "after all! Go and fetch old Walk-in-the-water to the court. 'Twill ease my mind to have the young man freed from all uneasiness." 
                  Once more expectation was strained to the liveliest interest. The old backwoodsman was not long in fulfilling his mission. The blanketed form of the red man soon stood with glistening eye before the assembly. The witness addressed a few words to him in his own language, and then, turning to Colonel Ainsworth, said, "Ask him what you want to know; he speaks English well enough, I 'low, to answer ye." 
                  He was not mistaken-the answers of the old chief were sufficiently intelligible. The time and place of the capture, with various attendant circumstances, were detailed in a way to identify the young captive beyond a doubt. The rich color of Colonel Ainsworth's cheek paled during the narration, and for some moments he was evidently shaken with emotion. Then the soldierly spirit rallied. 
                  "Rise, young man," he said, laying his hand on the prisoner's head, "and let me look on you as I now know you to be." 
                  Instinctively our hero arose, and as the two manly forms stood thus together, a strong resemblance in the lineaments was easily to be traced. 
                  "I am your father!" said Colonel Ainsworth, in a voice of gushing tenderness, and they were locked in each other's arms. 
                  The immediate business of the court was at last resumed. The formula of examination and conviction was completed, and the criminal sentenced to a death that disease was evidently about to anticipate; and, supported by his guard, was borne back to his prison. Colonel Ainsworth and his son were arm in arm beside him. 
                  "He is dying," said the latter, as he was at last laid upon his straw. The changing hues of the face but too well confirmed it; but a gleam of satisfaction touched the ghastly lines. 
                  "Kind to the last, Ashton!" he said, as the young man leaned sorrowfully over him; "so let me call you this once more. I give you that name for my little dead brother, that was laid in the ground when he was as fair as you was-just such a pretty face and curls; and it was the only holy memory I'd kept in my heart." 
                  "My son shall keep the name," said Colonel Ainsworth kindly, and again a gleam of pleasure crossed the changing face. 
                  "Would you not like to see some one that would talk with you of a better world?" said the Colonel. 
                  "Yes, yes! there has been one to me more than once, that would fain a'told me of Him that died for sinners; and yet I refused to hear him. Can there be hope for me yet?" 
                  The holy man was instantly brought. Deep and fervently the voice of supplication went up in that dying cell. The strong spirit was struggling now to grasp the promises of redeeming mercy; and when Colonel Ainsworth and his son shortly after took a solemn leave, it was not without hope. When the hush of night fell soon after, the heart that had struggled so fearfully with sin was hushed also. 
                  A different scene awaits us,-we pause almost tremblingly ere we lift the curtain. We will give but a moment's view of it. The restored bride lies on the throbbing bosom of her husband, and Colonel Ainsworth, looking at them for a moment with intense delight, has turned to his Marion, and taken her tenderly in his own arms. 
                  "My wife! my Marion! can you bear yet more happiness? You that for my sake for years have borne up under a great sorrow, will you not for my sake also be strong under a flood-tide of gladness? Marion, our boy that we have so long mourned-our precious one, whose image has never faded from our hearts,- he still lives! Bear up, my love!-he is restored to us-he is all that we could ask. Marion, Ashton Grey is our son! These," said he, bearing her half-fainting form towards Annabel and her husband, and folding them both with her in one embrace,-"these are our children!" 
                
             
            THE END. 
         
       
       
          
             
            D. APPLETON & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS. 
            Important New Publications. 
             
               I. 
               The Confidential Correspondence of Napoleon Bonaparte 
               WITH HIS BROTHER JOSEPH. 
               SELECTED AND TRANSLATED, WITH EXPLANATORY NOTES. FROM THE "MEMOIRES DU ROI JOSEPH." 
               Two Thick Volumes, 12mo. Price Two Dollars. 
               No book has yet appeared which furnishes so correct a portraiture of the character of Napoleon. He was in almost daily communication with his brother Joseph, from his first appointment as the General of Brigade, down to the 16th of June, 1815. 
               We cannot form a correct idea of the character of the great mind that swayed over nearly the whole Continent of Europe, without reading these Letters, which, unlike official correspondence, open to us the inmost thoughts and motives of action of the writer. These letters bear upon every subject, and we see with what a watchful eye he cared for even the smallest thing. A distinguished critic has observed in examining the early sheets, that "Biographers will have to write their biographies of Napoleon over again." 
             
             
               The Irish Abroad and at Home, 
               AT THE COURT AND IN THE CAMP: 
               WITH SOUVENIRS OF "THE BRIGADE," REMINISCENCES OF AN EMIGRANT MILESIAN 
               1 vol. 12mo. Cloth. One Dollar. 
               (From the Portland Advertiser.) An interesting book, half historical, half anecdotal, and wholly Irish in subject, if not in handling. It contains sketches of some of Ireland's greatest minds, as well as observant notes of affairs in France during the reign of Napoleon. Much information of a curious nature is given respecting Irish laws and customs. 
               (From the Boston Telegraph.) We notice that this work is praised highly, and we have examined it sufficiently to find that it is very sprightly and entertaining. The title-page sufficiently indicates the general character of the book, but it does not show how finely the author has treated the subject, which he makes attractive by his brilliant sketches of character, incidents, and adventure. To collect the materials for this work required much time and labor, and to work them up in this style required much brightness of intellect and fineness of culture. 
             
          
          
             
            Important New Publications. 
             
               I. 
               Village and Farm Cottages. 
               THE REQUIREMENTS OF AMERICAN VILLAGE HOMES CONSIDERED AND SUGGESTED, 
               With Designs for such Houses of Moderate Cost. 
               BY HENRY W. CLEVELAND, WM. BACKUS, & SAML. D. BACKUS. 
               1 vol. 8vo. Illustrated with 100 Engravings. Price $2. 
               (From the N. Y. Evening Post.) The work is professedly intended for that numerous class who cannot afford to build expensively. The design is well carried out. We have here some two dozen cottages and farm houses, of various size, accommodation, and style, ranging, in estimated cost, from $600 to $3,000. These humble elevations are, for the most part, simple and graceful; tastefully set off with accompaniments of shrub and tree, and show how beautiful rural cottages may and ought to become. 
               The floor plans and sections show that the attention given to the internal arrangements have been most careful and judicious. To make communication easy between the rooms, and yet to insure privacy and seclusion, to facilitate the work of a household with few or no servants, to make the little abode pleasant to its inmates and inviting to friends, is the evident, and, we think, the successful intent of the authors. Working plans and printed specifications for each house can be had at a trifling cost, upon application to the architects. This is a novel feature in architectural publications, and a very judicious one. 
               The book contains many useful remarks and truly practical hints. Any person about to build may read with profit the sections on the choice of a lot, on the adoption of a plan, on painting, on our forest timbers, and on the application of principles to details. 
             
             
               II. 
               The Attache in Madrid; 
               OR, SKETCHES OF THE COURT OF ISABELLA II. 
               1 vol. 12mo. 368 pages. $1. 
               "It is believed that there is no other book in our language which presents so good a picture of Spain and the Spaniards as this does. The author possesses the necessary qualifications for the production of such a work. The Spaniards are a proud people-proud of their country and history-proud of their traditions and poetry-proud of their old romances and chivalry-prcud of their churches and their religion-and proud of their manners and habits. With such a nation the Attach could feel a deep and sincere sympathy. He was not so materialistic as to be haunted by the ghost of a ten-cent-piece in the Palace of the Escurial. He saw every thing, from the private levee to the public bull-fight; from the moonlight dance of Manolas to the regal balls of the Duchess d'Alva; from the needle-work of the Spanish maiden to the glorious paintings of Titian, Velasquez, and Murillo; and he has put upon paper all that was worthy of record, which came under his notice. But this is not all. He has given us a kind of political history of modern Spain. His book will make Spanish politics, and Spanish partisanship, as familiar to the American reader as the conchology of his own "Hards" and "Softs." The account given of M. Soul's diplomacy, of his heroism, is not the least interesting chapter in the work; and the description of the Revolution of 1848, and of the flight of Queen Christina and of the San Luis Cabinet, is graphic, instructive, and interesting. 
               "It is evident that the relations of the author at the Spanish Court were at once delicate and intimate." 
             
          
       
   
