
    ----CITATION----
        Cooke, John Esten, (1830-1886). Hilt to Hilt, or, Days and Nights on the Banks of the Shenandoah in the Autumn of
               1864 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6148 wright2-0618
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         

            NEW NOVELS BY JOHN ESTEN COOKE.
            
               I.—FAIRFAX. Price $1.75
               II.—HILT TO HILT. 1.50
               III.—HAMMER AND RAPIER. (In press.)
            
            All published uniform with this volume. Sold everywhere, and sent by mail
                  free on receipt of price, by G. W. CARLETON, Publisher, NEW YORK.
         
         
            
               HILT TO HILT;
               OR, Days and Nights on the Banks of the Shenandoah IN THE
                  AUTUMN OF 1864.
               From the Mss. of Colonel Surry of Eagle's Nest.
            
            BY JOHN ESTEN COOKE, AUTHOR OF "FAIRFAX," "SURRY OF
               EAGLE'S NEST," ETC., ETC.
            
               NEW YORK:
               G. W. CARLETON, PUBLISHER.
               LONDON:
               S. LOW, SON, & CO.
            
            MDCCCLXIX.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by GEO. W. CARLETON,
                  In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern
                  District of New York.
               THE NEW YORK PRINTING COMPANY,
               81, 83, and 85 Centre Street, NEW YORK.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               PROLOGUE. 7
               
               I.—In "Mosby's Confederacy." 11
               
               II.—The Night-Hawks. 17
               
               III.—Landon. 21
               
               IV.—Knocked from the Saddle. 25
               
               V.—Captain Blount. 31
               
               VI.—How they Managed Matters on the Border in 1864. 34
               
               VII.—An Eye for an Eye. 36
               
               VIII.—The Night March. 41
               
               IX.—The Old Chapel. 53
               
               X.—Why I did not Return with Landon. 58
               
               XI.—How I Missed my Supper. 65
               
               XII.—Captain Ratcliffe. 70
               
               XIII.—A Moonlight Ride. 77
               
               XIV.—Arden's Secret. 81
               
               XV.—Arden Dismounts Me. 90
               
               XVI.—One! Two! Three! Four! 93
               
               XVII.—Winchester. 100
               
               XVIII.—Early and some Braves of the Valley Army. 107
               
               XIX.—Fitzhugh Lee, the Gay and Gallant. 112
               
               XX.—The Torch. 117
               
               XXI.—"Before to-morrow you will be dead—or I will!" 122
               
               XXII.—Lieutenant Arden, U.S.A. 126
               
               XXIII.—Bizarre. 130
               
               XXIV.—Lover's Leap. 138
               
               XXV.—Poison. 145
               
               
               XXVI.—Nameless. 156
               
               XXVII.—"A Trump!" 167
               
               XXVIII.—One of the Bright Spots in my Memory. 170
               
               XXIX.—Blount's Secret. 176
               
               XXX.—Touch-and-go. 183
               
               XXXI.—The Deserter. 190
               
               XXXII.—Antoinette Duvarny. 195
               
               XXXIII.—The Ring. 203
               
               XXXIV.—The Offer and Refusal. 209
               
               XXXV.—In the "Fox-Spring Woods." 214
               
               XXXVI.—War in the Valley of the Shenandoah in 1864. 221
               
               XXXVII.—No Quarter. 225
               
               XXXVIII.—"Partisan Rancour." 228
               
               XXXIX.—The Last Knot in the String. 231
               
               XL.—Across a Grave. 236
               
               XLI.—Arden's Badges. 243
               
               XLII.—"Coward! Coward! Coward!" 246
               
               XLIII.—Nemesis. 251
               
            
            
               EPILOGUE:
               I.—The Blue Courier. 259
               
               II.—My Last Look at the Red-Cross Flag. 263
               
               III.—In Arms to the Last. 267
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Hilt to hilt, or, Days and nights on the banks of the Shenandoah in the Autumn of
               1864
            
               PROLOGUE.
               
                  COLONEL SURRY TO THE READER:
               
               I perform a bold exploit to-day, my dear reader.
               The exploit in question is sending Hilt to Hilt to the press.
               It is a long time now since 1866, and, if you have read, you have probably
                  forgotten the volume entitled Surry of Eagle's Nest.
               
               Alas! authors must expect to be lost sight of as the years flow on. I am not so
                  vain as to imagine you remember my memoirs; and, for a stronger reason still, you
                  must have forgotten their reception by my critical friends of New England. They
                  were flayed by those fierce foemen. I recall the ceremony with a nervous shiver.
                  Those terrible literary Camanches brandished the tomahawk, uttered the war-whoop,
                  and performed a dance of fearful triumph around the prostrate and bleeding
                  victim.
               
               The unfortunate memoirs of Colonel Surry were "highly-seasoned . . . duels and
                  murderous settlements of deadly feuds kept up the excitement" . . . the author
                  need not fear that his portrait of Stuart would "bore any one fifty years hence,"
                  as nobody at that remote period would know of the book's existence . . . parts
                  were "cribbed from Dickens" . . . "it might find a good market with the 'New York
                  Ledger.'" . . . the style was "so excessively florid, that but for the perpetual
                  flow of incident it would be intolerable!" . . . and "the literary execution was
                  in that exaggerated style in which the Southern writers so often indulge!"
               All this, and more, descended on the unfortunate Colonel Surry.
               Well, that bon mot about "fifty years hence"
                  made me laugh. The phrases "excessively florid" and "exaggerated style" made me
                  reflect. Was I then so very florid and exaggerated, as my friends declared? I had
                  supposed the MS. of Surry of Eagle's Nest to have been composed in
                  a most compact, terse, and altogether faultless style;—and here was a great
                  critic, and a critic in Boston, which was worse still, declaring that I was florid
                  and exaggerated!
               What to do? Alas! Surry of Eagle's Nest was printed. The poor youth
                  had made his entrance into the bustling world, and the mischief was done. I could
                  only resolve that, in future, I would never be florid or exaggerated any more—that
                  I would avoid the errours of the past: another flaying, like that received from
                  the Pilgrim sons of New England, would, I felt, put an end to my career.
               In the present episode of my memoirs, therefore, good reader, which I call
                     Hilt to Hilt, I tell a plain and unadorned story. I hope the
                  style is not florid; I know the events, strange as they appear, are not
                  exaggerated. It is almost impossible, indeed, to exaggerate the wild romance of
                  that Partisan life of 1864. I have lived in the midst of it; seen it with my eyes;
                  known and spoken with the actors in it; and yet I assure you that I find it
                  difficult to realize that the whole was not a dream.
               Let me repeat that whatever seems strangest in this book is substantially, when
                  not literally, true. There were one or two additional incidents which I designed to relate. I have not related
                  them. I felt that the reader would call me a "sensation-writer."
               Here, then, worthy reader, I present you with a brief and fierce episode in the
                  strange life of the Virginia border, in the autumn of 1864.
               Some of the men who figured in these scenes are dead. Others still live, and will
                  tell you that I exaggerate nothing.
               
                  SURRY OF EAGLE'S NEST.
               
            
            
               HILT TO HILT.
               
                  I. IN "MOSBY'S CONFEDERACY."
                  IN the first days of autumn, 1864, I left Petersburg, where Lee confronted
                     Grant, to go on a tour of duty to the Shenandoah Valley, where Early confronted
                     Sheridan.
                  This journey was made on horseback, and I encountered upon the way some curious
                     incidents and remarkable personages.
                  Incidents and personages suited the epoch; for, strangest of the strange, was
                     that autumn of 1864! Do you remember it, reader? For my part, I shall never
                     forget it. On all sides, doubt, anxiety, suffering,—a sombre defiance mingled
                     with despair. From every quarter,—North, South, East, and West,—the clash of
                     arms; by day and by night, on the four winds, the roar of cannon; in the
                     trenches by the Appomattox, the incessant rattle of skirmishers; in the fields
                     and forests of the border, the crack of pistols and carbines. The war
                     mortal,—breast to breast, hilt to
                     hilt. The country desolate; the fields untilled; the women in black, weeping
                     for dead husbands; the children in rags, calling for dead fathers!
                  In that lugubrious autumn of the dark year '64, the Southern Enceladus was
                     prostrate, and vainly writhed beneath the mountains piled upon him. Lee's keen
                     and trenchant rapier was worn to the hilt nearly; and the red flag, so long
                     borne aloft on its point, was about to fall, and be dragged in the dust of
                     defeat; but never, Heaven be thanked, in the mire of dishonour!
                  It was at this tragic epoch that I set out on my horseback journey through
                     Virginia.
                  Crossing the Rapidan at Raccoon Ford, above Chancellorsville, and the
                     Rappahannock near the little village of Orleans, I pushed on through Fauquier,
                     gazing with curious interest on the deserted country around me. It was a very
                     different region from the lowland which I had just left, and war was evidently
                     carried on here in a very different fashion. At Petersburg, two great armies
                     faced each other behind breast-works,—sullen, watchful, resembling lions about
                     to spring; and these lions were fed by railroads and long trains of wagons,
                     going and coming from every quarter. Here, in Fauquier, at the foot of the
                     mountains, there were no armies, no railroads, no wagons, and, it seemed, no
                     troops of any description whatever. "Mosby's Confederacy," as the people called
                     the region, was apparently uninhabited. I went on, mile after mile, without
                     encountering a human being. The roads were deserted. Stray cattle wandered wild
                     on the slopes of the great hills. The partridge, long unmolested, and free from
                     all apprehension, perched on the fence beside me as I passed along, perfectly
                     tranquil, within a few feet of my pistol's muzzle.
                  This physiognomy of the landscape, however, did not deceive me. I knew very
                     well that it was only the chance of travel which enabled me thus to pass
                     unchallenged; for this country which I was traversing—like the banks of the
                     Shenandoah—was notoriously a "Debatable Land,"—the home of the scout and the
                     ranger. On these deserted roads took place those incessant combats of Mosby and
                     his men with the Federal cavalry. These forests were the scenes of those
                     ambuscades, surprises, sudden collisions, in which sabres clashed, pistols and
                     carbines rang, and yells rose, mingling with the din of hoofs, as the blue and
                     gray rangers came together. Not a week passed here but the autumn leaves were
                     dyed still redder with the blood of human beings.
                  Such were the scenes and figures which peopled my imagination as I rode on
                     through the forests of Fauquier. Under the tranquil beauty there was something
                     sombre and menacing. I had heard, of this land, a hundred bloody histories,—the
                        strangest tales of private feuds
                     and secret vengeances. Here, on the war-harried Virginia border, men had
                     appeared mysteriously, coming, none knew whence; had joined the Partisans under
                     names which were clearly assumed; had fought with deadly rancour; fallen
                     unnoted, and disappeared as the autumn leaf flits away on the wind, swallowed
                     up with their mystery in oblivion. Men hated each other bitterly everywhere, in
                     1864; but north of the Rappahannock, and along the banks of the Shenandoah,
                     there seemed to be something terrible and bloody in the very atmosphere, which
                     inflamed the heart, and drove to mad excesses all who breathed it.
                  Such was the Border during the last months of the war; and it is a page from
                     the unpublished history of this strange "place and time"—the banks of the
                     Shenandoah between Winchester and the Blue Ridge, in 1864—that I beg leave to
                     lay before the reader.
                  After a day and night at "The Oaks," the residence of my friend, Colonel
                     Beverley, near Markham, I resumed my journey; and, following the mountain road
                     through a gorge of the Blue Ridge, reached about sunset the small village of
                     Paris.
                  Paris lies, like a hawk's nest, in that gash of the mountain called Ashby's
                     Gap. At that time it might have been compared with more fitness to a sentinel
                     posted to watch the gorge and give the alarm on the approach of an enemy. That
                     enemy frequently made his appearance. Sheridan lay on the Opequon, watching his
                     daring opponent, Early; and scouting parties of Federal cavalry passed and
                     repassed, almost daily, through the gap, on the lookout for Confederates. Like
                     the whole country, Paris appeared poverty-stricken and melancholy. The houses
                     were nearly deserted; the fences had been pulled down; the sign-board of the
                     old tavern was hanging by one corner; the tavern itself was dismantled; grass
                     grew in the streets of the hamlet, and scarce a cur yelped. There is a picture
                     "in little" of a Virginia village in 1864.
                  In front of the rickety tavern some horses were standing bridled and saddled.
                     On the low fence were sitting several officers and men in gray. Among these I
                     recognized Colonel F——, of General Longstreet's staff, who got down and came to
                     meet me. We exchanged a cordial greeting. I gave him the news from Petersburg,
                     and then asked him in turn for intelligence from the Valley.
                  "Nothing," was his reply. "Early is still at Winchester, and Sheridan on the
                     Opequon,—afraid to attack."
                  "How is the country around Millwood, on the other side of the gap?"
                  "Full of Yankees, with a heavy picket at Berry's Ferry."
                  
                  This was discouraging, as I wished to go on to the house of a friend near White
                     Post, that evening. To retrace my steps, and enter the Valley by Manassas Gap,
                     seemed absurd.
                  "I think I'll try and get over somewhere," I said.
                  "Get over—to-night?" exclaimed the colonel.
                  "Yes."
                  "You'll certainly be captured."
                  "I will risk it."
                  "Well, good luck to you, my dear fellow. Shake hands: I always like to take
                     affectionate leave of a friend who is about to 'go up.'"
                  We exchanged a grasp of the hand amid general laughter from the crowd, and my
                     friend went back to his perch on the fence. I turned my horse's head up the
                     mountain.
                  I had not gone twenty steps when I heard the colonel call after me.
                  "I say, Surry!"
                  I turned my head.
                  "Give my love to any friends of mine you meet in Washington!"*
                  
                  
                     *His words.
                  
                  It was with this most cheerful of "last greetings" still ringing in my ears
                     that I went on up the mountain.
               
               
                  II. THE NIGHT-HAWKS.
                  SLOWLY ascending the steep road, I reached the "Big Poplar," a well-known tree
                     on the summit of the mountain, just as the last rays of sunset were bathing in
                     red and orange the autumn foliage.
                  From the direction of Winchester came the dull mutter of cannon, and an
                     occasional carbine shot was heard in front from the picket at the ford. All
                     this was in disagreeable contrast with the tranquil beauty of the landscape.
                     The sides of the Gap burned with the first fiery tints of autumn. The blue
                     mountains, melting into haze, rolled far away southward, like gigantic billows.
                     Through the gorge, flushed with sunset, lay the beautiful, the enchanting, the
                     wonderful Valley of the Shenandoah.
                  It seemed a sacrilege to desecrate this fairy region,—to trample these sweet
                     fields beneath the iron heel of war. But the heel was upon them. The land was a
                     waste. Every pass was guarded. Not even the solitary and inoffensive Surry
                     could get across the mountain to his friends, without imminent danger of
                     capture.
                  
                  I had determined, however, to attempt it. By flanking the picket in front, and
                     crossing at the private and unused ford, called "The Island," below, I hoped to
                     make my way unperceived to the house of the friend referred to, who lived
                     beyond Millwood.
                  To the execution of this scheme I now proceeded. Night was rapidly descending,
                     and, by the time I reached the Mount-Carmel road, branching off to my right, it
                     was dark.
                  I had scarcely gone two hundred yards on the narrow mountain road, half
                     concealed beneath evergreens and overhanging rocks, when all at once a shadow
                     seemed to rise from the earth in front of me. I heard the click of a trigger,
                     and a voice said:—
                  "Halt! Who goes there?"
                  "Friend," I replied, cocking my pistol under my cape.
                  "What command?" said the voice.
                  "Army of Northern Virginia. What do you belong to?"
                  "The Night-Hawks," was the reply of the shadow.
                  A brief silence followed.
                  "Good!" I said, at length. "I never heard of the Night-Hawks, but I know you
                     are a Virginian from your voice, and from your post on this road. I am going to
                     cross at the Island."
                  "I will ride with you," said the horseman.
                  I assented to this at once, and we rode on in the darkness side by side, in
                     silence.
                  Descending the rugged declivity, we reached the banks of the river, overhung by
                     the white arms of immense sycamores, plunged into the water, and, half fording,
                     half swimming, reached the Island, and then the western bank.
                  Crossing a small field we entered a forest which seemed uninhabited, except by
                     the owls, whose weird laughter was heard in the thicket, or the whippoorwills,
                     crying plaintively from the interwoven festoons between the great sycamores. We
                     had scarcely gone fifty steps in the wood, however, when a second shadow rose
                     in the path; challenged, was responded to in a low voice by my companion; and
                     we continued our way.
                  I have been on dark marches. Once with General Stuart, near Chantilly, in 1862,
                     we rode on through a night so murky that our horses resembled black phantoms
                     breasting a sea of ink. But that ride through the woods of the Shenandoah
                     surpassed all.
                  All at once, however, a weird light filtrated through the boughs, and I glanced
                     over my shoulder. The moon had just soared above the pine-clad summit of the
                     Blue Ridge, like a great shield bathed in blood.
                  
                  Then the wood opened before us, and a small glade revealed itself, completely
                     walled in with thickets.
                  Suddenly I saw the gleam of a red Confederate battle-flag; and in the glade
                     twenty or thirty horses stood fully equipped. Beside them lay their
                     riders,—every man holding his bridle, and ready to mount at a moment's
                     notice.
               
               
                  III. LANDON.
                  ERECT, in the centre of the wild and picturesque group, stood a man, leaning
                     one heavily gauntleted hand on the pommel of his saddle, the other on the hilt
                     of a light sabre.
                  He was apparently about twenty-five or six; and his plain gray coat, buttoned
                     from top to bottom, defined a figure, straight, supple, and vigourous. Around
                     his waist he wore a red sash; his boots reached above the knee; over his
                     forehead drooped a brown hat, with the black cavalry feather. The face, which
                     the moonlight clearly revealed, was a striking one. In the penetrating eyes,
                     and the lips, half covered with a shaggy moustache, could be read something
                     cool, resolute, and "thorough-bred." Never was will written
                     plainer on human countenance. This man evidently belonged to that class who
                     think, decide, and act for themselves, preserving through all an invincible
                     coolness. In the face, for the rest, there was something hard and impassive.
                     One glance at him convinced me that he had passed through some terrible ordeal,
                     and had come out, steel.
                  
                  I was sure that I had seen him somewhere; but was completely at a loss to
                     determine where or when.
                  I approached with my companion.
                  "Who is that?" he said, in the brief tone of command.
                  He glanced at me keenly. Then all at once, before my friend of the Mount-Carmel
                     road could reply, the Partisan added coolly:—
                  "I am glad to see you, Colonel Surry!"
                  With which words he advanced a step, made me the bow of a nobleman, and,
                     drawing off his yellow gauntlet, offered me his hand.
                  "Ah! you know me, captain!" I said, taking the hand, which was white and
                     slender, but had the grip of a vice.
                  "Perfectly, colonel; I have had the pleasure of seeing you in the army."
                  Suddenly I remembered.
                  "And I have seen you, captain. It was near Manassas last October, when the
                     cavalry followed Meade after Bristoe. We came to a barricade near Yates' ford;
                     the leading squadron wavered before the volleys of the sharpshooters;
                        you took the front, charged over the felled trees, and drove
                     the enemy. General Stuart paid you a magnificent compliment on that occasion,
                     and never was one better deserved,—Captain St. Leger!"
                  The partisan gave me one of his penetrating glances.
                  "My name is Landon, colonel," he said, with perfect calmness.
                  I looked at him with undisguised astonishment.
                  "And yet I could swear it was you that made that charge! Is it
                     possible that two human beings can resemble each other so strangely?"
                  For a moment he made no reply. He was evidently hesitating.
                  "You were not that officer?" I said.
                  "Well, yes, colonel, the officer in question was myself, and at that time I was
                     called St. Leger. I have since resumed my real name, or rather the full name of
                     which the former was a portion."
                  "Your real name?"
                  "St. Leger Landon, at your service," returned the Partisan, coolly, and making
                     me a bow.
                  Before I could reply, our colloquy was brought suddenly to an end.
                  "All right, captain!" said a low voice, behind the Partisan.
                  And a boy of about sixteen, mild, fair-haired, and gentle in appearance,
                     advanced noiselessly into the area.
                  "Touch-and-go!" said the partisan, "well, how many?"
                  "Seventy or eighty, captain."
                  
                  "That is three horses apiece for the command! Lieutenant Arden."
                  A young man of about twenty-two rose quickly from among the prostrate figures,
                     and approached, saluting. There was something gay and gallant in his sparkling
                     eyes and smiling lips, but what chiefly impressed me was the singular sweetness
                     and modesty of his bearing and expression.
                  Landon introduced me to the young lieutenant; gave him some rapid orders, and
                     then turned to me.
                  "I am going to attack the picket at the river, colonel,—will you look on?"
                  "I will do better, captain,—take a hand,—if I am allowed to rank as a
                     Night-Hawk, and keep the fresh horse I capture."
                  "You shall keep half a dozen if you choose, colonel."
                  And Landon vaulted into the saddle with an ease which showed the perfect
                     horseman, the thorough cavalier, who would stop at nothing.
                  "Attention!"
                  Before the sound of his voice had died away, every man was in the saddle.
                  "Unfurl the flag!"
                  The order was obeyed.
                  Then, as silently as though they had been a party of phantoms, the little band
                     began to move beneath the shadowy foliage toward the picket.
               
               
                  IV. KNOCKED FROM THE SADDLE.
                  THE little band of Night-Hawks had gone about half a mile, when, through an
                     opening in the forest, we caught a gleam from the moonlit river.
                  On the bank, beneath some great sycamores, was a dusky and confused group of
                     men and horses. From this group rose a stifled hum.
                  All at once, Touch-and-go laid his hand upon Landon's arm.
                  "Hist! captain," he whispered; "you are almost on the vidette."
                  "Where is he?"
                  "Just beyond that thicket."
                  "Can you capture him without noise?"
                  Touch-and-go made a silent movement with his head.
                  "I will halt, then," said Landon. And with a gesture he halted the column.
                  Touch-and-go had dismounted; had gone forward stealthily on foot; and not a
                     sound was heard.
                  Five minutes passed thus; then two figures emerged from the shadow: it was Touch-and-go
                     with his prisoner.
                  "Good!" said Landon. "You don't make much noise."
                  "I put my pistol to his head, and he surrendered without a word."
                  Landon turned to the prisoner, a black-browed individual in blue, and was about
                     to speak, when one of the horses of the party uttered a shrill neigh.
                  "Look out, captain," said Touch-and-go, in a low voice, "that will put them on
                     their guard."
                  "Right!" exclaimed Landon, and, drawing his sabre, he struck the spur into his
                     horse, and shouted, "Charge!"
                  The column swept forward like a storm-wind, and fell with loud yells on the
                     picket, which ran hastily to horse. It was too late. Landon's men were in the
                     midst of them, banging with the pistol and slashing with the sabre.
                  It was a scene of the wildest confusion, and nothing was heard but shouts,
                     groans, and yells. The officer commanding the Federal picket attempted vainly
                     to rally his men. They fled wildly from the river, over the road to Millwood,
                     with the Rangers pressing them at every step. That moonlight surprise and chase
                     was singular. I will always remember it; and nothing remains so distinctly in
                     my mind as the figure of Landon, as he rushed upon the track of the officer
                     commanding the Federals.
                  Landon had seemed to disdain all other opponents, and evidently sought this one
                     alone. When the Federal officer followed his flying picket, the Partisan
                     singled him out, drove his horse onward on the track of the fugitive, with
                     bloody spurs; and when within sight of Millwood, just above a mill, I saw him
                     come up with his adversary.
                  As the Partisan reached his side, the sabres gleamed in the moon, and a ringing
                     clash followed. Landon had delivered the "right cut;" his weapon had
                     encountered his opponent's guard; the Partisan's sabre was shivered.
                  He dropped the stump, drew his pistol, and fired every barrel, with the muzzle
                     resting almost on the Federal officer's breast. Every charge missed; the speed
                     of the horses was so great that no human aim could be relied on.
                  Suddenly a loud cheer was heard from the direction of Millwood; a din of
                     smiting hoofs mingled with it, and the long continuous splash of a column
                     passing through a little stream in front, indicated that a heavy reinforcement
                     of Federal cavalry, alarmed by the firing, was pressing forward.
                  They were not three hundred yards distant; their drawn sabres flashed in the
                     moonbeams. As well as I could make
                     out, they numbered about two hundred men.
                  Landon had just fired his last barrel, when the enemy came on at a headlong
                     gallop. I saw a flash dart from the Partisan's eye; his white teeth gnawed the
                     under lip. Burying both rowels in the sides of his horse, he was, in an
                     instant, beside the Federal officer of the picket, and, raising his pistol,
                     struck him with the weapon over the head.
                  The blow was enough to fell an ox. The officer dropped his rein, fell from the
                     saddle, and, his foot hanging in the stirrup, was dragged onward by his flying
                     animal, and disappeared.
                  At the same instant, from the leading platoon of the Federal cavalry, came a
                     shower of bullets. Landon coolly snapped his empty pistol in their faces,
                     turned his horse, and, galloping down the declivity to the mill, drew up his
                     men upon the slope just beyond, to receive the Federal charge.
                  It came and swept all before it. For a moment the air was full of pistol and
                     carbine shots, clashing blades and resounding shouts. Then Landon's men were
                     driven with the sabre. With the enemy close upon their heels, banging and
                     slashing, the Night-Hawks retreated rapidly past the débouchement of the Bethel
                     road, toward the Shenandoah.
                  This was the position of affairs, when, by one of those sudden incidents, which
                     render Partisan combats bats so exciting, the whole face of things was
                     changed.
                  Landon had been swept back more than half a mile; had leaped the stone fence on
                     the side of the turnpike, and was pouring a hot fire into the enemy's flank, as
                     they charged by, when, suddenly, rapid firing, accompanied by loud shouts, was
                     heard in the Federal rear. At that sound, the leading squadron paused, half
                     undecided. Landon decided them. Leaping into the road with ten or fifteen men
                     he made an obstinate charge, the Federals gave back, and, extending his arm,
                     Landon uttered a shout of fierce triumph.
                  I followed the direction of his finger. The crest at the mouth of the Bethel
                     road was swarming with gray horsemen, at least a hundred, apparently, in
                     number. They had fallen on the Federal rear; were now firing and cutting among
                     them; and it was scarcely ten minutes before the entire force of blue horsemen
                     was retreating, hotly pursued, through the village of Millwood, toward
                     Berryville.
                  Never was work done better or more rapidly. The Federal horse were swept away
                     as leaves are swept by the wind. The sudden surprise had completely
                     "demoralized" them,—a misfortune which will occur, under such circumstances, to
                     all but the best troops; and the combat had become a mere fox-chase.
                  My horse was killed under me as I was passing the mill in pursuit; but I had only to mount one
                     of twenty which were running about riderless.
                  Seizing a fine bay by the bridle, I threw myself into the saddle, and soon
                     rejoined Landon, beyond Millwood. He had given up further pursuit, sent to
                     recall his men, and was sitting his horse in the middle of the turnpike.
                  "The dead go fast," I heard him mutter, as I rode to his side. "I wonder if it
                     was that wretch, or his ghost?"
               
               
                  V. CAPTAIN BLOUNT.
                  THE officer who had come so opportunely to our assistance was Captain Blount,
                     one of the most daring Partisans of the war.
                  I had met Captain Blount incidentally in 1863, and, as we slowly rode back now
                     together toward Millwood, I looked with interest at a man of whom I had heard
                     so much.
                  He appeared to be between twenty-five and thirty; his figure was graceful; his
                     seat in the saddle perfect; his countenance full of unassuming courtesy, and
                     the expression of his eyes soft, pensive, almost sad. It was difficult to
                     recognize in this mild and retiring personage, so cordial and gentle, the hero
                     of a hundred desperate encounters. Of his skill as a swordsman, I had, however,
                     witnessed a striking evidence. In the pursuit through Millwood he had crossed
                     swords with a Federal officer who was evidently an accomplished sabreur; fought hilt to hilt with him, in single
                     combat, for nearly ten minutes; and finally killed his adversary by driving his
                     sabre, at tierce point, through him from breast to back. The officer had thown up his arms,
                     reeled and fallen. Blount continued the pursuit; only his sabre was bloody.
                  Returning now, after this hard work, nothing could be imagined more simple and
                     unassuming than his bearing. But a spectacle which greeted us near the village
                     made the mild eye flash. The Federal troopers had picketed their horses to the
                     fence around the grounds of the little church, nestling amid its green trees,
                     laid waste the grounds, broken open the sacred edifice, and torn to pieces the
                     organ.
                  Blount looked at the broken door of the church, the torn-down pews, and the
                     fragments of the organ scattered over the lawn.
                  "These are Scythians, indeed!" he muttered, quoting the words of Napoleon;
                     "there is nothing to do but to hunt down and kill every mam of them."
                  "A maxim which you religiously carry out, Blount," said Landon; "but how did
                     you happen to arrive in such good time to-night?"
                  "By accident, my dear Landon. I was going on a scout along the Opequon, when I
                     heard the firing, and thought it was you. I am glad I was near; and, as the
                     affair is over now, I believe I will go on."
                  Having uttered these words in his mild and courteous teous voice, Captain
                     Blount offered me his hand, gave me a cordial invitation to visit him when it
                     was convenient, and, after exchanging a pressure of the hand with Landon, moved
                     off with his squadron of about seventy-five men toward the Opequon.
                  I was still looking after the retreating shadows, when one of the Partisans
                     rode up, leading a magnificent bay.
                  "Here is the Yankee officer's horse, captain,—the one you knocked out of the
                     saddle," he said.
                  Landon glanced at the animal.
                  "They must have carried off the captain, but he has left his horse and his
                     papers," said the man.
                  "His papers?" said Landon, quickly.
                  The man pointed to the saddle-pockets, and drew forth a bundle of official
                     documents.
                  Landon rapidly tore them open, and glanced at them by the light of the moon.
                     His face was lost in the shadow, and I did not see its expression.
                  "Then it was not his ghost," muttered the Partisan; "and he is not dead, after
                     all!"
               
               
                  
                  VI. HOW THEY MANAGED MATTERS ON THE BORDER IN 1864.
                  LANDON had turned his horse to ride down the hill, in the direction of the
                     village, when one of his men came up rapidly, and, drawing rein at his side,
                     spoke to him in a low voice.
                  I did not catch the words, but the blood rushed suddenly to Landon's cheek.
                  "Where?" he said, abruptly.
                  "In the flat beyond the stream, captain."
                  Without a word Landon darted at full gallop down the hill, passed through
                     Millwood, and, as I reached his side in the field beyond, I saw him check his
                     horse suddenly near an oak, which stood, solitary and alone, in the open
                     ground.
                  From the boughs of this oak were hanging three corpses.
                  "Look, captain," said the man who had kept beside him; "it is Robinson,
                     Walters, and Andrews,—three of our best men."
                  Landon spurred his horse up until the animal shied violently at this near
                     approach to the fearful-looking looking objects. The three men were clad in
                     gray, and their ghastly faces were convulsed by the last agony.
                  Suddenly Landon forced his horse close to the trunk, and tore down a paper
                     which was attached to it.
                  On this paper was written, in heavy black letters:—
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Such is the fate of the Night-Hawks.
                              
                                 "By command of
                                 "CAPT. RATCLIFFE."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Landon read these words by the light of the moon, looked up at the corpses,
                     folded up the paper slowly, and, turning to the man beside him, said:—
                  "Order my command to assemble here, and bring the prisoners taken from the
                     picket at the river."
                  I had reached his side as he uttered these words, and he held out to me the
                     paper which he had taken from the tree-trunk.
                  "It is frightful," I said; "and what course will you pursue, captain?"
                  With an icy glance the Partisan replied:—
                  "The lex talionis is my code, colonel,—an eye
                     for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth."
                  As he spoke, the members of his command were seen approaching, with about a
                     dozen prisoners.
               
               
                  
                  VII. AN EYE FOR AN EYE.
                  DEATH in battle is one thing; it seems natural. Death by a military execution
                     is another thing, and seems unnatural, repulsive, and horrible. One stirs the
                     pulses, for it is tragic and terrible. The other revolts the feelings, for it
                     is disgusting.
                  Other considerations induce me to omit a minute account of the fierce spectacle
                     which I witnessed that night. "Melodrama!—claptrap!" some good people would be
                     apt to exclaim. And for fear of these terrible critics, it behoves those who
                     write their own adventures to consult the vraisemblable rather than the vrai.
                  
                  These things occurred, and will not be believed. Let me therefore pass rapidly
                     over the event of that night of 1864.
                  The prisoners were ranged in a line with the men of the band opposite, and
                     Landon sat his horse looking at the former. His face was perfectly calm, and he
                     did not utter a word. When the preparations had been made, and a sergeant had
                     reported with finger to his hat, Landon turned to me.
                  "Colonel Surry," he said, "I am glad you are here to-night and can testify to
                     what you witness. I am a regularly commissioned officer in the Confederate
                     States army; my command is a regularly enrolled company under the Partisan
                     Ranger Act of the Confederate Congress; I make open war on the enemy, under the
                     Confederate flag; and I and my men are treated, not as open enemies, but as
                     bandits. You see before you a proof of this assertion. The three men hanging
                     yonder were among the best and bravest of my command. They went out
                     yesterday,—in Confederate uniform, as you see,—to attack a wagon-train
                     belonging to Sheridan's army, were taken prisoners, and are hung here by
                     Captain Ratcliffe, of the Federal cavalry, as guerillas. I have captured
                     to-night a dozen men from Ratcliffe's command: they stand before you. What is
                     necessary to protect my men hereafter from being thus murdered in cold
                     blood?"
                  There was but one reply to make.
                  "The death of three of these prisoners," I said.
                  "You are right, colonel. I am glad we agree."
                  And, tearing a leaf from his despatch-book, Landon wrote upon it some lines;
                     the bright moonlight enabled him to do so without difficulty. He then turned to
                     Arden.
                  "Lieutenant," he said, "you will see to the execution of the following orders.
                     These prisoners will proceed to draw
                     lots; three will thus be designated, and these three will be allowed fifteen
                     minutes to perform their devotions, after which they will be shot to death. You
                     will then take down the bodies hanging yonder, remove them to Millwood, where
                     they will be placed in coffins, to await my return to-morrow, and the bodies of
                     the three prisoners will be hung in the places which my men now occupy. Lastly,
                     you will affix to the trunk of the tree beneath them the paper which I hold in
                     my hand. It contains the words:—
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "'These three men of Captain Ratcliffe's command are executed by my
                                 order, in retaliation for three of my own men, murdered in cold
                                 blood by himself.
                              
                                 "'ST. LEGER LANDON,
                                 "'Captain C.S.A."'
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Arden saluted and received the paper from the hand of Landon.
                  "For the performance of this duty," continued the Partisan, "you will detail
                     six men, and will see in person that my orders are executed. When performed,
                     report to me at the Bethel Cross Roads, where I will bivouac."
                  There was something terribly weird in these business-like and commonplace
                     details of a bloody tragedy. Landon gave his orders with the air of a man who
                     is merely following a routine as humdrum as guard-mounting, or calling the
                     roll.
                  His voice was unmoved; his countenance perfectly indifferent. Having finished,
                     he turned his horse's head toward the river, and we rode off together, followed
                     by the whole command, with the exception of the six men who remained with
                     Arden.
                  I was only too glad to leave the spot. The terrible scene about to be enacted
                     had no attractions in my eyes,—thoroughly as I approved it,—and I turned my
                     back upon the gloomy locality with a long breath of relief.
                  Landon exhibited no emotion of any description. His impassive countenance
                     revealed nothing. Riding in silence past the mill, where he paused a few
                     moments to look after the wounded carried thither, and to give orders for their
                     transfer in safety beyond the Ridge, he turned into the road by which Blount
                     had come to his assistance, and, going half a mile, halted in a little wood
                     near a cross roads.
                  Suddenly, as the column halted, three shots resounded from the direction of
                     Millwood. I could not suppress a shudder at that sound, which indicated that
                     three human beings had passed from time to eternity.
                  I looked at Landon. His countenance was entirely unmoved.
                  
                  "Put out videttes," he said, in a calm voice, to a sergeant, "and tell the men
                     to unsaddle."
                  Half an hour afterwards I had wrapped my cape around me, and fallen asleep,
                     worn out with fatigue, beneath a tree.
                  Such were the events of my first night on the Shenandoah.*
                  
                  
                     *This incident is real.
                  
               
               
                  VIII. THE NIGHT MARCH.
                  THE beams of the September sun, darting from the summit of the Blue Ridge, and
                     turning the dewy leaves to molten gold, awoke me.
                  Landon was already up, and the men were busy around their bivouac fires,
                     preparing breakfast. It was a plain but excellent meal, and having finished I
                     rose to depart.
                  "Then you will not stay and attend the burial of my poor fellows to-night,
                     colonel?"
                  "The burial to-night, captain?"
                  "Yes, I regard it as a duty I owe them. They were brave and faithful soldiers,
                     and deserve something more than to be thrown into the first ditch by the
                     roadside. God willing, no man of my command shall be thus treated; and I intend
                     to bury these three in the Old Chapel graveyard, about three miles from
                     Millwood, on the road to Berryville. I should like to do so by daylight; but a
                     strong force is camped near the Chapel, and it is impossible."
                  "You will go to-night?"
                  
                  "To-night, and as quietly as possible. Will you accompany us?"
                  The expedition strangely attracted me. That love of adventure which all men
                     possess, surrounded this nocturnal march in the performance of a pious duty,
                     with an irresistible charm.
                  "I will go with you, captain," I said, "but will first make a visit to a friend
                     near White Post. Will I find you here at sunset?"
                  "Then, or soon afterwards. I am going on a reconnoissance toward the Chapel,
                     and will have returned by that time."
                  "Good! I will be punctual." And, exchanging a pressure of the hand with my
                     host, I set off to make my visit.
                  That visit has no connection with the present history, and I shall not dwell
                     upon it. Punctually at sunset I was again in sight of the cross roads, and
                     found the command, with the exception of Landon and one or two of the men, at
                     the same spot in the woods which they had occupied on the preceding night.
                  The scene was picturesque. The red light of sunset fell upon a little glade in
                     the forest, and, grouped beneath a tall oak, with their horses ready saddled,
                     and picketed to the boughs around, the Rangers had surrendered themselves to
                     the social delights of the bivouac.
                  At the moment, the attention of all was centred upon Lieutenant Arden, who,
                     seated upon a root of the oak, with his back against the trunk, was playing
                     upon a banjo, and singing.
                  I had heard the music commence just as I turned a corner of the road, and the
                     words came clearly to me on the calm evening air. Determined not to interrupt
                     the singer, I checked my horse, remained motionless, and listened.
                  I should have expected some rude camp ballad in this bivouac of the Rangers—or,
                     if Arden sang, some stirring war lyric, full of the clash of the sabre, the
                     bang of carbines, and the ring of the bugle. What I heard was very different;
                     and, strangest of all, was listened to by the Rangers with obvious sympathy and
                     admiration. The song which the young sabreur
                     sang—this youth who had proved himself a veritable firebrand on the preceding
                     evening, cutting more than one man out of the saddle—was the following:—
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "ARDEN'S SONG.
                              
                                 "On the Shenandoah the rose is in bloom,
                                 And the oriole sings in the sycamore-tree;
                                 And Annie—I ask myself all the day long—
                                 If Annie is thinking of me!
                              
                              
                                 "Alone in my tent on the Rapidan,
                                 I fancy the wind in the dreamy pines
                                 Is the sigh of the mountain evergreens
                                 By the ford in the Yankee lines!
                              
                              
                              
                                 "Bloom on, sweet roses of other years!
                                 Sing, oriole gay, in the sycamore-tree!
                                 Past the Rapidan and the Blue Ridge wave
                                 Is the face that I long to see!
                              
                              
                                 "Ring out, silver bugle, the signal of strife!
                                 Spur, sabre, and stirrup, clank merry and free!
                                 To horse! I am coming!—and then I shall know
                                 If Annie is dreaming of me!"
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  As the sweet and tender accents of the youthful voice died away, I cried
                     "Bravo!" and the Rangers started up. I approached, and received a cordial
                     greeting; after which Lieutenant Arden made room for me on the root beside him,
                     and I requested him to go on.
                  "I was only singing the boys a little song of mine," he said, with a blush and
                     a laugh; "they pretend that they like it, but their real favorites are 'Johnny,
                     fill up the Bowl,' and 'Jine the Cavalry.'"
                  With these words, Arden handed the banjo to one of the men, who sang in
                     succession that lively ditty, commencing:— 
                        
                           "We were ordered to charge and not to stop,
                           And we charged right into a whiskey shop!
                           We'll all drink stone blind,
                           Johnny, fill up the bowl!"
                        
                     
                  
                  And then the famous song, so loved by Stuart:—
                        
                           "If you want to have a good time,
                           Jine the cavalry!
                           Bully boys, hey!"
                        
                     
                  
                  Have you ever heard those wonderful lyrics, my dear reader? If not, I should
                     like to quote them, which I assure you I could do without missing a single
                     word. I should like especially to record the latter, that great comic Iliad of
                     the sabreurs of Stuart; to lay before you in
                     full, the most popular of all the cavalry ballads of the war. But, alas! to
                     give the mere words would be to offer you a withered flower, from which the
                     colour and perfume had fled. It would be nothing—this famous ditty—without the
                     tune, without the banjo, without the foliage above, and the fires of the
                     bivouac glimmering near.
                  The performer executed it admirably, and the Rangers joined rapturously in the
                     chorus. The woods rang; the very horses turned their heads, and the men
                     starting to their feet, began to dance to the uproarious strumming, above which
                     rose the gay cavalry chorus. Altogether the scene was indescribable for its
                     grotesque merriment; the Rangers had surrendered themselves to a mirth which
                     passed all bounds.
                  It was in the very midst of the revelry that the sound of horses' hoofs was
                     heard, and Landon appeared at the turn of the road, accompanied by
                     Touch-and-go. As Arden saw him, he extended his hand toward the performer on the banjo, buckled
                     on his sabre, and gave the order:—
                  "Prepare to mount!"
                  At that command the merriment ceased as if by magic. The men ran to their
                     horses, and, at a second order from Arden, mounted and formed column. The young
                     man then rode up to Landon, made the military salute, and said:—
                  "Ready, captain!"
                  Landon saluted in return, pressed my hand cordially, and, running his keen eye
                     along the column, placed himself at the head, and gave successively the
                     orders:—
                  "Unfurl the flag!" and "Forward!"
                  The red flag was unfurled, the column moved, and, at a steady pace, went back
                     over the road by which we had reached the bivouac on the preceding evening.
                  Ere long the houses of Millwood appeared, embowered in trees, and, in the waste
                     ground in front, rose the great oak.
                  As we passed, I turned my head, and looked at it. From the boughs, in place of
                     the dead Confederates, hung the three Federal cavalrymen executed on the
                     preceding evening. Against the trunk of the tree something glimmered in the
                     moonlight. It was the paper stating the grounds upon which the death penalty
                     had been inflicted.
                  Habituated as I had long been to the horrours of war, the three ghastly figures
                     were appalling. There was something gloomy and lugubrious in their outlines, as
                     they dangled from the great oak, illumined by the moon; the spectacle was
                     tragic and terrible.
                  As Landon rode by, I saw him look at them, and tried to discover in his
                     countenance some traces of emotion. There were none whatever. He gazed at the
                     ghastly figures with an expression of entire indifference, and his face had the
                     cold, hard look which characterized it invariably when in repose. Was there any
                     feeling under that mask? I know not. Men's faces are bad indices. Suffering
                     hardens, and stamps a gloomy impress on the very muscles at length; and under
                     that frozen surface thoughts come and go as the tide does beneath the ice,
                     without moving the hard crust.
                  Landon rode on without uttering a word, and passing through the little stream,
                     over which some tall trees leaned, we entered the village of Millwood, which
                     the superb moonlight bathed in its mellow splendour.
                  The bodies of the three Confederates awaited us in rude pine coffins, deposited
                     in a light wagon ready to move. On the coffins some young ladies had placed
                     wreaths and garlands of autumn flowers; and, as we appeared, more than one fair
                     figure, glimmering in the moonlight, raised a white handkerchief to her eyes; more than one sob was uttered by
                     those standing beside the coffins.
                  Landon saluted, but did not open his lips. At a sign from him, the men ranged
                     themselves in front; the wagon moved; and the funeral cortege, with the red
                     flag borne in front, ascended the hill, proceeding slowly in the direction of
                     the Old Chapel.
                  I shall never forget that strange night march. The little band of Rangers,
                     going to bury their dead comrades by moonlight, presented a solemn and moving
                     spectacle, and the landscape was in unison with the occasion. The chill wind of
                     the September night sighed through the great oaks, and the moon shone with a
                     dreamy and memorial splendour, lighting up the highway, the trees, the modest
                     little church on its grassy slope, and the hamlet nestling down behind us, amid
                     the autumn foliage. The band moved slowly on; scarce a hoof-stroke was heard;
                     and the men resembled rather so many silent phantoms than human beings. It was,
                     in truth, a strange scene, and a stranger errand. We were going thus, under
                     cover of darkness, to give our poor, dead comrades Christian burial in holy
                     ground, because we could not do so by day, for fear of interruption. Even now,
                     amid the shadows of night, it was possible that some eye would spy us; some
                     enemy interrupt us—and then we must fight. A fight over graves! The living must
                     fall, that the dead might be buried!—the dead burying the dead!
                  We entered a forest, emerged into the open country beyond, and, ascending a
                     lofty hill, were within a mile of the chapel.
                  "I think we will have to fight, colonel," said Landon, by whose side I was
                     riding. "There is a heavy force of cavalry just this side of Berryville, and a
                     picket at the Chapel. I reconnoitred this morning in person."
                  "In that case you will attack?"
                  "Yes, I am determined to bury my poor fellows yonder in spite of them."
                  As Landon spoke, a shot was heard in front, and then another quickly following
                     the first.
                  "That is bad," said the Partisan. "Touch-and-go must have run into them
                     unawares."
                  "You sent him on ahead?"
                  "Yes, to discover if any change had taken place in the position of the
                     picket."
                  And, turning round, Landon said in his clear, low voice:—
                  "Halt the column."
                  At the word it halted, the men remaining motionless on the slope.
                  All at once muffled hoof-strokes were heard approaching across the wide field
                     on our left. Then a figure appeared advancing on a fleet horse in the dim light. It was Touch-and-go, and in an
                     instant he was beside Landon.
                  "Well?" said the latter, briefly.
                  "No change in the picket, captain," was the low reply of the scout; "it is
                     still on the hill above the Chapel."
                  "You ran into the outer picket?"
                  "Against one of the videttes, captain. He was completely hidden in the
                     sycamores near the Chapel fence, within a hundred yards of the main body, and
                     before I knew it he fired on me."
                  "Unlucky."
                  "Sorry, captain, but really I could not help it. Who would have expected to
                     find a vidette hidden there?"
                  And an expression of quiet contempt came to Touch-and-go's face.
                  "He fired, and turned to run back; but I put a bullet through him, and he threw
                     up his arms. I then jumped the fence, and came back to report."
                  Landon reflected an instant.
                  "You turned to the left?"
                  "Yes, captain."
                  "Good! that will do. I will attack in front, and from the right yonder.
                     Lieutenant Arden!"
                  The young lieutenant rode up and saluted.
                  "I am going to attack the picket, lieutenant. You will take twelve men and gain
                     that wood yonder der on our right, so as to be able to strike the enemy in
                     flank and rear. I will go on, on this road. The signal of your attack will be
                     firing in front. Move quickly, but quietly. I shall break them by a charge with
                     the sabre, and expect to meet you on the hill, lieutenant, when we will drive
                     them."
                  "All right, captain; it shall be done."
                  And, with an animated face, the young officer returned to his men, took twelve,
                     and moved off rapidly, but silently, over the field on the right.
                  Landon then rode forward, inviting me to follow him.
                  "Arden will require a little time," he said; "and we will take a look at the
                     ground, colonel. It is picturesque."
                  We had left the highway, on both sides of which the fences were torn down, and
                     the turf over which we advanced gave back no echo. Five minutes' ride brought
                     us to the summit of a hill, and from this hill we had a view of the Old Chapel,
                     which lay immediately in front of us.
                  It was an ancient edifice of plain gray stone nestling in a sort of
                     amphitheatre of hills, dotted with country seats. Near it ran a little stream
                     skirted with sycamores, which extended also upon each side of the highway,
                     forming a vault of foliage above. Beyond the sycamores some weeping willows
                     waved their tassels in the wind, and beneath these glimmered mered in the moonlight the white tombstones of
                     the tranquil country graveyard.
                  It seemed like a blot upon the lovely landscape,—that dusky mass of horsemen on
                     the hill beyond. Upon this commanding point the officer of the picket had taken
                     up his position, to observe the main highway over which we were advancing, and
                     a second road, which, forking at the Chapel, ran across our left, in the
                     direction of White Post.
                  Landon gazed in silence for some moments toward the picket.
                  "The very worst place I know for an attack," he said; "but I count on
                     Arden,—and my first charge will drive them. Come, colonel," he added, turning
                     his horse rapidly, "I never see such game as is yonder before us, on the hill,
                     without feeling like giving the view-halloo!"
                  "You are far from complimentary, captain," I said laughing; "you compare our
                     friends to foxes."
                  "You are right, colonel," said Landon; "they are wolves."
               
               
                  IX. THE OLD CHAPEL.
                  IN a few minutes we had rejoined the band. At a sign from Landon the men moved
                     obliquely into the grassy field where the turf muffled the hoof-strokes and
                     sound of wheels.
                  "No noise," said Landon, in a low tone; "wait for the word."
                  And, placing himself in front, he drew his sabre, and advanced rapidly toward
                     the Chapel.
                  Suddenly, as they approached the sycamore screen near the low fence, a blue
                     horseman, evidently an officer, galloped out, and cried:—
                  "What command is that?"
                  "I will show you," returned Landon.
                  And, with a whirl of the sabre, he shouted:—
                  "Charge!"
                  At the word the men uttered a yell, dug the spur into their horses, and,
                     passing like a tornado beneath the vault of foliage, rushed up the hill, firing
                     a volley as they did so into the picket. They then closed in with the sabre,
                     and an obstinate combat, hand to hand, followed. It was a weird affair. The moonlight lit up every figure, and
                     the very expressions of the combatants' faces were clearly visible as they
                     fought hilt to hilt.
                  Landon had only half surprised them, and nothing but his desperate fighting
                     made the result doubtful. The enemy were closing around him; his horse, shot
                     through the head, was staggering, and on the point of hurling his rider beneath
                     the trampling hoofs, when suddenly a volley resounded from the enemy's rear,
                     and Arden, at the head of his horsemen, darted upon them with the drawn
                     sabre.
                  The result was such as almost invariably follows a surprise. The Federal
                     cavalry gave back, scattered in every direction, and retreated, pursued by the
                     Partisans, at whose head was Landon, mounted on a captured horse, and cutting
                     down everything in his path.
                  The pursuit continued for half a mile, when a shrill whistle resounded, and the
                     men quickly drew rein. That whistle was Landon's signal, as it was Colonel
                     Mosby's, to "rally on the Chief," as is the cavalry phrase.
                  In a few minutes the larger portion of the band had assembled on the hill near
                     the Chapel, and every man was accompanied by horses and prisoners.
                  Landon called to Arden, and the young man hastened up.
                  "Send the prisoners and horses to the rear, without out delay, lieutenant, and
                     detail a party to dig the graves!" he said.
                  Arden saluted, and rapidly issued the necessary orders, after which he galloped
                     back.
                  "Deploy the men as skirmishers, and take charge of the left, Arden," the
                     Partisan said; "I will stay on the right. We are going to be attacked, as the
                     alarm is given by this time at the camp of the brigade. Be steady, Arden; hold
                     your ground I am not going away from here until my men are buried!"
                  "You can count on me, captain!" exclaimed the youth.
                  "I know it."
                  And Landon drew up his men on the hill, the delighted Arden hastening off to
                     take command of those on the left.
                  What followed, exhibited the discernment of the Partisan. In twenty minutes a
                     dark mass appeared coming from the direction of Berryville, and all along the
                     line of sharpshooters resounded the crack of carbines.
                  From the summit of the hill I then witnessed a curious—what the novelists would
                     call a "dramatic"—spectacle. In the graveyard, near the great weeping willows,
                     I could perceive the dusky figures of the men digging the graves of their dead
                     comrades, while from the field in front came the incessant report of fire-arms. The enemy were
                     feeling their way, not knowing the force opposed to them, and evidently fearing
                     an ambuscade. Their advance was thus slow, and the steady fire kept up along
                     his whole front by Landon, evidently puzzled them. Nearly an hour thus passed.
                     Finally a man rode up from the graveyard, and reported that the graves were
                     finished.
                  "Good!" exclaimed Landon; and galloping to the spot where Arden was fighting,
                     he said:—
                  "Keep up a steady fire, lieutenant, and if you are forced back, retire slowly.
                     I will be back in fifteen minutes."
                  And, requesting me to follow, he turned his horse and went at a gallop back to
                     the graveyard, the low wall of which his horse cleared at a bound. The graves
                     were dug; the three coffins lay beside them. It was a singular interment I was
                     about to witness on this moonlight night, with that incessant report of
                     carbines resounding beyond the crest; those bullets rattling against the gray
                     old church, or hissing angrily through the pendant tassels of the weeping
                     willows.
                  Landon threw himself from his horse and looked at the graves. They were wide
                     and deep.
                  "Good!" he said; "are the ropes ready?"
                  "All ready, captain," replied one of the men.
                  "Lower the coffins!"
                  The ropes were rapidly inserted beneath them, and the three coffins deposited
                     in the graves.
                  Landon had folded his arms, and an expression of profound sadness veiled the
                     clear light of his dark eyes. Turning to me, he said:—
                  "This is hard, colonel. Those people yonder grudge us even the few feet of
                     earth we occupy in death; and we are obliged to bury our brave comrades thus at
                     night, and by stealth. But I do my best,—the soldier's salute will be fired
                     over their graves. God will pardon us, I hope, for having no funeral service
                     read, seeing that we are fighting yonder to keep off the enemy."
                  "I will read the service," said a low voice behind us.
               
               
                  
                  X. WHY I DID NOT RETURN WITH LANDON.
                  I TURNED quickly.
                  Within three paces stood a young lady of slender and graceful figure,
                     exquisitely fair complexion, large, brilliant eyes, and dark auburn hair, a few
                     stray ringlets of which escaped from one of those small, round hats worn in
                     1864.
                  The figure drooped; the eyes were swimming in tears; but there was something
                     calm and proud in the countenance, which indicated an entire absence of
                     anything like fear.
                  For an instant every one gazed at her in silence. How could she have reached
                     that spot without our knowledge? A glance indicated all. Upon a flat tombstone,
                     half hidden behind the trunk of the willow, lay a veil. It was evident that the
                     young lady had witnessed all from that spot, the drooping leaves of the weeping
                     willow concealing her.
                  "I will read the burial service," she said, in a low voice, and advancing
                     toward the graves. "I have my prayer-book, and am not afraid."
                  There was something proud and tranquil in those low tones; and the voice, like
                     the face, made a profound impression upon me.
                  I looked at Landon. He had become extremely pale, but exhibited, otherwise, no
                     emotion.
                  Making the young lady a profound bow, he said, with frigid courtesy:—
                  "I thank you, Miss Adair; this is an unexpected meeting."
                  "Yes, sir, my appearance no doubt astonished you," came in the same calm tone,
                     though the bullets were whistling above; "and yet it is easily explained. You
                     are aware that I live near, and this evening I walked down by moonlight to
                     visit the Chapel. When the fight took place I stayed, and when the men begun to
                     dig the graves for these poor soldiers, I thought I might be allowed to read
                     the service over them. Was I wrong, sir? 'Tis little for a woman to do for her
                     defenders."
                  Landon listened to these words in the profoundest silence; but it was easy to
                     see from his compressed lips that he was the prey of bitter emotion.
                  "Thanks, madam," he said, when she had finished, and saluting as coldly as
                     before. "I accept your offer."
                  For an instant she did not move, and her eyes were riveted to his
                     countenance.
                  "Captain Landon," she said, at length, "I wish to speak to you for a
                     moment."
                  
                  And she walked away from the group, Landon following. When they had gone a few
                     paces, I heard her say to him, in a low voice:—
                  "You look at me very coldly: why do you do so? We cannot be friends, but we
                     need not be enemies. I have no bitterness in my heart. I have forgotten the
                     past. At the graves of these poor dead, I pardon all."
                  "Ah! Miss Adair has forgotten; she pardons!"
                  The low words were accompanied by a harsh laugh, full of bitter irony.
                  "From my heart," was the sad reply.
                  Landon rose to his full stature, and, in a voice full of coldness, almost of
                     sarcasm, said:—
                  "Miss Adair is too good."
                  The young lady's head rose suddenly erect at these words, and I read in her
                     face, covered now with a deep flush, an expression of hauteur which surpassed
                     that of her companion.
                  "Enough, sir!" she said; "I will not further annoy you."
                  And, turning from him, she was about to leave the spot. All at once, however,
                     her eyes fell upon the coffins—the graves. That spectacle seemed to melt all
                     her pride, and drive away every trace of anger. She stopped—gazed at the
                     coffins—then her head sank, and I heard a low sob issue from her lips.
                  "Why do you speak to me so?" she murmured, hurriedly, turning to Landon. "Is it
                     kind? Is it courteous? Should not I speak thus to you, rather? I knew a St.
                     Leger Landon, once, who—alas! war has changed you, sir."
                  And she covered her eyes with her hand.
                  Before Landon could reply, a cheer rang beyond the crest. A shower of bullets
                     whistled above us The enemy were evidently advancing.
                  "Miss Adair will pardon me," said the Partisan, coldly, "but I must bury my
                     comrades; all is ready."
                  She replied by a calm inclination, raised a handkerchief to her eyes, and in a
                     moment they had returned to the graves.
                  Then I witnessed a strange and moving spectacle, which I shall never forget,—a
                     young girl was reading by moonlight the burial service over the dead. The pen
                     is powerless to depict the pathetic scene, and I should like to be a painter to
                     place those figures upon canvas,—the rudely clad Partisans, bareheaded, and
                     leaning upon their carbines; Landon, with folded arms, and chin resting on his
                     breast; at the head of the graves, the delicate girl with the ringlets falling
                     upon her shoulders, the pure eyes fixed upon the book from which she was
                     reading, the lips unagitated by the least tremour as she slowly uttered the
                     sublime words of that unapproachable burial service of the Episcopal Church.
                     Imagine these figures grouped in the
                     moonlight, with the weeping willow for a background, by those "unknown graves,"
                     as they are called to-day, add the hiss of bullets, the shouts from the crest
                     of the hill, and you will have formed some idea of the scene on that September
                     night.
                  The young lady's voice did not tremble; her bearing never lost its sweet
                     composure. At last the burial service terminated, and the musical accents died
                     away. Then the earth rattled on the coffins, quick hands filled the graves, and
                     the three mounds rounded beneath the spade.
                  Scarcely had the work been completed, when a mounted man came at full gallop
                     down the hill, and hastened to the side of Landon.
                  "Well!" said the latter, in his brief tones.
                  "The enemy are driving us, captain. Lieutenant Arden told me to say that they
                     are two or three regiments at least, and he won't be able to hold his ground
                     more than ten minutes!"
                  "Good! say I am coming!" And Landon leaped on his horse. All at once his eye
                     fell upon the young lady, and he paused. Then he said, quietly:—
                  "Colonel Surry, will you oblige me by conducting Miss Adair beyond reach of
                     danger? That is her father's house on the hill;" he pointed as he spoke to a
                     mansion within view; "and she ought not to remain here, as we will be fighting
                     at this spot in five minutes."
                  "I am not afraid," said the young lady in a perfectly composed voice.
                  "I beg Miss Adair will accede to my request," said Landon, coolly; "and that
                     you, colonel, will oblige me. You can rejoin me at Millwood. I do not mean to
                     make any stand here. My object is accomplished, and I am going to fall back,
                     whether driven or not."
                  With these words Landon bowed to the young lady, and, clearing the fence,
                     galloped up the hill.
                  Suddenly Arden met him, falling back rapidly. The crest of the hill swarmed
                     with blue cavalry, firing quick volleys, and uttering loud cheers as the
                     rangers doggedly gave ground. There was nothing for me to do but to conduct the
                     young lady from the dangerous spot, or simply join in the retreat, and I chose
                     the former. Throwing my cape over my horse, behind the saddle, I mounted,
                     assisted her to her seat, and we galloped off in the midst of a shower of
                     bullets, hissing like winged serpents around us.*
                  
                  
                     *A fact.
                  
                  "Are you afraid?" I said.
                  "Not at all, sir."
                  And the speaker plainly was not.
                  We leaped a low fence, passed across a field, and ascended at full gallop a
                     slope beyond.
                  
                  From this elevated position I saw all. Landon's men were giving back step by
                     step before enormous odds. The ground around the Old Chapel was full of
                     clashing sabres, trampling hoofs, and quick shots flashing like fireflies
                     against the dark foliage of the willows.
                  Then suddenly, as it were by enchantment, the swords ceased to clash, the hoofs
                     to trample, and the shots to resound. All I heard was an occasional shout, and
                     the stifled hum of a large force of Federal cavalry, drawn up in a long, dark
                     column on the slope of the hill beyond the Chapel.
                  Landon and his Night-Hawks had vanished like phantoms in the darkness.
               
               
                  XI. HOW I MISSED MY SUPPER.
                  MY situation was now peculiar.
                  The hour of the night was advanced; I was in a country nearly unknown to me,
                     and swarming with the blue people; Landon and his Rangers had disappeared, and,
                     to complicate the whole affair, I had under my charge a young lady, for whose
                     safety I felt responsible.
                  It is possible that some readers of these pages will suppose that the tableau
                     here presented of the cavalier, with his fair burden en
                        croupe, is the result of imagination. I assure them that such is
                     not the fact. The late war was a veritable repetition of the scenes of romance,
                     and I assure the reader that I actually thus heroically "carried off" a very
                     beautiful girl, with the bullets whistling around us; that her hand actually
                     rested upon my shoulder; that her ringlets, when I turned my head, nearly
                     brushed my cheek; and that, when I asked if she was afraid, she replied with
                     extreme calmness in the manner above related.
                  To continue my narrative, Miss Adair scarcely spoke during the whole ride, which was rapid,
                     however, and soon came to an end.
                  She seemed to labour under some painful emotion; and I knew afterwards that
                     this resulted from her brief interview with Landon. We went on thus in profound
                     silence almost, and soon approached the large mansion indicated by Landon.
                  It raised its walls amid deep foliage on a lofty hill, and it was plain that
                     the house and grounds had once been models of elegance. Now all was changed.
                     The fences had been torn down; the boughs of the ornamental trees were broken
                     and champed by cavalry horses, which had also trampled the fine turf, and the
                     house looked bare and melancholy. It was a specimen of the houses and grounds
                     of the entire Shenandoah Valley. Generals Hunter and Sheridan had not been able
                     to conquer,—they had destroyed. What one left, the other took. When they
                     retired, this Arcadia was a desert; the beautiful valley a Vale of
                     Jehoshaphat.
                  Miss Adair dismounted and begged me to enter. I hesitated, but, after
                     reflecting an instant, accepted the invitation; impelled, I am afraid, by two
                     ignoble sentiments,—curiosity and—hunger!
                  I am trying to paint truly the "men and manners" of the late war, my dear
                     reader; and marching and fighting made us terribly hungry!
                  It was plain that the good house had not lost the old traditions of
                     hospitality. A servant boy,—one of the few left, I fancy,—ran and took my horse
                     to the stable; and then Miss Adair ushered me into a large drawing-room,
                     illumined only by the moon.
                  As I entered, I heard a voice from the apartment opposite call out:—
                  "Is that you, my child?"
                  "Yes, father," was the reply.
                  And the young lady hastened thither, having first placed a lighted lamp upon
                     the centre-table of the drawing-room.
                  The apartment had been elegant, but now looked "torn down." At one end was a
                     bow-window, the recess half concealed by falling curtains.
                  I was gazing around me still, when the young lady came back and said:—
                  "Papa will be glad to see you, Colonel Surry. He is an invalid and cannot come
                     out. Will you go in and see him?"
                  I bowed, and, following Miss Adair, entered the chamber where a gentleman of
                     about sixty, with long gray hair, sparkling eyes, and a thin face,
                     "thorough-bred," and full of character, lay upon a sofa.
                  He received me with old school courtesy, and Miss Adair having hastened out to
                     prepare supper, I conversed for ten minutes with my host, Judge Adair, of the
                     Supreme Court of Virginia.
                  
                  If the readers of this page have seen my Memoirs, they will
                     remember, perchance, the brief sketch therein of Colonel Beverley of "The
                     Oaks,"—that ardent follower of Calhoun, and veritable firebrand of revolution.
                     Well, my dear reader, Judge Adair rather surpassed the colonel. Need I say
                     more? I had heard bitter denunciation of the North, listened to ferocious
                     diatribes upon the doings of the blue people, but they were all milk and water,
                     sugar and honey, compared with the observations of Judge Adair on that night of
                     1864!
                  For the rest I was not astonished. Will any one be? He lived in that region
                     which a hostile fate seemed to have surrendered to the furies. Outrage, insult,
                     and plunder had driven him to a species of scornful frenzy.
                  Never shall I forget that spectacle. Prostrated by sickness, unable almost to
                     raise his head, the old lion glared with his fiery eye; lamenting most, it
                     seemed, the weakness which kept his hand from the sword.
                  I will not repeat our conversation. My narrative deals with events. In the
                     midst of it, Miss Adair came in and informed me that supper was ready, and I
                     arose and followed her into the drawing-room, where an excellent repast awaited
                     me.
                  I had scarce approached the table, however, when my fair young hostess laid her
                     hand upon my arm.
                  I looked at her. Her head was turned over her shoulder, and she was listening
                     attentively.
                  Suddenly the origin of this movement was made plain to me. The quick tramp of
                     hoofs was distinguishable on the turf without; the ring of a sabre, as a
                     cavalier dismounted; and rapid steps were heard ascending the steps which led
                     to the front door of the mansion.
                  "Good heavens!" exclaimed Miss Adair, "they are Yankees, and you will be
                     captured! Come with me, Colonel Surry!"—and she almost dragged me toward the
                     recess, concealed by the curtains,—"there is no time to,—here they are!"
                  I ignobly retreated behind the curtain, and at the same moment a man entered
                     the apartment.
               
               
                  
                  XII. CAPTAIN RATCLIFFE.
                  IN the new-comer I recognized the officer whom Landon had attacked and defeated
                     near Millwood—Captain Ratcliffe, U.S.A.
                  He was about twenty-six, tall, imposing, and exceedingly handsome. A
                     magnificent beard and moustache covered half of his face; his eyes were large
                     and brilliant; and his splendid blue uniform set off the powerful figure to
                     very great advantage. Captain Ratcliffe was evidently proud of his person, and,
                     if he had left his sword and pistols behind, might have passed for a military
                     beau on a visit.
                  But he came fully armed, and the sound of voices and horses' hoofs on the lawn
                     without indicated that he had not come alone.
                  From my hiding-place I witnessed what followed.
                  The young lady remained quiet and did not respond to the bow of the
                     officer.
                  "Good-evening, Miss Adair," he said; "my visit does not seem to be agreeable to
                     you."
                  The young lady did not reply.
                  "You doubtless regard me as an intruder?"
                  No response.
                  "Ah! my uniform is hateful to you; or is it I, madam, that enjoy
                     that privilege?"
                  A growl accompanied the words. Captain Ratcliffe was evidently losing his
                     temper rapidly.
                  "Speak, I beg, madam!" he exclaimed, "unless you are dumb, or you think me
                     unworthy of your ladyship's notice!"
                  Miss Adair's eye flashed at the scornful tone of the speaker.
                  "I do not reply to you," she said, "because this visit is an intrusion, sir! If
                     I was not alone and helpless here, you would not come and force your presence
                     upon me!"
                  Ratcliffe flashed a dark look at her. Then, with a sarcastic laugh, he
                     said:—
                  "I have only dropped in to enjoy the smiles of Venus after the frowns of Mars,
                     madam. We have had a little affair to-night down yonder at the Chapel,—and by
                     the by, we defeated and put to flight your dear friend Landon, of the
                     Night-Hawks. He had the imprudence to attack us with about two hundred men; we
                     had only about a hundred; and in half an hour we had the valiant jayhawker
                     running."
                  "I was near," said Miss Adair, with extreme scorn in her voice, "and saw
                     all."
                  
                  "You!" exclaimed the Federal captain.
                  "Yes, at the Chapel, sir, and I witnessed the whole engagement which you speak
                     of. Captain Landon had about twenty-five men; your picket alone was double that
                     number; he drove your picket, defeated you, and did not retire until you
                     brought up a regiment or a brigade!"
                  The calm voice, full of pride and defiance, made Ratcliffe flush with rage.
                  "Then we are babies! cowards!" he exclaimed, "and your friend is a hero!"
                  In the intonation of these words, I recognized a hatred toward Landon as
                     profound as his own for Ratcliffe.
                  "I am a coward! afraid of him! Come, acknowledge, madam, that you regard me as
                     a poltroon!"
                  She glanced through the window.
                  "Do you always go guarded in visiting ladies, sir?" she said, quietly.
                  Ratcliffe started with rage.
                  "Curse the guard!" he exclaimed, rudely. "I can take care of myself."
                  The young lady's lip moved slightly.
                  "And yet you Federal gentlemen always come attended thus, sir."
                  Ratcliffe scowled at the speaker, and said:—
                  "Do you think I am afraid?"
                  "You are the best judge of that, sir," was the young lady's reply.
                  Ratcliffe uttered a species of growl, and, turning abruptly, called:—
                  "Orderly!"
                  A boy of eighteen appeared at the door and saluted. He was elegantly clad, and
                     his countenance was one of extraordinary beauty.
                  "Order the men to retire to camp!" exclaimed Ratcliffe.
                  The boy saluted, but stood still, his eyes fixed upon Miss Adair. A strange
                     expression had come to them; they seemed to blaze.
                  "What are you staying for?" growled the officer.
                  "Shall I go too?" said the boy in a voice full of music.
                  "You?—certainly!"
                  "I thought as I was your orderly, Captain—"
                  He paused; they exchanged a glance; and Ratcliffe said:—
                  "Well, remain; but send the company back to camp."
                  The boy disappeared, and in five minutes I heard the tramp of hoofs, which
                     gradually receded and died away.
                  Then the young orderly again made his appearance, and said in the same musical
                     voice:—
                  "The men are gone, captain."
                  
                  As he spoke, I observed again the strange expression of his eyes, as he gazed
                     at Miss Adair.
                  "Good!" said Ratcliffe; "wait outside."
                  And he made an imperious gesture. In spite of it the boy lingered, and it was
                     only when Ratcliffe directed toward him a look full of menace that he sullenly
                     obeyed.
                  The officer turned to Miss Adair.
                  "I am alone now, madam," he said, frowning.
                  "With a young girl only," she replied.
                  "A young girl and a gentleman!"
                  I laid my hand upon my pistol.
                  "Your beloved Landon," Ratcliffe sneered, "and his jayhawkers—the cowardly
                     scoundrels!—may be away; but where is your father?"
                  "Here!" a voice said.
                  And, limping forward on his crutch, the old cavalier, with fiery eyes, and gray
                     hair streaming over his shoulders, entered the apartment.
                  He advanced straight toward Ratcliffe, who gazed at him sullenly.
                  "Call St. Leger Landon a coward in my presence again!" exclaimed the old
                     gentleman, "and I will cram the words down your dastardly throat!"
                  Ratcliffe recoiled, and made a movement to draw his pistol.
                  Before he could grasp it, I reached his side at one bound, placed my own weapon
                     close to his breast, and ordered:—
                  "Surrender, or you are dead!"
                  Never shall I forget the expression of his countenance, the sudden pallor, the
                     profound surprise, and his unnerved look, as he staggered back.
                  "Unbuckle your belt," I said.
                  He ground his teeth and obeyed.
                  "Throw your arms on that floor."
                  Without a word he threw down sabre and pistol, and they fell with a clatter
                     upon the carpet at his feet.
                  Suddenly, as the sound echoed through the house, the young orderly appeared at
                     the door.
                  "Surrender!" I said, pointing my pistol at his head.
                  His reply was a military one. He drew his pistol and fired at me. I returned
                     the shot with equal non-success; and, seeing that he had missed me, the orderly
                     disappeared at one bound, leaped on his horse, and vanished in the
                     darkness.
                  There was now but one course left me,—to get away before the arrival of the men
                     to whom the orderly would give the alarm. I intended, for the rest, to have
                     Captain Ratcliffe for a travelling companion, and I found little difficulty in
                     persuading him of the prudence of obeying.
                  My horse was quickly brought. I directed Ratcliffe cliffe to mount; and saluting Judge Adair and
                     his daughter, set out rapidly on the White Post road.
                  I held Ratcliffe's bridle in my left hand; with the right I directed a pistol
                     at his breast.
                  He made no sort of resistance, and we went on at full speed through the
                     moonlight.
               
               
                  XIII. A MOONLIGHT RIDE.
                  IT was a singular ride.
                  For half a mile not a word was exchanged; the soft road deadened the sound of
                     the horses' hoofs; animals and riders might have been taken, in the weird
                     moonlight, for phantoms.
                  I continued to direct my pistol at Ratcliffe's breast, and to hold the bridle
                     of his horse.
                  Going on thus rapidly, we crossed a little stream and entered a forest, through
                     which the moonlight scarcely penetrated sufficiently to indicate the road.
                  All at once it occurred to me that we might run into a Federal picket, and I
                     said:—
                  "Is there a picket near here, Captain Ratcliffe?"
                  He made no reply.
                  "I ask you if there is a picket in these woods?"
                  He preserved the same sullen silence, and I began to lose my temper.
                  Leaning over, and placing the muzzle of my pistol close to his head, I
                     said:—
                  "You will reply to my question!"
                  "There is no picket anywhere here," he growled.
                  
                  "Good!" I said. "It seems to me you might have given a civil answer to a civil
                     question at first, sir."
                  All at once I saw him turn his head and listen; I imitated the worthy, and
                     heard distinctly the sound of hoofs coming on behind us,—the horses evidently
                     at a headlong gallop.
                  I could see Ratcliffe's face flush in the moonlight, and an instant afterward
                     he attempted a ruse to escape.
                  We were passing at full speed over the narrow woodland road, and had much
                     difficulty in avoiding the trees. As we approached one nearly in the middle of
                     the road, I felt Ratcliffe gradually oblique his horse to the left, and all at
                     once the aim of this manœuvre became apparent. If he could pass just to the
                     left of the tree, while I passed to the right, I would necessarily be compelled
                     to release my hold upon his bridle, and then, by suddenly wheeling his horse,
                     he might escape.
                  Unfortunately for him, I divined his intention. I allowed him to oblique more
                     and more to the left,—the tree was now within a few feet of us, and the animals
                     were about to pass to the right and left of it,—when I suddenly drew
                     Ratcliffe's bridle violently toward me, and passed with him close
                     to the tree, and on the right of it.
                  The consequence was that his knee struck the trunk, his boot was nearly torn
                     from his leg, and he uttered a deep groan.
                  "Another attempt of that sort and you are dead!" I said.
                  "You would fire on an unarmed prisoner, then?" he muttered.
                  "Attempting escape? yes. Try it, try it, my dear Captain Ratcliffe! Your
                     friends yonder are gaining on us."
                  He turned his head and the flush of hope deepened. That made the blood mount to
                     my own brain.
                  "They are coming! they may recapture you. I would much rather have them
                     recapture your dead body."
                  But bad fortune was in store for me. As I spoke, my horse ran in the darkness
                     against a sharp granite ledge cropping out from the bank, staggered, and, going
                     ten paces, reeled and fell with me.
                  As he did so, I heard a loud cheer behind, and the pursuing party came on like
                     a thunder-gust.
                  I rose quickly from my struggling horse. I had never released my clutch on
                     Ratcliffe's bridle.
                  "Dismount!" I shouted, putting my pistol to his breast, "or—"
                  He did not let me finish. In half a second he had thrown himself from the
                     saddle, and I vaulted into his place just as the pursuers rushed on,
                        shouting ing and firing. I did not
                     tarry. Burying the spur in Ratcliffe's horse, which was an excellent animal, I
                     went on at full speed; heard the men behind me draw rein a few moments, and
                     shout to Ratcliffe; then they came on again upon my track.
                  But the delay had saved me. Arrested by the fallen horse in the middle of the
                     road, the party had stopped for two or three minutes: those minutes I had
                     utilized to their utmost. I now turned into a woodland path on the right, which
                     I followed at the utmost speed of my horse, and then I had the great
                     satisfaction of hearing the Federal cavalry rush by on the road which I had
                     left.
                  Their prey had escaped.
               
               
                  XIV. ARDEN'S SECRET.
                  SUCH had been the result of my ride with Landon to the Old Chapel. I had
                     witnessed an animated skirmish; been present at a night burial of the dead;
                     made the acquaintance under peculiar circumstances of a very charming young
                     lady; captured a Federal officer; narrowly escaped capture myself; and was lost
                     in the woods.
                  That was enough of adventure for one night,—was it not, reader? I thought so;
                     and all I now asked of the kind fates was a monotonous and humdrum termination
                     of this "series of events,"—permission simply to lie down with my blanket
                     around me, and sleep tranquilly, with "none to make me afraid."
                  Man proposes only. This night was not to pass away without something more to
                     remember.
                  I was now in the midst of the woods, not far from the Federal lines, and the
                     bridle path which I followed might lead me straight into a "Yankee picket." I
                     went on, however, keeping a good lookout; and at last reached a road which I at
                        once recognized as the Old County
                     Road, from Millwood to Winchester.
                  I had scarcely debouched from the forest, when a horseman, lost in the shadow
                     of a great oak, called out suddenly:—
                  "Halt!"
                  The click of a pistol followed.
                  "Who goes there?" said the voice.
                  "Your comrade, lieutenant," I replied, for I had recognized the voice of Arden.
                     And I rode to meet him.
                  "Colonel Surry?"
                  "In person, my dear Arden."
                  And I gave him an account of my adventures. The youth laughed heartily,
                     congratulated me on my escape, and then said:—
                  "Well, Landon is beyond Millwood in bivouac, and I am going on a little
                     scout."
                  I thought I saw the youth blush in the moonlight as he spoke.
                  "Ah! a scout," I said, laughing, as we rode on toward Winchester.
                  "To see a friend—"
                  And Arden certainly blushed this time.
                  "Good!" I cried. "I think I know the name of your friend, my dear Arden."
                  "Impossible!"
                  "Her name is Miss Annie."
                  "What an idea, colonel!"
                  But the laugh of boyish pleasure revealed all.
                  "My guess is a natural one."
                  "Natural?" 
                        
                           "'And Annie—I ask myself all the day long,
                           If Annie is thinking of me,'"
                        
                      was my reply, with a smile.
                  Arden blushed and again laughed.
                  "Don't think I make fun of you," I said; "by no means, my dear Arden. It is
                     good to love, and, although our acquaintance is short, I take a very sincere
                     interest in you. I have seen you fighting, and in bivouac too, and I would like
                     to call you friend, if you will let me."
                  The words evidently won his heart.
                  "I am proud to think you wish to," he said, with boyish candor and earnestness;
                     "and now I will not conceal anything from you, colonel. You laugh; but you do
                     not seem to laugh at people."
                  Acknowledge, reader, that the compliment was charming.
                  "Then it is really Miss Annie you are going to see?"
                  "Yes, colonel."
                  "Your cousin, or playmate in childhood, doubtless?"
                  "Oh! no; I am not of this country."
                  
                  "You are not a Virginian?"
                  "I am a Yankee," said Arden, smiling; "that is to say, I was born in
                     Delaware."
                  "And came to Virginia to help us?"
                  "Not exactly, colonel. I will tell you my history in a very few words, if you
                     wish to hear it."
                  "I should like much to."
                  "Well, to begin at the beginning. I will not be tedious, and this splendid
                     moonlight night makes one feel like talking. The Ardens have lived for nearly
                     two hundred years in Delaware, and my father was for a quarter of a century one
                     of the State officers of that Commonwealth. Wealthy by inheritance, he became
                     poor, like many other gentlemen, by profuse hospitality; and his two sons—Ralph
                     and myself—saw that it was our duty to endeavour to become producers instead of
                     consumers. Well, Ralph, who was impetuous and full of energy, chose arms for
                     his profession, and at seventeen secured a place at West Point, leaving me at
                     home. I was of exactly the same age,—as Ralph and myself were twins,—and it
                     made me so ashamed to remain at home, that one day I went to my father, and
                     said, 'I wish you would let me go into a merchant's counting-house, and earn my
                     bread, sir.' But my father shook his head. 'I intend you for the law, my son,
                     and trade will spoil you,' he said. 'Then I must go somewhere and teach,' I
                     replied; 'I can do so, and study too.' To this, my father consented, and,
                     seeing the advertisement of a gentleman in the Valley here, whom he knew, my
                     father wrote to him and secured the place of teacher in his family for me. A
                     week afterwards I was in Virginia, teaching the young idea how to shoot."
                  "The name of one of the 'young ideas,'" I said, laughing, "being Miss
                     Annie."
                  Arden smiled, and shook his head.
                  "You are wrong, colonel. Of course, however, one thing brought on the other. My
                     visit to Virginia made me acquainted with—her."
                  Arden blushed a little as he pronounced the word "her," pausing before it.
                  "She lived only a mile off," he continued, "at an old house called 'The
                     Briars,' whither we are now going. Her aunt, with whom she lived, was not the
                     owner of the estate. The family to whom it belonged had moved from it, and Mrs.
                     Meadows—that was her name—was the tenant; a most excellent lady, as you will
                     have an opportunity of seeing, I hope, to-night."
                  "Well," I said, with a smile, seeing Arden pause.
                  He looked at me, blushing a little, with "What more?" plainly written in his
                     face.
                  I began to laugh.
                  "My dear Arden," I said, "this is only the preface. Tell me of your little affair! I am
                     anxious, I assure you; for nothing could be more 'dramatic' in a quiet,
                     pastoral, idylic way, than your history. Observe the 'situation,' as we say in
                     the army. You are a young gentleman of the North, and ought, by rights, to be
                     courting some little blue belle of New England, or other portions
                     of that favoured land, and in the blue army. Instead of which, see
                     what the real fact is! You are enamoured of a little lily of the Virginia
                     Valley, and an officer in the gray forces. Finish, finish! my dear
                     Arden."
                  "I see that nothing will satisfy you, colonel," he said, shyly, "but the whole
                     explanation."
                  "You are right."
                  "Well, I soon became a friend of the family and a regular visitor; and when the
                     war broke out went into the Confederate army. I beg you not to think, however,
                     that I yielded to somebody's solicitations, and joined the South against my
                     principles. No, indeed, colonel! You would do me very great injustice in
                     thinking so. My whole family are antiwar democrats, and I was raised in the
                     strictest State-rights doctrines from my childhood. 'The States are sovereign,'
                     my father had said to us a hundred times; and when South Carolina seceded in
                     the winter of 1860, he wrote to me, 'I deplore it; but peaceable secession is
                     the corner-stone of State rights.' So you see, I did not sell my sword for a
                     young lady's smile! I was too proud to do that; I should have thought it a
                     dishonour; and I would not dishonour myself, colonel, for any consideration in
                     this world! I said to myself—for she did not open her lips to me—I
                     said 'This government is either an empire, and the States are provinces, or it
                     is a league of sovereignties who have parted with a few clearly
                     defined rights only, reserving the rest. If it is an empire, secession is
                     rebellion against legally constituted authority, and calls for suppression and
                     punishment; as a rebellion in Yorkshire would be suppressed and punished. If
                     the government, on the contrary, is a league of sovereign commonwealths, then
                     secession is the exercise of a right, and to oppose it is a
                        wrong; to make war, for that reason, and force the South back
                     into a hateful union, is open tyranny,—the stronger oppressing the weaker.'
                     Well, when I reached that point, in my train of reasoning, I said to myself,
                     'What is your duty?—to aid the oppressor or the oppressed?—to offer your sword
                     to the stronger, or the weaker side?' And that question did not long puzzle
                     me."
                  I extended my hand and grasped Arden's.
                  "It was the decision of a brave gentleman, and I honour you," I said.
                  "Then you believe me?" said the young man, laughing and sighing.
                  
                  "Believe you!—"
                  "Many do not. They say, yonder in Delaware, I am told, that a young lady has
                     'demoralized' me; the war people say it, not my father."
                  "Let them say it."
                  Arden's head rose proudly.
                  "You are right, colonel. There is nothing like doing your duty. I am trying to
                     do mine, and I appeal to God for the sincerity of my convictions in this war. I
                     did not hesitate a moment. At the first sound of the trumpet I entered the
                     Confederate ranks as a private. I was young, untrained, but tried to do my
                     duty. I am not much,—a mere boy; but Captain Landon is my friend, and by his
                     partiality I have become a lieutenant,—by that only."
                  "I do not believe a word of that! I have seen you at the broadsword exercise,"
                     I said, laughing; "and your brother?"
                  "He is in the United States Army."
                  "You have seen him?"
                  "More than once, but—God be thanked!—never crossed swords with him yet."
                  "He is in the cavalry?"
                  "Yes, and what is still more, in Ratcliffe's company—a lieutenant."
                  "That is bad, indeed," I said, thinking of my own brother Will, in the Northern
                     army.
                  "Very bad."
                  "You love each other?"
                  "With all our hearts, colonel. Oh, you should know Ralph, if you admire real
                     courage, and heart, and honour! He is the coolest, bravest, noblest fellow that
                     ever lived."
                  "Pity he is not with us."
                  Arden shook his head.
                  "Ralph thinks we are a set of outrageous rebels, and would rather die than
                     change his colours.
                  "He is right."
                  "Yes; but we have made a bargain."
                  "A bargain?"
                  "Not to kill each other if possible!" said Arden, laughing.
                  And suddenly extending his hand toward a mansion buried in trees, and in sight
                     of the road:—
                  "That is her house," he said, blushing like a boy.
                  "Her" house! That told the whole story.
               
               
                  
                  XV. ARDEN "DISMOUNTS" ME.
                  ARDEN had unconsciously touched his horse with the spur, as he spoke, and we
                     cantered over the rough and unused road toward the mansion which he had pointed
                     out.
                  "That is 'The Briars,' probably," I said.
                  "Yes, colonel, one of many old mansions you have seen or passed
                     to-day,—'Chapeldale,' 'New-market,' 'The Meadow,' 'Pagebrooke,"—where something
                     of old times still lingers, Heaven be thanked! and will linger, I trust, to the
                     end of the chapter; or, during my time, at least!"
                  "Fie, Arden! You are an aristocrat, a believer in the past!"
                  "A very devout believer," said the young man, joyously. "You uphold
                        class,—don't you, colonel?"
                  "No, I'm a leveller."
                  "You? Good heavens!"
                  "You doubt my sincerity?"
                  "Completely, I am sorry to say, colonel."
                  "Well, you are wrong, my dear Arden. I think that whatever is, is best; and is
                     not everybody equal to everybody else? Consult the immortal Jefferson!"
                  "I wish he had never lived."
                  "Fie! you think with his opponent, Randolph of Roanoke."
                  Arden's face glowed.
                  "Indeed I do, my dear colonel. If there ever was a wise statesman it was your
                     Randolph of Roanoke. People called him erratic, crack-brained, unreliable. But
                     I'll tell you what I think: I think he was the profoundest and wisest political
                     thinker this country ever produced."
                  I began to laugh.
                  "Well," I said, "let us not further discuss these high themes. I very much fear
                     that you are still in the gall of bitterness and the bonds of iniquity, my
                     young friend. My own opinion is, that everybody, high and low, black and white,
                     good and bad, educated and ignorant, is equal to everybody else. Now, as this
                     is not very interesting, let us come back to your little affair."
                  "There's no time, colonel. Here is 'The Briars.' Follow me through this gate in
                     the stone fence, and we'll go round to the front of the house."
                  As Arden spoke, he leaped his horse through the torn-down wall; I followed,
                     and, skirting a piece of water at the lower end of a grove, we entered a
                     meadow, and saw the house to our right. It was a stone building, stuccoed, of considerable size,
                     and with a long portico in front, overshadowed by trees. Across the rolling
                     fields in front was seen the long wave of the North Mountain, like a faint mist
                     on the horizon. Toward the south a body of woods arrested the view.
                  "Ah, here is the picture that an invisible artist used to paint for you 'in
                     your tent on the Rapidan,' Arden!" I said. "Where's the 'oriole that sang in
                     the sycamore-tree?' I suspect the name of the oriole was
                     Annie,—was it not?"
                  "You are a terrible tease, colonel," said the blushing Arden; "and if you laugh
                     at me any more, I will ask after the health of the 'Rose of Fauquier,' whose
                     other name is Miss May Beverley."
                  The shot dismounted me. From the aged philosopher and satirist, I found myself
                     reduced suddenly to the character of a romantic lover,—no better than Harry
                     Arden.
                  "Well aimed, my boy," I said; "and I'm silenced. Let us drop the subject and
                     get on."
                  "We have arrived, colonel!" And Arden threw open the gate.
                  All at once, as he did so, we heard the trample of hoofs behind the house.
                  Then a squad of gray-clad horsemen appeared dashing toward the stable on the
                     left of the house, shouting "Halt! Halt!"
               
               
                  XVI. ONE! TWO! THREE! FOUR!
                  WE entered the grounds, and spurred after the gray figures. Suddenly we found
                     our course arrested by a high plank fence; and, forced thus to check our
                     horses, witnessed a singular scene, without taking any part in it.
                  The Confederates were pressing hotly a young Federal officer, whose blue
                     uniform was perfectly plain in the bright moonlight.
                  He had issued from the house, and, running to the stable, called to a terrified
                     orderly, who stood fumbling at the bridle, to bring him his horse. The orderly
                     seemed wholly incapable of obeying; and uttering a loud shout, the
                     Confederates, entering by an open gate, rode straight at the officer.
                  As they did so, the young man wheeled round and confronted them, drawing his
                     pistol, and coolly cocking it, without the least exhibition of alarm.
                  There was something superb in his bearing, and I exclaimed:—
                  "That is a brave fellow!"
                  "Good heavens!" I heard Arden say; "it is my brother Ralph!"
                  
                  "Is it possible?"
                  "Yes."
                  The Confederates were now nearly upon him.
                  "Halt!"
                  "Surrender!"
                  And the men drew their pistols as they spoke.
                  "Never with life!"* I heard the young officer reply in a clear, collected voice.
                  
                     *His words.
                  
                  And, raising his pistol, he took deliberate aim; the discharge followed, and
                     the foremost Confederate fell from his horse, shot through the neck and
                     mortally wounded.
                  As the animal wheeled and ran, the young officer coolly uttered the
                     monosyllable:—
                  "One!"
                  The second confederate fired at him within six paces, but missed. The report of
                     the Federal officer's pistol followed it like an echo, and the second
                     Confederate, throwing up his arms, fell from the saddle like the first.
                  "Two!" came in the same deep tone.
                  By this time the whole party had rushed into the stable-yard. I glanced at
                     Arden beside me. He was as pale as death.
                  "They will butcher him!" he muttered.
                  "Wait!" I said; "I am not so sure of that."
                  In fact, the result seemed extremely doubtful. The young Federal officer was
                     plainly not at all "demoralized." Instead of retreating into the stable, he
                     advanced full into the open space lit by the moon, and I could see that his
                     belt was full of pistols.
                  Then I witnessed a superb spectacle. Not without reason had Arden called his
                     brother "cool" and "brave." I had seen exhibitions of "game" often during the
                     war; but a cooler man than the young Federal officer, never.
                  He advanced straight upon his opponents, took dead aim, fired shot after shot,
                     and every shot appeared to wound or bring down a man. In the midst of a shower
                     of bullets, he seemed to possess a charmed life; none struck him. And still
                     came that deadly echo from his own weapon! The words "three! four!" accompanied
                     by the fall of the men at whom he fired, testified to the fatal accuracy of his
                     aim.
                  This lasted at least ten minutes; at the end of that time Lieutenant Arden, U.
                     S. A., was master of the field.
                  I saw him coolly replace his empty pistol in its holster, catch the bridle of a
                     horse belonging to one of the Confederates whom he had shot, and then turn to
                     the frightened orderly.
                  "Orderly!" he said, in a perfectly calm voice.
                  
                  "Lieutenant!" came in a trembling voice from the stable.
                  "What a coward you are!" said the other, laughing.
                  A sort of moan replied.
                  "Come out, you rascal!"
                  The trembling orderly appeared.
                  "Mount; lead my horse and come, or rather go on."
                  The victim of fright obeyed, and was soon galloping off.
                  "Now, for number five!" said the officer, smiling satirically; "they fire
                     badly, these gentlemen."
                  And, advancing coolly toward his adversaries, who were crowded together in a
                     little lane, waiting for him to mount, he took deliberate aim at them, fired,
                     and looked to see if his shot had struck. Then, as calmly as before, he again
                     took aim, and again fired.
                  These two parting shots exhausted, it seemed, his loads. The young officer
                     replaced his pistol in his belt, threw himself on the horse of the wounded
                     cavalryman, which he had continued to hold by the bridle, and, waving his hat
                     around his head, galloped off.*
                  
                  
                     *Fact.
                  
                  In a minute he had disappeared, hotly pursued by the cavalrymen, who, recoiling
                     before his deadly aim while on foot, waited for him to mount, in order to
                     follow on his track. They did so, now, at full speed, and I heard shots
                     resound; then they died away, and all vanished.
                  Arden drew a long breath.
                  "Good heavens! what a man!" he exclaimed.
                  "What a brave man!"
                  "My brother?"
                  "Yes. I could have killed him by a bullet through the side or back. Do you
                     think I would have fired on him? I would rather have cut off my right
                     hand."
                  "Thanks, colonel," said the young man. And, with a quick blush, he added:—
                  "Here is Annie!"
                  In fact, a young girl came out with a light, and I saw a rosy little face,
                     framed in curls, shine in the circle of radiance. Arden threw himself from
                     horseback, introduced his friend Colonel Surry to Miss Annie Meadows; and an
                     old lady, with thin, gray hair under a white cap, having made her appearance,
                     the wounded cavalrymen were borne, with the assistance of a maid-servant, into
                     the house, and their wants cared for.
                  Half an hour afterwards the wounded men were dozing on couches spread on the
                     floor of the apartment, or occupied beds elsewhere; and Miss Annie and Arden were whispering in a corner by the
                     light of a glimmering candle.
                  It was a charming picture. The young faces glowed, the lips smiled, and the
                     eyes were full of an expression which the present writer carefully guards
                     himself from "making fun of." I knew afterwards that the young lady was
                     explaining the visit of Arden's brother,—an explanation which the reader will
                     have laid before him in due season; and I suppose the "young things" talked of
                     various other subjects.
                  I can see them now, sitting in their little nook by the window, bending toward
                     each other, looking into each other's eyes, smiling, blushing,—and—yes! as I
                     live, "shaking hands." Enough of this improper espial. Whisper, fond young
                     lovers in the moonlight night. Press hands, murmur low, enjoy your chance
                     meeting on the border. Be absurd, be foolish, be as much "in love" as you
                     choose. Some cynics may laugh at you, but among them will not be the smiling
                     Colonel Surry, who listened for a few moments to the prattle of the lovers, and
                     then snored in his rocking-chair.
                  At daylight I awoke and aroused Arden, who was sleeping in a chair beside me.
                     Miss Annie had disappeared.
                  Fifteen minutes afterwards we were mounted and had regained the main road. A
                     glance around told me that I was near the Opequon, and consequently a few miles
                     only from Winchester, whither duty called me.
                  "Good-by," I said, after having informed Arden of the latter fact. "I will see
                     you soon again, I hope, and make you sing for me of Annie!"
                  "You laugh, colonel, but it is a good-natured laugh. Isn't she worth it?"
                  "Indeed she is."
                  "Come again and see us soon."
                  "Without fail!" And we parted with a close grasp of the hand.
                  Two hours afterwards I had forded the Opequon, passed Early's picket on the
                     crest of hills overlooking Winchester, and the paving-stones of that ancient
                     border town resounded beneath my horse's feet.
                  That horse was Ratcliffe's splendid charger, from which I had made him
                     dismount. It was the sole memorial which I retained of those two nights of
                     adventure on the banks of the Shenandoah.
               
               
                  
                  XVII. WINCHESTER.
                  I WONDER if these memories interest you, friendly reader, as much as they
                     interest the person who records them?
                  Pursuing thus the path of my recollections and my dreams, I go back to the
                     past, which amuses me much more than the present, and its figures live and move
                     for me again as they once did in the flesh!
                  1864, with all its drawbacks, was exciting, at least. 1868 is so dull!—is it
                     not, reader?
                  I think so; and try to make the shadow run back on the dial. Instead of talking
                     about reconstruction which does not reconstruct, and that republican liberty
                     supported so gracefully on bayonets, I return to 1864, and tell my story of the
                     border.
                  Again the carbines ring and the sabres clash. Good carbines! trusty sabres!—one
                     hangs on my wall yonder,—you are useless now, and are rusting wofully! but I
                     try to make your echoes sound again as in the hours of old. The present epoch
                     is stupid,—why not try to enliven it? So I ponder here at Eagle's
                        Nest; and, falling into dreams as it were, see the past return. All
                     comes back to memory, fresh and living,—the days and nights of adventure, the
                     charging squadrons, the ringing shouts; all the romance and incident,—the
                     mingled, comedy and tragedy of "that place and time,"—the border in 1864.
                  That word "romance" was injudicious. I am not writing romance. Do you doubt
                     that assertion? Perhaps, you say, for example, that the incident just
                     related—that courageous conduct of the young Federal officer—is imaginary. It
                     is true in every detail; and for the accuracy of other incidents ask the old
                     followers of Mosby, and Gilmore, and O'Neil. I only fear that my picture is too
                     tame.
                  My narrative lags, and yet I am greatly tempted to tarry a little in the good
                     old town of Winchester, to say a few words of the place and some famous
                     personages whom I encountered there, in this September of 1864.
                  Perhaps you imagine that Winchester is too small to deserve much attention,
                     reader. Never was greater mistake; and that philosophy, too, is errour.
                        Size is not the measure of importance in
                     countries, cities, or men. Greece was only a spot on the map of the Old World;
                     and yet she fertilized all countries with her ideas. Macedon was small; but her
                     king conquered Persia,—the greatest empire of the earth. Prussia was small; but she held her own against
                     Europe in arms.
                  Among cities is Paris or Pekin the most notable? One moves in advance of the
                     world; the other is dragged, a huge bulk, unwieldy and shapeless, as limitless,
                     inert Asia is dragged by little Europe.
                  And as to men: size is less a measure of importance there than elsewhere.
                     Napoleon was the "Little Corporal." Vendome was a microscopic hunchback. Pope
                     was a dwarf.
                  Granite and marble are not more valuable than the ruby and the diamond, because
                     the ruby and the diamond are less bulky.
                  And Winchester is not insignificant, because it is a place of only five or six
                     thousand inhabitants.
                  All which reflections, my dear reader, have, it is true, no connection with our
                     narrative, but, like the few pages following, have a distinct aim in view. I
                     have just shown you a number of scenes of a very hurried and "dramatic"
                     description, and we are going to rest a little now, and walk arm in arm through
                     Winchester.
                  It is a queer old place,—is it not? These overturned stones are the ruins of
                     Fort Loudoun, which a young man, called George Washington, just promoted to be
                     major, but now forgotten, commanded against the French and Indians about one
                     hundred years ago. Look at the old, gray-walled church yonder der, surrounded
                     by its crumbling tombstones. Under the shadow of its walls, lie General Daniel
                     Morgan, the friend of Washington and victor of Tarleton; and Lord Fairfax,
                     former owner of all this portion of Virginia.
                  Morgan was brave among the brave, but there was no pretence about him.
                  "Old Morgan was often miserably afraid!" he said.
                  And when coming to die he murmured:—
                  "To be only twenty again, I would be willing to be stripped naked, and hunted
                     through the Blue Ridge with wild dogs!"
                  Near him sleeps Lord Fairfax, who was the friend and patron of Washington in
                     the latter's boyhood. Like Morgan, he died in Winchester here, and his last
                     hours were bitter. It was in 1781. Yorktown had just fallen. Cornwallis had
                     surrendered to Washington, and the people of Winchester raised a shout.
                  "What is that?" asked the gray-haired nobleman.
                  They told him, and he uttered a groan.
                  "Take me to bed, John," he murmured to his old English body-servant; "it is
                     time for me to die!"
                  And soon afterwards he expired. His bones were laid far from "Old England," the
                     home of his race, in the quiet church-yard here, at Winchester, which he had built up. All through the
                     Indian wars the place had been a sentinel watching the border; and now it still
                     watches Lord Fairfax's tomb.
                  A single additional historic incident. At the old house yonder, about 1830, two
                     travellers stopped, and, asking for dinner in their private apartment, were
                     indignantly refused that request by the democratic landlord.
                  "If they thought they were too good to eat with the rest, they might leave the
                     house."
                  The travellers bowed, and ordered their carriage, which then drove off
                     elsewhere. It contained Louis Philippe D'Orleans, afterwards King of the
                     French, and his kinsman, the Due de Montpensier.
                  Odd, original, crooked, suggestive old Winchester! But how friendly and
                     cordial! Yonder are the ruins of "Selma," the former residence of Senator
                     Mason; and, all around you, are similar traces of Federal displeasure; but
                     glimmering amid the ruins are cheerful faces and bright, sweet eyes.
                  They belong to the "women of Winchester," and that term is going to be as
                     famous, one of these days, as "Roman Mother."
                  See those slender figures yonder, moving toward the hospitals! They look
                     fragile. These girls are timid, you would say. Do you think so? When the enemy
                     appear they wave Southern flags. When the banner of the United States is
                     suspended over the pavement they walk around it. When they pass Federal
                     officers they draw their skirts aside, to prevent them from coming in contact
                     with the blue uniforms. When Jackson drove Banks through the town, in 1862,
                     details were obliged to go in advance to warn the girls out of the way, in
                     order that the platoons might deliver their fire. After Kernstown they came out
                     and ran to greet and cheer the Southern prisoners; and then, proceeding to the
                     battlefield, sought out the Confederate corpses for burial. They bent over
                     them, sobbing and weeping, so that a young Federal officer's heart ached at the
                     sight.
                  "Do not cry so," he said to a young lady who seemed heart-broken.
                  The bowed head rose erect with intense hauteur, and the wet eyes blazed.
                  "What right have you to speak to me?" exclaimed the young lady, with burning
                     indignation. "Why did your people invade our country? But you will never
                     conquer us. We will never yield! We will shed the last drop of our blood before
                     you shall trample on us!"
                  A place with such memories and such hearts is worth attention,—is it not?
                  For my own part, I never go to Winchester, without thinking, "Here is the true
                     South! The hearts around me here were faithful in the dark days as in the
                     bright. They were true, under all
                     trials, to the bitter end; and, when others faltered, when others doubted, when
                     brave men shrunk, and the most hopeful despaired, then Winchester was most
                     resolved,—her resolution faltered least. Losing peace, competence, and
                     suffering all woes, she still kept that irreproachable honour, of which nothing
                     can ever deprive her, winning a clenched hand for crest, and for motto, 'True
                     to the last!'"
               
               
                  XVIII. EARLY AND SOME BRAVES OF THE VALLEY ARMY.
                  IN this September, 1864, General Early was occupying Winchester. His little
                     army, of eight or ten thousand, of all arms, was east of the town. General
                     Sheridan's forces, consisting of thirty-five thousand infantry, and ten
                     thousand cavalry, were lying on the right bank of the Opequon, a few miles
                     distant.
                  So much in passing simply. The present memoir deals with the Partisans, not the
                     "regular troops." At some other time I may describe that bitterly contested and
                     long-doubtful battle of the Opequon, where Early held his ground all day,
                     although outnumbered five to one. At present I do not touch the great canvas,
                     contenting myself with rapid outlines of a few famous figures seen at
                     Winchester then.
                  I found the brave General Early in his tent, near Winchester. Any one would
                     have known him. The piercing eyes, the curling hair, the mordant smile, and
                     stooping shoulders, could belong to no one but the fearless and obstinate
                     fighter, called familiarly by his
                     men "Old Jube." Nicknames indicate regard, when employed by troops. There were
                     some who disliked the general for his rigid discipline; but none were absurd
                     enough to doubt his courage.
                  "Old Jube aint afraid of the devil!" was the rough saying in the army. Indeed,
                     in the Army of Northern Virginia there was no more resolute soldier.
                  The general greeted me with a friendly smile, and we had a long talk.
                  "Grant has been up to see his young friend, 'Cavalry Sheridan,'" he said, with
                     that long-drawn and deliberate intonation, amounting nearly to a drawl, and
                     smiling satirically as he spoke. "Grant is a tremendous specimen of a soldier,
                     and has given Sheridan a tremendous order."
                  "What?"
                  "To 'go in;' that is, swallow a certain inoffensive General Early!" And the
                     speaker uttered a short laugh, which I echoed.
                  At the same moment Colonel C—— entered, and I exchanged with the brave
                     artillerist a cordial shake of the hand. The colonel then turned to Early and
                     said:—
                  "General, I have come to ask permission to go down to Annfield to
                     see my family for twenty-four hours."
                  The general shook his head.
                  "Can't give you leave, colonel."
                  "But I have no horse, general, and can get one at home."
                  "Borrow one, colonel," retorted the general, with a humourous drawl. "I have
                     been riding a borrowed horse through the whole campaign."*
                  
                  
                     *His words.
                  
                  It was impossible to avoid laughing at the tone of the speaker's voice; and
                     Colonel C—— laughed too.
                  As he went out, General Rodes entered, followed by General Ramseur.
                  Did you meet, during the late war, those two heroic souls, reader? If not, let
                     me draw a rapid outline of them; they deserve it. Among the braves who fell
                     fighting in that terrible year 1864, none were braver, none more devoted, than
                     the Virginian Rodes and the North Carolinian Ramseur.
                  Rodes—tall, slender, quiet, with blue eyes, long, light hair, light beard, and
                     a smile as sweet as a woman's—impressed you slightly at first view. But a
                     second glance revealed more. When he spoke, his voice was brief, resolute,
                     quiet, but commanding. For the rest, your true soldier does not always
                        look like a soldier. How many burly, black-bearded giants, with
                     thunderous voices and boastings, have I seen falter! How many smooth-faced,
                     girlish, low-voiced voiced boys have
                     I known who would fight to the last and die unmoved! Willie Pegram,—shrinking
                     and shy, with the face and bearing of a girl,—how you fought and fell,
                     thrilling the whole Southern army with that courage of the bull-dog!
                  Ramseur presented a strong contrast to his companion. Of medium height,
                     dark-haired, with black beard and eyes, animated, a real soldier in bearing,
                     you saw that he would lead a forlorn hope into the muzzles of hostile cannon,
                     and fight against any odds to the last.
                  I spent an hour with the three generals, and then took my leave. As I left
                     Early's tent, I met one who was building up then a great fame,—General
                     Gordon.
                  Gordon was a soldier born,—from head to foot, soldier. The
                     penetrating glance, the proud head flanked by long hair carried behind the
                     ears, the firm lips, the resolute chin, the commanding carriage of the whole
                     person, showed that he was born for leadership. His fame was a late-growing
                     flower; but how dazzling was the bloom when it came! Have you ever seen the
                     "Giant-of-battle" rose, reader?—that superb, full disc, of flashing crimson,
                     which Stuart so loved? Here was the human "giant of battle,"—the man whose name
                     was to electrify the whole army, as it will electrify the future; who, at Cedar
                     Creek, the Wilderness, all along the road to Petersburg, at Hare's Hill, and in
                     the last charge at Appomattox, was to win a fame, shining clear, among the
                     brightest in history.
                  I look back and remember meeting many great men; among them, few rise in
                     stature to the level of Gordon. To receive his modest and cordial salute, with
                     the friendly smile, charmed me; to press that hand, that held the sword-hilt
                     with a grasp so heroic in battle, was a very great honour. I thought so then; I
                     think so more than ever to-day.
                  Health and happiness attend you, general! You tread already on the shining
                     heights of history. Three names to-day are greeted with a strange enthusiasm in
                     the South. Those names are Lee, Hampton, and Gordon.
                  And now, looking back to that day at Winchester, I remember, with sighs, what
                     the near hours brought.
                  Ramseur killed at the Opequon; Rodes killed at Cedar Creek; Early driven into
                     exile,—how the strong hours crush us!
                  But these reflections are sad. Let us dismiss them and record more cheerful
                     things.
                  I was invited on this evening to meet my friend, General Fitzhugh Lee, at Mr.
                     M——'s; and, approaching the handsome portico flooded with moonlight, had a
                     charming surprise.
                  Leaning on General Lee's arm was—Miss May Beverley!
               
               
                  
                  XIX. FITZHUGH LEE, THE GAY AND GALLANT.
                  "UNDER all the circumstances," I think I will say nothing more of Miss May
                     Beverley.
                  Unfortunately, that young lady has already been brought too prominently before
                     the world in the first series of my Memoirs, to which my friend,
                     the editor, has given the title "Surry of Eagle's Nest."
                  If you have perused that volume, you must have felt some surprise, my dear
                     reader, that a young damsel's private life and affairs of the heart should have
                     been dwelt upon so unreservedly. But a word will explain all. My memoirs were
                     written for my own family, and published only "by request of friends."
                  In sending off the MS., a pencil-mark was drawn through the obnoxious chapters.
                     By some accident, however, they were printed, and Miss Beverley's affairs were
                     made public. To-day, to avoid all further indiscretion, I preserve silence.
                  So, worthy reader, if you are curious about Miss May Beverley; if you wish to
                     know how this star of loveliness and goodness (be still, madam, and don't be so
                     impolite as to look over my shoulder!) rose above the horizon of my life; if
                     you would find where we met first; how I became a fortunate victim,—you have
                     only to read the Memoirs to which I refer.
                  In this place I will only say that mademoiselle looked quite charming, and that
                     the great violet eyes and waving chestnut hair were brighter than in the old
                     days of 1861, at "The Oaks." She had come to Winchester on a visit, and I had
                     not seen her at Colonel Beverley's. Her smile was sunshine, her lips as red as
                     carnations, and the rose in her hair looked faded beside the two that bloomed
                     in her cheeks! (Are you satisfied, madam? That is rather well-turned, I think!
                     You see I have not forgotten; that I remember you with the eyes as well as the
                     heart! I go away from Eagle's Nest, where I write this with your
                     face bending over me, in 1868, to Winchester, in 1864, when you were far less
                     demonstrative! I see your smiles, hear your voice, and listen! There is the gay
                     laughter of the gallant General Fitz Lee, as he looks at me in triumph, and
                     bears you off, in the moonlight, with the white hand on the gold braid of his
                     gray coat-sleeve!)
                  I wish I had time and space to make a portrait of that brave soldier and
                     gentleman, Major-General Fitzhugh Lee, or "General Fitz," as we used to call
                     him in the army. Never was born into this world a gayer, more sparkling spirit, a truer
                     comrade, a finer representative of the great race of cavaliers. You had only to
                     look at this dashing sabreur,—the
                     bosom-friend of Stuart,—at this "cavalryman all over," with the soul of
                     merriment, truth, courage, frolic, resolution, and unwavering "pluck," to see
                     that he was born for the career of arms, for the life of the bivouac and the
                     battle-field. As we pass, however hurriedly, let us glance at him for an
                     instant. Here he is, with his low and athletic figure, his well-worn uniform,
                     cavalry boots, gay sash, and brown hat with its black feather. See the flowing
                     brown beard, and heavy mustache, like Stuart's; the lips curling with laughter;
                     the eyes flashing with good-humour; hear the voice, rich and mellow; note the
                     bearing full of fun, and the insouciant
                     cavalry ease. A glance tells you that this man is ready to mount at a moment's
                     warning; that the small white hand will go to the sword-hilt instinctively, and
                     that, wherever sabres clash, he will be present.
                  You will find in many volumes, reader, an account of Fitzhugh Lee's
                     performances: how he fought through all the battles of Stuart; originated the
                     "Buckland-races" ruse; drove amain, with his troopers, through the smoke of
                     Manassas, Boonsboro', Sharpsburg, Gettysburg; fought Sheridan in the great
                     campaigns of 1864, and on Lee's retreat, in 1865, commanded the rear guard of
                     the army, fighting at every step, and made the last cavalry charge at
                     Appomattox, ten minutes before the surrender. All this you will read, and you
                     will find the testimony of his great kinsman, General R. E. Lee: "Your
                     admirable conduct, devotion to the cause of your country, and devotion to duty,
                     fill me with pleasure." Read all that in the books, friend. Here I show you not
                     Major-General Fitzhugh Lee, fighting obstinately on desperate fields, but Fitz
                     Lee, the gay and gallant, laughing as he bears off, with twinkling eyes, in the
                     moonlight, the sweetheart (pardon that old word, reader!) of the unfortunate
                     Colonel Surry.
                  I had recaptured the young lady, had my own little talk, and was laughing with
                     my friend, "General Fitz," when a courier brought me a despatch. It was from
                     General Lee's head-quarters, through General Early's, and directed me to make a
                     thorough inspection of the entire Partisan forces of the region.
                  An hour afterwards, I had made all my preparations to obey this order, which
                     would take me into the heart of "Mosby's Confederacy."
                  I had parted from Fitzhugh Lee with a warm pressure of the hand, little
                     supposing that in a few days he would be prostrated by a dangerous wound, in a
                     hot fight with Sheridan's cavalry. It laid him up for months, but he was again
                     in the field in the spring, fighting
                     as before. To the end he continued fighting, and he was the last to lay down
                     his sword.
                  He is yonder to-day, at "Richland," on the Potomac, and an old comrade, from
                     "Eagle's Nest," sends him greeting in the dull hours.
                  Health and happiness, "General Fitz!" May the breezes of the Chesapeake, which
                     pass Richland, bear away the noise of laughter! Ten thousand hearts are beating
                     in the South to-day which remember you. Ten thousand voices would repeat for
                     you the words of our old army ballad, 
                        "Here's my heart, and here's my hand,"
                      as does the comrade of old times, who writes this page.
               
               
                  XX. THE TORCH.
                  THE order which I had received to make an inspection of the Partisan commands
                     was far from disagreeable.
                  It enabled me to remain longer in the region than my original orders
                     contemplated; and it thus seemed probable that I would witness the sequel of
                     Landon's highly "dramatic" affair with Ratcliffe.
                  I really longed to be present, or not very far off, when the denouement of the tragedy took place; and I hope
                     the reader will not, on that account, regard me as a very prying personage. He
                     would do me injustice. I have always had a very profound respect for the
                     individual—read of in romances—who made an ample fortune by attending to his
                     own business. (And here let me exclaim, parenthetically, Oh, to make his
                     acquaintance, if he be still alive! or to know, even, some member of his "small
                     and select" family! Up to the present time, I have failed to enjoy the pleasure
                     of their acquaintance!)
                  Not from prying curiosity, then, but from rational interest in a very curious
                     drama, I had come to feel that
                     desire to be near when Landon and Ratcliffe settled their differences. That the
                     settlement would be bloody, there was little doubt. Between these two human
                     beings there was evidently a bitter feud.
                  What was the origin of it? How would it terminate? What had been the relations
                     between Miss Adair and Landon, and had not Ratcliffe played a part in the drama
                     of these two lives? I had a decided longing to penetrate these mysteries; to
                     ascertain what tie had bound my cool and resolute friend Landon to the young
                     girl who had appeared so suddenly in the Old Chapel graveyard; to know all
                     about him and Ratcliffe; to see what would be the denouement of all these loves, hatreds, and vengeances.
                  So I shook General Early's hand, and bade that hardy soldier farewell, to go
                     back to the Partisans.
                  It was a beautiful morning in early September. The road which I followed was
                     the main one to Millwood and Ashby's Gap; and, passing the Opequon, I pushed
                     on, winding amid the hills, whose slopes were covered with the yellow and
                     golden tints of the approaching autumn.
                  Leaving the "pine hills" as they are called, I advanced steadily, without
                     encountering a single horseman, and had entered a forest within two or three
                     miles of Millwood, when all at once I caught sight, through the tree-trunks, of
                     a red flag, then of a column of mounted men drawn up at the mouth of a road
                     debouching into the main highway.
                  A second glance told me that they were Landon's men, and I was soon at his
                     side.
                  He greeted me, as did Arden, with a close pressure of the hand, and in a few
                     words I explained what had happened after our parting at the Old Chapel.
                  "Good!" he said, "I am glad he got away from you, colonel."
                  "Ratcliffe?"
                  "Yes."
                  I laughed and said, "Is he a particular friend of yours?"
                  "Yes; and I think I am going to put my hand on him this morning, when I promise
                     you he will not get away so easily."
                  Landon's voice was as cool and measured as ever, but there was an unwonted
                     light in his eyes. It was the light in the eye of the bloodhound who sees his
                     prey and longs to spring upon it.
                  "Ratcliffe is yonder," he continued, pointing across the woods to the right. "I
                     have sent Touch-and-go to capture the vidette, so as to surprise him."
                  "What is his force?"
                  "About eighty.
                  "Your own?"
                  "About thirty."
                  
                  "Look out!" I said, pointing to a figure in blue, hastening toward us; "they
                     are coming to reconnoitre you."
                  "It is Touch-and-go. Well?" he said, quickly, as the scout approached.
                  "Eighty-five men, captain. I counted them as they wound over the hill toward
                     Saratoga."
                  "Good! and the vidette?"
                  "He is dead. He was at the gate in the stone fence. I walked straight up to
                     him, thinking my blue coat would fool him; but he snapped his carbine at
                     me."
                  "And—"
                  "I did not wish to shoot him, for fear of alarming them; so I got hold of his
                     carbine and knocked out his brains with the butt-end."
                  "All right. Come on, colonel; we are losing time," said Landon.
                  And, placing himself at the head of his men, he went down the road toward
                     Millwood at a thundering gallop.
                  Emerging from the woods, the Blue Ridge and Ashby's Gap were right before us,
                     swimming in delicate mist. On the right extended a large field, enclosed by a
                     stone fence, in which there was a gate, which seemed to lead into a house
                     beyond the hill.
                  Across the road lay the dead vidette. His horse was grazing in the high
                     road.
                  Landon's men swept through the gate, formed column with drawn sabres, and
                     darted onward.
                  Suddenly a dense smoke rose beyond the hill,—dark, threatening, and tinged with
                     the red glare of flames.
                  Then we heard on the wind the low and monotonous crackling of a
                     conflagration.
                  "They are burning the house!" exclaimed Arden.
                  "No, it is too far to the left," said Landon. "It is the barn and stable; the
                     house will follow, or would."
                  And, turning in his saddle at full gallop, Landon pointed with his sword to the
                     smoke.
                  "Do you see?" he said.
                  A yell answered.
                  "These people are burning barns and houses, starving women and children! The
                     fewer the prisoners we take the better!"
                  The men replied with a shout; and, as though driven onward by that shout, the
                     column rushed to the attack.
               
               
                  
                  XXI. "BEFORE TO-MORROW YOU WILL BE DEAD—OR I WILL."
                  IN a moment, it seemed to me, the little band of Rangers had swept across the
                     extensive field, thundered down a rocky declivity, passed at full gallop
                     through a small stream, and a second gate, and dashed up the hill to the
                     threatened mansion.
                  It stood upon a knoll, with an emerald slope in front, at the foot of which a
                     weeping willow laved its tassels in the water of a little stream. Around the
                     old portico grew flowers. All had an air of peace, and home, and welcome.
                  Or would have had,—for the grounds, the portico, the mansion, swarmed with blue
                     coats, whose horses were scattered over the lawn. Half had gone to fire the
                     barn beyond,—a structure containing stalls for fifty horses; half stayed to
                     fire the house. In a dozen hands streaming torches were seen; if we had arrived
                     an instant later, the mansion would have been destroyed. The rush of Landon and
                     his men up the hill was magnificent.
                  "Charge!" thundered the Rangers.
                  And at that sound the blue horsemen turned suddenly, and opened fire.
                  Landon did not pause. In three bounds he was in front of the portico, and his
                     sabre had descended once, twice, thrice, cutting down a man at each stroke.
                  Then, leaping from his horse, and drawing his pistol with his left hand,—his
                     right still holding his bloody sabre,—he rushed into the mansion.
                  I followed, and we burst into a large apartment on the right, with a tall
                     mantel-piece, wainscoting, and decorated, at one end, I remember, by the
                     half-length portrait of a gentleman which looked serenely down amid the
                     uproar.
                  The room was full of Federal soldiers, smashing the glass ware on the
                     sideboard, and tearing open every door in search of plate.
                  Others were endeavouring to fire the apartment, and in the centre of them I saw
                     Ratcliffe.
                  Landon rushed upon him, firing as he did so; then, shortening his sword, lunged
                     straight at his heart.
                  Ratcliffe parried the blow; then bounded backward; and then his men rushed upon
                     Landon and myself, firing and cutting at us. But the tables were quickly
                     turned. The grim faces of the Rangers appeared at the Partisans' back; they
                     threw themselves upon the Federal soldiers, and, in less time than is required to write it, the blue coats had
                     vanished through the rear door of the mansion, and thrown themselves upon their
                     horses.
                  Landon uttered a sort of growl, and, rushing to his horse, went with drawn
                     sabre on the track of Ratcliffe, who galloped headlong among his flying
                     men.
                  The Rangers followed, shouting and firing. Then, in front of the burning barn
                     and stables, an obstinate combat ensued,—a wild melée of shots, clashing
                     swords, yells, groans, over which rose the roar of the flames.
                  Landon had come up with Ratcliffe.
                  "At last!" I heard him say, as he closed in with the Federal captain.
                  And in an instant he was boot to boot with Ratcliffe, had caught him by the
                     throat, and, shortening his sword again, he plunged it I thought through his
                     adversary's breast. I was mistaken. By a quick movement, Ratcliffe evaded the
                     blow, and fired at his opponent,—body to body.
                  The ball missed its mark, but passed through the throat of the Partisan's
                     horse. The animal uttered a shrill cry, threw up his head, staggered, and fell,
                     dragging down his rider.
                  But Landon in turn dragged Ratcliffe. Nothing seemed able to make him release
                     his grasp. Clutching the Federal captain by the throat, he dragged him from the
                     saddle, fell upon him, and, half rising, drew back his arm to drive the point
                     of his sabre through his enemy's heart.
                  Ratcliffe writhed and half rose.
                  "I surrender!" he cried.
                  "I'll take no surrender from you, cursed hound!" exclaimed Landon.
                  But suddenly a whirlwind seemed to sweep over them. Before Landon could stab
                     his adversary, the Federal horse broke in wild flight; passed trampling over
                     the two adversaries; and, rising half stunned to his feet, his face pale, his
                     teeth set, his head uncovered, and with the bleeding marks of hoofs upon his
                     forehead, Landon looked round him.
                  The Federal cavalry were flying wildly, pursued by the Rangers. At his feet lay
                     Ratcliffe, uttering deep groans.
                  Landon's laugh replied.
                  "Good!" he muttered. "I said I would put my hand on you. Before to-morrow you
                     will be dead, or I will!"
               
               
                  
                  XXII. LIEUTENANT ARDEN, U.S.A.
                  I WAS close beside Landon when he uttered these words. Never had I seen him
                     look so happy.
                  "You will fight him?" I said.
                  "Yes."
                  "A prisoner?"
                  "I will release him."
                  "And his second?"
                  Landon pointed to a squad of prisoners approaching. Suddenly among them I
                     recognized young Lieutenant Arden, U.S.A., who had exhibited such courage at
                     the house of Miss Annie a few days before.
                  "There is a lieutenant," said Landon; "he will act as second."
                  And seeing that Ratcliffe had half risen and was watching him, he said:—
                  "I refused to give you quarter just now; I now offer it on one condition."
                  "What condition?" he said, sullenly.
                  "That you fight me to-night."
                  "I am bruised—bleeding."
                  "So am I."
                  And Landon pointed to his bloody forehead.
                  "Choose!" he added; "either fight or prepare to be shot! I hold no parley with,
                     and have no mercy for, house-burners."
                  "I will fight you—if paroled," growled Ratcliffe.
                  Landon looked at him.
                  "Paroled?—you?"
                  "Do you doubt my honour, sir?" exclaimed Ratcliffe, starting up.
                  Landon's expression was indescribable.
                  "Not at all, sir," he said, coolly; "you are paroled, and will please select
                     your second from the prisoners yonder. Colonel Surry, will you be good enough
                     to act for me?"
                  I bowed and looked toward Ratcliffe.
                  He recognized me and scowled bitterly.
                  "Ah! I see you remember me, my dear Captain Ratcliffe," I said, laughing. "I am
                     still riding your horse,—an excellent one. But your second?"
                  "Lieutenant Arden," he said, sullenly, pointing to the young officer.
                  I bowed again, and went and introduced myself to Lieutenant Arden, U.S.A., who
                     received me with great politeness. It is impossible to imagine anything more
                     tranquil than his demeanour. He told with a smile that his horse had been shot
                     under him, his sabre cut from his
                     side, his pistol knocked from his hand, and "they had ended by riding over him,
                     and demanding his surrender."
                  "Whereupon you surrendered, lieutenant?" I said, laughing.
                  "Of course," he replied, with a smile.
                  "Well, you did not do so the other night, on your visit to a young lady of our
                     acquaintance."
                  And I pointed toward the Opequon.
                  "Were you there?" he exclaimed.
                  "Yes, but not among your opponents."
                  "A queer affair. They ought to have killed me. My visit was unlucky."
                  "Your visit?"
                  "To the young lady. Is she a friend of yours, colonel?"
                  He smiled and glanced at me curiously.
                  "Don't fight me!" he said. "I went to carry her a pass through the lines, which
                     I heard she wished. I have seen her but once before, and I did not know—"
                  He paused and sighed.
                  "That your brother loved her?"
                  He looked at me.
                  "You know all, I see. Well, colonel, so be it. At least you now understand why
                     it would have been stupid to have been killed that night. Unjust, too. I was
                     doing a good action."
                  And seeing our Arden approach, the prisoner went to him and said,
                     laughing:—
                  "How are you, Harry?"
                  The young man leaped from his horse and threw his arms round his brother's
                     neck.
                  Blue and gray were clasped tight in each other's arms!
                  When they drew back I think there were tears in the eyes of both. Then, bowing
                     toward me:—
                  "At your orders, colonel," said Lieutenant Arden, U.S.A.
               
               
                  
                  XXIII. BIZARRE.
                  THE terms of the combat between Landon and Ratcliffe were speedily arranged by
                     myself and Lieutenant Arden, whom I found to be a perfect gentleman.
                  Pistols were chosen; the meeting was to take place at a spot on the banks of
                     the Shenandoah, called "Lover's Leap," near which Landon designed to bivouac
                     that night, and the hour determined upon was daylight next morning.
                  Having perfected these arrangements with Lieutenant Arden, U.S.A.; I made that
                     gentleman a bow, and, turning him over to his brother, who was plainly dying to
                     talk to him, returned and reported to Landon.
                  "A thousand thanks, colonel," he said, quietly; and Ratcliffe, having been
                     supplied with a captured horse, Landon, who had mounted another, began to move
                     with his troop toward the Blue Ridge.
                  The result of the combat had been a few prisoners and many dead bodies in blue.
                     Landon's loss was half a dozen wounded. Behind us smouldered the black
                     ruin.
                  The little body of horsemen slowly took their way toward the Shenandoah.
                     Winding along through a secluded glen, studded with mossy rocks, they passed
                     through a gate in the stone fence, turned to the left, and, following a shaded
                     road, made their way through the country between Millwood and White Post.
                  Oh, the lovely region as we rode on, that September! Oh, the trees touched with
                     gold, and the mountains bathed in azure! It was a land all romance, you would
                     have said, gentle reader, where the graces danced, and the loves disported.
                     Nothing stirred the air but the winds in the forest, the music of cascades, and
                     the murmur of the Shenandoah beneath its sycamores.
                  Nothing else? Hear that muttering from the direction of Winchester! It is
                     Early's war-dogs growling, and showing Sheridan their teeth. Loves and graces?
                     Look at these figures, bearded and grim,—the figures in gray and blue.
                     Murmuring waterfalls? You hear the rattle of the sabre!
                  But the land was beautiful if the red hoof had stamped upon it. It is beautiful
                     to-day, and will be beautiful forever; for the blue mountains yonder are
                     laughing at factions, parties, and intrigues in 1868, as they echoed, with
                     hoarse laughter, in their fir-clad
                     clad gorges, the roar of the cannon, in that strange year 1864.
                  As the sun was sinking toward the forest we saw the "Blue Ball," as a peak of
                     the mountain is called, right before us, and the voice of the river ascended in
                     a low murmur from its bed hundreds of feet beneath us.
                  On a hill rose an old and very stately-looking mansion. Landon pointed to it
                     and said:—
                  "This is my house, 'Bizarre,' colonel. I am glad to have you visit it."
                  A ride of fifteen minutes brought us in front of the old mansion,—a building of
                     large size, with something "aristocratic" about it. Pardon that obsolete,
                     old-fashioned phrase, reader.
                  "Bizarre" seemed to have been the residence of many generations of gentlemen.
                     Half in ruins, as it was, there was something proud and imposing in its worn
                        façade. You could see that men and women
                     had held high revelry here in the old days when Virginia was Virginia.
                  At a sign from Landon the men broke ranks and scattered themselves through the
                     extensive grounds, with only videttes out. Landon calculated rightly that few
                     Federals would venture to penetrate these great woods.
                  Captain Ratcliffe and Lieutenant Ralph Arden were ushered into the mansion,
                     where an old negro, who seemed to be the genius of the place, hastened, by
                     Landon's order, to provide supper for them. They were not placed under guard,
                     having both given their paroles not to attempt to escape; and, making his
                        guests a low bow, Landon went out of the apartment.
                  I was beside him, and we found ourselves in the great hall of the mansion. It
                     was inexpressibly bare and desolate. Old portraits mouldered on the walls. From
                     some huge deer-antlers hung cobwebs. The spider was lord here, and reigned in
                     joint sovereignty with the mouse and the moth.
                  "A deserted old affair this," said the Partisan, coolly. "Those tall-backed
                     chairs, colonel, and these dingy old pictures, are all that remain to me,
                     except the bare walls."
                  "You have been away for years, I suppose?"
                  "Yes, and feel almost like a stranger."
                  He gazed around him with an abstracted look. An expression of sadness would
                     have visited the countenance of most men. Landon seemed to have no room in his
                     heart for so gentle an emotion. Was this man made of marble? I tried to test
                     him.
                  "You are the last of your line, captain?" I said.
                  "Yes; the last."
                  "It is sorrowful."
                  
                  "Many things are sorrowful in this world, colonel."
                  "You have no brothers or sisters?"
                  "None."
                  "And your parents,—your family?"
                  "All gone. My mother was the last, and she died some years since."
                  The marble was touched. A faint tinge came to Landon's cheeks.
                  "I loved my mother," he said, in a low voice; "and they murdered her!"
                  A quick flash of the eye followed. Turning his head, in a manner inexpressibly
                     stern and haughty, he glanced toward the apartment occupied by Ratcliffe.
                  "That man was her murderer," he said. "Do you wonder now that I hate him?"
                  His brows were knit together; a grim smile came to his lips.
                  "Luckily, I have one consolation," he said, in his cool voice. "Like Randolph
                     of Roanoke, I am the last of my house; I am alone in the world, without father
                     or mother, brother or sister; I am a mere waif, an estray,—a stranger here in
                     the halls of my forefathers; but good fortune has not wholly deserted me. I
                     have the man I hate most in this world within a few yards of me,—in twelve
                     hours, or less, will stand facing him, when I hope to settle, once for all, our
                     little account."
                  Landon's vibrating and metallic voice ceased, and his glance wandered to a
                     portrait on the wall. It represented a lady of great beauty and distinction,
                     with blue eyes, and brown hair piled up upon the forehead; one white jewelled
                     hand was raised to the head-dress. In the whole portrait there was something
                     exquisitely high-bred and delicate.
                  As he continued to gaze at this picture, the colour upon Landon's cheeks
                     gradually deepened; his lips were compressed as though to arrest a sob; in his
                     fiery eye glittered something like a tear.
                  "I thought I was strong," he muttered; "but that face makes me a child
                     again!"
                  "Your mother?"
                  He turned quickly.
                  "Yes, colonel, my poor mother! She left me last, and that finished me."
                  His head sank. A grim contraction of the brows betrayed the hidden anguish. All
                     at once he turned his head and looked at me.
                  "All this must seem strange to you," he said, "and I fear you think me
                     something of a charlatan."
                  "Captain!"
                  "Only charlatans or outcasts change their names; conceal themselves; have
                     mysteries."
                  
                  "Why speak thus bitterly?" I said. "Do you imagine I ever thought thus of you?
                     Your face is enough, Captain Landon; it is a loyal face."
                  He made me the bow of a nobleman.
                  "Thanks! I value your good opinion," he said. "But I have appeared to you under
                     peculiar circumstances, colonel. You saw me at Manassas under a different name;
                     you come hither and hear Miss Adair address me, as she did yonder, in a manner
                     not very complimentary. Well, all this must appear rather 'mysterious' to you,
                     as the novel-writers say, and I have little fondness for mystery."
                  "Well, I acknowledge that I have," I said, smiling.
                  Landon was silent; he evidently hesitated. His dark eyes interrogated my
                     face.
                  "I am heavy-hearted to-night," he said, suddenly, in his deep voice. "We have
                     fought together. You are a comrade,—a gentleman. Would you like to hear a
                     rather curious story, friend, to while away an hour this evening?"
                  I extended my hand and grasped Landon's.
                  "Your story? That is a mark of friendship you give me."
                  He inclined his head.
                  "You are right, colonel; but it will be a relief to me. To-night,
                     thought seems to crush me. You will listen?"
                  "Speak, captain! You do me an honour and a pleasure."
                  "Then follow me, colonel. There is a spot near this house which I have not
                     visited for years,—the scene of the duel to-morrow,—and it is connected with
                     the events which I am going briefly to relate. Let us go thither; it is but a
                     step."
                  "You mean the 'Lover's Leap'?"
                  "Yes."
                  And, leading the way, Landon left the mansion. I followed him in silence.
               
               
                  
                  XXIV. LOVER'S LEAP.
                  WE passed through the extensive grounds, descended a grassy slope, and my
                     companion led the way into a dense forest of pines, which he threaded by a path
                     which seemed well known to him.
                  Passing beneath the lofty dome of foliage, from the summit of which the sinking
                     sun was slowly lifting up the golden crown, we continued to follow the path;
                     the wood opened; nearly opposite was the shaggy "Blue Ball;" fifty yards
                     further we suddenly emerged upon a precipice, at the far base of which rolled
                     the waves of the Shenandoah, and from whose summit the eye swept a lovely
                     landscape of lofty mountain and winding river, bathed in the golden light of
                     sunset.
                  "Lover's Leap" was a rude mass of rock, which we approached by a narrow path
                     half covered with a carpet of pine tassels. On the very brink of the precipice
                     grew a solitary pine, by clasping which you could lean far over the dizzy verge
                     and see the Shenandoah hundreds of feet beneath you. All around rose the
                     fir-clad slopes; beyond the river smiling fields stretched away to the base of
                     the Blue Ridge, whose forests were of every colour of the rainbow.
                  Landon took his seat upon a mass of rock near the solitary pine, and passed his
                     hand over his forehead.
                  The gesture was gloomy; but the Partisan's lip wore the cool, impassive
                     expression which was habitual with him.
                  "Do you know what I think sometimes, colonel?" he said.
                  "What?"
                  "That life is a farce,—existence a bore at best."
                  "Then I know you are not happy."
                  "You are wrong there."
                  "I am truly glad to hear it."
                  "Have I not something to put me in high good humour?"
                  "Ah! you mean—"
                  "Exactly! It is charming to be understood, colonel. Yes, I have the little
                     affair with Ratcliffe; and, as I have been longing for it lately, I ought to
                     feel the tranquil satisfaction of a man who has attained, or is about to
                     attain, the object of his wishes."
                  Landon uttered a low laugh. It was not a pleasant sound.
                  "Why not?" he continued. "Am I not fortunate? Men are charmed when they have
                     the woman they love beside
                     them,—when they can say, 'I love you,' and hear her reply, 'I will marry you.'
                     Why should I not be gratified, then, when I have my dear enemy beside me?—can
                     say to him, 'I hate you,' and hear him reply, 'I will fight you?' Tastes vary
                     in this world, colonel. Some men, no doubt, would prefer the interview with
                     their lady-love; I prefer that with my enemy. Others thrill at, 'I will marry
                     you!' I am charmed with, 'I will fight you!'"
                  I looked curiously at this man.
                  "I can understand,—or think I will,—when you tell me your story."
                  "Well, you shall have it, friend. I am not a confiding personage generally, but
                     something moves me to-night."
                  And, leaning back against the great rock, Landon thus continued:—
                  "I was born at 'Bizarre,'—the old house which you have visited to-night,—and
                     grew to the age of eighteen without ever leaving home. My father died in my
                     childhood, leaving one other son and two daughters, all younger than
                     myself.
                  "Well, at eighteen I spent a year at the Virginia Military Institute, preparing
                     for West Point, whither my father had expressed a wish that I should go. He
                     fancied that I had betrayed an early aptitude for the army, and, on his
                     death-bed, had shaped out my future. My mother, who doted on her children, was
                     bitterly opposed to this step; but I urged my father's wishes; set out joyfully
                     for Lexington; and duly became a cadet.
                  "Here commenced my acquaintance with the person with whom I am going to fight
                     to-morrow morning,—Ratcliffe. He was from East Tennessee, about the same age as
                     myself, and we soon became intimate,—for what reason I have never been able to
                     understand. These things happen. The court which Ratcliffe paid to me, perhaps,
                     explained the fact. He had taken up, I discovered afterwards, the impression
                     that I was extremely rich,—the heir of an 'old family' of high position,—and,
                     as he was a person of humble birth, and aspiring, he looked to me, it seems, to
                     aid his career.
                  "Well, his attentions won me. For the rest, I was open and confiding then. We
                     became intimate; he informed me that he had secured an appointment and was
                     going to West Point; and, as I had also been appointed, we arranged to go
                     northward together.
                  "When I was about to return home, Ratcliffe said, carelessly, that he was half
                     resolved to go and spend the interval with me, instead of returning to
                     Tennessee. I responded by a cordial invitation; he accepted at once; and in a
                     few days we were at 'Bizarre,'—two youths, full of life and health, 'home for
                     the holidays.'
                  
                  "This brief recital will show you, colonel, how Ratcliffe—a stranger to this
                     region and to our people here—became mixed up with my life. I can look back now
                     and see what I could not then; that he had used a hundred acts to become
                     intimate with me, and secure this invitation. Cunning, ambitious, obscure, he
                     aimed to rise from his low sphere by social 'connections,' and his first step
                     had succeeded; he had become an inmate of 'Bizarre,' the associate of my mother
                     and my sisters.
                  "They did not like him. My mother was a person of great simplicity and
                     sweetness, but of very high breeding; and I soon saw that something in
                     Ratcliffe displeased her. As to the girls, nothing could induce them to smile
                     upon him. I resented this, as you may imagine; took my friend everywhere; made
                     him acquainted with the most agreeable young ladies of the region, and, among
                     others, with Miss Adair, whom you met at the Old Chapel that night.
                  "From her childhood, Miss Adair had been—to use the English phrase—my
                     'sweetheart.' My father and Judge Adair had been intimate friends; our mothers
                     old schoolmates, and very much devoted to each other. Thus to fall in love with
                     Miss Ellen Adair seemed the simplest and easiest thing in the world to the boy,
                     St. Leger Landon, who burned to cement the affection of father for father,
                     mother for mother, by marrying the young lady, and thus perfecting the union of
                     the two families.
                  "When I went to Lexington I was already engaged to the young lady; on my
                     return, I saw, at our first meeting, that her feelings had undergone no change;
                     and before I left 'Chapeldale,' her father's residence,—you have been
                     there,—our engagement was renewed, and rendered more binding than before. In
                     other words, Miss Adair had solemnly plighted me her troth,—promised that she
                     would marry me,—and I returned to 'Bizarre' so perfectly happy that I thought
                     fate itself was powerless to overcloud a sky as radiant as my future."
                  A bitter smile came to Landon's lips.
                  "Such is youth," he went on. "It believes everything, and takes no account of
                     that terrible 'element of failure,' which mingles with every human undertaking.
                     If any one had told me then that this beautiful girl, with the truthful eyes
                     and the smiling lips, would break my heart (excuse that cant, colonel, it is
                     expressive); that she would shipwreck me for a fancy, a chimera, without
                     listening to my defence, I would have laughed, and considered the joke
                     excellent!"
                  Landon's countenance, as he uttered these words, was inexpressibly cynical and
                     bitter. For a man to smile as the young Partisan smiled, it was necessary to
                     have passed through much and great suffering. That suffering he had evidently endured; it was
                     caused by a woman, and I listened with profound interest and attention to the
                     deep voice which told me everything.
                  Landon paused for an instant; a grim contraction of the brows followed; a
                     shadow seemed to pass across his forehead; but he continued his narrative in a
                     voice which indicated no emotion of any description whatever.
               
               
                  XXV. POISON.
                  "I TOOK Ratcliffe, as I have informed you, to visit the family at 'Chapeldale,'
                     and, having thus been introduced, he went thither frequently afterwards, not
                     seldom by himself. I did not dream of his becoming my rival. My rival? The
                     thing was impossible! Had I not informed him of my engagement; grown
                     extravagant, as young men will, over my love, my adoration, my infatuation for
                     Miss Adair? How was it possible for a gentleman to think of wooing
                     his friend's affiancée? Well, I swear to you,
                     the thought never entered my head, until one morning Miss Adair quietly
                     said:—
                  "'You have a singular friend.'
                  "'Singular?' I said.
                  "'Yes,' was her reply. 'He addressed me yesterday; you ought to know it.'
                  "She looked frightened, as she glanced at my face.
                  "'Good heavens! how pale you are!' she said; 'you are angry?'
                  
                  "'No,' I replied, and ten minutes afterwards I left her.
                  "I went back at a gallop to 'Bizarre,' hastened to Ratcliffe's room, entered,
                     and charged him with his perfidy. His reply was a good-humoured laugh, and the
                     words:—
                  "'Why, old fellow, can't you allow an inveterate flirt like myself
                     to have some fun without wanting to cut my throat for it? Do you think I for a
                     moment imagined I could cut you out with Miss Ellen? that I was in earnest? You
                     are too sensitive, old fellow, too distrustful.' And for ten minutes he poured
                     out his smiling blandishments and denials; laughing, and finally putting me in
                     a good humour again.
                  "'Well, Ratcliffe,' I said, 'I will say no more about this, but on one
                     condition,—a condition which I exact.'
                  "'What is that?' he said, smiling.
                  "'That you will never utter another word of that description to Miss Adair as
                     long as you live.'
                  "'And if I decline,' he said, laughing.
                  "Those words fired me.
                  "'Try it,' I said, 'and by Heaven, I will have your blood!'
                  "He turned white as I spoke, and a flash of anger darted from his eye. A moment
                     afterwards he forced a laugh, and said:—
                  "'All right, old fellow; but you don't mean to deny me the privilege of calling
                     on Miss Ellen?'
                  "'Certainly not,' I replied, already growing ashamed of uttering such harsh
                     words to a guest; 'but I have your promise, you understand?'
                  "'All right,' he repeated, laughing as before; and the interview
                     terminated.
                  "Going to my room," continued Landon, "I sat down and reflected. Had I not been
                     harsh and uncharitable toward Ratcliffe? The young lady doubtless exaggerated
                     his attentions, misunderstood mere 'gallantry,' and did not know that, by many
                     of her sex, such avowals as Ratcliffe had made were regarded simply as an
                     amusing pastime, meaning little. Thus I gradually regained my equanimity, and
                     when I again saw Miss Adair, informed her, with a smile, that I doubted
                     extremely whether Ratcliffe was as much in love with her as she imagined. It
                     was a brilliant jest, you see; but I do not think the young lady relished it
                     very much. She replied that her imagination had had nothing to do with the
                     matter. And as this incident occurred just as Ratcliffe and myself were about
                     to set off for West Point, I had the misery of parting with the young lady in a
                     frame of mind far less agreeable than I desired. Have you ever been what is
                     called 'in love,' friend? If so, I need not tell you that to leave the woman
                     you love with no smile upon her
                     lips, no light in her eyes, is not agreeable. It was thus I left her, to go to
                     West Point. Something like a cloud seemed to have swept across the sky
                     overshadowing the landscape. In the sequel, as you will perceive, events were
                     to occur which blackened the whole horizon of my life.
                  "I now approach the main point of my narrative. Many things remain a mystery
                     still to me, but subsequent information revealed to me an amount of diablerie on the part of my dear friend Ratcliffe,
                     which will be sufficient to give interest to my story. Many things I know; what
                     I do not know, I suspect. You shall judge if I have cause to love this man.
                  "To relate all in its order. I went to West Point, leaving my mother, my
                     sisters, and my younger brother in perfect health. Six months afterwards the
                     whole family were attacked with pneumonia; my brother and both my sisters died,
                     and my mother was brought to the brink of the grave. I hastened back at the
                     first intelligence of their illness, only in time to follow the funeral cortege
                     of the last of my sisters to the Old Chapel; then for a month I watched,
                     breathless, the progress of my mother's malady.
                  "Well, she rallied at length. I had the inexpressible happiness of seeing the
                     colour return to her cheeks. Her constitution was evidently broken, but at
                     least she was spared to me! From that moment she became a thousand times dearer
                     to me; and the love which she gave me in return even exceeded my own for
                     her.
                  "Alas!" said Landon, with flushed cheeks, and sighing wearily, "men do not know
                     the happiness of having a mother until she is dead! Then they bitterly repent
                     all their waywardness, their neglect, their absence without reason. They would
                     give all they possess to feel the pressure of the thin hand on their heated
                     brows again, to hear the dear mother's voice, and see the old, fond, caressing
                     smile!"
                  The man's heart throbbed, and his lips trembled as he spoke. This memory of his
                     mother had flushed his cheeks as he gazed at her portrait, and agitated him
                     again as he now spoke of her. It seemed the sole tie which still bound him to
                     his species, and kept the heart of this iceberg from freezing.
                  "I loved my mother," he groaned, with something like a fiery tear in the
                     haughty eyes. "No man ever loved mother more, and that wretch yonder was the
                     cause of her death!"
                  His face grew hard again as he referred to Ratcliffe. In his eye was the old,
                     grim, pitiless look; the glance of the man whose purpose is not to be
                     shaken.
                  "Listen, friend," he went on coolly, "and I will tell you how Ratcliffe thus
                     darkened my whole life. The fact was long a mystery to me; it is only
                        recently cently that I have
                     discovered the deep debt I owe him, and I hope to repay him to the last
                     farthing. Some men's memories are short, and lose everything; mine is long, and
                     loses nothing.
                  "To narrate. I returned to West Point after the death of my brother and
                     sisters, and the illness of my mother, almost broken down in spirits. One thing
                     alone consoled me,—the fond and faithful affection of the young girl to whom I
                     had given my whole heart. Her love had never failed me; seemed to deepen
                     rather, as she saw how much I suffered; and the recollection of the tenderness
                     which she exhibited for me at that time has alone preserved me from the darkest
                     cynicism, the intensest scorn and hatred for her whole sex. When I parted with
                     her, there was no cloud upon the pure and truthful brow; in her heart there was
                     nothing but love for me. It was arranged that we were to be married as soon as
                     I attained my majority; and with this to console me and light up my poor weary
                     life, I returned to finish my course at West Point.
                  "I remained there until the autumn of 1860. Then the storm began to mutter, and
                     it was plain that the Republicans would attempt to coerce the South if she
                     dared to secede from the Union. Would the Southern States do so? South
                     Carolina—the brave, the chivalrous South Carolina—first drew the sword and
                     threw away the scabbard; Virginia was plainly going to follow. As to her action
                     I never doubted; as to my own course, I did not hesitate. I never yet knew the
                     time when the flag of Virginia was not my flag before all others; when I did
                     not consider myself bound to obey the order of the Governor of Virginia before
                     that of the President of the United States; when I did not say to myself, 'I am
                     a citizen first and foremost of the sovereign nation of Virginia, and only
                     afterwards a sort of citizen of the political federation called
                     the United States.'
                  "But I weary you. To return: I came back to Virginia in the autumn of 1860, to
                     offer her my sword; and I never saw Ratcliffe again until the other day. He
                     declared his intention of remaining at the North, and 'taking no part in the
                     rebellion,'—and this alone would have broken our connection. We had already
                     grown cold, however, and even quarrelled on other grounds,—the result simply of
                     the man's utter depravity and want of principle. I have never set myself up as
                     an example to anybody, colonel, and have never had the pretension to make broad
                     my phylacteries, and thank God I am not as yonder sinner. On the contrary, I
                     lived freely,—drank, played cards, and was far from a model. But Ratcliffe was
                     a thousand times worse, and absolutely revolted me. Drunkenness, insane
                     gambling, debauchery of every description, were habitual with him. To this he
                     added a laxity in money matters, and
                     a facility in breaking his word, which gradually alienated me from him, and
                     ended by terminating our intimacy.
                  "Then, as I have since discovered, he began to hate me, and had a double reason
                     to ruin me if he could. Do you ask the meaning of the word 'double'? My reply
                     is that he was crazily in love with Miss Adair,—a fact which I have discovered,
                     like the rest, only recently.
                  "This, then, was the 'situation,' as we say in the army. I was engaged to Miss
                     Adair. Ratcliffe loved her, and hated me. Obviously, to ruin me would be to
                     gratify at once his love and his vengeance. And he nearly accomplished his
                     object.
                  "I come now to the most curious portion of my story,—Ratcliffe's mode of
                     proceeding in undermining my character and good name in an entire community.
                     His course was one full of strange cunning. By letters, both anonymous and over
                     his signature, he disseminated the most frightful calumnies in reference to me.
                     I have seen some of these letters, and it is impossible to convey to you any
                     idea of the diabolical ingenuity of the writer. I was represented as a monster.
                     My small vices were magnified into gigantic crimes; my chance games at cards
                     into wild gambling; my occasional wine-drinking into brutal drunkenness. I was
                     charged with such other vices as degrade and brutalize young men;—with utter
                     falsehood, for I was innocent; and the whole portrait thus drawn was so
                     repulsive and hateful, that those who did not know me must have shrunk in
                     horror and disgust from the moral monster thus presented to their view.
                  "When I returned to the Valley in 1860, Ratcliffe had accomplished his object,
                     or a portion of it. My best friends turned away from or looked coldly at me.
                     Does that seem fanciful, colonel? Bah! nothing that is mean is fanciful in
                     human nature! Do you think that the world is not pleased when you stumble?
                        They are standing erect and are better than you! Do you think
                     that your 'friends' believe with difficulty discreditable reports about you?
                     Undeceive yourself; they hasten to believe them, and I assure you they lose no
                     time in disseminating them,—to communicate 'bad news' is so delightful! 'No
                     news is good news,' the proverb says,—that is, people never take the trouble to
                     communicate what will make you happy; but let them only have some bad news that
                     will make you miserable,—you shall know that, if they have to arouse you at
                     midnight!
                  "Well, many persons had shocking news to tell of the reprobate St. Leger
                     Landon, the drunkard, the debauchee, the unprincipled blackguard! It was all
                     communicated under the breath, in whispers,—in the 'giggle-gabble' tone,—and
                     the whole air was poisoned. At
                     tea-drinkings, church, court, everywhere, people shook their heads, groaned,
                     lamented the shocking conduct of the last of the Landons—and pitied my poor
                     mother.
                  "My mother! there was where the arrow struck. Of Miss Adair I will speak
                     presently; but first of my mother. The kind friends whom I have mentioned did
                     not fail to put her in possession of the reports in relation to me; they would
                     not have missed the luxury of seeing her writhe, and of witnessing her agony.
                     They came to 'Bizarre;' had no pity for her pale face and trembling nerves;
                     struck her cruelly, pitilessly, as women can only strike women, and ended by
                     prostrating her upon a bed of illness. The implacable fury of the old gossips
                     had pierced the tender heart to its core, and she was overwhelmed. Since I, her
                     only child, her stay and comfort, had become thus depraved, there was no longer
                     anything in life worth living for; existence was a burden.
                  "Can you realize from these cold, colourless words, the spectacle which greeted
                     me upon my return? It was that of my mother, stretched upon the couch from
                     which she was never more to rise, writhing under the poisonous stings of those
                     female tongues,—believing that her only boy, her all, was worse than dead to
                     her! That was what greeted me as I came back to 'Bizarre' with open arms to
                     kiss my dear mother!
                  "Three months afterwards she was dead. The shock to her system from the loss of
                     her children, and all this painful emotion in addition, had brought on a return
                     of her malady. This second attack she had not been able to withstand. I
                     followed her to the Old Chapel graveyard, as I had followed my brother and my
                     sisters."
               
               
                  
                  XXVI. NAMELESS.
                  WITH compressed lips Landon resumed his narrative.
                  "I had already parted forever with Miss Adair. That abrupt announcement
                     probably surprises you, and I will briefly relate the particulars of this
                     somewhat curious occurrence. Up to the latter months of my stay at West Point,
                     no change had taken place in my relations with the young lady. Our
                     correspondence had continued uninterrupted. Her letters were all that I could
                     wish, and when the intelligence of my brother's and sisters' illness brought me
                     back to 'Bizarre,' I had found in her love, as I have said, my greatest
                     comfort. So much for my affair up to the last few months of my absence.
                  "Then everything changed. In her letters I began to discern that indefinable
                     something which cannot be described, but which indicates a change of feeling,
                     as the atmosphere indicates an approaching storm. I could not define this; it
                     eluded my vigilance when I attempted to touch it; but it was there! The love
                     was all gone out of the heart behind the hand that wrote! The next letter I
                     received was positively chilling. I wrote, demanding an explanation. None came.
                     I wrote again. The response was a sheet of paper enveloping the young lady's
                     engagement ring. Upon the sheet was written:—
                  "'Our correspondence and acquaintance end here and now. It will be useless to
                     attempt a renewal of either.'
                  "I remember the words perfectly. There are certain things written or uttered in
                     this world which burn their impress upon the heart and memory, and are
                     ineffaceable. Spoken, you hear them long years afterward. Written, you see,
                     when a quarter of a century has passed, the very page which contained them, and
                     across which they seemed dashed in flame!
                  "'Our correspondence and acquaintance end here and now!'
                  "Did I hold a pen in my hand, with a sheet of paper before me, I could trace
                     with perfect accuracy the shape of every letter in that sentence as she traced
                     them! I recall the appearance of the words, as a man recalls the page that he
                     read when labouring under some frightful grief.
                  "What made her write thus to me? Why did this honest and true heart strike
                        my heart so pitilessly lessly, and overthrow in an instant the whole fabric which I had been
                     building in the future? Why did Ellen Adair thus insult, outrage, ruin the man
                     who loved her more than he loved his own life? That is still a mystery to me.
                     Was it the result of Ratcliffe's cowardly calumnies? It is hard to believe so,
                     and yet what could have come between us but that? What other arts did he use?
                     What means did he employ? This is still the mystery of mysteries to me, and I
                     can only attribute the young lady's action to the discreditable reports in
                     regard to me, since she denied me all opportunity of defending myself.
                  "This surprises you; and it is more than surprising,—it is incredible. Truth is
                     generally incredible. But I will narrate the plain facts, without comment:—
                  "Well, I raged when I read that letter, and for days was the victim of the
                     cruellest despair. What should I do? Write again? My pride revolted from thus
                     lowering myself and coming back, like a whipped hound, to receive another cut
                     of the lash! Friend, my theory in this world is, that an honourable gentleman
                     gives much when he gives his whole heart; that a young lady owes him something
                     in return,—some consideration; that she does wrong in acting as though all the
                     giving were upon her side alone, and his love a trifling affair in comparison
                     with her caprice! I loved this young lady; but that did not give her the right
                     to outrage me thus wantonly,—to strike me cruelly, mercilessly, with insult, to
                     the very heart. Well, I swore that I would not write a line in reply,—and I did
                     not.
                  "But I writhed terribly. I was not a philosopher, only a young man very much in
                     love, and the steel pierced me to the heart. I determined to wait until I saw
                     Miss Adair in person, and I saw her when I came to Virginia in the autumn of
                     1860. Shall I describe my reception, or rather how I was not even received? No
                     sooner had I arrived at 'Bizarre' and embraced my mother, than I ordered my
                     horse, set out at full speed, passed through Millwood without drawing rein, and
                     soon found myself at Chapeldale.
                  "'Judge Adair was not at home,' a servant informed me, as I threw myself from
                     my horse, and hastened up the steps of the mansion. Judge Adair? I did not wish
                     to see Judge Adair, I responded; where was Miss Adair? The servant looked
                     confused. He would go and inquire, he said. He went, remained away a few
                     minutes, and returning, said, 'Miss Ellen begged to be excused,—she had a
                     headache.' I remember staring vacantly in the face of the old gray-haired
                     servant, who knew and loved me; his agitation and confusion were greater than
                     my own even. Then I flushed to the
                     temples, wheeled abruptly, and went away furious, resolved that I would never
                     return.
                  "I returned on the next day. Cold and stern, expecting my fate, and looking it
                     in the face, I again knocked at the door. The same old gray-haired servant
                     appeared, and I again asked for the young lady. This time he had not to leave
                     me in order to go and receive Miss Adair's response to my summons. With a
                     countenance which indicated the deepest respect and sympathy, the old servant
                     delivered the message with which he had been intrusted. My visit had thus been
                     foreseen, and Miss Adair evidently intended that it should be the last. This
                     time there was no allusion made to a headache. Miss Adair's response in
                     advance, to my morning call, was simply to the effect that it was not her
                     intention to come downstairs and see Mr. St. Leger Landon.
                  "Well, that ended everything, you see. I listened to the words quietly, left
                     the mansion, and, mounting my horse, returned to 'Bizarre,' swearing in my
                     heart that I would never again darken the doors of a house in which I had been
                     wantonly outraged; and this time I have kept my oath. From that time to the
                     other day, or night rather, at the Chapel, I have never even seen the young
                     lady, nor do I ever intend again to see her if I can avoid it.
                  "Enough of that; let me finish my sorrowful history, colonel. This final
                     rupture with Miss Adair took place as soon as I reached Virginia; but a few
                     weeks afterwards events occurred at 'Bizarre' which made me lose sight of all
                     else. My mother's illness, pneumonia, combined with a nervous disorder,
                     produced by these calumnies which I have mentioned, grew rapidly more
                     threatening. A month afterwards she was evidently sinking; and one night, when
                     she placed her feeble arms around me, I felt her head fall upon my bosom,—she
                     was dead!"
                  Landon uttered a hoarse sob as he spoke, and turned away. Something in my own
                     throat seemed choking me. To witness the emotion of this man of marble was a
                     terrible spectacle.
                  "You see they had killed her!" he muttered in a low, deep voice; "they had told
                     her I was a wretch, and broken her heart. True, a word from me had been
                     sufficient to brand that lie, and undo the whole devilish plot against me. The
                     mother's heart was soft, if the heart of my betrothed was hard; but the work
                     was done, and my poor, fond mother had no more strength even to be happy! She
                     died in my arms, with her head upon my bosom, and sleeps yonder in the Old
                     Chapel, where I hope some day to lie beside her.
                  "Well, such were the events of the fall and winter of 1860, colonel. I was
                     alone at 'Bizarre,' a mere wreck, no longer like myself. A double chord had snapped in my breast, and I was
                     desperate. First had come the terrible result of my affair with Miss Adair: the
                     woman I loved had thrown me away like a worthless glove, split and useless;
                     and, dead as she was to me, attempt as I might to forget her, every object
                     reminded me of her; everything recalled her. At 'Bizarre,' where she had been
                     often, for she was a great favourite with my mother, there was scarce a piece
                     of furniture, a book, a wicker chair on the lawn, which I did not associate
                     with her. Over every walk we had strolled together, over every country road we
                     had ridden, and here, at Lover's Leap, we had twenty times conversed. Here,
                     sitting on this very rock, she looked at me as women only look at the men they
                     love; here her delicious voice had rung clearly in the sunset, and we had
                     passed long hours, with the pines whispering above, the river murmuring
                     beneath, watching the clouds which floated over us, all gold in the light of
                     sunset. I loved that woman! God help me, but I believe I love her still!"
                  Landon paused, his cheeks glowing, his eyes flashing.
                  "Good!" he said in a moment, with his sardonic smile. "I am growing poetical,
                     colonel. I am talking about eyes and sighs; let us leave all that flummery, and
                     come back to events. My narrative will be ended very soon now.
                  "The last blow, as I said, was my mother's death, and I dare not attempt to
                     describe the void left by that. I can tell you how I missed
                     everywhere the presence of the woman I loved; but I cannot speak of my feelings
                     when I looked round the old deserted house of 'Bizarre,' and heard a voice say,
                     'Your mother is gone!' You can replace your betrothed, even your wife,—that
                     happens, though I think it would not to me,—but there is something which you
                     cannot replace,—the smile of the face which bent over you when you were a
                     helpless babe in arms. God gives that once, and only once. And he had taken it
                     from me forever.
                  "Well, in the spring of 1861, things had come to a bad pass with me. My mother
                     was dead; the woman I loved had thrown me away; I was alone,—seemed even to
                     have no friends. On all sides I saw cold looks, heard cold voices, and touched
                     cold hands. I cared little; grief had stunned me; but the strange fact was that
                     I could not discover the origin of this coldness, or solve the mystery.
                     Everybody avoided me; I was an outlaw, apparently, and at last the pride and
                     disdain of my character rose up and spurred me to a wild rage. I tried to find
                     some one to insult and fight; but, alas! I had not even that consolation. I
                     could find no enemy, only people who bowed coldly; and I went back to
                     'Bizarre,' torn by wrath, misery, and despair. That dishonour should be imputed to a descendant of
                     the Landons! That my father's son should be supposed even to have soiled his
                     noble name! The thought was bitter, almost intolerable.
                  "I writhed under it; then the war broke out. I joined the army; and you now
                     know, colonel, why I took my mother's name of St. Leger, under which you first
                     met me. To that name, at least, I was entitled.
                  "The rest of my story need not detain you. I had just received my commission of
                     captain of cavalry, a year ago, when we rode together through the barricade
                     near Manassas. You will ask what had become of Ratcliffe. The response is easy.
                     He had always been northern in his sentiments; remained at West Point and
                     graduated; joined the enemy, and was sent to serve in Missouri, where I heard
                     he was killed in 1862.
                  "To end my narrative. Tired of the regular service, I resigned my commission
                     last spring; raised a company of Partisans, and came to operate against
                     Sheridan in the Valley here. With my former friends I have had nothing to do;
                     from the first I held myself aloof from them; but one of them stopped me one
                     day, and kindly volunteered at the eleventh hour to state a few facts for my
                     information. Then I knew, for the first time, the extent of my obligations to
                     Ratcliffe. My informant not only laid bare the plot against me, but exhibited
                     two or three letters in Ratcliffe's handwriting, which, if believed, were
                     sufficient to ruin me a hundred times in the estimation of virtuous people.
                     That was a month or two ago. You were present at the skirmish yonder when I
                     found that Ratcliffe was not dead; crossed sabres with him; and came near
                     settling our account with him then and there. What has followed you know. At
                     last my foe is in my power; he shall fight me fairly, man to man, in honourable
                     combat; but before that combat takes place, I shall have a private interview
                     with him,—an interview in which many things will be discussed, I promise
                     you.
                  "Enough, colonel," said Landon; "let us return; I am anxious to look after my
                     dear guest. I took his parole with repugnance, and under compulsion; I distrust
                     him. Were he to break it, I would miss one of the few enjoyments that I promise
                     myself in life,—that of standing face to face with him, and sending a bullet or
                     a sword's point through the cowardly heart that has worked my misery!"
                  Suddenly rapid hoof-strokes resounded from the pines in the direction of the
                     mansion; and one of the Rangers appeared, approaching at full speed.
                  "What is it?" said Landon, quickly.
                  "The Yankee captain has escaped!" exclaimed the man.
                  
                  "Escaped!"
                  And Landon rose erect with one bound, his eyes flaming.
                  "Yes, captain. You know he was paroled. Well, he walked out coolly to the
                     woods, mounted a horse, and was half a mile off before we knew it. A dozen of
                     us chased him, but he got off."
                  Landon's teeth were set together; his brows contracted.
                  "And the lieutenant?" he said; "he was also paroled."
                  "He is all right, captain. He says the Yankee captain is a liar and a
                     coward."
                  Landon's lip curled bitterly.
                  "I could have told him that," he muttered.
                  And, turning to me:—
                  "Come, colonel," he said, "let us go back. The indulgence of this fit of
                     egotism has cost me dear!"
               
               
                  XXVII. "A TRUMP."
                  IN five minutes we were again at "Bizarre."
                  On the porch of the mansion stood Lieutenant Ralph Arden, his brow gloomy, his
                     arms folded, and I have never seen an expression of deeper shame and
                     mortification upon human countenance.
                  "Place me under guard, Captain Landon!" he said, abruptly, as we approached.
                     "That man has dishonoured himself—his uniform—me—every officer in the Federal
                     army! You paroled him to meet you in honourable combat; he has sneaked off like
                     a coward; and I was his second! He has broken his parole like a vulgar
                     blackguard! I, too, am paroled; I may break mine! I surrender that
                     parole—now—instantly!"
                  Landon looked keenly at the young officer.
                  "You are Harry Arden's brother?" he said.
                  "I am."
                  "That is enough. Mount your horse and report to General Early at
                     Winchester."
                  An obstinate shake of the head was the young officer's reply.
                  
                  "You refuse?"
                  "I do."
                  "So be it. Lieutenant Arden, you will be responsible for your brother to-night.
                     To-morrow I will send him under guard to Winchester."
                  And Landon entered the mansion, silent and gloomy. I remained behind with the
                     young men.
                  "O Harry!" I heard the young Federal officer say,—his brows contracted, his
                     eyes wet with tears of shame,—"that ever I should come to this, and be thus
                     degraded!"
                  And like one "refusing to be comforted" the unfortunate victim of the astute
                     Ratcliffe turned away in silence.
                  "Well, guard me, Harry!" he added, with a bitter smile; "who knows but I may
                     trick you and escape before morning?"
                  And, leaning on the shoulder of his brother, he entered the house.
                  An hour afterward I had thrown myself on a couch, wrapped my cape around me,
                     and was asleep. The last sounds which I heard were the voices of the two
                     brothers, as they murmured a hundred recollections of youth and home. There was
                     an unspeakably tender music in the accents of the two youths, as there was
                     something strangely pathetic in their fate. To-morrow they might meet each
                     other, sabre to sabre, and shed each other's blood; to-night they were
                     whispering, like children, in each other's arms!
                  On the next morning Harry Arden formally reported with his prisoner to Landon,
                     and the prisoner still insisting upon surrendering his parole, he was
                     despatched under guard of two men to Early's headquarters.
                  The three left "Bizarre" about noon. At six in the evening a melancholy and
                     "shame-faced" pair of Night-Hawks reappeared. Their heads hung down; their
                     uniforms were bloody.
                  "Well!" said Landon.
                  "He's got off, captain," groaned one; "escaped—gone!"
                  "Clean gone, captain!" moaned the other.
                  A few words conveyed the whole melancholy story. Half way to Winchester, Arden
                     had wrested a pistol from one of his guards, wounded both of them severely, and
                     succeeded in effecting his escape.
                  Landon turned to Harry Arden with a smile of grim admiration.
                  "Decidedly, your brother is a trump!" he said. "You ought to be proud of
                     him!"
               
               
                  
                  XXVIII. ONE OF THE BRIGHT SPOTS IN MY MEMORY.
                  ON the next morning I set out from "Bizarre," and crossing the Shenandoah, by
                     placing my saddle in a skiff, and swimming my horse, proceeded, by way of
                     Ashby's Gap, to Fauquier, where I expected to find, and inspect, the Partisans
                     of Mosby.
                  This duty I determined should be performed as soon as possible. I was anxious
                     to return to Landon, who had evidently resolved upon some hazardous expedition.
                     He had informed me, however, that he would remain at "Bizarre" for three or
                     four days to rest his horses; and I promised myself that I would return, if
                     possible, before he again moved.
                  I have attempted in this episode of my memoirs to confine myself as closely as possible to the curious
                     events connected with the history of Landon. Were I writing a romance, indeed,
                     "St. Leger Landon" would be an appropriate title for these pages; and,
                     doubtless, this introduction of a central figure gives my narrative an interest
                     more human and dramatic than could otherwise be secured. Am I wrong in so
                     thinking, friend? I think I am not. So I shall not dwell upon my visit to
                     "Mosby and his men."
                  At some other time I will attempt, perhaps, a picture of those joyous
                     Partisans, and describe their free life amid the mountains, in the forests, or
                     scouring the great roads. It was a branch of the service wholly different from
                     the rest; between the Partisans and the troops of the regular army there were
                     few points of resemblance, save their common courage, their common cause, and
                     the common enrolment of all as soldiers of the Confederate States, fighting
                     under the Confederate flag.
                  To-day I cannot describe the Partisans, or their lithe and "dangerous"
                     commander, with his gray, loving eyes, his smile, revealing
                     the white teeth, his brief words of command, and his daring soul. Imagine this
                     King of the Rangers, amid the great forests of Fauquier, with his horse saddled
                     near, and his gay followers around him. Hear the jests and laughter; see them
                     mount and away; hear the crack of their pistols; see the long string of blue
                     prisoners, the "U.S." wagons, the numberless mules captured. You will say that
                     these men are good soldiers, who fight fairly, pistol to pistol; but read the
                     Northern newspapers and you will discover that they are outlaws.
                  Or you would have discovered that in the good year 1864. Now the smoke has
                     drifted. The world sees that these
                     men were soldiers! And when their commander, Colonel Mosby, visits
                     the Gold Room in Wall Street, some of the worthiest of his old foes shake his
                     hand, and say, "Welcome!"
                  I found Mosby below Piedmont; inspected his command, which had just assembled
                     for a raid toward Alexandria; and on the next morning set out on my return to
                     the Valley.
                  I had hoped to reach the vicinity of Millwood on the same evening; but you know
                     when you set out, you do not know when you will arrive.
                  Near Upperville I met my friend, Captain D——, who insisted that I should go and
                     dine with him; and the afternoon found me still enthralled by his charming
                     household. Then I was urged to attend a wedding festival at a neighbouring
                     mansion, "B——;" and, yielding to the kind persistence of some irresistible
                     personages, I went.
                  I wish I could describe that charming evening and that wonderful supper! Ah! my
                     dear reader, there is a lurking vice in this life of peace; it destroys the
                     magical effect of contrasts. I had been living for a long time
                     upon about a quarter of a pound of rancid bacon and some musty meal. I had
                     partaken of that imposing banquet from a tin plate, on the lid of a camp-chest.
                     Worse than all, I had seen around me only gray uniforms and male human beings.
                     And now, as though by magic, I had entered a different world.
                  All around me, at the hospitable mansion of Mrs.——, I saw bright eyes, rosy
                     cheeks, smiling lips, and braided hair. Round arms abounded, encircled with
                     bracelets and draped with lace. White necks swam in "illusion" like heaps of
                     snowy roses, tinted with sunset. And then the supper!—the wondrous supper! O
                     supper to be ever remembered! Rich viands, roasts, and stews; immense pyramids
                     of ice-cream; cakes, jellies, candied orange, blanc-mange, meringues;
                        real coffee! and actual white sugar and cream!
                  When afterwards I described that supper to my comrades, they smiled and nodded
                     politely, but said nothing. They were too polite to contradict me; but I could
                     see that I had made shipwreck of my character for veracity, and was regarded,
                     in Shakespearian phrase, as a "measureless liar!"
                  In truth, that was a notable spectacle on the Virginia border in 1864. Happy
                     was the wandering staff-officer who partook of those delicacies; happier still
                     in conducting the fair young bride to supper; the sweet and kindly eyes,
                     shining under the floating snow of the long veil and the bridal wreath.
                  But no human happiness is without alloy. Suddenly a check was put to the
                     merrymaking.
                  
                  I observed a stir in the company; whispered words passed about; the guests
                     flowed toward the door; and then I heard, for the first time, the hurried
                     words, "The Yankees are coming!"
                  The effect of this announcement was disagreeable. The wedding festival was
                     brought to an untimely end. I returned with my fair companion to the
                     drawing-room, and said to an acquaintance:—
                  "What is the origin of the alarm?"
                  The old gentleman whom I addressed, and who was busily looking for his hat,
                     laughed and hurriedly replied:—
                  "Some of Mosby's men report that the Yankees are rapidly advancing from
                     Middleburg. They are expected at Upperville in half an hour. You soldiers had
                     better get away from here!"
                  And he hastened to the door. The alarm had now become general, and the guests
                     were rolling off in their vehicles, or hastily cantering homeward on their
                     horses.
                  I came last, with my friend Captain D——, having made my bow to the bride, and
                     received a pressure of the small white hand, and a bright smile which lit up
                     the rosy face like sunshine.
                  Pardon my poor compliment, madam; and the roses which bloomed that night,—may
                     they never fade, or turn to lilies!
                  Riding back to my friend's mansion, between Upperville and Middleburg, I
                     declined his invitation to remain all night, and, resuming my arms, which I had
                     left there, turned the head of my horse once more toward Ashby's Gap.
               
               
                  
                  XXIX. BLOUNT'S SECRET.
                  IT was two in the morning, and I never saw a darker night. The hoof-strokes of
                     my horse on the turnpike sounded weird and ghostly. I must have resembled a
                     phantom horseman traversing a world of silence.
                  An hour afterwards, travelling leisurely, I passed through the quiet and
                     apparently deserted village of Paris, where not even a yelping cur greeted me,
                     and slowly continued my way up the mountain.
                  All at once, as I reached the summit, near the "Big Poplar," a shadow detached
                     itself from the tree, and, advancing rapidly, took the shape of a mounted man,
                     pistol in hand.
                  "Halt! Who goes there?" said the shadow.
                  "A friend; that is to say, if you are a friend of The South," I replied.
                  "Advance, friend; you answer straight out."
                  "Because I know that there are no Yankees about here. I am Colonel Surry, of
                     General Lee's army. What command is yours?"
                  "Captain Blount's, colonel."
                  "I know him,—and am glad I know him. Where is he?"
                  "Here, colonel."
                  And a second shadow—this time on foot—came out from beheath the "Big Poplar." I
                     had already recognized Blount.
                  "Dismount, and come and rest yourself," he said, pressing my hand, and speaking
                     in his deep, sad voice; "you ride late, my dear colonel, and must be tired.
                     Come."
                  "Willingly, my dear captain," I said.
                  And, dismounting, I walked toward the poplar. Blount had taken the bridle of my
                     horse, and now tethered him to a bough. A moment afterwards we were seated
                     beside a glimmering picket-fire. No other human being was visible.
                  "You seem to be keeping 'lonely watch' tonight, captain," I said, with a smile.
                     "Where is your command?"
                  "Oh! not far," he said; "they are sleeping yonder in that clump of trees. I
                     will not move until sunrise."
                  "You are going—"
                  "On an expedition toward Berryville; and I don't wish to make the attack I
                     intend until to-morrow night. So I am not in a hurry."
                  "I see. I am very glad I have met you."
                  "Thanks, colonel."
                  
                  And Blount inclined with sad but exquisite courtesy. A tongue of flame had
                     caught a bundle of twigs near, and, by the light streaming up, I could see the
                     calm, noble face, the graceful figure, in its close-fitting gray uniform; the
                     cavalry-boots fitting to the high and aristocratic instep, and the light sabre
                     balancing the revolver. Under the brown hat with its gold cord shone the grave,
                     soft eyes, and I could see the sad smile plainly. It was hard to realize that
                     this man was one of those iron souls who shrink from nothing.
                  We entered into conversation, for I was not sleepy, and my companion seemed not
                     to need rest. A few words explained my errand to Fauquier, and described the
                     wedding party.
                  Blount remained silent for a moment.
                  "I have heard no firing toward Upperville," he said, at length, "and it is
                     probable that the enemy have not come that high up. It is a pity the wedding
                     party should have been interrupted,—a great pity."
                  "You say that," I said, smiling, "as if you remembered your own, and
                     sympathized with Mr. and Mrs. ——"
                  Blount's head sank.
                  "I have never been married," he said. "No, no, colonel,—that has been spared
                     me."
                  "Spared you! Pardon me, but the future would seem to indicate a very great
                     indisposition to matrimony."
                  "It expresses my sentiment."
                  "You do not covet 'connubial felicity,' then, as the poets call it. Or perhaps
                     you do not admire the female sex."
                  "They have worked my greatest woe, colonel."
                  "Women?"
                  "One, at least."
                  The words were uttered in a tone of the profoundest sadness. For some moments I
                     said nothing. Then, thinking of the true face which had shone upon me in
                     Winchester:—
                  "Oh! you do them injustice," I said; "these poor women, so much maligned,
                     captain. They are thoughtless, they are capricious, but they are pure gold
                     under all."
                  Something stern and bitter came to the face of Blount.
                  "I am glad your experience is such, colonel. It has not been mine," he
                     said.
                  "You are a woman-hater, then?"
                  "No; I do not hate them. My sentiment is different."
                  I bowed my head, and could only murmur:—
                  "Something has wounded you deeply, and makes you commit a terrible injustice,
                     captain."
                  Blount's eye flashed.
                  
                  "An injustice, colonel! No, I am just. I am not a stern or unkind person; I
                     would cut off my right hand before I would wrong a human being; but do not ask
                     me to have any respect for women."
                  He paused and his flushed face was both sad and lowering.
                  "I surprise you," he said, "but my life has been sorrowful. I am not fond of
                     confidences, colonel, but something in you wins it. Hear me say a few words
                     then. Suppose yourself young and unsuspecting,—suppose you love a young girl
                     who appears the soul of truth and honour,—suppose she plights you her troth,
                     looks at you with eyes swimming in tears of tenderness, tells you a thousand
                     times that you are dearer to her than the very lifeblood of her heart, and then
                     betrays you, deceives you, shipwrecks your life! Suppose that! and then say if
                     the betrayed person can respect women?"
                  For a moment I could not reply. Blount's tones were terrible.
                  "That is a romance you relate," I murmured.
                  "It is the truth," he replied. "Antoinette Du —— Pshaw! here I am giving real
                     names! Let us speak of something else, colonel. This moves me beyond my
                     wont."
                  And, passing his hand over his brow, Blount seemed to clear away all the mists
                     of rising anger which had obscured his sight.
                  "I didn't intend to say so much, colonel," he went on sadly; "and I trust you
                     will pardon me. These old wounds will reopen sometimes. Look upon all this as
                     'a romance'!"—your word,—and let us speak of other things."
                  "Well, captain, but your words cause me unaffected sorrow."
                  "That is my mood habitually, colonel," he said, smiling. "I am not gay, and
                     least of all to-night."
                  "Something troubles you."
                  "I have a presentiment."
                  "A presentiment?"
                  Blount laughed; but his laugh was not gay.
                  "That I am going to die."
                  "Pshaw! banish all these chimeras, captain. God does not forewarn men. He
                     strikes them when their hour comes, and they fall. Let us be ready, but not
                     fearful."
                  Blount's face became calm, his eyes full of a sweet and grave kindness.
                  "You are right, friend," he said, "and I thank you for these words. I try to do
                     my duty and leave the rest to my Creator. I sin against him often. I am ashamed
                     of it, and try to reform. The enemy drove me yonder lately in a fight near the
                     river, and I was so enraged at their running before the young ladies who had
                     come out on the lawn, that I cursed and swore at them like a vulgar fellow. On the next day I was ashamed, and
                     went and begged the young ladies to pardon me. I have already asked pardon of
                     God, colonel, and hope he will forgive everything, for I am going to die soon.
                     Now let us not talk further of that. Tell me of Petersburg, the chance there,
                     and what you think of the war?"
                  Blount evidently desired to change the subject, and we accordingly spoke of
                     public events. Half an hour afterwards we were asleep, lying wrapped in our
                     capes by the camp-fire.
                  At sunrise the troop was moving, and I parted with Blount at the river, where
                     we swam our horses,—he proceeding down the left bank, I toward "Bizarre."
                  His last words to me, were: "Forget my foolish talk last night, colonel! but I
                     will remember your words."
                  "My words?" I said.
                  "As to the fates of men, 'He strikes them when their hour comes, and they
                        fall. Let us be ready, but not fearful.'"
                  A grave, sweet smile accompanied the words, and, waving his hand with exquisite
                     grace and courtesy, Blount disappeared at the head of his troop in the
                     forest.
                  Half an hour afterwards I was at "Bizarre," and had exchanged a
                     close pressure of the hand with Landon.
               
               
                  XXX. TOUCH-AND-GO.
                  I HAD returned within the time; and the reader will not fail to comprehend the
                     grounds of my anxiety to see "Bizarre" again.
                  Landon's narrative had produced a profound impression upon me. This young
                     Virginian, so bitter and cynical at twenty-five, and pursuing with so much
                     ardour his private vengeance, attracted me irresistibly, and I experienced an
                     uncontrollable desire to see him again, and be present at that denouement of his affair with Ratcliffe, which,
                     something told me, would not long be delayed.
                  The main attraction, however, was Landon himself. He had powerfully aroused my
                     sympathy. This life darkened in its dawn; this love and friendship both
                     betrayed; those friends turning coldly from the young man, who, thus wounded
                     mortally in his pride and his heart, had permitted the venom of misanthropy to
                     filtrate, drop by drop, into his blood,—all this made up an absorbing
                     spectacle.
                  "Bah! nothing that is mean is fanciful in human nature!"
                  
                  Those words had expressed all. Stern moralists might have shaken their heads
                     and muttered "Monster!" For my part, I sighed and felt a strong sympathy for
                     the monster!
                  On reaching "Bizarre," I was cordially greeted, as I have said, by Landon, who
                     informed me that I had arrived just in time, as he was going to set out, on the
                     next morning, on a scout toward Berryville.
                  "After Ratcliffe?"
                  "Always," he replied, coolly. "He is at work again, and this time is burning
                     houses over the heads of women and children."
                  "Your scouts keep you well informed, I suppose?"
                  "Yes, especially Touch-and-go. By-the-by, that is a remarkable person, colonel.
                     Have you noticed him?"
                  "Two or three times, and he appears to be a character."
                  "A very curious one. He seems to have a private account to settle with the
                     enemy."
                  "You do not know his history?"
                  "I am wholly ignorant of it, and can only tell you that he is a perfect tiger
                     in presence of the blue people. He seems to have dedicated his life to the work
                     of killing as many of them as possible, and his 'account' is kept in a
                     decidedly original fashion."
                  "His 'account'?"
                  "I mean of the men he kills. He keeps a string, ties a knot in it whenever he
                     kills an opponent, and I assure you it is already a knotty affair."
                  Landon had scarcely uttered the words when the door opened, and Touch-and-go
                     came in silently, saluting as he did so. His boyish face wore its habitual
                     expression of mildness; his voice, as he saluted Landon, was low and soft; in
                     his hand he carried the string referred to; and as he entered he was tying a
                     knot in it.
                  All at once I remembered seeing him perform that operation twice before: the
                     first time on the night of our attack at the Chapel, just after he had shot the
                     vidette, and again on the day when Ratcliffe was captured, when he had dashed
                     out the brains of the picket at the gate with his own carbine.
                  Touch-and-go was evidently "settling his account" very steadily, for the string
                     was nearly full of knots. To the number, as I have said, he had just added a
                     new one, after which he quietly restored the string to his pocket, and made his
                     report to Landon. He had penetrated the Federal lines, visited Sheridan's
                     headquarters, seen houses burning in every direction, and observed every
                     indication of some important movement on the part of the enemy.
                  "Good!" said Landon, "I think they are going to attack Early at last."
                  Touch-and-go waited silently to be addressed.
                  
                  "Anything further, captain?" he said at length.
                  "Nothing; be ready to move with me at dawn."
                  Touch-and-go saluted, and was stealthily retiring, when I said:—
                  "You killed a man this evening,—did you not?"
                  "Yes, colonel," he replied, quietly, "near Berryville. I shot him through the
                     heart."
                  "That is another knot in your string."
                  "Yes, colonel."
                  "Another item in your account settled."
                  "I see the captain has been talking about me, colonel."
                  "Yes, but he does not know your history. Is it a mystery, Touch-and-go? If not,
                     it would interest me."
                  "It is no mystery, colonel. My old father and mother were burnt out by Hunter's
                     people, on a cold and rainy night last spring. They were all night exposed
                     without shelter, and crouching in a fence corner, to the storm; and a month
                     afterwards they were dead from typhoid fever. I was in the army at the time,
                     but got off long enough to see them buried decently. Since then I have been
                     alone in the world, and have been trying to kill as many Yankees as I can. I
                     have killed forty-eight that I know of. Before I am killed myself I hope to
                     make it a hundred."
                  I looked at the boy who uttered these words, full of calmness and
                     simplicity.
                  "Do you expect to be killed, Touch-and-go?" I asked.
                  "Yes, colonel. The war is getting to be a bloody affair. I think we will all be
                     killed—if we do our duty."
                  "You are right," I said.
                  "I try to do mine, colonel, and I believe it is to kill Yankees. Forty-eight is
                     not many; I wish it was ten thousand. But I hope to make it a hundred."
                  And waiting an instant to ascertain if Landon had any additional orders, the
                     boy saluted modestly, and quietly left the apartment.
                  "What a war!" I said, as the youth disappeared; "the very children are
                     desperate, and this one seems perfectly fearless."
                  "I think he never experienced the emotion," Landon replied; "and he is as pious
                     as he seems blood-thirsty. He never utters an oath, reads his Bible, says his
                     prayers, and is a model of sweet temper and kindness."
                  As Landon spoke, a knock came at the door, and one of the men entered.
                  "Here is a deserter, captain," he said, saluting; "he says he belongs to
                     Captain Ratcliffe's command, aud must see you."
                  
                  "To Ratcliffe's?"
                  "He was his orderly, he says."
                  "Send him in," said Landon, "and be ready with a rope there to hang him!"
                  The man saluted and left the apartment. I gazed at Landon with some
                     astonishment.
                  "To hang him!" I exclaimed, as the door closed. Landon nodded.
                  "I see you are not familiar with the devices of our blue friends in this
                     region, colonel. Civilized warfare is too tame for them; they improve upon it.
                     To wear blue coats and fight fairly is too stupid; so they dress whole
                     companies of 'Jesse Scouts' in Confederate gray to deceive us."
                  "But—"
                  "This deserter? He is sent, ten to one, by Ratcliffe. You have had a specimen
                     of that worthy's courage; you have here, probably, a specimen of his finesse. He despairs doubtless of whipping me; he
                     aims at entrapping me. His orderly deserts to me, discovers my numbers,
                     halting-places, everything; then slips off some night, returns to Ratcliffe,
                     and before morning I am surprised, attacked, and cut to pieces, five against
                     one, without warning, all in consequence of having listened with confiding
                     simplicity to his emissary."
                  "You are right."
                  "I think so. The trick is stale and will not fool me."
                  "You will hang this boy?"
                  "Is he a boy?"
                  "Yes; I saw him that night at Chapeldale, and he brought Ratcliffe's detachment
                     in pursuit."
                  "Well, you see he is the confidential orderly, emissary, spy of his master. My
                     rope is going to be put in requisition in twenty minutes."
                  As he spoke, the door opened and the deserter was ushered in.
               
               
                  
                  XXXI. THE DESERTER.
                  IT was, in fact, the young orderly who had fired upon me that night at
                     Chapeldale, and then mounted and escaped. I saw before me the same brilliant
                     black eyes; the same mocking smile on the red lips; the same rosy cheeks and
                     rounded outlines.
                  The youth was clad in a handsome uniform, consisting of ample blue pantaloons,
                     falling over small and delicate boots; a full roundabout with bright buttons,
                     and dazzling chevrons on the sleeves; a light waistcoat, fitting
                     closely to the figure; and over the broad white brow, edged with short auburn
                     curls, fell the ample rim of a blue cavalry hat, with a golden cord around
                     it.
                  Such was the costume of the boy,—half private's, half officer's. It was his
                     mode of wearing it, however, which attracted most attention. Never did costume
                     sit more jauntily upon human being; never had I realized so completely the gay
                        vivandière of the French comedy.
                     Everything about the boy was feminine and coquettish; no other words convey the
                     idea. And, as the reader will soon perceive ceive, there was the best reason in
                     the world for the phenomenon in question.
                  The young deserter advanced straight into the apartment, and distributed a
                     comprehensive smile, which had in it something decidedly satirical. Instead of
                     being abashed, he appeared completely at his ease, and returned Landon's cold
                     glance with a sang froid which was
                     incomprehensible.
                  "Who are you?" said the Partisan, coldly.
                  "A deserter at your service; from Captain Ratcliffe's company," was the
                     reply.
                  The voice was low and musical; the accent decidedly French.
                  "Your name?" continued Landon, as coldly as before.
                  The deserter looked around. On his lips the mocking smile grew more
                     defined.
                  "Would you like to know?"
                  "Since I ask you,—speak!"
                  "Dismiss that man."
                  And the boy pointed coolly to the guard standing behind him.
                  "Good!" said Landon; "the comedy grows decidedly amusing. You dictate orders at
                     my headquarters; but no matter."
                  And with a movement of his hand he dismissed the guard, who went out, closing
                     the door behind him.
                  
                  "Now, request this gentleman to retire in his turn."
                  "Speak in his presence," said Landon.
                  The deserter looked fixedly at the Partisan.
                  "I may speak before him of your most private affairs?"
                  "My private affairs! You? Yes; they are all known to him."
                  "Very good," was the cool answer. "First you asked my name, I think?"
                  "Yes."
                  "My name is Antoinette Duvarny."
                  And the speaker calmly sat down in an arm-chair opposite Landon.
                  At the words "My name is Antoinette Duvarny" I could not suppress a start. The
                     words of Blount suddenly returned to my memory. "Antoinette Du—pshaw! here I am
                     giving real names." Could the person before me be a woman,—and by any
                     possibility that woman of whom Blount had spoken? Had this singular "deserter"
                     played the main part in that tragic drama which had overshadowed the life of so
                     brave and noble a gentleman? The fact seemed incredible; but there was the
                     astonishing similarity of name. "Antoinette Du—" could be no one beside
                     "Antoinette Duvarny," I said to myself.
                  I was thus reflecting, when the woman resumed, with a laugh, which displayed a
                     set of pearly teeth, "My sex gives me permission to drop ceremony, my dear
                     Captain Landon, and I am sure that such a gallant gentleman as yourself would
                     never keep a lady standing."
                  Landon was gazing at her keenly.
                  "Then you are a woman?" he said.
                  "At your service."
                  "Your object in deserting?"
                  "To reach you."
                  "Why?"
                  The deserter smiled.
                  "To betray you, of course. Are they not preparing the rope yonder to hang me as
                     soon as our little talk is over?"
                  "That was not your design, then?"
                  The deserter shrugged her shoulders.
                  "No; something very different."
                  "Speak plainly."
                  "With pleasure. Well, in coming to make you a visit, my dear Captain Landon, I
                     am prompted by a sentiment which is said to be powerful with women when it
                     gains possession of them,—the sentiment, namely, of vengeance."
                  "Vengeance?"
                  "Precisely; and upon one whom I hate bitterly,—a dear common friend of
                     ours."
                  Landon was silent, gazing at the speaker. His glance seemed piercing enough to penetrate her
                     soul.
                  "You mean Captain Ratcliffe?"
                  "Yes."
                  "You hate him?"
                  "For the last month, bitterly."
                  "You would avenge some wrong upon him?"
                  "Yes, by telling you, his enemy, what will send you on his track; make you hunt
                     him day and night; keep you from eating, drinking, sleeping, until you have his
                     blood."
                  A flash darted from the black eyes. It was easy to see that there was not the
                     least acting in this person. Never was hatred more clearly expressed in mortal
                     face.
                  Landon's cheeks filled with blood; his eyes glowed.
                  "Speak!" he said, in an imperious voice. "I am listening."
                  And his dark eyes were riveted upon the countenance of the deserter.
               
               
                  XXXII. ANTOINETTE DUVARNY.
                  THE deserter greeted Landon's threatening glance and address with perfect
                     nonchalance.
                  "A moment," she said, stretching out carelessly a small foot in the most
                     delicate boot imaginable. "Monsieur seems really about to eat me! Fie! that is
                     not gallant to a lady."
                  Landon leaned his elbow upon the table beside him, rested his forehead upon his
                     hand, and awaited in gloomy silence.
                  "Eh bien!" said the deserter, in her
                     satirical voice; "that is better. You are more reasonable, my dear Captain
                     Landon. I see that you have made up your mind to listen to my highly
                     interesting communication without interruption; and I assure you that there are
                     certain portions of it which will tax your self-control to the utmost."
                  Landon made no reply; he listened. The deserter continued:—
                  "I have referred to Ratcliffe as your enemy. What if I tell you that
                        I have been an enemy a thousand times more deadly,—though
                     inspired by no rancour at all toward
                        you? Such is the fact, Captain Landon. I come here in the midst
                     of your 'Night Hawks,' where your will is law, to tell you that; and I do so
                     because I know you to be a brave man and a gentleman,—not the base, petty
                     tyrant I have left yonder.
                  "Listen, sir," continued the deserter, with a bitter smile,—"listen, and I will
                     relate a very curious series of events for your entertainment. They would
                     interest the most indifferent, for I swear to you they are singular; they will
                     interest, above all, Captain St. Leger Landon, for they explain how Miss Adair
                     came to break his heart."
                  "Miss Adair!"
                  "And her own nearly, at the same moment," added the deserter.
                  Landon shuddered. In his white face his eyes resembled two red hot coals.
                  "Speak!" he muttered, hoarsely.
                  "You will not interrupt me?"
                  "I will not."
                  "Then listen," continued the deserter, coolly, "and I will tell you everything.
                     My object in revealing all this will appear later.
                  "Let us go back, if you please, Monsieur Landon, to the year 1860, at which
                     time you and this dear Ratcliffe were fellow-students at West Point, and I was
                     residing in a village not far distant. I was not, however, a native of the
                     North. I was born in New Orleans, where I first met the charming Ratcliffe;
                     and—shall I tell you everything?—relate a little romance for your amusement?
                     You will scarcely understand, unless I begin at the beginning."
                  "Proceed," said Landon, in a low voice.
                  "With great pleasure," said the deserter, with a singular smile.
                  And in tones of bitter humour she resumed:—
                  "My story will not be long. I was born of French parents, in the city of New
                     Orleans, and at a ball one evening met a young Mr. Ratcliffe, from East
                     Tennessee. He was exceedingly handsome, and paid me marked attention. On the
                     next day he called to see me; and, to be brief, became, or professed to be,
                     romantically enamoured of my dear self. I was flattered,—my suitor was an
                     Adonis, you see, Monsieur Landon,—and I listened to his flattering
                     protestations. I should not have done so, for I had already plighted my word to
                     a gentleman a thousand times more worthy of respect and love than this person
                     Ratcliffe. I was thus guilty of a base wrong to Mr. ——; but I will not soil his
                     name by pronouncing it with my lips. I will only say that I was the affianced
                     of one immeasurably superior to this Tennessee Adonis; and that I deceived ceived and betrayed him, breaking
                     his heart for the love of a vulgar poltroon!
                  
                  "Well, things took their course. Ratcliffe continued his addresses secretly,
                     and proposed that we should be married secretly, as the rage of Mr. —— that is,
                     of my affianced—would be great. That should have opened my eyes; but I was
                     foolishly in love with the Tennesseean, and I consented. We were accordingly
                     married privately. I left my family with only a few lines of adieu; went to
                     Tennessee with Ratcliffe; and thence accompanied him to West Point, in a
                     village near which place I took up my residence. Here he visited me regularly,
                     by leaving West Point without permission; and I went more than once to see him
                     at his own quarters. At his quarters! you may exclaim,—a woman visit a West
                     Point Cadet at his quarters? Yes, my dear Captain Landon, nothing in this
                     wicked world is more deceiving than 'appearances.' Is not life a comedy, or a
                     tragedy, at best? Are not the costumes half the spectacle? The dress, does not
                     that make the man or the woman? Well, I observed that a cadet was
                     a human being in a little swallow-tailed coat, striped pantaloons, and a cap of
                     peculiar fashion; and as my dear Ratcliffe brought me a uniform, I became a
                     'West Point Cadet' in ten minutes. I enjoyed the frolic, for there has always
                     been a spice of diablerie in my character. I
                     dressed myself, and looked with admiration at my figure. In my jaunty little
                     uniform, with my hair hidden beneath the cap, and walking arm in arm with
                     Ratcliffe, it was impossible to mistake me for anything but a military youth;
                     and the proof is, that you saw me a dozen times, and we were once introduced;
                     you never suspected me!
                  "Well, this is growing tedious—to proceed to events. In speaking of what took
                     place in New Orleans, I was somewhat inaccurate. I stated that Ratcliffe and
                     myself were 'married.' I should have said that I believed at the time that we
                     were married lawfully; the real fact, however, was, that this dear Ratcliffe
                     had tricked and betrayed me. I was poor. Ratcliffe discovered that, and he
                     deceived me by a sham marriage. One of his companions personated a priest,—the
                     whole ceremony was a farce,—and I only came to know this months afterwards,
                     when in the North. Ratcliffe taunted me with the fact one day, when he was
                     shamefully intoxicated, and when something between us had led to hot words.
                  "I will not stop to describe my feelings at this announcement. I think it
                     aroused the devil in me; and Ratcliffe afterwards told me that the very
                     expression of my eyes sobered him; they 'looked like red hot coals,' he was
                     pleased to say; and, indeed, I could have killed him at that moment, or put an
                     end to myself. This, then, was the man for whom I had betrayed—my affianced, his superior a million
                     times! For this vulgar wretch I had broken the noblest heart I have ever known!
                     Well, an hour afterwards I had grown calm. Ratcliffe had soothed and again
                     deceived me. I was foolishly in love with his pretty face, and again trusted
                     him. He had deceived me, he acknowledged; but with no intention to do so
                     really. His family would never have consented to the match, he said; but he
                     would soon be his own master; he would wed me before the whole world; and I was
                     lulled to sleep again.
                  "Charming evidences of my dear Ratcliffe's confidence followed this désagrément," continued the deserter, satirically.
                     "He was more confiding than ever before, less reserved as to his past life; and
                     so one day he related a curious incident, which I think will interest
                        you, Captain Landon, since it refers to a certain Miss Adair of
                     this neighbourhood."
                  Landon's face slightly flushed. Otherwise he remained unmoved.
                  "Continue," he said, coolly.
                  "With pleasure," the deserter replied. "Well, the incident related by my dear
                     Ratcliffe was this. He informed me that just before meeting me he had made the
                     acquaintance of a young lady in Virginia; had paid his addresses to her; she
                     had led him on step by step; then when he spoke, she had laughed at him,
                     refusing his suit with hauteur and positive insult. When I asked if it was
                     possible that 'such deception could be practised by any one,' Ratcliffe growled
                     out for reply, that he had been betrayed by a rival. The young lady had fallen
                     crazily in love with a certain St. Leger Landon; Landon was his friend; the
                     very confidence reposed in you had been his, Ratcliffe's, destruction; he would
                     be revenged on you and the young lady!
                  "He told me all this with flashing eyes, and a face red with violent anger. He
                     had long ceased to care for Miss Adair, he added, but he would give his right
                     hand to be revenged upon her and the treacherous friend, who, knowing his
                     passion for her, had basely interposed, and, by his deceitful arts, won the
                     heart of the young lady from him!
                  "When he spoke thus, I laughed; and probably with a bitter sneer in the
                     laughter.
                  "'What are you laughing at?' said Ratcliffe.
                  "'At your ideas of "baseness" and "deceitful arts,"' I said. 'That is the way
                     you won me.'
                  "His face grew black; but, seeing that this expression did not intimidate me in
                     the least, he controlled his anger, assumed a wheedling tone, and resumed his
                     narrative. A few additional words terminated it. What he now had resolved on,
                     he said, was full vengeance. Would I assist him? If I consented, he would marry
                     me at once! Only to secure his vengeance!
                  
                  "I have never seen hate expressed so strongly. He positively
                     magnetized me—this dear Ratcliffe! He was extremely handsome, and his anger
                     became him. Then his proposal was not so disagreeable. To strike
                        my rival did not positively revolt me! To be brief, Ratcliffe
                     saw that he had made the desired impression, and proceeded at once to lay
                     before me the scheme which he had devised.
                  "Shall I go on, sir, or do I weary you? But no reply to that question is
                     necessary. I see from your countenance, Captain Landon, that you are by no
                     means weary. Well, to proceed with my story. Ratcliffe may be
                        base,—I have never seen any one more so,—but after hearing me
                     to the end, you will be compelled to confess that he is ingenious!"
               
               
                  XXXIII. THE RING.
                  WITH the same subtle and mocking smile upon the lips, the deserter
                     continued:—
                  "Ratcliffe's plan was excellent, and had the simplicity of genius. I need not
                     tell you, my dear Captain Landon, that cunning is more dangerous in this world
                     than force; that the most deadly of all weapons, the keenest-edged tools to
                     play with, are the passions of the human heart!
                  "Well, our dear Ratcliffe determined to play upon the love existing between
                     yourself and Miss Adair. His object, he declared, was to ruin your character,
                     break your engagement, destroy your 'insolent happiness,'—I well remember that
                     phrase,—and so 'get even' with you and the young lady at the same moment. In
                     this he required my assistance,—would I give it? If I would aid him he would
                     repay me by wedding me at once. We would return to Tennessee, whence he came,
                     and live in wealth and luxury. Such was his offer, and it won me. Do you laugh
                     at me? Well, I deserve it. But, to be frank again, I was very much in love
                        with this poor wretch at the
                     time. His superb face and figure had impressed my foolish fancy. I listened,
                     assented; three days afterward I had basely acted as he dictated.
                  "You shall judge if I am wrong in saying that I acted basely. Ratcliffe had
                     said to me: 'The first thing was to make Landon's friends and family think him
                     a reprobate and a blackguard. I have seen to that, he is ruined; now, the next
                     thing is to destroy him in the estimation of the girl he loves. Here is a ring
                     and a draft of a letter: copy and sign the letter, enclose the ring in it, and
                     put the whole in this envelope.' With these words he left me, and I read the
                     rough draft of the letter. It was truly devilish!—and I copied and sent it to
                     Miss Adair; sent the ring with it also,—your engagement ring,
                     which Ratcliffe afterward acknowledged he had drawn from your finger while you
                     were asleep!"
                  Landon had listened, pale and cold, but his face now flushed.
                  "I remember missing the ring," he muttered, "but thought that I had lost it
                     while bathing in the Hudson."
                  "No, it was stolen from you; you know, at last, how, and by whom."
                  "And that letter," said Landon, in an altered voice,—a voice full of
                     inexpressible menace,—"what was that letter?"
                  "Would you like to hear me repeat it? But, no, that is not necessary. In the
                     graceful little document, Mademoiselle Antoinette Duvarny presented her
                     compliments to Miss Ellen Adair, and begged to return to that young lady the
                     engagement ring which she had given to Mr. St. Leger Landon, and which Mr. St.
                     Leger Landon had in turn presented to Mademoiselle Duvarny."
                  Landon half rose; his eyes blazed.
                  "You were base enough to do that!" he said, hoarsely, his brow wet with cold
                     perspiration.
                  "Yes," was the cool reply.
                  "And you dare to confess it! confess it to me!—Miserable wretch—"
                  And Landon's hand was extended as though to clutch some weapon.
                  "It was necessary," came as coolly. "I would have concealed this, but could
                     not. For the rest, Captain Landon, I am not compelled to speak. If you do not
                     wish to know all, tell me so, and I will say no more."
                  "Go on," came in the same hoarse tone.
                  "Very good—to continue."
                  And the deserter went on in a voice in which it was impossible to discern the
                     least emotion.
                  "I was speaking of the engagement ring which Mademoiselle Duvarny begged to return to Miss
                     Adair, its original owner. Mr. Landon—the letter said—had for some time been
                        the lover of Miss Duvarny; in the confidence of private
                     intercourse had mentioned his little affair of the past with Miss Adair; had
                     laughed at it; spoken slightingly of Miss A.; declared himself weary of the
                     affair completely; and had given her, Miss Duvarny, the little token which she
                     now returned, since she was unwilling to retain the property of Miss Adair,
                        under the peculiar circumstances.
                  
                  "That was all. But it was quite enough,—was it not? A month afterwards
                     Ratcliffe came to me gleefully, and informed me that he had received
                     intelligence that your engagement with Miss Adair had terminated. I never saw
                     him more joyful.
                  "'That was a master-stroke!' he said, 'and I knew it would succeed, for I defy
                     any woman to act differently under the same circumstances.
                     Acknowledge, my dear,' he went on, 'that the thing was a real thunderbolt! You
                     write on your pretty little note-paper the history of your little affair with
                     our friend Landon; you enclose his engagement ring given you by
                     him,—what woman, after that, but would scorn to see his face again, as long as
                     she lived?'
                  "'True,' I replied, 'it was ingenious, but I feel like the base woman I am, for
                     the part I had in it. Nevertheless, it is done, and now give me my reward.'
                  "'Your reward?' he asked.
                  "'Yes,' I replied; 'marry me and take me to Tennessee.—I am tired of this.'
                  "His reply was a laugh.
                  "'Did I think he was in earnest?'
                  "I could have strangled him, and I think my hatred commenced from that very
                     moment. He continued to reply to all my entreaties with the same laughter; said
                     only that some day, perhaps, he would keep his promise; and then,
                     in the midst of all this, the war broke out. Ratcliffe was assigned to duty
                     with the army in Missouri,—came to tell me good-by, and set out to join his
                     command. I was basely deserted.
                  "Well, two weeks afterwards I rejoined him, wearing the dress of a boy. I
                     continued with him; came hither with him, loving him foolishly, blindly,—a
                     pleasing confession, is it not, gentlemen? I continued to fill my post of
                     orderly to Ratcliffe, with my feelings unchanged, until—he met and again began
                     to love Miss Adair!"
                  The speaker paused. Her voice changed. She had spoken up to this moment in a
                     careless and mocking tone, but, as she uttered those words, "until he met and
                     again began to love Miss Adair," her accent became cold and menacing.
                  
                  "My story is nearly finished," she added, with a threatening flash of the eye,
                     "and a few words will tell you what has happened recently. Then I will come to
                     the main point,—my errand here!"
               
               
                  XXXIV. THE OFFER AND REFUSAL.
                  "RATCLIFFE went to see Miss Adair," continued the deserter, "on the day after
                     his arrival in the neighbourhood.
                  "He commanded a full company of regular cavalry; established his camp in the
                     vicinity of the young lady's residence; and, taking a guard of a dozen men,
                     went to visit her. I think he was afraid of guerillas. He is not a coward, but
                     he is not brave. Well, he went, and I went with him, anxious to see the face of
                     the woman whom he had once loved.
                  
                  "It was a very beautiful face. More still,—it was pure and high-bred. This was
                     a lady truly. Well, Ratcliffe's manner to Miss Adair, who received
                     him with freezing coldness, was the perfection of laughing carelessness; you
                     would have sworn that he cared nothing for her. They were old acquaintances, he
                     said; the war had wafted him hither; he thought he would call and see her, as
                     well as Judge Adair; and, if he could be of use to them in any way, they had
                     only to indicate it.
                  
                  "These polite speeches, however, made not the least impression. I was standing
                     at the door, and saw Judge Adair's eye flash; as to the young lady, she was a
                     veritable iceberg; and Ratcliffe came out and rode off in a towering rage at
                     his reception.
                  "That did not prevent him, however, from going again; and again I accompanied
                     him as his orderly, and witnessed his reception. More,—I heard the conversation
                     between himself and Miss Adair, her father being ill; and this conversation
                     related to yourself, Captain Landon. Ratcliffe spoke of the time before the
                     war, when he was a guest in your house at 'Bizarre,' and something had occurred
                     there, it seemed, slightly differing from the statement which he had made to me
                     at West Point. In other words, it was Ratcliffe who had tried to
                     steal away Miss Adair's affection from you,—to break your
                     engagement, while he was residing in your house as your guest; and this fact
                     Miss Adair now referred to, and charged him with. He laughed, but far from
                     gayly. It sounded like a growl rather,—that harsh and forced laughter. He
                     replied that the charge was true; 'but Landon's character had justified him.'
                     You were a 'sneak and a coward, as was proved by your leaving the country and
                     giving up the woman you loved for a mere fancy.' She turned pale as he spoke;
                     her eyes—they are grand eyes!—flashed haughtily. 'He is not here!' she said,
                     superbly, 'it is easy to see that you know that, sir!' Half an hour afterwards
                     Ratcliffe left her, white with rage, gnawing his lips, muttering curses,
                        and—loving her!
                  
                  "I saw that, and it raised the demon in me. For this man had subjected my whole
                     life to his will. I had despised myself, struggled against my infatuation,
                     sought to break the chain that bound me; but without success. I loved him
                     still, and up to that moment was his slave. But at the moment when I discovered
                     that he loved Miss Adair, I began to feel my free will return to me. Revenge
                     began to replace love. Not revenge upon her,—for she had done
                     nothing; she despised this man,—but on him.
                  
                  "Events hastened. Going everywhere with Ratcliffe, I was at the ford yonder
                     when you attacked and drove him back upon Millwood. I bore him off that night
                     when you had bruised him by a blow of your pistol, from which he soon
                     recovered, however. I was at the Chapel with him, where he was not engaged, and
                     afterwards went with him to Miss Adair's, where you, sir,"—and the speaker
                     turned to me,—"captured the valiant Ratcliffe and carried him off. Well, on
                     that night I yielded to a weak impulse and brought up the cavalry which
                     recaptured him. I was repaid by another scene that night at Judge Adair's, in
                     which he stormed at, insulted, and declared his love for Miss Adair. Then you
                        captured him in turn, Captain
                     Landon; he escaped, and another visit, still, to Miss Adair, followed.
                  "Let me finish. For the last three days his infatuation has become a species of
                     madness. He has repulsed, insulted, spurned, put his heel upon me! I am no
                     longer anything but the wretched slave of his caprice! He has made nothing of
                     telling me that I am disgusting in his eyes. He has dared to use a term in
                     addressing me that I will not repeat! Yes, this man, to whom I have sacrificed
                     everything,—for whom I have lost name and fame, and all that a woman
                     values,—this base, cowardly wretch, who has lied and tricked and betrayed
                     others for so long, has now insulted, outraged, and betrayed me!
                  
                  "He has betrayed me!" continued the speaker, with flaming eyes; "but woe to
                     him! He has not counted on the Basque blood of the Duvarnys! I have but one
                     aim,—to crush him! And now, perhaps, you understand why I have come hither,
                     Captain Landon. I come to say, You have only to follow me to surprise and
                     destroy the bitterest enemy you have in the world! I will lead you straight to
                     him; will deliver him into your hands, asking one thing only,—that you will
                     allow me to be present when you bury your sword in his cowardly heart!"
                  She paused, shuddering with rage. It was an absorbing spectacle,—that beautiful
                     face convulsed; that bosom shaken by wrath; those lips half open, and showing
                     the white teeth close-set beneath.
                  "Will you follow me?" she said, hoarsely and abruptly to Landon; "I will go
                     unarmed between two men; you can shoot me if I betray you; will you follow
                     me?"
                  "No!" said Landon, rising.
                  "You refuse!"
                  "I will do better," said the Partisan, coldly. "I will kill him in fair fight
                     before your eyes, or he shall kill me!"
               
               
                  
                  XXXV. IN THE "FOX-SPRING WOODS."
                  I HAVE said that in returning from Fauquier to the Valley, I had hastened my
                     steps, in order to be present at the denouement of the affair between Landon and Ratcliffe,—a denouement which something told me would not long
                     be delayed.
                  That "something" was the intense bitterness of the adversaries; the knowledge
                     upon Landon's part that his enemy had destroyed his character, and the fact
                     that Ratcliffe, doubtless knew that he knew it. That was enough to
                     make two men thirst for each other's blood; but now a far more bitter sentiment
                     of hatred inflamed Landon; and I foresaw an early termination of the drama.
                  Ratcliffe had not only blackened his good name; he had produced that rupture
                     with Miss Adair which had nearly broken Landon's heart. It was easy to
                     understand that from this moment the young Partisan would never rest; that he
                     would follow Ratcliffe as a bloodhound follows the trail. When they met, one
                     would die.
                  It was this fierce wrestle which I now looked forward ward to with absorbing
                     interest. On the day after the interview which I have just described, Landon
                     was in the saddle at the head of about thirty men, and we were proceeding in
                     the direction of Berryville.
                  The deserter had remained behind, by his order, at "Bizarre;" but this order,
                     as the reader will perceive, availed little.
                  I shall now attempt to narrate, in their regular order, the strangely tragic
                     events which occurred in the neighbourhood of the Old Chapel. I look back to
                     these events with a sort of wonder, asking myself if they really took place
                     before my eyes, or were only a dream. Here at Eagle's Nest, in 1868, all that
                     past looks so strange! That autumn of 1864, when I marched and fought with
                     Landon, seems an unreal epoch; Millwood, the Lover's Leap, Bizarre, the Old
                     Chapel, mere imaginary places, which I have visited in slumber, dozing here in
                     my elbow-chair!
                  But you nestle yonder still,—do you not,—little village of Millwood, on the
                     banks of the limpid stream, stealing on to the Shenandoah? Lover's Leap! you
                     still hang above the flowing river. Weeping willows of the Old Chapel! you are
                     sighing still, I think, above the graves of the dear dead ones; the brave
                     children of the Valley whom I loved and will ever love!—sighing now in 1868,
                        when the hours are dull and long,
                     as in 1864, when they rushed onward, crammed with adventure; when every minute
                     sounded the death-knell of some heart that poured out its blood for
                     Virginia!
                  O wondrous days and nights of 1864, on the banks of the Shenandoah! Golden
                     days, moonlight nights of that dreamy autumn! I have seen much in my time, and
                     have many things to remember; but I will forget all before I forget
                        you!
                  
                  Landon passed through Millwood at the head of his men, left the little church
                     embowered in trees behind him, and, advancing steadily, reached a point on the
                     Berryville road about two miles from Millwood.
                  Here he obliqued to the right, followed a narrow road for a few hundred yards,
                     and then, penetrating the forest, halted his men in a hollow of what are called
                     the "Fox-Spring Woods."
                  He then informed me that he was going to ride ahead, in order to reconnoitre in
                     person, and invited me to accompany him. To this I gladly assented; and Arden,
                     having been left in command of the Night-Hawks, Landon turned his horse's head
                     toward the Chapel.
                  As we went on through the woods, advancing slowly amid the thick undergrowth, I
                     observed upon the Partisan's countenance evidences of unwonted emotion.
                  "Something moves you, Landon," I said, gazing at him; "what is it?"
                  "It would puzzle me to tell you," was his reply.
                  And, riding on for a few moments in silence, he suddenly added:—
                  "Do you believe in presentiments?"
                  "Yes, and no."
                  "Well, I believed in them this morning!"
                  "You feel some presentiment? Of what? Of evil?"
                  "I cannot reply to that. I can only say that something tells me this day will
                     prove an epoch in my life,—a sad life for the rest, and scarce worth an
                     epoch!"
                  "Come, cheer up!"
                  "I am not cast down. On the contrary a strange force seems to have come to
                     me,—my blood rushes through my veins, as if to meet and breast some struggle
                     that is near! Something drives me on; do you remember the Greek Necessity with
                     her iron wedge? In her hands the gods themselves were powerless!"
                  I looked curiously at Landon, and he caught my glance. A grim smile came to his
                     lips.
                  "You are surprised at my fanciful talk," he said, "but I assure you it
                     expresses my feelings to-day. I know that I am going to engage in
                     some desperate struggle. I go to it blindly, with my feet dragged— without free will. As to its
                     character or result, I know nothing, and cannot say whether it will be
                     fortunate or unfortunate,—happy or terrible."
                  His head sank, and he went on in silence. Then the head rose; the face of the
                     Partisan had assumed an expression which I had never seen upon it before. That
                     expression was sweet and yet resolute; a strange mingling of gentleness and
                     courage.
                  "I know not how it is, Surry," he said, thoughtfully; "but all my life seemed
                     to pass before me as I rode on, this morning. It is a strange life,—is it not?
                     and enough to account for that bitterness and cynicism which you must have
                     noted in me. Sometimes I am puzzled,—I wander and stumble in my thought,—I
                     believe in God, in his merciful Providence, in his goodness, his justice; but
                     at times the devil comes, and whispers in my ear: 'You are the victim of a
                     blind fatality; there is no Providence; all is the sport of chance!'
                  "Do you wonder at that? Think of my life! I was a happy and warm-hearted boy;
                     now I am a cold and dreary man. I loved my mother as dearly as man could, and
                     she was murdered by those cowardly gossips. I loved a woman,—and she threw me
                     away without hearing me say a word in my defence. Then this terrible war came
                     to finish me, and make me old. Think of this country, in which my youth passed
                     so happily, laid waste with fire and sword,—the smiling homes reduced to ashes,
                     the brave boys in bloody graves in the Old Chapel yonder, the very grave of my
                     mother exposed at any moment to desecration!
                  "Is it strange, then, that I am hard and an old man before my time?—that I
                     doubt the goodness of God sometimes—miserable creature that I am!—and feel
                     tempted to cry out 'Vengeance! be thou my god!' It is bitter food we eat, a
                     bitter fountain we drink from, in this year of our Lord 1864! And what is left
                     us, but to fight on? For my part I shall never lower my flag until the end; and
                     a bullet, perhaps to-day, may save me that trouble."
                  I looked steadily at him.
                  "You think it will?" I said.
                  "Who knows? Did I not tell you just now that I felt a singular
                     presentiment?"
                  "Pshaw! You did not sleep last night, Landon, you are nervous!"
                  He smiled grimly.
                  "On the contrary I slept soundly,—only I dreamed."
                  "What did you dream?"
                  "That a house was burning somewhere; that Ratcliffe met me hilt to hilt in
                     single combat; that a rope was thrown around my feet by unseen hands; I was
                     dragged to the ground, and Ratcliffe leaned his sword's point on my throat,
                     when I awoke!"
                  
                  "Good! Remember that dreams always go 'by contraries,' Landon. None of this is
                     going to happen!"
                  "You are wrong," said Landon, coolly; "and there is the beginning!"
                  As he spoke, he pointed through an opening in the woods. To the left of the Old
                     Chapel I saw a dense smoke rising. A second glance convinced me that it was
                     Chapeldale on fire.
               
               
                  XXXVI. WAR IN THE VALLEY OF THE SHENANDOAH IN 1864.
                  IN an instant all Landon's preoccupation had disappeared. Dreams,
                     presentiments, memories,—all had vanished, leaving the Partisan's eye fiery,
                     his lip firm-set, his muscle strong for the coming conflict.
                  Plunging the spurs into his horse, he darted forward, leaped a ravine, and
                     gained a knoll from which the eye embraced the whole landscape.
                  "Chapeldale!" he said.
                  Suddenly the noise of hoofs resounded on the turnpike in our front. A moment
                     afterwards, a white robe gleamed, a lady on horseback appeared; she approached
                     at full gallop, and I recognized Miss Adair.
                  We spurred to meet her, and she drew rein. I have never seen acuter distress
                     than that written upon her face.
                  "Captain Landon!" she exclaimed; and a sudden rush of crimson to her cheeks
                     betrayed her deep emotion at the encounter.
                  Landon bowed low; I could see his heart throbbing.
                  
                  "I was coming to look for help from some one. They have carried off my
                     father."
                  And, unnerved, overwhelmed, the young lady burst into tears. In an instant,
                     however, she had dashed away the tears, and her hurried words put us in
                     possession of the main points of a scene, of which I afterward heard all the
                     details.
                  Ratcliffe had come on that morning to Chapeldale with a detachment of cavalry,
                     and, finding Judge Adair ill in bed, had demanded an interview with the young
                     lady, who reluctantly made her appearance. Ratcliffe was pale and gloomy, and,
                     having closed the door, informed Miss Adair that he had come to visit her for
                     the last time. He had sworn, he declared, to attain the object which he had so
                     long sought, and Miss, Adair was perfectly aware of the subject to which he
                     alluded.
                  When she demanded an explanation, declaring herself at a loss to comprehend
                     him, Ratcliffe brutally announced that his object was to force her into a union
                     with him. The war was nearly over, he said; the people of the Valley utterly
                     impoverished; he was rich from speculation, and he came to offer
                     the young lady his hand and his fortune. If she consented, they would live
                     wherever she wished; he would resign his commission, go to Paris, obey her
                     slightest caprice. If she refused,—then he had made up his mind. He would drag
                     her sick father from his bed, set fire to the house, and carry the old man off
                     to take his chance of living or dying from exposure. Miss Adair might have her
                     choice,—wealth and luxury as his wife; if she refused him, the destruction of
                     all she held most dear. Crouching in presence of the burning roofs of
                     Chapeldale, with her sick father carried off by his troopers before her eyes,
                     she would then understand the love of a man like himself. He had sworn in his
                     heart that he would do this, and would keep his oath.
                  Such had been Ratcliffe's announcement. Miss Adair had replied by a bitter and
                     scornful refusal. Rather than wed him, she would die a thousand deaths,—submit
                     to all,—and as to her father, God would watch over him.
                  Ratcliffe's fury at this reply passed all bounds. Raging like a wild beast, he
                     had ordered Judge Adair to be dragged out of his bed and placed on horseback,
                     the house to be fired,—and these orders had been promptly obeyed. Miss Adair
                     had, meanwhile, hastened out of the house to the stable, saddled their sole
                     remaining horse with her own hands, and, profiting by the confusion, made her
                     escape across the fields in the direction of Millwood, where she hoped to find
                     some of the Partisans, and lead them back to the relief of her father.
                  As she ascended the hill near the "Fox-Spring Woods," our gray uniforms in the
                     foliage had attracted her attention;
                     she had hastened to give the alarm; "if no time was lost we might be able to
                     rescue her father."
                  Landon's sole reply was:—
                  "I hope to arrive in time."
                  And, raising his whistle to his lips, he sounded the cavalry signal, "Rally on
                     the Chief."
                  Before five minutes had elapsed, a sudden tramping was heard in the forest; the
                     Rangers appeared coming on at full speed; and, placing himself in front of
                     them, with drawn sabre, Landon darted at a headlong gallop in the direction of
                     the burning house.
               
               
                  XXXVII. NO QUARTER.
                  THAT rush across the fields, leaping rocks, ravines, fences, was a superb
                     spectacle, and the memory of it still stirs my blood.
                  We swept by to the left of the Old Chapel, crossed a meadow, mounted the
                     Chapeldale hill, and were in front of the burning mansion, from whose windows
                     spouted smoke and flame.
                  Above, a great black cloud, like the smoke rising from a gigantic torch,
                     hovered, assumed fantastic outlines, and slowly drifted away, darkening the
                     calm September landscape, and disappearing upon the horizon.
                  Landon had rushed up the hill in front of his men. His eyes blazed. I saw that
                     the tiger was aroused in him.
                  "Look!" he said, with a whirl of his sabre, as he turned in his saddle and
                     pointed to the house. "Women, children, and the sick are their victims,—and
                     they are yonder!"
                  With a quick gesture he indicated a detachment of blue horsemen ascending a
                     hill toward Berryville.
                  
                  "No quarter!" he shouted. "Follow me!—and no quarter to-day!"
                  As he spoke, Landon darted on the track of the Federal cavalry. The rangers
                     followed him headlong. From their ranks rose a wild and furious cry,—"No
                     quarter!"
                  What followed seems to-day, as I go back in memory, like some terrible
                     phantasmagoria,—some nightmare of blood and death rather than an actual
                     occurrence.
                  On that morning of September, I saw Partisan warfare, in its darkest and most
                     frightful phase.
                  Landon's fierce rush carried him over the distance which separated him from the
                     Federal cavalry in an incredibly brief space of time. Nothing made him pause
                     for an instant. Riding, drawn sabre in hand, twenty yards ahead of his men, the
                     Partisan cleared every obstacle, drove on with bloody spurs, and then I saw
                     him,—for I had not been able to keep up with his headlong rush,—I saw him
                     disappear in the midst of the enemy, cutting right and left with the sabre.
                  The Rangers followed: every man selected his adversary,—for the Federal
                     detachment numbered scarcely more than thirty men,—and in a few minutes the
                     blue horsemen were scattered in wild flight.
                  But the flight did not avail them. On their track followed Landon and his
                        sabreurs, cutting them out of the saddle,
                     or pistolling them, man by man.
                  A dozen times I heard the cry "I surrender!" and saw hands thrown up, arms
                     dropped. Each time came the terrible response:—
                  "No quarter!"
                  And the men who had surrendered, like those who still fought, were shot,
                     sabred, or hurled from the saddle, and trampled under foot. If they rose, a
                     pistol bullet was sent through them, or they were ridden down, and mercilessly
                     put to death at the point of the sword.*
                  
                  
                     *Fact.
                  
                  Of the whole command, a few only escaped; among whom, as I afterwards
                     discovered, was Ratcliffe. The speed of his horse had alone saved him.
                  A mile from the Chapel toward Berryville, the affair had come to an end. The
                     road was strewed with dead men and horses. Not a wounded man was seen. They had
                     all been pistolled.
                  Landon wiped his bloody sabre on his horse's mane.
                  "So much for the house-burners!" he said, coolly; "I think I have done for
                     them!"
               
               
                  
                  XXXVIII. "PARTISAN RANCOUR."
                  JUDGE ADAIR had been recaptured, and we found him awaiting us on the hill above
                     the Chapel, his daughter on horseback beside him.
                  The old cavalier's weakness seemed suddenly to have left him. He sat his horse
                     as erect as the Cid Campeador himself, his gray hairs streaming upon his
                     shoulders, his eyes flashing with joy.
                  "Thanks! thanks!" he exclaimed, as the Rangers came up. And he grasped the hand
                     of Landon, of Arden, mine, and those of the men.
                  "Don't mind my house," he said, looking toward Chapeldale, which was now a
                     great mass of roaring and crackling flames; "it is nothing. I do not regret it,
                     as you have given such a good account of the rascals who insulted me. I have
                     plenty of friends near Millwood; they will give me a resting-place for my gray
                     hairs, and take care of Ellen!"
                  And the light of a superb courage flashed grandly from the old cavalier's fiery
                     eyes as he uttered the words.
                  Landon hastened, however, with his men to the mansion, and the Rangers exerted
                     themselves to rescue as many valuables as possible from the flames. These were
                     few, however. The house was a sea of flame. Two hours afterwards the walls
                     alone were standing; and the hospitable mansion of Chapeldale was a mass of
                     blackened ruin,—a thing of the past.
                  Landon was sitting his horse, looking gloomily at the ruin.
                  "Look," he said, "this is the way they make war on us in the Valley. We are
                     wild beasts to be hunted down, and smoked out of our dens. The torch is to
                     accomplish what the sword cannot; they cannot whip our soldiers; they burn out
                     and starve our women and children, and if we murmur we are told that we
                     are—rebels! Let a writer hereafter describe this scene, Surry, and he will not
                     be believed. 'Partisan rancour! Sectional hatred!' the North will cry; and not
                     one in a thousand will credit him. But you see. Here is the terrible fact
                     staring you straight in the face. This country is to be desolated, in order
                     that our troops cannot operate in it. 'A crow flying over the region shall be
                     compelled to carry his rations!' they declare. Well, they desolate the poor
                     Valley by burning out women and children, and, for fear that the crow may find
                     food, they destroy that too. Let them starve, those women and children! Are
                     they not rebels? See that dangerous one!"
                  
                  And Landon pointed to Miss Adair. who was leaning on the shoulder of her old
                     negro mammy, and trying to stifle her sobs. Beside her stood Judge Adair, still
                     erect and defiant.
                  "They are right!" said Landon; "there is only one way to conquer such a race as
                     that,—it is to starve or exterminate them!"
                  They were starved, reader. Ask the Army of Northern Virginia.
               
               
                  XXXIX. THE LAST KNOT IN THE STRING.
                  LANDON had scarcely uttered the words which I have just recorded, when a
                     horseman in gray suddenly made his appearance, coming at full gallop across an
                     extensive field west of the house.
                  "Look!" said Landon; "that is Touch-and-go. I sent him out to reconnoitre, and
                     he has something to report."
                  "An attack, do you think?"
                  "It is probable. We are not far from the main camp of the enemy's cavalry."
                  "True; and Ratcliffe escaped; he has probably given the alarm."
                  "He has certainly done so."
                  "Then look out!"
                  Landon's cool smile responded.
                  "I expect an attack," he said; "did I not tell you this morning that to-day
                     would be an era in my life,—would bring some singular event? Well, I think the
                     event is coming."
                  And Landon rode to meet the young scout.
                  
                  "You will be attacked in ten minutes, captain!" said Touch-and-go, quickly.
                  "From what quarter?"
                  Touch-and-go pointed in the direction from which he had come.
                  "Their number?"
                  "About a hundred!"
                  "Good! that is not too many."
                  "Look out!" said the scout, pointing to the woods; "there they are!"
                  As he spoke a dark mass of blue cavalry appeared suddenly in the edge of the
                     wood, formed line of battle, and came on with loud cheers.
                  Landon was ready. I saw in his flashing eye the gaudium
                        certaminis,—that fierce joy which drives the stern soul of the
                     born soldier to combat, bracing his muscle for the hard struggle.
                  Drawing up his men in the open field near the smoking ruin, Landon placed
                     himself in front, gave the order "Charge!" and went at headlong speed to meet
                     the enemy.
                  The two lines came together with a thundering clash. In an instant the blue and
                     gray cavaliers were slashing at each other furiously; and Landon met the
                     assault upon his little band with a dash and obstinacy which I had never seen
                     in him before.
                  All at once, in the very middle of the mad and whirling crowd of horsemen,—amid
                     the hissing bullets lets, the clashing sabres, and the trampling hoofs,—I saw
                     the white robe of Miss Adair, and her proud, fearless face.
                  "Look! they are coming yonder!" she exclaimed, with extended arm.
                  I turned and saw a dense column of Federal cavalry approaching at full gallop
                     over the White Post road. They were at least a hundred in number; had been
                     evidently sent round to surprise us; and, what was worst of all, Landon,
                     fighting the other column, did not see them, as they came thundering on to cut
                     him off.
                  "For Heaven's sake, go back!" I exclaimed to Miss Adair.
                  And with three bounds of my horse I was beside Landon.
                  "Look out!" I shouted, and I pointed to the approaching column.
                  Landon looked, and his teeth were clenched. In his eye I saw the stern glare of
                     the tiger at bay.
                  "Well," he said, in his brief tone, "there is Ratcliffe in front of them. I
                     don't intend to retreat. We can die here."
                  And the Partisan turned his head and looked toward Miss Adair, who was gazing
                     at him.
                  "Good!" he said; "it is something for her to see me die!"
                  And, throwing himself into the melée of clashing sabres, with the fury of a wild beast, Landon
                     shouted to the Rangers to form line and meet the assault on their flank.
                  It was too late.
                  The Federal reinforcement came on with triumphant shouts, their hoofs shaking
                     the ground, and among them I recognized Ratcliffe.
                  In an instant we were surrounded; two hundred men, nearly, were opposed to
                     twenty-five or thirty; there was evidently little hope of extrication from that
                     fatal cordon.
                  Landon was fighting like a tiger, in the midst of twenty enemies, and beside
                     him were Arden and Touch-and-go.
                  Suddenly Arden's horse was shot, and fell with him under the trampling
                     hoofs.
                  At the same moment I saw Touch-and-go totter in the saddle and close his
                     eyes.
                  I reached out my arm to hold the brave boy in his seat, but a single glance
                     told me that he was shot through the heart.
                  He fell, half rose, and then, with a convulsive movement, drew from his pocket
                     the knotted string. His fingers twitched at it; succeeded in tying a last knot
                     in the string; then Touch-and-go fell back, with a childlike smile on his lips,
                     closed his eyes, and expired.
                  That was the last I saw of the combat.
                  Suddenly a blow from behind hurled me out of the saddle. I had a confused idea
                     of iron hoofs within a few inches of my face; above me resounded shouts,
                     cheers, cries of triumph, mingled with shots and sabre-strokes; then a horse's
                     hoof struck me; I felt the blood gush over my eyes, and lost consciousness.
               
               
                  
                  XL. ACROSS A GRAVE.
                  WHEN I opened my eyes I was lying, bruised and bleeding, beneath a tall oak,
                     near and directly eastward from the Old Chapel.
                  The sun was near its setting. The great orb glared, like a huge bloodshot eye,
                     from beneath a low-hung and murky cloud; and this glare—crimson and
                     threatening—lit up a strange and tragic spectacle.
                  Within ten paces of me, under a lofty tree, a grave had just been dug. Beside
                     the grave, with his arms tightly bound behind him by means of his red sash,
                     stood Landon—and opposite him, Ratcliffe. Twenty yards from them I saw Judge
                     Adair, closely guarded, and holding clasped in his arms the form of his
                     daughter, who had fainted. Over the slope, dotted with moss-clad rocks, were
                     scattered the Federal cavalrymen, who had dismounted and tethered their horses
                     to the boughs.
                  The situation of affairs could not be mistaken. The Night-Hawks had all been
                     killed or dispersed; Landon and myself taken prisoner. He was bound like a
                     malefactor; and it was probable that, in retaliation for the bloody scene of
                     the morning, we would be put to death without mercy. Landon's fate seemed
                     certain. That grave newly dug seemed to indicate that Ratcliffe had fully
                     determined then and there to put an end to his mortal enemy.
                  I afterwards discovered that Landon had fought to the last, killing nearly a
                     dozen of his assailants; but, his horse being shot, he had fallen and been
                     captured, when his men dispersed and escaped. The Partisan was then bound and
                     brought to the Old Chapel, whither Judge Adair, his daughter, and myself were
                     also conducted.
                  My first glance, upon opening my eyes, was at Landon. It is impossible to
                     describe the cool courage expressed in the face of the Partisan. In his
                     resolute eye and lip there was no emotion whatever. The stern nerve of the man
                     seemed to defy the attempt to crush him, and he looked that death which was
                     approaching, in the face without the quiver of a muscle. I have seen brave men
                     in my time. I think this one was the bravest of all.
                  From Landon my glance passed to Ratcliffe. His face, habitually ruddy, had the
                     sickly hue of a corpse; but in the snake-like eyes there was an expression of
                     malignant triumph which was revolting.
                  As I awoke to the consciousness of the scene passing ing before me, Ratcliffe had just advanced to
                     the grave opposite Landon, and addressed him:—
                  "Are you ready?" he said, in a hoarse voice.
                  "Iam," returned Landon, coolly.
                  "You know your fate?"
                  "To be shot, doubtless."
                  "And you are not afraid?"
                  "I am not."
                  The reply seemed to arouse Ratcliffe's rage to the utmost.
                  "Ah! you brave me!" he said.
                  "I reply to you," returned Landon.
                  "Ah! well, we will see who has the last word here! Your little game is
                     played,—is it? Your claws are pulled! You are in my power now, and I have not
                     yet decided whether I will shoot you or hang you!"
                  Landon turned livid.
                  "Hang me!"
                  "Yes."
                  "You dare not!"
                  Ratcliffe laughed savagely.
                  "What is to prevent me? I am in command here. I have orders from head-quarters
                     to hang every guerilla I capture. Do you think any questions will be asked when
                     I return and report that I caught and hung you?"
                  Landon's countenance had recovered its iron calmness ness. In face of this
                     threat, so terrible to a soldier, he seemed as unmoved as before it had been
                     uttered.
                  "True," he said, with his eyes fixed coolly upon Ratcliffe. "I had forgotten
                     that your generals had become house-burners and hangmen. It is true that I
                     might have understood it; they have always been jail-birds."
                  "Take care, sir!"
                  "And their subordinates are no better."
                  Ratcliffe laid his hand on his pistol, his eyes glaring.
                  "You suit each other," continued Landon, in a sarcastic voice; "master and
                     man!—workman and tool! You cannot beat us; you burn houses and starve women.
                     That is called patriotism with you; in other countries it is called
                     cowardice!"
                  Ratcliffe bounded with fury.
                  "Beware!" he exclaimed, hoarsely, and turning white with passion.
                  "Beware of what?" said Landon, without moving a muscle; "why not speak my mind,
                     since that is the only satisfaction that remains to me? You were always a cur,
                     Ratcliffe, from the first moment that I knew you. Do you remember at Lexington
                     when I insulted you, and you did not resent it? How at West Point, when your
                     vulgarity had disgusted me, I told you if you spoke to me again I would cane you? You sneaked away in
                     silence,—courage was not your weakness,—and you are no better now, when you
                     come with your ruffians to burn the houses of Virginia over the heads of women
                     and children and sick people; when you break your parole, sneak off to avoid
                     meeting me in honourable combat, and wreak your vengeance on a young lady who
                     despises you as I despise you! Pshaw! my dear Captain Ratcliffe, you are not
                     worth contempt. Do you think I am cowed; that I am afraid of you? Undeceive
                     yourself. It is you who are afraid of me, Ratcliffe; and the proof is that you
                     bind me;"—a menacing flash of the eye accompanied the words—"that you refuse
                     the proposition I have made you to place a sword in my hands, face me, and
                     fight me. No; that is not your game. A gentleman would do that;
                        you belong to the canaille,
                     and you tie your adversary's arms, instead of leaving them free.
                  "Well, so be it!—act your character. Come, make haste to detail your squad;
                     give your orders. You cannot frighten me! There is one thing you cannot
                     do,—frighten the man who stands before you, bound in your power. And you feel
                     at this moment—I see it in your eyes, Ratcliffe—that, in life or death, St.
                     Leger Landon is your master!"
                  Landon's countenance and attitude as he spoke were full of a superb defiance.
                     In his flaming eye burned a stubborn and haughty courage, which nothing seemed
                     able to affect.
                  Only once had the dazzling glance passed from the face of Ratcliffe to the
                     fainting form of Miss Adair, and that glance recalling, as it did, the presence
                     of the young lady, seemed to drive Ratcliffe to a wild fury. Words failed him.
                     Convulsed with passion, he drew his pistol, cocked it, and growled,
                     hoarsely:—
                  "Have you finished?"
                  "Yes," said Landon, coldly.
                  Ratcliffe raised his pistol.
                  "Good!" said Landon; "that is the nearest approach to the honourable duel I
                     offered you. You use the pistol—at ten paces—only your adversary is bound, and
                     cannot return your cowardly fire!"
                  Ratcliffe let the weapon fall.
                  "Fool that I am," he exclaimed, "not to understand the drift of your
                     bravado,—to avoid the rope!" And, turning suddenly to one of his men:—
                  "Bring a rope halter!" he shouted.
                  Suddenly a young officer bounded into the area and advanced straight to
                     Ratcliffe. It was young Lieutenant Arden,—Harry's brother,—covered with sweat
                     and blood, his lips half opened and showing the clenched teeth, his eyes
                     burning in his white face.
                  
                  "Stop!" he said, in a voice which I scarcely recognized. "I protest in the name
                     of every officer of the Federal army against this wanton and cowardly
                     murder!"
               
               
                  XLI. ARDEN'S BADGES.
                  RATCLIFFE turned like a tiger, and measured the speaker from head to foot with
                     a glance of inexpressible wrath and surprise.
                  "You dare!" he exclaimed; "you presume to address your superiour officer in
                     that tone of insubordination?"
                  "I dare to defend the honour of the gentlemen of the army," replied Lieutenant
                     Arden, in a voice quivering with rage. "I dare to speak as I feel, and as every
                     officer here present feels, and tell you that this is murder,—cold-blooded
                     murder!"
                  The words raised a tumult in the crowd. For the first time the young officers
                     attached to the command seemed to realize what was taking place before them.
                     Ratcliffe heard that confused murmur—glared around him—was about to speak—when
                     Lieutenant Arden interrupted him.
                  "I say it is murder!" he exclaimed, "to hang a gentleman,—your prisoner,—as
                     burning that house over a sick man and a young lady was barbarous, and opposed
                     to all the laws of civilized warfare
                     fare! I protested against that act. I warned you, Captain Ratcliffe, that you
                     were dishonouring the flag. I proceeded to the point of insubordination in
                     refusing to command the party, and now I do not shrink from more,—from mutiny,
                     if you like the word,—only be sure of one thing, that I will not be shot down
                     or hanged like a dog! If I die, I will not die alone!"
                  And Arden laid a furious hand on his pistol.
                  Ratcliffe shrunk back, recoiling from the hot eyes and the threatening
                     gesture.
                  "Come, arrest me! try me! glut your thirst for murder!" exclaimed Arden. "I
                     know you, and I know the danger I am running if my brother officers keep silent
                     and permit you to outrage me! I expect to be arrested, to be tried for
                     insubordination; but before I give up my sword you shall hear me!"
                  And, advancing two steps, Arden went on with concentrated passion:—
                  "I entered the army of the United States to make war on men. My aim was to help
                     to crush the rebellion. I meant to assist in doing so by honourable warfare,
                     not by a base and cowardly war on women and children. In the army the gentlemen
                     thought as I thought; they accepted commissions, shed their blood, fought
                     bravely, and died bravely, to restore the old Union of Washington. They did not
                     mean to burn houses over women, and hang prisoners. They did not mean to make
                     the flag which they fought under a by-word. They did not mean to have
                     'house-burner,' and 'hangman,' and 'murderer,' stuck on to their names; and
                        my name, I swear, shall not be dishonoured!"
                  As he uttered these furious words, the young man unbuckled his belt and threw
                     his sabre at the feet of Ratcliffe. It fell with a ringing clash; and Arden
                     exclaimed:—
                  "Take my sword! I will never more draw it in a cause that is disgraced by such
                     men as yourself, and by such acts as I have witnessed to-day! Take my
                     commission!"
                  And, drawing a paper from his breast, he threw it contemptuously from him.
                  "Take my badges of rank!"
                  And, violently tearing from his shoulders his lieutenant's straps, he hurled
                     them to the ground, and placed his heel upon them.
                  "That commission," he exclaimed, "is a dishonour! These badges would burn my
                     shoulders if I wore them longer. I throw them down, and trample on them, and
                     scorn them, as I scorn that flag yonder, that for three years I have fought
                     under. It is no longer my flag. I renounce it, and will never more fight for
                     it. Now, arrest, try, murder me, if you will. At least you cannot dishonour
                     me."
               
               
                  
                  XLII. "COWARD! COWARD! COWARD!"
                  SUDDENLY the deep voice of Landon was heard amid the silence.
                  "Dishonour you,—that person?" he said, looking at Ratcliffe. "You are jesting,
                     my dear lieutenant. He can dishonour nobody."
                  And, turning to the group of young officers who were near:—
                  "Gentlemen of the Federal army," said the Partisan, with his cool, defiant
                     smile, "I really have some curiosity to ascertain one thing,—whether you
                     suspect the real character of this Ratcliffe? Shall I enlighten your ignorance,
                     tell you all about him, messieurs, in a very few words? Well, your commander is
                     a sneak, a poltroon; he betrayed his friend first; then he broke his
                        parole when I, that friend whom he had tricked, captured and released
                     him that he might fight me!"
                  "Impossible!" exclaimed the young officers.
                  "It is the truth! Look at his face! Let him dare to deny it!"
                  And Landon fixed his steady gaze upon Ratcliffe.
                  The response of that personage was to raise his pistol.
                  "See!" said Landon, coolly; "that is his reply to me; the reply of a poltroon,
                     is it not? I am a West Pointer like himself, like yourselves,—and I have some
                     of the esprit du corps still left; well, I am
                     ashamed of that creature, for he dishonours not only the uniform he now wears,
                     but that which I once wore when we were cadets."
                  The young Federal officers uttered a murmur. One of them stepped forth from the
                     rest.
                  "Captain Ratcliffe," he said, "I have no right to question you, but you must be
                     aware that these charges affect the honour of the officers of the Federal army
                     in your person."
                  Ratcliffe scowled at the speaker with an expression of bitter menace; but it
                     was easy to see that all the rest agreed with the young officer.
                  "It is a lie!" cried Ratcliffe, hoarsely.
                  "What is a lie?" said Landon, coolly; "that you made my acquaintance and fawned
                     on me at Lexington?—that I introduced you into society in the Valley?—that you
                     were a guest in my house, my associate and friend, and yet paid your addresses
                     to the young lady who was affianced to me? Is that a lie, sir? Deny it, and the
                     young lady is yonder, your prisoner, ready to speak. But I have not finished, I
                     swear to you! Is it a lie, that when you came to hate and fear me at West Point, you
                     wrote anonymous letters blackening my character; stole my engagement ring from
                     my finger whilst I was asleep in your quarters, and, sending it to the lady,
                     destroyed my happiness by that cowardly treachery? Ah, your face is pale! You
                     shrink! You are surprised that I know that! It is not a lie, then, any more
                     than the statement that I captured you the other day; paroled you to fight me;
                     and that you broke that parole, and escaped like a coward. Answer! Did you, or
                     did you not, break your parole and thus dishonour your uniform? Dare to say
                     that you did not, and I will appeal to the brave officer who was to have acted
                     as your second, Lieutenant Arden."
                  And Landon pointed to Arden, who was standing pale, disdainful, and with folded
                     arms, in the centre of the group.
                  "It is true," he said; "Captain Ratcliffe broke his parole."
                  The Federal officers had gathered around the two foes, facing each other. At
                     those words from Arden, they drew back from Ratcliffe, who was thus left
                     standing alone, avoided by all.
                  Landon's lip curled elaborately and with an unspeakable expression of scorn.
                     Slowly moving his head in the direction of Ratcliffe:—
                  "Look!" he said; "he is afraid of me, bound as I am. That is becoming—is it
                     not, gentlemen?—in one wearing your blue uniform, and holding a commission
                     under your Stars and Stripes."
                  A hoarse murmur from the group of officers greeted these disdainful words.
                  "I find that strange, gentlemen," said Landon, with his defiant smile, "and
                     realize with difficulty that you tolerate such people. For, do not think,
                     messieurs, that in the Southern army we rate you as 'mud-sills' and low people.
                     I have always scorned to make out our enemies mere ruffians and
                     cowards;—cowards! where were the merit of whipping you were you such? But such
                     men as this friend of ours"—and he indicated Ratcliffe with the same disdainful
                     movement of the head—"are apt to produce the impression that your militaires are not exactly what
                     General Hooker calls them, 'immensely superior, intellectually and physically,'
                     to the Southerners. When did a Southern officer break his parole and sneak from
                     a fair combat? When did a Southern officer trick his friend, and forge, and
                     lie? There is the man who has done all this, and he wears your blue uniform. In
                     ten minutes—or so—he is going to shoot me, with my hands bound behind me,
                     unarmed, because he is afraid of me, and knows that my death alone will
                     preserve him from personal chastisement."
                  Ratcliffe shuddered with rage, and the second time the trigger of his pistol clicked as he
                     cocked it; a second time the weapon was directed at Landon.
                  "Look! the Partisan said, with his short, harsh laugh; "this model United
                     States officer is going to shoot his disarmed enemy; and in all this company of
                     Federal officers, West Pointers, there is not one to even remonstrate."
                  "You are wrong!" said Arden, bounding forward. And, facing Ratcliffe, with
                     inexpressible scorn in his face, he said:—
                  "You attempted to dishonour me by breaking your parole yonder! You dishonour
                     the United States flag by your cowardly cruelty here! Well, end all at once!
                     Shoot me as well as your prisoner! You have shed my brother's blood; you have
                     disgraced a noble cause! Life is no longer supportable to me; come, order me to
                     be shot! But, before you do so, you cannot prevent me from branding you, in the
                     name of the officers of this army, as coward! coward! coward!"
                  And, advancing a step at each repetition of the word "coward," Arden drew off
                     his gauntlet, and was about to slap Ratcliffe in the face, when suddenly an
                     event occurred which put an abrupt end to the scene.
               
               
                  XLIII. NEMESIS.
                  ARDEN had scarcely uttered these words, full of vehement passion and scorn,
                     when a shot resounded from the direction of the river.
                  At that ominous sound every head turned; every ear listened.
                  Suddenly a shout was heard; a man came over the crest at full gallop, and,
                     darting into the midst of the cavalry men, cried:—
                  "Look out! the enemy are upon you!"
                  Ratcliffe's expression at that instant defied description. Never have I seen
                     rage, hatred, and disappointment more vividly depicted upon the human
                     countenance. In his eye was the savage glare of the wolf, forced to relinquish
                     the prey which he holds between his teeth, and driven to bay by the
                     huntsman.
                  By an instinctive movement, he made two steps toward his horse. Then his eye
                     fell upon Landon, and he returned toward the grave with a bound, shouting:—
                  "The rope!"
                  But the man whom he had ordered to bring it had hastened to mount his horse, and Ratcliffe
                     saw that it was too late.
                  Beyond the crest already resounded the trampling of hoofs, the shouts of men
                     evidently coming on at full gallop, and the crack of carbines as the assailants
                     drove all before them.
                  "To horse!" shouted Ratcliffe. Then he turned to Landon.
                  "You are going to be rescued, you think," he cried, hoarsely. "You are
                     wrong."
                  And, drawing his pistol, he aimed at Landon, and drew the trigger.
                  The weapon snapped, and Ratcliffe uttered a loud curse. Then, before he could
                     again cock the weapon, I witnessed a spectacle which made the blood leap
                     fiercely in my veins.
                  Landon, whose hands were still confined by the red sash behind him, cleared the
                     grave at one bound, threw himself upon Ratcliffe, and caught him by the throat
                     with his teeth.
                  The assault was so sudden that Ratcliffe could not defend himself. The teeth of
                     the Partisan were buried in the flesh, to which they clung with the tenacity of
                     a bloodhound.
                  Half strangled, with the blood spouting, with Landon's weight on his breast,
                     Ratcliffe staggered, uttered a low cry, and fell at full length on the ground
                     beneath his adversary.
                  Then a ferocious struggle took place between the two mortal enemies, who,
                     losing sight apparently of all else, concentrated all their energies upon the
                     conflict in which they were personally engaged.
                  Ratcliffe vainly attempted to tear Landon from his throat. The furious teeth
                     still clung to the mangled and bleeding flesh; a foam of blood encircled the
                     lips of the Partisan as he bit deeper and deeper; and from Ratcliffe's lips
                     escaped a hoarse and inarticulate cry, which had in it scarcely anything that
                     was human.
                  It was lost in a great uproar, which suddenly filled the air. Over the crest of
                     the hill, from the direction of the Shenandoah, a band of Partisans
                     appeared,—coming on at full gallop, and firing volleys at the Federal
                     cavalrymen, who mounted their horses in hot haste. In an instant the grassy
                     slope became the scene of a furious combat,—a chaos of smoke, dust, and blood,
                     above which rose yells, clashing sabres, and the quick trample of hoofs.
                  At the head of the assailants, with drawn sabre and glowing cheeks, rode
                     Blount. Beside him was Antoinette Duvarny, who, escaping, as I afterwards
                     heard, from her guard at "Bizarre," had arrived at the Chapel just as Landon's
                     men were dispersed, hastened to find Captain Blount, who she heard was near the
                     river, and now rode at his side in the charge upon her former comrades. Of that strange meeting with him whose
                     heart she had broken, I never heard any details.
                  The wild clash of arms for a moment diverted my attention from Landon and
                     Ratcliffe. The furious struggle of the enemies now absorbed me, and I lost
                     sight of all else.
                  Stretched at full length beneath his adversary, Ratcliffe vainly attempted to
                     shake off the mortal incubus.
                  "Help!" I heard him mutter, as Landon's teeth dug deeper into his streaming
                     throat. But his cry was unheard; in the wild melée he was not seen, or his fate
                     was uncared for.
                  I saw on the dark face the sickly hue of despair. The lips were convulsed, the
                     eyes protruded; the countenance of the Federal captain resembled a hideous mask
                     rather than the face of a human being.
                  His hands clutched madly at the grass, which he tore up by handfuls. Writhing
                     to and fro, dragging each other like wild animals, the bitter foes approached,
                     foot by foot, the brink of the newly-dug grave, into which it seemed probable
                     that they would fall, still locked in that deadly embrace.
                  All at once Ratcliffe uttered a cry of fierce satisfaction. His hand had fallen
                     upon the pistol which he had dropped when Landon sprung upon him, and I saw him
                     cock it and place the muzzle upon his adversary's breast.
                  I rose and staggered toward them. Then the blood rushed over my face, and I
                     fell forward.
                  A report followed.
                  I opened my eyes, looked toward the adversaries, and saw Landon fall back, pale
                     and covered with blood.
                  Ratcliffe had risen to his feet.
                  I shall never forget the agony of that moment, or the appearance of Ratcliffe.
                     As pale as a corpse, his breast shaking, his throat bleeding, he glanced at
                     Landon with an expression of diabolical triumph.
                  Then he threw a glance around him. That glance revealed everything. His men
                     were breaking in the wildest disorder, and the Partisans were pursuing their
                     flying adversaries in every direction, firing upon them, or cutting them down
                     with the sabre.
                  Ratcliffe saw that all was lost; that his situation was desperate, his capture
                     imminent; and he staggered toward a riderless horse, passing at the moment, the
                     bridle of which he caught.
                  His foot was in the stirrup when a loud exclamation escaped from his lips.
                  Coming to meet him, and, staggering like himself, I saw Captain Blount. His
                     face was white, and his breast bleeding. In his right hand he held a cocked
                     pistol.
                  "We have met at last!" he said, faintly.
                  "Blount!" Ratcliffe cried, hoarsely.
                  
                  "Yes, sir," said the captain of Partisans, in a low but deliberate voice; "the
                     gentleman whom your baseness ruined."
                  "I surrender!"
                  "It is too late, sir."
                  Ratcliffe recoiled before the pale and threatening face. Exerting all his
                     remaining strength, he threw himself into the saddle, and dug the spur into the
                     side of his animal.
                  Blount did not rush upon him as I expected. A strange smile came to his white
                     face, and he remained as motionless as a statue.
                  "I am—dying—" he murmured; "but—we will—go—together."
                  And, raising his pistol, he took deliberate aim, and fired. As the smoke
                     drifted, I saw that Blount had concentrated for this last act his whole
                     remaining strength; the pistol dropped from his grasp, and he fell forward,
                     dead.
                  Ratcliffe had uttered a wild cry, and I saw his hand go to his breast, from
                     which the blood spouted. He was still able, however, to retain his seat in the
                     saddle, and the speed of his horse was such that he would probably have
                     escaped, had it not been for an incident which resembled fatality.
                  As long as the flying animal continued his straight course, the Federal officer
                     was evidently strong enough to retain his seat in the saddle.
                  Suddenly, however, a bleeding body interposed itself directly in his path. The
                     horse snorted, and shied; and the movement decided the fate of Ratcliffe.
                  He was thrown, and his head struck violently against a ledge of rock. He rose,
                     his face covered with blood, his hands clutching at the air; then falling to
                     the earth, he writhed for a moment, and expired.
                  As he uttered his last groan the bleeding body which had made his horse shy,
                     writhed, half-erect. I recognized Antoinette Duvarny and saw a strange smile
                     upon her features. A moment afterwards her head drooped, and she was dead.
                  All this had passed in a few seconds. The death of Blount, and the singular end
                     of Ratcliffe, through the instrumentality of the woman so deeply wronged by
                     him, had riveted my whole attention, but now, all at once, the fate of Landon
                     became my absorbing thought.
                  In this whirlpool of death was he also to disappear? Was his wound a mortal
                     one? I rose and staggered toward him.
                  As I did so, I felt my head grow dizzy, and something in my throat seemed to
                     choke me. Reeling to him, I caught his body in my arms, murmured "Landon!"—I
                     could say no more,—and fell, lifeless almost, beside him.
                  My voice seemed to recall him from the very gates of death. His eyes opened faintly, and he
                     looked at me with that vacant expression which sends a pang through the
                     heart.
                  "Landon!" I repeated.
                  But he did not seem to hear me. His pale cheeks had suddenly flushed, his dull
                     eyes had grown brilliant; with a face glowing all over with an expression of
                     heroic tenderness, he stretched his arms faintly toward some one behind me.
                  "Oh, no!" he murmured, smiling; "I am not going to die now."
                  A low sob replied to him; a light and hurried step approached; a moment
                     afterwards Landon's form was encircled by the arm of Ellen Adair, and his head
                     had fallen upon her bosom.
               
            
            
               EPILOGUE.
               
                  I. THE BLUE COURIER.
                  IN the summer of 1865, after Lee's surrender, I paid a visit to my friend,
                     Colonel Beverley, at his estate of "The Oaks," in Fauquier.
                  I hope the worthy reader will not regard the transition from 1864 to 1865, and
                     from the fierce drama at the Old Chapel to the quiet scenes of peaceful days,
                     as too abrupt.
                  You saw—did you not, my dear reader?—that the drama ended yonder on that grassy
                     slope near the willows of the old graveyard; that any further scenes, when the
                     fifth act had ended, would be superfluous, and appear stale, flat, and
                     unprofitable? Believe me, there are few things more "fatal" than a real drama.
                     Do you wish to stop?—it drags you! Do you wish to go beyond the limit?—it holds
                     you back! When Macbeth is dead, the play ends, you see; and there is very
                     little to interest when Richard has carried away his hump into oblivion.
                  
                  So the drama tyrannizes, but there is the friendly and more obliging Epilogue.
                     Let us parody Sancho Panza, and say, "Blessed is the man who invented the
                     Epilogue,—for therein may be collected all the personages and events which have
                     been dismissed too unceremoniously in the drama!"
                  I am going, therefore, worthy reader, to tell you a little more about our
                     friends the Night-Hawks and their chief; and, as I have narrated in the
                     preceding sheets only what I witnessed or heard, I will continue to do so in
                     these concluding pages.
                  It was about the middle of April, 1865, then, when, having traversed the same
                     road from the Rapidan northward, which I had passed over in September, 1864, I
                     found myself—a prisoner on parole, with two horses, and the grand privilege of
                     remaining unmolested—at "The Oaks!" in the county of Fauquier.
                  I am not going to dwell upon the old homestead and the kind hearts there. Would
                     you know all about them? You have only to read my Memoirs. Many
                     scenes of that volume occur at "The Oaks." There I first met a young lady, who
                     is looking over my shoulder now as I write; and it was this face which I went
                     thither to see after Appomattox Court House, even before I came hither to
                     "Eagle's Nest" on the Rappahannock.
                  Observe how I try to find an excuse to tarry at "The Oaks!" 'Tis a charming
                     place, and the sun seems to shine brighter there than elsewhere in the world.
                     But I must come back to the personages who have played parts in this fierce
                     episode of my Memoirs.
                  My acquaintance with Landon—did you fancy him dead of his wound, reader?—was
                     renewed in a manner the most simple.
                  One morning a courier, dressed in blue, came to "The Oaks," with a
                     note from the Federal officer commanding just over the ridge. Would I oblige
                     him by repairing on the next morning, if convenient, to Millwood? He was
                     anxious to obtain from me, as an officer from General Lee's head-quarters,
                     details relating to the precise manner in which General Grant had paroled the
                     Confederate forces; the work in hand being to parole the Partisans of the
                     Shenandoah.
                  My blue friend—how familiar and like "old times" already, he looked!—was
                     exceedingly deferential, and waited, with his hand to his cap, for a reply. I
                     wrote it; he saluted and disappeared. On the next morning I mounted my horse
                     and set out for Ashby's Gap.
                  This time there were no Confederates on the fence of the old tavern at Paris—no
                     videttes at the ford of the Shenandoah—no Night-Hawks or blue people on picket
                     anywhere.
                  
                  But a mile further I saw them; and in the streets of Millwood were my old
                     friends of the night, mingling with Federal cavalrymen in charming fellowship.
                     They were laughing, joking, and jesting at each other; and at the head of the
                     Night-Hawks was Landon.
               
               
                  II. MY LAST LOOK AT THE RED-CROSS FLAG.
                  THE Partisan greeted me with cordial warmth, and introduced me to the commander
                     of the Federal forces, with whom I proceeded to converse upon the business
                     which had brought me.
                  "We have agreed on a truce till twelve to-day," said Landon, when I had
                     finished, "and if by that time we do not settle terms of surrender, I am to go
                     with my Night-Hawks to open the war again."
                  "You shall not be forced to do that, captain," said the Federal officer, whose
                     tone was perfectly courteous.
                  And the negotiations commenced.
                  At twelve they were not concluded, and Landon mounted his horse.
                  "Form column!" he said to his men, "and unroll the flag!"
                  At the word the Night-Hawks sprung to horse, and the red battle-flag of the
                     Confederacy floated proudly in the wind.
                  Never shall I forget my feelings as I saw that banner again given to the air! I
                     had seen it furled on the
                     Appomattox; I now saw it unrolled again on the Shenandoah! My heart throbbed,
                     and my hand went to my side, feeling for the sabre.
                  Alas! there was none there. But I went and "fell in" by Landon.
                  The Federal cavalry had sprung to horse at the moment when Landon mounted. The
                     men in blue and gray, but a moment before jesting with each other, laid their
                     hands upon their sword-hilts.
                  For the last time I saw the gray ranks face the blue in line of battle; for the
                     last time the red-cross flag flaunt proudly in the face of the Stars and
                     Stripes!
                  "Forward!" trembled on Landon's lips, and his eye flashed.
                  What would have happened, I know not; but at that moment hoof-strokes were
                     heard upon the turnpike; a courier came at full gallop from the direction of
                     Winchester; and the next instant the Federal officer in command was reading a
                     dispatch.
                  As he finished, he bowed to Landon, and said:—
                  "I am glad to inform you, captain, that General Hancock has extended the truce
                     until sunset this evening, and the Partisan troops are placed upon the same
                     footing as General Lee's army. They will be paroled on the same terms."
                  Landon bowed gloomily.
                  "I accept the terms of parole for my command," he said.
                  And, breaking ranks by his order, the men formally surrendered and were
                     paroled, retaining their horses and side-arms.
                  Then, without word, they mounted and formed line. All eyes were turned to
                     Landon; it was plain that they were waiting for his last words to them.
                  He spurred forward, his head erect, his eye flashing, his keen glance running
                     along the line, as though to see that it was "dressed."
                  Then, removing his hat, he spoke.
                  I will not attempt to repeat his words. I could do so, for they thrilled
                     through me. Again my heart throbbed hotly. I recall every word, every accent,
                     and every expression of the face of the Partisan.
                  As he spoke, the rough Rangers stirred and murmured. With flushed faces and
                     flashing eyes, they seemed to go back and live over the glorious days when they
                     chased the very blue horsemen now before them.
                  Landon ended his brief and fiery address in a few minutes. Then, turning with
                     an electric gesture toward the red flag which one of the men had seized and
                     unrolled, he drew his sword, and said in his deep, proud voice:—
                  "I salute the flag which history will salute forever!"
                  
                  A whirl of the arm—the sabre at a salute, in which the whole band imitated
                     him—a burst of cheers—and the Night-Hawks looked at Landon.
                  "Break ranks!" he said.
                  And, as he spurred into their midst, the men seized his hand, his coat, and
                     seemed utterly unable to control the wild sobs that burst from them.
                  In another instant the Partisan had made me a sign, and we were proceeding at a
                     full gallop toward "Bizarre."
               
               
                  III. IN ARMS TO THE LAST
                  I SAW that Landon's emotion was nearly choking him, and did not utter a
                     word.
                  We passed on rapidly, entered the forest, swept along beneath the great oaks,
                     and suddenly came in sight of "Bizarre."
                  Then, as we approached, I saw all at once the gleam of a robe at the great
                     gate. A form hastened to meet us, the sweet eyes full of tears. Landon sprung
                     from his horse, and catching the young lady in his arms, allowed his head to
                     fall upon her shoulder.
                  "I have surrendered!" he said, hoarsely. "I was obliged to, on my men's
                     account."
                  And for the first time a fiery tear dimmed his eye.
                  "It is hard,—is it not, colonel?" he said with his proud head raised, and a
                     faint smile upon his lips; "it makes children of us old soldiers!"
                  Then, taking the lady's hand he held it out to me and said:—
                  "You know Mrs. Landon!"
                  It was Ellen Adair's bright eyes which looked at me, her warm hand which
                     pressed mine, her smiling lips which
                     greeted me; and we walked on, in pleasant talk, to the old mansion.
                  "Bizarre" was still "torn down" and war-worn in appearance,—but all our
                     Virginia homes were thus in '65. The old mansion seemed to smile upon us,
                     nevertheless, as we approached; the great door stood hospitably open. As we
                     entered the hall, the old portraits, in lace and powder, on the dim canvas,
                     seemed to smile, but not so brightly as the lovely face of Ellen Adair, as I
                     will still call her, who was beside me.
                  Then, all at once, there came out of the parlour to meet us, a charming maiden
                     of seventeen or eighteen, who approached and gave me her hand. It was Miss
                     Annie Meadows, full of smiles and blushes, and behind her came, limping, and
                     leaning on his brother Ralph, no less a personage than my dear Harry Arden.
                  So you see, reader, nobody that was worth living was dead, except the noble
                     Blount and the brave Touch-and-go. And even they—they sleep, but are not
                     dead!
                  Harry Arden had been desperately wounded, but was brought with Landon after the
                     fight to "Bizarre," where I left them to return to Petersburg. Landon had soon
                     recovered, and had been married for a month. Harry was nearly well; and it was
                     plain that "Annie" had been "thinking" a great deal of him, and was soon going
                     to become Mrs. Arden. As to Ralph, he had never again entered the army; had
                     returned to Delaware; put on citizens' clothes; was on a visit to his brother
                     now, and gave me one of the most cordial pressures of the hand I ever
                     received.
                  An hour afterwards, Landon and myself had strolled to Lover's Leap. From the
                     shadowy pine wood came a pensive sigh; the murmur of the Shenandoah ascended to
                     the great rock; and on the slopes of the Blue Ridge the red sunset fell in
                     mellow splendour.
                  Landon leaned against the solitary pine and mused. The hour subdued me too,
                     and, resting my head upon my hand, I fell into a reverie. They were
                     bitter—those reveries—in April, '65, friend. Did you dream then, as we did? I
                     have had pleasanter dreams.
                  Landon sighed as he gazed on the splendid landscape.
                  "Surrender!—the flag lowered!" I heard him murmur,—"we have lost all."
                  "But me!"
                  And a form passed me, two tender arms clasped him; the head of Ellen Adair was
                     resting upon his heart.
                  A week afterwards I was at Eagle's Nest.
                  
                  And in this spring of 1868, I have found time to write the history of St. Leger
                     Landon.
                  May you like it, my dear reader!
                  
                     SURRY OF EAGLE'S NEST.
                  
               
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            NEW BOOKS
            And New Editions Recently Published by CARLETON, Publisher, NEW
               YORK.
            N.B.—THE PUBLISHFRS, upon receipt of the price in advance, will send any of the
               following Books by mail, POSTAGE FREE, to any part of the United States. This
               convenient and very safe mode may be adopted when the neighboring Book-sellers are
               not supplied with the desired work. State name and address in full.
            
               Victor Hugo.
               LES MISÉRABLES.—The celebrated novel. One large 8vo volume, paper covers,
                  $2.00; cloth bound, $2.50
               LES MISÉRABLES.—In the Spanish language. Fine 8vo. edition, two vols., paper
                  covers, $4.00; cloth bound, $5.00
               JARGAL.—A new novel. Illustrated. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE LIFE OF VICTOR HUGO.—By himself. 8vo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               Miss Muloch.
               JOHN HALIFAX.—A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               A LIFE FOR A LIFE.—A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               Charlotte Bronte (Currer Bell).
               JANE EYRE.—A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE PROFESSOR.—A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               SHIRLEY.—A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               VILLETTE.—A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               Hand-Books of Society.
               THE HABITS OF GOOD SOCIETY; with thoughts, hints, and anecdotes, concerning
                  nice points of taste, good manners, and the art of making oneself agreeable. The
                  most entertaining work of the kind. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE ART OF CONVERSATION.—With directions for self-culture. A sensible and
                  instructive work, that ought to be in the hands of every one who wishes to be
                  either an agreeable talker or listener. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               ARTS OF WRITING, READING, AND SPEAKING.—An excellent book for self-instruction
                  and improvement. 12mo, cloth, $1.50
               HAND-BOOKS OF SOCIETY.—The above three choice volumes are also bound in extra
                  style, full gilt ornamental back, uniform in appearance, and put up in a handsome
                  box. Price for the set of three, $5.00
            
            
               Algernon Charles Swinburne.
               LAUS VENERIS, AND OTHER POEMS.—12mo, cloth, $1.75
            
            
            
               Mrs. Mary J. Holmes' Works.
               'LENA RIVERS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               DARKNESS AND DAYLIGHT.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               TEMPEST AND SUNSHINE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               MARIAN GREY.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               MEADOW BROOK.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               ENGLISH ORPHANS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               DORA DEANE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               COUSIN MAUDE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               HOMESTEAD ON THE HILLSIDE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               HUGH WORTHINGTON.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               THE CAMERON PRIDE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               ROSE MATHER.—Just Published. A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
               Miss Augusta J. Evans.
               BEULAH.—A novel of great power 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               MACARIA.—A novel of great power 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               ST. ELMO.—A novel of great power Just Published 12mo. cloth,
                  $2.00
            
            
               By the Author of "Rutledge."
               RUTLEDGE.—A deeply interesting novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE SUTHERLANDS.—A deeply interesting novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               FRANK WARRINGTON.—A deeply interesting novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               ST. PHILIP'S.—A deeply interesting novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               LOUIE'S LAST TERM AT ST. MARY'S.—12mo. cloth, $1.75
               ROUNDHEARTS AND OTHER STORIES.—For children. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               A ROSARY FOR LENT.—Devotional Readings. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               Captain Mayne Reid's Works—Illustrated.
               THE SCALP HUNTERS.—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE RIFLE RANGERS.—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE TIGER HUNTER.—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               OSOEOLA, THE SEMINOLE.—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE WAR TRAIL.—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE HUNTER'S FEAST.—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               RANGERS AND REGULATORS.—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE WHITE CHIEF.—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE QUADROON.—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE WILD HUNTRESS.—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE WOOD RANGERS—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               WILD LIFE.—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE MAROON.—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               LOST LEONORE.—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE HEADLESS HORSEMAN.—A romance. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE WHITE GAUNTLET.—Just Published. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               A. S. Roe's Works.
               A LONG LOOK AHEAD.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               TO LOVE AND TO BE LOVED.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               TIME AND TIDE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               I'VE BEEN THINKING.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               THE STAR AND THE CLOUD.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               TRUE TO THE LAST.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               HOW COULD HE HELP IT?—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               LIKE AND UNLIKE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               LOOKING AROUND.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               WOMAN OUR ANGEL.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               THE CLOUD ON THE HEART.—12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
               Orpheus C. Kerr.
               THE ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS.—Three vols. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               SMOKED GLASS.—New comic book. Illustrated. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               A VERY GLIBUN.—A powerful new novel.—8vo. cloth, $2.00
            
            
               Richard B. Kimball.
               WAS HE SUCCESSFUL?—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               UNDERCURRENTS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               SAINT LEGER.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               ROMANCE OF STUDENT LIFE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               IN THE TROPICS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               HENRY POWERS, Banker.—Just Published. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               Comic Books—Illustrated.
               ARTEMUS WARD, His Book.—Letters, etc. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               ARTEMUS WARD, His Travels—Mormons, etc. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               ARTEMUS WARD, In London.—Punch Letters. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               JOSH BILLINGS ON ICE, and other things—12mo. cl., $1.50
               JOSH BILLINGS ON ICE, His Book of Proverbs, etc. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               WIDOW SPRIGGINS.—By author "Widow Bedott." 12mo. cl., $1.75
               FOLLY AS IT FLIES.—By Fanny Fern. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               CORRY O'LANUS.—His views and opinions. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               VERDANT GREEN.—A racy English college story. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               CONDENSED NOVELS, ETC.—By F. Bret Harte. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               THE SQUIBOB PAPERS.—By John Phœnix. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               MILES O'REILLY.—His Book of Adventures. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               MILES O'REILLY.—Baked Meats, etc. 12mo. cl., $1.75
            
            
               "Brick" Pomeroy.
               SENSE.—An illustrated vol. of fireside musings. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               NONSENSE.—An illustrated vol. of comic sketches. 12mo. cl., $1.50
            
            
               Joseph Rodman Drake.
               THE CULPRIT FAY.—A faery poem. 12mo. cloth, $1.25
               THE CULPRIT FAY.—An illustrated edition. 100 exquisite illustrations 410.,
                  beautifully printed and bound. $5.00
            
            
            
               Children's Books—Illustrated.
               THE ART OF AMUSING.—With 150 illustrations. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               FRIENDLY COUNSEL FOR GIRLS.—A charming book. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               THE CHRISTMAS FONT.—By Mary J. Holmes. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               ROBINSON CRUSOE.—A Complete edition. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               LOUIE'S LAST TERM.—By author "Rutledge." 12mo. cl., $1.75
               ROUNDHEARTS, and other stories.—"Rutledge." 12mo. cl., $1.75
               PASTIMES WITH MY LITTLE FRIENDS.—12mo. cl., $1.50
               WILL-O'-THE-WISP.—From the German. 12mo. cl., $1.50
            
            
               M. Michelet's Remarkable Works.
               LOVE (L'AMOUR).—Translated from the French. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               WOMAN (LA FEMME).—Translated from the French 12mo. cl., $1.50
            
            
               Ernest Renan.
               THE LIFE OF JESUS.—Translated from the French. 12mo. cl., $1.75
               THE APOSTLES.—Translated from the French. 12mo. cl., $1.75
            
            
               Popular Italian Novels.
               DOCTOR ANTONIO.—A love story. By Ruffini. 12mo. cl., $1.75
               BEATRICE CENCI.—By Guerrazzi, with portrait. 12mo. cl., $1.75
            
            
               Rev. John Cumming, D.D., of London.
               THE GREAT TRIBULATION.—Two series. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               THE GREAT PREPARATION.—Two series. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               THE GREAT CONSUMMATION. Two series. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               THE LAST WARNING CRY.—12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
               Mrs. Ritchie (Anna Cora Mowatt).
               FAIRY FINGERS.—A capital new novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE MUTE SINGER.—A capital new novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE CLERGYMAN'S WIFE—and other stories. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               Mother Goose for Grown Folks.
               HUMOROUS RHYMES for grown people. 12mo. cloth, 1.25
            
            
               T. S. Arthur's New Works.
               LIGHT ON SHADOWED PATHS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               OUT IN THE WORLD.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               NOTHING BUT MONEY.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               WHAT CAME AFTERWARDS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               OUR NEIGHBORS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
               Geo. W. Carleton.
               OUR ARTIST IN CUBA.—With 50 comic illustrations $1.50
               OUR ARTIST IN PERU.—With 50 comic illustrations $1.50
               OUR ARTIST IN AFRICA.—(In press) With 50 comic illustrations
                  $1.50
            
            
               John Esten Cooke.
               FAIRFAX.—A Virginian novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               HILT TO HILT.—A Virginian novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
               How to Make Money
               AND HOW TO KEEP IT.—A practical, readable book, that ought to be in the hands
                  of every person who wishes to earn money or to keep what he has. One of the best
                  books ever published. By Thomas A. Davies. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
               J. Cordy Jeaffreson.
               A BOOK ABOUT LAWYERS.—A collection of interesting anecdotes and incidents
                  connected with the most distinguished members of the Legal Profession. 12mo.
                  cloth, $2.00
            
            
               Fred. Saunders.
               WOMAN, LOVE, AND MARRIAGE.—A charming volume about three most fascinating
                  topics. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
               Edmund Kirke.
               AMONG THE PINES.—Or Life in the South. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               MY SOUTHERN FRIENDS.—Or Life in the South. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               DOWN IN TENNESSEE.—Or Life in the South. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               ADRIFT IN DIXIE.—Or Life in the South. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               AMONG THE GUERILLAS.—Or Life in the South. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
               Charles Reade.
               THE CLOISTER AND THE HEARTH.—A magnificent new novel—the best this author ever
                  wrote. 8vo. cloth, $2.00
            
            
               The Opera.
               TALES FROM THE OPERAS.—A collection of clever stories, based upon the plots of
                  all the famous operas. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
               Robert B. Roosevelt.
               THE GAME-FISH OF THE NORTH.—Illustrated. 12mo. cloth, $2.00
               SUPERIOR FISHING.—Illustrated. 12mo. cloth, $2.00
               THE GAME-BIRDS OF THE NORTH.—Illustrated. 12mo. cloth, $2.00
            
            
               Love in Letters.
               A collection of piquant love-letters, selected from the amatory correspondence
                  of the most celebrated and notorious men and women of History. By J. G. Wilson.
                  $2.00
            
            
               Dr. J. J. Craven.
               THE PRISON-LIFE OF JEFFERSON DAVIS.—Incidents and conversations during his
                  captivity. 12mo. cloth. $2.00
            
            
               Walter Barrett, Clerk.
               THE OLD MERCHANTS OF NEW YORK—Piquant personal incidents, bits of biography,
                  estimates of wealth, and interesting events in the lives of nearly all the leading
                  Merchants of New York City. Four volumes. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               H. T. Sperry.
               COUNTRY LOVE vs. CITY FLIRTATION.—An amusing, satirical Society poem,
                  illustrated with twenty superb full-page drawings by Augustus Hoppin. 12mo. cloth,
                  $2.00
            
            
            
               Miscellaneous Works.
               WARWICK.—A novel by Mansfield Tracy Walworth $1.75
               REGINA, and other Poems.—By Eliza Cruger $1.50
               THE WICKEDEST WOMAN IN NEW YORK.—By C. H. Webb 50
               MONTALBAN.—A new American novel $1.75
               MADEMOISELLE MERQUEM.—A novel by George Sand $1.75
               THE IMPENDING CRISIS OF THE SOUTH.—By H. R. Helper $2.00
               NOJOQUE—A Question for a Continent.—By H. R. Helper $2.00
               TEMPLE HOUSE.—A novel by Elizabeth Stoddard $1.75
               PARIS IN 1867.—By Henry Morford $1.75
               THE BISHOP'S SON.—A novel by Alice Cary $1.75
               CRUISE OF THE ALABAMA AND SUMTER.—By Capt. Semmes $2.00
               HELEN COURTENAY.—A novel, author "Vernon Grove." $1.75
               SOUVENIRS OF TRAVEL.—By Madame Octavia W. LeVert $2.00
               VANQUISHED.—A novel by Agnes Leonard $1.75
               WILL-O'-THE-WISP.—A child's book, from the German $1.50
               FOUR OAKS.—A novel by Kamba Thorpe $1.75
               THE CHRISTMAS FONT.—A child's book, by M. J. Holmes $1.00
               ALICE OF MONMOUTH.—By Edmund C. Stedman $1.50
               THE LOST CAUSE REGAINED.—By Edward A. Pollard $1.50
               MALBROOK.—A new American novel $1.75
               POEMS, BY SARAH T. BOLTON $1.50
               LIVES OF JOHN S. MOSBY AND MEN.—With portraits $1.75
               THE SHENENDOAH.—History of the Confederate Cruiser $1.50
               MARY BRANDEGEE.—A novel by Cuyler Pine $1.75
               RENSILAWE—A novel by Cuyler Pine $1.75
               MEMORIALS OF JUNIUS BRUTUS BOOTH—(The Elder Actor) $1.50
               MOUNT CALVARY.—By Matthew Hale Smith $2.00
               LOVE-LIFE OF DR. ELISHA K. KANE AND MARGARET FOX $1.75
               PROMETHEUS IN ATLANTIS.—A prophecy $2.00
               TITAN AGONISTES.—An American novel $2.00
               CHOLERA.—A handbook on its treatment and cure $1.00
               THE MONTANAS.—A novel by Sallie J. Hancock $1.75
               PASTIMES WITH LITTLE FRIENDS.—Martha Haines Butt $1.50
               LIFE OF JAMES STEPHENS.—The Fenian Head-Centre $1.00
               TREATISE ON DEAFNESS.—By Dr. E. B. Lighthill $1.50
               AROUND THE PYRAMIDS.—By Gen. Aaron Ward $1.50
               CHINA AND THE CHINESE.—By W. L. G. Smith $1.50
               EDGAR POE AND HIS CRITICS.—By. Mrs. Whitman $1.00
               MARRIED OFF.—An Illustrated Satirical Poem. 50
               THE RUSSIAN BALL.—An Illustrated Satirical Poem. 50
               THE SNOBLACE BALL.—An Illustrated Satirical Poem. 50
               AN ANSWER TO HUGH MILLER.—By Thomas A. Davies $1.50
               COSMOGONY.—By Thomas A. Davies $2.00
               RURAL ARCHITECTURE.—By M. Field. Illustrated $2.00
            
         
      
   
