
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). Life in the Saddle, or, The Cavalry Scout .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6968
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Life in the saddle, or, The cavalry scout 
            
               '.4


g/ . 4

LIFE IN THE SADDLE
OE,
. shze (sarig #tt

LATE OF THE

BY
FIRST

NED BUNTLINE,                 A t ,
REGIMENT NEW YORK MOUNTED RIFLE.

x1   ' i

s' 5~
a Tta J   r

NEW YORK:
PREDERIC A. BRADY, PUBLISHER,
No. 2 ANN STREET.

z iV
UK'z

;

l"£'k
sj
_,
r          ,
'
e
s
r°
.
..x
i         ,
s'
} 7 ;
.
!,
!;
i

:
.
a
;


4

I

ENrmn according to Act of Congress, in the year 1864,
By CAULDWLL &amp; WHrrNET,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York.

LIFE IN THE SADDLE:
OR,
Ehe  amby-  t.

CHAPTER I.
"And they who for their country die
Shall ill an honored grave ;
For glory lights thesoldiers tomb,
And beauty weeps the brave !"
It was night, and in a dense grove of scrub-
by pines, about a mile back from the main
road which led from Suffolk, through Wind-
sor to the old Blackwater Bridge, in Virgin-
ia, there was a group and a scene which
would have made a fine "study" for a paint-
cr. A cheerful fire was burning in an open
space in the dense grove, and about it
were gathered a party of just eighteen
men ; men whose blue jackets, trimmed
with yellow braid, as well as their short
carbines, loaded revolvers and steel-seab-
barded sabres, as also the spurs on their
heels, revealed the arm of the Federal serv-
ice to which they belonged as cavalry,
Their horses were fastened to trees just
outside of the little circle of cleared ground,
and were munching away at the oats in their
nose-bags, with an avidity that showed they
had not been fed very lately.
Over the fire around which the men were
grouped, there were several chickens and
turkeysroasting or broiling; and two or three
small Oioats lay dressed in the background,
from which the men cut slices now and then,
which they roasted on sticks cut from the
trees near at hand. Tin cups of coffee were
also simmering on the coals, and such of the
men as wanteI a taste of "apple-jack" had
only to gO to one of a half-dozen canteens
that hung from a limb near by, to find a sip
of that favorite Virginian beverage.
By their dress, it could be seen that all of
these men were privates except one, and he
did not wear "shoulder-straps".
The one who made the exception only
wore the chevrons of a sergeant, but on his
right fore aim was the gold bar, known as

the battle-stripe, a mark of honor given to
denote that he had distinguished himself in
action against the enemy-an honor, too,
shared by most of his companions, for they
also wore a similar golden stripe on their
arms.
And now, reader, as they are to be your
companions for some time, allow me to intro-
duce you to sergeant Ernest Clifford and lilt
companions, as the picked scouts of the
Mounted Rifles ; a body of men more hated
and dreaded by the Rebels on the Blackwater
and Chowan line than any other men in the
Federal Army, for the graybacks never knew
when or where to find them, but often did
find them where they least expected or want-
ed to.
. There were two more men belonging to
this party, but they were out near the road
on picket-guard, watching the only point
from which the party around the fire could
be attacked ; for in the rear of the pine-grove,
and flanking it also on both sides, was an
immense cypress-swamp, alike impervious
to man or horse. The two guards were so
posted that they could see any parties which
passed along the road ; and as they were re-
lieved by comrades every two hours, and it
was not a stormy night, though a cloudy one,
their duty was not very hard.
But tieir position was not without its
perils. They were fifteen miles from the
pickets of the Army at Suffolk, and within
two or three miles of the pickets of the Rebel
Army.
Gen. Roger Pryor, of bowie-knife-declen-
sion notoriety, when he was a dueling M. C.,
was in command of a brigade of infantry, a
couple of regiments of cavalry, and two or
three batteries of artillery, all within a few
miles of this secluded spot ; and he made fre-
quent advances toward our lines either for
forage for his men and horses, to disturb the


4

LIFE LN TIIE SAI))LE.

few Unionists outside of our lines, or to
threaten our pickets and disturb our forces
at Suffolk, always falling back when force
n a3 sent to fight him.
To watch him, cut off his scouts, and occa-
.ionally drive in his pickets, and to make
them believe that the Yankees were coming
in force, was the business of Sergeant Clit-
sord and his brother-scouts ;inc picked
from the whole regiment for their mntelli-
gence, courage, skilfin horsemanship and in
the use of their weapons. Not one of them
but ltd come from happy homes and the en-
jovuent of luxury in their native Empire
. date to sei e as volunteers in the  s ar ; not
one of theta that w £ not, by education,
birth, and association, when at home, a gein-
tltman.
All of them young. all Americans, it would
cemi strange to foreigners of a similar class
in society, to see them not only acting as
privates, but choosing the most arduous and
perilous duty which could be found in the
Army, of their own free will-the most ar-
duous, the most dangerous, therefore far the
most exciting and the most honorable.
I cannot at present introduce all of them to
you by name, but there are a couple sitting
there on a log with the Sergeant, one on each
.sde of him, who may as well be made
known to you by name now as later, for
you will know a good deal of them in a short
time.
They arc both very ditTerent-looking from
the Scrgeant, who, by the way, is the oldest
nian ofhis party, being well on toward forty
years of age.  Ills dark-brown hair and
mustache shade a face on which several scars
are seen, and his bronzed visage has a care
amid tne s orin look. This is not his first
war, and he has seen years of hardship be-
fore lie took the saddle to help put down this
rebellion.
The young man on his right, George
Bruce, has not numbered over three-and-
twenty years of life : there is no shadow on
his bright brow, no care in the dancing light
of his keen black eye, and were it not for the
:car of a sabre-cut, which has left a livid
mark across his right cheek from the brow
to the chin, his face would be pronounced
faultlessly liandsomoe. His figure is a marvel
of strength and beauty ;tamt his expression
dletnotes a fearless spirit and a superahund-
ance of fun in his nature. Ills long black
hair curls naturally about his neck and
shoulders, and shines glossily in the light of
the blazing camp-fire.
He has a  art of a broiled chicken in one
hand, a hard biscuit in the other, and on the
ground before him smokes his tin cup of
coffee.
On the left of the Sergeant sits another

roman, John Dolan, who is probably a little
older than Bruce-at any rate, he looks more
sage and serious. You would say at a
glance that the Churc had lost a preacher
when he chose the sabre of steel in lieu of
the "sword of the Gospel". His light-brown
hair was cut short, revealing a well-shaped
head and a very high and broad forehead.
His features were large and strongly indica-
tive of a very firm, resolute, and serious
character. His frame was stout and mascu-
line, his height a little less than that of either
of his immediate c impanions.
IHe also, like them, was occupied with his
supper, eating slowly, and talking in his usual
slow way while he ate.
"Sergeant," said he, speaking so slow that
it seemed as if utterance was a labor, "do you
mean to stay here all night ?"'
"Pretty nearly, if there is no alarm from
the outpost!" replied Clifford. "We've had
a long ride to-day, and the horses had a pret-
ty hard run when we had to skedaddle down
there at (Jarsville. If there had been only a
squadron instead of a full battalion of Rebs,
I would rather have fought them than to
have run our horses so hard. But twenty
men against four hundred is rather too great
odds even for the Rifles ! I want to let the
horses rest a few hours, if possible, for we
may have another run iif we beat up their
pickets at Zuni to-morrow!"
"Well, I am sure I had rather rest thiam
ride to-night ' said Dolan. "it wil not be
may 'relie' until five o'clock in the morn-
ing, and if I sleep until then, I'll feel like a
new tian!"
"'Well, say your prayers and ground your-
self !" said Bruce, with a laugh. " I have to
go on guard at ten, and I shant try to sleep
till my turn is over t"
" If you said ?your prayers oftener, and swor'-
less, you'd be m a better way than you are'
said Dolan, quietly, as he drank oil the last of
his cofee ; and then, taking his blanket from
the log upon which lie had been sittiig,he
threw it down on the ground and laidim-
self upon it, with his feet toward the fire.
"I reckon John is right !" said Bruce, with
a laugh. "But I never wasmade for a saint.
so I must remain a sinner. I've been think-
ing half the afternoon where my spirit
would be now, if that bullet which ventilated
my hat when we came on the Rebels so stid-
denly this mornii, had gone three or four
inches lower than it did, and made a hole in
ny brain-pan !"
"You wouldn't have lost any brains if it
had !" said Dolan, with a quiet smile on his
fakse. lie never indulged in anything nearer
to a laugh.
"Now, John, that is positively cruel
cried Bruce, in an affectedly lachrymose

I

LIFE IN TIlE SADDLE.
tone, "I can bear- anything better than twit- ished their suppers, and to water then at a
ting on ftcts.                          pool near by, and then to lie down and rest
Getting nothing further from Dolan, Bruce as much as they could, for he meant to move
turned to the Sergeant and asked whether he from their present position an hour before
thought that that their sympathetic friends in daylight ; also to look carefully to their arms,
the North could realize the hardships which and to bridle their horses alter they had fed
they were enduring.                     and'taken water, so as to be ready for any-
- Nothing but broiled pig, roast turkey, thing that might happen in the night.
ditto goose, ditto chicken, and plenty ot coffee  He had but just given these orders when
and apple-jack to swim thema in !" said he, thesound of bugles and drums could be heard
with a sigh. '"IIard tack und roasted sweet distinctly in the distance to the West. It was
potatoes, too, for a relief.  But the butter; the music of the Rebels, beating their nine-
-none of that! If a GoShenite was here, he o'clock " tattoo".
might forget himself and swear a little if
Dolan wasn't awake to (heck him! I think             CHAPTE R    II.
I must send home to my lady-friends for   A short time after the ' tattoo" and "taps"
some preserves and poundeake. It's a pity had been heard from the Rebel cami), the two
that they can't box up some ice-cream for us. sentinels who had been poste~l out by the
I think the unsanitary Comnuission ought to road, having been relieved by Bruce and an-
sup)ly us with ices and ioman punch. Ill other man, came in.
write on to Uncle Abraham and tell hind we  " Ias anythingoccurred since you were on
need such things sadly. % e've been ten- post of importance ?" asked Clifford, as the
ierly brought up, and this sudden transition mencame to him to report.
trom whipped sy liabub to-"     -        " A mounted man rode by us from the
"Blast it, you 11 he a whipped silly bub, if direction of the Rebel lines, at full speed,
VoU dion t tie up your tongue and let me go about an hour ago," replied one of the men.
to slcep t' grow led Daolan. raising his head " You ga-c us orders not to fire, you know,
iou under his blanket with an angry jerk,  on any account ; and as we could not stop
-There, there, pirdon ! Don't get out of him in any other way, we let him go without
patience. Remember Job and his boils, and hailing him !"
don t you boil over !" said Bruce, with a  "That was right. ie may have been a
lauteh. " Look yonder, your horse has got deserter, or perhaps-as it is shorter across bv
lk rilht lore-foot fast!!"            this road than down the other bank Ol the
Dola sprung to his feet and hurried to river-they may have sent a courier onsoeni
look after his horse. lie came back in a business across to Franklin, or some othe-
minute. looking as mad as his good-nature post toward the mouth of the river. Could
tver would let him look,               you see the man distinctly ?"
George lruce!" sai  he, " if you 1e-  "No ; his horse showed plainly, being a
tiged to the inhmtntry, or atnythingbut the white, or light gray, but he went by so like a
ti Ititi   d,1 dutid it ashyou till you was clash that we could hardly see tire shape oh'
blnd l'                                 him. He was armed, for we could hear thu
,  -W\\hy, whaton earth is the matter t"asked rattle of his sabre !"
George, the very picture of innocence, in  " Well, let him go. I'll put a couple of
looks as well as tome-.                 the boys on his track when dayi ght comes"
" \\Why, you said my horse had a foot- fast, said the Sergeant. "Get your suppers n
and there he stands all right-" -       turn in, I've had your horses attended to
SThe  isn't every toot he has got fast to while you were on post
the leg above it ' asked George, triumph-  [he men were hungry and needed l!.tle
mnly.                                 urging.
"TIhunder!. Wyl can't you take some    And now, reader, we will follow    this
time, for your joke; a hen a felow isn't tired strange horseman, and see wo and what bc
tad seepy                                       or    n    d    w    i    h
"Because then lie is apt to be too lazy to  On, with a speed which no stranger would
appreciate them!1" said George.         be apt to keep in a dark night on a road
But go to sleep now, John ; I'll disturb with which lhe was not acquainted, the ma'
you no more. It is nearly time fot me to go spurred his horse. The houses were tw
on guard. Sleep soundly, my boy, for no that he passed, and inhabited only by women
iattubuitious lb shall disturb your slum- and children, for the men in that section had
hers while Ilm on post.                 all cilher volunteered for or been drafted into
And George began to examine his arms, to the Rebel Array. Some few old and worth-
*re that they sere in order for duty.   less negroes still remained, but all that were
The Sergeant now   told his man to rub good for anything had either escaped into
down their horses as1 soon as they had tin- the Federal lines, where they were sure o1

i


(3

LIFE IN TIE SADDLE.

naed employment, or had been sent ornament nor dress to enhance it. He figure,
, ihe far South, to be used on Rebel tortili- though petite, was graceiul even to periec-
etI a or kept out of Yankee hands.     tion. No sculptor would have looked further
A   ;ing the little village of Windsor, for a model of beauty after having seen her.
;":13 t .-metimes a Federal force came out to Ier eyes were very large, jetty black, and of
.ol a night in reconnoisance, the horse- that liquid look which tells of slumberinf
1.m1 took a by-path through the woods to passion-eyes which could melt with love, r
Sr 'ht, and 'did not resuine the main road tiash like lightning if' the volcanic tire of
ni it u:er he had crossed the Petersburg &amp;  anger once raged in her bosom.
No 2:k lailroad, a hl:df mile to the east-  The blonde would have been called hanl-
r of Windsor. Atler getting on the Suf- some anywhere ; but the brunette would
?k roil again, he rode about a mile further, have been pronounced ravishingly beautifi f
tI.n. turning to a lone which led toward by any assembly into which she could hi o.,
" h m 11me mansion i the left hand of the been introduced.
-!,he apu:iir l !an ordinary gate. lIe  And yet she was but an octoroon, a slave,
-i   p)e to diin'maunt und open it ; but the property of Mr. Barrett, that whi-
"4'g his hor..e i ihlithe spur, the noble haired old planter, whose son, a major in the'
-n, v ithi a Iap wli hel hFPke well for its First Virginia Rebel Cavalry, was now loo ;-
S   1 and t uiing ant his horsemuanship, ing through the window.
S"t.1it galotivy. IIe theii galloped up to  " By Jove, Elise has grown into a perfuet
:. 'lvi heie were lights in the house, woman since I saw her last !" lie muttered, -
-hi shiov, ed that the inmates had not yet as he gazed intently at the young octoroon.
S1, thmou-h it was mnow near ten o'clo-k. " She is a smnrt slit lhandsoumer than my
mantoshiow irag a knwledhe of the sister Delia. It wili never do to leave tier
.mimi es, role directl ' to the stables in the here for the Yankees to carry her oIl 1
r +f the house, oil put his horse into one reckon I'll have to take her to Richemnl
t h  stlls, not removing his bridle or with me if we have to fall back from tlh-
hit but slightly slacking his girths to en- Blackwater, as we will if the Yankees mi.
lhe"tim to stand more at ease.         vance, as they seem likely to do up the soy?;
it   ( done, hue rem'rned to the house, and bank of the James River. But I may as well
ileithe tront steps, looked from the go in and see how the folks are, for 1 mnust lit
H  -A ii -'e4h one of the windows at a group back before daylight. Six or seven mtil's i
in thesittingroom. lIe saw with rather too near the Yankee pickets for my
i n-".  htintiit there Were no strani- safety I,"
a thmoum, and  o expressed himself in  W hen he said this, the Major very quietly
mib l unur1.                       opened the door and entered' the hallwhir li
T a:   x -.3 a m:m  dressed as wealthy ule to the sittinig-roomi. That- he also censri-
±1 ;-. u;uali e are in that region, whost without knocking, or giving any premonitory,
n iti eair i unit vi inked face betokened his sign of his presence. The family were itr-i"
:dvmnta -Iat. An elderly matron who sat moment almost dumb with surprise, but jay
i-ar him, cx identilly wa his witf, and from  in an instant sat resplendent on every I o
mlimity fci t atiurc, a ine-looking lady but one in that room ; and the sister, wthi a
ml t \win -  or perhaps twenty-two or three wild, glad cry, sprang to her feet and rudeh
i ar(of 1 cge-probably his daughter. sat read- into her brother's open  arms ; and t1b
tn   e ne ur iheim. in a corner of the room, father and mother hastened to press ht;u ,.
e wing by a separate light at a small table, by the hand, and to greet him as a son who
at a  ung girl whose'features were much absence had been felt and mourned.
like uloue of thie young lady just spoken of-  When this was done, the Major turned ti
tdia'e-al and heautiful in the extreme. Uut look for and to speak to Elise, the octorin,
~ih c blest of the young ladies was a blonde; who, as the favorite servant and maid toi t)
tie otler, who did not look to be over six- sister, generally sat in the room with th
-u-mn, a clear ani brilliant brunette. The amitnily. But she had left the room. An il
hair of the first was a sunny brown, almost had he seen the look of loathing which (ntl-'
-:t en in the highit of the astral lamp near upon her face when he entered, anid ii
ie-t i-ie v as :u emd.             haste with which she rose and left wlht a i
The hair, oni silken lashes, and delicate came in, lie might have thought that il
Su -brews of the other were as dark as night, presence was, to say the least, repugnanaut
uiul glossy, too, as the hue of a young raven's her.-
wing. 'ihie hair, slightly inclined to curl,  "Where has Elise gone, I wonder:" h"
was wound about her splendidly-shaped hdad asked, when he noted her absence.
like a Orceian coift She wore no ornaments  "'To her room, I suppose I" said 1)-ti'
like the other lady, her dress was much more carelessly.- "it is later than her usual bed
plain; but her startling beauty needed neither time, but she has been doing some sewing fay

LIFE IN TIH
me which kept her up. I have no need of
her services in my room at night, though she
always dresses me in the morning."
"1 a afraid, if you and our folks intend to
remain here on the old place much longer,
that you'll have to do without her services
and ihat of nl the rest of the niggers that are
woith anything !" said the Major.
" Why so? io without Elise 'No, brother.
I could not do that-she is as necessary to
me as my food. I couldn't dress myself de-
c'ently without her aid. She always does up
my hair and makes my dresses ; and though
her mother is very handy at washing and
ironing, and better as a house-servant than
any woman in the county, she never was
half so smart or handy as my Elise. Oh no ;
I can never part with her !"
" But we expect that the Yankees will
move up this way in force soon ; and if they
do, and we have to fall back to our fortified
lines, then what will become of Elise and the
rest of the hands ?"
"Why, brother, the Yankees have been
here, pass here on scouts every day or two;
and as we profess to be neutral, they never
interfere with us !"
"Because they have not done so yet, is no
sign that they never will. They have taken
nggers and freed them wherever they've
taken possession ; and it is not likely they'd
leave a girl that is as pretty as Elise long un-
noticed, especially if they find out that she is
a slave! Our Commanding General told me
she other day that if he saw any sure signs
that the enemy meant to advance in force, he
should sweep the country of niggers and
horses before he fell back. I think that you'd
better all go to Richmond. You can at least
save our slave-property, and be free from the
annoyance of Yankee intrusion. For they'll
never see Richmond as conquerors while old
Bob Lee is alive!"
"I cannot leave this plantation, and my
till and barns, and this house and all its fur-
niture !" said the elder Mr. Barrett. "If I
left the house and place alone, it would be
desolated and burned in less than a week.
But while I am here, and profess to be strictly
neutral, they will touch nothing of mine.
They have not meddled with my negroes so
Sar, and I do not believe they ever will!"
"If they don't, your niggers will hear all
too soon that they will get their freedom, and,
be paid for work, if they go to the Yankees.
And then you know you can't keep them !"
"Well, it may be so, my son-it may be
so. if I thought it would, I would send all
the valuable hands further South right
away!"
"I would, father, if I were in your place.
But Ill tell you more in the morning, for I
mean to hide away with you for two or three,

E SADDLE.                             7
days to rest myself. I did think of returning
to-night, but I have a three-days' leave from
camp, and I think I'll stay it out. My horse
stands saddled and bridled in the stable. I
think I'll take off his trappings and hide
them, and then turn him out to forage in the
back lot, where he'll not be noticed. Atter
that I turn him in, for I am about half-worn
out !"
Very well, my boy. We will take good
care of you. You had better take the little
room inside of your sister's bedroom, for no
Yankee officer would be so ungallant as to
go through her room to search for you--at
least such Yankees as I have met so far;
would not!"
"Very well, father. I'll put out my horse,
and then retire !"
"Why don't you let me call one of the nig-
gers to do it for you ?"
"Because, father, the infernal blacks are so
careless that I dare not trust them with the
knowledge that I am here. It must be kept
from them, especially from the common
hands! They are always gabbing to stran-
gers!
"Well, I suppose it will be best. I wish
the infernal war was over. I was clearing a
good five thousand a year before it broke out,
and now I can't pay expenses. And there's
Doctor Glover, my first cousin, down at Cedar,
Point, almost ruined by it. Seventy of his
niggers have gone into Norfolk to the Yan-
kees ; and his pretty daughter Annie, that you
used to think so much of, has actually had to
do the housework for her father. 'I he poor
old man is near crazy with grief at his
losses 1'
"No wonder. We used to take such a
pride in his place. But he half deserves it ;
for I remember, if you don't, that lie voted
against secession when the Old Dominion
went out of the Union."
"So would I have done then, it it hadn't
been for you military hot-heads.. I told you
then that the war would desolate our State
and ruin us all ; but you laughed at me, and
said that the Yankees would never, ight or
dare to cross Mason and Dixon's line. But
you see they have. And we are getting
weaker every day ; our money isn't worth
anything, provisions are getting scarce, and
there is no end to their money or to the men
they can call into the field !"
"Just wait till England and France recog-
nize us, father. Then they will put in an
armed interference, and the poor Yanks will
be nowhere !"
"Yes, when England and France do reco-
nize us. But neithb you nor I, my son, will
live to see that day. But go and put out
your horse, for I see you are tired and need
rest!'

e

i

.


8                           LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
The Major Faid no more, but a flush of im- to eat, and good houses to live in. And then
patience wavs on his face when he went out.  he said, little thinking that I heard him, that
he was afraid his niggers would find it out,
CHAPTER III.                and all leave him too!"
When Elise, the octoroon, left the family  " De Lord, child ! Is you sure 'bout that ?"
sitting-room, she did not ;co to her chamber  "Yes, mother. And'I've heard it before
us Mis Barret had supposed she would. She fronm other sources !"
went directly to a room which adjoined the  "'Well, I do believe that the year of jubilek
kitchen, in which an elderly woman sat, who is coming! I hope it is, for I'c like to bemy
was but a little darker than herself; though own woman just for a little while before I
her hair having more curl, and her features 'lied. And I'd agree to die in two hours to
a little more flatness, betrayed more evidently ge you free and'your own lady. For yo'are
hIr Ethiopian descent. The woman, who just as good, and as handsome too. as any
looked to be about forty, had evidently been lady that ever walked in prunella."
very handsome, for one of her class, in her  " I wish that I was not handsome, mother,"
younger days ; but hard labor, and perhaps sail Elise, with a sigh. " Beauty is a curse
-trief, had left marks upon her which could to any one in my position. I wish that I had
not be effaced, and it was evident that all of died long ago, dear mother.  I somniuet
the beauty which had been left to her was think that I will kill myself."
fast fading away. But at a glance her rela-  "Child, child, don't you talk so! Youl11
lionship to the lovely young girl, who entered scare the life out of me."
the room, could be seen.                   " But, mother, I am so wretched. - I wish
" What is the matter, child ?" she asked, Miss Delia had never taught me to read and
when Elise cane in. " You're all of a trem- write. I often read things which make ute
ble ! You look as if you'd done seen a very unhappy.    Read of a pure and hUy
ghost !"                                love which never can he mine--never. for [
"I wish it had been a ghost intead of' him  am hut a svtye. And who but a slave c:Inh
alive, mother, that I had seen !" said the girl, wed a slave  "
with a shudder.                           "When the year of jubilee comes, eiil.
"Hiim! whom do you mean. child ?"     you'll be free-yes, free as thes birds ti.t IIy
"'Why the Major, Master Bill. 1l has just toward heaven!"
tome home! And I suppose he'll be acing   " Ah me, mother. I fear that the yea r (f
to me as lie tried to before lie went away. jubilee will never como  for your ph:
when lie made me hate him so that I could Elise !"
have killed him. If lie ever tries to kiss me  "Yes it will, child-yes it will. I fe1 0lf
again, I will kill him : see if I don't !"  my bones, that I do. This war is to Ibr'' 3  o
And her great black oyes flashed with an along, I know it is. ,The Yankees )rite rie'0a
angry fire, that told full well that she wias in doma with 'em 'wherever they conae !
:arnest and meant ill she said.          done heard that from folks tit kt now !
" Child, child, you mus'n't talk so. If they about it. You'll be free, child, and be h appu
was to hear you, they'd go and sell you off and your old mother will live to see it."
south ; and 'twould break my heart to lose  "Ah,nmother, 'tis but a dream of y s
you, YoU know it would !"               see nothing but darkness before me :  A
"Well, lie has no business in making love Master Bill-you know not how t fear hn.
to me. Let him go to his white ladies. He I know his nature. his eyes seem to ted1
can't marry me, you know !"              upon me when he looks at roe, and th'eha
In course not. Cause you belong to his dared things already, which terrify et even
father, who is your father, too, and he knows to think of. But, mother, I will remaiin iure
It. Why, you're his half sister, child. If you -or I will die!"
was free, lie wouldn't dare to marry you t"  "The good Lord hlp you. poor chili!
" I know that, mother. And I hate him, Nobody e;e can or will, for we can't he p
for he means me no ood. I wish the Yan- ourselves ! I know that from the time w le"
kces would come and take us both off, so I I was yontmgr than you, and almost i alute;
do''                                   soe !"
" Child, child, you 'stoniah me! Mater  " Mother, may 1 not stay and sleep tere
'ays they'd sell us away off in Cuba if theyI with you while ho is here Y" asketf ir
got us?'I tearfully. -.I'm afraid to stay alone in y
"Yes, mother, he sayJ s so to frighten us. room when he is in the house t"
But I heard him say that all of Doelor   " Yin, you can stay here. my echi. lie
Glover's hands--men, women, andchildren-- won't dare to come here to work you harmt.
had gone ofF to Norfolk, and got free, and He won't stay about lon'tither, for the Yan-
were working among the Yankees for good key'Army is too close to uN. They'd pooni
pay and had nice clothes to wear, andipwnty have him ii' thty knew he'wtt here ; and if hn,


Ii
tI

IE SADDLE.

11

LIFE IN THe
offers to do you hurt, they shall know it.
You just feel easy, child. Your old mother
would die for you! Don't fret any more-
l'll watch over you like an eagle over its
nest !"
"'Thank you, dear mother. I will'trust in
von and the good God that I read of in my
Ibble. When 1 said I was sorry Miss Delia
had taught inc to read, I was very wrong; for
when I'real in that good 3ook, I find some
comfort. There is a star in the east, and from
it cometh light to those who seek and deserve
it!"
*That's true, child ! Now get ready for
bed, for it is getting late !"
CHAPTER     IV,
The night passed away without any cause
of disLurbance or alarm to the Federal scouts
in their well-concealed bivouac. An hour or
two before daylight, the Sergeant in command
quietly aroused his men and bade them feed
their horses and get their own breakfasts, so
as Lo ho ready for a start at the very dawn of
day.
Quickly the ration of oats was given to
each horse in his nose-bag, and then the men
ha ened to cook their own coffee and meat.
They had enjoyed something which they sel-
dora got-an uninterrupted night's rest ; and
now woke with good appetites for another
t hin; which they did not always have-a hot
 and a plentiful breakfast.
Thn broiling of fowls and meat before the
iLrL' and hot lire, and the boiling of the cof-
fe-ration did not take them a great while,
nr did their meal occupy quite as much
time as a gourmand would waste over a din-
ncr at Deinonico's. In less than half an
her, the "nmatutinal meal" was properly at
tended to, and then the horses were biidled
and saddle-girths tightened, ready for a start.
A canteen of hot coffee and a ration of meat
and riead were prepared for the two men who
stool guard on the outpost; and then the
party mounted and rode quietly out to the
rot, leading out the horses of the two men
staieOned there.
It re the party halted while the guards ate
th a breakiast and answered the questions
wlieh Cliflord had to ask. The man who
h ode by on the previous evening had not
r"t.rned, nor had anyone else gone by.
Citl'ord carefully examined the tracks
tea e by the horse of the man who had pass-
ci m the night.
 te can easily be followed," he said, after
h1' had looked along the track for a few rods.
'T'he horse had large feet and Was only shod
i'he fore-feet !" he added.
Il° then called the two young men whom
w e  iiily described in the first chapter-
Uruce anA Dolan-to hi:- side, and said .

"Boys, I am going to send you on detached
and important duty. You arc well fitted for
it ; for you, Bruce, have the impetuosity of a
whirlwind, while Dolan is as cold as marble
and all as firm. I want you to follow the
tracks of the horseman who passed la;st night
-you can see them very plainly. If it is
possible to overtake him outside of the Rebel
lines, po it, and carry hin to our head-quar-
ters. Lake him dead or alive, if you can do
it without too great risk to yourselves. I ex-
pect, if nothing happens to us, to reach camp
with the rest of the boys by sunset or a little
after. I hope to find you there., I know you
well enough to feel assured that I shall not
hear of you retreating from less than a half-
dozen Rebs, and that they will never carry
you to Richmond as prisoners while you have
a cartridge left, or an arm strong enough to
raise a sabre ! Good-bye, and God bless you!."
"Thanks I" cried both of the young men
as they vaulted into their saddles. "We
will deserve your good opinion, Sergeant.
The name of the Rides shall never suffer
through our misconduct !"
Ant then, with their eyes on the well-
defined track and their spurs to their horses'
hinks, they bounded out of sight in a mo-
ment.
"Now, men, look to your arms ; by twos
to, the right-march! Within twenty min-
utes we shall see the pickets at Blackwater
Bridge. One volley will scatter them as we
dash for the Zuni Road ; and if they're not
fools enough to follow us, well have little to
do but to keep an easy pace. with our horses
until we take a look at Zuni. Thbre, we
inay have some work if they get any haint
from signals, as they have done before, that
we are coming ! Keep your horses in hand,
and be ready for a rush-we've got to go by
the bridge-pickets in a hurry, for we'll be in
range of their ritle-pits for near two hundred
yards! Steady now, and look sharp I"
Without a word, hooking up their sabres so
that their clanging could not be heard, with
unslung carbines in their right hands, the
gallant scouts now moved on in a compact
cohimn of twos ; the Sergeant, as usual with
him, taking the advance.
The morning was clear, and a gentle breeze
stirred the leafy branches on either side of
them, and gave fresh vigor both to man and
beast. For a mile and a half they rode on in
silence, keeping the direct road toward Black-
water Bridge. Then they descended into a
small ravine, through which ran a clear
stream of water not more; than six or eight
inches in depth. Beyond this stream the
road led abruptly over a steep bluff, the
banks of which on either side of the road
were too steep to be passable for man or
Least.

I


'I

12                          LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
" What a magnificent place to plant a bat-  "None of you hurt, thank Icaron !"he
tery in the road there !" said Clifford, in a said, as tie inspected his party, while ti
low tone. "If the 'Rebs' had that point rode more leisurely along. "I hardly th in
guarded with a couple of guns and a single the Rebels got otf so easy, for they  ere w
company of infantry, no brigade of ours grouped we could not miis them all !
could farce the position ; for both the rear  " No ; I saw full a halfido/.cn down when
and the flanks of the bluff are secured, as I I fired !" said the rearniust moan of the p;rw.'
know, by an impassable swamp. Were our " They owe me a new l2a, Sergeant-thmev've
Army to advance, the ' Rebs' never would put two ballholes through the crown of this
fail to guard this point. Halt, men, and one !"
water your horses here. We are within a    "Only ventilhte:1 it, Potter !' sail the
quarter of a mile of their picket-post; and Sergeant, with a laugh. "I hope we'll have
when we rise the hill yonder, we have got to as good luck in pamiug Zmi ! By thunder,
ride as if the devil was after us ! Remember they're firing signal-guns at the Bridge.
-one flying volley as we go by-take the I'll bet a new lit agiainst your ol l one, that
right when you see Inc turn, and don't stop to they're giving the Zuni frceo inf omatiot
look back. It' aiy of you should get hit, that we are on tiiis roa:l, and thmeil cross
which is not likely if we go fast and take over there to try to bag us. We mu'ut push
them by surprise, you must cling to your on, boys; for the sooner we ps that cursed
horses till we get well out of their way, and hole the better for us. if they run their rail-
then I'll attend to you as well as I can. Now  road-battery down from Ivor. we wilt be
forward at a trot; watch my hand, and when sure to get shelled when we cro the ral-
I draw my pistol push forward at a run, with- road, even if they have no flrce over to in-
out breaking ranks, and fire low when you ttercept us !"
see the enemy !"                           " suppose they do have a force in the
There was no reply, but Sergeant Clifford . road, what then' " asked one of the mni- .
knew that his orders had been heard, and   "We must cut our way tluough it   re-
would be obeyed to the letter.           plied the Sergeant, quietly. " You know
On at a steely trot over the hill--on for a that it is all swamp on the right of the rol.
hundred yards or more through a grove of and no way for us to get through it. If they
tall pines over a sandy track, and then plain- do try to stop us, we must use the steel in
ly ahead, and close at hand, could be seen our hands and that at our heels too. 'T'he
the Rebel nuard at their picket-station; and best swordsman and the boldest rider will
beyond tliem  still more Rebels, grouped have the best chance.  Forward steadily,
about their rifle-pits on the opposite bank of boys ; we may be in a bad scrape, but I (doubt
the rivar.                               if it be worse than some we have cut our way
A wild, startling cheer broke from the lips out of!"
of the scouts, and'they dashed on as if in full  The men had reloaded their carines as
charge upon the pickets of the enemy.    they rode on, and now  moved ft ward -
A moment more, and when they were ready for more work if it offered.
within a hundred yards of the gray-coated
soldiery, time Sergeant raised his pistol and,        CIIAPTER V.
firing a shot into the group, suddenly turned  It was an unusually early hour for her
his horse, at a sharp angle, into a road which young mistress to arise, when Eli-e h+:arl
led to the right, in a northerly course ; and the silver bell tinkle in the room of Mis
with lightning-speed his men followed, each Delia Barrett, and knew thereby that the
firing as lie made the turn.             young lady wished her aid in dres-sing. It
Time astouikimed Rebels fired a feeble and was not more than seven o'clock ; and very
scattering volley, but the scouts swept away seldom indeed did time languid daughter Of
out of sight like clouds in a squall, not a man the Sunny South leave her bed helbre eioimt
of them touehed,                         or mimte o'clock, often iot until ten. Not
On-on at the highest rate of speed which because, as city belles do, she hind tiuned
his horses could stand. lhie Sergeant led night into day, by late or rather earl' leary
his men for the next five miles, and then he at balls, operas, etc., but because she' ;euer-
drew  rein and gave his horses time to ally read novels until long after mmi 1' -hin,
breathe. For lie had reached a deep and until she slept from very weariness of tra
swift creek, whose marshy banks would not and eyesight. But on this occasion she h I
allow of its being either swam or forded, and not touched her novels-the excitement of
which, having crossed on the only bridge it her brother's return from the Army ha i
had, lie made a means of securing hinmselt kept hey mind busy while awake, aulkeu-t
from inmmediate pursuit, by throwing time her dreaming while asleep. And whr.n "he
planks off time bridge and otherwise render- woke from  a startling dream, in which she
lug it iumpa able for others who might follow. fancied him a prisoner in Federal hande she

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.                               13
found the sun shining in at her chamber- and hurriedly followed Elise from tlhe room.
window, and feeling anxious to see more of When he reached his sister's apartment, by
Y      her brother, he rung to be dressed at tha  the direction of the girl, he sprung into the
unusually early hour.                   middle of the great downy bed, and in an
f Elise, dressed plainly, but as neatly as instant the tumbled covering was drawn
possible, came in a moment after the bell over him, with apparent carelessness, but in
ium; .                                  such a manner as to show no signs of his
I)id you wish rue, Miss Delia ?" she said, being there.
inI li r lOw, musical tone.               Then Elise, who knew that no time was to
-- Ye, Eisewant to dress. I have passed be lost, raised her young mistress ito her
night long. And such dreams-1 never wish long hair about her shoulders, seized a bottle
to dream again !"                       of cologne and bathed her temples, applying
Etise made no reply, but hastened to pour the pungent spirit plentifully also to he- lips
out water in the bowl of white China, and and nostrils.
placing it and towels and perfumed soap on  The effect was almost instantaneous. She
on a small dressing-table to which a stand- opened her eyes, recovered her senses, and,
ing looking-glass was affixed, she moved it looking wildly around her, asked in a
up to the bedside, wjiere her mistress was whisper:
,.       tting                                    "Where is my brother  have they cap-
:        It is not for me, who really know nothing tured himY"
rf such things, to describe the mysteries of  " No, Miss Delia ; and if you are brave and
the young lady's toilet, or the skillful mn- calm they will not. Ie is hidden there'"-
istradons of her handmaid-let it suffice, and she pointed with her hand to the spot--
that, at the end of a half-hour or a little "beneath the covering of your bed. Let me
more time perhaps, the young lady was coin- partially disarrange your dress. -lThen 1 will
pletely dressed and ready to descend into the be busy at your hair, and they will not come
tamily-room, where Major Barrett was en- in here if they are gentlemen, even if they
tertaining his father and mother with a should search the house !"
history of his various exploits in the Rebel  "Gentlemen ! You speak as if a.Yankee
service,                                 could be a gentleman !" said the Southern
Miss Delia had just cast a glance of smile lady, ii a tone of bitter sarcasm. "But you
iag satisteetion at the reflection of her really have concealed him  well, Elise--I would
superb figure in the glass before her, and never think he could be so completely hid-
Ehse was about opening the window to air den in that bed. I will play my part well if
the room, when, with a cry of terror, she the vandals should dare to come to this
' Pointed down the lane which led from the room, and I will die before they shall have
main rowl to the house. Two mounted men, him !"
in the well-kuown uniform of Federal Cay-  "Then be calm, Miss Delia, while I am
dry, were riding at full speed toward the engaged on your hair. I hear your father
house.                                  talking to the men below, and from his tone
O 0God, my brother!   My dream-my I think that they are insisting upon a search
dream-he will be captured and perhaps of the house. You look too pale and ner-
killed ! Elise, save him-save him!"  ,vous, will you not let me pour out a glass of
And the lady sunk fainting to the floor,  wine for you? t"
Elise did not pause to assist her lady then;  "No, Elise-dash  some  more of that
hut, bounding from the chamber, was in a strong cologne over my face and head.
m'w seconds in the family-room.         That will bring back the color. I will be
"Two Yankee soldiers are almost at the calm in a moment ; and if they dare to come
door !" she cried.  "if the Major does not here, anger will flush my face enough. Oh,
I     hide quickly, he will be captured !"   I hate thoso (ankees with such a deadly
Hide where? If they are on my track I hatred, that I could poison myself if the
aa lost !" cried the Major, so alarmed that same draught would kill them all!
il presence of mind seemed to have left him.  "Why, Miss Delia? Did they ever do you
, nuMiss Delia's bed.  They will not any harm?"
think of looking there, if they are gentle-  "Me-me? No; for I never associated
men, and she has just got up. I can pretend with such scum. I am a Virginian girl--
to be dressing her, and they will not disturb heart, soul, and body ! But they are trying
a lady so engaged !"                    to destroy our Southern rights, take our
(ro-go my son. Elise is right ! Quick, slaves from us, make us beggars !
my boy! I will throw them off the scent!"  "What do they do with the slaves, Mis-
sud Mr. Barrett.                        tress?" asked Elise, still in ii quiet tone, as it'
The Major required no further persuasion  she hardly noted what she was saying.

I

"

i.

f
°


p

14                          LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
" Set them free, to be sure ? Make them' a great mistake. There is not a person be-
their equals, they say ! Oh, it is enough to I sides my own family and servants in this
make a saint swear, to think of it I But we'll ! house, I assure you. I am willing to take my
soon whip the cowards back to their ice- oath upon the Bible that there is not. You
bound homes. They will not long be may not be aware that I am strictly neutral
allowed to pollute the sacred soil of Virginia. in this war, and that I am on very friendly
1f I had my way, not one of them should terms with your commanding officer, General
even be buried in it. I would burn their Peck. Your own Colonel has done inc the
carcases and let them  evaporate on the honor to call and drink wine with me, Sir;
breath of the hurricane. Oh if I was only a and it would be entirely out of the question
man, I would help to drive the ruffians back to think that I would break my pledge of
to their dens, or crush them forever. One neutrality 1"
Southern man is more than a match for a   " Do you mean to say, Sir, that a man riding
dozen of the puny wretches !"           on a white horse,.and coming from the Rebel
"Then had 1 not better uncover your lines on the Blackwater, did not come to
brother, Miss Delia, and let him go and kill your house last night ?" asked Bruce, impetu-
them two Yankees who are making so much ously. "If you do say so, I shall have to be
noise down stairs. If lie is a match for a under the disagreeable necessity of telling you
dozen, two will give him no trouble what- that you utter a falsehood. And if you feel
ever !"                                 in the least aggrieved by the terms I use, I will
And Elise started as if she intended to render you any personal satisfaction that you
withdraw  the covering  from  the Rebel may require, after we have unkenneled the
Major.                                  man we are looking for. I always hold my-
"Girl-girl! Stir not on your life ! Are self responsible for any language that I use !"
vou mad? 1)o you think lie would disgrace  "I have no quarrel with you, Sir, and wish
himself-he a coniunissioned officer in the none. I have assured you, and I now reiter-
Confederate service-by having a combat ate it, that there is no stranger, and iota per-
with two miserable priate Yankee soldiers? son beside my own family in the house, ex-
His sword is kept for better blood ! No-no ; cepting only yourselves !"
let him remain hidden. The wretches shall  "  seems to me, Sir, that I have heard be-
seek for him in vain. All they want, I ex- to l hen passing your house, that you had
pect, is plutner.  Take and lock dp my a son in the Confederate Army. Perhaps
wardrobe and my jewelry-case. Be quick, you speak the truth when you say that there
for I hear them coming up stairs 1"    is no one in the house not belonging to your
family, and yet your Rebel son may be, and
ChIAP    ITER I.most likely is, here !' said Dolan, his eye
seeming to read the very heart of the old be-
The Rebel Major had barely ascended to cessionist.
the chamber of his sister, when his hither  There was a momentary pallor on the face
heard the heavy knock of the Federal soldiers of Mr. Barrett, which told that the arrow shot
at his door.                            at random had struck home. Dolan observed
Going to the door, lie opened it; and, with it, and added:
a well-affected look of surprise, asked the sol-  "We do not wish to be rude or unnecesa.
diers what they wished.                 rily troublesome. If your sont will surrender
"We wish to see the man who came here himself peaceably, we will with all kindness
from the Blackwater last night !" said one of conduct him as a prisoner of war to our head-
the men. 'We are scouts from the New    quarters, where he can soon be exchanged for
York Mounted titles, and men who don't sonic of our men in Confederate hands!"
bear much triling. My name is Bruce, and  "And if' lie don't surrender, and oiers re-
my friend's name is Dolan !"            sistance, lie 11 get an ounce conical ball
"Gentlemen, I will be glad to do anything through his carcass !" said Bruce, touching
for you that I can. I have heard your regi- the ritle which he held in his hand.
ment highly spoken of. Its members are said  "I tell you I know nothing about my son !".
to be gentlemen, and I shall always treat said Mr. Barrett, in a dogged, sullen tone.
them as such. If you will come in I will "And if you do annoy my family, 1 will re-
have some breakfast got for you !" said Mr. port your conduct to my particular friend,
Barrett, smoothly.                      your Commanding-General
"Thank you, old gentleman, but we break-  "Report to the devil, or his friend, old Jets
fasted long ago. We only want aim introduc- Davis, for all we care !" said Bruce, angrily.
Lion to the person whose track we have fol- "We know you ve got a Rebel stowed away
lowed from the Rebel lines to this house !" in your old crib here, and it we find him it
said Dolan, in his usual quiet but firm tone. will be the worse for you. Dolan, if you'll
" Really, Sir, you must be laboring under stay here and guard the old main, and look out

f

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.                                15
for any attempt to escape by the front door, Miss Barrett, who had heard every word that
I'11 search the house froms top to bottom." had been spoken.
"Very well, George," said Dolan. "I'll   "I would not go down at all," said Eliso,
ust take the old gentleman out to the front- quietly. "He seems to be very much of a
stoop, where I can guard our horses, as well gentleman ; let nie finish dressing you, then
as keep-an eye on him. If you hear the crack throw a shawl on, and pretend to be nervous
of my revolver, you may know you're wanted and ill, and let himsearch the room while
out here."                          .     ou are here. lHe will not search so strictly,
"'And if you hear the crack of mine inside,  amsure, when we are both here ; for lie is
you may know that you're not wanted there ; very courteous in his manners, and would be
tor I never miss anything I draw a bead on," handsome if it were not for a terrible scar on
saidi Bruce, with a laugh.               his cheek. I suppose the poor follow got it
And then bidding Mrs. Barrett to remain in battle."
seated while he searched, he began a system- "Poor fellow I Elise, on my word, I be-
stic search of every room, beginning on the hieve you feel a sympathy for these cursed
first floor.                             Yankees! I wish the cut had been on his
Of course, lie found nothing thiere,gso matter throat, instead of his cheek !
how keenly lie searched. He next ascended  "No matter how I feel now, Miss-Delia-I
e to the second story, the heruse being but two- want to save your brother if I can !" said
stored.           .     .     Elise, as a flush of pain darkened her cheek.
When he went into the second story, he   "I know it, Elise-I spoke too harshly.
found the first room that he came to closed. Had I not better throw myself on the front of
Upon attempting to open it, he discovered that the bed, as if I felt really unwell ?"
it was fastened inside.                    "No, Miss Delia, that might lead him to
Having his pistol drawn, he did not hesitate think you had lain down purposely to con-
to knock and demand immediate admittance, ceal some one in the bed. If you sit near it,
t ir he felt almost certain that that room con- it will be enough. And if he asks who sleeps
tained the object of his search.        in the inner room, tell him it was me ; for
The door opened, and he started suddenly your brother's bed is just as he left it. I hate
back ; for instead of seeing, as he expected, a to tell a falsehood, but to save life I do not
man in Rebel uniform, with whom he might think it is very wrong.
instantly be engaged in a death-struggle, lie ,"A lie is as good as the truth for a Yankee !"
saw something infinitely more dangerous to said the young lady, bitterly. "If I htd a
his peace of mind; a young girl, more beau- pistol, I would shoot the wretch myself!"
tiful, he thought on the instant, than any one " He is armed, Miss Delia ; and I would
of her sex that he had ever seen. It was hate, even if he was not, to harm him. ie is
Elise, who, leaving her mistress with her a young man, and I am sure he spoke very
beautiful tresses spread over her shoulders, kindly ! Some rude men would have come
had come to the door to reply to the°sum- right into the room, in spite of our being here,
mons.                                    and been all the more rude when they found
"What do you wish, Sir ? This is my Ia- nothing but women to oppose them !
dy's room, and I am dressing her; please do  "I believe you're in love with the med-
not come in before she is dressed," said Elise, dung wretch-you speak so well of him!
in a gentle and pleading tone, looking be- Open the door, and let him come in ; 1 want
seechingly into his handsome face with her this terrible suspense over. My poor brother
dark and lustrous eyes.                 must be nearly smothered under that load of
"Of course not-but I am looking for a bed-clothing I"
man who is hidden somewhere in this house.  Elise made no reply, but went to the door
1 am too much of a gentleman to intrude and opened it. The cavalryman, who had
upon a lady at anmy time, especially when she finished his unavailing search of the other
S s engaged in tie sacred mysteries of her toi- roons, stood in the hallway, and, when she
while you are engaged. But please say to1 down.
the other lady that, as soon as she can do so, I  "Miss Delia is very nervous and unwell,
wish she would go down to the family sitting- Sir," said Elise, "and begs that you will hot
room; for it is my duty-I may add, my un- her stay in her own room, which you can
pleasant duty-to thoroughly search every come into and freely search."
room in this house."                       "I dislike to intrude upon her ; but if she
Bliss bowed, and closed the door, while prefers remaining, I suppose I must permit
Bruce continued his search in the other it. If you and she will give your sacred
rooms.                                  word of honor that there is no man concealed
" Oh, what shall we do ?If I go down, he in these apartments, I will not search further ;
.will surely tind nmy poor brother !" moaned 'for I have too high a respect for your sex to

I

t


16                          LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
believe that a lady will deliberately tell a  "Then remain here, until I examine the
fialschood to a gentleman who treats hcr with stable. The track of that horse entered this
honor and courtesy !' said Bruce, as he ad- lane, sure 1" said Dolan.
vanced into the room.                      And as Bruce bowed his assent, Dolan,
"You can search as much as you please, carefully examining tracks as he went, pro-
Sir. I am a daughter of the South, and ex- ceeded to the stalIes. Ile did not remain
pect no favors-tsk none from the enemies of long inside; but when he came out, he saw a
he 'onfederacy !" said Miss Barrett, haughti- track which cutWd him to go further on,
ly, appearing not to hear, at least not heeding down a narrow lane which led to some tield9
his iier to take their word that no one was nearly hidden troim the house by an orchard.
there.                                  lHe was gone some time, and Bruce began
I am not the enemy of a lady anywhere, to notice his absence with some impatience.
no matter to what section she belongs !" said But a smile lighted his face when he saw  .
U3ruce, bowing. " I repeat, that my duty is Dolan returning, leading a large and splen-  t
painful ; you could relieve me from it by a didly-shaped horse, of a snowy white, by a
word :'"                                 halter improvised from the sling of his car-
;"Do your duty, Sir ; I have no words for bine.
man who wear that uniform. Do your duty ;  " Here is the horse that we tracked from
and when it is performed, have the kindness the Blackwater this morning-no shoes on
t) leave me to myself and my sorrows-for I  his hind feet, but newly shod before !" ho
am ill !"                                cried, as he cane in front of the house.
" I regret to disturb you, lady ; but your - Perhaps Mr. Barrett can tell us how this
own refusal to say that there is no one here, horse, which has been in his stables, came to
forces me to do so.  Is there not another be in his field ; for I tracked it from the
xioom inside of this "                 lane to the stable, and from the stable to the
V  Yes, Sir ; a small room where my servant field, where I found it !
leeps. Go in and look at it."              " I know nothing about the horse,; it is not
Bruce opened the door of the inner room, mine, and I never saw it before in my life !'
and saw only a small bedroom, with only a stammered Mr. Barrett, in confusion.
Chair and table in it, and a bed, which had  "''lien we will confiscate it for regimental
evidently been recently slept in.  It was use. lie looks like a good one to go, and
Lighted by a single window, which enabled will suit me amazingly well," said Dolan.        o
hun to look over it and under the bed in an  Mr. Barrett could make no reply. He had      y
inuint.                                 denied all knowledge of the horse, and could  }
No one there !"lhe muttered, as he came not recall his words.y
oI, and cast a hasty but a careful glance  "it is a pity you could not find a saddle
around the room of the young lady.      for the horse, Dolan. You can see by that
lie saw nothing here to excite his closer slight gall on his back that it is but a very
scrutiny; and in a moment more he left the short time since one was there !" said Bruce.
room, apologizing for his intrusiou once   "I am going to have another look in the
more.                                    stables for one.  Perhaps I may find the
to this apology the haughty Southern lady rider yet among the piles of corn-fodder
dl  not condescend any reply ; and the young there !"
soldier lett, as much disgusted with her rude-  And lie again visited the stables.
nues as he was astonished and pleased with  It was but a few moments crc a shout from
the extreme beauty of Elise, whom he did his lips told of some new discovery.
hot yet comprehend in her true position. lie  "You had better remain quietly in your
undoubtedly thought her a waiting-maid- house, old gentleman, till we go away 1" said
her dress and language betokened that. But Bruce, as lie left Mr. Barrett and hastened to
ho did not dream that she was a slave. For see what his companion had discovered.
he had not suflicient experience in Southern  He met him at the stable-door, bringingout
blood to detect the least sign of African a splendid military saddle, bridle, and full
decent in her appearance. She was whiter horse-equipments, and a heavy cavalry-sabre
than one half of the sun-browned country. of the best English workmanship.
girls of his own native State, and a more  " Jumping Moses ! John, what a prize I"
beautiful creature he had never seen. cried Bruce, in astonishment.
f               -"Well, what luck ?" asked Dolan, when   "You'll think so when you see the silver-
Bruce rejoined him  on the stoop of the mounted revolvers in the holsters, with the
house, where Mr. Barrett stood, in a painful name of Major George Barretteengraved on
state of anxiety.                       'each of them !" said Dolan, gleefully.
"I can find nothing but women in the     " Major Barrett? 'Then it was the old
house-no sign of a man !" said Bruce, with cuss's son that we tracked here I"
look of disappointment.                  "Of course it was, and ho is hiding about


rpI

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
here somewhere now, without doubt. The find and tell him that, for alit
only thing is, to find where that somewhere ho was safe.
is!
"I'll tell you how we can trap him, John.          CIIAPTER V
We can seem to be delighted at our getting We loft Sergeant Clitifort
is horse -and arms, and to believe that he 0f scouts moving along
Ihasi got off, and give out that we are going with the Blackwater River,
Light back to camp, to report it. Thea we Zuni, where the Rebels wer
can ride oil' with our trophies in that direc a strong picket-station, guar
lion, but take a back-track through the nus of the only portion of
woods, and lie in wait on the main road tersburg &amp; Richiond Raili
beyond Windsor, to take him as lie tries to in order beyond Windsor;f
to                                                                                                                           up an   th llidg
get back to his lines. For bell not hang been tor
about here long, Ill warrant, alter we are intervening distance by the
gone !'                                 retreat from Norfolk after th
"Good ! I like the plan, Bruce. We must the Merrimac.
blow the old mni up like thunder, fur lying, And when we left them,
and tell him that we are going to go in to re- ing to signal-guns tired by th
i por t him, and hope we'll get orders to come the river, to let those furthe
out after him!"                          the Federals were out.
" Yes ; that will be the ticket for soup. And, therefore, the Sergea
I'll do the blowing up. I ean talk a heap disappointed when, upon ar
faster and rougher to nen than you can. where he could see thro
But I was sttumped when I was searching bushes itnto the scattering so
the house-completely taken lown, for the on the map as Zuni, and kno
first time in my life ! I met an angel up- where the railroad hal cro
stars!" the bridge had been burned
"An angel ?"                           was torn up-he saw that a b
" Yes, John11, a living angel in petticoats. amounting to at least a hunmd
French, I reckon ; some kind of a dressing- was already across the rive
maid to a tiger-cat of a daughter of the old to take a position to inhere
mans. A voice softer than Captain Gray's road, and that more were
flute-a form that Venus would have envied; boats.
lips like bursting rose-buds: hair like waving  Hie knew that there was n
dlarkness with moonlight glancing over it; by the read over which lie
(yes that looked at you, into you, and through and that not a moment was
you, all at once. I'd give my left arm, and only course, which was to d
hold the bridle in my teeth, if I could call through the enemy, before
her Mrs. Bruce !"                       in his road, or erect, as the
"What, a patriot-volunteer-a Mounted ricades to check a charge,
Riieo-talk oif wedding a Rebel wife ? Bruce, while they fired upon an adv
you've been drinking, I guess !"          " Slig your carbines, me
Nary drop, John ; on my honor. I've low tone. "Then draw sal
only bengzn-pnitxctn              eauty. haing to your wrists by y
As to her being Rebel, she neither talked nor while you use your pistols
looked like one. The Barrett girl was Se- come on them. Then up w
cesh all over, in looks and talk, but my angel cut your way through or go
spoke and looked as kindly at me as if she ing. It is our only chance
had never heard the word Yankee. But we our way, and we must go 0
are losing time, and I ache to give the old them. Remember all, the is
curse yonder a regular dressing-down." is our course, and the Court
When Mr. Barrett saw that the horse- who get through are to me
equipmnents and arms of his son had been and forward ! Not a word
found, he was completely silenced. Ie did them! Charge, boys I-Cha
not even reply to the " dressing-down" which Nothing is more magnified
Mr. Bruce gave him, in language more forci- a charge of cavalry who
ble than studied. And when they mounted horses are trained to perfecti
andl rode away, leading the captured horse flight of birds and all as swift
with them, he watched them until they were in air, on-on they specd wvi
out f sihtand then only a sigh of relief ity of a hurricane. W oc, wo
anme hmins lips..                     footmen in their way, with
'T'hiaink (Gd, they tdid not get my boy!" of bayonets has been formed.
be mnU.'iiurt J, an w,ent into the house to without a witherin; tire front

19
tle time at least,
II.
I and his party
a road parallel
on their way to
e known to have
ding the termi-
tie Norfolk, Pe-
oad which was
or the track had
es burned in the
Rebels in their
ie destruction of
hey were listen-
ie Rebels down
r up know that
at was not at all
riving at a point
ugh a fringe of
ttlement marked
wnu as the station
ssed the river--
when the road
body of infantry,
red if not more,
r, and preparing
apt them on the
coming over in
o retreat for him
had just ridden,
o be lout in his
ash on, over and
they could form
y often did, bar-
and cover them
ancing-party.
n !" lie said, in a
1res and let them
our sabre-knots,
at first when we
ith the steel and
down in the try-
for they are in
ver azd through
le of Wight road
house where all
et. Ready now,
till we are upon
rge !"
nt on earth than
o the men and
on. Steady as a
, blades glancing
th the impetuos-
e0 to the luckless
ut a solid square
And even that,
the inner ranks,


20

LIFE IN TIL

LIFE IN TIlE SADDLE.

can seldom bear up against the surge-like
rush of fearless horsemen.
In this case, the Rebel infantry had not
yet been formed ii the road, but had coin
up scattering from the bank of the river, jut
as they had landed froni the boats, evideiily
not expecting an enemy so soon. And, of
course, they w ere all unprepared for the wild
and dashig charge made so suddenly upon
them. A few of thtent fred a scattering aid
harmless volwy, and tried to gather- mto a
solid formation ; but mttamiy threw down their
guns, and ran like frightened sheep for the
river.
On swept the gallant scouts, firing their re-
volvers as they came, ever swer1 ing fros
their course ; on, ito, and over the few who
offered to ri--c-t, and last the rest, down the
road, and off tio the woody shelter of the
road bevend the station, im less time than I
have taken to record the net.
On for five or six miles without drawing
rein, anh thens the Sergeant checke I his speed
to see it' nv men hat been hurt by the scat-
tering fire of' the enemy.
Two horses grazed and one man slightly
hurt with a ball which cut half its depth
through the tieshty side of his thigh (a wound
whiehle had already staunched with his
handkerchief) was all the damage the enemy
had done.
"By Jove, boys, flint rus h was glorious
said the Sergeant, as lie raised his canteen to
his thirsty lips. -" We must have knocked
over at least a dozen of them, if not more. I
reckon they'll curse the Mounted Rifles more
than ever, for this; day's work. I don't think
we'll have any more trouble before we get to
catl ; for I saw no cavalry on the other side
of the rni (er when ne passed, and three hours
more w ill find us inside of our own picket-
line
CIIAPTER VIII.
Where is your brot her, )elia ?" asked
Mr. Iarrett at the door of her clamnber, five
minutes after the two cavalrymen had ridden
out of sight.
IIytie Ithos' horrible Yankees gone ?" she
asked, without re i ling to his question.
" Yes, thank hleaven !lBut they have
found and carried off his horse and till his
tral pigs, and his weapomis also
W hat! My sabre nd pistols, with my
na.me and rank engraved upon them ?" cried
dhe Major himself, leaping from beneath the
bedclothes in a ludicrous state of sweaty dis-
order.
"Yes; and in two or three hours they wilf
be reported and probably delivered at the
Yankee head-quarters. I expect 1 am or will
be in a scrape with the General for it, for lie
has all along thought me a pattern of' nou-,

t'ality, and I have even lcd the old fool to  "I am afraid that I cannot prevent it.
traikthatf anthivn led w ther ol  fvo  When father concurs with my brother in
ftin that, if anythmg, I was rather in favor:anything, my opposition will be of little
of the Union !"                             avail !" replied the latter.
" At oce will be sent to capture I !''    "Then, if I must go, do not let me be sent
mtiutter~edl the Major. " I was a fool to risk  with him!" said Elise, with a shudder.
steying here all night. Iow did they come     a " Him? Do you mean my brother ?"
to suspect Iwas here?'                       "Yes, Miss Delia. I am- afraid of him!
"'They tracked you all the way from your   Please do not let me be sent away with
lines on the Blackwater, they said. The   him!"
beloiiged to the scouts of the New Yor-      The lady laughed scornfully, and eyed the
MUoUnted rifles !                           poor octoroon with a look of surprise.
" Mounted robbers, we call them! Curse        Afraid of a gentleman like my brother?
them ! they tire more trouble than any other  Why, you poor fool!, do you think he would
cavalry we have to do with-the best mount-  hurt ou "
ed and the best armed, and more regular       " Ol, lady, do not be angry with me, but 1
devils for fighting among them, too. Iut I  am afraid of' him. IIe talks and acts too
mustn't stay here to be taken. What horses  kindly to me to mean well by inc. I would
have you on hand fit to take me back to- the  rather lie would be harsh aiut cross. For I
line in a hurry with ?"            -        know what such kindness means. And so
I have Ito good saddle-horse, but I have did my poor miothter
that Northern trotting-pony, which I bought   " Girl, .I understand your insinuations!
before the war, and now  use in my light     You should only be too proud when a gentle-
pleasure-wagon !"                            man of his birth and education stoops to
" lie will have to do. And I can do what  notice one like you. But I think you tlat-
I thought of last night-save a part of your  ter yourself in this matter. If lie wishes to
property from  confiscation by the internal  take you with him, I shall not say a word
migger-stealers. I can take that girl, Ehise  against it now. You are getting above your
inside of our lines, and leave her where she  position "
will be safe until you find it necessary to ,1 And the haughty lady threw    a  light
come with the family and the rest of the    shawl over her shoulders, and left Elise
hands. And it will not be long before that  weeping in the chamber.
time occurs !"{
"I believe it would be a good plan ?" said             CHAPTER IX.
the elder Barrett.                            When the two scouts, Dolan and Bruce,
" O Miss Delia, do not let me be taken from  left the house of Mr. Barrett with the Major's
you !" said poor - Elise, turning pale and  horse and equi ments, they rode for a mite or
trembling in every limb, for she knew that fa little more clown the road toward Suffolk,
her own wishes would never be regarded.   ,at a swift- pace. Then coming to a small
"Who would dress me if I lost Elise ?"     rapid stream which crossed the road, the
asked Delia, in a bewildered tone.           turned up its bed and rode for about ha  f
" Why, her mother is as handy as she is.   a mile into the woods. Here they left the
any day. She used to be the only one your    white horse, concealing his saddle and the
mother would have around her ." said Mr.     equipment in another place, so fastening the
Barrett.                                     h oerse that ho could not get loose without
" Oh, she has got too old to be nice and  htumnan help.
neat, like Elise. I cannot do without Elise!"  T'hen taking a course directly through the
cried Delia.                                 Woods that would citable them to intersect the
You'd have to if the infernal Yankee;    main Blackwater road, in a dense grove,
took her from  you. Their scarecrow Presi- #  a mile and a halt' beyond the little place
dent has issued a proclamnation announcing   known as Windsor Depot, they rode as rapid-
hiat all slaves that are held by Southern peo-  ly as they could through the thick forest. It
pie who disavow alleg~iance to him are to be  was between two atd three hours afler,
tree from the first of January. Alt, did you  when they arrived at the spot where they in-
see the color brighten on that girl's cheek  tetided to lie in wait for the returning Major ;
when I said that? Go now she must ! and      and when they got to it; one of them hastened
the sooner the better. Have the horse aid  to examine tfhe tracks in the road, to see ifi
wagon ready, and do not let Inc be delayed   ant one had passed toward the Blackwater
long !"                                      since they had themselves come from  that
Amid as lie said this, the Major left the  direction.  The examination was highly-sat-
chamber with his father.                -    isfactory, for they saw that no person had
"Oh, mistress, do not let inc be taken away  passed on that road since it had been tracked
from you ' pleaded poor Elise, when left     by their own horses.
alone with Miss Barrett.

B SADDLE.                             21
"I feel as if we'd have that fellow !" said
Bruce, as he and Dolan took a seat near
where their horses were fastened, in a spot
where, concealed by some bushes, they could
look down the road for three or four hundred
yards. "He must have been concealed some-
where -about the house when we were there.
And he will not wish the chance of a force.
being sent out from head-quarters, after he
supposes we have reported. He may find the
Mounted Rifles too sharp for his Rebel wit,
yet!"
"I hope so, both for our own sakes and
Clifford's, too ; for the Sergeant takes a pride
in everything smart w edo. Hark ! I thought
1 heard the sound of wheels'!"
And Dolan, the speaker, laid his ear to the
ground to listen.
"Yes ! To horse, my boys !" he said in a
moment after. "Some one is coming up the
1oad in a wagon !"
Both of' the scouts. in an instant more were
in their saddles, and eagerly watching the
turn in the road where they would first see
who and what was coming.
It was scarce a minute before they saw
a horse, attached to a light wagon, coming
rapidly up the road.
A man in a gray uniform was driving the
horse, and a female was on the seat by his
side.
"Our game, by the great Original Jew
of Chatham street !" said Bruce, in a gleeful
whisper.
" What the devil has lie got a woman with
him for t" asked Dolan.
"May be lie thinks lie can get off easier
with one in tow.  She may go to the devil;
but he has got to 'o to Suffolk, and that is the
next place to old kick's quarters
But a few seconds elapsed before the wagon
was close to the spot where the cavalrymen
were in waiting, and then together they
spurred their steeds into the road.
Major Barrett saw his peril, and strove-to
lash his horse into a run.
But Dolan seized the horse by the bits, and
checking his own horse by a, word, stopped
it so suddenly that it reared back upon its
haunches. While Bruce, with his carbine
leveled at the Major's head, gave him his
choice of death or surrender, politely intimt-
ing that it was a matter of no difference
to him which the Major preferred, only the
choice must be made at once.
Of course, the Major did iot wish to die
just then, and he surrendered ; only remark-
ing, that it was devilish hard for a commis-
sioted officer and a gentleman to have to sur-
render to a common private.
Bruce now asked the Major what he wish-
ed to have done with the lady by his side,
whom he recognized in a moment as the

! 1 f

I1

it,
I
sV


N )(

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.

beauty that he had described to )olan, anal erty from a private !" said Dolan, drawing
who now salt, apparently speechless with and offering the Major his sabre.
terror, in the wagon.                      " I scorn you both too much to put myself
L ily !' sneered the Major. " That shows upon an equality with you !" said the Major,
whlit you Ynkees know about the South ndt refusing the proffered weapon. " I will report
ii rights. 'Ilhe girl is one of my fathers your treatment to your officers when I sea
S c  that I was carrying otf to our lines, to thmto .I
h 'p uCh nig:;er-taiers as your leaders are  " You had better then keep a civil tongue
fron getting lt !"                      in your head, or you'll lhve more to report
A slave : Sneak, yo1mg Ia ly. and tell the than you dream of!'' sail Bruce, indignantly.
ellow he le!  Why,.you're as white as lie "If the Confelerate service should lose such
a ; andi to tinr as good-looking as he or a hero as you are, the loss will be irreparable.
n of L   behi!;b1  a.ilI3. ue, very indig- I knew a fellow just like you, once, who tried
3"' -y.                                 to whin a Xankee school-ma'am, and cried
Alis le  1eaks the truth. I am but a becnIse he (otldn't (10 it
et ; it for your .t-ippi1g hinm (her, (Yo I  "he'lcr, Bruce, (lot banter the poor devil
01,1 knows what ily i'iture late would be. any mole.  T'lurn the wagon aroun 1. and
f -    (wa  rrvin II o't Ir-um the only friend we 11 Inak e the hest of our Way to Sutlflk.
I have im. the   w ild -mey  poor slav'-    e Can pilk tip the Major's horse and trans
m sair  s-d Eli-', in a lnOurbnil (0"te. as we go hack.'
Who wa xyour hilier :'' a-o  o )'1, in  An ti a few noiente more, the Major
i  al gui ttn-'. he ulelg 1b)en looking and his captorc al gateful Elise, were
i her Ii ts, nui i hlen at the tie o  ithe taking the back-track.
M.: joi, very attentively.              I
iMniothier tells me that bis tther is ilsi     CHAP1iiU X.
tn  ' said lse, with a bush that made  Mr. Barrett andt his wife and his haughty
her a hundred Itiiies more he:utitul.  dauhter were congratulating thieiselves a
S ttougt -u--ithe fent Irs t oldt miiO)' I' he coi(ple  ft hours matter tt (eparttre of the
71 nti -1.  ".tjor. you re a ncut curse, to son and )roihier, upon the tn hought that, by
et :our t-isir a :lvo .e'' hue'aihol. hitterly. that tinn, with the    ht-tinborne lie had taken,
1o natter who ter thtier was-s-lie is ie was probably in sathbty at or near the
fro a  - shve-mother, and is Iercli' a slave !' Rebel lines.
-1 i1 th inldignIan I'dhjor.             "I shall miss Elise. for a while, sadly
. Not if the (court kiiow, it-elf Major Gray- said Miss I)elia. "For sit was s) usied to
:-'1, an 1 1 1e- -i '  itdoes!" sal Bruce, my ways. I never had to tell iher to do any-
."1' -to-i- y. "".and yoy r oll dal are both thing. She always knew what I wanted, and
,1   ui-~, whitu-littred Sceesionists ; anti at tended to it without there being any ne-
P    'e.i ut Lol It ihas i ononced all slave  a-Ssity of my speaking ! But she was gettini-
Caim' bSy el e sionr sto bei forever free. above her business in some things. She u5ea
And, Vouing 1ly, voun may take the word of to read too much to suit me. 1 have often
(l   e t uen,. antd that is me, that you and regretted that I ever taught her to rea( !"
on motherLO as fice as air!-            " Slaves ought never to be allowed to read.
t5aatic :.sal the M-ajor, fo~rgetting:allIt makes them  think too much of them-
t)ru 'tnee in his inig-ner.              selves'!" said Mr. Barrett.
at''. L  inare than I'll take from any  "W hat carriage is that   I hear wheels
man, let alone a sioki-drie 1 Rebel !' ratthngi m the lane !" said Mrs. Barriet.t'
- oI iinLie', as ' leaned over from his horse,  Mr. Barrett rose hastily, itid loiokiled out
n ,truck the Mijor a blow on the cheek of the window.
ii tie tht ot his hand, which maIe him . A halt-suppressed curse broke from  his
( tin his se it.                       lips, and a look of anguisht and fear lopatd
('owarl  V11would not dare to do that over his taee.
I was nt. 'ou prisoner, and unarmed."'I " They've taken him! Them curted scouts
cried the M:ijr, livid with rageu.     have trapped him !' he (ried.  -
.. ioiim. hI-h i that braggi u etrse you  " Who 1My brother? ci'tltdl)elia.
ni  a  li t, yu t iitt of lie wx agan.  If  "Yes -he and the girl F1li.e nre the-s'
''IeTu ge  i  ea.on for ithat blow.wh tli he umner guard of the two inii iial Yankee
inte, 1ie im  have it. And if he kils l me. let soldiers who were here tlhi-; Ioriliig."
torm go free .' ered Bruce, dismioumntiiig trn  And the planter went to the door, olhlowe~d
ii mrse-                                 by his wife and daughter .
' It i - no: enietly according to regulations ;. - " So, Sir ; you see we ve tonal your excel-
)It' aswe hat', - no superior ollicer htere to it- lent son. Ite was lost, going the wrong way,
struet its, I guess it will be hir. IIere, Majioir, an1 we have taken the(' trotbile to showv him
take this tool. and see if you can win your lib- the right reI !" said Br'', with a 'mile.

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
"A thousand curses on you! ou will not 'rage-helpless rage.  When he saw    the
F keep thim long; for General Longstreet will t mother of Elise spring into the wagon with
bee shown this way soon, and then the whole her daughter, he bit his lips ins impatient
Sof your base-bor  scum will (iter have to anger, until the blood ran down on his white
thy four this State or be captives to one of beard.
tie first generals of the age" said Mr. Bar-  "Tlieves-thievesl" he cried.  "Oh! if
rett, bitterly.  a     curses would kill like lightning, I would
r   )on't you hope you'll live long enou-h blast you on the spot!
D to se  n that dty ?" dryly asked Doltn.    " Don't cling thet at us ! They're like
to Yes, I e oet  . snappihly retorted  thle poor guns-more dangerous in t'e recoil
plan~iter.                               than at the muzzle !" said l)olan, quietly.
'lten you may, if you live ten tlmes as  "Josephine, if you can, take the rains and
longl as 01k iethtusaleht, and don't get blind drive that horse. it would be beneath the
in looking for the day to comue.  But this dignity of the Major to drive, when h ohas a
-isnt bittcss. We want allotter p  'senger servantt in the waun !Tur around and
S in thsiwagons                         drive on-we will be close by your side, and
m'what do youn man'                        that you eu'-a safe iit Suil1 k am turkeys
Jtm ast what I sny, Sir.  'huis girl hulas a  ai ttaCo-hp.  God(l-)y(, ir. Utrrett ;.when
ohs               does not wish to letay vou come to town. t.o not fail to visit the
tueh iid, as ste is going to Mulfflk ; and the camp of the New  York  Mounted illes.
sooner vou send her out ire, the quicker We any call on you aginm shol)rtly. I shall
we will be oil'! We are expected in Suffolk tll Quarter-ntetr Lee that yout 0 got a
before night, and  cannot disapp)itt out' s'tine lot of corn in youth' eriba !
friends there l"
"rDo you hreat to steal niv nitges ?"            (IIAPTER XI.
"Wel steal you, yoU inernail old Rebel, if  It took the two scouts only about a couple
- von don't keel) a civil tongu in your head of hours to reach the Federal picket-lines
a ind burn that rotten crib of yours down be- after leaving the hoet:e of Mr. Ir3'r'ett, and a
tides. We've stood all the hard worse 'from  lfiht-iiour of that lim ' was ned i one of
your stock that we intend to stLol t} day. them having to go oi' the road to get the
'Just send out the woman Jose(pjlinO, this Mujor's horse and trappings. For while On
girl's mother, or one of'us will go in matter the road they made good time, well knowing
ier!,                                    that they were never saI from wandering
Is it me that is wanting !" said a very Rubel scouts until they were firly inside of
line-looking wom-um, scarcely a shade darker tli' own picket-lines.
_   than Mu's. Barrett herself, and evidently not  They proceeded more leisuire-ly along the
so old by several years,                  last part of the road. adler leaving the picket.
F       Yes - come ,   mother !"  cried  Elise. station, and it wa nicedr sunset when they
"These gentlemen are going to protect us, reached the draw-bridge on the Nanscmond,
R   and we will be fiee-re--thank Heaven !"  and crossing it cit-red the once-pretty village
it's a lie! 'They dare not take you! of Suffolk.
e   Their General is my friend, and'he'll have  Just as they crosse'l the bridge, they were
x them shot for this base outrage !" shouted overtaken by Sergeant Clilord and tlie rest
S Mr. Barrett.'                            of the scouts ; alnd the Serg.'ant was delight-
(     "So)meboTly else will get shot, and that ed when hie saw how sucesttul his two favor-
devilish soon ii' even a situe-e straw is laid ites had been in tracking out and capturing
ii our way !"~ cried Bruco. E' Cotme, may good the Rebel oflicer'.
vowuwown, get in here by the side of your  " )o you intend to stop at the General's
daughter, and' -on shall soon be in safety. iead-quarters as you put Serglant? !'asked
There is plentyof roomts-if the Major thinks )olan.
taeitatti his dignity to sit by the side of  " No, indeed!" replied Clifford. I know
rtot-n whom lie lyingly calls slaves, he can my duty better than that.  I received my
etarl down in the bottom of the wagon at orders lhr this scout from Colonel Dodge,
t feet ! And you, Mr. Barrett. can come and to him I1 must report, and to him 0tit
Ill to our Commanding- General as soon as ;prisoner must be delivered  lie will report
+ a like, and account for concealing a Con- to the General, and take the prisoner there
- etfiter on your liremises. and trying himself probably. Itide up, mn;ii no lagging
' elyour slaves off into the Rebel lines. in the streets now."
I d a vise you to come right along-and to   And the party moved on at a sweeping trot;
bring your clothes with you, for 'ie tmy the wagon in the. centre, through the town,
Want  'ou to stay a while-possibly he may and for : mile beyond, to the camp of the
tn'ii' you the Hospitalities of Sutllk jil.'I Mounted Ihitles, near the Norfolk railroad.
-   The planter was almost speechless with  When they reached the camp, the magni-f

E4
A
4'

ii

M
i t

t
s
r


i

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.

cent band of the regiment was out upon the And have a horse for him also to ride down
parade-ground, playing lively airs, while the to head-quarters on."
men grouped around seemed to be forgetting  The Sergeant saluted, and hurried out to
for the time the hardships of war and the obey orders.
toils of the soldier.                      In a very short time, the guard was mount.
When the scouts drew   before the tent of ed, and the Colonel's horse saddled ; the Ma-
the Colonel, the Sergeant dismounted, sent jor was also mounted, and on his way to
his n:ue in by the orderly, and was instantly head-quarters to be examined by the corn-
called in to report to the Colonel.      lnaniding General.
His report was soon made, and then Bruce  On the way, he condescended to unbend his
and Dolan were called in to report the par- dignity enough to report the fact that one of
iculars of the capture of Major.Barrett,  liscaptors had struck him in the face after
lius they did briefly, not omitting to state he was a prisoner.
his indignation at being oubliged to surrender "My men are not rude, as a general thing,
to a  rivate-                            without they are very much provoked," said
S ou have acted nobly, my men," said the the Colonel, quietly. " Did you give the man
gratified Colonel, to the scouts, "and I will any provocation?"
mention each of your names favorably to the  " None that a man of his grade had a right
General. Sergeant, escort your prisoner in, to notice. l[e made mue angry because he
and let the two women be taken to a tent by doubted that the woman who was with me
themselves until morning, when we will see was a slave, and I believe I called hint a thief,
what had best be done for them."         or a liar, or something of that sort," said the
The Sergeant saluted, and went out after Major.
the Major, who sat sullen and scowling in the  " And lie slapped you in the face for that ?"
wagon ; mad because he had to sit and be asked the Colonel,
gaced at by a hundred or more curious soldiers,  "Yes, Sir !"
who wished to know how the graybackk "     "Well, Major, I shall punish him-punish
had been caught.                         him with a severe reprimand-for not knock-
His look was still morose when he entered lig you down. Sir. I never permit my amen
the tent of the Colonel, and the polite bow of to deserve or to receive such epithets tamely.
the handsome young otlicer-for though a Some of my men would have spoiled voor
Colonel he had not yet entered his twenty- teeth for maticating purposes for less oince
fourth year-received no response, not even than that.  I am  informed that the girl
a nod of civility. whlom you call a slave is your own L-
- I understand from my Sergeant, Sir, that sister !"
you arc Major Barrett, of the First Virginia "She is my father's property, Sir; so ii
Cavalry, Conlederate service," said the Col- her mother !" said the Major, tartly.
on.                                .       " Was, you mean, Major. I presume t! at
Ihat is my name and rank, Sir," said the they will come under the President's Procla-
Major, stiffly.                          nation of Freedom, as having belonged to a
'lake a seat. Major. As it is likely you disloyal owner. I am no Abolitionst, .ir,
will be offered for exchange very soon, you but when men claim their own flesh and
will probably not object to giving your parole blood as slaves, I can only say that I sec the
of honor not to attempt to leave the quarters most odious feature that slavery can wear.
to which I shall assign you in camp, and But here we are at the quarters of the Con-
therefore prevent the necessity of placing manding-General. And let me advise you,
you in close confinement."               for your own sake, to be a little more courte-
"I am a Virginian, Sir, and scorn to accept ous to him than you have been to me, orl he
any favors front an enemy. I don't care may give you less comfortable quarters than
where you put me--I will get away if I can !" even I intend to assign you. He is rather
replied the Major, bitterly,             touchy, and is not a mall that will bear inso-
"Very well, Sir, it being your own choice lence tamely."
to taste tihe hardships of captivity, 1 certainly  "When I want advice, Sir, I will ask you
shall not disappoint your taste. You will for it. I repeat, Sir, that I am a Virginian,
first visit the Commanding-General with me, and ask no favors !' said the Major, with a
and thn I can give you aeconunodations in sneer. "Your General may send me to hell,
tle guardhouse until I cati sei you to the for all I care. I'd send him and you there in
care of General l)ix, at Fortress Monroe."  a hurry, if 1 had you in my power
And the Colonel bowed once more with     The Colonel was too much of a gentleman
rarcastic politeness to the prisoner.     to take notice of the worse than childisn
'Sergeant,' he added, turning to Clifford, malignancy and pettishness of this specimen
tell the Adjutant to detail a rer eant and of Southern chivalry.
s mounted meu as a guard for this oticer. : We will ? save tae prisoner to his interview

2g

LIFt IN THE SADDLE.

ith the General, and visit another locality burned, and his felds, once so splendidly
in southeastern Virginia, for a short time.  cultivated, were already running to weeds.
But he bore all these evils with the stern
--~~~~                 stoicism of a patriot, looking for the day to
=''CHAPTER XII.                          come when Right would triumph and he
Before the war, there was not a more de- once more see peace and its pleasures.
,ligttil spot in all Virginia than Cedralia,  He had suffered the most of his losses at
th very prettily-named residence of Doctor Confederate hands ; for they, looking upon
Glover, on Cedar Point. The waves of the a Southern Unionist as a worse enemy than a
River Nansemond lave the pebbly beach in Northern Federalist, had taken that means to
front of his grounds, while the roomy, old- punish what they termed his treasoni. He
fashioned mansion, but a little way back, was had often been advised to take his children
completely embowered by lofty trees, around and go North, where at least he would meet
the trunks and branches of which crept with kindness and protection.
flowering vines-honeysuckle and ivy, mak-  But his invariable answer was :
ing their shade as dense as dense could be. "My parents and my with are bunricd at
His plantation was not very large-per- Cedralia. I shall never leave their graves to
haps four or five hundred acres made up its be trampled upon by a stranger. 1 take no
area; but he was full-handed to work it, part in the unhappy contest now going on,
owning near one hundred field-hands, and it and I will not leave my home withQutI am
wits a model of neatness and thrift. There forced from it by a power stronger than toy
were no scaly out-buildings, rotten and fall- own will."
ing fences, or weed-rown fields upon it. lie Living now a life of almost isolation. con-
seemed to'take a pride and pleasure in hay- pared to the days when his prineely hospi-
in  everything in order-fences, ditches, tality kept the mansion continually filled with
bridges and farming-tools. Also in having guests. the Doctor kept his griefs within his
tine stock, horses, mules, cattle, sheep, pigs, own bosom, endeavoring ever to keep a
and poultry. Not so much because the profit cheerful face on when his dear daeghtet
froat a well-kept and well-used place was the were in his company.
greatest, as because it gave him real comfort  Of these, the eldest was Annie---only eight-
to see everything in order.              een when the Rebellion first broke out.
indoors, too, everything was rich, luxuri- Rather petite in form, she was as beautiful as
ous, and also neat and tasty. Choice furni- a poet's dream. Her complexion was ahnost
ture, valuable paintings, a library second to too fair for such jet-black eyes, anti such
no private library in the State, statuary pur- jetty hair as hiunr in glossy curls over her
chased from the first studios of the Old World. splendid neck ana shoulders. Intelligent, an
Once the mansion and its furniture had adept in music, with a disposition as sweet as
been the pride of one of the most queenly summer-perfumes, she was the pride of her
women in the State ; but she, the worshiped father. And it was her constant study to
wife of the Doctor, and the mother of his two soothe his cares and smoothe the wrinkles on
beautiful young daughters, had been called his shadowed brow.
up to another world ; leaving the good Doctor  11er sister, Marvelia, was so nearly like hr
to mourn his loss with a sad heart, and to in looks that, though nearly tWo years young-
seek for comfort in the possession of two of er, she was often supposed by strang-rs to be
the sweetest children that ever a parent was a twin with her. And as Anmie ias her cis-
blessed with.                            ter's constant companion and teacher, itemay
aN     Such was the position of Doctor Glover be supposed that she did not let Mat vet
when the Rebellion broke out. And he, in- lack any knowledge which she herself pus
telligent and far-seeing, had opposed the se- sessed.
cession of his native State with all his power.  Their visitors were not many afte the war
For in it he saw her ultimate desolation. ruin, commenced. Neighbors who were open S'-
and the utter downfall of all her former cessionists of course "cut them entirelyv-
greatness. He was known as a Union man those who were secretly Union in pmil;pl+
from the first ; and, of course, was hated by, dared not openly visit them, and Rebel oth'
the leaders of the secession-movement, and cers never came except upon errands of con-
when they got in power injured to the extent fiscation.
of their means.                           But there was one very constant visitor
Before one year of the Rebellion bad there after Norfolk had been captured, and
passed, though lie still clung to the acres and Suffolk taken possession of by our forces,
the mansion which had descended to him leaving the River Nansemond open to tim
from his ancestors, lie did not own or have navigation of our transports and the fleet of.
with hint a dozen servants-his stock had .-maIl gunboats used in those waters.
been nearly all killed or driven off, his fences i It was a Federal naval officer, whom we

11

24

vs

Vr

j1
Jf
ia


r
I
f
x
H  i   t

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.

will call Captain Radford, acknowledging Annie, gently. " t suppose he is going down
that we use another name for a real charac- to the fort this morning !"
ter, whose modesty is only equaled by hisj "Not before he comes to see how we get
bravery and often proud heroism, and whom along in the hall ofdesolation!" said her father,
we therefore (o not name here. knowing quietly. " I wish I could entertain him as I
we'lll hi3 re'tirmg (lispoosition when lie has no oniCe ((old have (lone. Our enemies have
enemy in front. Then, you may be assured, lift me little power to dispense hospitality."
there is no reire in him .                " Never mind, father ;as he always says, a
Captain Itathord comnmanded on  of the welcome in a hovel is of a thousand times
(oulleo-nr Luinboat.; which had the Ninse- more value than a cold reception in a pal-
m1od fliv r anIl the mouth of the Jamnens for ace.  Ile knows that you have the will, it
fa elecial, er1iging-ground, and he seldom  not the power. Ali, there he comes !"
pas ed 'edar Point without coming to, and  Young-not over five and twenty years-
vi-itimg the hore, to call upon the Doctor tall, well-formed, good-featured, and with in-
an llii alndy.  '";pecting the Doctor for telligence in his expression, Capt:in Radford
hi; 1oyahly, he prolbly deem(I it a duty to was well calculated to produce a favorable
call Iequt utly to see that ihe Rebels no lon- impression wherever lie went into society.
ger attemiptul to persecute hin. as they had  His dark-blue eyes sparkled brightly as ho
(on betorelhe advance of our forces; an(d advanced, and, lifting his cap, saluted the
the sight of the two beautiful sisters, especial- Doctor and his family j
ly o hvne. lihe color was always higher  " I am glad to see you, Captain !" said the
ant her eye hnirhter when he caine, proba- I)octor. " Have you breakfasted '?"
biv netle that duty a pleasure, also.      "An hour or more since, thank you, Doc.
lie often, when going up the river, had tor," said the young Captain. "LIam going
Folne preit to leave in tie shape of fruit, down to the fort with dispatches and a pris-
recent unsic, or newly-published books, that oner, and called to see if you had any corn-
lie had reccied from the North. And the mission that I could fulfill for you in that di-
good )o;or, not to be outdone in generosity, reaction "
ir(lucntly hal some poultry ready for the  "None, thank you, Captain. You are very
C.ipttiiis se ward, for which lie wnld take kind, but our wants are moderate now-a-days.
no I rcomipie       .    .e.            The lack of friends and company entailed
A together, the Captain's visits were very upon us by the fortunes, or rather the misfor-
ugreeable to the Doctor and his family ; ani tunes, of this war, leaves our requirements
that the Captain deemed them nreeable to also very few."
limelt, may be infrired from two fact.   " You speak of a prisoner, Captain," said
First, their frequency ; next, his selfishness Annie. " Is it one of the Confederates ?"
in keeping them so much to himself. For    "Yes. Miss Annie, a Major Barrett, of the
he never mentioned the young ladies to his First Virginia Cavalry. IIe was taken yes-
brother-oflicers on the other gunboats, never terday while on a visit to his father near
olered any one else an introduction. He evi- Windsor."
deftly wished a clear coast for himself; and  " Why, it is cousin George !" cried Marve-
would have gladly established a blockade on his. " how his father and mother and poor
that port, if it had been according to rule.  Delia must feel!"
And now, having quite thoroughly intro-  "lie was not wounded, was he ?" asked
duced these new characters to our readers, Annie.
we will go on with another thread in the   "No, lie was captured without resistance.
woof of our history.                     He might have had his parole ; but he chose to
it was the morning of the day after the be very ugly, and the Commanding-General
capture of Major Barrett and the Magnolia, has ordered me to take him to Fort Delaware,
Captain ladiord's gunboat, had just slackened where he can wait inside of a stone wall for
her speed opposite to the landing at Cedar the day of his exchange."
Point, and signaled her presence by one    "Iis whole family, like himself, are bitter
sharp blast from the engineer's whistle.  Secssionists," said the Doctor.  Ills mother
The I)octor and his daughters were out on is my own sister, but she is molded entirely
the piaza, which fronted toward the water- by the opinions of her husband.'
side, citying the fresh morning breeze and  "Would you like to see your cousin, young
the pem unia of the dew-moistened flowers, ladies ?" asked the Captain. " 1i you or your
when thy Lard the signal.               kind father has that wish, my boat is at your
"There a your Captain again, Annie !" said service."
Marvelia, wihii a smile, as she noticed the  "1(10 not like him very much, and never
heightened color on her sister's check when d-id, for lie was always too hateilly haughty
that sound was heard,                   for me," said Annie. "lBut he is our relative,
Your Captain, just as much, sister !" said and in trouble now, and 10do not know but it

LIFE IN T lE SADDLE.

27

would ibe our duty to see if we can do any-  But Captai   Ia:ford, with true naval
thing tehr his comfort. If you will gather pride, made as much of a "man-otwar" of
Some flowers. sister Marvelia I will get your her as he could, keeping her neat and order-
bonnet and shbawl, while I get my own ; and ly, and enforcing discipline as strictly as it
it father will go with us, we will go and see was done on board the ilag-ship.
him.                                       So, when his boat approached lthe vessel,
I think no more of him than you do, with his visitors in it, the pipe of tie boat-
Annie - for I1e it was who advised General swain's mate was heard ceding the side-boys
Prvor of msy friendship to the Union, and to attend tho side ; and when he ascended the
caused hint to confiscate my horses and cat- ladder, and handed his iur visitors carefully
tie ; but, as you say, lie is in trouble, and I up from the boat, the officer of the deck stood
wiil not turn my back upon him now. We at the gangway, ready to receive hia with the
will accept a passage in your boat to see him, customary salute.
Captaii RadIford, and feel greatly obliged for  "Let the boat remain manned at the side,
your offir" said the Doctor.             Mr. Manson," he said to the officer of the
You mre entirely welcome ; it gives me deck.  " I shall want her again in a few
the greatest pleasure to be of service to you." minutess."
"1 Know it, my dear Sir, and I only re-  And he then escorted his guests into the
gret that my fallen fortunes render it impos- cabin.
sible fir mel to adequately jrove my gratitude  Before the door of a small state-room one of
for your frequent kindnesses. tWe have a the seamen was slowly walking, carrying an
little leach and honey left ; come in and try unsheathed cutlass in his haids.
a tast w while the girls are getting ready."  "lie would not give his parole to remain
Radtord would not dishonor his button by quiet even here," saidI Radford, in a low tone,
a retu.al, and he accepted the offer of the true indicating with a motion of his hand that the
'irginian as readily as it had been tendered. prisoner was in the state-room-" and I had
Ike uid scarcely mixed and swallowed the to put him under waard. Will you see him
mellow beverage, when the young ladies re- in his room, or shalm I invite him out?"
ppmared   Marvelia bearing a bouquet of    " Please send the guard away for a few
1 grant flow'es almost as lovely as herself.  minutes, and let us see hit out heic, free from
" You see that, released as we are from the apparent restraint, and lie will perhaps not
thralldom of fashion, or promenading toilet, feel so bad," said Annie.
gives us but little trouble," said Annie to the  " Certainly !" said RaIford ; and calling the
jung Captain, as, without any prudish af- sentinel to him, told him to remain outside
fectastiou, she accepted his proftered arm. for the cabin door until lie was recalled.
the (alk.                                   Then advancing to the state-ror door, he
I never see a lovely lady dreamed plainly, said, in a kind and gentlemanly time
hob: I Hy iealize the words of the poet," lie  " Some friends-relatives of yours--Major,
replied .                                 have called on board to see you. Will you
Loveliness      walk out to see theam ?"
Ous not the foreign atdof ornament,  ,  Tlie Major started to his feet, and came out
But a, w heturoSeid, ado,,trued the most'. with a flush of surprise upon his sallow
A roseate blush upon that sweet face, and a cheek.
sigh of pleasure told hit that his compliment  But when he saw Doctor Glover and his
% is appreciated.                         dtiughters, a haughty expression of c mltempt
settled on his face, and lie said
h              CHAPIER     XIII.               "I claim no relationship with Unionists
The Magnolia had been a New York ferry- and traitorsI"
boat; hut being strong, powerful in machin-  "Oh, Cousin George, we are no traitors!
ery, with a light draft, and a facility formove- we are sorry for your miisfortunte, and have
Un ut iii narrow channels, in consequence of come to say so.  'lease accept these flowers
having a rudder at either cnd, so as to run from sister and inc."
either endi foremost with the same ease, she  The sweet tone and pleasant smile of such
ha I heen fitted up for Government service, a lovely girl as Narvelia ought to have
4     ariaied wih two long rifled guns mud a couple melted the ice in the heart of tin anchiorite.
. i howitzers of the Ialgmrn principle.  But they had no effect upon the fanatical
Her illcers were only thie Lieutumunt-Com- Rebel olcer.
invading (Captain by courtesy), two Masters'  "Rather say that you have conme to sce a
Mates, three engineers anat a pilot, and her Rebel prisoner in the hand:; of Yankee
crew numbered only thirty rmen, gunners, nigger-stealers !" lie bitterly replied. "Since
firemen, mind all ; but she was sutliciently you have no more niggers to lose, imay
oficered and manned for her size and the be you'll join Mnds with the Yankee
&amp;ervice which she had to perform.         yourselves !"

26

4

I
Is


i

1 I

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
" Major Barrett, I should suppose that   "You must look out, Bruce, or you'll 1loe
your own self-respect, if you possess any, your heart to that daughter. She certainly
would cause you to treat ladies with cour- is the prettiest woman I have yet seen in
tesy, even if they were not relatives who Virginia 1"
came to sympathize with you in your misfor-  " The prettiest, the purest, the best !" said
tune !" said tadford, indignantly.      Bruce, his fine face flushed, and his dak eyes
"I treat them and you with all the respect beaming with enthusiasm.
you merit!" said the Major, with a sneer.  "Ah--has our heart gone already ?"
I hope the day is not far distant when I  "By thunder, I believe it has. She is as
shall be exchanged ; and then, perhaps, you modest and as sweetly spoken as she is beau.
may find me more anxious to tender you my tiful. She can read and write well, and she
respects in another shape. I always hated quotes Byron, and Moore, and Shakespeare,
Yankees and Southern sympathizers with as if she had them by heart
them, even before my capture, but now, 'hate'  "And yet she was a slave "
is altogether too tame a wod to express my  "Yes, to her own either. and lustfully per-
feelings. You may give your flowers to your secured by her own thalfnlrotrt I never
Yankee friend, Miss Glover-I willryet give was an abolitionist, never hal a word to say
him a more lasting remembrance, I hoped"  against slavery, but Ill eat my sabre if this
"You can return to your state-room, Sir!1" case don't stum  me' a
said Radford, calm, though angry.          "Well, now that y u have got her a place,
And lie recalled the sentinel to his post.  you'll have to keep a close eye o:i hec, or
And then lie endeavored to remove the that old curse, Noril cot, 'il have her spirited
unpleasant feelings from the minds of his back across the Rebel lines ugai r r
visitors, by showing them over his vessel,  "I'll spirit him  across the Styx if he
and offering th ei refreshments afterward, in attempts it. You'd better believe I shall
his own cozy little cabin,               keep a friendly eye upon her, n the one
In this he soon succeeded, for they had the that ever attenipts to ill-treat her, will have
good sense to see and feel that sympathy was to eat cold lead "
thrown away upon such a man as (corge      " Well-I must be off. I got a hi
Barrett'                                 the Colonel that we would have to take a
ride down into North Carolina, before many
CIAPTER XIV.                hours pass over our heads. 'there is some
"Well, Bruce, how have you succeeded in smuggling going on down there, that las ot
your mission of charity and mercy ?" asked to be broken up. By the way, do you think
Sergeant Clifford, a couple of days after their the octoroon can be trusted to do us a
return froiit the scout described in former service ?"
chapters.                                  "Yes, indeed-a more grateful creature
Observing a look of inquiry on the face of never lived !" reped Bruce.
the cavalryman, rather than a reply on his  "Then hint to her that there is
lips, the Sergeant added:                believe that a mail to the Rebels is rade upt
"I mean in regard to that beautiful octo- in Norfleet's house, once in a while. Per-
roon and 1her mother. Dolan told me that Imps she may find out something about it,
failing in getting permission to send them  ant do us a very great favor. And ask her
North, out of the department, you had gone to find oui awho visits the old wretch, besides
to Sutlolk to try to get some situation for our own people!"
them, where they    could live Indepen-    "I will. I promised to get her somecstmt
dently !"                                for dresses, forpherself and mother and when
"Ai, yes-that is so. They both Insisted I take that, I can instruct her to be on the
upon going to sonic place where they could lookout, anti also how to chmmtnic e with
work for a living, not feeling willing to be us, without creating suspicion gait her-
supported by us, though we offered to do it. self!"
An I have got thet a situation with old    "Do-and you will d
I orfleet, who keeps a big boarding-house on give you three months'oym et vod
Main sti-eet !"                            e of their mails, it '  lay o get hold o
" Old Norteet ? Why man, lie is one of tfl wo tow ,iould hellp us to iimd
'Old  ot feetWhy  an, ie I oneotiot who to look for when we are out."
the most hitter Secessionists in tcwn f"   "Well, I'll see to it, Sergeant. Are you
"I know it is said that he is.  But his bound off anywhere now?"
house is full of Federal officers and their "Yes; as soon as I can saddle up, I'm go-
wives; and if they board with him, it cannot ing down to the -iver. I want to ask my o-l
be an unsafe place for those poor women. fiend, Captain Radord, how the Major be.
They can stay there at any rate, until I can liaved when le got to Fortress Monroe. I
manage to get permission to send them think, ifl e put on his airs with General oix,
orth' '                                 he has most likely found out that he had

3=
_  S
.
f'°

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.                                29
Tartar to deal with! So long, to you; be who. apart from  their treason, have some
sure and put her on the watch for that mail- good qualities."
business !"                               "I have no doubt of it; indeed, I occa-
" I will, Sergeant ! And if you please keef sionally meet with them," said Clitiford. " Did
a button on your mouth in regard to my the Major give you any trouble ?"
liking her so well. I can afford to let you , " No, but his insolence was rather annoy-
know how I feel, for you will not tease and mng. .He promised vary faithfully to pay me
banter me. But the other boys might, and a visit, if he got exchanged, which would be
brokeii heads or bloody noses might follow, too rough to be agreeable ! But let him
and that isn't pleasant among friends ! I've comie-we are always ready to receive such
got a quick temper, and can't help it!"  visitors. To friends, we tender the juice of
"All riht,BfYrce. s never betray the the grape; to foes, the grape itself! And to
secret of a -friend !"                  verity my words, here comes the steward,
-                     with sonic very fair Catawba, and a little
of our ld naval life-balsam, old Mononga-
CHAPTER XV-                  hela whisky. Which will you take, Ser-
An hour after the time when he was con- geant ?"
versing with Bruce, as stated in the last chap-  "The Catawba, if you please, Captain. I
ter, Sergeant Clifford,,seated on a favorite prefer the juice of our own native grape to the
black horse, of great speed and bottom, rode distillation of rye
down upon the shore of the Nansemond to   " Help yourself; then; tie Catawba is
the usual landing-place of the barges from  genuine, sentto me from Cincinnati by an old
the gunboats, just below the drawbridge,  friend, direct from Longworth's own stock.
Fastcning the animal to one of the stout I suppose, in your lengthy scouts through tho
posts inserted there for fastenings to the - country, you come across some prime liquor
transports which were occasionally hauled once in awhile."
into the dock, lie waved his handkerchief as  "We seldom  stop  to look for prime
a signal to the gunboats, which, with a small liquors, Captain," siti the Sergeant, with a
head of steam on, lay at her anchor in the smile. "Our expeditions are too rapid and
stream, ready to be started down at a mo- too full of peril to allow of much search for,
meat's warning, if the order came.       or thought of; dainties, I assure you. Once
A quartermnaster being always on watch on in a while, we come across an applejack
the upper deck, soon saw his signal, and re- or peach-brandy distillery on some of timo
ported it ; and immediately after, a six-oared large plantations ; but as they are almost in-
boat was manned and on its way to the variably used to manuficture liquor for use
dock.                                   in the Rebel Army, it is a stading order to
in this boat the Sergeant was in a few mo- destroy them wherever found. And a very
meants transferred from  the shore to the good one, too, for the guerrillas generally
steamer, where he was met by a young ofi- hang about the vicinity of suchplaces, ready
cer, whose warm greeting betokened their to gobble up any Umonim soldiers whom  a
previous acquaintance, and by him conducted taste for the spirit may entice into the neigh-
into Captain ltadford's cabin.           borhood. I have had thie heads of thousands
That officer also received the Sergeantwith of barrels knocked in since I have been on
a warmth which told of having met him be- scouting-duty-enough to float your steamer
fore, and invited himn to a seat, ordering his in, I verily believe I"
steward to bring in refreshments at the same " Are you going out again soon ?"
time.                                      "I think, from a hint time Colonel gave me
"What news have you, Sergeant ?" he this afternoon, that I shall probably be in the
 asked.saddle and away before midnight. We have
"None of importance on shore, Sir ; so, to start in the night, or the Secessionists in this
having an hour or two of leisure, I rode down infernal town will get wind of tie course we
to hear if you had any, and to ask how Major take, and manage to signalize in some way
Barftt liked his transfer from our guard- ahead of us, and prepare the Robels for our
house to Fortress Monroe l"           '  coming. They have some method of signal-
"le liked nothing which we could give izing which I cannot discover. But they do
him. ie was and is a regular brute. It all manage to convey a knowledge of our move-
Southerners were like him, I should like to ments often, far, far ahead of us. We only
see the war continued until the stock was all outwit them by getting of' when they do not
run out, and very mother's son of them  suspect us, and getting beyond the lines un-
buried in the -last ditch', which they're so observed."
fond of talking about. But, thank fortune!  "I often see their rockets and signal-
there are gentlemen in the South, even in the lights from the river," said Captain Brad-
ranks of those who war against the Union, ford.

4

1i

Fi

!


two thirds of the women and nearly
all i t:e n -v farier3 Itcft in the country b
lone to t htir 'ret signal-corps. I am satis
h1e1- of it.  I iIad my way, wc'u make short
'w ork of soie 01 these 'neutral' tiriers.
i i.soi of him out squirrel-hunting, wit
dIv ble-t 'Allele I gitnci loadIed with hall o
h  hot,once in awhile. And I seldom fin
a mm ta see ,nd time-for too many o
en len ive been picked off on picket-duty
S  ilese sail squirrel-liunters, not to be rc
nott ecell b' mie lwhen I meet them! But
1;   i  oi1   - Upin. C.ill on us at cam!
\4 hen you  -it. Our ofli-ers are al naysglac
tecotie i'ir naval friends."
b ank yot. Sergeant, I know it. Get per
lso lty soon to take a cruise with
imc. I   till ry to -how you soet sport. I
we can t   :may letter, we can kill some
dut t  att  'O n  ylii ,-r" i'
I 1Ihear ou iare 1tl- of dtuks, Captain,'
dl the Sr 'rint, wih a smile. " I was on
a tcoUt lot' ,n low hu(tka tick, not long
oe t', :oil I  r t ro you hear (edar Point."
Cedar P It'
'Ile('  biii i ti I like a young girl as
- O.  o   id not huhtt, Captain,' said
te-S't 1    "i.  I .';a t ot trying  itto  your
seitl    , itu  e  li i1 our line of duty,
learn to so w a litle of every thing that goes
oar"
I ltie; e you do," eail the Captain, with
a laugh. " Lke uitiither gl:s of wine on the
strciintlh of it. 1ltore you go, and drink to
the lie ;i Iiht  poIi111(et -ti af fbinily in Vir-
ginia, nd to t o 'of the pi: 0it t girls in the
'Iwo of liitth . Captain ?" said the Ser-
soant. is lie tilhl' Iiii gls-i. " You do not
intend to napo rrte bot, i do too  '
Oh no , it ' 'tllu '-t e down with me
soie ltae, ill iitroluec you-that is, if you
are not ulrcal ailqttaite d with them."
'i'ltank iiu ; I shall receive an introduc-
tion with plea,'e, for I do tiot even know
the ladies by  lit, though I accidentally
heard oi themt  aid your occasional visits
there. Atl tow, as I see your glass is filled,
their health I!
With sincere pleasure !"
And the toast was honored with bumpers
drained.
The Sergeant then was excused, and in a
short time was rowed to the shore, mounted,
and dashed swiftly along toward the camp of
the Rifles.
CHAPTER      XVI.
It was mtiidmittt taain. and, trite to his cx-
pectatit'ns, Cli:htrd with his faithful scouts
was ot m oe in ttin hite ade, botitn 1, tiot r
the JU:eh-e ater this tiue, but for the North

y Carolina line by the Somerton &amp; Gatesville
e-|road.
Without a loud word spoken; answering
t almost in a whisper the challenges of the
I provost-patrols n hiom they met in the streets,
h they had ridden through Sullolk with so little
r noise, that they hoped for once to have got-
d1 ten oil unnoticed by the secession spies in
f the rotten town.
y    They had passed the outer line of town
and camp guards, and were near the outside
I signal-station, when, on looking hack, Clifford
p -aw a single rocket rising high in air from
d some partof the town in his rear.
"That is no signal of ours; there are no
- scouts or troops out to signalize to,' lie mut-
1 tered, as he looked at the meteoril-appearing
f light, visible but for a minute and thei lost
in the darkness.
Rebel, and answered, too !" lie said, bit-
terly, as another rocket was seen rising far
i ahead of him to the southward and west-
-ward.                              Ws-
"'fTheir cursed shies never sleep. Like as
not, these  signals  will start men out
from Franklin to intercel)t us ! We may as
well ride fast, boys, for all need of ilsn e
and quiet is over. Either sonic traitor about
head-quarters betrays us, or the Ribs have
sharper eyes and keener scent titan any
Cuban bloodhound that ever ran t pon a
track. Not a word of our expedition has
been breathed except at head quarters, and
not one of you at this moment knows where I
an ordered to go. Yet, that ihrthest rocket
has been sent up from the very road which I
am ordere l to take. Now, (itere arc three
roads in that direction, ahead of us, each
leading to an important point and hov the
devil they have found out which road I am
going to take, bothers me. I would think it
was chance, if I hind not been served just in
the same way before. You all remember
when I was going out to Caville, three
weeks ago, and left town by the Edenton
Road, to fool them, that we saw lights thrown
up on the Carsville Road while we were
actually riding away from it. intelding to
reach it by a roundabout path ; an 'reimem-
ber, too, when we did get on the road. that we
found more Rebs there than we wanted to
see, and hind to skedaddle back to our lines
again. They were sharp, and no mistake -
but they must have treachery to help them
besides. Ride up, we will soon reach our
pickets."
On, at a sweeping trot, went the gallant
little cavalcade, and did not draw a ren un-
til the sharp, " Halt i Who comes there "" 0:
the pick 't-guard, admonished them  of the
vicinity of their friends on post.
''hie countersign anci is given, the last
picket-s'ftion panscd, and then on through

LIFE IN TIHE SADDLE.

- LIFE IN THE SADDLE.                               31
the dwmu fish pine-forest of the country, over slacken up a little now, for our horses musn't
a sandy road, passing here and there a de- be quite used up when we get there. We
serted plantution, or some negro but, around must be ready for a chase or a run, accord-
which howling and half-starved dogs alone  ig to what we find there. Ill halt and feed
gave signs of life or occupation, the party at the next brook we come to, and let you
galloped.                                take a bite out of your lhaversacks.'
N ow and then, in"crossing some small un-  The men, well knowing that the Sergeant
lbridfed stream, they would halt and allow  always cared for their comfort as much or
their horses to take two or three sucks of more than for his own, were well contented
water ; but for no other reason did they stay with all of his arrangements ; ever yieldmng
their speed, for the Sergeant knew, by a halt- full as ready obedience to his orders as they
dozen rockets, seen, like the first, at different would have done to the command of any
intervals, that it was known through the commissioned officer in the regiment.
countriv that his party was out. And he   A proper spot to halt and feed at, was soon
vante't to get though the business he was reached, and a half-hour spent i refreshing
ordered out en, before a Rebel force too pow- the men and the horses.  This done,,the
erful for himi to cope with should be sent to scouts were again mounted, and rode rapidly
intercept him.                           on toward their place of destination.
It w-as lacking an hour-or two of daylight,  The face of the country, now changing
when lie galloped through the scattered vil- materially, showed that they were approach-
lage of Soierton, passing by its only hotel, ig the river. The pine-forests, and dry,
upon ihia sign of which was painted the three- sandy plains were left behind, and swamps
linked sign of Odd Fellowship, above the of cypress and cane were more frequent.
name of its keeper, Smith ; no sign of life The narrow  road was quite deeply rutted
being visible in the town but the innumerable with wagon-wheels, showing that it was
and noisy set of dogs generally to be found much traveled with loaded vehicles. Hear-
in and about a southern village. Talk not of ing the sound of creaking wheels ahead of
starvation yet in the South for a year to him, the Sergeant- increased the speed of his
come ;' only import Chinese cooks who can party to a smart gallop, and soon after came
'make puppy-pie, bow-wow   sausage, and up to six loaded mule-wagons, covered, and
canine fricasecs.                        reighted with salt from the Re bel salt-works,
Taking a road to the right, at the further on Currituce Sound.
end of the village, the Sergeant led his party The drivers were so completely surprised
at a dashing pace along it, in a direction at iat they were captured without the least re-
a right-angle with his former course. Nearly sistance, or attempt to escape.
halt-hour after, when at least'five or six miles On finding 'that they were even nearer
along this narrow and apparently unfre- Maynard's Ferry-the point of his destination
quented road, he saw a rocket thrown up far -than he had supposed, the Sergeant dis-
away to his left.                        mounted half of his men, and, concealing
-ihank Heaven, I've fooled them  this them  in the salt-wagons, bade the drivers
time,~ he said to his men. "They think move on as before, informing them that cer-
we're going to Gatesville, or down on the tain death would follow any attempt to
Currituck Road, and instead of that I'm escape, or to inform any Rebels of the Fed-
bound for a ferry on the Chowan Rivei, eral approach. Then following close after,
where, if we have luck, we'll find salt and leading the horses of the dismounted men, he
apple-jack enough to last Richmond for a moved on.
month, if all Lees Army was there, if our  In about an hour, they came in sight of the
information is correct!"'                store-houses at the Ferry, and saw, to their
" Will there be no Rebels there to guard gratification, a large number of wagons,
it ' asked one of the men.              mules, horses, etc., there, showing that the
"'cre may be a few; for it is a depot depot was one of importance.
where they receive contraband goods, salt, Carefully scanning the place through his
and whisky for the Rebel Army, and store field-glass, the Sergeant saw only four or five
it until it is sent for. A deserter gave the in- gray-coated soldiers in the crowd of men and
formation, and we are sent to destroy the women there, and made up his mind that he
property."                              would find little, it any, armed resistance
Good, there will be some fun in that," there.
cried Bruce. "We hit the Johnny Rebs      Moving up under cover of the salt-wagonms.
hard when we destroy their belly-timber. I he was within a couple of hundred yards or
hope there will be just a few of the gray- the depot before a person there had a thought
backs there to give us a little target-practice, of a Federal soldier being near. Having then
How far have we yet to ride, Sergeant ?"  a chance to pass the wagons, he made a dash
"About fifteen miles, I think, and we can forward, with a half-dozen of his men, at full

Fr

t

i


32                         LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
speed, and captuied the ferry-boat just as it' when he had succeeded in so perfectly carry.
was about to leave that shore of the river, ing out the instructions which had been
with three Rebel soldiers and four or five citi- given to him.
zens in it.                              The Rebel prisoners had cast many an
The rest of his men were up in a moment ; anxious look behind them, as if they antici-
and the terrilied Rebels, too frightened to pated pursuit and rescue ; but all hope passed
light or run, surrendered in a moment, for away when they heard the hail of the Fed.
they supposed a Yankee Army was upon eral picket-guard, and saw that they were
them.                                   inside of the Union lines.
Forcing white men and contrabands alike  it was yet early in the evening when Ser-
into the works, Cliilord and his men now geant Clifford, having received his instrue-
comtoenced dumping the salt in the wagons tions directly from head-quarters, halted his
into the river. The store-houses, filled with little command in front of them, and dis-
goods of various kinds-army-blankets, shoes, mounting, went in to report.
tobacco, bacon, salt, whisky, etc.-were at  When he reported how much he had done,
ouce fired, and thousands upon thousaids of and how far he had ridden in so short a
dollars' worth of goods and p)ovisions went time, the Commanding-General was both
at once to feed the hungry flames.      pleased and astonished. And the often-re-
t1There were sour looks and low-breathed heated but never-fulfilled promise of speedy
curses among the poor Rebs. But loaded re- promotion was again renewed.
volvers, Shaupo's carbines, and keen-ground  Alas for him who hopes for promotion
saibres in Yankee hands, were good dissuad- without having political influence at home to
is from open resistance; and all the satis- back up applications for it. Merit goes almost
faetion the Southerners got, was an invitation ever unrewarded, without it has been washed
to bring more such things to a depot, and in a political sewer. The " baptism of blood"
give the Yankees another chance to destroy is nothing.
them.
Mounting the half-dozen captured soldiers        CUAPTER XVII
on the best horses he could find, and leading  "Ser rcant, my little octoroon is a jewel 4"  o
a score more of good animals, Clitlord left cried bruce, dashing into the quarters of
the depot as soon as the work of destruction Sergeant Clifford, as if it was the end of a
vas complete ; for he well knew that the hard-contested foot-race, on the evening of
smooke of the burning buildings and stores the day after their return from the expedition
could be seen for a great way, and he had into North Carolina.
.;od reason to believe that a Rebel force  " Why, what is up, George ?" asked the      x
wuld soon be sent out after him. Sergeant.
Taking another and much less-frequented  " She has found out that a Rebel mail is to
road, leading further back into the State, and be sent out of our lines to-morrow morning !"
also out of the line of the liebel scouts which "' Ah ! that is important, if she can also
often came down from the Bllackwater, he tell us who is to carry it, so that we can get
started at as rapid a pace as he could keep it !
up, on his return to camp.                " That she has also learned. It is to be
Mile alter mile was passed over by the carried by a Rebel lady who has got permais-
hardy scouts, so used to fatigue that they did sion to go and see a sick sister near the Isle
not feel in thle least an amount of exertion of Wight Court-House. That is the dodge to
which would have worn out a holiday- get it past our lines!
soldier at home.                          "How will it be concealed. Has she found
By changing his saddles from his own that out ?"
tired to the fresh-captured horses, he was  "Yes ; even that, too. She saw Mrs. Nor.
able to keep his force at a gallop through the flect fixing hooks on the inside of the lady's
most of the day ; and though, by changing under-garments, on which the letter-bag is
his route repeatedly and takitig by-paths, he to be fastened. She overheard their conver-
lengthened his distance greatly, when the sation, and thus found out the whole plan i"
sun went down he was within a short distance " Good ; you need not mention it to any-
of the Federal picket-line, on a road some body else, and you-and mc will meet the lady
miles to the east of that which he had went beyond our lines to-morrow morning and re-
,uut upon. lieve her of' that mail. Does any one intend
For his experience as a scout had taught to go with her 5"_
him that the enemy would inevitably watch  "Only a negro boy to drive the buggy."
tor him on the same route buck ; and only by " Then we shall need no force. Do not j
n change could he avoid a fight, which, en- breathe the matter to any one else, and we
cumbere 1 as he was with lprisoners and cap- will have a big thing all to ourselves. Your
fured htorses, he did not desire, especially octoroon is indeed a jewel. We must be

4'


A                                                                                                                            ~4
LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
careful to so work matters that she may not but be serving them
be suspected, or her opportunities for aiding principle which the n
d       us will be few indeed."                   But their conversant
"Do not fear but that I will be careful. a short time, by the s
She is so gratefiul for her freedom that she carriage; and, in a fe
will do anything for us that comes within ed buggy, with a lad
S   her power."'                            the octoroon, and a si
"I am glad of it. And now, my dear boy, made its appearance.
you must excuse me, I have got writing to do The Sergeant and h
which will occupy me steadily for some concealed until the bu
hours, and must be left alone,          to them, and then su
i          " All right, Sergeant. As we have nothing road, in front of it.
on hand this afternoon, I'll get permission to by the head, and the
take a ride down to the camp of the Thir. side of the vehicle.
teeth Inliana and see some of the boys   "You need not tro
there. I like them, for they're as fu of fun men 1" said the lady,
off duty as monkeys in a sugar-field, and "The pass which has
when lighting comes they're always ahead. your guards and pic
Old Dobbs may wel be proud of his boys- Provost-Marshal, by
g       better men were never seen on a battle-field." ing-General, will do
With this truth on his lips, Bruce departed, factory to you. Unles
leaving. the Sergeant to his work.      insultig and contem
her sneering tone-
Day had not dawned when Sergeant Clif- money I have about
ford and George Bruce tooktheirstationson and not worth much
what was known astheProvidenceChuh        "We do not wish a
Road, aotameortobynthour-said the Sergeant, w
mos-pot o th Feera piket. Tey admay have something
githis os        tpingthronthivalue to us. A mai
Sutol, or coming by any oebel lines"
taking the Portsmouth roadThe color left the f
of the Nansemond River inan instant-for she
down that river some way,and her color was
ming it in a narrow place, and riding through a moment she reco
the woods, avoiding all roads. Thfus they mind, and said :
had, unseen and unsuspected, reached the spot "You seem to kn
where, concealed in a dense growth of scrub- doubtless know that
by pine, they awaited the approach of the the first families in th
female mail-carrier.                      "I do, Miss Gates;
W e  knew  of course  that trt ela y w u d n t  e y w ere  in  ti e,;touseetaeadyhso fare
frtelady would not leave the town before common mail-carrier
sunrise ; but they had come early, so as to be " You are mistaken
iSUre tl ishe did not get ahead of them.  I will get out of thi
Leaving their horses some ways back from may search it and m
the road, the two soldiers sat down near it will tell you that I a
thiemseilves, and ate breakfast from their well sick relation I" said 1
filled haversacks, and then lighted their pipes nant look.
to "smoke the time" away until the expected  "It is exceedingly
traveler put in an appearance.          doubt the word of a
Doo  know what this kind of work stances I" said the S
puts me in mind of, Sergeant ?" asked Bruce, "But I must beg M
as he threw a cloud of smoke from his mus- the mailbag which
tache-shadled lips,                     person now, hanging
I cannot say that I do," replied Clifford, skirts; and when sh
but I amr ady to be enlightened."     not detain her from v
"Well, it puts me in mind of stories that I for an instant 1"
have read about the highwaymen in England  " It is false-I ha
in old times. Hero we are, like a Dick Tur- me 1" cried the Bout
pin or a Claude Duval, waiting on the road ing rage.
for what may turn up."                      Then, lady, I sha
The Sergeant smiled at the idea, and said of-"
that as the Rebels had given their regiment " What, Sir!i Wc
the name of the Mounted Robbers, it would your hands on a lady
Iy
F=

85
right to carry out the
ame inferred.
ion was interrupted in
found of an approaching
w moments, the expect-
y in it, as described by
nail negro boy driving,
is companion remained
ggy was nearly opposite
ddenly stepped into the
Bruce seized the horse
Sergeant approached the
uble yourselves, gentle-
in a half-sarcastic tone.
carried me safely by all
kets, and signed by the
order of the Command-
ubtless be fully as antis-
s, indeed"-and now an
ptous look accompanied
"you want what little
me. It is Confederate,
in your eyes !"
ny money, Miss Gates t"
ith a bow. "But you
else with you of more
.l, for instance, for the
ace of the young lady for
as young and beautiful,
not artificial. But in
vered her presence of
ow my name, Sir ; and
I am a lady from one of
is State !"
and I regret very much
egraded as to become a
, Sir-I deny the charge.
s carriage, Sir, and you
y carpet-bag. My pass
in on my way to visit a
the lady, with an indig-
painful for me to have to
lady, under any circum-
ergeant, with a smile.
iss Gates to let me have
is concealed on her
by hooks beneath her
e has dyne that, I shall
isiting her sick relative,
re no such thing about
hern beauty, in a tower-
11 be under the necessity
uld you presume to lay
to search her ?"


f1 3
[

86                          LIFE IN THE SADDLE
" Pardon me ; you did not allow me to town to high officials of the Confederate
close my remarks before you interrupted Government, detailing with great exactness
me ! 1 was about to say that I should be un- the number of men at the post, the various
der the necessity of guarding you back to arms represented, the position of the fortifi-
head-quat terms, where a search by a loyal cations, and even, to a gun, the number of
person of y\our own sex will doubtless dis- cannon mounted, and their calibre.  The
cover wluat I know you carry, as I have number and armament of the gunthboats in
stated-a Hebet mailbag.  And that course the river were also detailed, and -cry fair
ilna also lead to your own imprisolunent."  estimates given of the force in reserve at
'I he firm and quiet tone of the Sergeant Portsmouth, Norfolk, Fortress Monroe, and
had its effect.                          Newport News.
" Will you let ma go if I give up the mail-  "'This has, indeed, been a most important
bqg :'nked the young lady, tears starting seizlire !" said the General.
ftrot her eyes.                            And he marked down a list of names of
" cts ; fr I h:ve no orders to take any- the writers of the p incipal leiters, for imme-
tlhin t but the mail."                   diate arrest and iniprisonment.
"'There it is, then! you hateful nigger.  "if the General pleases, I would like to
worn hipiug Yankee !" cried the lady, sud- make a suggestion!" said the Ser;eant, as
deny lifting a portion of her voluminous he noticed what the General was deiu.
under-clothing, disengaging the bag, and   "Speak out, Sergeant ; the value of your
casting it at his feet.  Oh, it' I was only a services, entitle you to a greater c nsiuera-
man, I would cut your heart out before you tion than  you  ask !" said the General,
should ha\ e it !''                      kindly.
Let me i c ocnuend you to hasten on, lest  " It is, General, that you do not include
3 our  ick relative should (lie before you get old Norileet among the number of your
t her " sai l thoe Serge:it, with a smile, as arrests, or let the rest know that their mail
Iw icked up the lag, and-told Bruce to let has been captured, until they find it out by
the hore u.                             their own means
The lady made no reply, but something    " Your reasons for this suggestion, Ser-
Sciy he a cut se came from her lips as she geant ?"
drove en.                                 "Because, Sir; I have go' a ' ithful spy
upon every Inovement of old Nortieet, who
CIIAPTEIt xvIII.              is at the head of the whole Scce sion gang
With the Iteh  mail thus easily secured, in this place. If kept free from nirest, he
('lit'rd and Iii re returned to their horses, will not know  that we are awaic of his
an taking the same 'circuitous and unusual treachery, and we can detectt all that he does.
route by t\ ich they come, thtus avoiding all If another mail is made up, it will go through
guards and any chance of being observed by his hands, and I will get it as easily as I did
b cession spies-as they would have been this !"
hae thty talhn the usual route to town-they  " I think the Sergeant ha- 'e'r'ect idea
cltc ceded in returning to camp in a few in the matter, General !" said the young and
heis, \a without their absence being even gallant Adjutant-General, Major Foster.
noticed. 'Ihe only person in the camp of  " Well, I do not know but he has. You
thu Rifles who had known of their ex- will omit Norfleet's name from the arrests at
l edition and its oiject was the Colonel, to present, but a strict watch must be kept upon
whom Clifford had imparted the knowledge him 1" said the General.  " Let the other
which he had gained iron Bruce, and who arrests be made at once, and the men kept in
ha'l odered hitm to secure the mail.   close confinement, and iio comiuniiication
'The Sergeant had a private interview with allowed theum with outsiders, under any cir-
the C''lon .as son as lie returned ; anti; cumstances !,
wlien the latter examtiined'. the super: eriptions  "By the way, where is the Ih0 I1 mail-
of the hundred au-Il mre letters, ad several( carlier-what did 1o (o witlh him -asked
bulky parcels contaied in the bag, he (Ie- the General of the'Sergeant.
cieti to ha (' the Sergeant go at once with him  " It 51 as not a him, mut a she, with your
and tl:e bae to t he quters of' the Conuiand- pass upon her person, General ; and i i I only
ing-Genci a.                            had orders to seize the mail, I let the female
In a short time the ('olonel and the Ser- go !" reilied Clitford.
geant weic at lead-ttuarlelrs. tiundt. aidle by   " A pe'ss from me, Sergeant? Wh' female
the Amljutant-Cmdeinr the (itt  l went at was it :"  .
once into an exaininetion o the 'ettet S Ci-  " A Miss Gates, Sir-: passed by yonr order,
tamed in the ietel ha:;.               tt toee ia sick sister, living near tl e Isle of
Some of them 55erg' of gr'at inorati'nc'l e, Wight Court House !"
written by pretcitded Lioninma in tki   " The young Jezebel I Why, she came to

"F
y
fi1
t'a
S f e&amp;
} F i
3

f
E'1
f

I-

I!
I4

LIFE IN TUE SADDLE.
me in tears yesterday morning, professing those who were not arrested that night, at
her love for the Union, and asking, as a favor, the house of Mr. Nortleet.
to visit her sick sister just outside our lines.  The question among them all was, What
i felt so much sympathy for her, that I even had caused the arrest of their friends?
offered her an cort, but with many thanks  One suggested that the mail which had
she declined it. I do not wonder at it now. been captured that morning might have led
Kindness is thrown away upon these mis- to it, as nearly every one who had been ar-
guided fanatics !"                       rested had written letters that were with it.
"If it is not too bold in me, General, I  But Mr. Norileetscouted at that idea.
would beg leave to suggest, that orders be  "If it had been so,. I would have been
given to search her very closely, when she among the first to be arrested !" ho said ;
attempts to enter our lines again, as she can " for, had two letters in the mail-one to
do upon your pass. She may try to carry President Jeff Davis, and the other to my
the mail both ways !"                    nephew in tharmy--eithier of which were
" True. biie shall be arrested and con- out-and out Secesh. No, gcullenien; Laura
ducted to my quarters, if she makes her ap- Gates is too smart a girl to be caught in car-
pearance again.  Sergeant, we are again ring anything.   Tb ere is something else
indebted to your intelligence and zeal, for ailoat which has made the General suspi-
important service. Rest assured, that your cious-somnethmiu  that I can't see into yet.
good conduct shall be heard of at W ash- If our mail ba.i been discovered, we who
ington !"                                wrote would have been charged with it at
And the interview was over,            once, and most likely sent beyond the Yankee
--                    lines. I'd righty soon take myself there, if
CHAPTER XIX.                 I thought they had my letters, even making
There was consternation on many a face as much money as I am from the invading
in Sutloik that night., And many a sneak- cusses
ing Rebel went trembling to his bed, fearimg  "Then perhaps our meetings have been
lest his arrest would be the next to be made. betrayed by some traitor in our secrets!' said
For of all the ruident citizens of the town, another person.  "Every man whom they
allowed to remain in peace and comfort, have taken was with us at our last meeting
their persons ani property respected, and over the drugstore !"
ever guarded by our troops, not more than  "It may be so. God help the traitor, if we
three or four hnilies were really and lion- ind one among us ! I for one would not give
estly true to the Union cause. 'lhe rest hin time to say his prayers .' said Nor eet,
were sneaking spies and traitors, ever ready bitterly. "I hope that this suspicion at least
to aid the Rebel cause, to betray any secret may not be well-foumded. For if we can
which came ito lier posm:eeion, and often only hold together, and keep up our spy and
exulting in our very faces when we brought signal operations until Longstreet makes his
back dead or wounded men from our expedi- promised descent, every Yankee that is here
tions to the Rebel lunes,                will be bagged or put under ground, and we
And yet many .of these wretches were will be masters of our own, once more.!"
all wed, without license or restraint, to trade  "Have you any idea when he will come?"
with our men, to fatten off our bounty, to asked another Secessionist, whose two beau-
board our officers and their families, and to tiful dau ghters were used as a trap to lure
live better than they ever did before the susceptible young officers into their company,
Rebellion broke out. An open trade was where "movements" might be pumped out
even kept up by the proprietors of the prin- of them by cautious maneuvering.
cipal drugstore tinhe place for Confederate  "Oh yes," replied Norfiect.  It will be
money, tacy paying out fifty cents on the the last of the winter or early in the spring
dollar for it in goods. or forty in greenbacks before lie can move this way ; but when he
at all tims. These are facts too patent for does come, he will come suddenly and with
denial-tets known to hundreds of officers such force, that they can neither resist him
and thousands of men in the Federal Army. nor get away from him. The plan is already
This consternation was created by the sud- arranged ; our last mail carried him state-
den arrest 01' some thirty prominent citizens, ments of every position held here by the
whose letters in the captured mail had be- Yankees, their force, arms, etc., and a map of
trayed their villainy., Their arrest was fol- every fortification and even every regimental
lowed by a close confinement and a complete cam about the place I"
isolation from  their families and acquaint-  "Well, I wish he was here already !" said
ances; amid no reason was given them for another. "This living with the dread of a
their arrests. Their own consciences were rope about one's neck may be pleasant to
left to discover that cause.             some; but I'll be cursed if it is to me !
There was a secret meeting of a few of Every nigger we've got is a spy uppa us.


'il
s

88                          LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
We have to keep as close-mouthed about judge from the frequency of their visits there.
matters when they're about, as if the Provost- Meet one of them riding or strolling that
Marshal was listening near by in his own way of a moonlight-evening, and askhim
person I"                               where he was bound.
" Well, when Longstreet comes we'll have  " Oh, to Head-quarters 1" would be the in-
them where they ought to be !" said Norfleet. variable reply.
"We'll hear no more of freedom from their  To Love's head-quarters, of course ; and,
thick lips, then.  Here am I, that owned in the classic language of Poe, the poet,
help enough before the Yankees came, now  "nowhere else !"
obiged to hire and pay for it. But I'll get it For in that little red house dwelt the two
all back when he comes ; for what I don't siren daughters of the rabid Secessionist
own, 111 confiscate and send off where they'll who had offered to spirit away Elise the oc-
bring a round price. I've got two of Bar- toroon and her mother, for old Nortleet.
rett s women that I'd like to own; but I sup-  They were really pretty, rather more intel'
pose 11 have to turn them over to him ligent than most of the Southern women to
again. They're so near white, mother and be met in that one-horse place, and just
daughter, that they'd be worth five thousand coquettish enough to fascinate young men
apiece in the New Orleans market. The who hhd no way to kill camplifo except the
} renchmen down there would go crazy after routine of drill and dress-parade ; for, with
the youngest !"                          the exception of the cavalry, who were
"If I were you, I'd get them off my hands almost always on the scout or picket, the
before anybody came to interfere with my troops, for months at a time, made no move-
plans I" said the man with the decoy-daugh- ment there.
terms.                                     Whether any of them ever were really in
"I'd like to, well enough ; but I hardly love, is best known to the few of them yet
know how to do it !" said the old wretch.  left-for many have since gone down bravely
"I can put you in the way 1" said the first in battle under Foster, Burnside, Hooker,
speaker. "'I here's Dashiell at the mill, Meade, and Grant; but it they were, they
who is going to ship off' his hands to Rich- were grossly deceived if they believed their
mond next week. If you could get them love returned-tor two more arrant Seces-
over the lines to his house, they could be got sionists never lived than those two girls, used
off with his batch, and no one but ourselves as decoys and spies by their rascally father,
be the wiser for it !"                   who was about as open in his Rebel views as
"By Jove ! it is a good plan, and well old Nortleet hiuiself-
thought of. I'd try it, if I thought I could  We will glance into the "Red House" just
carry it through."                      for a moment to see how they maneuvro
"  hat will you give me to do it.   I there.
reckon I can manage it. Sonie of the officers  The young ladies are dressed exceedingly
are right sweet after my girls, and I can well, far better than any others around Suf-
manage, through them, to get a pass for my- folk. This cau easily be accounted for, when
sell and company almost any time 1"      we inform the readers that their admirers
"I'll give you one quarter of the profits !" know that it is impossible for citizens to pur-
said Nortieet, alter a moment's pause.   chase articles of elegance and luxury in Suf-
"Say one third, and 1 am your man 1" re- folk, and that such things now must come
plied the other.                         from a Northern market; for they have often
"Well, you may try it. If you succeed, heard the fair girls mourn over that state of
one third of the profits are to be yours ; but things. and almost weep when they said,
if you fail, you are not to expose me in the "they had nothing to wear".
matter, but to take all the m esponsibility on  What generous'iieart could look upon such
yourself!"                              lovely forms, and doom them to an Eve-like
"Yes; I agree to that !'              lack of silk, lace, and do lame, when a few
"'Very well, then ; it is a bargain. And dollars' worth of such articles could so
now I think we had better disperse ; for it is easily be sent out in the frequent boxes re-
getting late, and our meetings may be ceived by ofllcers and never examined,
watched !"                               though the examination of a private's box
was always thorough, and confiscation sure
CHAPTER XX.                 to follow, if it contained a contraband article!
The little "Red House" in Suffolk, or .Especially when a loving sigh, a look of
rather in the suburbs of that miserable Sc- gratitude, or even perhaps a burning kiss
Cession-hole, used to be about as well known from lips as rosy as a budding rose itself, and
to the "fast young officers" of the various thrice as full of honey, would be the felicitous
commands at that post as their own quarters reward.
-oomewhat better to some of them, one would  in the little sitting-room, its windows open

K1
I i

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
that the fragrant breath of honey-iuckles lost, and thousands of brave men sacrifced,
and roses may be wafted in on the evening- while generals have wondered how on earth
breeze, the young ladies are seated in the the enemy could have been Informed of their
presence of some half a dozen young officers, movements.
conversing on such topics as chance may            CHAPTER      I.
brim up.
If it happens to be war, they are so full of  One morning, not over a week or ten da
sympathy for the poor soldiers, so regretful after his return from his North Carolina  p,
that war ever came upon the country, so the Colonel of Sergeant Clifford's regiment
hopeful that peace will soon return again, sent for hum.
that their admuirers could not be brought to "Sergeaut," said he, "our stock of oats Is
believe that-in their hearts burned a hatred gettinglow, and a mixture of corn in the for-
agnst the North and Northern men, too age-ration would keep our horses up well.
bitter for utterance.                   Do you know where we can find any quan.
They are accomplished in the art of de- tity of it, within a day's drive or less, to
colt; and there is not one of the half-dozen camp ?"
young men now with them, but believes him- "Yes, Colonel. The father ofathat Major
self really the favorite of one or other of the Barrett, whom Dolan and Bruce captured the
sisters.                                other day, has at least twenty, and probably
A whispered word, or a gentle pressure of thirty wagon-loads in his cribs., It is but a
the hand, or a look borne with one of the short half-day's drive to his place."
softest of sighs, has assured him of this more  "He has pretended to be neutral-has he
than once.                              notf"
Of course he can ask or expect no more,  "Yes, Sir, and it was only pretence. His
when others are present, and a solitary in- concealment of his Rebel son, and his angry
terview is seldom to be had,except when some curses at the men who took him, show how
special secret is to be found out; and then, his heart goes. A more bitter Secessionist.
the Lord only knows what occurs I for we are does not live this side of Richmond."
not supposed to be present at secret inter-  "Well, we need corn, and he can supply it.
views.                                  I will order twelve wagons to be got ready,
Yet, not a day or an evening passes with- and you can go with twenty men as an escort.
out finding gilt buttons and shoulder-straps Throw out an advance far in your front; tell
dancing attendance upon these fairies of the the picket-reserve where you are going, so
"Red  house ; and when they have departed, that they can help you if a chance Rebel
then all the news that has been gathered is scout should be out and fall in with you. Give
at once imparted to the Rebel father for the old planter the usual receipt for his corn,
transmission to the Confederates, if it is of payable by the United States after the war,
sufficient importance.                  if he gives undoubted proof of his loyalty.
Thus many a thoughtless young officer has  "Yes, Sir I When shall we start?
said that he was sorry lie should be absent "As soon as you can saddle up. I will
for three or four days. and could not see the make out the necessary pass for you and the
object of his admiration-I will not say love, train."
for it is too holy a feeling to be classed with An hour later, and the train of twelve
either passion, frendship, or admiration-and empty wagons, each drawn by four good
that object feeling so bad (?) at the thought of horses, was on its way over the muddy Nan-
the temporary separation, has tearfully asked semond, escorted by twenty picked men of
questions, and thereby very cunningly found the Rifles, under the charge o Clifford.
out that hi egiment or brigade is ordered to As the roads were dry and fine, the teams
march toWard the enemy's (Rebel) lines at and escort went most of the way at a trot;
sunset, or at daybreak in the morning.  and it was not yet noon when they turned of
And, with a promise on her kiss-laden lips the main road into the lane that led to Mr.
not to say a word about it, and a request for Barrett's house.
him to be very, very careful, and for her sake The housq was found deserted by its white
not to rashly expose himself, they have part- inmates. Mr. Barrett had preferred leaving
ed. He to go to his duty, dreaming that he for the Rebel lines, to staying there after his
is beloved by the wily enchantress; she to conduct had endangered his position, as he
hasten to impart the news, so that it can be deemed it had.
sent at once to the Rebel forces, to enable  He had locked up the dwelling-part of his
them to avoid a battle if so desired, or to pre- house, and only left two old negroes-a man
pare for it on vantage-ground of their own and a woman--to take care of the place,
choosing.                              leaving them provisions for their sustenance
Thus many an important movement has in their own quarters.
been frustrated, many valuable chances been He had carried off the most of his horse

" .

1


* .
4&amp;                          L1FE IN TUB SADDLE.                                                            '4
r.nd cattle; but his sheep and hogs ran loose  "BelIe," said he to the eldeat, "I wpaant  l.         _
Sover the deserted plantation. His corn, too, some chloroform, and you mis get it for
was lest in the cribs, and thousands of bushels me.'
of we ort )otatt'es lay undug in the fields.  "Chloroform, father ? What do you want
The . rgeant had the coin loaded hito the that for Y Do you want to sleep till the cruel
v aon, wxith all jpo itle spied; for he lid war is over'?' asked Clara, the youngest, a
not know but that a Rebel torce might be on voluptuous girl of sweet seventeen, the very                  ,
it way also, to secure so much valuable for- ideal of Byron's Dudu.
agV; and hi13 force was small to guaid so large  ' No matter what I want it for. I must
a train, and do atny fighting outside of it.  have k, and your sister mustbe smart enough
It did not take very long to load up the to get it for me."                      jf"
wagons-for stout and willing hands make    -How am I to do it, father ?" asked Isa-
quick work-aud ore another bour had passed bella.-
She was on his way back to the Federal lines.  "Muffle up your head, and have a dreadful
And none too soon, for he hal only just toothache--a toothache that will drive youth"
ga nVithin si.ht of the reserve-pitket fore, tuad. without some one of your dozen or so          ;' jY
;         L~aving p)assait the two outside picket-guard, of devoted lovers has the kaudness to get you                                              - 'ii/
when his small rearguard, cf a corporal some clioroforut, said Mr. Burgo.
and six men, came daswing in at full speed,  "Yes; you can do that easy, Sis," said
with the in formation that a Rebel cavalry- Clara. "ittub a little cologne inmo your eyes,
force, of at least two squadrons, was but a to make them red, and the you'll look as it
hiort distance in their rer.           you'd been crying. It will be so interesting
It a moltent, the full squadron of reserve- to be sick, too: the dlear fellows will bring
picke-  was mttmouited, and. under the gallant you in lots of preserves, brandy-peaches, and
Captain Fairgraves, forumes ready to meet the nice things out of the stores of their Sanitary
graybacks.                               Ctimmmision. 1 ve a great mind to get sick  r    /V
di au n up to iueet thetm, and then they haled, thing oT that sort, just to see how good they
(m l i h Rblutlthey w        fre                                      thal--hvoaltl  i o  eeo  en-y
.1 P to consider whether it would ac wise to will it !"                                                        /
iaack or not.                              'Whten do you wait this chloroform,
apt'tiin FI'iirgraves gaive them little time father " asked lsaulla.
.m 1- iiettint. Joined by Clifford ant his  " iilt away. 111 probably use it to-night
uts. he cave the order to charge, taud, lea-d  if I eanl get it, for it looks is if it would be!f
i~  sii- inii hinselh went tlhundtring for- dark and stotuy ; and itf it iy, I can carry a\
i   1 un the astonished tebs.      eut a plait that Iliave ont hanid, whticih will
b1,yG did niot wait to receive his uinslaught ; makii  me at least a cool couple of thousand     '
ut t.iin a haitiles volley from their 1ong- dotO uo s.ft              dwee
1 - Eili ! riles ,they turned and lied t  Ien you'give us some of it if we get
it  tnowt  a mtee trial of speed, for mile :  " Yes. a hundred apiece. Now be smart.
lr te lttels, though nearly or (,uitcdtuble will you y''                         i                        A-h t
)m.it er of their pursuers.ntiever turned to  ' Yes, indeed, father. ill get the chlorto-  t-
k-1st. They were in a panic. and each mai form if I have to make love to one of their
d lett nly on saving himself.    doctors. Ah, there comes young   alston.
C ,.ti a ii..pave tollo wed as far a he lie s soft enough to believe anything. and in 0-
ii: eti to go. wV without orders, beyond his picket- love  with tme besides :'- cried Isabella.  ;t
line, and captured about a dozen of the poor- -- Clara, I'm going to my rootm to ix )up.
est mlounted Re~tbels ;but the rest got away, Tell imt, when he comec:, in, thatr I ami al-  ;
when lie drew rein and turned his men back most crazy with the toothache. Father, you  -
ton ard their station.                   clear out, or I shall not be able to keep a                           ,
Giving his prisoners into the charge of the straight face on when I come to the acting.'
tergcaitu, with a report of the attair for the And Isabella hurried out of the root just in
Colonel, the Captain then sent him in with time to escape being seen by youug Balston,
his train. which, to a cavalry-regimentgetting as she called hint--a juvenile lieutenat , in
short of feed, was of great value.       some iantry-regiment, as his looks and his
-                    uniform told.
CIllAPTER XXII.                "How are you, Miss Clara ?" he said, in a                                                  __
Another scene in the red house.   Mr. drawling tone, as he came in, brushed a spot'-
Burge, the father of the two fair decoys whtom  of dust lrom one of his boots with his hand-                                       -
we have before spoken of, entered the sitting- keichiet, and took a seat. 'Where is your
room when they were alone, just before the lovely 'sister, MIss Belle ?'"
hour when they usually began to expect their  " p in her room, Mr. Ralston, almost dead
eenintg-visitow.                        with the toothache. ~Se ha~s done nothing  -

114
(ti
},
f-i


tLlFE IN~ THE~ SADDLE.
but mourn and cry all day. 'Now that moaned poor Isabella. "I
you have come, it may be of some relief to this way, the pain is So) great
her, for I know she thinks all the world of  "I will go for it instantly
you."                                   tenant. "Go and lie right
The dear poor girl !  I must see her; be back in less than half an
positively, I must see her."            hurried off, taking "a double
"If I can 'only get her to come down, I readily now than he would
will. But she looks such a fright with her march or on drll.
headI all tied up, and her eyes red with cry.  "Oh, didn't I act that u
. so much."                           cried the afflicted girl whe
Try.Tell her that it is only methat-andshad got out of hearing. "o
cerc -and you know I love her to distrac- out of breath in his hurry.
lion."                                  his chloroform now, sure en
Well,.I will try to persuade her to come know what he wants to do w
down. Wait here a few nmoments." And "Most likely to put s
*Clara went out of the room.                                                                                   sleep," said Clara. " No
The Lieuten nt, meantime, took out a pock- wants it for: one thing is ce
et-comb and a small looki-bg-glass from his it for the benefit of the Con
pocket, and arranged his delicate mustache a spooney that Balston is!
and well-oiled hair in a little m'ore atisfac- smart as one-half the private
tory style. .i~e had but just done tiad   "Wlwa       ol   o
restored the comb and glass to his pocket, only son of a Yankee Mem
when in came 1poor Miss Belle, leaning on That is enough for him to
the arm of her sister, and admirably made up What need has he of brains
4 +for the occasiOn.                                                                                                                             and a big father.  ie ne
Her head was bound up with a huge towel, friends. I shouldn't wonde
her eye were red. as if she had been weep- a colonel before long, lie t
ing for hours, and " lily-white", properly put day that he expected prot
ou, made all of her face that was visible of a wanted me to marry him
most interesting paleness.               hard work to put him oil'
But her magnticent hair, in negligent until I could  now how m
curls, tll down upoi her white nck nd love him. When he bring
shoulders, all too much exposed for any pas- form I shall have to give
bionate man's peace of mind, by a very low- hope. How do you and
necked dress. I-cr rounded arms were hare on ?'
above the elbow, and her bewitching little  "Oh, I've quarreled with
loot was cased in a number two slipper, to go down-town tihe othec
which, with a very fair lproportioin of her was afraid I could not get
neatly-turned ankle, she took good care to guards were put on, and'1 a
expose as she threw herself languidly on the .countersign. He first exc
i                                                                                                      soia. moaning with the pain of her dreadful said it was against positive
toothache. to a citizen. I insisted that
"Oh ! dear Miss Belle, I am so sorry for zen, belonged almost as mu
you, positively, I am so sorry for you that I be did, etc., etc. ; but it wa
don't know what to say to you. Positively, I wouldn't give it to me; ,
don't!"                                 called him a mean. good
"Oh! I shall diedI I shall die !" moaned old thing, and told hi
Miss Isabella, piteously, putting her cambric took that hard, and tried to
hands, upon which glittered, at least, a dozen the room, crying. When
brilliant rings.                         was one."
"What can be done for you? Oh   Iwish    " What did you want th
I could take it and sutler for you!  Posi- tad for, when you know yo
lively, I do !' cried the warm-hearted Lieu- a dozen of shoulder--atraps
tenant.                                  home."
Oh ! if I only had some chloroform.     "1 didn't want it for myse
Father tried to get me some, and couldn't," ed it."
said the sutffering girl, piteously.       'Well, did you get It for
" Chloroform ! I can get oceans of it 'rom  "Yes. Ball came in ab-
our hoapital-steward. fle used to go to just loving enough to ask fo
school with me," said the [Lieutenau, hiur. Lima a half-dozen of them
" h!if you do, it may save my life 1"  "I'm sorry you quarreled

I

48
cannot live long
t. '
said the Lieu-
Iowa, and I will
hour." And he
-quick" far more
have done on a
p to perfectionR1"
the Lieutenant
tell run himself
Father will have
ongh. I'd like to
ith it."
omei sentmnel to
matter what he
rtain, he will use
ederacy. What
lie isn't half a
es under him."
ipect. He is the
her of Congress.
get along with.
? lie has money
er will lack for
r if he was made
old inc the other
notion, when he
so much. I had
ifor a tew weeks,
uche I really did
s me the chloro-
him a little more
young Dean get
him. 1 wanted
r afternoon, and
back before the
sked him for the
;sOd himself, and
orders to give it
I was mnot a citi-
ch to the Armysas
.s of no use.  Ie
I got mad, and
for-nothing, ugly
hated him. -te
mike up , but he
tersign, and I left
cane back, he
e countersign so
u could have got
to see you safe
lf. Father want.
him, after all r
ut half tight, and
r a kiss. I sold
for the counter-
wellh Dean. Ho

'   ,.

z


f!!
4t

44                           LIFE IN' TIIE SADDLE.
know s o iniucI of ua hit is goirt on at head- '(lrifting nights when it is almost inpossibY
q         Iiar 1 t o nyi an iutportant secret for men to move abroad ; when the sticks
out (" if'i.                              mud is almost knee deep, when the rah
O1t. 1)11r ini ha   again.  lie is too don't drop. out pours: when the senth
mflici      a ti ",y  av  long. 1 know  who have to stand on ex posed posts, shiv"
Vt, i:.!a iim mtt t retIrace3 when I want under their India-rubber blahets, and tr
n!1. A , 11 :1 a little sorrowful note their best to keep their powder dry, wi
wilt h ii him t. toy Let i an hour. But they count the minutes whi'h tinke
lock  titu   Uo  y our tchlorotori; the the long, long hours before their relief c(n,
p0 4r 1   1 he it a ui mttin hiunself almost to around. Such a night as a true scout lore
de-t:                                    for he knows lie can creep u) t), y, Over an
O  Yen, m)V fir the toothache once more. into the en toy's line on such a night, Wi,
0 misery .   nt hut [! Oh, fa me, Clara, little fear of being seen or heard , nd t
don  t  re  I wni to hint . It I faint, you also knows that " such a blessed rain vi;l
know, te Ii i te while you are gone afler wash out all tracks that lie may iak:ie, aid
Water                                     not leave his trail for pursuers to follow.
The t)r Lieutetmatit was literally out of  And this was the night which Mr. Bturg
breathoi~t i -' c:iie in.                had selected lot carrying out his work, which
Otte   0ar. Ir. Itldtoii, I an so glad youve he had bargained to do for Mr. Norfleet--
come,   ai Cit     l)o stay by sister while that of carrying off Elise and her mother, so
1 tun iir mini ic it x\4titer  he poor dear that they could be sent, to a Southern marke'
hac fahne I.  Ithic told her head"; I'll be for sale. For he knew that if he could get
back in     m   .iitt:,                   tbcm to the Nansemond Itiver, bit a little
rb   i -eitit   t t t. nt. leaving thi almost Way of, where there were plenty of small
bucatlttuLite     x ttithtait beautiful head boats, he could easily, on such a night, pass
r nt nnit .n:it  The hi psa ent'Ieyesunseen by all guards do «n the river to th
no1.tmildblame htnit he did ranchh on wx hielh lay the mill of the Dasth1
try to lie.,.,1,( 1 toot with one, but with before spoken of; a about to remove his hanli
counth..      (',i iuani: her his dear blessed tutlh.
aue- et.tic Lint.                         To go up this would be easy; for it wasle
At  t        miIt ' n  to, just as Clara returu- I youd the  eria nil line.;, and out of the usual
et   iiii' « ne tiI i ked if he -had brrtntht route of ourt' -outs. The only danger was in
the cli'       ut alipprearingto knom tutmeetmng with time patrol on the street, betwer,
hem           .iitglh' back io lite aill tis thehousend river ;and onsuch a nig.
t was not at all likely that any patrol weue,
[I s     r   byxw b+ i xhm'Iiling her a while bot- lhe very watchh'
t e  tii i     amei t iieit. whtieli lie had pt o-  Norileet and another stout Secessionist had
cih calitI       hopt tlihtil-Steyward. And I agreed to aid himt in getting into the boat;
any                       mema::t i;i muii i  itieritltoI  I das he  had  git the countersign, and  knew
the route well, he had not much fear of fail'
fir  it i  .   a'tIt ni - m iin  the  hospital-  urc.
stoi  h, .,t  ttr. ciii 5  di)iler ; and a dis-  So, at least, lie expressed himself, when, at
COVCIit   ti a   imaer woulu be a court- about eleven o'clock at night, he stood with
mart 10   itNorileet and the other Rebel assislatit in a
s h   ,   umiivx r. nev r tell, detr Mr. Bil- smal room, whiel joined that where Elise
Stot  - ut: .   l x1 Itt er, nix eriorget you. and her mother slept.
ott I I itliti' adti it itaketls me feel  They had been purposely placed in that
Ss iit: it t ti  e'loigid to you. 1 will room by Nortleet, that day, because it was at
go t~l ir  : a1 use the chlra m It  ,ttniow, and I a distance from any other occupied part of
0 it II ixii ('Cl\ II te to si, te, p   i iair, IIthe house : he taking their former room ts a
sldt'i' 1; iI ~ .iial. wr ut stay to tea, of storeroom, he sail, because it was  n handy to
cuat u   ;e I'!:it   'll :xnI 'iitts: xiou until 1 the kitchen. Nearly over the bed where the
leei :,                 u.two women lay w'is a sm-alt Window, wli+h
t om'e. and use the opened out on the hall, kept open for ventils.
mr iitt. I 1it ii nii poitix'el' wr'etcled tion.
u.ti 1 kili that y o ate better:  Go, dciar  Approaching this window noiselessly, and ,
ltetl1 2     (. at i  y aiti +iitie reliee+ed, come looking in upon the two inmates, by a ven
to  tot emnio:e, ad mtiake tue positively dim light, which he only showed afterhe was
happy t; ing inc   .:-                   satisfied, by their breathing, that they were
both asleep, Burge commenced his opera-
TheT         XX1I.            tions, with a care and skill which showed a
The niait dit iena out -ark ail stormy, its knowledge of if not an experience in rascal-
Mr. Bul;e atiucaeipais. One of those soggy, it.

LIFE IN TlE SADDLE.                              46
He saturated a sponge with the liquid whether they were confinedin the dark room
chloroform, fastened it to a long' stick, and where they were., She found the door by
then carefully held it close to the nostrils, feeling, and soon discovered that it was fbst-
first of Elise, and then to those of tier another. ened on the outside.
Again and a1gin ihe saturated the sponge, un-  " Oh ! mother, mother ! what can this
til he was satistied that they were both in a mean?" she asked. " We must be in some
deatl-like sleep, from which it would be diffi- prison.  I have seen ito dark room like this
cult, in truth, impossible, to waken them, un- in Mr. Norfieet's house ; and we are both wet,
til the eifCet f the drug had worn away.  too, as if we had been out in the rain !"
"Nov for the boat." ie said to his con-  " We have been there, or in some river,
onions, as he entered the room, and raised child ; for there isn't a dry thread of clothes
sise in his brawny arms.                on me ! Yet, how could that have been, and
The other mauiraised the mother, and while we never wake up ? I believe we is bewitch-
Nortleet held the light, they moved noiseless- ed, child, that I do !"
ly out of the house. Once outside, the light  "No, mother.  There is something worse
I was extinguished ; and knowing, as they did, than witchery in this," said Ebse. "I have
every fof of the way, and where, every sen- read in some of the bioks which Miss Delia
. tine! wa posteI, they soonreached the river used to let me have. about people being
v ithoitut aiv interruption,           drugged into insetnibility for vile purposes,
Here a liLit skit, already selected and put by wicked men
t in goo 1 ir - yBurge, was found, and the  "Druggel, child? What is that ?"
two wom:'lta iinthe bottom of it.     "Some kind of drug given them to put
t wuro 'ire again applied the chloroformto them into a sleep from which they cannot
his viclm ,ibr lhe wished to be sure that no wake for hours. That meet have been done
noise would he maset while hle rifted down to us, for my head feels very strangely!"
l past the g.tiiats, and then ie and his com-  " Mine aches as it it- beets ounded with a
got     inio the boat, and prepared to shove stone.  Oh, the Laird only knows what will
ot,                                      become of us. I thought we was done free
'  When wxl you be back ?" asked Nor- forever, and that you would he a sure lady
fleet,                                   one of these days. And now, we.don't know
"To       a w  night.  We -will creep where we are, or what i going to become of
through tue lines and swim the river just us! It is so dark here, yet I know it must be
after (ark. lye ~no fear but that we can get daylight; for I've heard chickens a crowin'
in easy enough, when we are by ourselves !" and ducks a quacking this long while !"
said Burge.                                " Yes; I have heard them also, mother.
" Weli, he sure and take a receipt for the But hark ! I hear footsteps. I will make
women from )shiell, and tell him to get as a noise, and see if we cannot find out where
good a pri--e for them as he can. lie can we are !"
send the ni, niy by the North Carolina     And groping her way to the door again,
- route t a. a1pondent in Norfolk-he she knocked as hard as she could against it,
knows wit) "                             with her closed hands.
"Yes ; thit will be all right ! Dashiell is  " What is wanting in there ?" cried a gruff'
the riitsit.t  Good night :"            voice, a moment after--by his accent, evi-
And the boat was oil' the next moment in dently a white man.
the pietlty itiness, bearing the two help-  "Please, Sir, we want to get out of here, or,
l s womei away once more into servitude,  at least, to know where we are !"
"Don't trouble yourselves about that. You
(lAPTER XXIV.               are where good care will be taken of you;
 The a om of poor Elise and her mother, and no blastedxneddling Yankehs be around
When thiJy ' 'kk to consciousnsCs, may better to trouble you !" said thie person outside.
be imnaune than described. Where they   " But, Sir, we are very wet and cold. My
were. trie: knew not. They were in a snal, mother is subject to Theumatie spells, and
chlue rout ; their clothes wet through to the will be very ill:"
a -kitn-liwV, thy hid not know ; for the vii-  " Well, ill see to that. I'll send a woman
lai. BrUue, ulid kept thiemunderthie ainfluenee up to you with somse dry duds and something
"lf theih'troform all the time, until lie had warm to take.  Butmind you ! no questions,
thn 'mel iv housed under the roof of Mr. for she'll answer none. If you want good
)sliiel1. who, being a bitter Secessionist, treatment, you must behave well-understand
very readily undertook their custody to keep that. If you cut up with nme, you'll get cut
thin out of the hands of the hated Unionists. in about as rough a fashion as you'll want to
itisim;   nIthe straw pallet on which she live through
found liers 'IfElise, after finding that her  "Will you not at least, Sir, please to tell u
tuother wts with her, endeavored to learn what you mean to do with us :'

Ii

1- e
I

S tF

S4

I


46

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.

ir

LIFE IN THE SADDL.

'9

* Yes, if it will be any comfort to you. of Sergeant Cliaora, his face reddened wilh
Take you to a healthier climate, where fig- excitement, and his eyes flashing as they
gers are worth more than they are here, and only did when he was thoroughly angry.
no Yankees near by to kidnap them away    "Why, what is the matter now, George'
from their mnsers.  Now be quiet, and you asked the  Sergeant.  "Somebody sto t
shall be attended to before long 1"     another horse-blanket or a halter frs
The man said no more, but walked away you 2"
with a heavy step.  And poor Elise did not  "I only wish it was that, and ever; thiL
feel like asking any more questions  Her else in the world that I had, instead of wig,
heart sunk wearily down into the darkest it is " cried the young man, pres.sing if,
depths of despair.                      hand against his hot forehead.
" Mother, we are doomed back into slavery  " Speak out, man, and tell mue what is th
aga n !" she noaned as she sunk down upon matter! You are not used to dealing i;
the straw-pallet by her mothers side.  riddles with me !
"I don't caretfor myself-I'm getting old,  "Why, poor Elise and her mother an
and shalt not last long !" said the mother, gone-God only knows where!I'
weeping.  UBut for you, poor child-for you  "Gone from  orfleet's Y"
that has been brought up so tender like, and  "Yes, and the infernal old curse pretends
never seen hard work-it is too cruel, too that he don't know where. Says that thet
cruel !  When we was free too, and the went to bed as usual at night, and ho coufl
white folks all seemed to be such good friends not find them in the morning ! I told bin
to us. That.good Mr. Bruce, I wonder where that he did know where they were! lie
he is now. It he only knew were we was, he said he didn't, and I told him he lied. U$
would soon tree us again !"             gave me some of his lip, and I smacked
"Yes, m other ; I know he would.  He is his face for it! He threatened to report nee,
brave, an l nole, and good! Yet now 1 tear and I told him to report and be darned. Ii
that we shall ne er see him again !"  thrash the life out of him if he don't find
"Oh yes; 'we will. When he finds we
are gone from where he le fus,  o and his  "Have you inquired around town ?"
friend will InkBuaeup-sec if they don't !"  o"Yes-all over it, and neither sign nor
"I pray the Lord they will. But hark, token can I find of them. 'Ihey are either
there is some one coming-perhaps it is the hidden and confined in some place in town,
woman the man said that he would send with or he has got them in some way beyond our
dry clothes !"                          lines, for they would never have left of their
i proved to be so ; for, in a minute more, own free wil . I had already written to in
the door Was unlocked, and a black woman, tIluential friends to assist in getting an order
with a lot of coarse garments hanging over from the War Department, to permit thea
one arm and holding a candle in the other to be sent North. And I was going to send
hand, came in. She was followed by another them to my own family, to have them taken
one of the same color, with a pitcher of hot care of, until I could do better for them!"
drink and a large platter of corn bread and  "Did they know of your intention :'
fried bacon.                              "Yes, and more grateful beings never
A maim, white and rather elderly, looking lived; for they knew, if once they got Norta
like an overseer, rough in his dress an they would be free from all peril of slaver
features, stood at the door while it was open, forever "
and when the woman put the clothes and    "Then it is not likely that they could hate
light and the food down, lie said ;     gone away of their own free will
There's sonc dry duds for you, and some-  "No, never! 'They have been taken by
thing to (at and drink. Put the clothes on, force I"
and give the od woman there your wet ones " It would be next to impossible for any
to have dried. No questions now, but do as one to take persons forcibly past our lin"
iou are  d. ITd  wait outside here till she without they wished to go, and then a p1'
rea y toconie out !''and the countersign would be necessar.
One oi te women now went out, and lie " I know it. and for that reason 1 tIdim
slockedthe dour again, while Elise and her that they must yet be concealed in tan
mother hastened to exchange their wet clothes somewhere. What to do I know not; bi:
for the diay ones brought,             find them I must, or I shall never be s orth
CIIAP1                 a Continental cent to the service !"
CHAP  lt XXV.        -      "I will aid you in every way that is in ini
"By thehly frog of the Great Dismal power, George !"
Swamp, somebody will see dead Secesh in  "I know you will. I will ride down-t a
Suffolk, before I as twenty-four hours older "I again, and look in every hole and corner
cried Bruce, as he rushed into the quarters of it !"

"Do, and if you fal to find any trace of as comfortable as he had been before he left
them, come to me. I'll get the provost home.
guard to keep a watch on every move that  The Major spent his first hours, when re-
old Norfiket makes. And if we do not find lieved temporarily from duty,,in relating to
outan  in  before night, or at furthest in his family his %xperiences while a prisoner,
the course oftwo or three days, I'll frighten railing at the Yankees without distinction,
the truth out of him, or scare him Into fits. as brutes and rascals, whose treatment of
When I tell him that his letters to Jeff Davis him had of course been intolerable. Woe to
and his nephew in the Army are where I the Yankee now that got in his power, was
can lay my hand on them, and describe their his cry-lhe would show him what suffering
contents to him, I reckon he'll cave-if there was.
Is any cave in, in his nature I"         In the course of his narrative, he mention-
"Yes, that will be apt to fetch him! I ed the visit of his uncle, Doctor Glover, and
beg~n to have some hope, Sergeant ; and now his cousins, to him when a prisoner on the
I'll start for another search."         gunboat-making it appear that they had
come to insult him, rather than to offer their
Ch APTER XXVI.               sympathies.
Owing to the facilities for exchange from  "The vile Unionists !" cried the father.
Fortress Monroe, by the weekly trips of the' "It is a pity that the Doctor wasn't made to
fla-oftruce boat to City Point, the duress stretch hemp! And what a pretty place he
of iilor Barrett in that stronghold was of has. I wish that belonged to our family !"bubredrain"Imyytt.1sidheMjinncm
but brief durattion.                      "tm    yye!'sadteMjrInnem
Only a few days elapsed before he was ex- phatic tone.
changed for a far better man, of the same  "fHow so? Have you any plan in your
rank in the Federal Army, who, captured mind, by which it might be acquired Y" asked
from the gallant old Seott Legion, the noble Mr. Barrett, eagerly.
New York Thirty-eighth, at the first battle  " Yes ! I noticed that the Captain of the
of Bull Run, had lingered all too long in the Yankee gunboat was very sweet on Annie,
cursed prisons of the chivalric (?) South. the Doctor's oldest daughter-about as pretty
The moment Barrett was free upon the a girl, by the way, as can be scared up now-
seil of his native State again, lie hastened a-days. And she seemed to receive his
back to his regiment, breathing nothing but marked attentions with full as much pleasure
hatred and vengeance toward his late cap- as that with which they were given. Now, I
tors in particular, and all Yankees and Union have more than half a mind to marry her
men and women in general.               myself, just to spite him 1"
What was his astonishment, as well as   "Suppose the lady should herself object I"
pleasure, to find upon his arrival at head- asked Miss Delia,
quarters, that his father, mother, and sister, "She would not be apt to object if I was
with such valuables as they could easily to put her father under arrest, and make his
transport, also with their horses and cattle, neck the price of her refusal.  And then,
which found a ready sale with the Arnm r, after the knot was tied, I could easily prove
had already arrived there, deeming their him to be a rank Unionist, and have the
longer residence so near the Federal lines property turned over to me by an Act of
unsafe after the arrest of the son.     Congress.  The Southern Representatives
The elder Mr. Barrett intented to go fur- are always willing to reward the faithful,
ther on, either to Petersburg or Richmond, when it can be done without cost to them-
but receiving the assurance from his son, as selves !"
well also as that of the commanding-officer  "The plan is a good one, my son !" said
of the forces there, that General Longetreet Mr. Barrett. "And I would advise you to
intended in a short time to make an over- carry it out. There isn't a prettier place
whelming descent upon Suffolk, capture that than Cedralia in all Virginia-is there,
lace and drive the Yankees totally out of wife ?"
southeastern Virginia, lie concluded to take  "It is a beautiful place, and I am sorry my
their advice and remain for a while with his brother's principles are such as to put it
family and servants near the head-quarters and him in peril," said Mrs. Barrett, with a
of the Army, so as to be ready to move back feeble sigh.
to the old plantation as soon as the country "lHe ought not to have enjoyed its posses-
was free from its Northern invaders.   sion a day after he refused to go in with the
A. house which had been left vacant by the patriots of his seceding State," said the Major,
arrest of its owner-a Union man, who then bitterly. "And his days upon it shall be few
lingered a prisoner in Castle Thunder. at now. As soon as I can persuade the General
Richmond-was placed, furniture and all, at to organize an expedition to go down into
his disposal, and he was soon nearly or quite that section, I will ; and I think I will carry

4,
41

C

i

I

'  "


/j {/
(    R{
dj
3
E
q
gd
{      i
l     ;
3
S

4$                          LITF  IN TILE SADDLE.
out a very choice programme that is in my his own family.  ie is the right sort of
mind. I will sink Captain Bradford's gun- a Virginian-one of the Wtihington and J.
boat for him, and carry otT his lady-love. I ferson line, not of the Pocahontas half-bredi
reckon the two losses will place me even stock."
with hm. I 811011(1 like to lave the cursed  " Fortune favors the brave, boys !" said the
regiment of rifles that captured mc meet us Sergeant, as lie looked at the 01(1SecoSsionlit.
W en we have force enough to cut them up " One of you ride to camp quick, and gtt
completely, and then I think I should feel a lariat or picket-rope. We 1ifollo'w the 0kl1
that 1 had been slightly recompensed for my wretch up to his place, and get him into
captivity-.",the woods there ; and if to don't choke the                         -
"I should think so," sail his father, with a truth out of hin, you may feed me on hard.
smile. "I wish you could get your expedi- tack for a year !"
tion started in time to save the things at my  Bruce took the ides, and lalhed of toward
plantation ; for I sho1u1(1 not he surprised if the camp in a moeinont, at fill speed ; swhilo
the Yankees 'obbled up everything I left ClifVbrd and D1)ian rode on slowly in the rear
when they fin out I have gone."          of the old rascal.
Well gobble it, and more, back again for  They were soon re'oine:l by Bruce, wh8i
you if they do, when General Lougstreet carried a coil of rope ut the frotl ring of hs
tomes down. He'll not take long in olish- saddle ; and then they role Oil across tie
ing them off I can assure you. But I must Jericho (anal, pai-lug the giard at the bridge
be ot, to eamp.   intend to ask im portent without resW.it ; for (liti'lrd had a general
favors before loi'-, and General Pryor tust pass,  1 ala  p i 1c'l the guards, unques-
not see me im the least reimas in my duty. toned, in the day-dime.
Keep up good heart, all of you --bctter days  A tilne-lookiin ehrtly gentleman, in citi-
are connuig ;anv('l -oon1 rtvel in Yank t zen's dreas, sImd eem alr t'tn \"ith the oflicer?
spoils, instead of bin  fotesfroum our of the gud wh'n they t    d, and they
homes''                                  spoke to him in the most triidly manner.
And the Major separated for the quar:ers lIe was the (piain uonnet ille of whom
of his regimot-t                       they had spokenta  trutite Union man.
Norflect was only two or three hundred
('IIAPTEI XXVII.               yards in ai ra1ce whn  thov passed the:
Three days were spent by Bruce. Dolan, bridge ; and as he entered a part of the road
and Clifford, in making a careful search in bordered on eiher side by a dense forest,
Suffolk and its suburbs, for some trace of they rap)idly closed on him, an, when h3i
Elise and her mother. But, aided though was about a quarter of a mile ftrtier on and
they were by provost-authority, they sought out of sight o1 all guards and lmouos, IDolan,
unavailingly, and at last gave up all hopt a of directed by the Sergeant, rode swiftly up to
discovering them within the Federal hmes.  the head of the mule which the od rascal
"There is nothing left flr us now," said drove, and, seizing the rein, suddenly turned
Clifford to the two cavalrymen ; " but to it off the road into an onen part of the forest.
catch old Nortleet alone, and frighten the The other two closed" up on the astonished
truth out of him."                       man, and, with drawn sabres, pricked the
These words were spoken as they sat in mule into a speed which quickly carried him
their saddles near the camp of the Rifles, on out of sight and hearing o' the road.
their last return from Suffolk.            "Gentlemen ! what (1005 this outrage
"Speak of the devil and he is always close mean ?" st.ammered the terrified old Seces-
at hand,"' said Bruce, pointing to a man in a sionist. -
mule-cart driving up the road on their left.  "You'll soon see, you bloody old thiert
"There goes the old curse now, driving up of the world !" cried Bruce, as he shook the
to his old plantation to see if any poor sol- coil of ropeC ominously b'efo're his eyes.
dier on picket, half frozen, hmas burned up an  " I know you all ; Ill report you to the  ,
old feniec-rail to keep from being chilled to General for this !" yelled the old wretch.  r
death."                                    "'I'here is precious little prVobability ofl &amp;
' Yes, so as to report to the General. as he your ever seeing any general in this world to
has done more than once, and get a Union report to !" said Clifim 1 as he ordered a halt
guard over his Rebel property, as he has done in an open space under the~ broad-spreading
fore !" cried Dolan.  "here is Captain limbs of an immense cypress-tree.
Bonneville, as good a Union man as ever    "Bruce, just throw one end of that rope
stoood in shoe-leather, and as true a man, to'o, over that lam-ge limb there, and] mako a hing--
as ever stood on a Mosaic carpet, has had man's noose at the other end !" he added, as
nearly every fence on his place burned up, he dismounted from his horse and hitched it
and never once opened his lips in complaint; to thae whecel of the cart.
and his table is a~s free to one of us as it is to " Great Heaven ! What do you intend to

LIFE IN THE SADDLE
do with me ?" gasped the trembling old as we hoist him up! Up with him, to pay
tch                                  for the girl and her mother i
wreDo? Not much--only to hang you, just   "Oh, mercy    hiiley are not far off, and if
to keep our hands in, so that we can do the you'll spare me I'll get them for youI"
thing nice for old Jetf Davis when we catch groaned the wretch.
him !"                                      Where are they ?" cried Bruce, giving
"Iang me ?   Monstrous ! You dare not ! the rope another slight pull.
" Dare not is a word never allowed to be  " At Mr. Dasiehl s house, on Mill Creek I"
spoken to or by a member of the Mounted groaned the terrified old man.
lMites, Mr. Nortleet. You evidently don't  "What are they doing there ? Who sent
know us, if you think we dare not!" said them there ?" thundered Dolan.
)olan, in his quiet way. " Bruce, I'll make  "It wasn't me. Mr. Burge took them
that knot-I understand it. I helped to hang there to send them South !" stammered the
a murderer once in 'I'(-xas, who thought that old villain.
there was no law on earth to punish him.  "When are they to go ?" aaked Clifford.
He ot chi ked for thinkim so l"           " I don't know-very soon, I believe. Oh,
"Uentlemen, if you think to scare me out for mercy's sake, don't hang tme, gentlemen 1
if money, you are laboring under a mistake, Ill do anything you ask ! 1 11 take the oath
for I haven't a cent about me!"         of allegiance, it you'll only spare me this
" All the money in your cursed Confedercy time !"
couldn't save you !" cried Clifford, sternly.  "And break it within an hour, on the plea
"You need not think we are tripling with that it was extorted irom you when you were
you!   Put that noose over his neck, i)olan. in bodily fear. Say your prayers, for I'm
Now, Sir, if you have a prayer to say, utter it tired of waiting !" said Ciliflrd, angrily.
and be briei for in three minutes more by  "Sergeant, suppose we wait unuil we see
my watch you 11 swing !"             .   whether he has told us the truth about those
The terrified old villain, now seeing that women !" said Dolan, in his philosophical
they appeared to be indeed in earnest, sprung way. "We hold his letteover him, and
from the cart and fell on his knees before the can have him arr ewed again at any time, if
party.                                   we show them to the Gcieral'"
"At least, tell me what you are going to  "That is so ; but he is auhi a cursed vii-
hang me for" he groaned, as Dolan threw  lain, that I think the world wouldho better
the noose over his head, while Bruce, at the off when his neck is stretched I" said lif-
other end of the rope, drew up the slack.  ford, appearing to rtlleet.
"First, for being an unmitigated old Rebel,  "I go in for hanging him at once. It will
false to your country and your God, a hypo- save us more labor at another time ; for. if he
crite and a spy, also a member of the Rebel has lied about the women, I'd go to the end
Secret Signal Corps!l" said Dolan. solemnly. of the earth to punish him !" cried Bruca.
"Secondly, for corresponding with Jetier-  "Oh, gentlemen, spare me, and I will be
son Davis, the arch-devil of the Confederacy, true to the Union. Tlie women are where I
and sending information in regard to the said they were. You may hang ame without
forces and fortifications here, in a letter to my saying a word, if they are not !
your nephew in the Confederate Army, both  "How were they got past our lines c?" ask-
of which letters I have intercepted, and hold ed Clifford, sternly.  "' Tell the truth, old
ready for delivery to the Commanding-Gen- man, for your litf depends upon it I'
eral in justification for hanging you, after "Mr. Burge and other titan mimide them
1 have done it.  He might be more merciful insensible with chlorotfim while they were
than I ; so I'll hang you first, and report you asleep in my house, on t.' night of the last
afterward !" said Clifford, sternly.     rain-storm, and then took them in a boat
"Third and lastly," said Bruce, drawing down the river in the darkness, and so up
the rope a little tighter, "I go in for hanging Mill Creek, where they now are at the house
you because you sent those two poor women of Mr. Dashiell. I tell the truth; so Ilip me,
that I left at your house, back into slavery God, gentlemen ! Oh, spuai mmel'
again !  Now pray your last prayer, for i m.  "Slack up the rope, Bruce. 111 see if the
tired of waiting at this end of the rope !"  old man has told the truth or not. And if he
Oh, merey-mercy, gentlemen !" groaned has, I will then think, after we have got the
the completely-terrified old scoundrel.  girls back, whether it is best to trust to his
""Not halt' the mercy you gave to poor promises of reformation or not."
Elise and her mother, you kidnapping old   "Oh, Sergeant, you may tr ust me--indeed,
wretch !" cried Bruce. "Come boys, let us you may I" cried time old rascal, as Bruce
have hiam up at once. Praying won't do him  slacked up the rope, an tuIolan slipped the
any good ; the devil has a mortgage on his noose troum his neck. "And if you will onl
soul, and stands ready to foreclose it as soon not tell the General aoul thoe letters, I wi

I

4

p
I

f


aI
F'
.5I:
i1
F

F

II

LIFE IN THE SA.DDLE.

0                         LFE IN THE SADDLE.
never write another, or do a thing to injure 'em; only leave me, Old Cesar, bere, 'cause
the Union cause !"                     I'm no good now no more no way !" replied
"You are only reprieved, not pardoned," the feeble old man.
said Clifford, in a stern tone.  Watchful  " Where has he gone to ?" cried Bruce.
eyes will be upon your every motion. I    "I doesn't know for sartin, Mars'r. He
shall know before I sleep whether the women said he was gwoin to Richmond !"
are where you say they are, or not. If they  " When did he go ?" asked Clifford.
are not there, tremble for yourself ; for, mark " Yest'day mornin', Mars'r, airly, afore de
me, you shall die, as sure as my hand can broke ob day."
wield a sabre or my finger pull a trigger.  "'Then he is across the Blackwator before
Now go, with your old mule-cart, and re- now.  Pursuit with our force would be
member that silence is your best policy. I worse than hopele.ss," said Clifford.
hold your letters and your life in my hands !"  " Who did he have with him ?" asked
The old man got into his cart, trembling yet Bruce, eagerly.
so much that he could hardly hold the reins, " All his own folks, all his black folks, too,
and drove back into the road, and home- Mars'r ; and all de horses, and do mules, and
ward, too, as fast as he could.         de cattle, too."
The Sergeant and his friends hurried to  "Were there no strangers with him?"
camp to prepare an expedition to go to the asked Dolan.
house of Dashiell.                       "Not as 1 knows on, Mars'r."
--                       "Not two women, almost white, that were
CHAPTER XXVIII.               brought here lately Y" asked Bruce.
Having got permission to go out with his  "Oh yes Mars r, I done fogot about denm,
scouting-party, Sergeant Clifford was in the cause I only seen 'em once't when de ober-
saddle, and off across the Nansemond, before seer took 'em in a wagon. I see dat dey was
the sun had gone down, anxious to learn if strange and dat he had 'em tied. One ob 'em
old Nortleet had for once been terrified into was almost white !"
telling the truth ; and if so, to release and carry  "Yes, it was them ! Curse the luck ! Why
Elise and her mother back to freedom. For could we not have been just two days soon-
he had seen and conversed with the beautiful er !" cried Bruce, gnashing his teeth in use-
and intelligent octoroon, and shared to a cer- less rage. "Now they are gone beyond our
tain degree the anxiety felt by Dolan and reach into a worse slavery than they endured
Bruce for their protegees.              before. I'll make that Burge and old Nor-
Their course lay past the infantry-pickets fleet weep tears of blood for this I Poor,
and the usual cavalry-guard beyond it, and poor Elise-she will not live long. For her
then they had only four or yive miles to go heart, which beat so exultantly at the thought
beyond our lines to reach the mills and of freedom, will break beneath this new de-
house of Dashiell. He was well known as a spair !"
man of wealth in that region, and one of the  "Don't fret so much, George-we'll have
most bitter Secession proclivities.     Richmond yet before the year is out !" said
'T'hey were not long in passing over the Dolan, quietly. "And then we'll find the
few mils, for the horses were kept at a poor women out, and free them once more
gallop.  When they arrived at the stately for good and all !"
mansion of Dashiell, however, they were   "'llave Richmond ? I've heard that tune
doomed to disappointment. They found it sung ever since the war commenced. Old
entirely deserted, and almost entirely de- Greeley sung it when we went to Bull Run
nuded of furniture. ''he ruts made by the -Raymond took it up and sung it out on the
wheels of heavily-laden wagons were yet Chickahominy, which was the worst hominy
fresh about the house and in( the road leading I ever had to take. And it's 'On to Rich-
to the Blackwater.                      mend' yet, and will be for six months of
Neither horses, mules, nor cattle were to be Sundays yet, I expect! The poor women
seen about the place. Everything exhibited are gone ; and all that we have left for us to
signs of a recent and hasty evacuation of the do is, to revenge them ; and if' George Bruce
premises.                               don't do his part at that, may lie never see
One old lame negro was the only human the Susquehanna again! That's all! Let's
being to be seen on the place, and they found burn this cursed crib at any rate, Sergeant,
him roasting sweet potatoes for his supper at just for a holocaust, as old 1uarson Pipes used
the old kitchen-fire,                  to say
"Where is your master t" thundered Clif-  " It would hardly do, without orders !
ford, as lie gazed at the white-headed old The General is getting particular lately
P Ethiopian.                              said Clitford. "And I would advise you all,
"Done gone away, Mars'r-hc done gone if you go to looking for eggs in the barns, to
away wid all de rest of 'ct-all do tect of be careful of your pipes, for you mfht acci

:X

dentally drop fire, you know. Of course, we
are not responsible for accidents; but it is
my duty to caution you to be very care-
ful !"
" Will it be very wrong for us to pick up a
few of those ducks and chickens that the old
Reb has left behind, Sergeant !" asked one of
the inca.
"No, I think it would be wrong to leave
them here uncared for !" replied Clifford.
That was enough ; and in a little while,
when they rode off, every man had a brace
or two of nice fowls at his saddle-rings.
They hid not gone far before a bright light
was seen in their rear, and the Sergeant see-
ing it, said :
"Some of you must have dropped fire
from your pipes, men, back there, or else
that old nigger, has been careless. If ever
*)ashiell comes back to his plantation, I'm
afraid he'll have to build himself another
house !
"I hope so !" said Bruce, "and that he'll
only need cellar-room in it for himself-six
leet by two, or thiereahouts !"
"You must remember, boys, that if we are
questioned about the fire, that I cautioned
you to be careful, and it has occurred acci-
dentally, it' it has been done through us !"
said Clifford.
A laughing assent was given, and the men
rode meirilly on, all pleased with the result
of the expedition, except poor George, whose
heart throbbed sadly as he thought of poor
Elise again in bondage.
The night was pleasant, and they went on
at a stetadfy trot, soon reaching the pickets
and passing them with the countersign. It
was not y;et time for tattoo when they were
all snug in camp again, their horses rubbed
uunn and fed, and themselves in quiet quar-
tets for the niirht.
A ad there we will leave them for the pres-
"u; while we, ever-sleepless, will look else-
hete to see what is stirring.
CH APTER XXIX.
Roger A. Pryor never was considered the
ha lsomest man in the Iouse, when he was
a imimber of Congress.. Nor did he look
vi iferocious whehi lie refused to meet Mr.
Pot ter with bowie-knives, to brighten his
t't'ihedt honor. And I have seen handsom-
or men in the field titan lie looked to me one
iday, when lie was skedaddling away from
our Rites in Virginia, his lank form cased in
a suit of rusty gray, his long hair floating
out like singed flax on the wind, and the rim
of a very Greeley-like hat flopping about
his long ears, his heels pressed vigorously
to the flanks of a horse that looked to be
of far more intrinsic worth than its rider.
But he looked, and doubtless felt, very

comfortable in his quarters near Ivor, just
across the Blackwater, when Major 3arrett
called on him to request permission to get
up an expedition of a foraging and maraud-
ing nature.
For he had a large mint-julep in his hand
-a barrel of apple-jack set on end served
him for a table, on which a lunch was spread,
and a small keg of the same article consti-
tuted his seat.
"What is new on the tapis, Major?" he
asked, in his boyish voice, as he took a bite
at a sandwich and then moistened it with a
sip of julep.
"Nothing new around here, General," re-
plied the Major, blandly. taking the seat on
another liquor-keg to which he was motioned
by the General. "But I came to ask permis-
sion to get up something,new !"
"Well, what is it, Major? A plan to stir
up our Yankee neighbors ?"
"Yes, General. I should like to take a
battalion of my regiment and a battery, and
go down toward the vicinity of Suffolk, to
see if I can't ambush a few of the infernal
vandals, to pay up for the couple of weeks,
involuntary board which they gave me
"Is not such a force as you request too
small to go so near their lines as you pro-
pose. They come out scouting with a full
regiment very often !"
"I know it, General ; but I ask no greater
force than my rank entitles me to command,
for I wish to go in command of this expe-
dition. I think that, with my knowledge of
the country, I can do something handsome
for the cause, and give some of the Northern
mudsills a sound drubbing !"
"I admire your zeal and ambition, Major,
and shall not do anything, I assure you, to
lessen it, but rather forward your wishes, so
far as I can. You can take Done's Light
Battery with you, and I will detail another
battalion from' Claiborne's Georia regiment
of horse. Its Major is your junior, and you
will be in command then of quite a respecta-
ble force !"
"A thousand thanks, General. I will do
something with it that will please you !"
"I do not doubt it, Major. When will you
start ?"
" Early t9-morrow morning, Sir, without
forage or rations ; for -I know the country, and
it shall feed my men and horses I"
"Good ! that is t  best plan to go on, for
our commissariat is poor, at the best. If you
can bring back a few fat cattle and sheep, or
a few cartloads of poultry, for our mess, you
will not be blamed, I assure you. Will you
take a glass of apple-jack, Major, ant a
sandwich? I have nothing better to offer
you!"
"Thank you, Sir ; permit my haste to give

I3

I(

x1 '

t

t
1

"7"
.
s


I!F
f   F

52                           LIFE INTI
orders for the men to get arms and ammuni-
tion riidr. to be my excuse for not joining in
your lunch
tX'rLiinly-I like to see officers who can
think tbitv rather than pleasure."
tIhe Major hurried out, ant while on his
wnay t the head-quarters of hit regiment met
4     a Cavdcade i V iii3 loathed with fur-
r i  'it i ngro-, ccmiing in on the Black-
A  the helad of the truin rode a foi'mer ac-
qu dAnLiuce of hi.. Mr. ltstiell.
" . 11oving, Sir' ' he said. as lie saluted
Ye ,ti for liiclini-t Iat la t. The Yan-
es u e ci owding en too close," said the
h it t r. " L:,t weei% ,tn hy took all the lumber
a',"a "a: fr ny : mill, and I expected their next
0 we  e milermy nigers antl Ck
so 1 tho1 t itbest to it them away while 1I
tibr-i "r ar Mar  Where did you get
ite i     ir. ilishiel"
A _ 'i'' :eor S1:(' lace  eil edup as he Po'nt
° i  L   t'i i I .1ostpi wit, w ho  'were stated
sid' '.   in miie of tin'o i1I0eot w agons.
no    o  women Y \ by, Norilhet, of
mt '1k, tal the: imslnugile Iout to mne. I am
to ilikih ii t t RI.chuwnn'd to rell for hini.''
e      ' o mi father will have soanutuing
y '; ' ,ri  ' :  ..1r ,
Oily I een"e they are his property-
takei ho:ni him a shoi t  t4o o by the
cnkt . liei 3 here, Loe ite I in ihat white
boa -e yion let, n:ar the Gene(0al a  titqu-ue-s.
an i wll Le -t iy glad to reclaim i.is losd
I e   :vt um iall not try to keep him from
li ow'- 'ail Mr. Dahit.b " Norltltat
thea wom n to inc. and I ordered my overseer
to t:ke c n ot tlti in. I did not know that
they bel tiedt  ut o'ur hither ; for I never hat c
had a wo to say to tlhtem1. I wonder if I
can i.et gartct n ith your alaier to-night 7"
"  es air, without any doubt. I will iide
Up at, tara tie house iwith you. lie may
pc'-e'ade yoi to do as he is uoimg-take up
Quairteis lie ctutil Loigstrei'et cones down to
drive owa-- tc Yankee ,, and give hitmt.
e  II  t   t i baciek to lis old plantatiu
I iiti it ''i tal k  I would rather seo it,
th   In i I'  Il  i -
ou n iit t20 it if you lite till sping."
'I Li i'et)     -
( IAP 'E   X XX.
tin, dn-.    thbe rivei', to-day,
C :'1:u am  .dsed y asteka l S ,  at Ulilfold.
oft' 'ommandt~l'relofthe  i5 nolia. meeting
hilCm. r toen nad quar'ters ofhi Lii' Co)umu- n
nmg Gn al in Sullk on tiO n , hist' 11ii1i-,
turn lto; t.; vist to tlhC mi:.iil iL:2e.

I

E SADDLE.
"Yes, Sergeant, in the course of an houror
two, to return early to-morrow. Will you not
take a trip with me, and receive the intro-
dtuction that I promised you ?"
"I will, if I can get leave from my Colonel.
I can ride up to camp and be hack in thirty
or forty minutes. If I do not return within
that time, you will know that circumstances
oblige me to decline your kind invitation."
"'Very well; I shall expect you, and I hope
nothing will occur to keep you away. I will
not start before ten o clock-or eleven, if you
think it will take you more than an hour to
get reely."
"It will not take me an hour ii the Colonel
can spare me until ti-morrow  said the Ser-
geant, as he leaped into the saddle and rode
ohr up the street at full speed.
The Captain of the gunboat now went,
on board his vessel to oroer steam to be got
up, and make the necessary prep rations for
his trip.
He did not have to wait over his time for
the appearance of the Sergeant :for, in less
than the fo ty minutes named, thm latter rode
down to the whuri; with another man in con-
pany to tike his horse back, and waved a sig-
nal for a boat.
" All risht, Captain," said lie, as lie stepped
on board the gunboat. 'And if we see any
birds worth the shooting, i've brought along
a nice double-barreled sun, that I took from
a sneaking North Carolina guerrilla, not long
ago. It is of English make, and looks as if it
would throw sho't well."
"We may see some ducks on the river,"
said the Captain, with a smile. 'And pos-
sibly we may spy some gray geese on land-
if we do, my Iarrott thirties may talk to
them rather saucily. I always load with
canister going down the river, especially for
their benefit:'
"I understand you. IC we should see any
of the gray-backed gentry going down, and
they are in short range, 1 can load my gun
with a half-hnidful of No. 1 buckshot, as ii
was loaded when I got it!"
"I should have supposed the guerrilla
would have unloaded it before lie was captur-
ed, if he was as smart as most of his class
generally are."
"lie probably would have done so, had he
not received a sedative roum one of my men
just before '
"A sedative? Do your men administer
medicine
" Certainly, Captain ! Blue pills, which
produce a steep froim which there is no earth-
ty waking. Pills of an ounce weight, and a
most indigestible nature!'
"Yes; i also understand you! They are
alministei ed through steel tubes, labeled
'ha tie s' or ' Colts patcut, are they not?"

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
"Generally, Captain. How soon do you arm men, on
start ow"                                be ready for v
"Iii less than ten minutes-as soon as the  Scarcely h
engineer reports a proper head of steam on. when a burst
Getting enter way here is not much trouble. thicket ahead
When'we have steam, it is only to slip our shell, whirli
moorinmrs and we a're oil; for we lie at a about the st
buoy, purposely for quick work. It is seldom  that he had a
that I have an anchor down !"              Springing t
"'Twenty -six pounds of steam o, Sir," said and sighted b
the engineer, coming up and saluting the to fire. Wit
Captain, at this moment.                 which shook
"Very well, Mr. Carpenter. We will slip the two guns
at once, and go down the river. The pilot is and canisters
at the wheel, I see."                    Rebel battery
In a fcw moments more, the steamer was  "Load wit
moving at a lair rate of speed down one of them it at
the most crooked and perverse channels that Captain, throw
ever bothued a white man to steer through.  rammer.  "
Sometime; close in -under one bank, and point."
then over on the other shore ; at some points  "The Pilo
apparently steering  directly back toward got a ball thi
where they came horn; they went on, umak- ter-master, i
ing speed w biravr a straight stretch opened, now being
and obliged to run slow when a short turn shooters on t
was to be maade, to avoid going ashore with  " Stand to
too much head ay, Lelore the boat could get for the point
around.                                 the wheel at
Thus, for several miles they went, Clifford  Then cam
on deck with the Captain, scanning the chores the battery
closely as they moved on, for occasionally a splintered ti
guerrilla-piarty visited the river-banks, rend- curses below
ering a close watch at all times necessary.  been done.
They had got within three or tour miles of  But, in an
Cedar'Point, and were going at a fine rate of heavily cha
speed, when Rladford pointed out the spot to shower into
Clifford, remarking that within twenty min- posted, and
utes they would see the roses of Cedralia, the tion told tha
tairest flowers in Christendom.            Only two
While they were gazing at the point, the the secondI
steamer having just run into a bend which third time al
compelled them  to hug the western shore and musket
closely, Captain ladford uttered an exclama- Rebel flag w
tion of surpilse, aind pointed to a thick vol- cannon-shot
une of smoke which rose suddenly at Cedar A few wild
Point.                                  were fired;
"Heavens! The Doctor's building must ford sent bo
be on fire' li e cried. " That smoke rises woods, in d
from the 1ery spot where they are located. spouse was,
Pilot, sing out to the engineer, through the  lie ran hi
speaking-tube, to put on all the steam the the battery
boat will carry."                        guns loaded
Scarcely had lie issued that order before a had a boat l
new cause of alarm arose.                men, and C
Men in gray uniforms were reported, by to reconnoit
the lookout, to have been seen in the bushes  He soon
ahead, and all at once the Rebel flag was seen harmless.
flaunting on a point just ahead of the boat, Rebels lay
and near which she must pass to keep in the battery had
channel.                                 all gone, t,
"Stand to your guns, men ! Gunner, open horses to g
the magazine and be ready to serve out am- for his gro
munition !" shouted the Captain. "Small- horses.

58
with your cartridge-boxes, and
work!"
ad these orders been issued,
of smoke and flame from the
, and the shriek of a half-dozen
ng through the air, over and
eamer,-told the brave Captain
battery to contend with.
to his two bow-guns, he leveled
oth himself, and gave the order
h a report and a concussion
the vessel from stem to stern,
sent their heavy load of grape
into the dense wood where the
y was located.
th grape again; we will give
close quarters !' shouted the
wing off his coat and seizing a
Pilot, steer directly for that
t is shot dead, Sir, and I have
rough my arm," cried the quar-
n the pilot-house; which was
riddled by bullets from sharp-
he shore.
your guns, Captain, I'll keep her
," shouted Clifford,'springing to
once.
le another volley of shell from
on the point, and the crash of
mber, and a few wild cries and
told that damage and hurt had
instant mere, the steamer's guns
rged with grape, sent a deadly
the thicket where the battery was
yells and cries from that direc-
t it was not a one-sided affair.
of the Rebel guns responded to
fire of the steamer, and when a
he sent a raking sheet of grape
bullets through the woods, the
as seen to go down and not a
was again tired from the shore.
and scattering musket-shots only
and then, though Captain Rad-
th shot and shell all through the
Different directions, no Rebel re-
given.
s boat close in to the point where
had been posted; and with his
,-so as to cover the landing, he
owered, and with a dozen picked
lifford in his company, proceeded
itre the shore.
found that his fire had not been
Over twenty dead and wounded
in one spot, where the six-gun
been ; and though the guns were
wo caissons left, for the want of
et them away, fell into his hands,
ape had killed nearly half thehi

1

+ 1
if

I

s
i

1  +
i
,
4


4
r

54                           LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
Learning from  the Rebel wounded that with him with sincere          for
there was a large cavalry-force in rerveto that I shall not lose a d asure, nhile I an
protect the battery, he took them  on board, sure of gaining a worthy son !", Q  ii
and then looked at the damage which lie had  "ou ammg   at son !"        t
received, while he kept throwing a shell ask You to better wait, dear father, until he
every nonw and then into the woodYg, to pre- laughing.  Yoome his bride "said Annie
vtnt the battery fron again taking a position be in a great hurry to get rid of me !'' t
to aim thim.at h   w   oOf course; for when your angelic lady.
and Cfbnre that his own loss was the pilot ship isout of the way, I may stand a chance
and three other en killed, and four woun- for a beau !' said Marveliat
hm n;inher lpipboat, thourghi onsiderably " Oh, is that all that is the matter ? It will
~ohmiuria injterupper works, had received soon be remedied, for Captai Bradtford said
o   ' ri inowrom thesmokeand1       when he was last here, that he was oin to
to.i ruic g nowdafrat Cedart oint were in ,ingyou down a beau, a particular friend of
dec(th a]l poiufire,  ue at once stea ted thown to  "Indeed ! I think he had better wait till I
Is'bcin(, ha d in  no d (eoubt but that the ask him to do so !" said the young beauty
t ch- 1D 1 trade a detrutive descent til)on vith an affected toss of her line head. "And
te octo t  Upropirty to punish hint for lts besides, I will give him no credit for disinter-
ne ao , rtn to the Union csuse.        estedness in the matter-he well knows if he
Iiu a sits rt time, the steamer was bromughtt brings some  .n$o trctti ainifm le
to oil tie point, andtwith his guns trained will have more of atr tcopattentio, ee
toaover ibs laidinr the gallant Captain, ac- through it all, my wise sister. Bradford is
'ortilauiarIy oClilrd as a volunteer-aide, kind, exceedigly, t--you and himself"
rdith a oarty of snill-ar   men, at once iur  b"Ungrateful ' . I've a mind, if lie does not
ndt ion uore to learn the lute of the octor bing the promised beau to-day, to tell him
arid hisfatuily.  ___not to do it at all."h
" 'hat would be spite, sister dear. Let the
As   .4 vs theirXusualxcustom,. Dbcto   eau come-if he is landsonic, healthy,
lA arsen veirv usually custer luntr Gover wealthyx, mut wi'.e, I shall lose all the heart I
lmtn oari  hatvery flti'th afr sunrise, on the have got hm less titan no time at lili ; if he is
iruiE-,  ud mnthattifataltiny-for he and they ugly, and et, and cmrsty, and old-why
hr      o othe tlelfrt-iesung principle thit I1l tell imu to wait till you're a widow, and
tir. horrs of the fresh it ornig air are inflict him on you for a punishment I"a
V itit ate tn tn six in the hotter nd more  Annie was about to reply, when the sound
Their\ tig part of the day.            of gadllepdng horses and clning scabbards
'I ltvitr r:xk:aest  asoon ended;and then, was hceurd.s  - ey  ad scarce time to cast a
ut their usuale   custom, they took a stroll terriftil look up the pathway which led to
at th! ie ho!uleih bank of tlie river in front the house, before a dozen horsemen in g
o the   anli itbduniforms, and with sabres, carbines, and ps-
Tnt,' Mi-nria is to h' down to-day, is she tols, were drawn up around them. P
not Authe remarkul the Doctor, au he      Femtost of all, evidently their leader, was
l tM A r th  itain                      Major George Barrett-a sardonic smile of
1ns, sir, Captain  afford sail, when he triumph on his face.
hen 'p day before yesterday, that lie would  ' Good morning, fair Cousins-ood day,
r'd    a past here on huhe« wt} ho -Fort Men- most loy ttl Uucle Glovur! A pleasant sur-
r .' uPll, i theidlhe eintoffe u i.  rise, eht ?'" said hue, in a sarcastic ltne. "You
-eit    i irl u cmie tan se  hham.  No hardly~ (expected a visit so soon from the rela-
m       riltaion' uIcietititane iiainun sure. tive whaot you saw a prisoner in charge of
S nst a,' a irt,itin  fo sS killed fur fiis   our very particular friend, Captuin Bradford
. ry    iii it'' tol  a d  -h un are riot wye kit napping eyes were lately bent so
i   r y  i tiuliiuts I titti totld,.and  lti's ntumny acts  lovinglytni het.
of kiuinde's to m deserve even a r  r e           on the  orln of my sweet Cousin
comens thn w ca gven rrr-            nie!
coinl O'te' tian we can give."              "You had better leave this locality soon,
hi ii aU ~:t'1i if lie only gets whttie Sit, or lie will bend his eyes  a  e  outs
l'ssihti tcfor!"snulI~Rveit htcn with you in any buit a loving way. In a few hours,
&amp;hathe utitAnnie,  hio  brightened color told perhaps minutes, his boat will be down the
tht shel  s the htnm                river, and his guns carry grape and canister
"W elI, I an sure no man htter deservess for men who wear the uniform of traitors I"
it,' said the Doctor. smiling. "lie is Food- said Antnie, indignantly.      r
looking intellectual, rented, and undou'btd-  "O, he is comnaing down to-day, Is he ?"
Sbilbr  stud thruei  o his county It'dbhieeeIrshallh r i o oed the Rebel  major. "Iam  very glad
shold e hs  hoie, shllhail her union to hear eli' t. for I have posted a battery on

LIFE IN THE PADDLE.
the river up abovee that will soon riddle his paring yourself to them," said Annie, scorn-
hull for him, and most likely send him to   eyy the are Christians comp
seek a bride in paradise.  1 have sent up   , added Marvelia.      .a        .
somie skillful shai-pshooters, with directions  your  it, my fair cousins, while  ou are in
pick off ofileers particularly, if any ebo  the humor. Your feelings may c ange ina
come down before my other work is done -'" tte hiler."Yu  elnsma   hne
" Just such orders as a coward and a vii- little whilee"
lain would give  said little Marvelia,. ush-  "Our feelings of utter detestation for you,
in r p hWithanger, and boldly coming to"tOf loathing and contempt too strong for
iWhy, wht a little spitfire you are, utterance"' added Marveha,
" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~~~" Wywhtaitlsptieyua, "You had better save a dictionary from
cousiiiP"1" said the M1ajor, laughing scornfully.  "othdbte  aeadcinr       frm
"I shall have to find you a husband in our your father's doomed library before I set fire
ranks, to ta e you and learnyou loyalty. As to it, so that you can study out some harder
to Annie, 1 have vowed to take her to my- words for  y case  sa  th Major, with a
self, just to spite that Yankee beau of hers"  sneer. "But I have done t appear decently
"B  evens, George, this is too much, want to save any clothing, tapperdcnl
"By heatve n ,  tho u s it   n amd  in  on  our  journey  to  Richmond, do  it at
Isterld snthoug you dear at;my fet e"cread once, for in ten minutes more that house and
Dool    Er angrily.                every building on the place will be m flames.
"Doctor belov patient my good uncle. You will I am not in a humor to waste words now-
I'E a great dcal of patience before you  "What shall we do, father ?" asked the
reach Richmond, and you ma' as well begin girl.                              ow-
to use it now. Young ladies, if you have any  "Save what you can-we are h aw -that
dresses which you wish to care out of that house the grounds were filled with gray-coated
ty ooad oetr tyilget m orced  I amtroopers, who were killing his poultry, rid-
pretty soon, or they will get scorched. Yankee  over his flowers and shrubbery, and de-
oirg to wn tba smoke to brmig yAn and sroying everything that they touched.
lover down to my battery, Mliss;unie       The girls and their father, escorted by a
the hose will make a good oneI"Tmgilanthrfteesoedba
What do you maean, Sir ?" Not that we select guard, now went to the house, and the
ar to be relado ol as prisoners ?" exclaimed Moav orders for the only carriage and
the ltoeregre ashionrorecanelnses~eft on the place to be hitched up,
"recieys oemayodotr.Doctor. -  Your res- ready for removing the family, and then
ence is required in Castle Thunder at Rich- caused the out-houses to be set on fire.
mnde isaed, as i have already said,  have  In a short time, these and the barn were
matrimon ial projects in view for both of my all in a flame, causing the smoke first seen
fair cousins  "                         on board the Ma noa.
"You cannot be so utterly lost to all sense  The young ladies and their father were
of honor ud dececy-so irretrievably sunk allowed but a short time in which to select
in moral tntdeey--SO damnably degraded as such wearing-apparel and valuables as they
inoa tkrpooitude-ou oni blod-relatives wished to take with them, and then the
to think of dooming t ur own o .       house was given over to the troopers to plun-
to misery:  ativthe   hfoctor.  tten their der such things as they needed.
ho nyd blood-relicoveyhavingd bfrgome so The Doctor and his daughters having been
degraded as to favdeciitle in and seekcalliance placed in the carriage, it was driven a short
with the Yankee invaders of their native distance dwelling, which had been to them
State, need seek no favors from me. I shall scaw th dome, set on fire.
carry out my orders, which are, to take dis- such a happy hmsto  ie
loyal persons prut ouer, or, if I choose to deal  Almost at the samemoment, theheavy roar
more sunasriluy with the , to do so. You of cannonr was heard up the river.
may  be tuun lt   w  th, ifI o nt  -    "  Your  Y kee  lover  is  catch ig  thunder,
before your own door, and let you roast said Barrett to Annie, as he rode up by the
be ohe ylme  wih1y1e wilshortly side of the carriage-
kin the flames which my een"w      or      "And replying to it too, Sir," said the un-
"George Barrett, you were a disrace to daunted girl, athcou avy gun  ro  on
your family when a boy-now you  isgrace board the l    ater report of the  battery
utterly the  nim  of manhood, eveni"      "Thank Heaven, this will start the troops out
Raii away, uncle, it dese good to hear from Suffolk, and you never will reach the
it.  avaes  eve  enoy he orture of a Rebel lines," she added.
prisoner without the screams"            "Well see about that, Miss," replied the
"Yon do the savagesa iful wrong in com- Major, bitterly. ""When the gunboat is sunk, -

I
g
f

i
,

1
}


.
t
i
,
I
+ '
k
i
i
,

L                           LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
and what is left of her crew alive are our raise would be worse than useless !" said the
prisoners, we will move back on a reserve Captain, with a sigh. " Ah I what is that..
that will defy all pursuing force. I never a note fastened to a bush !"
do things hy halves. Hear how the battery  The Captain sprung reward as he spoke,
is pouring the shot into the Yankees "  and detached a penciled paper from a bush
" Rather hear how the Federal guns are just in front of him.
throwing (heath back into the ranks of trea-  "Good Heavens !" he said, bitterly, as he
son !' said Annie. "Your battery-guns. do glanced at its contents.  I would give a
not speak half as often as they did, while the thousand dollars to have him within tea
heavy guns are firing faster and faster, nearer paces of me I"
and nearer."                               "What is it, Captain " asked Clifford,
"By heavens, she speaks the truth," mut- noting his excitement.
tered the Major. "It is time we were mov-  "A note from that infernal Rebel, Major
ing."                                    Barrett !" replied the C'tin  "edU
:hen, leaving a squadron of select men, Sergeant. It is enough to make an adotie
with some order secretly given, he formed curse !"e
the rest in column by "fours", and, with the  Clifford took the note and read its eon-
carriage in the centre, surrounded by a pick- tents. They were indeed provoking.
ed guard. moved on.                       "Captain Radfrd is specially i gvi . d to be present
at the nuptias of Major George Barrett and Mis
CHAPTER XXXII.                 Annie Glover, which will take place in a very short
Whlien Captain Radlfordl and Cliffordwithtine, at or near Petersburg, virginia. No cards, no
WhenCaptin  ailfrd  nd Ciffrd,  ithcake, but plenty of apple-jack.
their small party, reached a spot where they            "     . B., Major, C. S. A"
could see the former location of the elegant  "It is enough to make a deacon swear,
mansion of Doctor Glover, all that couki be Captain; but we are only losing time here.
discovered wvas, the ruined chimneys and cel- If you will take my advice, you will get back
ar-walls of the once-stately building. All to Suffolk with your boat as soon as possible,
the outhouses also were in ashes ; and not a and'report this affair ; and I will guarantee
living thing, human or brute, could be dis- our'regiment will be on the trail of these
covered ahout the premises.              hounds in a little while - and if we don't
'lhinkitm that tie Doctor and his family catch them, it will not be for want of try-
had pos-ih  been warned in time and fled ing !"ry
into the neighboring woods, Radford gave  '-You are right, Clifford.  Every moment
ordeis to miove cautiously on and search the now is worth an hour at another time. I will
icimity.  lie soon came upon the tracks of get permission to go with you, if you will let
the force which had been there ; and, after 1e have a horse to ride ; and I may yet get a
proceedipg mbout half a mile, came to the blow or a shot at the infernal villain who
spat whiiie the artillery had diverged from  wrote that note !"
the m:in body to go to the point where it had  "You shall have bonny black Kate, my
openil wi tia steamer,                last capture from the Georgia Cavalry, and as
Sofair, no signs of the Doctor and his fleet as any animal in the country !" said the
family lad been seen ; and the Captain began Sergeant. "I have kept her up for myself
to think it was risking too much to advance when my favorite bay got tired, but lie is
further into the country out of cover of his resting now, and will be fresh when we get
cannon, with so small a force-only ten men back
besides Clifford and himself.              The Captain now gave the order for his
So lie sadly gave the order to halt, and men to fall back to the boat. But alas! it
prepared to return, fearing that the Doctor came too late-they had advanced too far, in-
and his fuuily haid indeed been carried off by deed, for safety
the Rebels, or perhaps killed, and destroyed  Suddenly, without a word, charging from
in ththubanes of their own house.        the thicket on both sides of the roa coni-
"Can you firm any idea by their tracks, pletely surrounding them, dashed the squad-
how many there were in this party ?" he ron of full one hundred picked men, leli
asked of Clifford, when they paused.     in ambuscade by Barrett.
"Not less than a regiment-perhaps more.  Resistance to such a force would have been
The ground is cut up all around with tracks utter madness, and only insured the entire
where they spread out !" replied the Ser- destruction of the party ; and sullenly, de-
geant.                                   spairingly, the brave men who, with the least
"All horsemen, do you think ?" continued hope of success, would have fought to the
-he Captain,                             last, surrendered.
"I see no signs of infantry !" replied the  "Where is the commander of your forces ?'
e   rienced scout.                       asked Radford of the Captain to whom lie
Then pursuit with any force that I can gave up his sword.

16
t
s{

L

I /;

LIFE IN THE SADDT E
" In advance With the main column.  We kind of a man to surrender without a shot;
will soon overtake him!" said the officer, in and he keeps his eyes too wide. open to be
a respectful toneC.                      surprised easily.
"Itais M1ijo. Barett, I supposerl" said the  "it is a thick country, and full of heavy
S   ItiptMin a                            underbrush, traded by narrow paths when
" Yes, Sir 1" replied the Rebel officer.  you are once beyond the cleared land," said
" Has he   ny other prisoners  ' asked the second engineer.
Radsord        y                            "Well, there is something very strange in
"None but 1)octor Glover and his family !" his lengthened absice,' said Mr. Knapp.
"Are they unlariend, Sir "              "I hardly know what to do. I fear it would
"Yes  ir.                              be wrong to weaken the crew by taking or
"Tien M ir Barrett may yet find that he sending another party in search of him.'
is not fore vr in the line of luck !" said  "I would voluiuteer to go alone, did I not
ladford bte'l 1.                        know if I wvas taken by the Rebels they would
Rahe orec   -icer made no reply ; but, try to force me to work an engine; for their
orderngupxwelve of his best mounted men, prisoners all say they cannot get half engineers
bade thei  cac take a prisoner behind them, enough for their 'ieed, and what they have
and then ga'e the order to move forward at a. arc either Nortiern men or foreigners, said
allop.                                  the first engineer.
a opdid not notice t n'action of Clifford's,  " Well, ii Mr. Kntpp will let me go, I'll try
just then -or he iiighit have paused to see it alone. 1 n not worth much, anyhow," said
what hal been wrincn in a note-book on the r"inner.
which the Sergeant had hurriedly scrawled a  .' 'ou are worth everything to us in your
few lines t which he dropped just as they depa tment, 'said Mr. Knapp.  But you are
started off.                              cool-headed, and will not run yourself need-
It was a brief statement of their surprise nessly into a scrape. So, if you choose to go,
and capture by a superior force, and a con- i'll let a boat s-Crew take you ashore and wait
jecture that tae toree of Rebels on the ex- for you. - o not go iro under cover of our
edition was nut more than the Rifles could guns, and if you see the least sign of a Rebel
overtake and handle, it they started in time.  thrce, lire your pistols, and rtn for heboat,
-and 11 open over your head with she .
CIIAPTEi XXXIII.                "Very well, Sir; send me ashore at once,"
The oflicer xoviiwas second in commuid said the gunner, who had pistols in his belt
of the Magnoia waited lr over an hour in already.
great auxety ioi the return of Captain Rail-  In a few moments, lie was landed, ant, di-
lord and his tart. lie had been ordered not reacting the cre.v of the small-boat to wait for
to come to an nchor, but to keep the boat him, he hurried inland.
barely undir headway, moving up and down ie pursued thw same course lately follow-
m front of Cedar [oit, ready to use her guns ed by Rnmbrd and his party, without seeing
if the Retels should show themselves.     any iving person ; though he discovered the
He was sit poised at the long delay of his flesh tracks of a large body of men.  ie went
superior on siore ;but not having heard any as far as the forks of the road where Radford
tiring, he had not the least suspicion that lie had been surprised, and there halted ; for he
met with the enemy. For he knew that he had gone as far as his prudence would per-
was generally cautious, though brave, and mit. He was about to return, when his eyes
also that he would lire the moment he saw an fell upon the notebook which had been drop-
enemy to fire upon.                       ped by the scouting sergeant.
An hour and a half passed, and yet no     "Some Rebel curse has dropped hispocket-
*   sign of the patty on shore. Mr. Knapp, the book, I reckon !" said' he, to himself, as he
second olicer, began to feel really alarmed.  stepped forward and picked up the book.
*     He held a consultation with the pilot and  Upon opening it, lie found the name "Ser-
engineers, who were as much surprised as he geant Ernest Clifford, First New York Mount-
at the 1ong-continued absence of their com- ch Rifles in it, and, on looking further,
wander.       -                           covered these words, hurriedly scrawled in
"lie never would have been so rash as to pencil, on a blank page, which was turned
go far inland on a trail with only ten men !" down for notice.
said the old gunner. "I know lie is fearless  "CaptaIn Radford, his party and myself, have peen
for himself; but he has always shown a care surprised ind captured by a large force of mounted
for the lives of others."                 men, under Major iarrett of the Confederate Servie
"Might lie not have been surprised and 'they are evidently bound back toward the liaekwater.
captured  he novone of the engineers.     If a mounted force ollow us, we may be recaptured.
pto                                     will leave signs of our track, which my scouts will
"Never. without firing on whosoever tried know, every caaice tiat I get. Doctor G lover and hie
it !" said Mr. Knapp, at once. "lie is not the faintly are also prisoners. Let the General in come

1*

'''
°i
i,
r
a  i

}

i
r

..


t 
I!.
.a

58                          LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
mand at Suffolk, and my Colonel, know this as soon as  " I think that I and my party surrendered
posrabne.             ERNBST CLIFFORD,   to a force which was over ten to one, and that
when ambushed, and taken completely by
With this concise and important informa- surprise," said Clifford. " But I remember a
tion in his hand, the gunner hastened back blustering coward of a Rebel Major, who hid
to the gunboat, and in a few moments after- in a woman's bed to keep out of sight of only
ward she was heading for Suffolk with all the one of the Rifles to which I am proud to be.
speed which steam could give her.        long, and who afterward surrendered to two
of them, and who was offered arms and a
CHAPTER XXXIV.                 chance to win his freedom by fighting only
The party which had Captain Radford and one of them. But the cowardly Rebel puppy
his men in charge, rode very rapidly for about did not dare to do it, and sneaked into cap-
an hour, or perhaps a little longer, when they tivity, pretending that it was beneath his
came up with the main body, which, having dignity to fight with a private. The name of
artillery, the carriage of Doctor Glover and this miserable poltroon was Major George
several forage-laden wagons, and carts which Barrett."
they had confiscated along the road, was   "By Heaven, I've half a mind to hang you
obliged to move more slowly, although the on the nearest tree," cried the Major, black
train was kept at as much speed as possible ; with rage.
for Barrett well knew that his safety depend-  "Try it, and ten of the first Rebels which
ed upon his reaching the fortified line on the the Mounted Rifles catch will hang in my
Blackwater before a pursuing force could place !" said the Sergeant, fearlessly.
overtake him.                              "I have no time for delay, or I'd hang you
The newly-made prisoners were at once in spite of the threat !" said the Major, bit.
conducted to the head of the column, where terly. "Guard, keep constant watch on that
Barrett was riding,                      man, and if he makes the slightest attempt to
In passing, they saw awl were seen by Doe- escape, shoot him down instantly."
tor Glover and his family. but looks of sym-  Then lie again turned to Captain Radford,
path y only could be exchanged, for the officer and spoke once more in his sarcastic tone.
in charge passed on with them, at a rapid  " I presume. Sir," he said, " that you re-
IaUop-                                  ceived the invitation to my anticipated wed.
TIn' look of exultation which brightened ding, since you have availed yourself of it so
the face of Major Barrett, when he saw the soon."
pisoners, can hiardlyx be described.      "I received your premeditated and cow-
You have done well, Sir !" said he to the ardly insult, sir," said Captain Radford.
officer who had captured them. "And if "And I doubt not that a day will arrive when
ever influence of mine can aid in your pro- I can properly resent and punish it. And I
motion, you shall have it."              would also remind you that God does not
Then turning to the prisoners, lie said i permit a union of devils and angels, or that
sneeringly to Captain ladford .         the wedding you alluded to, never will take
" I ani very happy to have it in my power place."
to extend to you the same kind of hospitality,  "You will soon see, Sir, that you are mis.
Sir, that von lately extended to rue. I can- taken, for you shall be a witness to the cere.
not promc von as good fare, but -ou cer- , mony. I know how to touch such animals
tain y shall be as earelully guarded. see, too. as you, on the raw l"
by his uniform, that you have one of the ! Captain Radford's only answer was a look
celebrat I Mounted ltohers in your coin- of ineifable scorn as they rode on.
pany. I wish him joy' in his prospects. lie  The killing pace which hiad been kept up,
will receive con-iderab'le attention from my now began to tell on the artillery and team-
in ', for they know his regiment well."  ' horses; and, as night was approaching, the
That is strange !' said Clifford. full as ' Major knew that he must halt for a few hours,
sueringly as Harrett had spoken. "I could or his horses would be too much used up to
seldom get icar enough to any ot your Rebel go on. So he sent his Adjutant in advance
cavalry to g't acquainted with them. They to look out a good spot, near water, for atem.
ate te be tnon on a skedaddle that I ever porary bivouac.
s"                                       This was found in a short time, and a halt
' Shut vir mouth, you dog of a Yankee, was ordered near a stream, which ran slug-
cr I'll shut it fr you,' cried the Major.  gishly along, across the road, just in the edge
"if you ani three of your best men will , of a growth of hard timber, of a far differ.
dismount and let me have a sabre, ill fight ent nature from the open tine-woods they
the four at once," said Clifford, indignantly.  had just been riding through.
" It will do for you to boast, who surren-  "Keep the Yankee prisoners here, close by
dered without a blow," sneered Barrett.  me h" said the Major, when they halted.

LIFE IN TH
"I'll keep an eye on them myself. Orderly,
take my saddle off my bay horse, and put it
on my gray. He is fresh and must take the
next turn."
The Orderly obeyed, and led up a magnifi-
cent ray stallion of powerful build, whose
clean limbs, small ears, and lithe frame be-
tokened the purity of his blood, upon which
he placed the trappings which he took from
the tired bay.
Sergeant ~Clifford, who stood near where
the horses were, and close by Captain Rad-
ford, whispered to him:
"I am about to make a bold trial for escape.
If I get clear, keep up a good heart, for I will
rescue you, before you reach a Rebel prison.
Say nothing, but keep cool, and you'll soon
see a bit of horsemanship which will rather
astonish these graybacked bunglers."
"What the devil arc ydu two Yanks whis-
pering there about?" cried the Major, an-
grily. "Stand apart, or I'll have you tied to
two trees, back to back t"
Clifford stepped away quickly, as if startled
at the rebuke, and his stride carried him
within a few feet of the gray horse, which
the orderly had just finished saddling and
bridling.
The next instant, with an astonishing
bound, lie leaped into the saddle, and driving
the spurs which were permanently fixed into
the heels of his cavalry-boots, into the flanks
of the horse, lie gave a yell, which nothing but
a Camanche brave could have approached,
and the horse frightened, gave a, wild leap
directly over the Major, who unfortunately
for him stood in the way, felling him sense-
less to the ground, and dashed off down the
road with a speed which defied pursuit.
A few scattering shots were fired after the
daring fugitive; and a dozen of the best
mounted men rode off in pursuit ; but they
might as well have chased a feather on the
breath of a whirlwind. He was free, and,
knowing the country as he did, there was
little danger of his recapture.
It was some minutes before the Major re-
covered his senses sufficiently to know (is-
tinctly what had occurred.
When he did, his rage was terrible; for he
was suffering the pain of several broken ribs,
inflicted by the hoofs of his horse as it had
gone over him, besides the thought of losing
a horse valued as one of the fastest and best
in the Southern Army, for which he had
been offered very large sums, but had refused,
preferring to keep so good a horse for his own
special use. For well he knew there were,
and might for him, be times, when life itself
depended upon the speed of a horse.
His curses were neither few nor select, and
he instantly ordered every prisoner to be
bound hand and foot. And he sent a party

80

of men out to seize carts to carry them in.
after that ; not daring to trust them on horse.
back, even with his own men.
And well knowing that Clifford would
speedily carry the news of his whereabouts
to the nearest Federal forces,'he soon after
broke up his bivouac ; and, tired as his men
and horses were, moved on in the gloom of
the night, knowing well that there would be
no safety for him on that side of the Black.
water.
CHAPTER XXXV.
The instant that the Commanding-General
at Suffolk received information of the cap-
ture of Captain Radford and his party, he
ordered out a force after the Rebels. The
Mounted Rifles were already in the saddle,
their commander having been instructed to
proceed with his regiment to see what was
going on below, when the guns of the gun-
boat and battery were first heard. He, there-
fore, was ready to dash forward at once when
the information brought by the gunboat ar-
rived, and having been permitted to see the
brief note in the memorandum-book of his
scounting-seargeant, he comprehended in a
moment the route which the Rebels must
take to get back to the Blackwater.
He therefore, asked, and received, permis-
sion to move on as fast as he could, without
waiting for the artillery and infantry force
that was ordered out ; being in hopes of over-
taking the enemy and holding him engaged
until more force could come up, if lie should
find him too strong for his own regiment to
handle.
Therefore, while the shallow waters of the
Nansemond were yet muddy with the arrival
of the steamer, he, with his well mounted
regiment, was speeding swiftly over the draw-
bridge and on through the region of sand
and pine beyond it, on the way to intercept
the enemy, if possible, before he could reach
his fortified lines across the meanest swamp.
line, liver-colored river that ever was known
in Virginia.
At as much speed as could be kept up with-
out rendering the horses unfit for service, the
regiment moved forward, the usual precau-
tions of strong advance and rearguards be-
ing thrown out. Night came on, but they
did not halt. Forward, no sound but the
jingling of scabbards and the heavy breath-
ing of the horses-forward in a column of
fours, over roads already well known to them
all, passing here and there a deserted house
or some miserable plantation that had been
sacked in turn, alike by Rebel ant Federal-
ist, through a country in which nothing was
left worth fighting for, apparently.
It was about two hours after sunset, per-
haps even more, when the advance-guard

E SADDLE.

L I
I,

. 

t
I"

i

i
1


I,.
ii

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
heard tie clattering of hooft ahead of them,  "With onl one squadron between it and
and in a moment more the form of " a soli- the rearguar ,Sir.'
taryhorseman" came in Msight.              "Then if wo can come suddenly upon
halt t"thunder el the sergeant in corn- them, we can take it by a charge before they
mand ti the advance-guard, as his men, with can use a gun. Ride forward, Sergeant, to
rifles at a ready, covered the horse and its the advance, and keep a sharp trot. Yo
rider,                                    know the roads and will guide the column.
The latter halted, but his speed had brought I will have your scouts ordered up to you i4
him within almost a sabre a length of the once, with arms for you also."
advance when lie did ho, and both parties   "Thank you, Sir, we will find thme euiatm
were near enough to reornize each other.  before daylight."
"Sergeant Clifford!" sail the non-commis-  And the Sergeant touched his captured
sioned officer in charge of the advance,   steed with the spur, and rode back to the ad-
"Yes, Barnes, where is the Colonel? I vance, happy to be once more with his own
have mews btr Oin," replied, the scout.   well-proved and well-loved regiment.
You'll find him with 'I'roop A, at the
bead of the column, I reckon," said the Ser-
geant. " Is there any enemy close to us ?"           CIAP'ER XXXVI.
"No, not very near. 'this horse goes like  The Rebel force under Barrett, wearied by
the wind, and lmis run the wimil out of any- their long and rapid ride, both from their
thing that was alter time, I guess. Keep on ; lines and back toward them, made but slow
1 wi11 ride back to the Colonel. What 1 have progress after night-fall. and more than once
to tell him will not be apt to imaLke him slack the Rebel Major received hints from the
up any in s  1"                         Captain in command of the battery, that his
Tine advance at once role on, keeping, as horses were pretty nearly worn out.
ordered, just about t wo inuiihed yards im ad- " I would like to halt," he replied on one
vance of the lhad of the column, and so con- of these occasions ; " but the escape of that
nected by nmessengers in sight of each other infernal Sergeant annoys me. Ile has got a
that a correct distance could be preserved.  horse which, for speed adnd bottom, has noa
The Colonel ut tered an exclamation of master in the country ; and he will have the
pleasure when Clitlrd dmsied up on his news of my route and my precise force into'
oam-covered horsey, and instantly ordered a the Union lines long before midnight. And
halt while he listened to what the escaped then their Cavaly, Deodes Rites, And
&amp;er ant had to say.                       Spears' Pennsylvania )eviis, will be after
H  ow did you get way, Sergeant ?" was mime at full speed, It they overtake us before
his first inquiry,                        we get under cover of our guns at Black-
o y borrowing the fresh hore which Ma- water Bridge, we11 get worse handling than
jor Brret t. the 1tebel commanucder, hand just we cver have had before ; for we'll be out-
cause to be :ad lie dloms own use, Sir, and numbered by men far better armed and better'
a splendidI heat lie is. I have ridien him at mounted than we are. And I should lose my  [Y
full speed f r a hog distance, and he shows prisoners, to say the least ; mid I had rather
sis o n armes yet !.               lose my life than lose the party I have got in  T
le is a nt gniicem amimal-would match that carriage, and that internal Yankee Cap-
m  own Araiddan !'' said the Colonel. "But tam. I owe him a grudge, and I'd kill him
w ere is tie enemy, and how strong ?"   before lie should be retaken!"
1 left him, Sir, on the Isle of Wight road,  "If I were you, Sir, I would seize fresh l
about seven or eight Iniles from Chuckatuck, horses at the first plantation we pass, and,
where he had bivouacked for a few hours' rest. putting them to the carriage, send it and the
But I doubt his staying there long, since I Captain on ahead with a select guard eo
have got away ; for he will know, of course, trusty and well-mounted men-then, if we
that 1 would not be long imi conve'ing news have a fight, they will be out of the way of
into our lines of his whereabouts.        recapture, at any rate."
"his force-how large is that?" asked tine  " You're right, Captain. I will adopt your
Colonel,                                  plan ; and then, if we find tine horses too
N riot more than seven or eight hundred, mucha used-up to proceed, we can select a
with one battery of ligit artillery."    good place for demce, pnt your battery in
"Not too strong fir us, then Y'        position, and let both hor-ses and men rest.
"No Sir ; if we can only overtake them, If the Yankees come then, we can at least
.hey are ours. 'ihey have a lot of forage- take care of ourselves I"
carts and wagons along, and cannot move as  " Yes ; and I am glad to hear you say 0,
fast as we.'"-Major ; for my horses will be utterly ruined
"Where did they keep their artillery on if they have to haul the guns live miles
the march ?"                              further without food or rest I The drivers

have to keep their whips going all the time
now."
"Very well- Sir. There is a house close
ahead owned by a good friend to the Confed-
eracy. I hate to take his horses ; but he has
some good ones, and my necessity knows no
law, and must be any excuse. If tine Yankees
follow us up, when we've whipped them
I'll return him two horses for each one that I
take !"
And the Major resumed his march, sending
his Adjutant on again, to look for a defensible
position.
Upon arriving at the 'plantation which
they were then in sight of the Major seized
four fresh horses for tle carriage, and took
the tired horses from it. After having the
fresh horses put to the carriage, he caused
the Captain to be taken from the cart where
he had been thrown unceremoniously with
his men, and had him  laced in the carriage
with Doctor Glv -er and his family.
Then selecting a faithful non-commissioned
officer and a strong guard of the best-mounted
macn, he ordered them to hurry forward with
the prisoiers to the Rebel camp across the
Blackwater, and it they heard cannonading
in the rear, to report to the General that he
was attacked by superior forces, and needed
mounted re-cniorceneents as soon as they
could get to him.
"I suppose you will like the change in
your mode of conveyance, and especially
our company, Sir !" said Barrett to Captain
Radford. "Make the most of it, for your en-
joyment of it will be brief."
The naval officer made no reply : the das-
tardly treatment he had already received
from the iRebel Major's hands had so angered
him that ie felt no inclination to bandy
words with such a brute.
Therefore the carriage rolled off without
the occupants either looking at or speaking
to the uniformed villain who had them in
power for the time.
But when once they were beyond his hear-
ing, the Glovers hastened first to cut the fast-
enings which bound the Captain's hands and
legs, and then to express their indignation at
the unmanly treatment which they had re-
ceived.
"It is only lent !" said the Captain, quietly.
"My time will comie- yet, and you may rest'
msured that Major Barrett will he repaid
with interest for his abuse. If I cannot
scupe, they must soon exchange me, and I
will never rest after I am free until I have
founi and punishei him I"
 But what is to become of us ?" sighed
Annie. "T'I'here is no exchange for us ; and
I dread to think what they may do with our
dear father.  Our cousin has dared to say
that they will hang him for treason I'

"I

"I hope they will not be so errel as to add
to his or your sufferings. And I pray you
to keep up a bold heart. The Sergeant that
escaped will soon reach the Federal lines,
and his information will bring a strong force
out after the Rebels, and we may yet be res-
cued !"
"Oh, I hope and pray that it may be so.
It is terrible to be in the power of a con-
scienceless and unscrupulous man!" said
Annie.
" Hark ! there is firing in our rear !" cried
the Captain, joyfully. "Our friends are
near. Oh that I were free and armed now, or
that we were yet with the main body instead
of being away from them !"
"Whip up your horses and drive on fast-
er !" cried the Sergeant of. the guard to the
driver of the carriage. "lurry up, you
black imp, or Ill give you an inch of my
sabre by way of a spur !"
And on dashed the carriage at a rapid rate,
away from the heavy lire now heard in their
rear.
-    CIIAPTEIt\XXXVII.
The column under command of Major
Barrett proceeded about four miles from the
place where the carriage had left it, and then
caine to a halt at a spot which tie Adjutant
had selected as a very defensilde position. A
narrow but deep stream, bordered on either
side by a swamp, crossed the road, being
bridged by a log causeway through the
swamp, and the single span over the stream
being covered with fifteen or twenty planks.
As the swamp was inpassable for some
distance above and below the road, the Major
agreed with his subordinate that their rear
was well guarded, when the planks were
thrown off the bridge so as to prevent cav-
alr from crossing.
Therefore, planting a couple of guns so as
to sweep the road leading to the bridge, the
Major halted his commandl in an open field
just beyond it, and ordered the mcn to feed
their horses and to refresh themselves. A
slight guard was thrown out in front, more
as a matter of form than necessity, for no
enemy was to beexpfted coming from that
direction, when theirown lines were within
a few miles.
A single sentinel kept a lookout to the
rear, though the cannoneers were directed to
remain near their guns while they ate and
drank, so as to be ready for instant serv-
ice.
Fires were lighted for the preparation ot
food, the forage-carts drawn up, and soon the
whole command was busy in refreshing
themselves and their weary animals.
But they were not destined to.- remain long
undisturbed- But few had got a meal cnok-

LIFE IN TILE SADDLE.

*k
i

I
'1

F'

f
i

t

'.
.


,I
4'

l                           LIFE IN TIDE SADDLE.
ed, much leis eaten, when the musket of the ' manner to do much harm, took matters very
solitary seitinel in the rear rung out the easy ; for he expected that the Commanding.
alarm as he field upon the Union cavalry- General at Blackwater would soon send him
advance, which c:sn it a gallop close up to re-enforcements ; and he knew that, while his
the dismsauled biide rctbfore they di-covered battery was at play, the Federals could neaEr
its condin.                             cross the swamp and stream.
And c: ni !h ty would not have done,   So lie ordered all but the batter':men to
had not theLttiminen on the other batik continue as before in taking care "of teier
lighted a lireIy Go to cook by-the friendly horses and themselves, and waitelI qiie=y
light of ul  li enabled the advancing caf- for his own cook to broil him some chickeas
airy to      hel t ir danger Letore they had and prepare a supper from the choice tois
pluneel inmo tihe tiry waters of the creek.  te had stolen from Cedar I'oint.
Clitlord, vto was in the extreme front, sat  le w as quietly seated, with the rest of his
the danger f r t, and also the guns which  )fiicers, enjoying the luxurious supper whIch
command l te road, and instantly ordered a dhad been got ready, when the blast of a dozen
rereeat:t f ii 1h exio."el position to a bend bugles sounding the charge at his very ear
in the i ioi a W rots in the rear, where they came upon his astonished senses ; and the
would be t' mp o  ily out of range of the next moment, yelling like so many wild
guns of tih Hc'M '.                      Camanches from  the plains, riding on and
And it was hone juit in the nick of time ; over everything in their way, swept the
for, in a milnt itallr the two guns poured a squadrons of the dreaded Mouited Riides.
heavy cbaon ge of shrapnel down the road over  Scarce a shot was fired, either oflinsive or
which they bal s v.itly ietrograded.   defensive-the keen, glittering steel did the
. What ha. e  ei ii nont., Sergeant Y' ask- work. So completely were the Rebels sur.
ed theI him i, atie he op to the spot to prised, that hardly any resistance was made.
which the moh ince guard had fallen back.  Those who were armed threw down their
The u hole body of the enemy, 1 think, weapons and cried out for quarters; the gun-
Sir," replied ('lidonl. "1 think their horses ners fled from their guns into the creek and
are about c-u I up. an. ithey had to rest."  the swamp; and, in less time than has been
"Do you knosi the ground they are on ?" taken to write it, the whole Rebel force, ofD-
"Yes, Sir, well. I have often looked at it cers and all, was either captives or fugitives
when I have been out this way. It is a capi- in the swamp.
tal place for them to make a stand at. We  "The tables are turned in a hurry, Sir!t"
cannot get at thema in front now, for they cried C~Ilford, who had singled out Major
have taken the planks rom the bridge, and Barrett for a little private sword-exercise, in
we could never replace them in the lace of which he was disappointed by the Major's
their artillery wuen we have no heavy guns unresisting surrender.
ourselves !"                               "Yes, luck has flavored you horse-thieves s
"Is there n  way of tlanking them and this time," said the Rebel Major, bitterly.
getting to thiet r am- '                  "Perhaps you will oblige me by inorminn {
"Yes, Sir, by itiding about fouraniles around me where I will find Captain Bradford and
through somle lainy- that I know of; that can Doctor Glover's family. I wish to congratu-
be done.                                 late them  upon their freedom  froni your  t:
Good: I will keep a company of men tyrannical thralldom," said the Sergeant.    T
here dismomohm  I to keep firing on them in  '" You will have to ride a good deal farther
front, to nake them believe we are all here, to find them," said the Major, with a sareas-
and try the 1:aiikinllan with the rest of the tic smile. "Some hours ago, I gave them and
regiment. You xx ui agidn take the lead on their guard fresh horses and saat them on
the route you lop,  a , and the column. withi ahead, and by this time the, ame safe from
the  exception i01 Company B, will follow  your pursuit, on the other side of the Black-
you.                                     water, where I only- wish y -ur commander
'Thte orlei v e si cedily given, and while would try to go. He would meet a welcome
one company. eating as skirmishers, kept up which would prt bably induce hint and the
an incesant tiring on the Rebels across the most of his command to remain there."
creek and sw amip. making a good deal of   "Gone ? Then I must see ii they cannot
noise but doing very little tarn, the rest of be overtken," said Clitford. as lie pi  hits
the regilemimn ole iou in a by lane at a gallop 'prisoner in charge of one of iis scouts, to be
after Clihoid and his scouts, the noise ot their taken to his Colonel.
movements c implelcy drowned by the boom-  And lie rode rapidly over the ground, and
tag of thm 1k   1 t'em v, wx hieh wx as now ini made inquiries of other priisonems, to satisfy
lull plaiy upnihr~Io enecimy in third tear.  Idimiself that the .Major bad really told the
Major hrm ett riding that the Federal; trtith in regard to Captain IBradord and the
Ritles did act cumumand hits position in a Gloiver family.

Finding that this was the case, he at once
applied to his commander for, permission to
take eighteen or twenty men and press for- t
ward to try and overtake the unfortunate
captives.
'his permission was readily granted, for
services such is his had been were not suchI
as his ever-generous commander would un-
dervalue or overlook; and in a few minutes
he was moving at a rapid rate along the road
which had been passed over by the carriage.1
The lat words of his commander were ae
caution not to rashlry un into the jaws of' the
enemy ; and if hoe foud that the occupants of1
the carriage had really been taken beyondI
the Rebel lines, to return and trust to him for
negotiations, which, with tie crowd of pris-j
oners he had on his hands, would effect their
release.
He remembered this when, after riding as
fast as he darel, lie reached the vicinity of
the Blackwater, just in time to see the car-
riage disappearing amid the ranks of a large
body of troops'which were crossing the river
to come to the aid of Major Barrett.
He only waited long enough to see that the
force which was crossmig was numerically
far too great to render it wise for the Rifles to
await their attack, encumbered as they were
with prisoners ; thei hLe hurried' back to let
his Colonel know of the new danger which
menaced them.
He found on his arrival at the late battle-
ground, that the bridge had been repaired,
the prisoners moust-ered and mounted, and
everything made   ready for falling back
toward Butlflk.
His information caused the Colonel to move
on with his column at once, leaving a strong
rearguard to again destroy the bridge, and
place other oht ructions in the way of the
pursuing enemy.
This was doino barely in time to check them
before the Federal force was out of shelling-
distance; for the Rebels, with a heavy force
of cavalry nid artillery, reached the demol-
iahed bridge, while the rearguard of the
titles were yet ito sight.
But the (olonel conmmnanding the Federal
forces knew that lie was safe, for it would
take the enemy a considerable time to gather
material to iebuild the bridge; and he well
knew also that a heavy force was on the way
from Suffolk to aid him, and that the delay
of the enemy would probably give him time
to reach the ieiinity of that force.
Had he nt been so encumbered with pris-
oners and wagons, he would have remained at
the bridge and foaghit the Rebels. But there
was very liulet aunnmmmition left for the use of
the Rebel bauery which he lad captured; and
brave as Lie was almost to rashness, he would
not risk time 1.. ui is tysoners by staying,

when he could fall back upon a sure support,
which would fearfully punish the Rebels if
they persisted in following him up.
And his judgment proved good, for when
some hours after he met the Union force of
artillery and infantry, the pursuing enemy
had just come in sight of his rearguard.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
Finding the Union force too powerful to
be attacked when united, the Rebel pursuers
of the victorious Mounted Rifles fell back,
with all possible speed toward their lines,
their mounted men being able to out-travel
the infantry who were ready and anxious to
engage them. Nothing therefore was left but
for our forces to fall back to outl'olk, the ob-
ject of the expedition having been completely
and gallantly eflcted by the cavalry regi-
meat alone, the recapttire of Captain Rad-
ford and his friends being the only thing
which lacked complete success.
A day or two after the return of the troops,
Bruce and Dolan entered the tent of Ser-
geant Clifford.
"Well, boys, what is, up? I see you've got
something important in your minds by your
looks !" said the Sergeant.
"You'd like to get your friends, Captain .
Radford and the family of )oetor Glover,
out of Rebel hands, would you not ?" said
Bruce.
"Yes, indeed ; I'd give all of my pay and
two fingers off my left hand to accomplish
such a tilng I" said Clifford, eagerly.
"Well, Dolan and me have been thinking
over the matter and trying to plan how that
could be done, and something else which we
have set our minds upon. We've found out .
that old Barrett is living near the Rebel
camp on the other side of the Blackwater,
and that he has got Elise and her mother
back from Dashiell !"
"how did you learn that ?"
"From some of the prisoners in Major
Barrett's command. And we've determined,
if allowed, to try it ; to run all risks to free
those poor women once more, and with a
little more help we may be able to get the
rest away at the same time"
"Ike idea is good; but to succeed looks as
near impossibility as can be !"
"I ve heard you say before now that there
was no such thing as an impossibility ! said
Dolan, in his usual quiet way.
"I acknowledge   that," said  Clifford.
"Since you have been thinking over this mat-
ter, what plan have you formed ?"
"Why, we find we can buy up some of
the Rebel uniforms; for they, poor devils, will
sell anything they have got for rum of
tobacco !"
"Well, what thenY"

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.

1tj
4    6

IA
f'     I

-/ $
i

.


i ; '
if
P

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.

" Why, with them on we could get into the consequence of the great speed which their
Rebel camp and once there, we could go to guard and driver had kept up. They were
work to get our friends free !"           delayed for some time upon the bank of the
"Go to work to get yourselves hung as river, while a large body of Rebel troops
spies, you mean ; for the very'uniforms you were crossing on a swinging bridge which
wore would be recognized as those of the could be drawn over when needed for use
men recently taken by us,, and you would and it was long after daylight before they got
be seen to be strangers. 'liat plan is too over.
risky."                                     When they were across they were driven
" Well, Sergeant, you  re good on plans. at once to head-qua terms, wheic the Sergeant
Give us one ot your own aIclug-"       in charge of the guard reponed them to Gen-
" How would you like to play d"terter ?,  eral Pickett.
"'That would be just as ii,;y, if' they once Upon learning the relationship of Doctor
found out that we were not real deserters !"  Glover's family to the Barretts, he ordered
"It should not be ihun I ittby Iherim it the the ladies to be taken to the house of' Mr. Bar-
part was played well. We could go on a rett, but the Doctor and Mr. Radford were
scout, some twenty-live or thirtv o us, aind placed in close custody, in consequence ofa
ride within siglt of thimer p:ketI and when note front the Major, tiit through the hands
there, those selected to play de~crters could of the Sergeant, represening theta as deeper.
suddenly rile out bro  tle  ht, show a white ate and intent upon making their escape.
flag, and ride inside of the 1Reiel lines, while  'I'lie two girls pleaded ii vain to be allowed
the otlhems chased them, tiriui all fhe while ; to share in the imprisonmiat of their father;
but careful i shoot wile of h hemurk !"  the Rebel general, with a show of gallantry,
Ay, w c understand. Itfhat ; but what sort of saying that ho could not for a moment think
a tale could we tell the It ll. to make them of putting ladies under restraint.
believe we had c:aune to uete:r."           "Are we free then to return to our desolat-
"Oh, that is ea;y enough;' Tell them we ed home, Sir," asked Annie, when the (Gen-
have up start otlhe:s, and vou rhne been eral had rendered his linal and positive do-
abused, un I got too ma ito 0-i i lIit :''  vision.
" Will you'r un the ri, S'rgeani ?"       " Hardly, after having been within our
" Yes, I wouni never ulvitio others to do lines, when, as I understand you are sotunfor-
what I would not atte:mt m elf. If I can tunate as to be disloyal to the Confederacy,"
get permission 1 will run tie ilk I sipeak of: said the General, mildly. "A longer sojourn
We three know chwl oticr, :I I could all with your friends on this side of the line may
that could te done in such a ca.e. Will you alter your opinions and make you convertsto
go if I (10  '                           the justice of our caused. If such should be
" Yes, to be sure we will, anmd be glad of the case, every proper liberty will be cheer.
the clhnce. if' u       c an  '  vthe thing fully conceded to you."
through," replied Bruic, fir' bimself anI   " We shall ask no further favors, Sir," said
friend.                                   Annie, proudly. In refusing us the consola-
For what one of them cngaged in the tion of sharing our father's confinement and
other was sure to share -hoth1 prils and sue- sulfering, you refuse the only boon which we
cesses.                                   would be thankful for. And were we to so-
"Well, then, I will pro if we can get per- journ within the Rebel lines until its leaders
mission to htar.ar the enw rrise. it we sue- became Christian men and gentlemen-a mat-
ceed in it. the rik will be uell repaid. If we ter scarcely to be ho)ed for-our principles of
fail, the fault shail not be our=. lut we must loyalty to the Union and its starry flag never
keep the secret well to oars lves. Were the wouldbe changed. We may be held captive
secesh to get hold of it in :m way,', our lives in our persons, but our minds are as free as
wouldn't be word h asnn ti !''~          the air we breathe."
" I know  that !' ai ' lruco. " But if I  " You had best beware, ladies ; a too free use
could oily t seiepor Eli-l ite once more, I'd of your sentimntns may produce trouble for
agree to  v : ip iay lease ci lite 'in rthourt a you. The Governmncut at Rtichnmond does nt
murmur .                                  pause to consider sex when it lumnishes trea
son. The signs of your education show list
ChIA PTEl   XXXIX.              your father fins not been arrested any tot
When tih' carriage whim Captain Radford soon."
and )ocor Glover uid his honily arrived in  lie will not be your prisoner always, iltnk
sight of the Rebel lines on tire Llackwater, God for that !" said Marvelia, indignantly.
their hope of rescue failed. although they saw,  " It is not likely that he will be a prisoner
by getting a glimp e of C'liiford s pursuing very long, if the reports which have reached
party, easily recognize I by their uniform, mme of lis treasonaible conduct and opinion
that it had been atteimi)poad, and only failed in be true,'' said the Geineral, emphaticiilly-

54

9  -,                             1-

- UFE IN TILE SADDLE.
a Traitors to the Confederacy have a short you, I suppose, will be regarded in a different
shrift and a strong rope for their reward, as a light ; for you were not taken in arms against
general thing. And your contumacy will not them " h      enattemt to make
aid him any in his trouble, you may be well  "Yes; ,hcy may even   t '   ak
assured. He will hang all the sooner for mine a e  of treason against their false and
having inculcated his treason into his chil- rebelli  Government, and they eertniuly
dren as vell as practiced it himself."  can no make meiout friendly toward it.ex
" Treason ! treason to whom Y" cried Annie, - oppos-d it before it was formed, when it ox
flushed with indignation. " He has been true isted, and will oppose and denounce it to the
to his God and to his country. It is you, hour of mydeath  hen you are  chaed
Sir, and such as you, who wear the brand of I fear you  b  folt  lt tme
Arnold and of Cain upon your brows. You   It shall not be my fault if I do not see you
whose hearts are black with the taint of trea- again, for I never will rest until you and
son"                                    your faunily are free. You are well aware
"Lady, your sex alone is your protection. how precious one of that family is to me,
You will be conducted by the guard to your and my regard for the rest is more than mere
future quarters, where -you must remain, friendship, I assure you f"
without I give you permission to leave them, "I know it, Captain; and I feel honored
and only good conduct will ever gain that." by your regard. But here comes old Barrett.
"We would perish there, Sir, before we I wonder what he can have to say."
would ask your permission to leave them.  The planter was halted by the armed sen-
You call yourself a Southern man, and you tinel who paced to and fro before the tent,
ought to know the spirit of Southern women but he produced a pass signed by theCoin-
-it; indeed, vou ever have associated with mantling General, which allowed his visit to
ladies in your previous career !"      the prisoners, and was allowed at once to
"Sergeant, remove those ladies at once. It proceed.
Is not pleasant for me to listen to their  "How areyou, Doctor Glover ?t hesaid, as
abuse 1" cried the General. he entered the tent. "I come to bear the
" The truth is ever painful to a villain's regrets of your sister, my wife, united with
ears !" said little Marvelia, as she followed my own, that the General will not permit
her sister from the room. "If General Pryor you, as well as your daughters, to accept the
expects to frighten us, girls though we be, he hospitality of my house   '"-
is lost in his reckoning. We will yet sing a  "I am very comfortable here, Sir-fully as
song of triumph over his downfall and the much so as can be expected under the cir-
success of those who arc in the right. Cheer cunistances I" replied the Doctor, calmly.
up, sister Annie ; I feel as if we would all get "Doubtless, my quarters are as pleasant to me
out of this scrape yet."                at this time as those are which, your son
"So do I, Marvelia ; and I will not let my is probably occupying at Suffolk!"
heart sink, no matter how dark things look  There was enough of sarcasm in the tone,
at present!"                           as well as in the concluding remark of the
Doctor, to nettle the temper of the planter.
CHAPTER XL.                   "He at least is suffering in a good cause!"
The news of the complete defeat of Major replied the latter, testily. "He is loyal to the
Barrett, and the capture of himself and all of State of his birth, and to the noble Confeder-
his men, except fitteen or twenty who had acy of the South 1"
succeeded in hiding in the swamp, reached  "You might better boast of his loyalty to
the Rebel camp in a tew hours after the ar- the devil !" said the Doctor, with a sneer.
rival of Captain Radford and his friends. And "his connection with the cut-throat band
it gave them some pleasure in their sadness robbers and thieves, who would destroy the
to know it.                             Union which Washington led victorious and
"Major George will not be made much left glorious, should rather bring the blush of
more comfortable this time than we are, I shame to your cheek than words of exulta-
reckon !"said Captain Radford to the Doctor, tion. Iis act in robbing my henroosts, and
who was confined in the same tent with him. burning the house in which my children were
"I hope not. Ile deserves to be repaid for born and raised,.is but a proo' of what such
the wanton destruction of my property, and I company can sink him to. Better it were
hope that he will. 1is treatment of you, in that he had died in his cradle than to have
binding you like a felon and throwing you followed ithe footsteps of Benedict Arnold;
into the bottom of a cart, would insure retali- for the me t that you miserable Secessionists
ation if it was known in your own lines. can do in the end will be, to offer your coun-
I wonder how long they will keep us here ?" try to some foreign monarch for a province,
"I think that as a prisoner of war they will selling your bodies into slavery, even as you
not keep me long," said the Captain. "But have already pledged your souls to Satan!"

E
.


I
r             f
R
r
i
f    4
t
E
j       .
t
i
P    j      F
F
t
. E
i
I=

"Doctor Glover, I did not expect to be thus
insulted when making you a friendly visit. I
came, indeed, to make a propition which,
if acceded to, would at least have given you
the liberty of residing without restraint in
my house, and ultimate y given you freedom."
"Indeed! Perhaps you will make the prop-
ositions which are to produce such unexpect-
ed-on my part-results. That is, if my truth-
laden words have not barred the propositions
out, of which you speak."
"They are enough to justify my silence ;
but I will not hold anger against one so near-
ly related to me as you are by my marriage
with your sister. The General wil permit you
to reside with me unguarded, upon condition
of your taking the oath of allegiance to the
Confederate States of America, and upon your
proving yourself loyal to the said Confed-
eracy; he will give you freedom to go any-
where within our lines that you desire, ac-
companied byyour family."
"Did the General send such a message to
me by youY"
mUponin representations of your rela-
tionship, and the interest I felt in you, he
did so."
Well, you can take my answer back to
him. But, by the way, perhaps he made
some threat of doing something else if I re-
fused to take the oath you mention. Do not
do your errand by halves."
"Ho said that if you did not choose to ac-
cept that clemency, he should send you, at
an early day, to ,Richmond, to be tried fox
high treason."
"How kind in him?! Tell him that I de-
spise him, the oath he proposes, and the mes-
sen ger he sent his proposition by ,more than I
do the dust beneath my feet. Tel lhim I owe no
allegiance to any Government but the regular
Government of the United States of America.
That I detest the Rebellion, its supporters and
abetters, and abhor the assassins who com-
pose its armies. As to his threat of sending
me to Richmond, lie may carry it out when
he pleases. I glory in opposing Rebels I"
"Doctor, you tioe mad I Think of your
family, and the position in which your death
will leave them; for die you will it you utter
such words at Richmond as you speak here."
"I leave my poor girls to the care of Al-
mighty God, Mr. Barrett. If I die, my curse
will remain to wither and blast my murder-
ers. And in due time the vengeance of a
just Providence will fall upon the heads of'
my persecutors. No fear dwells in my breast,
Sir; no craven thought which can make me
untrue to my country. Go and tell Roger
Pryor so; and tell him that I fear him less
than lie feared the man who accepted his
challenge when he was in Con'ress, and
whom he dared not fight when co:i steel was

to settle the question of courage between
them."
"Doctor, in spite of your insult I ask you
to reflect before you positively refuse tal
offer of clemency. My wife sent me with her
tears to beg you to accept the offer made."
"Did my daughters tell you to bring me
such a proposition? You hesitate to atlswcr
that, Sir. And I know the noble girls did
not. They know me and my feelings too
well to wish that I should ever enjoy life at
the sacrifice of principle. You need not re-
main here any longer, Sir: all the words that
you are master of could not change my de-
termination."
"Very well, Doctor ; it is painful, but I
must tell the General that you refuse his offer,
and the consequences will be upon your own
head. Farewell l"
"Farewell, Sir. You need not annoy me
by coming here again," said the Doctor, turn-
ing his back upon his departing visitor.
"What do you think of that, Captain ?"
asked the Doctor, when they were lell once
more alone.
"I think, Sir, that your decision is as noble
as your own more than Roman soul. And
that a just God will not permit your enemies
to triumph in your death. I shall endeavor
to plan our mutual escape, if it is a possible
thing,,before we are sent from here. Be cau-
tions in every word and act, after this, end
we may find friends even in this camp. It
looks dark for you now, but it is always dark-
est just before dawn. We will hope-it is
the last shot that is left in life's locker. When
all else is gone, despair will not enter where
one breath of hope exists."'
"''rue, my good friend-most true ; and for
the sake of my (lear girls I will hope, and act
whenever a chance for action occurs
CHAPTER XLI.
Where what was known as the "old Black-
water Bridge" stood, before it was burned
down when the Rebels evacuated Norfolk,
there was at the time of which we write a
strong picket-guard posted near some earth-
works and rifle-pits, a short distance in ad-
vance of the main encampment of the Rebel
force. These works and the guard were on
the western side of the river, which was now
unbridged, except when they wished to cross
troops, when their floating or swinging
bridh'e, as it was termed, was drawn athwart
the deep but narrow stream.   The Rebels
held this river as their line, and had fortified
every feasible place where it could be cross-
ed, so as to retard the advance of our forces
toward Petersburg, only a good day's march
distant.
Night and day, at this as well as all other
crossing-places on the river, a strict watch

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.

LIFE IN TiltpBADDL.                               67
was kept for Federal forces and scouts, and officer, "but you must be examined by the
the sight of a blue uniform on the opposite General. Hel look right through you; if
side of the river was as certain to draw fire you mean well, he'll do well by you. If you
as thunder is sure to follow lightning in the do not, he'll swing you up to a tree before
bummer-time.                             you can say the first part of the Lord's Pray
One afternoon, about a week after the cap- er. I'll send you to him at once."
ture of Major Barrett and the Rebels under  "That will suit us, Sir, for we are honest
his connunid, the guard at this post saw a in our intentions, I assure you. We've run
body of Union cavalry, twenty or thereabouts risk enough in getting off to satisfy us. with-
in number, riding slowlyy down the road tow- out risking ourselves any more," said Clifford.
ard the river, evidently bent upon recon-  The officer at once ordered a mounted es-
noitering the position.                  cort, and sent the three men with it to head-
The guard at once opened fire with their quarters.
long-range Minnie rifles upon the Federalists, General Pryor had just dined, and felt in a
who rapidly fell back out of range. But sud- remarkable good-humor over his last glass of
denly three of their nnnmbey were seen to turn grog and cigar when the party were brought
their horses and ride at full speed toward the up and reported to him as deserters who had
river,                                  just escaped across the river, hotly pursued
The Rebecls were about to re-open fire on by their own men.
these daring  adien, when the foremost of  "Deserters, e  e  Fine-looking fellows, too,
ihens tcas seyen to wave a white flag in his better than the ordinary run of Yankees ; no
Inid                                    wonder that they wanted to get out of bad
Tuis, coupled with the fact that the rest of company," said he, cyeing them over his half-
the Federal soldiers fired on those who fled, emptied glass of grog. What were your rea-
madec the omeier of the guard believe that they sons for leaving, Sergeant ?" he asked of Clif-
were de.ei ters trying to get to his lines, and ford, recognizing his rank by his uniform.
he ordered his men not to fire upon the three, "Bad treatment from officers who knew
but to aim at their pursuers if they came with- less of their duty than we did, and used us
in range,                                worse than they did their stolen nigger-serv-
The three horsemen never checked their ants," said Clitord, boldly.
speed as they neared the river, but rode at a "Ah! that was reason enough for you to
headlong rate down the steep bank and into leave such company. Do you wish to serve
the river, which their well-trained horses in the army of the Confederacy ?"
swam very easily.                          "Yes, General, if we can be placed in some
Their pursuers after getting again in range position where we are notin danger of recap.
of the guns of the guard, fired one fruitless ture. We are neither of us afraid of. bullets
 olley and fell back out of sight.      or a touch of cold steel, and know well how
By thunder, that was close shaving," said to deal in both articles, but I have a horror at
ergeant Clitihrd, as he rode up the Western the thou ht of a rope, and so have my com-
hank of the river, showing his white flag with rades. And General Peck has sworn to han
tvo bullct-holes in it, and hishat with another, any men who desert from his division, an
wich must have gone very close to his he'll keep his oath if we should be taken."
-10111.                                   "Well I'll see thart you are kept on duty
ti dii not tell the officer who advanced to aboutthe camp and head-quarters, where you
receie hitmi and his comrades that the bullet- will not be in danger of recapture."
i;-es had lbsI aide before he left camp, but  "Thank you, General, you may depend on
left him to believe that his escape from Yan- us."
Lee bullets had indeed been almost miracu-  "I hope so. And Sergeant, as you seem to
tous.                                    be a man of intelligence, you can take a seat
Who are you, and what are you here here for a while, and inform me of the state
tor ?" was the first question of the officer in of things in the department which you have
command of the Rebel out-post.          just come from, while your comrades go with
"We were soldiers in the Federal cavalry," the escort to their quarters. Tell the post-
id Clitford, acting as spokesman for himself quartermaster that I have ordered a tent for
and the  rest, "but we've been treated like these men, and tell the Commissary to see that
dogs by a set of black republican upstarts, they are rationed, Sergeant Whittlesey."
who think more of a nigger than they do of a  The Sergcant of the escort went off with
white man, and we mane up our minds that Dolan and Bruce, while Clifford remained to
we wouldn't stand it any longer. So here we reply to the questions propounded by the
are; but I shouldn't like to have another such Rebel General.
a shower of bullets come after me as that It is doubtful whether General Pryor learn-
which we had a little while ago." ed much truth from the Sergeant on that oc-
The story seems straight enough," said the casion.

I .

t'
4,
i


T? r
3 i

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
CFIAPTETIXLI[.                Sergeant says that sentinals almost always
Captain Ritadtfrd and Doctor Glover had have the countersign!"
been more than a week confined in their 801 "That is so, and the plan is excellent, i
italry tent without having a visitor except Mr. time is allowed for them to execute it before
Barrett, whosecall and business we explain- we are removed  ts
ed in the fortieth chapter. They were then  "You can make time for them, I think
most agreeably surprised one morning by the father!" said Marvclia.
vi-it of the two daughters of the Doctor, who,  "JHow, my child
fur rcasons wiich will soon beexplained, had  "By getting too sick to be removed. iBoth
{, oveIcomt their repugnance to asking fav- of you get sick, and then we can nurse you.
U1' of the generall as to request the permis- I know the Captain wants the nursing o.
ion whic lhe fhd granted, to be allowed to sister Annie very much !" said Marvelia.
cetheir fattier for onc hour.             "A hir shot in return for my joke about
- I am glad, very glad to see you, my dear Cliflbrd !" said the Captain, laughing o"An
irua,'  toal tthe Doator. "But I am sorry I acknowledge, that I cannot see lPiss Aunie
o o hal to a k the favor     being allowed to any more often than I desire, if it is every
couitt hone the Recbel General."          hour in the dlay !
Father, we would not have (lone so had it  '" Well, get sick-you and father ; andt we
nit been  c  necc-nar for us to see you," will be the most attentive nurses that you
said Annie, in reply. " We have friends in ever saw . said Marvelia, laughing.
this camp, ohwhone presence it wvas very   " We can easily do that, it you will find
c. tarvsn on should be aware, lest your ime some ipecac in your uncles plantation
uddieu iorpri. e at seeing them by-and-by, medicine chest," said thee Doctor.
titirite W  Ltlibeay them !"              "I will try.!' said Annie.
tF friend us Who cmbe so o1l as to try  " What shall we tell the Sergeant for
r .ind us hot c   asked captainn Ratl- you.:" asked Marvelia.  "He will expect
t.  sercant ('lit'1rd, your friend, and one of  "T'ell him for me, that I will never forget
the beravest and noblest inca on earth .' said his kindness, and hope yet to have him for a
Muir v ita, 'thusiatically -brother-in-law !" said           aptain Radford.
S A lihw caine he here !"               "Tell him, that probably, my life depends
"lie andtwo others of his brave scouts, upon his success, but he must not risk his
have luietenlled to desert, anti are here as own to save it. If he saves you from cap-
deserters, only to try to rescue us all from tivity and insult, I am contented. You will
captivity.  hi, is it not noble? I could die be free from persecution until George Bar-
ter the rgave, good man.!"                rett is exchanged, and I hope you will be
1' hail rather hear his praises from your away from here before he returns, for lie is
lips tian timoe of his sister Annie !. said the a fiend without conscience or heart !" said
Captain               - ithe a snile.'I am afraid that it the Doctor.
he freesor body, Miss Marvelia, your       "I hope so; and now farewell for a little
hcart will shillremain captive !"         while, dear father!" said Annie, looking her
Ilhe bluus of Marvehla were her only farewell to the Captain at the same time.
rep .                                    " We will soon see you again; and when you
towy lid you learn of the arrival of these get sick, you will find us the most faithful
tri it.hs L aske I the Doctor.            nurses you ever saw !"
We    u litt- ha l two interviews with Ser-  "I know  it, children-I know  it-God
g :nt Cltird. wihi it app ears has quite won bless you
the liavr it itht GeneraI by his revelations
of natters on the other side. how truthful          CHAPTER XLIII.
th   h as--  eti, the says, the General may  The camp of the Rebel forces, and their
it i outb r *;ti--hy, but not while he is here, lines also, being too well encircled with senti
lie i i. rl'  di I AAnnie.  " And now he nels to permit the escape of persons under
w .ntt us to t1  u thtet lie will ei'ect your surveillance, without great dauger, and all
-tle" ;use! it  urse and hlis own as soon slaves being of that ctass, Mr. Barrett hild
b    l ie waits tot to bt ready no hesitation ' putting Elise and her mothEr
tit' itati, aumttent, for ie and his cone- to work, at the duties to which they had
it'a itlltae ithe lirlt opportunity that formerly performed.
ot itis. 'Chian ill be th te  watchl for it all  'Tis caused Elise, in tier attendance upon
tt   m h     yua. ' ei ticatell gini on duttin1he eiir young mistress, to be very frcquentlIy
(untt    lettind to gam the conhi'eee of thrown into the society of thte Misses Glover
the IRtbel othietrs as  on '; tihsy can. so as -'They att fir.t dlidi not seem to notice her any
tC get a turn at gute' yon. WVhen that murm than they would any other servant, but
oci t-i, th-eel I F. - a         C . ' fort' all a: onc 2 a cthange came over' theme in their

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.                                 69
demeanor. As they seized the first oppor- "You have grown to be positively good for
tunity they could, of seeing and speaking to nothing since you were away with those
her, when they were unobserved by other wretched Yankees. Why are you not sew-
parties, she soon learned the cause of this ing; tell me, you lazy witch  '
alteration in their manner.                 "I sat up until two o'clock this morning,
"I believe, Elise, that you are acquainted mistress, and finished your new dress. Ido
with young mni in tie New York Mount- not knowrof any otler work being ready
ed Rifles, known there by the name of George for me," replied Elise, blushing under the
Bruce !" said Annie to her.               unjust reproof.
The beautitul face of the young octoroon  "Then you should lave told me of mt
flushed up in an instant, and leer voice trem- when you dressed my hair, and I would
bled whteneshee replied,                  have found other work for you- before tinle
"A young gentleman of that name was time. You have been indulged somuch
very kint to inc antimy another, Miss that you have grown lazy and worthless
Annie! client  a friend rescued me from  I want my snufl-colored silk taken to pieces
Major Barrett, and carried my mother and and altered. It is an odious ugly dress; I
myself to Suffolk, where we were fee until leate the color, but I can get no better at
some ie  tl drugged us, and thus were able present; for the  ankees laye ruined our
to carry us past tie Union lines, to the house merchants, and dresses cannot be had for
of Mr. Dashiell. lie wts going to take us to love or money. Where did you get that
Riclemond to sell us, but Major Barrett saw pretty blue of yours, Annie ?"
us, md our oldi master claimed us again  pr"et was bought for me at Norfolk, by a
"how would you like to see Mr. Bruce ?" friend, not long since," replied Miss Glover.
asked Maveia-                             "Do you know what it cost ?" asked Miss
"Not Iere--they would kill him if they Barrett.
saw himn cere, I oul ratherr lie titan to " Only half a dollar a yard !" replied the
mice harm come to hiit "" said Elise, quickly. young lady.
"Ie is here, and at present sate from    "Only half a dollar? Why, this misera-
harm !" said Annie. "Ifyou should happen ble calico that 1 have got on cost ten dot-
to see him, youmust be very careful not to lears a yard in Petersburg ! I wish I had
appear to recognize him; for lie nd two such friends as you avha ed."
other frieitds are hieme, xkho will try once If you and your family had remained true
more to set you free "                    to the Union, you would not havee been
"Oh, dear lady, I am so glad to hear it, wanting such friends," said Miss Glover.
yet I tremble for their dumer lt'"         "Balh !  Where are your friends now,
"'There is no cause of fear at present. when you are forced to remain in our lines,
Warn your mother to be ready to go with and your father's life is in danger Y" sneer-
you at any time when you are called for, ed the Rebel's daughter.
for the earliest chance will be taken by - "We have one friend who will never de-
your friends."                            sert us, or the.cause to which me and our
"I thank you, lady, for telling me, for it father adhere," said Marvelia, proudly.
has put new life in my heart. 1 have wish-  "One friend I If you hadl.twenty they
ed to die ever sime they brought me back ; could not do you any good here. What do
but now I would live-live to prove how you suppose our General would care for your
grateful I cant be to my good friends. Do biend -"
you think that I will see Mr. Bruce soon?" '-"Not much, for I hear that he is a grace-
"Possibly you may. I can send him a less sinner, and no believer in the God in
message if you dc-ire. What shall it be :"  whom  we trust," said' Marvclia, "But we
"Oh, please tell him to be careful, and trust, and fear not,-but that all will be made
not to run into neclless danger. Ills life is right in His good time. Come, Annie, let Oa
very, very precious to-to those whom   he take a walk over to father's tent ; since we
befriends."-                              have permission to go there once a day, we
"lie shall have your message, and I will may as well improve it."
try to arrange it so that you can see him   "I will be ready in a moment," said the
yourself before long."                    sister. "I do not feel very well, and. I have
"Thank you, kind lady; whenever poor Uncle Barrett's permission to get a Seidlita
Elise can serve you she will be but too hap- powder from his medicine-chest. Wait for
py in doing it. And now please excuse me here till I get it, if you please."
me, for 1 hear my young mistress coming,                     --
and she is very cross with me since I caine          CHAPTER XLIV.
back to her."                               It seemed singular, but B3ergeant Clifford
"What are you standing around here for, in some way seemed to have become an isa-
EliseI" cried Miss Barrett,, as she entered. mensefavorite with General Pryor. Whether

ft
r+
i


tF
At I
f7 I
7

r0                          LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
it wa because he had given him full and un- said the General, as he read the document
reserved information iout the Federal for- " I must sec if te  r i ob  eoe.
ces, post, fortifications, etc., which the Rebel And he sent aneorderly for the Surgeon.
General helievedl to be true (which was more  " How nre those two prisoners, Glover and
than Clifford did), or whether it was that his Radford " asked the General, when the Sur.
conversation and remarks proved him to be geon came in.
exeedin gly well posted on military matters,  "Both very sick.  They had what at ft
is more t an I can m ; but my private opin- seemed to he an attack of cholera inorbus,
ion IH, that a little judicious flattery about his violent vomiting and cramping pains-how it
former political position had the most to do seems to be followed by  pver, and entire
with it; the Sergeant having fortunately got prostration of the system !" said the Surgeon.
posessi.n of a fi e of old Richmond papers,  "Then they are not in a state to
in which the General's former speeches were removal and a journey ?" a   obear
printed, and so prepared himself for aptly  "By no means, General-by no means.
quoting striking passages from them.     Their removal would be dangerous in teans-
So far had he got in his favor as to be treme."                           ex-
placed on duty as a Sergeant in the camp.  "I am sorry to hear it, for I have received
guard, and to be promised a commission if an order to send them on to Richmond.
the General's influence could obtain it from Have the kindness to report to me the mo-
Richmond, and, when it came, a position on ment they are fit for removal."
the General's staff.                      "Certainly, General ; they are well nursed
As he possessed an excellent education, be- and attended by the Doctors daughters; and
ing well versed in languages, sciences, etc., with such care and a judicious use of mcdi-
the General did not consider it at all beneath cine, it will not be likely to be a great while
his dignity to send for him occasionally to before they are convalescent !"
do a little writing for him; for ie was sure to  "Very well Sir; spare no pains with them,
alluded to, with which he had in former them away. Ser meant Clifford, draw meud
times electrified thu cars of his party in Con- a letter to the department at Richmond,
gr ' stating the cause of my delay in sending them
Of course, as the Sergeant vouched for the on."
loyalty and ultra Southern feelings of his  "Yes, Sir."
friends (I)olan and Bruce) they we; it placed And the Sergeant hastened to write a letter
duty as he advised ; and thtey took great In the "high-flown" language which lhe
pains, by their attentin to duty and their know suited the General.
litter and frequent denunciation of their  " Will that do, Sir ?" he asked, as he in a
tirer comrades in arms, to win the favor of few minutes presented the letter for the Gen-
the lkeloffnicers and imen with whom they erl to peruse and sign-
toiw"pitall                    well, Sergeanteapitally well.
Thus matters with them were soon in a Y ou are invaluable as a secretary. t must
very golmitr. Their only tear was the re- have you on moy yatf, for I have no one near
t urn of :iajor B rrett.  whn, if exchanged, me who is so read ywt  i e  syusl.
i od know them   s sirecent captors ai                 with his pen as youself.
as scouts, and, of course, the most trusty          CIIAVI'E   XLV-
me llnc in the Union ranks.  Therefore,  On the very nextmoritg aler th  rival
thter watched every chace for forwarding of the order for their being sent to rieaond
treir plai to rescue those whom they came to came, the sentinel placed over Doctor Glover
s te. They famiiarized themselves as much and Captain tadford was John Dolan-a
a  porsitle withthe grounds, the stables matter managed easily by Clifford, who was
h e thietl'et(.t hrscs were kept, the post Sergeant of the guard durin that day.
at which every sentinel from the camp to the  ie had purposely avoidechaving an inter-
picket-guards wa placed.               view himself with the two prisoners, so that
klinford lie unusual advantages; for the no Rebel could gather a suspicion of either
kindness of the General was such that he his acquaintance with or friendship for them.
was often mounted on one of his own horses, His messages had all been conveyed through
and allowed to ride out with his orderlies the daughters of Doctor Glover, whom ie
when the General rode out for exercise or to had managed to meet in their evening-walks
isit the outposts.                     about the ground, and to speak with without
lie was present in the quarters of the Gen- being detected.
erl one day, when an order came for him to  But now, as the time for putting his plans
tend Captain Radford up to Richmond for for their escape into execution drew neces
exchange, and the Doctor for trial.     sarily very near, lie commenced his arrange.
"They are sick, the Surgeon report !" meats by getting one of his confederates upon

LIFE IN THiE SADDLE.                              71
post there, so as to let hin know who the shall be off in two hours from the time i came
persons were that lie was to aid ; for neither on       than to say to him that we
Bruce or Dolan had been before acquainted   Nothing more thnever he tat we
with the Doctor or the Captain.         are rads to move whenever he says the
Dolan had not been a great while on post, word. Our sham  sickness will soon passed
standienaged t.o toss a note inside, in which  Very well, Sir; I willet him know. Here
was a statement of is name and business, to come the young ladies. I will resume my
the Captain, and that he could be trusted, as beat."
tie knew of all the arrangements which Clif-  And Dolan moved a few taes far.therps back,
ford was making for their escape.       when the young ladles, exhibiting their pass
When the Captain saw the note fall on the to him, entered the tent.
floor,he rose from his cot with remarkable ".Are you aware that the order has come
alacrity for one so very sick, as the Post-Sur- for our removal to Richmond, my girls," ask-
goon considered him to be, and when he read ed the Doctor when they cane in.
ot, e communicated its contents to the Doe- "Yes, Sir," replied Ane, " Sergeant Clif-
tor.  e then in a low tone commenced ask- for told us of i Ias n  bu   e a sa
lag Dolan a few questions-              that the Surgeon had pronounced you too ill
"How soon does the Sergeant propose to to be removed."
make. the attempt ?" he asked.             "Yes, but it shows how anxious they are
Upo  th  frststomynigtSir, when to get through with my case. But I may,
the rain will make the srmy niels ttake shelter with God's help, give them the slip yet."
if they can, ard wash out our tracks. The  "Yes, Sir, we feel sure you will. f he Ser-
soonerye can get off the better, he says; for geant has picked out the horses which we are
the order her your removal to Richmond ias to take, and got everything planned for our
coe, and only your sickness keeps them  escape. He only waits now for a stormy
from sending you away I"                 night--the sooner it comes the better."
"Then we shall keep sick till it storms, the "Yes ; for only every hour increases our
Sergeant may rest assured, and you will so danger."
tell him. Do you think our escape can be
managed Faily ?"CHPE                                          XVI
"Perhiapd not very easily, Sir, but it will be  At last a day arrived which seemed to be
managed. When    ergeit Clifford under- propitious. A chilling rainstorm, with the
takes anything he generally goes through wind at northeast commenced early in the
with it."                                day, which promised to continue apparently
"You seem to trust in him, as he says in for some considerable time, as storms in that
his note lie does in you, fully."        section do, when they come from the North
" I ought to, Sir; for he has led me into and eastward.
many a scrape' which I never thought to get  It was a day of intense mental anxiety and
out of, but out I caine all sate under his man- preparation to every one involved in the plot
agemnt.'                               to escape. Each understood the part which
"Well if he gets us away from the Rebels they were expected to take, for Clifford, as
'.lis time, I'll w orkik c1 l)power at my corn- chief manager of the entire affair, had instruct-
mand to get him and those who aid cu liro- ed every one how to act, and where to meet
auted,                                  the others at the designated hour.
"riat will be a hard matter, Sir, in these  Elise and her mother were, at a few mm-
times. Neither of us are politicians or party- utes alter midnight, to leave the house of Mr.
men, we arc only soldiers, and commissions .Barrett secretly, in company with Doctor
are too valuable as political bribes and re- Glover's two  au hters, and proceed to a
wards to be given to men of our class. I thick piece of woods, near the corner of which
know a General, Sir, net a hundred miles in a narrow lane, they were all to remain un-
from here now, in the Federal service, who lii joined by Doctor 0  .loer, Captain ladford,
eed to mix my toddy before the war broke an the three soldiers, with horses.
out, and another of the satne rank who was  The Doctor and the Captain were to offer
thought to be only a second-rate ward-poll- their sentinel, soon after the midnight-relief,
tician. But he had big influence ; so he got some liquor to keep out the wet ; and it had
a start."                                already been well drugged, and provided by
"It is too true that party begets favor, Clifford, who was, in ease the sentinel refus-
where merit is never seen," acid the Captain, ed the liquor, to steal upol him and gag and
indignantly. "But this state of things will bind him securely, where lie would remain
not last forever."                       unnoticed until the next relief came around.
I hope not, Sir. Have you any word to    Clifford, acting as secretary for the General,
send the Sergeant when I leave the post? I had no difficulty in getting the countersign,

fl

l


j I
'I
1, ;

72                          LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
and he had picked out the horses of the Gen- sign is Zollicoffer-and here is a pass for each
eral and his state as thosc he intended to take, of you to pass bearer and company. It is
they being the best in blood, speed, and bot- written on head-quarter's paper, and I doubt
tom at the post.                         if Pryor himself would not believe it to be
lie had also secured arms and ammunition his own signature. You know where we all
for the males of the party, so as to be ready are to meet, and the road we are to take is
for a desperate resistance if their recapture that to Joiner's Ford on the Blackwa'er.
was attempted. For he well knew that, if he There is only a picket there of a corporal
and 1is two companions should be taken, and six men, and en a night like this it i3
nuLii would save them from being hung as not likely that they will keep any guard at
epics.                                   all. If they do not, and we cross there un-
As the day wore slowly on, he managed to seen, this rain will so wash out our tracks
let eaci oUC know that he would assuredly that the Iebs will have no idea what route
attanpt to get them  off that night as pre  we have taken, and we will get into our lines
iously agreed upon, and he again and again scot free of pursuit. But if they are on guard
passed the stab es where the horses were there, we can cut our way through ; we have
stalled which ho intended to take, making no other course to pursue, and if then we are
excuses to look at them, and marked well in followed, speed must save us!"
his memoomy where and how every horse      " That is so. If the women can stand the
stood, and where the saddles ad bridles fatigue, I have no fear but what we will get
were, for he knew that he must take them in through!' said Bruce.
the dark, and delays orgrrs would be fatal  "They will stand it, no matter how much
to succ  .                               they suffer," said Clifford. "A true woman
As uoon as it was dark, he stealthily lkft has ten times as much enduring perseverance
his quart rs v ith implements which he had as a man, when she sets her heart upon it.
g.,t r a ly, and spike'i every battery and If we find we nre not pursued, after we get
l.argeg:n it the post, so as to prevent any across the river, we will move at as easy ii
a'arm 1t og gis en at out posts by the firing gait as possible. for their sakes. If it did not
t tcnn':!                               make so much noise and was not slower, I
in at. he tmitted no precaution, let nothi- would for them take a carriage. But that is
.ag ce a e his mind which could aid him in out of the question, for we could not pass the
u hit h kn w  as a risk as fearlul as the lines in one without too close questioning for
attema ut w as daring,                   our safety. By the way, boys, have 'ou
It n as about ten o'clock, when, having tilled your canteens and haversacks? You
founI out at the guardtent who was to go must not forget that food and drink will be
cn the midnight-relief at the prisoners' tent, useful on the road, to keep up strength
u a     dI  te hiis joy that the nina was a yitlh."
e  ;uI l ruini-ueker, who would never he  "'We have filled our own and yours too,'
yo refusing a gh s of grog under any said Dolan.
.: uLi -taz   itford returned to his quar-  "Thank you. I have a bottle of prime
..tl hour w en the attempt w.as liquor here which the General made ime a
. -present of this evening, that we will take
dLBruce and Dolan both there. con- along to use as a restorative when needed.
n   .   and ready to move, but hitting Ah! there is an arrival in camp; Isee horse-
r. ter it wais alter the "taps', and a men going toward the General's quarters.
L i  ay whet e acept in an officer's I'll creep over and see who has come. Keep
r   would hat o excited suspicion, and esv, until I come back, and lon't get sleepy,
preLe inquiry into the cause of its being for~I think it will soon be time for us to be
theregetting the horses ready."
H Uiw do you feel, boys ?" asked the Ser-  The Sergeant now stole away silently tow-
gfen',  i entered the tent and learned ard head-quarters, to learn who had ar-
by their low-toned conversation that they rived, for there appeared to be an unusual
vccre there                             bustle around the quarters of the command-
"I feel as if I would like to be once more iugGeneral.
in the saddle, riding at a swinging gallopat  ie was gone only a few minutes, and there
least a mile or two beyond the I&amp;bel lines !" was that in his tone when lie spoke to sis
laid Dolan.                              comrades that told them he was alarmed and
4"And I feel fit to fight fifty Reba, if they had cause for it.
should try to stop us from getting off!" said  "Boys!I" said he, "that infernal devil.
Bruce. "Is everything right so far, 8er- Major Barret, has come, and is at the Gen-
!eant"                                   erals quarters now. If he finds out that we
" Yes, I believe so. If anything happens ,are here, I'm afraid it is all up with us , for
to me to-night, boys, remember the counter- he knows too well how we were thought of

LIFE IN TILE SADDLE.175
In our reghnent, to believe in the tale of our said Annie.  " Oh ! do not think of going
desertion."                              without them .
"How the deuce came he here just at this "Of course not, lady 1 of course not b" said
time ?" asked Dolatn.                    Clifford, in a low tone; "they will be here
" Why, he has had the luck to get an early soon. It will take them a few minutes longer
e   ange this time, just as lie did before, I than we, for they have to use the drugged
su ose. There are four or live other officers liquor on the new sentinel; and it will take
with him, at the Generals, and they are all some little time for it to take effect. I will
drinking and talking. Perhaps we can get go to meet them. In the meantime, my
off before our names happen to be mentioned friends tere will getyou mounted as silently
in his hearing. 1 hope so, for if he does hear as possible; for not a moment must be lost"
of us, I don't believe he'd rest until he had a  And the Sergeant hurried off in the dark
guard over us, to carry out his own spite, it ness and the pelting rain; while Bruce and
for nothing else. I wish he had been a day Dolan assisted th women to moun  e m
later, at any rate, and then I wouldn't care gentle of the horses.
what had become of' him."                 Clifford had1 to g1 all the way to the prison-
"You will not hesitate in our plan, will era' tent to find thm, and it was well that he
you ?" asked Bruce.                      did; for alhon  they ad succeeded in
" No, indeed ; not for'an instant. We may drugging their sentinel intodinsensil)h ty,
as well get our things on and creep toward they were lot how to proceed to reach the
the stables now as not. It will take us some rendezvous; fur, in the darkness and storm,
time to get the horses out, and to the place they had lost the course which they ought to
where they at wanted. Aind the noise they take to get the pine-wood which had been
are making at head-quarters, with all this pointed out to t,:it in the daytime.
wind and rain, will keep any one from hear-  '"Are my daughters at the point agreed
Ing us, I reckon. Be careful of your arms upon :" asled the Doctor as soon as Cliford
and keen their in order, for if we are diseov- joined hum andhis companion.
ered we hiave nothing on earth to save us but  " Yes, Sir, iod  'unted before this time.
fighting. It will be rope for our necks, you You must ma he haste to join them, gentle-
know, if we are taken. And now, follow   men, for there is :(ew danger abroad. That
me, boys, and be as silent as a mouse-watch- nuicrable lien!, Major Baurett,r as-just got
ing cat i '                              into ecaip, :ut 1  idriniking over at the Gea-
gemal' cqua'arnt e                      n he gets excited with
liquor, he inmy t  ' it into his brutal head to
CHAPTER XLVII.                visit your quai  ; audt' ie does, we shall
The flrt prisons at the reudervous pointed find Vumsuia both huisty and httt."
out by Clitlord, the corner of the pine-wood  "'1 rue! true! Lead on and we will fol-
near the Rebelt camp, were the two Misses low," said he )n c;or.
Glover and Ehise and her mother.  All of    I wou- 1 l  ic .3 11my pay forthis war, If
them were disguised in men's clothes, which we hdl no 'o ui;umwith us, if the infernal
had been provided for them by Clitord, and rascal would iel ow1u 0so that I could mna-
the gloom of the night concealed blushing sure swords with m iteon fair ground. I owe
cheeks caused by their strange ppar'el-hin a gd     ohi nothing but his blood
There they stood shivering in the drenching can era-c-. 1i, herthe sake of the ladies, I
rain and the chilly northeastern wind for hope we s i hi, e no pursuit," said Rad-
near half an mhour, nor daring to speak kfor ford.
fear some Rebel sentinel might be in       C'if-ord miii  o tn wer, but led thertwo
hearing, and trembling with dread all the gentlemea awihtiy toward the place where
time lest something should occur to prevent, the horses weie waiting.
the other prisoners and Clitford and his  in a few itn ile utall were mounted, and ar-
parmty from coining to them.           ranged so olitm' Captaini rode directly by
But f a little while after they had heard the side of A mio ani next to Clifford, who,
the guards go the rounds for the midight- as guide, ledt ime w.). Marvelia rode by the
relief which they could distinguish by the side of her lather in time column, Elise beside
loud "Halt I who comes there '" of the vii- Bruce, andi her mithiser by the side of Dolan,
rious sentinels, the trammp of horses on the who brought utiletl'rear.
sandy ground close to them was heard, and, "Now, orard tt a walk until we clear
a moment after, Clifford and his companions, the camp-lines, ant keep up with me," said
with nine led horses, reached the spot.  Clifford.  "Be careitl to keep me within
"Are you all here 2" asked Clifford, in a sight or lein-lg mll the time. Sit firm in
low tone, as he halted by the fence, close to your saddles, keep a steady rein, and don't
which the women croucheth.              straggle."
"All but my father and Captain Radford,"  These words uttered, he moved on at a fast

I'
'I

T
3


I
I
]
I
:3

74                          LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
walk, for some hundred or two yards, and on me to show that I offered them any resist.
then struck into a trot.                 ance," said the Doctor, in a tone of stinging
At that moment the report of a musket was sarcasm.
heard ; and, upon lo king back toward the  " By the God of War, Sir, (10 you dare t
Rebel camp, lights were seen fleshing from  impute cowardice to me Y" thundered  e
point to point, and bugles could be heard Major, springing to his feet.
SOun(ing the assembly-call.              '"Take lily remark as you chose, Sir ; I
"Forward at full speed, close together !" a Georgian, and never eat my words," said
cried Clifford, " they have discovered our the I)octor, coolly.
escapee in soein way, and will be alter us in a  "'ihen eat that !" said the Major, thorough.
few minutes. All depends on speed now, if' ly enraged, and he threw a bottle at the head
they should discover our track ; but it rains in of the Surgeon.
torrents now, and it will be hard work to do  The latter was sober enough to dodge the
that."                                   missile, and he quietly remarked as he did
And on at a full gallop swept the fugitives, so:
confident only in their guide for it was utter "I will give you something harder to
darkuis all around them.                dodge than that in the morning, Sir. You
- -                    may consider yourself challenged ; I will send
CIIAPTER XLVIII.               a friend to you in due time."
Clifford was correct in his statement that  "Very well; I am ready for you and your
Major George Barrett had been exchanged friends at any time," replied the Major.
and returned to camp, for although it was  "Gentlemen, gentlemen! Yiu seem to for-
nor  midnight when he and several other get where you are," said the General, sternly,
oflleei s from Richiiiond ari ived, the General " This matter must go no fort lir. The Con-
w asstill up in his quarters, anid only too glad federacy has better use for its oilicers than to
to have eoinny to join im over his bottle. lose them in dueling
General matters at the capital and war-  "'The Major, Sir, inipngns my honor when
news from the various parts 1 the Confeder- lie insinuates that I do not know my duty,"
icy was the ti nme of conversation for the said the Surgeon.
irat houror  o  liilelhes and to ldies,  " I did not mean to insinuate anything of
hot an lcoil, accordin; to the taste of the the kind, Sir, for I know of no one man who
Gener al' guest., lt lt it ir tongues in good stands higher in your prioion in the Army
running older.                           than   ou ho," said the Major. who began to
At hut, iittcrs in thit xljinity came upon feel that he hind gone too far itr his own safe-
the carpet ai I1 then Mai r Barrett asked how  ty, for the Dahctor was well known as a splen-
his prisoners, )octor Glover anti Captain d itshot and practiced duelist.
flatitord, got along.                      " Then if you (I not mean that I did not
'They ate both very tick," said the Gener- know my duty, I willingly withdraw my of-
al. I lul or des to sent them to Richmond I fensive remarks, made only in a spirit ofro-
t wo weeks ago, but the Surgeon pronounced t:aliation," said the Doctor.
them unable to be novell'               " h'At is right, gentlemen ; I had rather see
I'll bet ten dollars to one that they are ;one reconeiiation than a dozen duels now,
shimmning .ick, just to keep 11rom being sent though I weas once exceedingly belligerent in'
tliec e" sald Major lhtrret, who began to feel that line myseh," sail the General. " Fill
the liquor he ha h takn. " The Captain is your glas:e, all hands, and drink to friend-
ont r .ea I un h ears in love with Annie I ship forever, among ourselves at least.
Gloi cr, .a.:i Iihe i 1 tr news well enoughlm  " I will do so willingly, and I am very glad,
t ti "it ri e ih h l  op for his ti eason if' lie 'Doct or, the bottle which I threw missed your
oat    e ti I R:  nn ' bonit. "Ill bet twtnty head. I would not have hurt you for the
. at  t  .: '   i)more sick thin 'I world," said the Major.
S   .   .rar"'The contusion                               of glass vessels, especially
I b'ke ve, Sir t  I know my busincs if attended with abrasion, is very unpleasant,"
ra!r to) nf el to b' insisted on by any man said the Dictor," and I am glad that we have
or non, ' sid the 1'at-urgeon, who usually no wounds to heal on this occasion. I drink
nt his evenings s itth the General, over a  -our health, Major, and if you go with me as
lit of cards and his liquor, and whose pride I pass their tent on my way to my quarters,
s   lather tanched by the insinuation that we will look in on Doctor Glover and Cap-
L , patients could deceive him.          tain Radford, and see how they really are."
- You don't know Yankees and traitors as  "I will go with you with pleasure," said
;l 'Il as I do, Sir,' said the Major, tartly.  the Major, all his anger having passed away.
"Piobably iit, Sir; I haven't had the   And now the reader probably can guess
konor of being taken prisoner twice by them  how the absence of the prisoners was discov-
iu as many months without having a scratch ered.

I

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.                                75
CHAPTER XLIX.                 on hand, and the Major ordered the camp
After taking the "making-up glass", the searched immediately, and the bugles of his
Doctor and the Major became so friendly that own regiment to sound the call to boots and
they left the quarters of the' General arn in saddle, while he and the Doctor hurried to re-
nn, and proceeded through the drenching port the escape of the prisoners to the General.
ra   under the same umbrella to the tent   The General, who was just taking a" night-
where the two prisoners had been confined. cap" glass with his guests, was astounded at
- The sentinel is devilish negligent, or else the report.
he is asleep," said the Dcctor, as they ap- "They must have had help ; for I will swear
preached the tent without being hailed. "if they were too weak to move without assist-
hey were not so sick that there is no danger ance," said the Doctor.
of their escape, such carelessness should be  " I wonder where Sergeant Clifford is ?
severely punished."                      said the General, a suspicious thought corn-
"Thunder, what is that 1" cried the Major, ing into his mind at that moment ; for he had
as he stumbled 'against the body of the drum- been told by one of his orderlies that the 8cr-
ged sentinel, who lay prone upon the ground, geant was very "thick" with the daughters
nearly falling, only being saved by the hold of Doctor Glover.
which the D octor had of his arm.          "Clifford - what Cli-ford ?" asked Major
"Either a dead or ar sleeping man," cried Barrett.
the Doctor, bending down 'and feeling the  "Why, Sergeant Clifford, a deserter from the
body.                                    Yankees, who has been in camp these three
And then he rushed forward into the tent ; weeks. He and two men, named Bruce and
and, seizing a small "sick-lamp" which was Dolan, deserted to us at the sane time, and
always kept lighted on the table, without ran a good deal of risk in getting off."
waiting to look at the beds or their occupants, ." Bruce and Dolan ?" cried Major Barrett,
he hurried out to see what was the matter in gaping wonderment.
with the man, protecting the light from the  ' Yes," said the General, "do you know
wind and rain with his hat,              anything of them? Your surprise betokens
" Dead drunk, the miserable beast "lie that you do."
amutlred, as he rolled the man over. "lie  " 1 reckon I do know them," said the
breathes like a porpoise."               Major. "Why, General, those were the two
"Too drunk for this duty ;lie's a case for men who surprised and captured me the first
riding a wooden horse to-morrow," said the time. And this Sergeant Clifford is the fel-
Major, picking up the sentinel's gun. "ill low who stole my horse and escaped when I
have him relieved before I go to bed."   was bringing Glover and Radford in, and who
"Let him lie in the rain until the rum is afterward piloted the Yankee force which
soaked out of him," said the )octor. " It surprised and defeated and captured me the
won't hurt him a bit. Now we'll go in and second time. The scoundrels were the trus-
see the patients."                       tiest scouts the enemy had,,and instead of
"W here the devil are they ?" asked the being deserters they are spies. They un-
Major us he looked at the two empty cots doubtedly are the ones who helped the pris-
when lie got into the tent.              oners to escape."
"Jupiter and Mars ! where are they indeed?  "Orderly, go to their quarters and see If
cried the Doctor, staring in stupid amazement they are there ; and if not, have the long roll
at the empty cots. "They are certainly gone beat at once. Searching-parties must be sent
from here, and 1 could have sworn that they in every direction to look after them. I will
were not able to walk across the tent. Why, give a thousand dollars' reward for them If
they've not eaten a full meal of victuals in they have played so hold a trick on me."
two weeks."                               'Ilie orderly hurried away, and soon after
'What is this in this flask?" asked the the long roll was heard, alarming the whole
Major, uncorking a large flask, and smelling camp and announcing,o ven before the order-
Its contents.                            ly returned to report, that the supposed de-
Drugged liquor, by thunder !" cried the sorters were gone.
Doctor, as he placed the neck of the bottle to "Have all the cavalry mounted at onee;
his nose. "That is what is the matter of the Sir," said the General to a statl-officer, who
sentinel. The poor devil has been drugged, hurried into his quarters. "I will have or-
and these men have escaped ; but they cannot ders for each' regiment by the tune they are
be far off, for they were miserably weak, I in the saddle."
know."                                     The officer hurried out to obey the order,
" We'll soon see," cried the Major, as he and at the same time the father of Major Bar-
went to the entrance and tired off the musket ret came in.
and shouted for the guard.                 "You here, George ?" he asked, st he saw
The Sergeant and-a squad of men were soon his son. "What is the matter ?"


t
T=

7t                          LIFE IN TUE SADDLE.
" Why Doctor Clover, the infernal old . take the road to Jonier's Ford  for it is
curse, and Captain RIlaiord have escaped."  blind track to one who does not know it
"The deuce!. and I just came to tell the well, which I happen to; and the crossing i
General that the 1)octor : girls and two of easy, which Clifford may have thought ot; a
my nigger-wom.n are gone from my house." he has women aloug."
Il1 bet filly tdollirs Elhie is one of them !"  - Very well, Major. The parties shalb
isaid the Maj01'.                        sent as youtdvse   how manyme'ae}c;
" Yes. She dnt her mother are gone."  going to take with .-o  ma
1You are a sharp set all around to let three  " Only a few ; not more thtan a dozen, fr
Yankee scouts come into camp and get off we have only live imen to ofier restxance.'
ever prisoner we h 1 worth keeping !" cried  " But they will be desperate, Major ;f
the Mfajor, in dlisgust. " I must get into the they know that there wi1 be no mercy icr
saddle ; for 111 Inev er eat until I have the them  when taken. Take at least twenty
whole lot back here an I in irons. They Iwith?-on!"
wouldn't have escaped if they had George   "   rciy well. General,-I will do so. Iere
Barrett to watch over theni"            comes my horse and aims. I will be oe the
"General! all your horses are gone from  road with my men in ten minutes. if the
the stable " cried one ut' his orderlies, rush- rest are off soon, the fugitives must be over-
ing in.                                  taken somewhere this side of the Yankee
" Hell and fury ! the best stud of horses in lines."
Virginia gone!' cried the General, in a rav-
ing passion. "I'll have every man in camp,            CIIAPTER L.
foot and horse, out after thon. Ill give five  Fortunately for those who had to follow
thousand dollars to the party which will him, the sia and powerful horse which
bring back the priusoners ant iy horses. Clitford rode on that night was a light ;ray
Major. what itmt ee mid yeu old uadie to send and thus, cxen in the goon, the riders next
forces out on? '                         to him could tee his horse, and the others fol-
Upon every on' that reaches a place lowed, trusting f tr more to the instinct and
where the Ilackwa:er can U crossed ! re- sure-footedness of their animals than to ti
plied the Major, who 1n-1 just sent, an orderly rein.
after his houre and arm,.  " That Clithord  On swiftly, without a word being spoken by
knows every part of the country, fhr scouting any one, they rode for miles ; now brushing
has been   li  b.uiut ssalt)gethter.  llow  past the wet limbs of bushes itin the narrow
long can they tt v een gone '         road, then coniing out in cleared spaces ; but
Not more thuami an hour at thie turtliest," without seeing a light or even a house, though
said the otiler of the guard. " I wient the more than once they heard the baying of
grand rounds it iidnigt, tind then the sen- watchdogs near, whose quick cars or keen
tinels w ere changedI. Ihey had c, uudouh- scent had detected strangers on the road.
c:lly, gone snce then.'                   At last, after a sharp) gallop of nearly two
Ye1.  ilhy eaiunot have a great deal the hours, Clitford dew up into a walk, and salid
start ; but hit -they Iave the tet horse that to the party, in a low tone
were at tNil i t,tsail th tGeneral. "I nev-  "We tiust proceed more slowly, and with
cr i as su acctive I i mty life au 1was in that great silence and caution now, for we arc
Clitifrd. I would havec staked my life oin his near the place where we must ford the river.
devotion to tie Cont' lerate cause. He must Keep firm seats, the water is not over four
be taken. dead or alive , fhr he has secrets oh flet deep, and the bottom is good. If tlie sea-
ours i hieth 1m-t ill". er get into the Federal tine should happen to be on his post, and give
lines. Major Barrett, 'iose for yourself the the alarm, follow mae anl regulate your speed
route which Iu think he has taken ; and if by mine !'
you get him, look tor a coloaclcy, if my inilu-  Obedient to his wishes, they now moved
CC ue an g t it '                       slowly on in a compact column, their horses'
" ('an ) ou nt track tihe horcN from the heet hardly heard timid the heavy falling of
stable ' aie   ti'Major tf thme orderly who the rain, anti the roar of the wind through a
had rcxn toed them as :;one.            forest which they were approaching.
No, Sir. 'hl' s'tes are running fetloch-  It was so dark that none of thiei saw the
deep in sater, and no track will lie a inn- river until the horse of Clitford plunged into
bntt."it off the rather steep bank.
"Then we must go by guess-work. If you   At that instant a loud voice on their left
will take my advize, General, you will send shouted :
one party to the Zuni crossing, another to - "Halt, who goes there ?"
Blac kwater Bridge. anl two more to Frank-  No answer was given, and the sentinel
in and South Quay, for they may go a long shouted again:
way around, to put us oil the track. I will  "tlit, or I lire!1 Who goes there"

4

LIFE IN T lE SADDLE.                               75
"Forward, keep close up to me !" said knew how much depended upon their being
Clifford, just loud enough to be heard by his able to bear up against the fatigue of riding
own party, and his horse plunged rapidly so rapidly and in a style so utterly new to
The next moment, the flash of a gun was   ie saw that, in spite of their endeavor to
seen-its ball went whistling over their show a cheerfulness which they did not feel,
heads, and the woods echoed and re-echoed that the Misses Glover were very tired; and,
to the report.                           upon arriving at a house by the roadside,
None of the party were hurt, however ; and where two or three mangy curs, a half-dozen
in a few seconds the opposite bank was gained red-headed, dirty-laced, and seantily-clothed
in afety, and again they were gaf)oping children, and a gaunt, sallow-lookiig wom-
tong a sandy rowel through a pine-forest, as an appeared at the door, he called a halt, for
they could hear by the sound which the wind a smoking chnney betokened that there
miole in sweeping through the tree-tops.  was a tire within.
" Ilow  do the ladies' stand the ride ?"  "\We will halt and rest here for half an
asked Clifford, after they had got a mile or hour,' he said. ;  the ladies need it. and the
'two from the river, speaking for the first time horses will go all the better for it afterward.
in a loud and clear tone.                Open haversacks and canteeus, boys-this
""I can say for myself that I stand it well. will be our only chance to refresh before we
I am scarcely at all htigued!" said Annie get inside of our liues. .
(,lover, cheerfully.
..And I can ride for ten hours yet, if this  As he was the chosen leader of the party,
noble ioro don't get tired out!" said Mar- to whose care and management all of them
veli.                                   implicitly trusted, no voice diesented from this
" how far is it to the Union lines ?" asked movement; and soon all hut Clifford and his
Captain liadtord.                       two men, who remained outside to watch the
-About tw enty one or two miles from   road and attend to the horses, were ensconced
here, by the route which we iust take!" said before a huge blazing tire, drying their steam-
Clitford.                                lug garments, md partaking o aSme food
"Do you think we will be followed ?" most necess-uy to invigorate and strengthen
asked Doctor Glover.                     their bodies.
"Of course, we will. But it is not conse-  Seemg how jmichi good this rest was doing
qluent, however, that we can be overtaken. both- the party and the horses, and having
We have excellent horses and a good start. found some good green corn-fodder for the
if we had not been seen, or rather-heard, by latter to feed on. Clifford allowed his prom*
the sentinel at Joiner's Ford, I should feel no ised rest of half an hour to extend to an
anxiety whatever. But if a party from the hour; and then, having the horses bitted
Rebel camp comes to the ford, his report will again. lie got his party motintetl 011C more.
send them along this road after us to a cci-  And it was done just in the nick of time ;
tainty !"                                for they had not moved a rod from the door
"Then we had best keep moving as rapdi- before a loud shout was heard in their rear;
ly as possible !" said the Doctor.       and, looking back, Clifford saw that a party of
"Yes; but not so fast as to disable the Rebel cavalry, at full speed, was in chase of
horses from makin " a dash if we have to call them.
on them for it.  Whey are good horses, but  The policy of hat in  rested awl fed their
the muddy roads and slippery going is telling horses was at once nat e apparent now. For
on them. How do your parties get on there a loose rein was given to them, and in a few
in the rear?"                        ,   moments they sped completely out. of sight of
"Very well'!" said Dolan. " But I wish the following party.
this 'rain was over. It has soaked into the  "1)id you recogize the man who was at
very marrow of my rheumatic bones !"     the head of the party in chase of us ."Clifford
I hope it will continue for a while longer, asked of Captain Radforl.
at least !" said Cliford, " for it washes out  "I did piot-did you ,ndgeaMt a
our tracks."                               " Yes, it was your parteular friend, Major
But as day began to dawn, the rai de- Barrett !"
creased ; an(l when it was light enough to dis-  "'Then he hal better beware how he comes
tinguish faces plainly, it ceased altogether.  within range ol my 1it0l !' said the Cap-
And when, a Half-hour later, a warm sun tain.
rose to take the damp chill from their thor-  "Or my ruile either, for I think this Eng-
oughly-soaked persons, no one felt the worse lish-made Entield will carry true to its aim.!"
for it.                                  said Bruce.
Clifford glanced anxiously at the ladies
when the light enabled him to do so, for ho

II
Mv

i

I
,'
II

'


S
t{
4
41
f
ii

CIIA PIlERIC I.
Clifford wasC i high glee when he found
how easily his rfreeed horses made awnj
from his pustues ; an I told the ladies, that
with such yci "tidihy aeed not fear any dan-
ger of ye atl1n, ifr two hours more would
ets, Wlic \i \r':.iways liotimi one to two Coi
paine tsit twn: a the oiit t
iere is i sp t which I think Major Bar-
rett will reiwrhir in el r " lie laughingly bald,
as thee ci.' tot ato 0peni ldidith a forci
pcWhy lt  ut i  'I lLtlford. " Is there any
"geciaty aloutyi
Iiahit'r to ! it was here where I guided
the Mounte I Iil ;into his ear, and where
he was la-t uoret I.''
"lie will ciiiniher it then, I reckon
raid RItt  i,.jitiltin iithe laugh.
TheI'e mi  t t Till b, li p lily ca e ein si lit of
the stream i. aiiti te l.1-aui died r  Clittorl s
lips, and tm Li ecrlfor a  moment, Went slim
his face. utt Inn ti  iv tmt the brige was
ne.  11 hal eapeete i  tsthe rcbl troops
had rehu :t it to cro  upon, that it would
have beeni l st. ttit they, in their retreat
had aaiu te tivJ 1lit.
- Tih is i, o Ve thin I dreamed of!" he
saiJ, in a il  tine, to R idiord.  Do you
think you eto:1 i mike a raft and ferry the
ladies aer i .; aih- Bruce, lDolan, and inyselt;
go up the inui an I try to kee the enemy in
check?   For ue has e to ri e a mile back
on this roiadii (lim, before we can take the
lane which leads irounil the swamp !'
"If there is any fighting to do, I must be in
it !" sid the Captain, firmly.
But the ladies must be saved-if they
were once over tlit creek, it is but a few
miles toa our icke:. If there was a landing-
place on the iothr side fitr our horses, we
could ass oEitis r but ltre is not" ,
"bSermmt i 'a      vouhI'd tiny the road
back !" san 1 Dol.m i
" Yes,"  liat irBice, "the ladies can keep
togehier in te m ir , aind ii the Rebels should
meet us loure u  ict to the turnout, why, we
can drop t be ilet  at long-range, and cut
our way throu h toe ret. There are not
more than t acci ': of tiein, and we've gone
through i trs t' i  titan that beire now '
'" es, but ne liii no helpless ones tto
watch. lth iiocr onl b chance now.  'I'
the front I hii: ~ oU -' ue, and don t spare
youir lom , tipa
And tic h tc  uct tot n"-I and led the way
back  up  tii  riaim :i i s sti e'hita.
Clo  leilI li m  cllowe lDolan, Bruce,
and C'a'p: ,: i . 4  while l)octor Glover,
special ii'"u. !ti  t d ti) so, rod with th
ais m me i ii.                    e-
"~~~~ Tnm    ,.live minutes moure-

andy wewillcbed h the lane before they camp
I cut us off!" cried Chiilbrd.
Five minutes-breathiles minutes--passed
Sand hie wavedIhis hand to the Doctor, and
-criedh," The lane is close ahiead. '1urn, wit
1 the ladies, to the leit, at yonder big tre
twli we cover your rear ! '
Nttt term seconds passed crc they  s crc .t .
hamnc, and there Clford andh his'comi:m:W
eheeked their horses in the mami se
til octo aid is companions wetnt doe i
Ithe ine at full speed.
Thie lane was gained only- just in time , ir.
at the moment time ladies tn ned ito it. tie
liebehs were in sight, ani came rushing on
it anild cheer ;for they evidentlhy were
iiso rued about time condition i' the bridge
taithought that they had the fugitives in
a trap.
('itlbrd ant ahiscompanions fired a volley
wihtheirl ong-range rules at tie advancing
horsemen, and turned into the lane just as a
withering volley was sent after them.
Both Clifford and Bruce were hit--the
former not very badly, but the latter most
deerelys-though both still kept their sad-
dles.
ltadford saw it, and asked Clifford if they
hai aot better turn and fight.
"No, they are too nmay for us ; we must
try to reach our pickets .' said Clifford. "If
we can keep poor Bruce in his saddle, we
imust do so; for none of us must be taken
alive. You ride by his side and steady him
if he reels. Don't let the ladies know that
any one is hurt.  Dolan, reload your rifle, msu
I aimsdoing : we must pop off their leaders
when they come within range
Thc chase was now tearfully exciting.
Both pariaes were urging their horses to the
utmost-the Rebels so near that their fiendish
yells could be distinctly heard-now in sight-
then hidden by sonic sharp turn in the road.
now  tiring a wild shot or two, sending a
whistling ball terribly near the ladies, bit.
fortunately, hitting none but the two brave
men who were bleeding fast into a weakness
which would render them helpless.
twicee Clifford and Dolani, getting agcxl
range, turned in their saddles. and, though at
foil stet, tired, with a practiced aim, which.
at each shot, emptied a eiel saddled; and
thus they made their pursuemrs rather more
cautious than they were at first.
But time fiendish blood of George Barrett
was up, and still unhurt hiimself lie urged his
imin on, encouraging them with time General
promise of live thousand dollars for the pris
ones ams the horses. And tihey, eager to win
tim' reward and revenge the tli of somie halt
ot n of their number, swept on, their bleed-
hu spurs telling how hicily they were used.
How inr are we rmi time pickets now '

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.

LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
esked the Doctor, when they had once more ful styptnics, in chekepve ng a hemorarhagce owhich
gained the main road and advanced some    ould soo hav derid e service o       o
miles aloni.                             valuable lives.
"Not oer five or si miles !" cried Clif-  While these operations were going on,
ford, faintly, cr he could hardly keep the Barrett, sullen, angry almost to choking, stood
saddle. "l)o not. for an instant slat your looking on.
speed, even it' you seeC us dlo SO, but get to the ," You seem to have a fondness for Union
piceedeveCi d us help as soon as you can 1" company, Major," said Captain Radford,
iSergeant, yo .are iettin    i as white as a " you visit their camps so often."
-heet-you cant stand t much longer gs and  arrett scowled angrily, but did not con-
h      yor Bruce, here, ha to depend onme to descend to make any reply.
keep him in the saddle!" said Captain Rad-  So the naval officer thought he would try
ford, shortly after.                     another touch in even a   oreunrbl
" We must keep up as long a~s we can !" point.
said Clifforl. "Our only hope is in some of  "You invited me, not lon ago, to attend
our men being out on a scout.  That alone your wedding in Petersburg, major. it gives
will save us, for I n evertcankeep the saddle me pleasure now to reciprocate your polite-
to the pickets. if 1 can only see the ladies ness, by inviting you to witness my marriage .
and the good old Doctor in sate, I don t care; which is to take place in Suffolk in a few
for I've gosix good shots in my belt yet, and days. You will, of course, feel interested
I'll have six Belal lives to pay for mine, when I inform you that Miss Annie Glover is
if they do get men'"                    to be the bride."
"Cheer up, theer up, Sergeant!  I see   "Curse you!   Iold your tongue, you in-
blue-jackets on theroad, yonder, as sure as I fernal Yankee !" growled the Major. "Isn't
live " cried 1)olant.                   it enough that I'm a third time a prisoner in
"Then, tank God, we are saved !" cried the hands of your infernal nigger-worshipers,
Clifford, clingig to his saddle with renewed without being taunted by you 1"
energy. "It there are only tea or fifteen of  'I but return you such compliments as
them, with fresh houses, we I turn the tables you gave me, only you are receiving far bet-
on that cursed Major, and bag him for the ter treatment than you gave me. You tied
third time.  Thank Heaven ! there is a full me hand and foot, an(d pitched me helpless
squadron out !" lie added, as a solid body into the bottom of a mule-cart."
of Federal cavalry e une in sight, their bright  "Did lam know your rank when he treated
starry guidon flashing in the rays of the sun. you soY" asked Captain erwilliger.
"Check up, Captain, check up ; we'll give  "Yes, Sir; I was in uniform, and he knew
the Johnny Rebs one more dose of lead on me well; for I took him to Fortress Monroe
our own account-there will be less prisoners on my boat when lie was a prisoner the first
to be troubled with," he added.          time, and treated him then with all the court-
And Clifford drew up side by side with esy of a gentleman, though.he acted like a
Dolan anti, taking deliberate aim, tired into br-ite rather than a man."
the mass of advancing Rebels.              "Then he shall know how a person feels
Two more of them tumbled from their under such treatment," said the Captain.
saddles, and the rest halted in confusion; for "And he ordered the Major tied hand and
the bugles of the advancing squadron were foot, and had him pitched into a mule-cart
sounding the charge, and its horses and men which his men brought from a neighboring
plunging forward at their topmost speed.  plantation.
Barrett saw hip danger nod turned to fly ;  While all this was going on, there were two
but lie was too late. IIis tired horses had persons standing by the side of the doctor,
run their wind nearly out, and in less than vatchling his every motion, as lie dressed the
ten minutes he anti ten men-all that was left wounds of Clifford and Bruce,,listening with
out of his twenty-were prisoners in the almost breathless interest to his words, as he
hands of Squadron A of the Mounted Rifles, told them they would get well if great care
the allant 'I'erwilliger in command,     was taken of them.
Clifford had just strength enough left to  One of these persons was Marvelia Glover,
see the surrender, and then fainted from loss of whose whole heart seemed to have yielded
blood.                                   itself suddenly, with all the fervor of its
Poor Bruce was even in a worse condition. Southern birth, to a passion for him who had
Fortunately, the surgeon of a volunteer in- risked so much for her and her friends, and
fantr-regiment - the gallant Boyd of the had so daringly and successfully brought
One Mlundred and Twelfth New York-had them through the danger.-
come out with the squadron for a ride, and The other was Elise, who, willh tears stand-
the detachment coming to a hit, lie dressed lag like diamonds in her great black eye
the wounds, and succeeded, by using power- knelt near Bruce, and watched his white fc

_


1

80                         LIFE IN THE SADDLE.
and low breathing, as if her own life depend-  "I have something here for you, Clifford,
ed upon his recovery,                   which will do your heart good and help your
And most likely it did ; for the poor girl, wound amazingly, I think," said the Captain.
despite the sli ht taint of African blood, not  " What is it ?" asked Clifford.
even perceivable in her veins, had a heart as  "Your furlough for sixty days, my dear
warm, as devoted, and all as truthful and boy, and a strong letter with it recommend.
loving as any other woman could boast who ing you to the governorr for a vacant com-
atxxl upon God s footstool.             mission in the reigiment."
And when the Doctor said that with good  "It is a surprise, and I am all the more
narsinr the brave soldier would get well, she grateful for it," said the Sergeant, as he re-
iiwarly vowed that if allowed, she and she ceived the document.
only would he his nurse.                  " And I have also received a furlough for
And when a carriage was brought, into the  unic length of lime," said the Captain.
which the t wo other ladlies were put, and seats ")So, il' you please, we will be traveling-coin.
offered in it for her and her mother, she he'- panions in our journey to the North."
ged to have ClitTird and Bruce placed there,  "Nothing could please mse more," saidl
saying that she and her mother could more Cliflord, and then lie looked anxiously at
easily ride in the cart, where Barrett lay Marvulia, as if another thought had just enter-
guashing his teeth, than they could ; for the ed his mind.
carriage, which was a planter's coach, had  "I have not yet emptied my budget of
easy sp rigs, and the 'art had none.    news,' contmued the Captain. " The Doctor
And it was so arranged-the two wounded lhts received permiion also to go North with
men being place! in the carriage with fie his fimnily."
ladi's; and Barrett, lying us sullen and m'ody  " Iiam very very glad to hear that, for the "
as a sore-headed hear, in the bottom of the too will travel with us, I hope," said Chiffon.
same cart in whleh rode, on a comfortable  " There is only one slight dilliculty in the
seat, li r former servants.             way," said Captain RIalford. " have made
And now, before the sun had yet reach cl a solemn vow and registered it, never upon
its noonday-height, the whole cavalcade, all any occasion to travel in company with a
joyous but the Rebel prisoners, with General single lady. I once traveled in company with
Pryor's valuable stud of horses led along, an old maid who took snutf, and she made a
moved triumphantly into the Federal lines.  dead set after my heart and hand, and so ter-
rified me that 1 never have recovered from
CHAPTER LII.                the shock. I feel absolutely like fainting at
It was one week later. Clifford, attended the smell of snubf, and I must keep my vow."
daily in his own quarters by his already-be-  "What did you do with it when you rode
trothed lady, who was none other than Mar- away from Rebeldon in the company of sis-
velia Glover, had so far recovered from the ter and myself?" asked Marvelia, with an
effects of his wound as to be able to take gen- arch smile.
tie exercise.                             "Oh, you were all dressed in a masculine
Bruce, who had been hurt much worse, garb then, and it would have been the height
having one bullet through his shoulder and of impoliteness to have pretended to look
another through his leg, was doing as well as through your masquerade. Now you are in
could be expected, though far, very far from your proper costume, and I cannot but look
being well ' He, too, liia a careful--almost upon you both'as the most lovely and amiable
too watchful-nurse for her own health ; for of your sex, and lament that you are yet
Elise was sleepless in her care of him, and single."
had been ever since the surgeon, kind-hearted  "Is there no way to dispense with your
Doctor Bennett, had seen how beneficial her vow ?" asked Clitlord.
nursing would be in his case.             "None, I assure you, and but one to rem-
It was a sunny morning-as sunny as that edy the distressing case "
which had dawned upon them after the ter-  " And what is that, my dear Captain ; pray
rible gloom of the night when they made enlighten us."
their escape from the Rebel camp beyond the  " I left Mr. Bartlett. the chaplain in his tent
Blackwater.                             a few minutes ago, and lie promised to re-
Marvelia had called early upon Clifford, as aiu there until-i returned," said the Captain.
was her usual custom, and had been at his " He has it in his power to make Miss Annie
quarters an hour or more, when Doctor Glover Mrs. Ratiord, and Miss Marvelia
lover and his sister Annie, accompanied by Glover Mrs. Ernest Cliflird. And as Doctor
Captain Radford, carme in               Glover has already given his consent to the
The latter had two official-looking docu- union of all the aforesaid parties, I see no just
meats in large yellow envelopes, without red cause or impediment why the ceremony of
pape on them, in his hands.             marriage should not be performed, and I be

I

S
.

a
N

LIFE IN TIIf SADDLE.                                81
tiL u believedd from the painful difficulty of ly talu. Sergeant, altl in with your convoy, and
w"keep step on the imu ch of felicity."
SIt i ;o sudden." righed Annie, thiatly. tThe happy party were soon in the tent of
. And we are dressed no poorly," added the excellent  egunental Chaplain, in which
M'u elii.-                               the witnes es alicady alluded to quickly ar-
. irant-e'-wrcaht hacelll i:a2 .can t  'ivcd, having alrea  ben invited by Cap-
with 'hi  p  n :d,  Capain Hd- trmnlladlord, who well knew that his prop-
ht'r. " There will bI buht lw witn. a. Vh" ost10o11 woul beaccepted before he nde
it' eiwul inumh-d t tin' (it thelI'ur1  co Cute;l ia the htughale excSi' of his vow.
him hitltr  iauilyv will be  killed .iu, and I  'he Captain now sent a note to the officer
cailoit con'cientiuslyoego thavimg your of the  y. i.equesmting him to bring Major
aniale relativt'. Major Barret, present. As George Barrett to the tent, without informing
lh it'etndd I should se ' hat he ian utto be uhi why he  iS i   M  o uerdhor.
a fore'tdl m1ari'iage n ih 'you, Anie.l hie must  The monient t1e lIbel Major entered, th
se' Low willingly you cti 'onie yli li utr'. It partit rose, snd te Chaplain proceeded first
i~ il tit i'~('2041 Atii li'et.  (on".hoililulCaptainlihrtto i5 Annie, and
i' ill the ires entge 1 ek :in hist tca. ('un. to uinte  p  lifftord to Miss Mrei
hv, we h  'aveyour consent lli t we not .'I then Sergeat Clitford to Miss Marvelia
" Yes, itather thinks it is hat,'pd't'          ceremonyy ocu pitd but a few moments,
mnliM elia' bIluhing  ilnce gave her con- ni( he1 l  -'ll\lajo.' looked as if le was ready
me                                      to Fi io the earth all the time it was going
S'I1itily say' in that. stated as I alt, at Ot. bull' lie Lhit'W titi ny a ysoiiftil eye
[ rtent an1 \exile (ton lily hoie, 1 at unitl ton wt bent (luiIinhu; it being known how hi
her1y il Viullig mt) ove dau ttltegiltcr titiiidit iregal to the lady, whose good
br    mln  wot)  yive already prlo0 ve l('in-± 1frttllitt1been to 'SdipC troii his power.
tiv.u aile and w killing to protect thi.' said ' Vit'l the mnaarrialge-cerm('ii0iies were over.
h)uetor (ove'. " And as we are so somi ) toiaud the iathes and gentlemen l)resen1t united
North togthi'r, the h sl'ty marti ; nill in ont'gralhtttin the hihap pcotples, lie st)o
not sti'm to anl 01n at al nuu-illilopei'.  gio w'ming on one side. looking, as he was, i
"'lhen. AMi"  nit', allo' lii t mi to escort you mt lIihganllllit ht'ntl in hum  shape, a fit servant
tU the Chtiaplai l  1taent. ' said he happy C p- of a Ihel imt
iii.;  .'       -
c                                                        -


r

NEW BOOKS
J3T ISSUED BY
Frederic   A   Brady, PublisliG,
22 ANN STREET, New York,
Mailed free of Postage om receipt of Pries.

DUMAe' NEW      BOOKS.
foyaltats and Republitcansa or, The Com-
t'.sionsofuJ.....-...-..----.--------....$50
inee his famous "Monte Christo," no work of
5his great novelist has produced such a wonderful
eneation. It is an immense book. Every chapter
Is instinct with life. Every incident is full of
reality. There is not a single dull v-ae in the
whole book
The Guillotine;                             50
Luomas take 'a pone of the most thrt1iff inf-
desT's in the wclh's history-the war of LaVendee
--and interweaves with it a story of the most in-
tsnselyin*tereetirg kind. It surpasses in absorb-
er~ faacinatroxairny pavges ever written.
The Palace of lee.-------------------.---.. .   50
This is the latest, and, in the opinion of the
tanistn critics, the very ablest romance that Du-
mras has ever yet penn e. Certain it Is, that a bet-
bar romance has not appeared for many years.
The Orange Plume; or, The Bride of the
lastie.--.... ... ................. . ... - .. 0
An admirable tale. Told with all the brilliancy
and power that have made flumes recognised as
t'as I 'rnooflRomanciste.
&amp; new Book, by the Author of "The Romance
of a Poor Young Man."
The Marchirtness; or, A Marriage by Will.
ly Octave nu.lnet--.-... ...---- -............5
In this Bcok, ins gifted author has far surpassed
leis world nrrovned "Poor Young Man.' It is
a mect bri-i tirturn- othe intrigues and  nia
ef that fat- nunstrcnss of the .tdriatic, where
- Here ued irne the naked vens. rees,
AdSt nidas rids tei uns rathI earp..
WOVELS BY LADY CLARA CAVENDISI.
The Woman of the World.------.--- se
A faithful career of a Lady Gay Spanker style
et woman, who allows nothing to stop her in her
career of fashionable folly and dissipation in order
ds gain the necessary means to attain her ends.
Lisa; or, the Mesmerist's Victim...... 50
Onue of It'inipal characters, Menti, uses or
rather abuser this wonderful faculty to lead a
lively but gertr' gr:ied girl into the power of
tesnilese Irbartines-
The Divoree. ATa!e of Fashionable Life .-- 50
This tale is founded up.n one of the darkest
transactions that has ever dltraoed the highest
&amp;sciee of English fashionable life.
5iar   ret, Marehioness of MlnIwer..... 50
ui of eautres, and with hardly a fault in this
t'r-eluetmon of lad~y Clara's.
Chle Fallen Star......................_.-..-0
This story appeals strongly to oar "heart of
hearts,"r and we cannot praise it too highly. ita
hall of passage of thrilling descriptions and heai.
roving pathos.
Lai nfCaendish'a novels are alsotnip t alc
ta ag at 7) oenes a volona.

7$".
Out of the Depths. A Story of a Wennan's
Life-------------- .--------------....
A woman's story and a woman's book. "Out of
the Depths" will interest mans and terrify some,
but it can disgustnone ; it is a book written with a
tender and delicate hand; and even the foul things
of which it treats lose much of their revolting
nature by the method of that treatment.
Almost a Heroine. A Romanoe.-......... 511
This is one of the most original books in every
particular that has appeared since "Jane Eyre."
Florence DeLacy; or, Qutokands and Whil-
pools A Tfale of Youth's Temptations. Dty
ercy B. St. John. Illustrate-.....------- e
Never have we read a work ao vividly real, so
hihly attractive, and yet sofree from imagination.
e above three novels aro also pubites da
cloth, at 75 cents a volume.
ifarry Berfori ; or, The Girumbler of the 1mr.-
sissippi. Iey Jack Brace-------------------- t
The Pirate's Jganghter.-.--------------- s
A story of exciting deeus upon the ocean. Full
of startling pictures, of the wildest and most te-
rifle interest, varied by passages of the most tender
pathos.
The Count's Niece       or, The Veteran of Mta-
rengo. Thisis a $l,000 Prise Story-.......-- 35
Fanny Campbell or, The Female Ph-ate
Captain.-----------------------------------
Fanny Campbell, the heroine, is one of theemeet
interesting characters ever delineated, and her ex-
ploits surpass in boldness and brilliancy the most
gallant exploit. over performed. This book Is ac-
kaowledged by all who have resA, it, to be the very
best romantic history of the stirring incidents of
oar Revolutionary War ever written.
The Naval Ofteer; or, The i-ates' Cave....  15
A nautical tale, full of wid and stirring gd-
venture. Incident follows incident, as fast as one
blue wave follows another. Those who have read
"Fanny Campbell," by the same author, won't
need pressing to buy this equally gro. tromanos.
The Queen      of the     Prairi    ; or, The
tunter's Revenge---------------------------0H
This story, fraught with oon.tests analseemnr'e
ispoasibilttrss, has unknown charms which trioea
alous who have read the work, san comrrf end.
Ronnens'o iTWar; or, Napeleo      azmpsea
m Rusiain 1812.............................
Ta. Horse Doctor.-..............      - i
\..)   C't-.   oectr.-----------   ------    5

I

FREDERIC A. BRADY'S CATALOGUR,
BRADYtS CELEBRATED MERCURYY ' S Y'RTES.

$

i

--.

faid Sabberday ; or the Idiot Spy.           A     Ribera. " He wasted for tho return of the assa-
tale of the men and deeds of '76. By Ned Bunt.  sin. ' He had not long to wait. In a very feiw
litre. Illustrated with several fell-page engravings  minutes that individual came in and emptied out
t-y Darley. The attention of the reader is led to  the gold upon the table which Pedro, the fisber-
the days of the American Revolution, when deeds  man, had carried away, as well as otl er yaluables
of great valor and heroism were enacted. Saul   found upon the murdered scamp, who had desert
pretends to be an idiot, and by that means gains edly niet death just when he has cons-.mmated his
access to the enemy's camps and reports their do-  villainy and received his reward."  There are
rig to American commanders. Saul renders much   hundreds of very beautiful scenes and history iciJ
service in those trying times, and was selected to  incidents in this book that only such a writer as
enrry inselligence to Gen. Washington ; mounting  Buntline could so elegantly portray. I'ice $0 25
the horse of the lamented Ethan Allen, he gal- S eaWaif; or t
lopedi to White Plaint to the camp where Wash-  Be    ai;       the Terror of te Coas
ington was giving orders to his Aids. Saul rush-  By Ned Bunthne. Embellished with ten full page
ed into the presence, and seeing the Commander-  illustrations by Darley. This interesting story
in-chief, shouted, "you are a man like other    opens at the commencement of our American
folks !"  The chief hastily opened' the dispatch  Revolution with Sea Waif being engaged, by old
!nd a glad smile illumined his countenance. Saul  Piineas Crimgle, as the Captain of the Tyranni
is then employed on perilous services which he  cide, a privateer. In his irst adventure he sinks
faithfully executes to the perfect satisfaction o  a-British Sloop of War, which is escorting some
WVashirgton,who rewardshim. Saul finally mar-  half a dozen transports, and captures them all and
ries Luly the umutored child of Emathla, the    brings them into pert, by vhich Cringle gets over
dread Chief of the Seminoles, but now the fully  a hundred thousand dollars pi izo money. Sea
developed and educated woman of civilized life.  Waif makes the Tyrannicide the terror of the
Washiington is present at the wedding and thanks  Blritishers and after many adventures is taken a
1 arl in the name of a Free Country. Price $0 25  prisoner. Sea Waif has been picked up whes
quito a child, by some fishermen off Nantucket
The White       Wizard     ; Or the- Prophet      Sl'rhals and is adopted by a h'rmuit who names him
of the Seminoles. A tale of strange Mystery in   Edward Sea Waif, because he is a waif of the
the South and North.   By Ned Buntlin-.   Six   sea. At the time he is found he floated ashore
full page engravings from designs by Darley. The  - on an old sea chest, wherein were a number of ar-
realer's attention is called back a period of near-  tides vith crests upon tlemr, which finally leads
ly forty years ago when Spanish pirates and     to his identification as Lord Francis Eget on. Af
American slavers infested our Southern coasts ;  ter ieing released and exchanged he assumes his
ahen New York Merchants, some of whom now       position as a peer of the realm, comes brick to the
wallow in their gilded mansions in our fashionable  land of freedom where ho marries Kate, the
Streets, were engaged in fitting out vessels to  daughter of old Cringle and returns to England
catch "black-birds," as well as "green ones."   with her. All the characters in this beautiful sto-
The White Wizrud is a Caucasian, who is leaving  fy have happy lives and it finally winds vp by
civilized society with his young wife and darling  everybody being pleased and satisfied. Whoever
child of two years. They are overtaken by a pi-  reads this story will most assuredly have their full
rate vessel, which pour shot and canister at the  money's worth. Price ................ $0 25
small yacht upon which is the White Wizard. A Man-ofWars-Man's Grudge. By Ned
shell falls upon  the wife and she is killed.   Buntline. A romance of tie Revolrtion.    The
Through the aid of some kind fishermen he man- chuntefAtromaed        t  o   luto.  ah
ages to escape with his little yacht up one of the  chase-the fight-the bafhed smtor-an alderman
small rivers on the coast of Florida, whore he falls  of tie olden trme-the tory-love ard duty-mis-
in with a band of Seminoles. After consultation  tress andservant-boquet-tete-a-tete-enemy in
he is accepted by them as their "medicine man"  sight-Cora Bedford-crime and misery-fate of
and is named Arpiahlia the " White Medicine."   war--surprise-cruise-love's stratagem-spy-
They dig agrave frr his murdered wife beneath a  right scene in Philadelphia-fiend in  human
tall magnolia. He  carved upon tie tree, as he  aipe-welcome visitor-ahduction-strange in-
magnlia  fi  :seed  pon th tre, a 1,E ' terview -- woman's kindness -- disclosure -- cap-
sighed "Lost, lost, forever!" one word-" Ioixst"  te --  wonor-kadnesit-tdilsure-
1  '  l  h .                   -    ture-parole of honor--a visit--two villains-so-
In the morning, ris hair, which was a glossy    cial dinner--storm at sea-fight-foiled and kill-
snowy white     t ig fre,    een eanget to a  ed--five beautiful engravinge by Darley.
"The murderers of my wife, seek my blw d,        li"''''''''''''''''''''''''''-$0 25
they would rob me of my child !" said Arpiaka.  Stella  Delorme ; or       the   Camantche'
"They lad better put their hand in the nest of  Dream.  By Ned Buntline.- A wild and firaciful
the hooded Cobra than seek my white brother     story of savage life. Ilustrrted by six full page
among the Seminoles!" cried Chikika. " %e      engravings in Darley's best style. The author of
will go half way to meet them !"  The child Ona  rhis Indinn tale has been exceedingy prolific in
is stolen by one of the fishermen who turns trait-  his descriptionrrf savage life as it is in our Wee-
or, and taken to Ivana toSenor Ribera, who is  tern Wilds.  This is one of the very interesting
authorize- to pay ten thousand dollars for it. Ri-  stories that Buntline so well knows how to weave
hera employs an assrssia to kill the fisherman af-  that when once the reader begins to scan its pa-
ter he departs from Ribern's house, and take half  ges ie cannot leave it until he finishes its reading
the gold fr his trouble and return the balance to  -for every page Is a new scene. Price. $© 25
e   Capiis of the above books sont te r addas in tire United States, free of postage.
Seud Cash order, 'to Frederc A. ~drrdy, Putblihr.- No. '2 Ann Street. NeW-York.


4

FREDERIC A. BRADY'S CATALOGUER
BRAtIY'S CEI.F RArEnr) "MERCURt70 STORES.
Luona Prescott; or the Curse Fuilille. Torgan;                r the Knight of the l    cwk Fhtg
A  'ai' of Iht Ame ean tvoluti. Bliy N     A stran e tory, of by-gone tints. By Ned Burt
Bri tine.  W   will give a short svnopsis of if  linm. Illuatmat'd hyDo ley with ton full s.ee en.
tnt , i/:-coise of the ding ui thmi. i   gu tings. Tie author carries th tetlter to tlth
t the lung hz- iltory otf wrol a'n deio(IPaitintm  dlalV3 of the "Mr-Ii ty Monarch ," CharlesE!, H ,
rv for ven ti-snre.  Military 'drill and fun-r).  faithfully pito-i rsso-ime of the perrseclu ions of' t
-' %will-pulpit twus pi    A pictire--mnt..-   Hebrews at that -iin.  Mi      &amp;        .gaitlt her of I he
L u  and rerrm ting. E1tn Alien tail the  plot is a young We ini ttollltan eitpy in h
' "   Morn ttii it v. Assault on Qu-hbc--M- n t.  w . ith M iriam,!t i yotnti titd btittiful J-weps it
:in-i kill.  I.tie orn the like.  At iom     daughter of Siiliirio , srnaetd " Solomon the
A nio ii aictio.   .t and cold blood.  Br-o uI  JeW."  The attention of the i-eider is called  e
i bt. A-nohtl I i Phlaelplia.  Arnold's n at  tie allowing extrtact to show the style of the ai
Kf d- step aid lead--where  W   iigtii onant h ithor ithe exciting tale
the reprimand.  Fa'or asked and grant d.  At-I   "'fhou art of tlihse who believe that the glories.
rol-'a tr 'on.  Artiri's esptore. The t itt r's1  of the holy City will be yet revived ?"
Tie warning ofL Lura.    W     n. rn     " It is a prot of our creel.  Were it not for
e i'"th( treason,  Arnobi 1awtiLensi ti rt- -'r   timt hope the loom of the  lbrew weredark, in
Lo oina at htots. T+e  acinlurio S.    .i I-1 ded !fPerseett1Iby all tw  t-reviled and ha-
S  is by I)    -. Prico . . ....... .    ;. $o  5  til--they know little of joy on earth i"
" All mien do not butt    n thy race .Se pit
C a r Mess; or the Pirate iTuntters of the        more tlhu  they hate"
ti If.  A  te of N ti i-ttiu01                  " Pill iil~. ," ty'
S r in tie Tr u~iir, lr  N                    irIsntid,  ItlMti tta t  "TiteJet-black eyes of the' J.'wess flashed like
tlvt  er; rtt l";  }r  l),: Ry.  ithe is  n'  )E  reias !she  e'chumul this word.
. tines's S aRtimancs, for which I' is so eti-  Pity! she citid. " Give us hate and scttn
utly prot'rhial, and into which he casts si nehl  but not so batse  thing as pity !  Pity the hound
citing interest.  This story is unsurpassed in  which howls when you s'ourge him--pity the
rilous advtenture and Nautical romance b  any  slave which kisses the band that smite. him; but
o:hr author. Pric...-......................'25    udnaler we yet are proud amid all suffer-
PngJlsh Tom; or the Smuggler's Secret.             There are many excitng and interesting scenes
A talc of Ship arid Shore. By Ned Buntline.  l   in this bolk that will chain the attention of the
-trated w it h six eigravings by Darley.  phe  ii-to its very last words. Price .....0 25
adler is taken to, a New  England villiage n.d D
iiI Mr. DoUrmmdrt on 1..t the lookout fur the 'ci'i  Nw D ah mystery: a Crimson Tale of life
ese- crimstied by LFrank liewlet, a mst in-I  i New York. By Ned Buntline. Eight elegant en-
nitiatel rascal.  li  tt hasta wife in New Ymiki(  gravings by Darley. This is perhaps one of the
lriesitts the rlin if l-tsiy lunt, the tltaugl  most interesting tales ever penned by Buntline. A
ter of the tavern keeper of the village, andt also  woman is the leader of a band of murderers and
rttdseatin a to matrvy Rowlie Drotmmtond. P'ott  cut-pus ; whom she visits in various disguises,
iart-  a              tnluced to cmti to New Yoi kl, wh  " .istiiar hir own band fail to recognize her.  She
,r, mnyt     a mockmanrtiinae i. p, frm.             zntvtsithe amhng hells of New York; breaks a
-st t'n bftoiher own resources and after be-I titner el the iiFiro Banks, inveigles her betrayer
bi k d i.imi a l rthel in Mrcer street, ai k-es  and cotues htis rtun.  She exhibits the most re-
her tail til ihmit h collusion with Min Drun-  ittiens hat, and proves that a neglected woman
-oil si t  all m:i expopI- hu'wiet to is  is the most to be dreaded of all characters. She
asmne. Oil Il)Lumi'ntind has been an Englislh  saves many of her sex from destruction; and final-
i-t tglee, arid tie facts being kwgwn toi lea  t  ly winds up by cauising those who had persecuted
i. tris to taki tld rvaitie of the a ,tr t  , ,  itc, her formerly. to meet at her house, which is an
plri lIttoI ih)1iumrnond, and is fmiall, r _  'elaborate establishmtnt in one of our best loesli-
in all las attenpra. HefIwlet's conilductt expos d R  tice, and poisoning them with some refreshments,
ti convicted of lit niy andise'rves the salt,  at a ball which she gives for their amusement,
S" espacity of a comiet. Rosali D uulnond1s   Previmus to their deaths she informs them who she
Snit  to lbe the le-gitimate Ih ir-as to an em blolt  is, how they spurned her with their persecutions,
t E    }il and only tie  i pt-I diugrhtr  f   and sirnow condenils them to condign piunish-
Dorum ild. Tie sieret I f lb ramo i th   m      mert.  Price ...                     .  o
t er, is that le is s ipiloni  i i t ave murlere il the
Fat I Delo, tn--, (thu f'tthet of ltu:lie) whter h., Iilhare Henderson;  or the Secret rt.
haul in fact omy wiu-tld hn .  Dilorne coins  vealel.  By Ned Buntline. This work cintt-dr,e
ti An-riau still et nial sci Ifm17)f irn dorl ma j-  a number of illusttiionrs lmy Darley and is
-r r's tl  and til-c  Th ii.      tirtontie  antcedent of tht Dath Mystery. Here nwe en
gmr an~ utlneI then inel'ne ptales i cn thlsd forth all the muae nationis of the chactenirs sps-
give at lOutlute of tr iti r a in,   ;tales iittis fotaltieoa  ln orsothtctrct'  s-
little arringu', but fet-Is issurcd that the readers  ken of in the Dt ath Myst-ry. To have a com-
of these hocks will b," amply repaid for both time  plete estimation of tath  Dati Myste rywith alt -
'n t hxp-use bi ktbi  -"eng. Price. - - - -  --) 5 -excititg imciderts the reader must have a copy  .
(etih the book mail-d free of postage.)   I IHillikre Iledtle-rson. Price............. O 9 -
I   C.pis ofIt'.s ailov btoiti, Drt Lit tiV pirt af thu' . te I Stat-s, free of pitaci.-
8 aJC' i o lin tr. ccI -.   , it I).                                      - l~  t2  ~a. tut  i-ri

FREDEBIC A.-BRADY'S CATALOGUE.
BRADY S CELEBRATED "MERCURY" STORIES.-

rossbea k    Mansion-       A  Mystery of     forests of otr almost boundless roitrisv 1s
Nw  Yort  b y N d  l1 rtin .  Illustrated  with  elegantly  delineated  in this story, that to  give eve s
Newf Y   pragby edri-ngt ly. Darley  The  u.  a faint outline of these tales would appear to be a
t 1   pagengr1vingsyDarleyiTt the iiluhliitins have  work of supererogation, yet we cannot refrain
ken' aodninedesignmt r+ferteatui  rathave   from telling just a little to give the general read-
bhu reui  of ninety  c s l v  pl i te t a gc .  a i.s G oss -  er  en  id ea  th at  he  is  ayin g  th e  trifling  am o t t  o f
hW  iok  a  rm tired  c ptaiu n dtjt p ag ver,s   -iling  tw enty-five  cents  for  som ethic g  in tri sically  w orth
b;oek srtredt, cap tntandeshipgowner, r ing ten times the amount iii pleasure to himself anA
in   &amp;o'ker street, somn twenty years ago-Gross-  to others *hen he is- cated  Thte first scene opens
liakito is n of the ob-ashioned ily sort of Sua-  by a trapper discovering that'sorne rascal has bes
ti'al awd charitable maier. Old Levi Martin" pilfering from his stock of furs, which he supposes
i  n !  ndl - firt rc -rhar i t  and  S ip-ow ner  in  South  ' are  safely  stow ed  in  a  c u'-de-sa c  min  the  w ilder nsa
sti  . t u-/in   Nm r anrti an,  his  so - is  introduced   n h   sets  to  w atch  in  the  night  but is  unable  to  dis
t     . Yo-und g haptei. he is delineated as one of  cover the thief. While he is on the watch for the
ti -  o nde   hat r Pe He iarte sailors  who  is  full  of  pilferers, he  discovers  five  men  approach  a streak .
a' -     aind forphise h   savlloas tIme weaker  with-a burden from which afterwards is seen to
f isfssion, aarise the form of a lovely young girl. These men
ba fairer sex. Oil Mar-tin gets married for thle  tie her up in the covering, and with rocks fasten-
'rind titn-, luringi the absence of his son on a  ed to the bundle cast it into a river. The trapper,
vloyage to the last *Lnilin-s. Th'is Mrs. t ittin, as . -
t-  tquc troves isaperfect she-rascal, who with  springs into the stream. and1 being a hardy swim-
th  u"ol  has isaipertl ol Mrin, no        ter succeeds in bringing up the boly, to which
nther, husmveigletl   artin,iinthe p.   he applies friction and stimulants and restores hetr
on either killing thim themselves or iltiving him tolfaai.Sesrchsuterrmmpr-
an suicide, that they may enjoy his property after-  tife againm. Shesthetchpeout her rms, implo-
as ui:s. Yuan;tri~ Matin upon his return fruntsirhis loing meryaichten: ~ e  nsvr ntef
limig voyage, Ihorutig which, at Calcutta, he wasos lowifg strain.
et     Is       the American Consul, asks       Youre safe, litt  oman-y    e sfe. T
Is father swhtre his sister is ; to which the father  wretches have gone, and you are wit a man'rea
cnntr rut}, itna-mtuclh as the machinations of the  to dw for you . No  ore nee  o asking hi
-- td the mother-in-law, have driven her from  n, gial  r no mornoclispinig of them  whie
hic piiiittlhom. liredagtetowvena        hands in despair, nio more turnxin' of that psate face
'ar""d    """,.rue aoangrhter, however, hias  tohe    '"
mrri-ud the object of her choice, lien husband, " Thegirl was assured-she felt, she knew,
anrd leaves her tihe mother of twins, wiiiuln                    It-h     elsn   nw
dt ian    toavesier the  tofitwin, wich   that she was indeed safe, and seizing the sun-
t' nu s to be sent to Mr. Grotsseak, without  browned hand, kissed it and dropped tears upos
telfing him whose they are, except that the twins.
an- rrn in honest wedlock. Grossbeak receives  it.
thtn, and withi his daughter, a very interesting w There are ver b many to aching itrcieGnts in this
and b-autifiul young lady rears them.  Grossbeak  work, of se apptr habits and avenitune. Graphtic
hnts two ships left, one of which replaces under  scenes and beautiful mrs, all of  .hi.  must in-
tiu ucomnmand of young Edgar Martin, who manl-s  terest every eater. Prico .......$0 25
a guat deal of money with her, and he fially The Rattlesnake ; or the Rebel Priva-
ma  ri--s Liiue Grossbeak. The sister of Edgar  teem. A tale of the present day; by Ned Bunt-
becmi   a companion to ma lady who purposes na-  line. Handsomely illustrated with six full page
king a tour through Eturopi'. On the European  e
travels they meet with tmanty thrilling adventures;  engravings by designs by Darley. This beautiful
ar taketn captives by Italian Banditti. The lead  story opens by the introduction of a Lieutenant
er of the brigands became acquainted with the  of Our Navy, having intimate relations with n
lhdy at a large soiree in Paris, and he falls despe-  highly respectable faily in Bosto, named Wine
rityiv in love with her. He treats her well as a  chester. AshtonW is the accepted intended bu-
capltise, she is attenited lty time Chief's sisters, anid  band of Fluta3 Winchester, who is entirely loyal"
ca  ves the  nis atnen dbyite aChidy. hef  s iste and  to  the  American  Union,  while  Ashton  is a  rebel.
rscieives the treatment due a lady. The brigand  Ashton resigns his commission in the Navy and
isu itetrwrds surrounded by troops and he is slain  succeeds in obtaining the command of a clipper
and( she thereby escapes from hun. Finally the brgfoIcadSngaote                eehcmp
whole family meet in New  York, and everybody  TisfSnagg     d Snaggs, another  ereal Stamp.
Is mnalt'hippy by the denouement. This is one  This Snagf  managed to get from  Jell'Daivis n
of madts' happiest de  and will well repue T s Letterof Marque, and with that authority, Ashton
of  -tin    ie hpuliest takes, anduwalyereays  sails the brig from Boston ; endeavoring first to
pruoninu The publisher takes much pleasure in  abduct Fluta Winchester on board. The United
recoerm ding this series of books to thegeneral  States Marshal pursues the brig lint fails to catch
reader, under the full conviction that theywill give  her. She proceeds to sea and meets many adven-
general satisfaction. Price .......... $0 25 tures. The cnaracter of Doctor Umbillicus, the
Pathavay; or the Mountain Outlaw.          A    surgeon, is most graphically described in. Ned's
ile of 'the Narthern Trapping Grounds; by Dr. J.  versatile manner. The reader will find this boil
Il RIinsen.   Beautifully illustrated with eight  full of exciting adventures and enough scenes ol
tuL-pege engravings. The reader is in this high-  interest to hold him "spell-bond , until "t,'
ly interesting story given an excellent idea of  end" is reached. This story is pleasing, interest-
our Amrmicus Trappers. Some of them are white  Ing and 'highly entertaining, leaving a direct so
mehan ttd others of the Inditn stamp. The thrill-  sation on the mind, hallucinating in its character.
lng and exciting adventures of our heroes of the  Get a copy, the Price is only-............$02
i' Copies of the abcve books sent to any address ha the United States, free of postage
&amp;uad Cash orders to Frederic A. Brady Publisher, No. 22 Ana Street, New-York.

5

,   u


6

Ella Ad-ms ; or the E-amon of Fire.         Al
tale of the  har hnston  c nIcigrtion-  By Ne
Buntline. Illu-i ated with ix   eantifui engrav-
ings from  designs by Darley. The author as will
as the desi-nt r of the illu nations are so well
hinown tin thegr,  a read r that the publisher
n.-nd minn ike no cmirnit +r their protductiins, an.
therefmi iunly uinnunices the facts. Miss An-
am. i a New Khgland school teacher in South
Carolina in th pursuit of lie profession.  A par-
ty if the so-c'eed r-gnulntors have a chivalric an-
tip ithny to New Englhinders and after persecuting
hr in all the manifohl ways rhat such charaters
dor, uses her to leave that tart of the coinnry ,
preni un to which they tie  et to a tree and whip
h'r in her naked riack. d'ivn escapes througit tn,
sency nf a negrin anid goes to Charlhston where
she is ihilden lac ciSpanshm Quadhion named San-
cher   S  inche-  h s s ni  ed cr ciagreat  tdeal  y  p r-
ti +nan  i  Iitsi  a  indi  I-a ii  finally  set  fire  to tie
city.  L InI AAts -cr-, s ft urnthite city tirou ~h
the ageny o~f h    ir love r, who comes there throngi
the Iicm i-i iinnins 'ltrn.  [lis is one on t it-
lines  iily  wt  ouaht  sto in-.  that  wil  piny l nn
time spcct in its 1ersal. Price-.......--- 25

and glittering steel to close up a wafl In which is
placed a live man in a state of comnolenoe. The
enfortunate victim becomes partially cnsciOus of
what is going on and in his agony makes a myste
sign of distress, which Jean Louis ander,taudin
drops inside of the tomb, a large jack-knire try
whiih means the intended victim finally csca prs.
About a year after the above event, tie rme
would-beiassassins endeavored to make awa a nut
Catholina, the daughter of the man supposed to
be entomheri, h   rv administering poisIm to hinr.
. They call in Dr. Serigny, who instantly makes tii.
discovery of the poisoning, The Dr. dlirects ts
be left alone with the patient, and after explaining
to her the state she is in, gets her-vonfidere. ie
stains her fhee and arms to resemble yellow fever
ann gives her a powrful dose that cansrs -e tio
appear as dead. The same piersons attempt to as-
sassinate him on his way home. He escapes, and
with Jean Louis gets the body of Catholi iand
retires her to life. There are a large numbreir if
very interesting g scenes in this work ; among whih
may be noticed that of the son becoming tic in-
ted with the fI t of the sunpoed murdersIt fis
cousin, the beautiful Catholinra ; her tether . I. -
Mari gy ; the confederate in all th'-e crimt, as{

Millrose -r ;    he- C- torn Pbcm titer's Dntzlh  wile sid many others linving b-en commoinidby
A   t  - r Sno luthiCarolicna. fly Dr. J. 11.  his parents.  We nwoihl likii to give a li an  ii
hii rsri      -interih by ci ict finll-1r ngrn ie-ic~in  line of th ii very plea-nut book, hutnh-w tn-ir
ruIn f)r icry. "I tiisstory  ir n t -1isuieif thertn-  te make the reini vaintir of sote fur t i iroer.
fnn cl war, imct ri y is lin   erctnig trit ne happy  The piice is nily . ............" ... - %  c..
aun iacefulirictrv. ihe scenes, as the title inE
iicates, is l- miin that net where first was hatchl frida  it)entil1)veih5 DuttlitEr.   A
ed the    nm if ntein-lion. It r-countan many tv-  new mystery of New  York.  By Nid Bt"t-inn
n-n- n.      -  I tic  ni-c  s nf iisiodi p     Illu ttted by ten elrgant r-ngraviig ativ litnev.
tihu- vi r i ri-il i tonidiffir ffrom them in opinion  This story is vi  nif sthu-n  TcnTiies of M +tii vof
ns ti th  c-ni erness cf their proceedings. \Vhilb.  New York,' i whichli itline cr .xc-ls all con-
c   wl i      not ii-s clienter into  the disi-e-sion  of thins  peers.  It  is w ttentii in a!lid  anI vigorous ninet-
ii  c     in, it 'it describes the mny hard-  ncr, and the readver wil ine enrclhrniteid tio tie eitn,
and li- been endured by th ire    arn tnthen be filled ni ith wonder it the aUthoii v r-
n Ior tc city. Tih hi-iroine of our tale is the  satility in hi de itions of a t ii living titantic-
nr ;, ip  ,'.ti-r ani hciiri nof a lnrgr cotton  ters. To rai this book is to b - highly Ilir.iI
p1 a ten-,  ii un ti thein gatlitnsiip of ieruncle,inni,  1 .- ------ -   -  - -- -''-'--...   tnU
a pen tiet tri t. Sit- is locked up in a chamber
at th, tin pf tmi  nmiinsion, and is rescued yiv nt  mountain .Max; or-Nick ln     In il tultie
oYeraer -c   yii  -reliens to whip 'iggers anid Ie  border.  A tale of the Busihwacktrt int Missouri.
with t his i empin  nt in all his nettious purposes anch  By Ir. J. II. Robinson. Seven hrtinume engia-
teds, yt uticcisi in rescuing the oin han ftom  vinngs finom signs by Dorley.  In this work at-
tine  niteltinit, -ti lient gu hat/ ma tu r --hrthnb' ir -  h ivut  i ul iitures nf Ni  k Ihiil s 'in Missrnio
mnitatiitunonit i re carpe'nter anI mu Ild sla'  I   Rnlinsni ohi a inle thse boii-lr Bushwackuc
who is devoted to her interests. All the vations  quite ftnmouns, as every reader of th-se stories mni
-enes and im ihrntIs are beautifutlly described in  admit. 'inose who have nnot read this bhook hav
ti Dcitcr's piciar, versatile anid intern-sting  indeed missed a roost delightful and intteresthingn-
+iilt",  Falling to have and read this interesting  tertninment. Don't fail to get a copy at once ati
titty, would Ie an ibreparali lesos to tny render  read it attentively.  Price-..............$0 25
who de sires to be classed as such.  'rine. - $  23
ThayondanOgea the Scourge ;                 I: I be
Catholina ; or tlh     Niche ini thne Will. A      Var Eagle nf thin Mohtiwks. A thit of Mv tern-
Til e of Liuisiarna. By Dr. J. EH. Robinson.  11-  Riuth anI Wrong. By N  dl Buntline. Svs  n.
lustratei with tin tfull-pagteo engravings from de-  biautiti l full page illhistr-tions by )arley. Tin
signs h Darley.Iny The reader is introduced, in the  is another one of Buntline's tales of the "t + porn
(twat scone to Jean Louis, a bricklayer, who is very  indian."  It is exn'edingly delighltind to urave-l
wor, ind as usual, has a large family. IHe is  through this beautit'ii story, with -.ch it de ,i.
i-aPlod out of his o-use at midniight by two men in  tive writer, and to follow the ihI nooft tire tale
ai:i. sm whno seie frim an i ,lice a hoodwink  through ill Iris manly hearings. The- stoicisn of
abiut his ees, force -him iito a criri-ng  andth nif-  Thmavinidanegen lcave's a pleas*it rhrm-ill on the min
ter imcci i~ nayuo tuirts innst i di ild hut tnn i  of t lnrier onig after lie hnas councluledh ip mi
vauit, w incer iih  is coming iby nrc-ans of pito | il ing  Price.. ....... ..-.......-.....---- $0
j   Conie of the hrbev. bnrhioas asitt mn iav I'-s i c  inot   -t-in-d States, free of postage.
ei1 Gtash  ders to Fredee A  Bradyiii, 'uli.or, N. 22 Air nuntrmeet, New-York.

FREDEBIC A. BRADY'S CATALOGUE.
BRADY'S CELEBRATED "MERCURY" STdRIES.

SI

Sootto    the Scout ;      or the Union Ran-         This Giles Hilton becomes pcssessed of a very
gers. A tale of the Great Rebellion. By Dr. .J   valuable diamond which he has given to Mr. Meat
H. Robinson.  Handsomely illustrated with eight  the dealer in precious stones, to steIl for him, and
beautiful engravings from designs by Darley. This  takes an advance of ten thousand pounds upon it.
neat and Qhaste story gives a number of vivid   'hlile the diamond is in the possession of the jew
scenes in the risil war of the United Stites, un-  eler it is stolen and a false stone Put in its plate,
der the adtniuistratiotin of President Abraham Lin-  H hich is only discovered wvhen Giles calls for orus
coin. This Seotto is a kind of Spy for the fede-  ioney. He is arrested for changing the stone
ral forces under that brave man Geo. B. McClel-  ,and trying to defraud the jeweler.  He Is finally
jian; and gives much valuable information in refer-  acquited of the charge by the confession of the
Pnce to the position of the troops in opposition.  actual thief and he is restored to fav r. This book
He passes sever-al times through the confederate -  pounds in interesting scenes and is recomnaided
army, and while making observations for " home  With much pleasureto the reader. Price...$0 25
use," meetswith many pleasant and some very un-    .
pleasant adventures. Scotto is taken prisoner by Patrot Cruiser ; A     Story; of the Ameri-
some of the Black Horse Cavalry and when asked  can Revol'tion. By Sylvanus Cobb, Jr. Illustra-
by Beauregard to take the oath of allegiance to  ted with designs by Dailey. This story is printed
the Confederacy, replies in following language :  from good'large type and is therefore easily to be
" If all the trees in yonder run was men, anit  read. 'lhe opening scenes are during the dack
all the branches and leaves on 'em was bagonets,  diays of the American Revolhtion, and commence
and all the grass growing' round 'em was(lead-shot  in the year 1775. Vhile a British Naval force
riles, and if all the sun-beams let. down from  was in the harbor of Massachusetts an army was
heaven was rebel halters, I swear to ye that Il quartered in the good city of Boston.  'he trou
would'nt swear allegiance to your one-horse con-  ble against English tyranny was then brewing, 110d
ssrn! You wince, rho ye 1  Prehaps you ain't in  little couki be said by either Whig or Tory ton-t eI
the natur' 'o things. leadi to condemnation and re-  other that was not termed menacing an Iut/llom
morse. Think of what you've lost! You've lost  mvab/e.
the Revolution ; you've lost your history; you've  " Either the English King must withdraw Inis
lostthe Cowpens; and the memory of the Swamp     troops and concede to the reasonable demands of
Fox, and the Santee !                           the colonies, or else---"
There are very many such beautiful and hore-   "What ?" asked the stranger, as Vincent Gray
thrust in this work, which the author presents to hesitated.
the readers.  Pric--................-$0 25         " Else the colonies will make their own har-
Nightshade ; or the Masked Robber of               gai, even at the point of the bayonet   T This
Humslow Heath. A Romtance of the Road. By      was sail i a low, firm tone, whicli told what the
Dr. J. H. Robinson. This book introduces the   speaker meant; and that it was the sentiment of
others bieuides himself.°
reader to nany scenes in the life of an English  oCptain Vincent Gray with a siall sloop-reghed
Highwayman in the times when the country was      Capthermnin'sboat captures an Esglishlopigartgi,
not gridironed over with railroads and traveling  trutherith that vessel becomes the " Pati  t Crntis
after Steam-horses prevalent. As the weary wa)-   ndwt That iseu ierestti" aturotirmt.
atrer travels homeward ihe is halted on the road  er.  'here ta much interesting adventure mnthm
by "your money or your hifo "  Butt that is in the  cruising of that brigantineu nder Gray that wdl
past.  The interest of this story consists in des-  pay the reader for its perusal. Price.....$(. 25
cribing so beautifully very many incidents of. dar- The Sword Maker of the Santee ; or
ing as exercised siy it holtuad bya  i e of fnr-  IlirI, the Hunchback. By Dr. J. H. Rnbinson.
mrtiesrvis sor  isillustbyaDary m au- is Eight full-page engravings from designs by IDarley.
tiful engravings from designs by D~nrhey antI its Thsh tlopninSut Crininhelty             f
price is-.............................$0 25     Th is tale opens im Soruth Carohnma in the days of
-     the American Revolution. The early scenes open
Blanche ; or the Lost Diamiotd.        A Title    with arrest of an American who for British gold
of the Lights an1 Shades of London.  By Septi-  became a tory spy.  He is in prison, condehnmned
mus R. Urban. Beautifully illustrated with ele-  to die the death of a spy, when ie is visited by a
gant designs by Diley. 'The opening scene is in  loyal young lady to whom he had been engaged
the Weaver's Home.                              to be married, but who, while sie pitins his on-
" Husband-Gils-dear Giles. Oh, say a worth  fortunate position, despises him for the part he
to me--to thie little ones.  God sees us yet, dear  has taken-that of a Spy on his own countrymen.
Giles, and will senits s help.  I am  not hungry  General Marman is here presented to thet rund-r.
-oh, no,no and I don't think Mary anti Luke  Ihis Hirlis a loyal man and makes sw rds nf a
arve ry hungry, dear Giles. They will soon sleep.  superior quality for the Americans. lIe is hunp.
I will go out and see if- if 1 can borrow-"     backed and deaf, and is almost ahot for f;iling tno
Hush, Emma, hush-no! no. It is not hor-   give r'ie countersign to thdsentinelwheni emdt-
row.  It is beg-beg. You mean beg."             eta   There ir- very many scenes of dleepj- andi ab.n-
iHere apparently is a weaver and his poor fTamt-  sorbing interest ii this wmk that ill repanny the
ty in a state of starvation. This is one of the  reader for the outlay of money and i ilime rn-qnuire-d
dnade pictures. Now for the lig/ one.          in their perusal. 'rice-..........,'...o$ 25
' Copies of the above books seat to any address in the United States, free of postage.
8-nd Cash orders to Frederit. A. Brad', Publisher, No. 22 An'm Street, New-York,

F 1

FR rDERIC A. BREADS CATALOGUE.
icUri''8 CELEBRATCu " MERCURY" STORIES.

I.

4
. 7 ,                       t
Y


8                     FREDERIC A. BRADY'S CATALOGUE.
E RAJDY'S CELEBRATED "tMERCURY" STORIES.
Kitty   Atherton ; or a Broken Life. By Melpomene Surf ; or the Little Middy.
Margaret BIlount. Illustrated with six beautiful  By Septimus R. Utitan.  Illustrated by full-page
fulh-pige engravings fr om  designs by Darl-y.  engravings fromtn designs by- Darley. This is an
li is is anuthe I ar interesting story by tlia gifted lit-  intteresting series of tales of Saiilor Lift.. A child
threats, in which are portrayed many incidents toff  is found on the Surf by soite Of the crew of thi
En +glisha Life.                                 Meiptmene Man-of-WlVar's mani, and hence thei
Broken Life!'' says one, '' must lhe either  name" Melponene Stf:."  Ve tatr I iii.given a
tttnethring ncew, or ele tlt print hats rerad the  description of how sailors are iit ressel into the
'copy' wrongly, and made a terrible blunder on  British service ; anu the very many sttategena,
tit'- very first page of his book !"             which are resorted tat to place seamtnt int ait' Eng
"'Nu ! 'Tis no mistake of the pritter's ; 'tiia -  lish Navy. After ti atvare placed on board antdt
thiwin   I i ken lives are far more cmtmonat  are once at sea they will do good service, and at-
thin;  than  broken   hearts ;  they  may he     tend to their whole duty, evetn to fight for their
s'enta ii every direction if you will but turn your  entry's glory. There are the usual number at
r) e uponthe world you livo in. They are simply  chaarcters in this work that make up the whole
atrows that have missed theit matk-treamas that  of such a story,- ta wiho seem  each andt all to
h1v.failed at the fountain heal-ftir and smiling  play a connecting part. There is that ol board-
Sla-ns that have filln itinto harrenneass and  levity  ing-ouse-ktepir,  iwho enle-avors to  keep the
-througha whose faults who can tell 1'  ' St if  " paid off mnt" as long as it is possible, so that
'y at tell, why a heart so faod anl warmta shiohl  the may spend all tieir hard-earned money in the
l                torn to tath le-w ivhtope s  irpur shl' -! fit-a  house, and as soon as poor Jack is ot of the
ad I.lia-why a nature a) inotcenit should11 b for-  blunt he is gently assisted to the clutches of the
a r 'poiled-why a spit it so eager anti beuyant  Press-gang. This highly pleasing and interesting
tah1libe content to fold its pinions, giatel on thu  book is sold at only .................$0 '5
taL til lath aend('  of all -atthly athmgs' *** Anl
ani the enda cihotmi nuiy it not l1+ poassille that Maid of the Ranche'; or the Regula-
h Iltmi  " cityq of r/   w                     ataillre opned to the' lutors and Moderators. A  story of life on the
"'ar ai-' s ibllir ed stloul, antl the great seerct of stchi  Texas Border.  By )r. J. II. Robinson. Illustra
m i i swn-s he t vthal ?   1 hope so. -          faronm designs by Darley. IHee is a story of lift
11av heauuiful is this language. And yi'ti the  in Texasatut the time of its independence from
L ~~wee boo1k is elegantly written mn thti is seet         Mexico. 'The( vividneiss of the('sce'nes, and ilho
It)-,in. A good lriet aabohook. P'iire.... $0 25  ele'gant style of its author in describing them isi
' ~'j he Shell Hunter ; or an Ocean                   Love     w-ell worthy a careful p)erusal. Many of the char-
h Si'   A romance of land and se Bi     Ntd alters ti-e under fcttious rinoas, yet the incidents
o     tii. This  ark is inbaallishetda awitit tight  tare almost entirely matters if the history of that
a titfil iaenei-amgs ly I)alatvy, each tlustrati si beautiful country. Aty one waho has been in the
04th.promninent characters anal scertes in the  " Lone Star State," can tell that this story is
b      ail  bahiet art- alone worth more thanits  matle up of some actual occurrences. At the time
'ue ITis Is al voyage ofa scho(oner tothe coast ofs organization into ain independent govern-
ft aPa fi f-ha i1m- ; where it ennounter s  nm  t, marty flocked there from the States,hat
aarb 's stoirnms, I can nibals. and incident that fast-  found home too warm for comfort, and therefore
a- thnin ot tlhe alt lit tat its hages. Btt.  ssas forced in 'exas that tissciation called Reg-
I .'s sea Sttts tart all a ritteit so cait fully that  ittors and Modet ators. 'They, however, were
iia te ia a ii  intaedlwi  tht nattagent t o t fve-  it asivys fret- ftm talait, yet they succeeded in
Sit s-a ws iaa latrn much in th+' life of a sailor.  oltiig much good. Th'estony is well written and
Price  .....................   - - ...   $   :5  will bear  reading.  Price  ..............$0  25
') he Owlet, or the Royal lighwaynmai. The Conspirators :                 or the Corsair    of
A tale of the Road in tis times of George the  Cape Antonio.  By Arthur M. Grainger. . Five
Thinh. By Se1tiuns R. Urban. Thtirteen full-   beautiful full-page engravings from  designs by
ag- tengravinga fo designs by Darlty. The     DanaIy.  This book contains a large number of
raaai is eartiii heack to that- times of the mad  adventures and cruises of a bucianeer among the
an  blind Kiing of England. Owlet is te noto-  Vest India Islands, in the Cuban Sea. Captain
rtiIuI i' hwiayman that baflies all the celebrated  de Salit, ats he was called, (was in truth a Span.'
itf-t a-   f ta his day.  Many interesting idci-  ish Noble, and connected with the crown of Ar-
da ,- e a t  -related of him. A poor girl is innu-  tagtton,) was for a time a terror to all Spanish ves-
. -n a     alrd for having stolen a diamond hace-  sels, as towards them lie seemed most bitter nd
t                 I«'aLt at  a ,wweha y establi-hment in London.  It  implacable. Letting th empty ships pass around
n.-.-. trds discovered that site was guiltless.  to Mexico, and frtom Spain, he lay in wait for
at t  hit- 'had suffered death no reparatition could  them on their return late with tlhe silver tre-
b- i  aba. I th-ose days the punishment for steal-  tires of the mines. The story a swell written and
in  a- wyig t over torty shillings in value Ws  gives an insight into " Lift in Havana anal Cuba,"
ha   «. Thi'    ohunk is confidently recommended  both on shore and afloat. The reader will be well
tet «l-tin tial reader.  Price ......-.....0 25  paid for his pains in perusing it. Price ..$0 25
I" Copies of the above boks sent to any -.1dress in the United States, free of postage.
Send Cash orders to "tmr-senic A. Brady Publisher, No. 22 Atn Street, New-'ork.


                                               
             
         
       
   
