
    ----CITATION----
        Hancock, Sallie J.. Etna Vandemir .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6614
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Etna Vandemir
             
                 ETNA VAN D EM IR, A ROMANCE KENTUCKY AND "THE GREAT UPRISING.-" BY SALLIE J. HANCOCK, aia OP KENTUCKY. COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME. CUTTER, TOWER & CO. 1863.     WILLIAM ]. CIUAPIN, 8TEREOTYIP:ER AND PRINTER, 128 and 130 Nassau St., New York.                ;    TO MRS. EDMUND J. DAUMONT, OF LOUISVILLE, Ky., WHOSE GOODNESS OF HEART, AND THE CHARMS OF WHOSE MND AND PERSON, HAVE ATTACHED TO HER HOSTS OF ADMRING FRIENDS, &MONO WHOM, THE WRITER FONDLY HOPES TO BE NUMBERED WHLE LIFE SHALL LAST; AND WHOSE FRIENDSHP, UNFALTERING IN ADVERSITY AS IN PROSPERITY, HAS IEEN TO ME AS A BRI  BER T ACON OF HOPE AND PROMSE, ABOVE THE STORMY WAVES OF "IFE'S TREMULOUS OCEAN," THS VOLUME IS AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED.     I    I   PREFACE. DWELLING in the very midst of the "battles and sieges" of a fratricidal war, seeing daily, household} divided, the friends of long years estranged, and the fondest ties of affection rudely severed, I have com- posed this history. Though it depicts, I trust truth- fully, many of the scenes among which it was written, its chief purpose is to relate the story of a human heart, its struggles and its triumphs. If anything shall be found in these pages to strengthen the reader's faith in truth and goodness, or to show how the paths of any who glean wearily in "Time's great seed- field" may be made less rough and thorny, my fondest anticipations will have been realized.      fTNA VANDEMR. CHAPTER I. "OUISVILLE--A VISIT TO "CAVE HLL "--ETNA AT THE GRAVE OF ALLAN STEWART--HOWARD LORRAINE--CHRISTMAS CHMES. CHRISTMAS, 1859.--How pitilessly cold and grey bent down the sky, from which dun chilling mists fell drearily! No sunny beam shot athwart the leaden disk, no ray re- flected upon the steely arch, from faces that smiled wel- come to the anniversary morn: no voice of nature chimed in unison with the merry greetings, melodious heart- echoes from hearth to hearth, of happy homes, bright with blazing fires, and sweet words of Christmas cheer. Earth's flowers and sunshine alike were sleeping in the lap of winter. Sheets of frozen-crusted snow, white as the marble spires in the adjoining necropolis, lay like mantles of unbroken silence upon the city's housetops, and were drawn over far-stretching field and common, above smiling meadow-lands, whose sweet spring clover-blossoms were dead, beneath a blackening mould, the still surface all unmarred in its beautiftul calmness. Particles of dense smoke were incorporated with the light atmosphere, and hung low, like a veil of gloom, on the river's breast. The Ohio, calm, beauteous, majestic, wended -its liquid way,     8         ETNA VANDEMR. bearing southward " a tribute of three thousand miles," compressing tributary mountain streams, turbid and reck- less, within the narrow channel, beneath jutting ice-crags that vainly sought to link an armor of freezing chains above its heaving bosom. Long rows of water palaces extended along the levee. Through closely crowded marts, the business tide flowed ceaselessly. Huge piles of cotton-bales and droves of "live stock" were crowded together in most bewildering confusion. The monotonous hum was varied by the shrill whistle of teamsters, who drove their burdened wagons with that air of responsi- bility, which one might feel if the axle of a hemisphere were resting upon his shoulder. The streams of mer- chandize flowing away along the dark intersecting belts of turnpike, bespoke this the commercial emporium of Kentucky, the depot of southern products, the exchange of the agricultural wealth of two vast sections. Upon the day of which we write the tumult was hushed, no did- cordant sounds disturbed the sabbath stillness. The surg- ing waves ebbed back with memory to a morning scene at Bethlehem, when the birthday of our Saviour was ushered in with the starlight of the world's redemption, the glori- ous herald of a precious promise fulfilled. Ah! it was a memorable hour, that upon which earth knew first her Prince and Redeemer! On one of the principal highways leading from the city, a carriage passed swiftly, drawn by a pair of hand- some chestnut steeds. At a signal the driver passed within the entrance-gate to the cemetery of "Cave Hill," wound slowly among the still tombs, and halted at length in front of a small isolated hillock, unadorned, enclosed within a neat white paling. Two ladies and a gentleman alighted, each bearing a chaplet of flowers, which they placed upon a lone grave, muffled drearily in its cover- ing of frozen snow. The tall cold stone, simple and unpretending, bore the inscription, "ALLAN STEWART, aged 23."   ETNA  VANDEMTR.        9 To the surviving friends how much there was in that mute name! Only they can tell, who have heaped the sod above the throbless bosom of their earliest and best- loved friend, whose name was brightest far in a galaxy of starry names, a mute link in the chain that was broken first when his was written on a tombstone. An expression of keen anguish overspread the hand- some features of the young man. It told how the heart had bled with the breaking of these ties; and his voice trembled with ill-suppressed emotion, as he sadly solilo- quized, apparently unconscious of the presence of the ladies. Ah! it is terrible to die as he died, when the -high hopes of dawning manhood were quickening the pulse! Death at any time is a guest uninvited and unwelcome. Only one short year ago this very day, he told me of his hopes and schemes; and now, alas! how- are they all ful- filled!" A fountain of unshed tears welled up in the deep eyes of Doctor Hastings, and the mists deepened, and- - the cold winds sang low a dirge for the early dead. The veil was thrown dack from the face of the lady nearest him. She was fair as a dream of Eden., Tears, those diamond emissaries from the heart's well-spring of tender- ness, were upon the beautiful cheeks. The striking likeness between her and the gentleman upon whose arm she leaned, betokened their relationship. The other of this trio stood apart. Her brow was haughty almost to sternness, and her manner apparently indifferent. A casual observer might have deemed her utterly devoid of any element of sympathy with the palpable grief of her companions, but for the large midnight eyes, that, like burning coals, glowed with the shadows and sun- gleams of deep feeling. She was young, yet deep thought had already left its impress on her brow. "There is something strangely majestic in the mute-eloquence of the conqueror of conquerors, who has filled earth with records of his ruthless victories." This reflection forcibly re-     10        ETNA VANDEMR. curred to her in the presence of this death. In the early springtime the channel had been reversed, the gushing life-stream ebbed back to the unseen fountain from whence it came, yet bearing the tributary of a terrible grief that had commingled with the pure river of his thoughts, dash- ing to fragments upon the shores of disappointment the structures of a bright and beautiful dream. Her eyes wandered over towering monumental spires, that through the grey mists penetrated the dreary sky above the silent band of sleepers,-over spectral stones, too, gemming this city of tombs,-far beyond to the dim boundary, as if her mental vision would pierce the veil, and solve the mystery that shrouds existence from the first helpless hours of its golden dawn, till the coming shadows of death fall dark- ening into the night which shrouds the long sleep. Was there compensation in that mute realm for the ills of earth, and the hopes gone down unreached, and the promises unfulfilled? Had those dim eyes, that lay so mutely waiting, beheld the glorious light of the covenant? A delirium of undefined reflections possessed her troubled brain, a world-wide range of burning thoughts throbbed at her heart. The spectral spires, like white arms, were stretched imploringly heavenward, as though petitioning for a solution of the doubt and mystery that oppressed her. She scarce heard the w'ords that Dr. Hastings addressed to her: (; Come, Etna; it is time we were 'returning." His tones were sad, but gentle and kind as a brother's. Though, to the knowledge of either, no tie of consanguipity united them, they recognized an affinity which is ofttimes stronger. As one who wandered in the mazes of some troubled dream afar off, she took her position in the vehicle, and was borne rapidly homeward; the snow-covered league between grew quickly less, and they were again in the city. The carriage was stopped at a crossing by a gentle- man who accosted the party with the familiarity of an   ETNA VANDEMR,         " old acquaintance. Christmas greetings were exchanged, and the Doctor answere, in response to an interrogatory of his friend, "We have just returned from a pilgrimage, cold and sad, to Allan's grave,- the first since my return, though the girls go frequently." A visible emotion swept over the features of the gentleman to whom these words were addressed. His was a fine, manly face, beautiful in its sadness; and just now a momentary gleam of indigna- tion crossed the shadow of regret that fell upon it, as though some bitter memory was struggling in his heart. The attention of all was at the moment arrested by the appearance of a lovely woman who greeted them in passing. The gentlemen politely raised their hats, and the ladies with a slight inclination of their heads acknowledged her cordial bow and smile. The eyes of Dr. Hastings fol- lowed her as she went, till Etna recalled his truant vision with a slight exclamation. He, rallying immediately, said, "We shall meet again this evening, Howard, at ten." "Thank  you," answered Mr. Lorraine, as with a profound bow he closed the door, and the carriage was again whirling on its way. Passing along Fourth street to Broadway, they were soon at home. The stream of busy life surged through the Christmas street. Voices of merriment mingled in a confused. din, with bells that chimed in clear silver tones, such as will bespeak the glorious second appearing of the mighty Son of the morning. Careful feet found their way to houses of worship, every face a picture of the inner life of which the great world knows so little, softened by the existence of an attribute, that casts a mellow radiance over the sternest features, and brightens into life-likenesses the canvased faces that make the glory of Raphael and Michael Angelo. Here was the smiling beauty of a happy wife, that bespoke the realization of sweet joys and the fulfil- ment of high hopes generating in the world of her own home; and calm content upon the brow of him who walked i I   n     12        ETNA VANDEMR. firmly and hopefully by her side. Thus together they tread the mazes of life's doubts and fears, in the glorious light of the lone star that beamed so sweetly in the heaven of their fireside. With the returning of each happy day, he visited, perchance, his round of patients, or scanned the evidence in some endless lawsuit, or wore the long hours away in a close counting-room, thinking of the hour when, the labors of the day being ended, home should be reached. Ah! there is a sweet pleasure in duty, in fulfilling the high and holy purposes of man's creation! Ah! there are heart-chords unswept, the burden of whose sweetest songs would be this glorious " fireside music of the breast," that makes earth a paradise, and existence a harmony of love and pleasant dreams. This priceless boon is the portion of few,-a blessing denied to many, to whose wild petitions fate has uttered a cruel " nay," leaving them " alone in crowds to wander on," thirsting vainly for the sweet draught. Groups of happy children were gaily chatting of the fairy gifts with which "Santa- claus" had enriched them. Many little eyes, opening brightly at the dawn, looked in wonder at the htige tree, like Alladin's palace, erected in a single night, bending beneath its profusion of fairy gifts,-creatures of earth and air, fruits from every clime, confections in gorgeous array,-all conspiring to make this morn of joy live long in memory. How clearly and merrily pealed the light tones whose echo pealed from room to room! How brief is the season of pleasure we enjoy in childhood! Very soon the parti-colored tapers burn low, and one by one go out, as once went out a little life, of which we can hardly trust ourselves to speak, leaving dark and dreary the days that followed those Christmas days. How bright and happy was she upon that remembered morn! -and hearts too, that were pangless then, echoed her sweetly expressed wish, " that Christmas and springtime would last forever." The hours of the coming year went by, but we wreathed no Christmas trees for her, neither   ---     ETNA VANDEMR.         13 dihe on earth gather more flowers; for when the merry holidays e  gone, she too went away, and when the other season she s  eooved came forth from Winter's realm, like a young bride with blushes and orange wreaths, she had gathered an unfading garland in the land of God! In a little far-off grave we laid her, embalmed in the first rosy breath of springtime, beneath a shroud of green sward, with violets for her pillow. The lucent sunlight of morning and the flowery dews of evening rest lightly on her grave, where the freshness of two hearts lies buried. A blessed soul-cheering ray of immortality, slanting earth- ward, lighted her brief pilgrimage in this tear-dimmed vale. Oh! how ached our hearts when the sunny radiance was withdrawn! though, gentl as flowers die; she smiled a farewell such as angels smile, and left us for the long rest; "And though hot tears fel thick as dew Upon the green and h llowed -sod, No bud of hope so pure and true Would- raise its head a ove the clod As that which on our bo opn grew, To blossom in the home of God!" Shall we ever again clasp the hand that penned this beautiful tribute to the child-friend, that so loved him? Glorious poet! kindly gentleman.! Bright be thy life, rich in its ever-beauteous creations! And when this fierce worldly strife is ended, 4 may the turf grow green " above the spot where shall rest as noble a heart as ever throb- bed out the measure of its God-given mnanliness! Ah! years may come and go ere we in our gratitude shall cease to remember thee! Of the vast multitudes who walk earth with the springing tread of youth, the firm exultant footstep of mid-life, or the faltering pace of age, many surely garner within the sanctuary of memory some trea- sured reminiscence of the auspicious season, whose preced- ing Ione was ever our delighted anticipation, and whose mornings always broke bright and cheery within ;--a id sunny smiles of greeting and hand-pressures that lingered     "        ETNA VANDEMR. long, when the voices whose tones were sweetest music in a dear remembered home of long ago had Heft us but their faintest treasured echo, and the genial light had faded from eyes that were the portals to a soul that held our image, and death's cruel ice had chilled the sweet lips that ever spoke for us so kindly and hopefully ' A merry Christmas!" How  strangely blended are light and shadow upon every picture with which the great gallery of life is hung! So there are chapters very sad and mournful in the Christ- mas volume of sunny memories! A few weeks hence, in her home beyond the seas, a friend will break the seal of a delicate tear-stained missive, and read while her eyes will grow dim with mists of memory! "The dear remembered days of our past are mine still unforgotten! Ah! how happy were we when hand in hand we walked the flowery paths of girlhood,-little dreaming how dreary a wilderness stretched beyond the dim boundary! Do you remember how, upon the eve of our parting, we sat upon the broad slate rock of your river-girded home, while the July morn wept down a sil- ver sheen upon the wild waves as they broke in gushes of farewell tenderness at our feet? No change, darling! to that rock and river-side home, has come in the sweet moons that have come and gone; but many, many have come to us, and sorrows wild and deep have fallen, as the years upon their stormy feet have swept by. Though II have learned to wear my gilded and costly mask, dearest, yet none may know how oft my heart, almost breaking, has turned again through the dark intervening space to the sunshine of that old time! The world has called me cynical, and proud, and cold, never guessing the heavy weight I bear! You too, darling, have suffered: your idols have been broken, by a sterner hand, a relentless power that gives them not back again; and a great wil- derness of land and water has grown up between us! In the days and hours of this world's seasons shall we ever   ETNA  VANDEMR.        15 sit there again, this side eternity? Time. in the year to come will tell. God alone knowet."3 This was but a feeble wail with which to chronicle a lifetime of anguish. That sweet poetess, Mary Clemmor Ames, with the exquisite and refined perceptions of genius, has given voice to many a hitherto unrecorded grief. Have you read "Varana Vane"T Who can note the pangs that flow out in strains of liquid melody which tell the slow breaking of those two hearts whom fate had severed, without a tear for their sufferings, and a blessing for her who has so sweetly sung them? There are those who, walking the sunniest lifepaths, forget, when wearing the rose-crown and wielding the' bright sceptre, the manyovho plod wearily over the bar-  ren sands of poverty. There comes no jubilant Christ- mas season to the poor. This anniver ary day dawns like all others, bit only the glory of rem mbrance brings light and joy to them. The gay smile on and dance, and the careless and indifferent still dream ll-unheeding. Why do they not,' following the example f the worthy Master, dispense gifts of charity and deeds\of kindness, consecrating this, of all other days, to the performance of noble and generous actions? Oftentimes in the simplest home, sweetened by the toil that purchased it, we find content, that rare bird which seeks not always for a rest- ing-place within the palatial domains of the rich hover- ing with calm wings by those scanty firesides. Thankful hearts, too, are these suffering-taught ones! They rarely fail to consecrate the one God-given talent, for they have. learned in a bitter school the philosophy of existence: yet its Christmas lessons of self-denial are hardest far to learn of all those contained in the tear-bound volume of expe- rience.     CHAPTER      II. The fete-Debut of Miss Hastings and Etna-Woman's wiles. THE day closed cheerless as it had dawned. One by one the cold bright stars came out, smiling as the mists fell lower in the twilight sky. The scintillant eyes that keep a night-watch above earth, with spectral gleams that ever set us dreaming of the season when all these shall have passed, and " a new Heaven and a new Earth," fresh from the hand of Him at the sound of whose majestic voice, life, light and time were born, shall fill aerial spacefa heritage fair and bright for earth's faithful ones. "There was a sound of revelry by night;" fair women and brave men, the wit, beauty and chivalry Of our proud city, the proudest in all the land, were assembled within the handsome mansion of Manfred Hastings, on Broad- way. A magnificent suite of apartments on either side the spacious hall, brilliantly illuminated, presented an array of sumptuous grandeur unsurpassed in our world of the West. New hopes were generating amid the chaos of fashion; new stars this night were born. The recognized devotees of seasons two or more, were aroused to some- thing like enthusiasm, caused by the anticipated entre of the daughter and ward of the host. The atmosphere was redolent with the perfumed breath of rare exotics; multi- form mirrors smiled back visions of exquisite loveliness, faces radiant with hope and joy. Lofty blows were bent eagerly to catch silvery tones that thrilled, with strange ' magic, manly hearts upon which they fell in witching melody. Heads grown grey with years and care, grew dizzy 16   ETNA VANDEMR.         17 at beholding the unending round of mazurkas and redowas, and younger days came back to many who. had almost ceased to remember them, as they watched forms swaying to the exhilarating music of the lancers." Lightly trip- ped the golden hours amid gossamer robes and flowers wreathed fantastically, rustling brocades and flashing dia- monds. It seemed as though Time, that venerable digni- tary, had joined in the festival, and leaning upon theworn staff of years, was leniently watching the golden moments, as they sported around him. No one sighed for or-dreamed of to-morrow's dawn. Mr. and Mrs. Elwood had come from Wilton under the escort of Dr. Hastings, to be pres- ent on this occasion. It was long since they had witness- - ed such a scene, and they enjoyed it as befits the silver hair and the faltering feet of age. Years hadnot dimmed the brightness of the perpetual summer that reigned in their souls, ever fresh in the glory of youth,-and now manifest in the flush of excitement that denoted their fond pride in "the children."a How shall we describe Mellie Hastings, as she entered the rooms at an early hour, leaning gracefully upon the arm of her grandfather, Judge Elwood, with a meetword of' greeting and welcome for all her numerous guests and admirers? The blooming May and white December it seemed, side by side.  Miss Hastings wore a dress of silver gauze, that fell glistening like mist in the morning sunlight. over a robe of azure satin. An exquisite bertha of point lace fell in soft, delicate folds from her superbly moulded shoulders, a wreath of snowy heliotrope and scar- let geranium was curiously interwoven with the glossy bands of her luxuriant chestnut hair, matching shade for shade with the most beauteous pair of eyes that ever mir- rored the glory of the inner temple of a soul! Her face, when turned full upon the beholder, was lighted by one of the most genial, glowing expressions ever worn by mortal! We doubted, when first we gazed upon her, if Egypt's beautiful Queen was half so dazzling in -her regal lovcli- *     18        ETNA VANDEMB. ness! It was no marvel that Mark Antony with cc such lofty scorn did cast a world away for Cleopatra's lips!" It was a strange witchery that encircled his great heart with Circean bands more powerful than life! In classic contour of form and feature, she was faultless. Yet it was not the spell of her wondrous beauty that caused you to "long for her presence again," and remem- ber her once seen as you would remember none other! It was the expression of ineffable sweetness that hovered in a conquering charm about her lips. The liquid melody of her tones, when she spoke to you, sank deep into your soul, softening into exquisite harmony, brightening the dark shadows there, linking latent thoughts into a gor- geous array of tangible ideas, and leaving the suddenly awakened chords all trembling with delirious joy! The most commonplace word spoken by her seemed part of the enchanting thraldom in which mind and sense were mutu- ally fettered! And whose was the lithe form at her side? Arrayed in spotless white, destitute of ornament, save the coronet of clustering pearls that crossed the wavy masses of raven hair and held them banded, as with fretwork of glistening frost, ere they strayed a bevy of wanton jetty curls to. her slender waist. The creamy pallor of her face rendered more striking from contrast with the large midnight eyes, -slumberous, volcanic, mirroring forth the stormy deeps of soul; yet cold, passive, and seemingly guarded to the casual observer; unless she deigned to favor you with a glance, inquisitive or responsive, from beneath the long dark lashes that invariably caused you to hold your breath and "stand aside," and ever set you dreaming of the fatality of poisoned arrows of the Indian on the far- off Western frontier! The clear expanse of brow, radi- ant in the light of genius, and again o'ershadowed by the calm majesty of deep thought; the features clearly cut, classic; the terrible blackness of the over-arching brows, -were the separate mental and personal attributes that   ETNA VANDEMJR.         19 constituted a strange, mystic picture, whose semblance be- spoke an untoward commingling of antagonistic elements. Her features, in repose, were transfixed, as it were, with an uncompromising hauteur, that might have deepened, seemingly, into an icy cynicism, but for the trusting con- fidence of her. manner,-a manner inimitable as her face, wholly incompatible with the inexperience of youth;-a striking illustration of the precocity of genius, and its effects upon material life. It was a face which, even in a first hurried glance, became set in a framework of memory, as though its lineaments were traced with a diamond point; -a pale, calm statue, that took its destined place in some unoccupied niche in the gallery of life-pictures, whose semblance, though shadowy, never faded out in after years; -a face whose gloomy unrest caused one to think that the one great need of her nature had been left unsupplied since, upon a dreary day, long years before, Etna had stood by her mother's grave-side, her little wierd face transfixed, while grief, the deepest a child can know, broke into the dead silence of her young heart, as with fixed, tearless eyes, she saw cruel hands heap cold clods upon the pulse- less bosom of her only friend. One restless, inadvertent glance revealed, more eloquently than words, how utterly the sweet visions of a trusting youth had departed and its dreams been broken by the tempest of this one great sor- row, as it swept over the garden of her childhood, leaving the cravings of her soul unstilled, its bright hopes unreach- ed, and its aspirations unfulfilled. Leaning with stately grace upon the arm of Dr. Hast- ings, she took a position in the quadrille then forming. Her every movement displayed the proportions of a form that seemed the embodiment of symmetry and grace, ap- proximating perfection. The dance being ended, she ac- cepted the proffered arm of Howard Lorraine, a friend of Dr. Hastings, whose acquaintance she had formed during her sojourn at the Academy in Philadelphia. He was of magnificent proportions-handsome-far the handsomest     20        ETNA VANDEMR. man she had ever seen. He had the manners of one who had tried the world and knew it well, yet he wore an air of conscious rectitude, which they alone wear who have never renounced their allegiance to virtue. Etna, with the keen perception of genius, recognized in his a grand soul with which her own might soar into realms of exqui- site fancy, and pure and holy thoughts. They talked freely and without restraint, of many things, his remarks being chiefly pertinent to the occasion, and to the individuals present. One she remembered long after. Mellie Hast- ings had swept by them, leaning on the arm of a young gentleman, a dweller in the city, whose face was so radiant that Etna doubted not but a life-secret was revealed in that one inadvertent glance. His words confirmed her fears. "Seville will surely bear off that prize; he is just the reckless spirit to win the heart of a young girl who is guileless and unsuspeting as Miss Hastings. He is a noble fellow, but too wild by half; he is now living on the residue of a handsome patrimony, left him by his mother, which he has well-nigh squandered in two years of dissi- pation and folly." Mellie, with fairy-like grace, floated through the dance with Gerald Seville. They promenaded and chatted and sang away the bright flowing hours of the evening. They had met often before, but this was their first communion; and they never dreamed that it would overshadow all their future,-that the great hand of destiny was then fashioning the lifelong cross for the one; the friendless death and an early grave for the other. Yet the bright dewy season of love must have its dawn! It was thus with them, and has been so with others, ever since love's first whisper was heard in Eden. Thus it will be until life shall cease, and loving and dreaming shall be no more. Apart from the throng, resting from the fatigue occa- sioned by the brilliant polka, two peerless beauties were discussing the merits of the debutantes, one of whom the speaker seemed to regard as her own rival.   ETNA VANDEMR.         21 "I am sure I cannot imagine how it is, that some deluded ones persist in calling her pretty, when ten to one of those who consider themselves judges would not consider Etna Vandemir even passable! Besides, as I heard a gentle- man (George Ashby) remark in the supper-room, Her supercilious manner, and conspicuous display of her talents, well-nigh degenerated into commonplace pedantry.' He adde that she was perfectly unapproachable, and entirely V-keyond the range of his comprehension." The speaker was the lady to whom the gentleman had doffed his hat so gallantly, during that brief conversation in the street on the forenoon of the same day. She was Mabel Winchester, the cousin of Howard Lorraine. The world pronounced her beautiful; yet hers was a face like hundreds we meet in our daily walks, Which command the homage of our fancy.  Faultless features, brilliant com- plexion, perfection of figure, exert an almost regal sway; but the durability of the spell is another matter! The judg- ment does not always sustain the fancy. There are faces upon which we gaze, much as we would look upon a beauti- ful picture: they are soulless, and fade from memory when they are no longer near us, as our wayward visionsometimes vanish with the dawn of an enduring love!  The lady of whom we speak was one of those to whom we would apply the soubriquet cc sweet,"-whose amiability oft consists of stereotyped smiles, dispensed at will, and lavished alike on all. A remarkable versatility characterized her inter- course with gentlemen, judging from  her success in the exercise of her favorite talent. She was thoroughly im- bued with the spirit of coquetry; and angelic as Miss Winchester seemed, she  gave heed to no inconvenient scruples of conscience, in the pursuit of her artful policy. It was manifest in her ruthless conquests, and the ignoble subterfuges to which she occasionally resorted to accom- plish her purposes, that she had little regard for the truth, and looked upon virtue as a meaningless term. 'T is the absence- of truth in the minutiae of her winning process,     22        ETNA VA NDEM1R. more frequently than the exercise of the fascinations that beauty and wit may summon, that brings conquests to the tincrupulous flirt. 'T is a tempting guise which falsehood wears, and yet it is a mystery to the uninitiated, that will long remain un- solved,-the inveterate chains, potent as the fateful web of Circe, with which these vacillating creatures fetter the ardent fancy of the sterner sex. What man whose sun has climbed midway to the zenith, does not remember a time when a certain pair of eyes made for him the light of all the world; whose Parthian glance, love-beaming, caused him to tremble, as a battalion of his country's enemies could not have done; when the touch of a small white hand has well-nigh transported him unto the seventh heaven; and the rustle of a silken garment, a fairy drapery, set him dreaming of the rustling of angels' wins? The lady to whom Miss Winchester addressed her words of censure and pique, concerning Etna, was one whose love of truth and justice rose above envy or wounded pride, even had there then been the slightest cause for either. She belonged to that noble class of women, who do not hesitate to express an opinion in advocacy of the right, and who always wear the glittering armor of truth, from which the barbed shafts of malignity fall harmless. It was thus she answered her: cI do not think her pedantic; nevertheless, admitting the assertion to be correct, she has just reason to be proud, for, in addition to a classical education, her reading and miscellaneous information are far beyond those of most girls of her age. You should have seen her in the Acad- emy during seasons of recreation,-alone in the library, poring over volumes of abstruse science or history, men- tal philosophy and rhetoric, ceaselessly, by night and day! She was the object, for a time, of many unjust animadver- sions, owing to her exclusive habits, and we were all thoroughly imbued with a spirit of resentment, arising   ETNA VANDEMR.         23 from what we deemed her assumed superiority and her arrogance. There was not a girl in the Institute but was impressed with the conviction that Etna was utterly heart- less, until one of our number, a boarder, from Montgom- ery, Ala., Clara Stewart by name, became suddenly and alarmingly ill. Clara was one of those unfortunate crea- tures who possessed peculiarities of manner which brought her sometimes into conflict with the system of government in vogue at the school; and, seemingly deliberate in her heedless disregard of rules, she was constantly falling into disgrace, and became the subject of censure and miscon- struction both by teachers and pupils. Etna, with her usual sagacity, saw that all this was the fault of some onfe- beside the girl herself, evidencing a want of early discip- line,--a thing not to be wondered at, seeing that her parents had died in her youth, and she had been placed in charge of a wealthy aunt, who left -her to the compan- ionship of her slaves. To our great surprise, Etna laid aside her beloved books,-actually renounced Butler,Blair, Gibbon, and scores of others to which she had become wedded during vacation, and which occupied her hours of leisure, independently of her school duties,-and assumed the strange task of nursing the friendless girl who was ill so very far from home. Perhaps she was drawn to her by the fact that both were orphans ;--for Etna's mother had been dead many years. Day and night, without intermis- sion or relief, she watched by her side duing the weeks that intervened between the beginning of/a severe attack of typhoid fever, and the poor girl' lmely death. Theirs had been a strange intimacy, sNundemonstrative, so utterly devoid of those interchange4 tender confi- dences and caresses, which usually charac ze-the friendly intercourse of schoolgirls. It was curious to observe them. There was a perfect understanding between them; they had no need of words. Not so much as a faint pres- sure of the hand betrayed the affectionate devotion of the. one, or the voiceless gratitude of the other.     24        ETNA VANDEMR. "Only once did -Etna manifest any visible emotion, and then two or three great tears were wrung out by the inten- sity of her grief, and fell upon the marble face, scarce whiter than her own. While lifting the poor head, after it had ceased to suffer, from the pillow that had borne its aching tortures, she found a small manuscript volume of poems. -She pressed her lips tenderly to the little tear- stained record, and laid it in the coffin by the side of the dead. Grief that was unspoken while the sufferer lived, thought she, should leave no voice to stray over earth's wilderness, whispering its sad story after death. She held sacred the little orphaned volume, and it was buried with its author. c Clara had a brother, Allan, attending lectures in Phila- delphia, a gallant fellow; half the girls in the Institute were raving about his handsome face, of which they had obtained glimpses during chance visits to his sister. He was a protege of our host, a friend and fellow student of Dr. Hastings,-one of those young men whose natures are generous to a fault, uniting impetuosity with an exquisite sense of honor; trusting and guileless as children, and upon whose sensitive organizations a harsh word falls heavily as a blow. He was almost delirious with grief when his sister died; and although from Etna's reserved manner he dared not approach her to speak all that he felt toward her who had been so kind to the dear dead one, yet I saw him press the hem of her long veil almost reverently to his lips, as she was placing in the waxen hands the win- ter flowers she had procured from a neighboring conser- vatory. I shall never forget his agonizing cry, when the grating key creaked and trembled in the great iron lock that closed the door of the vault between brother and sister. "Aq few days previous to the arrival of the messenger that was to convey the remains of Clara to her sunny Southern grave, the newspapers chronicled Allan Stewart's sudden death from hemorrhage. His death had occurred scarce a fortnight after hers."   ETNA VANDEMR.         25 The beautifil rose-tints faded from the cheeks and brow of Mabel Winchester, and its stony whiteness was dread- 'ul to behold. Her companion was too much absorbed to observe this, or seemed to be so, and she pursued her kindly mission of wrapping the mantle of charity about the frail- ties of a sister friend,-one of the great family of human- ity,-a fellow actress in the tragic scenes of life,-and at once resumed the conversation. "The routine of school life re-established, Etna became cold and impenetrable as before: though we often found her sitting listlessly, without a book, pondering, doubtless, on the frailty of existence.--each life one little wave in the great surrounding sea, possessing no more individual- ity, save within the narrow circle of our loves or personal animosities, immersed in the returning ebb after having sunken amid grave-sands on the echoless shore of eternity! She spoke no word of her grief, nor was she ever heard to mention Clara's name ;--only, when Allan died she spoke to Dr. Hastings of a feud existing between him and his aunt, and implored the Doctor not to send the remains South, but to give them a place in their unoccupied family lot at ' Cave Hill.' She was well .aware that Allan-was not wealthy, and that a meagre patrimony was nearly consumed in pursuing his professional studies. For Clara's sake, therefore, would they render unto him the charity of a quiet tomb among friends. Your cousin Howard came out with them, and has been in Kentucky ever since. He says he likes our State much better than any he has visited since his sojourn here; and I will venture to say," contin- ued she, ," that he would not agree With the profoundindi- vidual who could not comprehend Etna. They seem to enjoy each other's society very much, judging from their exclusiveness." The conversation was degenerating into the prosaic and commonplace. Miss Weston realized this, and as she had not quite had her say, she resumed quickly, for Miss Win- chester, having recovered her equanimity under the sound     26        ETNA VANDEMR. of Nclrie's voluble tongue, was turning uneasily in her seat, as though she feared a recurrence of her former nar- rative!"Oh!" exclaimed she, with much gravity, C"I truly commiserate poor George Ashby! I really think some one, in charity,--either Mr. Lorraine or myself, as we seem to be the only ones who do understand her,- should give him the benefit of a written experience, detail- ing the exact amount of sagacity requisite to approach and fathom our social problem. Though I will politely inform him that he may not expect to sound her depth of mind and heart with the line and plummet of his levity. Per- haps he is not aware that there are many chapters in the volume of a woman's inner life too profound for a cursory perusal,-to say nothing of the spotless pages, bound in the same series, upon which the untiring fingers of thought and reflection are constantly penning their inscription, beneath the supervision of that stern teacher, Experience. There are many books in the mental stores of other lives, to which we may devote hours of unremitting research, and each succeeding page will reveal some unfathomed depth of thought or feeling, something hitherto unrevealed; but for the most part it is light literature, of the class we do not care to peruse. In truth, we can generally imagine the contents after reading the preface, and beholding the yellow vestments in which they are clad. It requires the labor of years to perfect us in the science that furnishes a key to the enigma, a solution of the charade, so simple and yet so profound,--woman's heart. The firail sentient thing has baffled and puzzled the mighty of earth, since Time has chronicled his reign by years and centuries. Then would not he possess almost superhuman knowledge were he enabled by the aid of his powerful intellect to elucidate the mystery at a first glance? "But," she added gaily, "( George and I are very good friends, and I must not be unljust or unkind to him, not- withstanding he was both to Etna. Though I  will wager a pair of gloves against his lavender necktie, that should   ETNA VANDEMR.         27 he come to know her more, he will assume toward her a a very devotional attitude before the season is closed, even at the risk and detriment of his new pantaloons, Has- kell's' ' latest importation.'" "It would not surprise me in the least," answered Mabel coldly; c" it is a position to which he invariably aspires toward any new divinity! He is sublimely fatu- ous. But why are you Mot dancing?" added Nellie. "s I came into the reces to rest. A violent headache has attacked me suddenly; I feel sick and faint!" And / in truth she was suffering, whether from the pangs of re- morse, or nervous debility, Nellie could not decide, so she added kindly, " How inconsiderate in me to afflict you thus! Why did you not speak of this earlier?" Though it seemed to ]Miss Weston that the splenetic attack which had cabled forth the endless tirade, betrayed the existence of a feel- ing not attributable to extreme physical suffering. Each of the ladies lapsed into a fit of profound musing, exempt from intrusion, and concealed by the drapery of heavy damtask that shrouded the divan and the bay win- dow where they sat. Very -soon they heard voices. in aninlated discussion. A lady spoke hurriedly, as though contesting some important point, and, with woman's perti- nacity, refusing to yield. The-gentleman stood toying with- her beautiful pearl fan, and there was a look of thoughtfulf gaiety on his features that betokened his deep interest in the conversation. He had found one who did more than amuse him : every word and motion of the strange, orig- inal being was to him a profound study.  Etna's face was not marble now, but glowing with enthusiasm that gave force and character to her words. In answer to a questidn from him, she said, "Yes! I do consider a promise, no matter how trifling and unimportant it may seem to others, of vast impor- tance to those who fail to respect it. It is a compact be- tecon the person qwho makes it and the one to whom it is a,     28         ETNA VANDEMR. made, involving a moral obligation that should be consid- ered as binding as the most solemn oath, and should ever be preserved and fulfilled inviolate;--and a man or wo- man who would deliberately disregard his or her word in the slightest degree would forfeit my respect forever! Neglect of trifles of this nature betrays a man's estimate of his own integrity. If he wantonly tampers with his own honor, he deserves to lose the regard of his friends, and his own self-respect! This, however trivial it may seem, is the first of a long list of acts portending the utter wreck of manliness. I consider every broken promise as a compromise effected with truth at the expense of moral rectitudle." Youll are rirght," responded he, thoughtfully; " but there are circumstances palliative in many instances." ' Ail, yes!" she answered; " and to the kingly mandate of these all mulst bow ; but if you remember correctly, I referred to promises broken deliberately or through neglect!" "One would ilnagine," continued he, "that you, who are so great an advocate of truth, in its strictest sense, would be equally scathing in your strictures in regard to those of your sex who 'are addicted to the practice of flirting, thereby mnaking of falsehood a profession. A very delightful occupation, I have no doubt," he added bitterlv, aside. ' "You are aware tlat I have just entered upon my social pilgrimage, and aln not presumed to know the ways of the great world around, as I have long been a recluse, prostrate at the altar of science. Yet my observation has taught me that there are those who are apostates to truth and honor; guilty of falsehood, in its double, treble sense, under the guise of an innocent flirtation,-untruth in its most culpable semblance! 'Obtaining goods under false pretenccs' should be the verdict. Laying a voluntary heart-tax, without a care or thought of liquidation or reprisal;--not the less amenable that the Circean fetters   ETNA VANDEMR.       .  29 are garnished with honeyed words and wreathed with iris- hued flowers! The awakening, when it comes, and come it must, is only tenfold more bitter! The pertinacious afterthoughts and tantalizing reflections are only harder to bear. 6 But," she added, in a gayer strain, 6 I should not constitute myself Censor-Geneal; neither do I mean to individualize. I am most emphatically opposed to per- sonalities, and would refer you to the line of demarcation drawn by that inimitable artist, Ike Marvel, whose pic- tures are all life-size, between flirtation and coquetry. The former he execrates, as do all true men, but concedes the latter to be the utterance of pleasantries, by mutual consent. I am not yet such a prude that I could attach blame to this simple means of social diversion; though it is rather dangerous, this sporting with bubbles on the sunny surface of deeps that poison heart and soul. Very unpleasant consequences are ofttimes entailed. Those of the weaker party become inextricably entangled in the meshes of their own harmless nets; but the fault is theirs; they alone are answerable for such results, and we will not be so magnanimous as to accord to them our sympathy. This is kindly charity, is it not?"He seemed profoundly absorbed and interested in her words, and she added: "' However excusable coquetry may be, I hold that the man or woman who will deliberately trifle away the life's hap- piness of a fellow-creature, who will rifle the treasure without which the heart is but a pulsating- machine, the trust which comes but once, and once gone can never be restored, is certainly beneath honest contempt. Excuse me if I speak warmly, for I feel this." He bent his full dark eyes upon her face, searchingly, as' though he would read her answer while yet he spoke. "Do you believe, that when a man with confident hope and truthful, honest purpose, would cast them down at the feet of the woman whom he loves, and4 she, after having lured him on, would pitilessly scorn the gift, or 2xpress     30        ETNA VANDEMR. such profound surprise as to render his sanity a question- able matter, even to himself,-do you think no other love can come to him?" The clear eyes met his unflinchingly. "c Faith," said she, " is a primitive gift, a single attri- bute of the human soul. We can have but one faith. If that is frittered away by a ruthless hand, it may perchance, in the lapse of years, be renewed,-though never toward the same object; but no new faith will be given us." Was it intentional that Howard Lorraine should have led Etna to a divan, near the enclosure where Miss Winches- ter was reclining? His cousin made a faint effort to arise, but sank back, as though bound to the spot. The color rose and fell in her beautiful cheeks, like the flowery waves of tinted spring breezes. He spoke. The clear tones rang out cold, knell-sounding, as did once those of the "kingly master of Europe's queenly mistress," when he spoke the cruel words that doomed two proud lives,- one to hopeless ruin, to the gilded tower, the shrine of his own ruthless ambition; the other to a life of loneli- ness and desolation, and the destiny of a vain love, in the palace halls of her nominal prison at Malmaison. c I once knew a young man, who had staked his all upon what might be the response of a capricious woman. He was confident in his hopes, as one who deemed his hap- piness a certainty. I saw him but a few hours before the denouement. One might have thought the fairest treasures of earth and sky had been gathered by some sweet guar- dian spirit to strew his pathway, and sunbeams had quad- rupled to brighten his glorious future with her. 6"A short time after, I was summoned to his side, when the small remnant of his life was ebbing slowly and surely away. His proud head lay mutely upon the white pillowrs, as though he had been suddenly and hopelessly stricken down by a brutal hand. His eyes were closed, and he was feebly and patiently wiping the crimson life-current from his lips. He grasped my hand when I came to him,   ETNA VANDE3IIR.        81 and spoke her name,-not with imprecations or anathemas, as many would have done, but with the broken anguish of 'despair. Love was still stronger than pride in his mighty, sunken heart. "It was torturing, during the long hours that followed, to hear him implore her not to reject him or renounce the love that was hers alone, in such pitiful, pleading towes; and when delirium relaxed its torturing hold in the balm that preceded the last mortal struggle, in that plaintive voice that sounds like winter winds; whispering through churchyard grass, in the still spectral moonlight, he told her of the dark valley and 'the life to come,' in which he felt he should have no part! He was no infidel, only a man whose love was stronger than his life, and the doom of Adam was upon him. "I closed his eyes, as I would have closed a brother's, and left placidly at rest him who twenty-four hours before was in the pride and glory of an exalted manhood. "Yet there is still another phase. She who had wrought --the ruin of this noble being, and caused his untimely death, in the hushed silence of midnight, as I kept a lonely vigil in an adjoining room, came to his hotel by stealth, her fair face veiled, and knelt by the rigid form. Ah! I knew there was a feeling in her heart that was strong and wild i  and deep! If love, it must be ever hopeless, if it was doomed to be as enduring as her life-long sorrow!" No other word was spoken for a long time; each was absorbed in reflection. Miss Weston suggested to Mabel, in pursuance of her former theory, "Could each read in the mind of the other the pages upon which are chronicled their separate thoughts, what a diversity they would present, even as regards this pathetic narrative!" To her great surprise, Mabel made no response. The beautiful features remained fixed and rigid as stone. She sat mute as though counting the beatings of her heart. There were tears in Etna's eyes when she spoke again.     32        ETNA VA NDEMR. "After all, the crime is the same; the results only differ. In this instance the woman was more culpable, perhaps, if in truth there could be deg'ces in a crime whose first issue demands that she shall play traitor to her best in- stincts, and debase her womanhood. Yet 'the untimely death of the victim is not always, in my estimation, the most fearful sequel. There are those who walk earth clad in the vestments of sin, recklessly trampling manhood beneath their fect,-hopeless inebriates, joyless anchorites, who have come down from heights where, perchance, nature and circumstances may have placed them, and are aimlessly wearing out their wretched lives. Oftelitimes, could we but trace, link by link, the long, intricate chain of circum- stances that has dragged them down, we would find that the first fetter was woven long ago by a woman's hand,- woven for the amusement of the arbitress of their fate! 1 think you will agree with me, and decide, as I have done. that death is preferable to such a life as they lead." At this juncture Dr. Hastings came in search of Mabel; and young Martin, who was looking very miserable at the non-appearance of Nellie, came forth to solicit her hand for the next quadrille,-when the curtain was raised, that revealed to him the lovely truant's hiding-place.! Again he spoke, but now constrainedly, as though he would not recklessly hazard the question, and yet had nerved himself to meet the response. There was the slightest possible shade of irony in the tones. c"Dr. Hastings seems the favored recipient of the smiles bf my cousin. She is playing for a handsome prize, though she can scarcely be successful." "I hope not," answered Etna, frankly. "I lament his seeming infatuation. I admit Miss Winhiester is fair; in truth I think her the most beautiful wj man I have ever seen; but there is much in her character of which he would soon grow weary. I do not think them at all suited to each other." "I am surprised that he wears his engagement so lightly.   ETNA VANDEMR.         33 You are more magnanimous than most ladies; they are usually exclusive and exacting." Etna looked up in wonder and astonishment, but she spoke coldly in answer: "While I thank you for the pleasantry, I cannot imagine your meaning in this instance. Dr Hastings engaged to whom?"  Your pardon, Miss Vandemir; I learned on first com- ing to the city that you were the chosen of his heart." ", Is it possible that any one could have so wilfully mis- represented our friendship? I shall never marry any one," said she, while a shadow darkened her face. "And were Harry possessed of such a desire, he could never be more to me than he now is,-a kindly friend, an affectionate bro- ther. I trust he will never be less than this. I am con- fident that neither had such a thought or dreapm." He believed she spoke the truth, although his cousin had positively asserted that, to her knowledge, Dr. Hastings and Etna would be married at an early period, professing to have derived her information from Miss Hastings. He whom manoeuvring mammas and fair damsels 'had voted invulnerable,-he who had closed to the world the avenues to his great heart, and set a seal upon his lofty nature, was beginning to learn anew the sweet lesson of trust, and to Etna he gave that confidence which had sprung into renewed existence, quickened into life by a smile, and by truthful, earnest words. Confidence to Etna was a voluntary, a spontaneous trib- ute,-the answering voice to the unaffected and touching artlessness of her manner. What joy it was, thought he, to find one wearing the white robes of truth among the flimsy pretenders who wear their womanhood so lightly! His acquaintance with metropolitan society in two conti- nents had quickened his perception of intrinsic worth. With every moment spent in Etna's society; his admiration- for her character increased. Therefore it was with- feeling of extreme reluctance that he resigned her aglhst 3     34        ETNA VANDEMR. to the tender mercies of Dr. Reynolds, who, as he himself avowed, took great pleasure in " tantalizing the young gentlemen who have so little consideration for the claims of others." "Thank me for your timely deliverance from this modern Nero," he said, with malicious humor, glancing toward Howard, yet not seeming to observe him. Etna, smiling, answered gaily, "Profoundly impressed with gratitude for your kindly interest, I must say it was misplaced in this instance, inasmuch as I was a willing victim to what you are pleased to call Mr. Lorraine's gallantry. It seemed a delightful immolation to this selfishness of his. I regret that this tender concern of yours did not seek a more deserving object." Etna moved away to take her place in a cotillon. Dr. Reynolds, as he asserted, had certainly not danced for fif- teen years, and it required considerable tact and skill to lead him through the mazes of a modern quadrille. They were separated for the remainder of the evening, each mingling with the throng, apparently unheeding the other's presence. Upon the great sea of fashion how many are like bubbles that sport in the sunshine of to-day, then sink to nothingness! They are lives of triumph to some; yet it is not the glorious triumph of strength, but the result of weakness, and will not make one's life happier or better in the end. We must not omit to mention Mrs. Hastings. She must have been strangely beautiful once, and the flu'sh has deep- ened upon her face into an expression of hallowed repose, that tells how rarely sweet is the contentment of her heart. There was a gleam of joy on her features, as she greeted a childhood friend, Nellie Weston's mother. "This reminds me of your bridal, Marion, and the reception at Wilton," said the lady; "and you cannot tell how strangely, all the evening, I have missed Grace. 1 cannot realize all the years that have passed and the changes that have come and gone since then!"   ETNA 'VANDEMR.        35 There Was a shade upon the fair high brow, telling more eloquently than words that hers was not the only life upon which a grave, made long ago in Wilton churchyard, was then casting- its shadow. "Etna is very like, and yet very unlike hers" said Mrs. Weston. "She is not so handsome, and yet hers is a pleas- ing face, to one who will study the various expressions which furnish a key to her strange nature." "Yes!" said Mrs. Hastings, , you speak truly,-very like and very unlike! She unites the most prominent characteristics of both. She possesses her mother's depth and devotion, allied inharmoniously with an element of unbending pride (peculiarly a characteristic of her own), and the moody, taciturn manner of her father. Etna has been a good child," said she fondly, "' and I verily be- lieve she would die by slow tortures sooner than be guilty of falsehood or untruth. - Aught that savors of prevarica- tion or dissembling she detests ;-though she will never submit to a fetter of will or inclination, unless it be im- posed in a spirit of love-! I was compelled to study her nature long and earnestly, in order to govern her thoroughly. Mother idolizes 'the child;' azshe calls Etna, who never chafes at her strictures, or lectures moral and religious, as she would at mine or those of Mr. Hastings: there seems to be a strange affinity between them. I do not think she will ever marry. Father has made her a deed of Wil- ton, and it is her intention to reside there with mother and him. I should not wonder if something in her mo- ther's sad history had influenced her decision. I once thought that she and Henry would love each other, until he told me her resolve. Knowing her opinions on the subject, and her firm, indomitable will, he-was aware ap- peal would be useless. I am not certain, however, that ho ever regarded her as other than a kind, dear sister, and I am sure, if he did, he never-told his feelings." Anon, garlands drooped, bright eyes grew languid and weary as stars fading into dawn, and flowers withered in     36        ETNA VANDEMR. the heated atmosphere. The ordeal in the cloak-room had passed, as Nellie Weston overheard Miss Winchester, after having given voice to a formal, measured adieu to Etna, utter congratulations upon the unparalleled suc- cess of the joint debut of herself and Miss Hastings, closing with the assertion, that "she woufd find the atmosphere rather chilling in the Utopia of fashion, and the cold social heart never meted out returns that were not justly due." Etna bowed her head in mute acknowledgment, as she exchanged glances with her friend Nellie. Wouldwe be able at all times to identify our friends, could we see them divested of their garb of sycophancy and untruth? We think, hardly!  The tenor of her compliment was palpable to Etna, upon reflection. She had inaugurated a flirtation with Dr. Hastings, and her regard and kind speeches were but a passport to the esteem of one with whom she possessed sao-mh influence. She did not hesi- tate to sacrifice her own scples to accomplish her purpose. It was an eagle eye ta probed the mask! Etna witness- ed no greater evidence of her wondrous power, than the sight of her adopted brother, standing alone in one of the deserted rooms abstractedly tearing in tiny fragments a camelia that she had worn in the golden waves of her beautiful hair. She had given it to him at parting, her small jewelled hand lingering long in his. With a pang in her heart, Etna saw and knew it all at a glance, and the knowledge grieved her sorely, for she seemed to hear the death-dirge of a young life sacrificed to a woman's caprice!  Howard Lorraine lingered with more last kindly words,-not the meaningless phraseology of empty badi- nage, but in the proud, firm tones that reveal truth of heart and purpose. He told her that he was going to Paducah, to be absent some four or five days, and asked the privilege of calling on New Year's evening. He also made known his intention of returning to New York early in the fol- lowing month. The business that had detained him in   ETNA VANDEMR.         37 Kentucky having been performed, his presence as junior partner of a large mercantile firm was necessary. He added, more pathetically than was his wont, "I shall miss you sadly, Etna." Her heart formed no words with which to answer him. She stole very softly into Mrs. Elwood's room, and kissed the faded cheek resting wearily against the white pillow, like a withered leaf upon its couch of snow. She smoothed the covering and tucked it more closely about her, turned the gas a shade lower, and proceeded to her own room. This was an office that Etna always assumed for the old lady during her visits to Louisville. Mrs. Elwood could not endure the assistance of the colored maid in the perform- ance of these simple duties. She feared that some man- fiestation of Divine displeasure would have overtaken her had she for a single instant given countenance to an insti- tution which in her estimation was so entirely opposed to every principle of justice and equality,-an equality that she believed would be the basis of a world-wide unity, the establishment of a universal religion, to which desired aim she conceived this to be a great stumbling-block. She was unlike those misguided philanthropists who believe in dispensing charities throughout the earth, forgetting that the Divine principle should generate in one's own home! Moral sentiments are loud-toned and cost little. She could sympathize with the poor down-trodden creatures afar off, but, as Dr. Hastings tritely observed, "Touch not" was her motto; though she was not so extremely charitable as some of those who would send from their door a poor, needy white slave, who was unable to perform his daily task, and while turning their backs upon'a thousand piteous appeals for aid, would yet sign a subscription list for the eman- cipation of those alike dependent, who are clothed and fed and kindly cared for in sickness and in health. Hers was not an agressive fanaticism, but she did not remember that oftentimes Anti-slavery saints, who cast at their Southern brothers the first stone, were not themselves without sin, in     38        ETNA VANDEMR. their unscrupulous appropriation of the not strictly ortho- dox homily, "The end justifies the means." Something akin to the self-righteous satisfaction of the proud Phar- isee was manifest in the tone with which she thanked God that no such Upas-tree of evil o'ershadowed her northern home, "America's freedom soil." Miss Hastings found a careless pillow that morning: cheeks and brow were flushed with triumph as she fell asleep with her mother's kiss and a sweet smile upon her lips. Etna thought of many things-lived over again the be- wildering hours of that gay scene--saw as in a vague dream the figures so strangely blended with her own life at the very outset; the lone grave in the hushed night silence; the fair face wreathed in hollow, heartless smiles; and, last of all, the manly form of him who was the ( Ocean to the river of her thoughts!" Alas! within the palatial home of the Winchesters a fair head tossed wearily its weight of golden hair unbound. The cold white hands were clasped, and Mabel writhed from side to side as though some vulture were rending her vitals. It was a stralnge vision that haunted her. The beautiful and young! what had she to do with these gloomy terrors? "A cold mound in the winter snow; A colder heat t at rcst below." The still white face was beside her, with the gush of bright crimson that flowed from the ashen lips, quivering, trembling with their last bitter words: "' Mabel Winches- ter, it may seem a light thing to you to have crushed and trampled down as mine has been beneath your careless feet, a heart that loved you as you will never be loved again, Mabel, for you were its first, last hope! Yet a time will come when the events of this day will have grown to be a curse whose enormity will bid you deplore the day and hour when you were born, for you will love when your love will be utterly hopeless as mine is now! Even   ETNA VANDEMR.         39' if it bring not speedy death, life will be a far heavier weight to bear without hope! It may come sooner than you think! It may not come for long, until the grass has blossomed and years grown grey with frosts, and melted with the winter snows upon my grave; but rest assured it will come; and then you will think of me, and pity as you have scorned my poor love to-day. Then my rest will be quieter because of the storm-footed discipine that walks the waste of yours. Even now there are no harsh thoughts in my heart toward you, only a warning and a memory. Good bye forever! Would these words ever cease their ringing in. her heart? And would that phantom never leave her side? .What a long and thorny way is the hard one of the transgressor! Could Dr. Hastings have seen her then in the wild abandonment of her remorsb, surely he would have shrunk abashed at the contrast to the bright vision, the impersonation of youth and purity, mirrored in the depths of his soul! Ah! man wxitl all his vaunted wisdom may not fathom all the hidden places in woman's heart! Late hours and bright eyes are pernicious in their effects. There is another votary unresting in a splendid suite of rooms at the Gait House. He seems reflective and wake- fil, and the burden of his thoughts, as sleep comes at last with morning sunbeams to his pillow, is revealed in the unspoken word, Etna!     CHAPTER III. "ORRAINE'S EVENING VISIT-TIIE DEAD MOTIERI'S LETTER-THE PAITING-ETNA'S ILLNESS. THE January fire gleamed on the marble hearth; the bright coal glowed and crackled cheerily, casting a mel- low sunset radiance upon the impanelled walls of the library, and giving an air of cheerfulness to the room,-- the repository of the lore of many centuries. With a sigh of weariness Etna had early left the drawing-room, and its gay voices that carelessly talked and sang, and sought the library. She was attired in an evening robe of amber glace, wearing an over-dress of black Chantilly lace, fes- tooned with crimson fuschias and heads of golden wheat. The jetty hair was lifted from the pure white brow, flow- ing backward in rippling waves to the mass of ebon curls that were imprisoned within the sparkling tissues of a net of gold; a rosy hue imparted by the cheerful fire over- spread the creamy whiteness of her face, and so much pre- occupied was she in conning Alexander Smith, that she started slightly when the door opened and Nellie Weston entered. "' Oh! I did not mistake in presuming that I should find you here, bookworm that you always were," exclaimed the .young girl gaily, glancing in mock contempt at the well-filled shelves. ," Do you know that, since you have become a lady of fashion, you should discard such foibles! Literary pursuits are entirQly incompatible with your posi- tion, however congenial you may still find them. Woman cannot serve two masters. Was it for this," continued she, taking the volume from Etna's hand, and glancing in- 40   ETNA VANDEMR.         41 differently over the contents, Cwas it for this you forsook the gay party in the parlors, after merely exchanging greetings? Do you, my fair stoic, renounce the fascinations of Miss Hastings' brilliant coterie? The Doctor commissioned me to seek, find, and restore you to your anxious friends. Luckily I succeeded in discov- ering your whereabouts, without the aid of the town crier, who usually lends assistance in arresting the wayward course of straying juveniles." "I am indebted to you," returned Etna, c but I remained sufficiently long to grow weary and dizzy;" and with an almost cynical smile she added, "I am content with sport- ing upon the surface of fashion; I have no wish to fathom the deeps. You are aware it is only excessive draughts that intoxicate, even of the sweetest wines. 'Taste not' is a policy that I have always adopted. I fear the deeps are briny." "Upon my word,' responded Nellie, " that smile and sentiment were worthy Diogenes. This is an unparalleled renunciation! What painful experience, sage Mentor, has entailed these seemingly hasty conclusions and engendered this resolve? Such resolves, my friend, may blossom to perfection in some desert wild of seclusion and solitude, where no iron heel of custom may crush them; but in this Utopia, in this vitiated and burdened atmosphere, they droop, wither and die." "And is this your 'painful experience?" said Etna, reit- erating Nellie's previous query, and gazing fondly into her sweet eyes,-for she loved the young girl, though she had never told her so. "If so, I must decline journeying to the halfway place, when even at the first season's close you tarry to be regaled with such pernicious homilies as this." c"No, no!" laughed Nellie, "I would only intimate that a life of fashion is not one of thought or research, but sim- ply of amusement. We smile and smile, you know, but never weep.  We sleep and dream beautiful dreams ol what we might be; but so fettered are we, that we cannot     42         ETNA VANDEMR. summon the courage to make our lives after the pattern of our dreams. There must be dreary voids unfilled; but we only plunge deeper to still the voice of higher aims. My resolves, however, were not uprooted or doomed to perish in anunfriendly soil. I made none such! It becomes the oracle of schoolgirls, and the refractory terror of Madam B   , to form such resolutions! But," rejoined she uickly], hearing the door-bell ring, "come to the parlor 4gain; the company is disposed of comfortably and satisfactorily to themselves, I presume, and I am left with no one to entertain me." "Indeed.!" ejaculated Etna, inquiringly; ( where is Mr. Martin?" " Oh! he is busy balancing accounts with Mr. Lorraine, from whom he invariably makes his purchases when North! He leaves to-morrow, so I learned from father, and Ellis is making out a list of new orders to be filled, as well as liquidating the old. Business is an unconscionable bug- bear," continued Nellie, poutingly, "and martyrizes us feminines whose husbands or sweethearts concoct such pre- texts for the most untoward delinquencies! But Ellis promised to come late, and he never tells fibs." Where- upon, hearing his voice in the hall, she tripped lightly to meet him. Etna mused: she thought Nellie should not speak light- ly of life, since its earliest lessons to her had been so sweet a trust. She stood in the library door awaiting the servant's return from answering a second ring. "Mr. Lorraine to see Miss Vandemir." "Show him here, Philip ;" and with expectancy in her heart and eyes, she stood waiting, book in hand, for his greeting. He soon made his appearance, and with the frank cor- diality of a child, Etna gave him her hand. "You will observe," said she, " that I have desired to convert your formal call into a social, friendly visit; and since it must be the last with which I am favored in months,   ETNA VANDEMR.         43 years perhaps, I confess myself so selfish as to wish for the exclusive appropriation of the last social hours of your sojourn in our city. Miss Hastings has her reception this evening. I preferred to have you come here." So saying, she held up a small enamelled watch to remind him of his tardiness. "Thank you," said he.  I was just wondering if I had not joined that list, and consequently would come under the ban of those included in your abhorred category of promise-breakers." "Furnish me your excuse," said Etna. CIf it is not sufficient, I will resign you to the tender mercies of your own accusing conscience!" "I regret to be unable to plead a better one than the hackneyed extenuation that business pleads. You remem- ber I have been absent several days, and must leave for New York in the morning at six o'clock. My affairs must necessarily be adjusted this evening. I regret this, since it has deprived me of the privilege of demonstrating to you that I too a stickler for the binding force of all social engagements,-more especially when one's heart and will render their fulfilment pleasurable." His words were spoken with emphasis, and Etna's eye- lids dropped beneath his admiring glance. With true gentlemanly tact, he sought to dissipateher embarrassment by remarking the book she held in her hand. "And are you so very fond of sketches of fancy, wild, wierd, and overwrought, while reality has exhibited to you only a few of the sunniest scenes of childhood and youth, beautiful and fair, garnished with the springtime garlands of poesy and sentiment? I should scarcely expect to find this book in your hands!" C You are complimenting my heart, at the expense of my mind," answered Etna. c One of my proudest boasts is, that I manage to maintain an equilibrium between the two! It is true, as you say, I have gazed with rapture upon the beautiful pictures in the gallery of childhood,     "        ETNA VANDEMR. and have noticed the lurking shadows that sometimes over- spread the sunniest of them all. I have analyzed the ma- terial of which everyday existence is composed. This dream-life is very, very beautiful, but I prefer a life of action." He gazed at her in wonder. cc Is this the result of ob- servation, or experience?" said he. Etna spoke again, in a voice of low pathos. c; I am an orphan, Mr. Lorraine,--not without 'friends or home,' as the song goes, but an orphan still! I ceased both to hope or dream; long before I was old enough to compre- hend my strange, wayward destiny! You remember that iomance, radiant and brief, of Byron's youth, that colored the years of his future,-and his hopeless love, that made him a wanderer in many lands, and left him trusting at last in no man's virtue or truth,-cherishing the faded garland of memory that once was hope, when it wreathed the fair face of 'her who was his destiny'? I too have dreamed of a dear lovely face, so beautiful and yet so sad, that made the joy of my childhood; but it was early locked in a frozen sleep, and lost to me forever! "I have only known enough of my mother's history to make me wish to know more. I have looked upon the world with vague suspicion, for I have been oppressed with an undefined perception of a wrong done to her! I have studied it well. This first grief of mine has taught me discrimination, thus rendering my brief experience in fashionable life very unsatisfactory. I must confess I find more genuine pleasure in meditation and reading, than in being amused and entertained as I should be, were I to plunge into the excesses of this season's gaiety. I have been reading in Byron, and have been musing concerning him. I can almost weep tears of sorrow that his life was not a better and happier one!" "You are an enthusiast, I observe," answered he, re- covered from a fit of musing into which her first words, relative to her mother's destiny, had plunged him. He   ETNA VANDEMR.         45 still maintained his listening attitude, and she proceeded with warmth. "I have never quite forgiven Trelawney, for, dispelling so ingloriously my beautiful illusions of Byron! We may love to watch the eagle in its eyrie, or follow its wide- spread circuit of land and sky,-grow dizzy and breath- less with observing heights compassed fearlessly, or rapid descents made, and enjoy beyond power of expression his diversified aerial sports, reflecting gorgeous rays of morning light, or evening's sunset glory, from his beauti- ful Wings; but we would only pity and deplore, did we behold him caged, his beautiful golden pinions beating wearily against the bars of a prison! I cannot bear to remember, when following in fancy the world-wide range of Byron's genius, that his dauntless spirit was shackled by a gross materialism. Trelawney has exhibited phases most niggardly and contemptible in the poet's daily life. What a contrast to that of Shelley! We can but revere the glorious spirit, whose existence, so beautiful and blameless, was in itself the refined essence of poetry!" "Byron's life certainly suffered much by comparison with the unsullied life of Shelley. Strange, was it not, the evi- dent congeniality and apparent sympathy between the al- most fiend and the almost saint?" "( Notwithstanding this," Etna said, " there was a broad basis upon which these sublimated spirits, earth-free, met and communed. It was the blended incense from each high soul that formed the golden link between these two, whose material lives were so utterly at variance! The world, guiltless of refined perceptions, did not recognize the bond, and consequently assumed its non-existence." "I do not regard Byron as having been-a bad man' at heart," said Mr. Lorraine. "His misguided youth, th- gether with the hopeless love of which you have spoken, and which Irving has so tritely embodied with ' The Dream,' in recounting his brief visits to Annesley Hall and Newstead, made his life objectless and aimless. He was     "        ETNA VANDEMR. reckless from established habits of indulgence. He had always given ear to the insidious voice of temptation in early days. Its siren tones were all-powerful and reist- less in their magic sway, in his after life. Napoleon was accustomed to regard those as his greatest victories that cost most. Did Byron achieve a triumph single-handed, over the many-visaged, smiling tempter, he was entitled to more credit for the victory than Shelley, whom primi- tive abstinence rendered impervious to the assaults of the enemy. His nature had become etherealized; Byron's life was one protracted struggle with temptation,-a war of the many with the redeeming unit, his genius: hence I pity more than censure him. Yet the remembrance of this is a wholesome check upon my enthusiasm! When I reflect upon the magnitude of his capacity, the vast range of his ideas, and trace the sufferings of the great soul so impa- tient of its chains, and feel the heart-throbs in the record he has left, I think with you, it were a pity the Eagle should have been fettered as was he! He was certainly not virtuous, in an abstract sense, for virtue implies strength, and he was a very child in his imbecility, always power- less witlin the mighty grasp of the besetting fiends! Yet how few would have been stronger! Man is rarely just; but God is merciful. Though cognizant of the height from which men sometimes fall, yet He weighs with the sin the temptation, and His judgment is infallible! Many whose censures are loud-toned, would have sunk lower than Byron fell. Only they, men or women, can boast, who have withstood, and who have walked through tle fiery furnace of temptation unscathed! I am no infidel regarding the existence of virtue evbn in the abstract. I hold that in most instances it is an arrogated assumption, this vaunted strength that is untried!" Etna was profoundly pondering his words, and he re- sumed. "There is much that may be offered in extenuation of Byron's waywardness. Consider the early influences to   ETNA VANDEMR.         47 which he was subjected. It is a source of deep regret, that his aims and purposes were not more distinctly marked out for him, and his genius consecrated by a more hallowed appropriation of his talents. He wrote from impulse; his muse was too often the channel for an overcharged life and heart. He regretted, in after years, that he did noq more effectually restrain the torrent of capricious senti- ment, and leave a record of the workings of his glorious mind, rather than his heart, to posterity." "He'is truly the poet of the heart," answered Etna, "and essentially removed from the illustrious contemporary, whose last bright days of life, with his own, were spent by the glorious Mediterranean,--the waves 'that he so loved enwrapping him at last in the liquid mantle that was his shroud! Shelley's purpose was world-wide; Byron's, exclusive; and many feel and sympathize with Byron, but few there are who can climb the dizzy heights with Shelley, and wander, self-poised, through the fanciful world that he by his magic thought has created!" "Would you intimate," interrupted Mr. Lorraine, c that Shelley is devoid of feeling?" "By no means," returned Etna; "but this attribute with him is the very refined essence of feeling, permeated, as it were, and interwoven with the fibres of his own deli- cate mind; and we must undergo a transmutation, and be transported to another realm, where he by the force of his inspiration would lead us, and we must sever the strong fetters that gird the wings of thoug'ht ere we can follow him! Shelley's heroes speak to tis with masterly eloquence, each possessing an ideality of its own; while many of Byron's possess no individuality, and are wholly the me- diums of his own overburdened mind! Many have reviled and maligned. Shelley, who could neither understand nor appreciate him. His was a grand mission. He sought to exalt the lives of those who were below him in station and intellect. The innovations that he vainly endeavored to introduce into society, inciting a desire for freedom     48         ETNA VA NDEMR. from the narrow restrictions and conventional shackles of worldliness, and the influence of a moneyed aristocracy, re- cognizing only the superior claims of intellectual worth and mental cultivation, were demonstrated in his own life! He practised, himself, only what he sought to impress upon others. These were the opinions the fearless advocacy of which called down upon his defenceless head the maledic- tions of dignitaries whose delegated superiority and gouty equanimity he disturbed." ", Shelley was persecuted of the critics, but not as was Keats, who, by the way, is always associated in my mind with Shelley." "Poor Keats! there is a sigh and a pang in my heart when I remember him, and I oft behold him    upon a throne- "' Built beyond mortal thought, Far in the uuapparent.' Very, very soon he left the weak haunts of men. The hands are listless and the -mighty heart pulseless! What could be more beautiful than this tribute of an affectionate contemporary! "' He has outsoarcd the shadow of our night; Envv and calumny, and hate and pain, And' that unrest which men miscall delight, Can touch him not nor torture him again. From the contagion of the world's slow stain He is secure, and now can never know A heart grown cold, a Jlcad grown grey in vain; Nor, when the spirit's self has ceased to burn, With sparkless ashes load an unlamented urn!' "( Dear, noble Keats! 'To live in hearts we leave be- hind, is not to die!' A sweet, treasured memory of him is embalmed with the beautiful in every life! and the name of Keats will live, when oblivious waves shall have oblite- rated those of Gifford, Jeffrey, and others of his niggardly persecutors. For a deep and holy sympathy has written it, not in water,' but upon hearts that love him."   ETI'A VANDEMR.        49 c"I saw his grave in the lonely and weedy graveyard at Rome," observed Howard musingly.  "The soft smiling sky bent down in tenderness. The whisper of balmy winds is the only sound that disturbs the stillness. The sigh of twilight breezes through swaying cypress trees seems chanting a dirge for his brief life and early death! Nature, kinder than her creature man, thuq keeps a peace- ful vigil around his tomb. Critics were unjust to him. It has been said of them that they lacked soul to feel the exquisite sentiment and sweet imagery of his poetry. His blind attachment to an-obsolete school of poetry, his po- litical opinions, and the influences of his humble birth, were grounds for the unprovoked assaults of those who crushed him. Byron; too, denounced him; his own lessons in the-vorld's bitterness had not taught him that meet lesson, charity.  "' There are those who would not welcome an angel with ruffled wings,' says Tupper; and it is true, that while Keats was lacking in some things, yet he was original, almost beyond any poet that ever lived. He was wed to things of light from infancy.' His genius, to my mind, manifests itself most strikingly in that unparalleled poem, 'The Eve of St. Agnes,' the surpassing beauty of which will be to the world 'a joy forever.'" C  It has been said of Shelley," remarked Etna, "thlat he lived an age beyond his time. This might also be truth- fully asserted of John Keats. Had America been his birthplace, his varied, impassioned sketches would have furnished him a passport to public favor and immediate distinction. His style is most acceptable to modern read- ers. Thus have Shelley and Keats received from posterity the full meed of approbation that was denied to then while living! "Leaving the old world's poets, what think you of our own? Do you like our Bryant?  Many have censured him, asserting that his productions are unwarmed by tile genial glow of feeling, and have likened the gleam of his 4     50        ETNA VANDEMR. fiery genius to moonbeams on marble, as passionless and as cold." "That is unjust," answered Howard. "It is true that his greater poems, 'Thc Ages,' 'Thanatopsis,' and a 'Hymn to Death,' are characterized by a force that is start- ling to weak minds, incapable of feeling the ardent glow of inspiration that throbs through them! But where can we trace more exquisite feeling than in those touching strains, as 'The May sun sheds an amber light,' and the sweet rill-like gushing forth of his autumn song of the ' Melancholy Days,' embodying the sigh for her who in her youthful beauty died'? ", There are thousands who accord to Bryant the tribute of admiring homage; but I, that of mind and heart. Iis vast comprehension and unparalleled delineations command my reverence, and incite a holier feeling! I have listened to the martial tread of trooped thoughts as they swept onward, impatient of the check that his restraining, guid- ing hand has placed upon them, and felt that while I pitied Byron, admired Shelley, and sympathized with Keats, I involuntarily loved Bryant! I never think of him, or read his words breathed through the sweet voice of poesy, 'in a prayer of repentance, a song of thanksgiving,' but with a thrill of intense feeling." Few countries, even of those whose greatness has been acknowledged for centuries, can boast such names as those written in characters of living light upon thehearts of this nation." "It is true. We are a proud nation,-proud of intel- lectual, national, and State supremacy. This latter I pre- sume you will claim in behalf of Kentucky, your adopted home?" "Most assuredly," answered Etna, jestingly; c I con- sider Kentucky the garden spot of all creation! notwith- standing Charles Mackay's assertions to her depreciation and detriment!" "It is most remarkable," continued Howard, "that    I8.    ETNA     VANDEMr.         51 British writers are so loth to award justice to Americans, whom they seem to regard. as refractory children, notwith- standing the hospitality they have ever met here. Dick- ens, Mackay and others were borne upon the shoulders of our people from ocean to ocean, from C Maine to the Rio Grande,' wherever they chose to tarry; and yet' they en- gag ed themselves meanwhile in the grateful and amusing pastime of collecting material, the basis of works abound- ing in false statements and unjust sneers, concerning a sys- tem of government obnoxious to them because superior to their own! There are a few honorable exceptions, but, for the most part, English visitants to this land betray a potty spirit of arrogance. We have been forbearing, beholding in disdain their envious shafts fall short of the mark, or harmlessly rebound,-never condescending to retaliate, save in a few instances." "Charles Mackay did not seem   to remember that the claims of hospitality should be esteemed   supe- rior to the petty annoyances that so. disturbed  his equanimity.  In his sweeping strictures of Louisville, her institutions, etc., he had evidently forgotten those who fostered and ministered unto the stranger poet, during his sojourn in our mi'dst." - "One might imagine from your words that you were actuated by an animosity equal to that which I ascribe to the writer of6 English Items,' " said Howard mischievously; "No! very far from it," returned she. "On the contrary, I enterta in many pleasing reminiscenc-es of his visit here in company with the accomplished  Belle Britton,' alias Colonel Fuller. They were guests of my adopted father, who is a countryman of Mr. Mackay.  I also heard his lecture; it was very beautiful, I assure you! Mr. Mackay is most delightful in coversation, and entirely willing to concede the merits of our poets, and grant all honor to whom honor is due.  He agreed with me perfectly in my estimate of modern geniuses, but expressed a regret that our poets published so rapidly. How often are we con- ;    *       i    i  ,     '     52        ETNA VANDEMR scions, in our after perusal of some hasty publication, of a desire to seize a pen and complete sentences or paragraphs, or obliterate ideas that are unfitted to their position! None but ripened fruit should be offered to the public. In reading the works of some of our leading writers, we are profoundly impressed with their completeness. The har- vests of Longfellow's genius stand upon the field fully matured before they are preemtedffor the public sickle. America may well be proud of him; he is worthy of all the honor bestowed upon him. His poetry is unsurpassed, -his traditions and beautiful Indian legends, primitive frontier pictures, and garlands from foreign climes. "Longfellow possesses more originality than any poet of our land, save Poe. It is a source of bitter regret to the worshippers of genius, the aimless lives that many poets lead! The fiery pulse within seems to gradually weaken their tenure upon the practical. The God-given talent is often unappropriated, and the enervation resulting from excessive indulgence becomes the bane of their lives! Many of our poets have met a sadder death than Poe; though none were like him. His existence seemed to flow onward in a strange, wayward channel, fashioned !by a ghostly hand; no kindly sympathetic being to love, since that bright form rested 'in her tomb by the sounding sea.' Alone, he walked earth's wilderness,-haunted by the spirit of darkness, that, like the wing of doom, hovered above his pathway. Rest thee, Poe! and may the sweet eyes that did not ' leave thee as thy hopes,' ever, with no earth gloaming to veil their undying splendor, beam now with unuttered love, as patient eyes have done that watched thy tranquil grave!" She spoke these last words almost unconscious of How- ard's presence, so profoundly was she absorbed and in- terested in her subject! Her face glowed with the intensity of her feelings, making her almost beauti- fil! Iie drew near and took her hand. She gently withdrew it, without seeming to observe the action. Look-   ' V ETNA VANDEMR.        53 ing steadily in her face, he asked her plans for the coming summer. ", We have decided to go East byway of Wilton, where I presume I shall take up my abode in the autumn." "I hope I shall see you frequently while there, may I not?" said he. There was a timidity in the tones in which the last part of the sentence was uttered. She' felt their significance, and sought to avoid giving a direct permis- sion. "That is far, very far in the future, Mr. Lorraine. I count only the day that is present, as my own. 'Suffiient unto the day-is the evil thereof!'" "Thank you," said he; 6I have remained much longer than I intended; but I feel that you dare not chide me, because I had not the power to break earlier the mystic chain!" "You are presuming upon my magnanimity," said she, smiling and blushing at his compliment. Will you come to the parlor and dispense your adieus?" i    c"Thank you; I should be most happy to commission you with my adieus to Mrs. Hastings and her daughter. I my- self saw the Doctor this afternoon." She thought he would speak of his cousin, but he did not. "It would be cruel, too, to subject me to such an ordeal," added he: " it would dispel the pleasing and beneficial effects of our two-hours' converse." He opened the library door for her to pass out, while she; preceding him to the hall, stood leaning against a column in the grand arcade, the shaded light falling about her queenly form in strange witching beauty. She stood watching him as he put on his overcoat and otter collar. (It was bitterly cold without.) His costume was ever faultless, and his grand form looked more imposing still, as he too stood there in the tinted radiance, listening for a moment to the bewildering strains of music blending with the gay voices, softened by the space between into a -dreamy hum! He drew near and took Etna's hand. C"Shall we     54        ETNA VANDEMR. not soon meet again? and would it give you pleasure that we did?" said he, looking down with the same earnest look into her eyes. As before, she was conscious of an oppressive reticence when she should have spoken. She answered at length: "I am always pleased and happy to see my friends, Mr. Lorraine."' He was evidently unequal to the task of concealing his disappointment at her answer, for he did not speak again, but bowed more coldly than was his wont, and went forth -the strong man-truthful of purpose-strong of mind, but, alas! weak of heart!-went forth into the shadow of the night, into the blinding storm. Etna, turning low the gas in the library, proceeded im- mediately to her own apartment,-pausing by the way to perform her customary service for Mrs. Elwood. The old lady was quietly asleep, as she usually was long before this time. Etna stooped to kiss her cheek. She moved and murmured incoherently: "Ah! yes! Harry, darling boy! I knew you were innocent!"   She was silent again, and Etna, wondering, went to her own room. Throwing herself in a large toilet-chair, she opened the book she had held in her hand during the entire evening, and read, whilst Julia, as usual in smiling attendance, un- bound her hair. "We twain have met like ships upon a sea, To hold one hour's converse, so short, so sweet, And then to speed away through mist and foam, to meet no more!" To part with him forever? Ah no! she dared not think of this! As the widespread universe lay stilly sparkling in the sun-rays that knew one source, so his presence gild- ed and brightened in fancy all the years of her future! Dismissing Julia, she arose and shook her curls loose from their imprisonment, and taking out her dainty watch, she uttered an exclamation at the lateness of the hour, then proceeded to fold and put away the discarded articles   ETNA VANDEMR. R  worn during the evening. Etna, under the careful train- ing of her aunt, had become the soul of neatness; notwith- standing her predilection for literature, she busied herself in restoring all things to their appointed places. Placing her little watch, so treasured because it was her par mo- ther's gift, into a receptacle of Magenta velvet, of gothic architecture, and tissued with gold cord and tassels, she reseated herself before the cheerful fire, listening dreamily to the snowflakes tapping at the window, and the rumb- ling sound of carriage wheels as they departed with their lovely burdens, accompanied by their cavaliers,-each chasing, doubtless, ' his favorite phantom." Whilst she sat musing thus, the door opened softly and Mrs. tastings t'entered. "; Come, Auntie, and sit with me for awhile; I am rest- less, and do not feel as though I should ever sleep again! So saying, she wheeled a chair in front of the fire, and seated herself upon an ottoman at her aunt's feet!"I presumed you had retired long since," continued she. "No, Etna," said Mrs. Hastings, with a slight shadow darkening her features; "I could not do so and leave Mellie below. I wish you would seek to influence her more, my child; she is growing frivolous, I fear. Four evenings in one week seems the extremity of excess. Don't you think so?" "It would be to me," answered Etna, thus directly ap- pealed to; "but Mellie is beautiful, you know, and in- tensely admired; it is not such a weariness to her." Mrs. Hastings glanced down into the eyes 6f the young girl, and said smilingly, as she smoothed her beautiful hair, "You are a strange child, Etna; you always were." And after some minutes she added, fondly, ,' I have been thinking of you all day long: to-morrow is your birthday, you know. Have I made you happy, darling, in all these years that my home has been yours? A fervent clasping of the hand she held, and a gush of tears, were the response of the orphan to this interrogatory.     56        ETNA VANDEMR. There was now an abstracted, absent look upon the kindly face that bent above her, and she sat all unconscious that Etna was studying her expression. She had gone out on a heart pilgrimage to a far-off time, where shone the bright faces and sprang the flowers of her girlhood,-- where hand in hand writh a dear friend of that long sunny summer of life she had danced fairy-like by the brook- sides, and sported with the sunbeams that inundated the home of her youth!  Dear old Wilton! there was cling- ing mould upon its columns and arches now. And she dropped a tear for the little grave, "Folded close under the deepening snow," and the long grave by its side! Then came the memory of a bitter estrangement. First a bridal; then long, bitter years'of separation, and leagues of sea and land, that in a great gulf gTew between; at length the crushed heart and broken hopes, whose sad finlte was a sudden death! The little dark-faced child that/had crept so strangely into the hearts of her old parents, and into her own, making the sunshine of her own home brighter by her presence,-,she had blossomed into full and perfect womanhood. Though a child still, she sat at her feet, pleading to hear the story of her own youth, her mother's death! Etna looked up imploringly in her face. At length her aunt spoke in a voice broken by emotion, but of rare sweetness. Years had passed, and she had never yet been enabled to recall that death-scene, and summon the strange memory hidden away in an unfrequented corner of her heart, with perfect calm- ness and self-control. "I should have spoken to you long ago, hMy child, but it was her wish that I should not do so! I presume tiis will explain all, and elucidatemany things thathave doubt- less been mysterious to you."  So saying, she took a letter and a roll of manuscript from her pocket and gave theln to Etna.   She arose and kissed the brow, white and cold as i.   ETNA VANDEMR.         57 marble now. Etna had arisen too, and stood trembling with breathless expectation, in the clasp of her aunt's arm. "I hear Mellie's voice in her own room; I must go to her;" and, with delicate tact, she withdrew. Etna glanced at the superscription, and then, with trem- bling eagerness, broke the seal, darkened and changed from red to brown with time. The storm sobbed wildly without; fierce blasts blew shrilly; large hailstones against the window-panes struck hard: but neither these nor the watchman's shrill cry were heard by the child who waslistening to her dead mother's voice! The hours between the night,. noon, and dawn passed into the eternity of time, and yet she sat listlessly smooth- ing out the crumpled sheets where one sad heart-history had for eight long years burned darker and deeper into the paper upon which it was traced! At length the wild wind's wailing ceased. The bright-eyed stars came out, smiled, and faded slowly into dawn. The darkness died a calm death, before the day looked fairly in from the East, and the sun returned from his pilgrimage to another portion of the compassless space. Etna arose slowly, as one stunned, bewildered, by income prehensible grief, and turned down the flaming gas. She. placed the tear-stained manuscript in the drawer of- an escritoire, and, pressing the letter to her lips, sat down again to read by the first white morning light, from the book which she had thrown aside upon the morning previ- ous. She opened at the passage conned then. It seemed a dim prophecy now. They had met, and she even in that brief time had learned to love; but the bright, bright drea-m was over now! Who would have thought it would all have ended thus? She dressed herself with care; the long sleepless vigil had not dimmed the brightness of her eyes., She brushed and recurled her hair, and, putting on a heavy street-dress, and tying on her bonnet, descended the stairs before any meam-     58        ETNA VANDEMR. ber of the household was astir, and passed into the street. A wild gush of wind swept past her as she unclosed the wide hall-door, and stood trembling a moment in the vesti- bule. The chill struck through her lasting boots, and very soon benumbed her gloved hands; but she walked briskly down the morning street, unconscious of this, be- cause of the tumult that throbbed in her heart. She now fully realized the part that she was to play in the great life-drama of reality, and bitterly too she knew what the struggle would cost her! This and the painful suspicion that had oppressed her during the perusal of her mother's wild, incoherent words, penned so long ago. Ah! there had been a terrible wrong somewhere! It was only a denser mystery now. Whither she strayed she knew not until she found her- self at the depot. She stood for a moment unconsciously watching the different faces before her. Each had its sweet hope written legibly. She could not but wonder if any one of them had endured such a grief as this, falling so crushingly upon her life. She could not imagine such a probability, so careless they all seemed, every one intent upon the accomplishment of a purpose that lay nearest his heart. She did not then know that earth had some such season of bitterness for all who walk its wildernesses. The throng of passengers at length dispersed. From the opposite side of the street she saw them depart for their destined places; some to cherished homes,-perhaps a home their hearts have made. Would she ever have one where her desolate heart would rest? She retraced her steps to the charitable home that had sheltered the destitute orphan since her youth, whose fair walls so oppressed and burdened her now, that she had gone forth into the cold and storm, that her heart might not burst in its burning heaviness. A whirlwind of frozen snow, crushed and hard as grated marble, swept by, almost Llinding her. Her veil was swept from her face and whirled on with winged speed, but its pro- gress was arrested by a gentleman who crossed the street   ETNA VANDEMR.        59 some distance in front of her, and who, bowing, restored the truant square of tissue. He started suddenly and trembled slightly as she thanked him in tones measured and polite. He was evidently on the point of addressing her, when his companion, who had waited for him at the crossing, reminded him that they must be in great haste. Etna, who was now beginning to realize the strange im- prudence of her inopportune recreation, quickened her pace. What would her aunt say? was the query that presented itself to her mind; she would surely censure the imprudence. " I trust he received my message; in that case, he will be awaiting me," she overheard one of the gentlemen say. "Whom?" inquired the other, abstractedly thinking meanwhile of the face that had crossed his path, so like a face that had shone upon years of his weary life,-a face that had smiled with his youth, and with flowers of a far-off autumn had faded long ago. The chords of memory were strangely swept. Smiling at his evident preoccupation, the first speaker reiterated the interrogatory. "Whom! Why, I supposed you were aware that we sought Mr. Lor- raine. It was his intention to leave for New York this morning, but I took the precaution to telegraph him from Nashville, and presume he will be awaiting us." Etna had, by this time, reached Mr. Hastings' gate. She passed into the house, and .going immediately to her room, she found Julia awaiting her. She was soon en- gaged in the delightful employment of thawing her almost frozen limbs by a cheerful, glowing fire. Julia's astonish- ment was boundless. Upon coming early to the room to light a fire, she had found her young mistress missing. The extreme wonder with which she had regarded 'her protracted absence was manifest in the words with which she greeted her. Lord bless you, Miss Etnie, whatever in de wide world conduced you to go forth on such a mornin' as dis? - Why, you look as blue as de ribbon on your bonnet, and shiver     60         ETNA VANDEMR. as if you was dis blessed minit fresh from Greenland, while your fingers look for all de world like icicles!" "I went to walk, Julia,"-with a dignity of manner that decidedly checked her loquacious familiarity, and silenced further interrogations. "Take off iy gaiters, and get me those velvet slippers: my feet must have been very cold; they pain me very much." She put on her slippers, and proceeded to prepare for the early breakfast with the elders, at which neither Mellie nor the Doctor would be present. Julia would have expressed boundless surprise that Etna should have gone forth without her rubbers or heavy boots, but dared not; so with her wont- ed alacrity she busied herself in restoring her young mis- tress to warmth and comfort. Etna carefully removed any traces of previous agitation from her face. She went as usual to Mrs. Elwood's apartment to officiate at her simple toilet. The old lady had become habituated to early rising, and, with her usual force of character, had abolished the system of late hours and late breakfasts in her daughter's home,-in her warm, uncompromising style, voting them deleterious to both health and morals! Mellie and the Doctor, much to her discontent and anxiety, had failed to participate in these primitive meals during the past week; but Etna made it a point not only to appear at breakfast, but to assist Mrs. Elwood in making her pre- parations for the same. Half an hour later she entered with calmness on her face, and her morning smile of greet- ing upon her lips. This was her first struggle, and by the power of her strong will she had achieved a triumph and acquired strength to conceal her suffering from the eyes of others. After the conclusion of the meal, as was her cus. tom since her return from school, and even before this, she had read aloud the morning journal to her uncle. She did so now, with a clear, firm voice and unfaltering lips, as he enjoyed his cherished cigar; yet a greater trial than this awaited her. During the forenoon, Howard Lorraine called, as she was sure he would upon becoming acquainted   ETNA VANDEMR.         61 with the probability of his having remained over another day. She was seized with a spasmodic shivering of heart, and, throwing herself upon a couch in her room, she told Peter to say to him that she was not well, and wished to be excused. He soon returned, however, saying that Mr. Lorraine would detain her but a few moments. S'he arose, and, recovering from the cowardly imbecility that had caused her to shrink from what she knew must be a life- test in this, the first bitter hour of its endurance,--though she would fain have avoided this intrusion, for she did not yet feel sufficiently self-possessed to make known to him the strength of her determination and resolve,--she de- scended to the reception room. He arose to meet her, and despite her slight resistance, took both her cold trembling hands in his, and called her Etna! She with an uncon- trollable impulse bowed her head tremblingly, for only one brief moment, upon the four hands clasped, and then as suddenly snatched her own away, exclaiming in broken tones, "Excuse me, Howard. I am ill, very ill, and am as feeble and whimsical as a little child this morning." There was a cold, stony look upon her face, even while she spoke thus: the frozen glance that accompanied thewords would have denied, while they avowed the inward conflict. He soon insisted upon her returning to her room, and coldly as they parted upon the previous evening, they parted now. The interview had been extremely brief; and likewise very unsatisfactory to her; but she hoped that he might attrib- ute her words to physical agitation and debility; and when she remembered the sad expression his features had worn, one of fixed pain and bitter endurance, when she spoke the decree tha't separated them, in answer to his impassioned appeal, she knew they must have been cruel and cold; and even now while her heart seemed buirting with its vain love, she felt more acute anguish in his suffer- ings than in her own. She feared he would think her conduct equivocal. She had certainly manifested pleasure in his marked attentions, and preference for his society.     62        ETNA VANDEMR. She had never even vaguely thought of the future in con- nection with him, even as a friend or brother, much less as a husband chosen from all the world. As she remark- ed to hiln upon the .occasion of a previous meeting, she had enjoyed the brilht to-day of their friendship too much to cast a wish or even a hopeful glance fortuneward. She never once questioned her strength to renounce, her ability to live on in the great world, even if his face and his love were not of it. Her resolution never to marry had been persistently kept even in fancy. This decision was formed from the careless words spoken by one of her schoolmates, a distant relative, who cast the inuendo merely for the gratification of torturing and tantalizing the girl who had alway kept aloof from companionship neither satisfactory nor beneficial. Her mother's letter had con- firmed her in her resolve,-ill-timed and injudicious though it was, overshadowing some of the brightest years of Etna's life. Evening found her in a high fever, with Dr. Reynolds by her side, alternately petting and abusing her for her shocking imprudence. Mayhap the kind-hearted old Doc- tor divined the true cause of her utter prostration, and knew that "some strong trial had weighed down his little girl," as he called her. He was rather hasty in his conclusions, perhaps, but they injured no one, .for he kept them to himself. He had anticipated this when he met Lorraine in the morning, and knew that all was not right with him, from his gloomy, stern look. He might have been dreaming at the Antipodes, thought the Doctor, so entirely absent was he, mind and body, when I acqosted him. "I shall have you a guardian appointed, my fair damsel, if you persist in this obstinate determination to terminate your existence. Were you aware that our statutes contained a law to punish suicides? You shall not be permitted to avail yourself of its immunities if you make another such attempt to inflict upon your friends the painful necessity of burying you, this villainous weather,"   ETNA VANDEMR.        63 said he, in apparent glee, rubbing his hands. She won- dered how he became aware of her escapade from dream- land at so early an hour; her thoughts never reverting to Julia, whom she restrained so unceremoniously in her gar- rulous comments, and who, upon seeing the carriage of Dr. Reynolds at the door, had flown down the staircase with almost birdlike speed, to acquaint him with the facts; also adding that Mr. Howard Lorraine had called during the day, and Miss Etna liad been " wuss eber sence." He could not avoid the sentiment of pity toward the proud girl who was so gentle and patient, so uncomplaining. He did not know that the wild agony at her heart was such that the tortures of the inquisition could scarcely have moved her to feeling or expression. He felt that all at- tempts to cheer her were very weak when he spoke what should have aroused her, novice as she was, and doubtless intoxicated by her foretaste of gaiety. ,( Come, my girl, Alice and I have decided to give you a party,-not a grand affair, by any means, but pleasant and social. You know her good brother will not admit of cards or dancing ; and should the young people, your- self and I, for instance, wishing to indulge in such inno- cent sports, dare to assert our free agency and follow our inclinations, it would be to the intense horror and disap- proval of the immense congregation of exclusive breth- ren and sisters with which she is united." "Thank you," said Etna, closing her eyes heavily. c"It is true,"' remarked Mrs. Hastings, " they are some- what exclusive,-Mr. H.'s circle, I mean,--so much so, perhaps, as to' deserve the epithets of ' clannish,' selfish,' applied to them by members of other congregations. But if others have voluntarily withdrawn, they should not imagine themselves repelled. Theirs is a most charming society, more elevated and refined, perhaps, than any in the city; and they, are so beautifully bound, together by the chords of brotherly love, so actuated and influenced by Christian charity, that many, even who revile, cannot bat     "        ETNA VANDEMR. exclaim, 'Behold how they love one another!' And many have said this, and more, when they have seen the falter- ing feet of a stricken member tenderly sustained, his weak- ness strengthened, and adverse winds gently tempered to the sufferer, by kind brotherly ministrations. They care for their poor in a munificent and bounteous manner, and dispense charities with a zeal befitting so good a cause, when those of their own household are no. longer wanting. I must say that I admire their system social, if I cannot indorse their peculiar religious views." I have neither time nor inclination to answer your generous, charitable and kindly argument, Madam. How- ever, I shall take the precaution to repeat the conversation to my wife, who will doubtless consider you a fitting subject for conversion to the faith,' and will employ some of the apostle Paul's eloquent arguments and persuasions to in- duce you to become a member of the flock." "Whilst I should commend and appreciate motives in- fluencing the manifest interest and kindliness of your wife, I should not hesitate to inform her of the fruitlessness with which her efforts would be attended. "'You are aware," continued she, as he drew on his fur gloves preparatory to taking his leave, " that an Episcopalian loves her church, not exclusively, but very dearly; and it is with feelings akin to idolatry that they cling to this glorious temple, clothed in the light of infallibility, since to them it is il- lumined by God's presence." Dr. Reynolds was a man very susceptible to tender influ- ences, and he gazed admiringly upon the animated coun- tenance of her who spoke to him, remembering not the years and the changes that had passed since first he knew that face at Wilton. It was the Marion Elwood of old; and as he glanced down at Etna's still form, and beheld the long jetty lashes resting fringe-like upon the white cheeks, he mmurured, "She should be called Grace." Only this, thought he, would have been wanting to make one again the beauteous twain of bygone hours.     (   ETNA VANDEMR.         65 Mrs. Hastings kindly watched by her bed-side, and though she longed to know what it was that had so crushed the buoyant spirit of her adopted child, with that intuitive delicacy which was one of her most beautiful at- tributes, she forebore to question, or to invite her confi- dence. Mellie carne, beinding tenderly over her, in all her blooming beauty; but Etna only closed her eyes and turned away. She could not bear to look upon the hope- ful face that reminded her so forcibly of what her own life might have been. Dr. Hastings came to know if she would have anything that he could bring her, and to rally her on having summoned another physician, when so emi- nent a worthy as himself, having prior claims to that dis- tinction, from relationship at least, was hers to com- mand. She shut out from her heart the tender yet manly tones, as something that brought back those she most wished, if not to forget, to cease dwelling upon. Mrs. Elwood and Mrs. Hastings alternately kept watch by night and day, notwithstanding her wild petitions to them to leave her. Her uncle, as she was accustomed to style Mr. Hastings, was very sad, at missing Etna's face so long from the board and home fireside; and his kind inquiries concerning her health, and his presents of dainties to tempt her failing appetite, made her feel this. All were very kind and considerate,-even Julia, who often assured her that the front grass-plat and the arborets were so green; and Doctor Reynolds, taking advantage of the occasion, suggested, if she would see the greenest of all inanimate specimens that had come forth from a winter trance, she had but to arise and consult her mirror: by so doing, she would be abundantly gratified. Whereupon Mrs. Elwood laughed so heartily, that Etna smiled in spite of herself,-the first smile of long weeks. The Doctor's spirits were most exuberant, to see the rigid look of suffer- ing break away, like the clouds from a sky of storm, and the white features relax; and he impressed her with the- 5     "        ETNA VANDEMR. necessity for a daily drive, and proposed that the tedium be relieved by a morning walk. Howard too remembered her-she was sure of that. Aye! even as she had remembered him. She had refused to correspond with him, thinking it would make of for- getting a bitterer task to each. But he wrote often to Dr. Hastings, his habitual correspondent, and once to her aunt, concerning " the health of his young friend," thereby evincing not only a tender interest in her, but showing himself superior to the meanness of pique resulting from wounded vanity,-for which she, in justice, could scarcely have censured him very bitterly, since she had persistently refused to give him a reason for rejecting him. Her heart bled anew, as she saw, in reading the short epistle her aunt handed to her, the constrained manner in which he had mentioned her name. There was a calm majesty in his en- durance, that affected her as no expression of bitterness could have done. He did not upbraid, for her feelings were more sacred to him than his own; nor would his pride permit him to question her motives, their justice or caprice. At length the season of illness was past, and Etna- had patiently accepted her discipline,-not in Christian resignation: she did not comprehend the meaning of such influences, embodying faith and strength in time of need; she only walked the hard way, with calm, stoical endurance. She did not then know that our most bitter trials are oftentimes myths, that in season take unto themselves wings ( and fly away, and we spend our mortal strength and love and faith and trust, warring with fancied enemies, and flee when there is no pursuer; while our pride of imagination builds barriers of such stuff as dreams are made, between us and our lifetime hopes,--barriers that will melt away of themselves, if we could only "Learn to labor and to wait." The color. occasionally tinted her cheek, more marble- like than before, and the buoyancy was restored to her   ETNA  VANDEMR.        67 step. She received the friends so long excluded from her presence, and, through the persuasions of Mellie, was now induced to mingle again in society. There were many clamoring voices for her return to their midst. She lent her presence to the Reynolds party, and pleasurably en- joyed the intercourse -with the select set. It was more genial than the hollow mockeries from which she turned appalled, because heart, soul and mind spoke out with unrestrained freedom, tempered with sweet charity. She dreamed, and sometimes wept, and often smiled bitter smiles, hollow as her heart seemed to her now; but hoped never. The routine flowed on in a steady, un- varying course. Spring lived in winter's death; but Etna only bent low her head, in thought, to the stroke of fate. "It was and is not, nor ever will be again. Never so long as the sun with its golden light, the morning and the evening, and the earth with its flowers endure." This was the lesson of her heart, and she had learned it patiently and well.. She was once again the cold, proud woman the world knew her. For she had locked the ten- derness deep in a heart that warmed not to all, but only to the one aloif!'     CHAPTER      IV. THE LADIES' WALK--MYSTERIOUS ENCOUNTER WITH A STRANGER -- OLD MEMORIES. IT was one of those rare davs premonishing the advance of spring. Sunlight, bright and beauteous as that which fell smilingly in golden waves upon balm-br'eathing Eden bowers, lay sleeping upon tall roofs and distant hill-suim- mits.  Golden rods slanted along ranges of suburban common, wreathing fantastically in a rosy glow the trooped shadows tinted there. Winged winds advancing with a shrill blast like the huntsman's signal, then retreating with a low wailing sob, as though the dethroned king of snow felt more of sorrow than anger that his throne and sceptre were among the things that were. Lean, lank trees groan- ed and trembled before the penetrating breezes that strayed through them, as though but just awakened to a sense of their own helpless nudity. Salmon-hued clouds, inter- spersed with fleecy drifts of white, floated beneath the bright blue disk: no summer sky was ever more beauteous and fair.  Iris bows spanned with prismatic arches the sweet March heaven. Winter birds sang their spring- time orison of thanksgiving. Care was smoothed from many clouded brows by the bright fingers of morning, and cold hearts were opened to let the warm sunshine in. The busy multitudes and the gay throng smiled ;-for who is insensible to the genial influence of spring sunbeams?  Many whom years have rendered callous go back to the scenes of youth,-the 68 X              f   ETNA VANDEHR.         69 sweet May-time hopes and essence of early joys,-with the first spring breath. We glide dreamily over the swift channel of other years, to where the days lived in the shining of their hopes,--since how-sadly changed!--and think perchance of heart-treasures locked by a hand that lies under the sod, and sweet -blue eyes that were closed to open in heaven upon this day long years agone. Fairy forms tripped lightly along the sunny side of the pavement, bordered with diamond patches of green sward that were sunny too. Softly through open windows be- neath which they smiled, the bright beams crept, penetrat- ing dark cushioned recesses, and edging their narrow way into conservatories with a warm kiss of greeting to para- sitical flowers blossoming by stealth in the borrowed radi- ance. Blessed, thrice blessed the glorious sunlight! Who has not often recalled Mrs. Hemans' beautiful apostrophe to the sunbeam? "Thou art no lingerer in Monarch's hall: Thou art a wealth and a joy to all." God's golden emissary, heralding as did the sweet watch- ing star of Bethlehem a brighter day, whose sun of glory never goes down, whose glorious shining will make eter- nity bliss! The world never seems the faithless thing upon its sunny days, as when the Heavens bend low to drop pitying tears upon its heart-burnings and frailties! Howard Lorraine had returned to his Northern home. Dr. Hastings had retired to an inland town to prac- tise his profession.  Mabel Winchester was heartily ex- asperated at his departure. She had woven gay meshes about his heart with her soft fair fingers, until she deemed it-all her own. She had failed, however; and now, gay, callous, and unscrupulous, still she kept up her high-hand- ed game, toying with men's hopes as if they were but things of air. She suffered too, perhaps, from remorse, and she sought to inflict reprisals upon others for what she endured. Her face was fairer, if possible, than ever, and     70        ETNA VANDEMTR. its stereotyped smile as bright and as dissembling, but there was often a shadow upon its fairness, and a far- reaching expression of restless, passionate appeal in the beautiful eyes, that told a sad story to the initiate. The bright day's sunset had hung its flaming banners upon the evening's brow, when Etna and Miss Hastings tied on their hats for a walk in the soft amber glory. Through the more unfrequented streets they passed, and the spring- ing grass of vacant spaces, to the smiling common, whose profound quiet was as utterly undisturbed as though it rested in some still desert of a vast wilderness. Etna was silent and preoccupied; Mellie, exuberant and happy. Upon their return they met a gentleman, who vouchsafed to the former an ardent gaze;-in truth his severe scrutiny would have been coarse rudeness, but for the deferential bow that preceded his abrupt pause and interrogatory: "May I inquire your name, Miss?" He was evidently much embarrassed, astounded at his own temerity, for his voice, a full rich one, was slightly tremulous. With all her peculiarities, Etna was exempt from that species of prudery that generates in vanity, and allows no recognition of aught that is antagonistic to prescribed con- ventionalisms. Miss Hastings, perhaps, had it been her whom he addressed, would not have answered him. A strange smile curved the corners of her haughty mouth. "Etna Vandemir." "I presumed as much," said he. "I must now hope for pardon, upon the score of old acquaintanceship: I was a friend of your mother's. I recognized you from your re- semblance to her. Did we not meet near the depot one cold morning in January?" She gave him a quick, penetrating glance, as though he were in some measure identified with that trial, whose first sad morning was so very bitter and cold. She again thanked him for his timely assistance in restoring her veil, studying his face meanwhile; and now she knew that it had long hung in a darksome chamber of her memory,   ETNA VANDEMR.         71 though years so weary, their tissues interwoven at last with a strange, mystic brightness, had passed since, a child stricken by her dead mother's side, she stood when he was kneeling there! Tears sprang to her eyes as she gave him her hand, saying, "Iv am happy to meet you, Mr. Emer- son," and introduced Mellie, who stood apart from them, but who now came forward and greeted him warmly. He bowed politely, though somewhat abstractedly, for his heart had gone back to a bitter time in the past, where other hearts beside the orphan child's had often gone; then to the bitter struggle that preceded it.; and it dragged its weary way now once more, up from the dust where his man- hood's hope had lain-where it lay "now at the feet of Grace Lynton. ,The voice of his soul's bereavement was wild and strong. The dead was scarce more mute to the deep voice of this lifelong memory, than to his ardent ap- peals the living had been. When any sudden shock takes place, caused by a revul- sion of the current of life and the welling up of mem- ory from a hidden fountain in the soul, it is remarkable how much more rapidly a woman's mind will regain its equipoise than man's. Etna waited patiently until Mr. Emerson's thoughts returned from whence they had gone on a slow pilgrimage where the grasses of intervening years had blossomed and faded. Memory's golden sands ebbed dreamily, and he was himself again. He was most earnestly solicited by both ladies to accompany them home to tea, treating him with frank cordiality as an old friend. This he declined, however, with the promise to call in the evening.  Etna stood upon the marble steps where he had left her, looking after his retreating form with a sense of aching desolation in her heart: tears weighed down her white lids, and she leaned her head wearily against one of the Corinthian columns that supported the piazza. Vividly she remembered, as she had seen him kneeling with the veiled lady whom they told her was also a friend. She     72        ETNA VANDEMR. had never seen the lady since, although each year had brought her innumerable packages filled with rich bro- cades, muslins, satins, jewels, and laces of the most expen- sive character, selected with an artistic reference to color- ing and texture. The developments of this day were but other links in the long chain of mystery that fettered her. Even her mother must have been deceived. The Charley Emerson referred to in her diary was a careless, happy, devoted friend; therefore she was almost unable to trace the identity between him and the strong-hearted, deep- voiced man that had asserted his individuality in lieu of the creature of her fancy. Ah! a deep sorrow had been his, for his hair had been prematurely silvered. But the dead had spoken so freely of him as a generous protecting friend! Could she have been mistaken? What right, her passionate thoughts said, had he to kneel by her mother's side and kiss her lifeless hand, as he had done? Ah! she was more than friend to him: the burning record was upon his brow in that brief meeting! Her own love had deciphered it. Well she knew his was a greater grief than friends may feel! It is a mournful fact--"Damon and Pythias left no descendants!" Yet she knew that the sentiment he entertained was pure and noble. None other would have thus wrapped the useless vestments about the'dead form of its object, its thousand glorious pulses still until the resurrection morning. Slowly came the darkness down, and the world lay hushed in a deep night, chilly and starless ; neither had the moon yet in her glorious shining come up from the east. There was a hush and silence in Etna's heart as she vainly sought to solve the enigmatical questions that perplexed her. Julia came to announce tea, and Etna ran quickly to her apartments. Smoothing the waves of her black hair; she decended to the supper-room. There was not the faintest trace of emotion visible upon the smooth, clear brow or calm lips. Her stormy thoughts she had hastily conveyed down into the dark corners of her soul. Unrest   ETNA VANDEMI.        73 was a black-browed, mysterious guest, and it was not fitting that it should sit at meat with cheery faces, or linger on brows that arched above the gateways to sunny hearts. The anticipated visit was one of pleasure to all. Mr. Has- tings and Mr. Emerson were old friends, and Mr. Has- tings had been the playmate of Grace. The gentlemen were soon chatting pleasantly,-not about old times; men rarely retrograde, even inr fancy;. Excelsior is written upon every lineament of their business countenances: but they conversed of politics, discussed the new speaker of the house ;' our facilities for commerce; extension of territory; the distinctive and yet blended interests of North and South,-all were comprehensively and ably canvassed by the representatives of each section, as they claimed to be, with that air of proprietorship which every man delegates to himself who possesses an individual heritage in the best government and the greatest country under the sun,- one by right of birth, the other by voluntary adoption. Mr. Hastings was proudly exempt from the petty spirit of provincialism that will sometimes deter Englishmen from rendering justice and honor to whom they are due. Mr. Emerson congratulated Mrs. Hastings upon her surround- ings, glancing significantly at the young ladies, who now came forward from their divan with the hope that the conversation would become general. Mr. Hastings pro- posed music, and, turning, requested his daughter to favor them. She immediately took her place at the piano, until, at the solicitation of Mr. Emerson, Etna succeeded her. te did not feel the sweet significance of the beautiful air from St. Mark that she sang. His heart gave not back the words, "We may be happy yet." Her- voice was 'full and rich, now swelling gloriously in its vast power and compass, then sinking low and sweet, thrilling like the notes of a cooing dove. He stood near by while she sang, with his arms folded, presenting an attitude of stern sad- ness. Ah! it were best to quell these thoughts were it     74     ETNA VANDEMR. possible; but memory was a powerful tyrant, and he was weak. He rallied at length, previous to his departure informing Mrs. Hastings that he would remain in Louis- ville for some weeks. He had established a house in Nash- ville, a branch of the firm Lidding, Lorraine and Co., and was compelled to vibrate between these points, owing to the residence of his family here. His wife being in deli- cate health, he had brought her out to test the efficacy of the Asterian water, and hoped she would form Mrs. Hastings' acquaintance. She was lonely, he said, he being necessarily absent a great portion of the time, and their social rela- tions being limited, though of a pleasing character, con- fined to the intercourse with the ladies at the hotel. Mrs. Hastings quickly assured him they would call on the morrow, and added (aside to Etna), "6 You had better seek to have Mrs. Reynolds form her acquaintance, and thereby secure to her a chaperone to the circle with which you Are so fascinated." Etna merely bowed without responding, and that somewhat abstractedly. She was thinking how his heart lay prostrate, while the old dream with its tide of memories swept over it! What a hollow mockery was that band! how impotent those fetters! He read what was passing in her mind. He did not cower beneath the scornful, piercing glance she gave. There was a bitter patience in his look which said, ", She will one day know all; she does not understand me now: well may she scorn my seeming hypocrisy! When the knowledge comes to her she will only pity!.  At parting, he bent his head low over her hand with a murmured "6 God blest you," in tones of suffering patience. The rugged shores otjsolation were brightened for a brief instant by this trust and confidence, the offering of another love. The deeps of her soul were hushed in a great calm by the beautiful voice that spoke peace and blessing. And. when she laid her head upon the pillow in the gloomy solitude of midnight, she saw the moon shining sweetly upon the tall grass that wreathed a grave in Wilton   ETNA VANDEMR.        75 churchyard,-shining still as she slept. In dreams she saw a tall, manly form kneeling there in the white still night, as she had seen him kneel by the dead bride,-that smiled from her orange blossoms and pure robes because she would wear them forever! The scene was changed, and she saw him a stern man warring with his life, and some- times smiling even in his desolation. Time passed on: the victory was his. The strife had been hard and long; but now he could pause calmly, and look back upon the vain struggle. Yet there was that in his heart still that made the child scarce less dear than the mother had been. She awoke. Early sunshine flooded the apartment. Julia had neglected to close the blinds. Now she looked out, and welcomed the day more tenderly for the sorrow- ing one who bore part in its weary scenes and labors. Her task was bitter, but she was not alone. The world is filled with scoffers, who, themselves pos- sessing no moral rectitude, cannot conceive of the exist- ence of this sentiment more enduring than life, often outliving by years the hope in which it generated, uncon- quered by death. Recorded instances of unalterable devo- tion, on the part of many, are not sufficient, for these incredulous, unbelieving Judases, who, like "; those juggling fiends " who lightly hold out the word of promise to the ear and break it to the hope, smile a strange, knowing smile, with one-half of their Janus visages, when any at- tempt is made to demonstrate that man's love is not the faithless thing they hold it, notwithstanding the counter- feit is often mistaken for the real. There are those, how- ever, who instantly recognize the stealthy imposition. Over the pathway with which years mark the progress of hu- manity adown the ladder of ages, the bright presence of love has glided ever since the morning stars first sang to- gether at creation's dawn, when time was born; and though man has lost sight of some of the glorious attri- butes that originally constituted an exalted nature, this gift is unimpaired and precious as when first it came fresh     76        ETNA VANDEMR. from the hand of God, upon the day when, knowing Adam's need, He gave him a healpmeet. Love is the pure breath of Heaven, the essence of infinity,-a glory born of light, whose wide compass embraces Earth with one wave of its strong arm,-and yet a strange, sensitive, sentient thing, crouching like a white-winged bird of peace in the heart, never to soar and spread its pinions in a vitiated atmosphere. Not one of its thousand glorious pulses thrills to the touch of gross fingers; it never sings its sweet chants above stagnant pools of sensuality, or alights upon the altar of a callous heart. When excess comes, love takes flight, because there are no answering chords to its siren voice in a nature perverted and debased. It harmonizes the holier attributes, around which it enwraps the glory of its clinging tendrils, and weaves bright tis- sues about its earthly home, the goal of hope and joy  Genius is a creature of soul; intellect, of mind; love, of heart. The first, a glorious God-given boon, whose power and capacity is boundless, since it is creative. In- tellect is merely the mechanism through whose efforts ge- nius is consecrated and appropriated. These faculties blended, ensure success to research and patient effort, the reward of joint labor. They are identified and yet dis- tinctive. They often stand alone.  They are each implements with which to erect a superstructure from the fibres of the brain. They can furnish material but not construct the edifice: coarser hands must do this, if they would not have the foundation of air. It will garnish and etherealize, but not perform its own toilsome labor. The concerted hands of the representatives of soul and mind must work together if they would achieve a glo- rious meed. Yet cold and passionless is the contemplation of these grand palatial records, if they are unhallowed by the genial radiance of love; a time-dial with no indicator, ra yless darkness, inanimate clay, is life without love. Eden were not Paradise without it. It has often made the uni- verse a prismatic garddi of airy palaces of starry splen-   ETNA VANDEMR.         " dor. The fine metal is unalloyed (y sordid elements of selfishness. During seasons of eclipse the sun is cast in earth's shadow, but ihere is no diminution of his glorious radiance in the pall cast over it. Men have gods of gold, of ambition, or often bow at the flimsy shrine where fancy has led them, and when it is too late they recognize the want; but they are often proud and never tell. The great- est of these die unspoken; such griefs are voiceless. Some- times a little memento, treasured through life, has told the story better than they could have done; and with a great pang then we know how they had smiled   above the wreck where their hearts lie buried. Life is only perfect when hallowed by the concentrated elements of soul, mind, and heart,-the glorious trio of parts blended in a beau- tiful whole. These are the loves that redeem the senti- ment, and exalt it far above the censures of that class who are so ready to deny that to others which they themselves do not possess,-capacity. Woman's love is stronger than man's, since its virtue is its strength. This power it is which exalts him far above his fellow-man, and hallows the temple wherein its glory reigns. On the following morning Mrs. Hastings and the young ladies called at the Louisville Hotel, to see Mrs. Emerson, ^ sending their cards to her apartments, as they were instruct- ed to do by her husband. They were soon received by the youthful wife, with kindness and courtesy. She was a frail, delicate creature, whose deprecating, childlike man- ner won for her the admiration and sympathy of her guests. After performing gracefully the requisitions of hostess pro ter., she laid her fair curls upon the sofa pillow with a pained look of weariness. The interval of many years lay between her and her husband. Etna thought, not without a feeling of compunction, what her life might have been if wedded to one with whom she possessed more congeniality of tastes and mental affinity. She was simple and guileless of heart as the merest girl. During the con-     78        ETNA VA NDEMR. rersation Etna gleaned the leading features of her earlier life. Mr. Emerson was a partner in business of Mr. Giddings the elder, who had left the responsibility of caring for his daughter's portion to him. Her parents had died within a month of each other, leaving her to the charge of an only male relative, an uncle, who was at present associated with Mr. Lorraine in business. Her health had been mis- erable all her life, and she was very unhappy until her marriage. Mr. Emerson was the only one who sympathized with her. Her aunt she represented as cold and fashion- able. She felt she would die, she said, in the cold, stern sphere of the childless home, and she asked Mr. Emerson to take her away: .c Her father's friends were dearer than her relatives had been." Etna knew now how strong must have been the pity that had induced him, while clinging to life only through memory, to take the fair, frail, dying creature to his heart. She received him and regarded him with the trust- ing love with which the very weak, those unable to bear the rough blasts of life, cling to their last idoL Yet hers might have been a happier destiny. They were strangely unsuited, as the disquietude of her manner demonstrated. The active mind of Etna grasped these conclusions instan- taneously upon learning all. They were confirmed a few moments later. When Mr. Emerson returned, after salut- ing the ladies cordially, shaking hands with Etna, he threw himself in an easy chair, with a heavy sigh, so world- weary and heart-sore was he. Her fretful, complaining answer to his kind inquiry concerning her headache, and the look of pained endurance that crossed his manly face, told a story of real suffering. Yet she meant no unkind- ness: her selfishness was not the result of narrow-hearted- ness, but of ignorance and want of penetration. Her care and concern were alone for self. She did not think of what she might be to her husband; she only loved him for what he was to her, a protection and friend.   ETNA VANDEMR.         79 How very often, in instances of these unequal unions, do we see weak wives tormenting almost beyond the ex- tremest limit of endurance the unfortunate man whom they call husband. From a life of frivolity and capricious in- dulgence by over-fond parents, they spring suddenly, by some strange freak of love or sympathy, into a position of helpmeet to one, whose mind is so far removed from them, that they even in fancy cannot approximate it. With fever- ish and unseasonable exertions, they command his atten- tions, and would fetter the thoughts that soar beyond, tax the hours of study and meditation with trifling require- ments, and wear at last both love and patience threadbare with morbid repinings or apathetic regrets. Even to men of acute observation, a thousand failures are not sufficient to convince them, that a union of this nature, an attempt to blend elements exactly dissimilar, is utterly vain. Men of cultivated intellect should look higher: such a one will never meet the mental requisitions they are so apt to make in such a relationship, and yet, alas! how rarely find! The wife of Shelley was his embodied bless- ing; he was incomplete without her. If the weaker party possess sufficient penetration to prevent her retarding his mental progress with common- place impediments; if a wife have common sense to rev-, erence and esteem what is beyond her comprehension, and will not insist upon toiling by his side up untold heights which will soon daze her shallow brain, even before she discovers that she has entirely lost identity in the surround- ing mists, which the sun of- genius illumines only for its chosen ones,--then all may be well: but few are possessed of the forethought that should conceal their chagrin, or are capable of wearing even disappointment gracefully. 'T is true, it is a grief that is renewed with the niorn- ing's dawn, nor resteth when the evening shadows fall. The heaviest burden that was ever worn is that of 'an un- equal alliance. Kind social invitations followed from Mrs. Hastings to the     80        ETNA VANDEMR. Emersons. They were very pleasant visits the child-wife made to this sunny house. She soon learned to look to Mrs. Hastings for guidance and counsel. The husband observed with gratification inexpressible, that she was growing more womanly, learning more to wear appropriately the dignity befitting her station. Once during an absence of Mr. Emerson, more prolonged and tedious than usual, at the solicitation of Etna she had remained with them. There was such a perceptible improvement in her health that all were impressed with the efficacy of the change. She mingled in the select circle of Mrs. Hastings, formed the acquaintance of Mrs. Reynolds and others of her set, and soon came to think Louisville the most delightful place in the world. Mr. Emerson returned; and as they were soon to depart, Mrs. Hastings insisted upon his completing the circle. Etna more particularly, experienced very great pleasure in his society, and she almost invariably ignored that of frivolous young men. There was something very fascinating in the interchange of thought and sentiment with the man whose heart-chords had vibrated to her dead mother's touch-ah! still felt in memory. He too loved to listen while she sang songs of other days,-songs that he had heard Grace sing. A chastened sadness was always observable in his manner after these reunions, that was pain- ful to behold. There was now such a visible improvement, both physi- cal and mental, in the condition of Mrs. Emerson, that it was decided they should return home. Etna and Mellie were most cordially solicited to visit them in their sum- mer retreat on the banks of the Hudson. The adieus were painful. The orphan most of all missed the warm hand- clasp, morn and night, and the kind words of her mother's friend. One little circumstance he thought upon long afterward. George Ashby had been more assiduous than usual, visiting daily at the house, and had been seemingly well fortified in his determination to win a smile of favor   ETNA VANDEMTR.        81 from Etna, who was courteously polite, nothing more. Mr. Emerson observed this, and knew also from others of the mutual regard existing between her and Lorraine. That was the union he would have her consummate. He had taken her hand, and gazing down into her face he said, "Etna, never marry a man you do not love. Even though actuated by the kindliest motives, you can exer- cise charity more appropriately and beneficially in another sphere, believe me." , Rest assured, sir, I shall never marry any one," re- turned she coldly and haughtily; and then her features softened, and wore an expression that told him it was more in sorrow than in anger that she had formed this de- termination. How gd an echo repeated therconclusion of her speech: "No! never!" He looked upon her with a troubled sadness. He had seen the same look upon her mother's face. How very like her Etna was. Had the convulsion that was fatal to the one, already swept through the life of the other? The evening previous to the departure of the Emersons, they attended a grand reception at Judge Gladstones,-- a brilliant success. Etna really feared she was growing frivolous, she enjoyed it so much, notwithstanding she had only consented to lend her presence at the solicitations of her friends, who attended. Melhe was right; she could find no pretext for refusing: it seemed so untoward in a young girl "just out," that she found, ere long, she had not courage to incur their inuendoes,-more especially, since her carelessness was attributed by Miss Winchester to her cousin's absence. She came to look, as many had done, to society for diversion, and now pitied more than scorned those to whom frivolous amusements were a neces- sary resort. She had now no time for bitter thought. Each moment was occupied, each hour taxed to the utmost. The season closed with a party at Mr. Weston's. Etna was the gayest of the gay. None would have identified 6     82        ETNA VANDEMR. the cold, proud, stately girl, that refused to submit her limbs to the shackles of society a few months previous. Ah! the change and suffering since! She would not scorn the world: it was in some things bad, but it was also sacred, as the dwelling-place of love.   CHAPTER V. CORNELIA LYNTON -- TWO MARRIAGES ROBERT MEREDITH- TIDINGS OF A LOST LOVED ONE---THE OMELESS DEATH. RETROSPECTION is always sad, and often very pain- ful; there is something strangely fascinating in retracing a vista of long gone years, even though the way be toil- some, through blighting chill shadows since fallen, and mists that have multiplied, where sleeps on unforgotten scenes the sunshine of long ago. Thank Heaven! the suns of our past and future never go down, but are always shining in the memories of one, or dreams of the other. No avalancle of winter snows or tempests of summer storms sweep devastatingly through fairy lands of which the present is the boundary. How easy it is to live in either, since the narrow to-day alone divides them. We remember how an old grandfather, in picturing to our childhood's vision his Maryland home, always spoke of "6 the sunshine on the east gable." It was thus he had seen it last, when one early morning he left it forever, to try his fortunes in Kentucky's wilderness. Thus the old mansion lived in his heart for seventy years, and thus it has lived in our dreams, "the sun shining on the east gable" still, as it shines now upon the old man's grave. Gaslights were gemming the long street, illumining the tall front of a sumptuous mansion, in an upper apartment of  which sat a beautiful woman, listlessly watching the twi- light shadows, creeping in troops of stealthy darkness to her side,-scarce darker than the bitter reflections that 83 y     84        ETNA VANDEMR. overburdened her; but now they glowed and expanded with intense emotion. Her attitude was one of abandon, apparently the utter exhaustion that succeeded some des- perate struggle. She had long sat thus, when, hearing a tap at the door, she arose to meet Mrs. Emington. "How long since you returned, Cornelia?" "Only a few hours since. I came in on the two o'clock train. I went to your room, but you were not in." The lady had never asked Cornelia's object or intention when she had gone on these strange excursions; she had perfect confidence in her adopted child, and never restrained her vagaries, stricken and sorrowing as she had been, when five years before she had taken her to her heart and home. Yet this absence had been more prolonged and extended than usual, and she had feared that Cornelia might not return in season. It was a cherished plan of hers, this marriage. Mrs. Emington was a woman of remarkably strong mind, and when she was bent upon carrying a point, or centered her will and energies upon the accomplish- ment of an object, it was performed. The combined pow- ers of earth could not have deterred or thwarted her, although she was very deliberate, and was always certain of her position, and well fortified and entrenched. She rang for a servant to light the gas, and it was then with surprise and displeasure she saw tears on the stony cheeks. "Come, Cornelia! what are you crying about? you are very childish. I am well aware this marriage is not so dreadful as you think it. There is scarce a lady in the city, who has her own interest at heart, that would not be proud of such an alliance. Believe me, love matches are the only injudicious ones now a days. As to the child, she is far better off; besides, where is your pride? Do you not remember they did not even give to her her rightful name? I have little respect for my bro- ther Francis, that he thus should ignore the existence of his children before he thought her dead. There was no   ETNA VANDEMR.         85 justice or humanity in such a proceeding." Mrs. Em- ington's ideas of justice and humanity were very rigid in theory, but practically she dispensed with them as the smallest moiety of attributes necessary to existence; or at least she performed what was equivalent to this: she ren- dered them subservient to her will. Rising hastily to leave the room, she added, "Come, child, no more silly tears, as though you were being ruthlessly victimized. You always come back miserable from one of these visits; and upon this of all times you should not have gone there.  Your cards and cakes have come. I shall await you in the drawing-room. No more tears-there's a dear girl." The door closed far from gently, for Mrs. Emington was not a gentle woman. Cornelia burst forth in a passionate soliloquy. "These are the last that I shall shed by the grave-side of old hopes. She is right! They do not miss me, or even think of me, whom they regard as wayward'and wilful. Grace is a happy child, and I will leave her there. She is without the influence of what would necessarily be to her profound mystery, or galling memory. She thinks me dead, and those who have supplied a mother's place to her may never undeceive, for the error is also theirs. Would it were not an error, but a truth, or else that he had lived to mak6 life brighter than it has heen for long years! And those long years of cold, cruel neglect-what could they mean? How different it might have been, if that fatal blood had not been spilled! This trailing murderous curse has long followed us. Perhaps it was this that drove him to death by his own hand. And my intended husband!"   She laughed a bitter mocking laugh. ' Should I be delegated to grace his palace on Fifth Avenue did he know this? That it was for me his son's life was taken away? But," she added, her voice sinking low as gentler influences swayed her, " he is a kind, gentlemanly man, as my adopted mother says, and it is a fortunate alliance, in a commercial sense at least,-whether the price I should set upon my     86        ETNA VANDEMR. soul or not, I am unprepared to decide. I am only con- scious of holding that little commodity very cheaply just now. I shall have an excellent model. His former wife, fMrs. Emington says, was a superior woman, and her young son is a promising lad. It will all be very delightful, I have no doubt." She was disturbed by a servant who came to announce tea. She turned to him and said, "Please ask Mrs. Em- ington to excuse me this evening,; I do not wish to come down: I am weary, and shall soon retire." And she did retire, but not to sleep or dream. All through the long watches of this night of gloom she struggled with her woman's heart, yet true and faithful to the former love. One by one she slowly unclasped the tendrils, crushed and broken, from what must now be only the shadowy semblance of a once cherished idol. For, alas! the flowers of trust had withered in her heart; their white petals had been ruthlessly trampled down by feet that in long cruel wanderings' in foreign climes had never once paused to waft back an answer to the wild wail that went after him. The fond tones were- but a dim echo now.  The last raft of the old life was gliding from beneath her, and she was sinking 'neath the cold wild waves of fate, girdled on every hand by the ice-drifts of some hyperborean doom. The clear bells rang the hour of a gleamless dawn. The darkness drew back an inky veil of gloom. Morn came then in charity, but, ah! how mock- ingly bright, when her heart lay like a great pyramidal stone in her bosom! The sun arose upon the colossal weight, and upon battlements of clouds, rose-tinted and glistening, piled up against the morn-lit sky. Day flung out burning shafts of molten gold to scatter mists that even on the sunniest mornings lower like a sheen of quicksilver upon the North and East rivers, and thejroad expanse of bay, whose snow-capped waves swell higher and lash in fury against the dim boundary of horizon that spans the wilderness of waters. Masts glittered in response to the   ETNA VANDEMR.          87 sun's first smile; and church-spires, too, reflected back the brightness. The surging  tide of tumultuous life welled up, ebbed and flowed through Americans' world-renowned thoroughfare, as though one other poor human heart had not gone down from its proud citadel of strength, beneath the overflowing waves of circumstances. When we remember what trifles are often acknowledged to be the turning-points of existence, and calculate probable chances, and reckon on results being different, if we weigh influences and agencies brought to bear, after a careful and dispassionate analysis we will admit that, so far are we from being able to change another's life, we could not even arrest or reverse the impelling current of our own. The hours went by. Cornelia felt that the day of her destiny was closing around her. The summer night came cheerlessly, unbrightened by moon or stars; a thick veil of gloom overspread the heavens.  It was a queenly' form that in the gorgeous radiance wore the rich lace veil and wreath. There were flashing lights and stereotyped con- gratulations. There were beautiful summer flowers, lading the atmosphere with soft waves of dreamy perfume. There were floating liquid strains, the ethereal essence of melody. All to engender forgetfulness even of painful surroundings. Ah! did no conscious ghost of a former vow arise to smite with its power her who thus prostituted heart and soul with a falsehood, in presence of God and man? The heart lay strong below. It did not feel: mute and still were its throbbings, in the grasp of the relentless fingers of fate. There was no answering train of sympa- thies, even to the menmbries of long ago. The sweet love- life of her heart had been very, very bright; but she dared not think of this. "Love, honor, and obey." How echo- less were those words now! When they- had fallen on her soul before, they had throbbed with a mystic and -com- prehensive power, that thrilled the inmost pulses of her being. Now she should have smiled at the pompous solemnity with which the clergyman -uttered them, only     88        ETNA VANDEMR, once the truth well-nigh crushed her, when she gave her hand for the magnificent diamond ring, and noted the plain band of gold she had heedlessly permitted to remain. Ah! with this trivial glance, the scene was changed to the day and hour of another bridal. In fancy it was another hand that grasped hers in its pressure, other lips that imprinted a kiss upon the lips of a young wife, happy and beloved. She who had forsaken all the world to follow him. But the bright hopes of that far-off time burned to ashes long ago. When she remembered this, the sweet music had ceased, the flowers were scentless and withered, the odor from the garlands fled like the enchantment from those bright hours of retrospection. These words may have been empty and meaningless, yet they were sacred, and scrupulously kept in letter and in deed. For long years she was the veriest slave to the capricious and unreasonable exactions of the automatic Dives whom she had vowed to " love, honor, and obey." Yet no thought of hers crossed the wide space between them, neither was the barrier of reserve abridged by any semblance of pretended warmth. A mighty gulf swelled between. Pacific breakers were a myth to the torrent encompassed by the icy walls of conventionalism, beneath the palatial dome of this imbecile Hercules. He realized the vast difference between them, and felt how very far from him was the beautiful statue whom the gay world courted and admired for his sake. She was utterly unapproachable in her quiet, dignified submissiveness,-a model wife, so society said, and set its ban of approbation upon her brow. A shadow fell upon its Parian fairness, even when she sought to believe it true, and to become inured to the sacrifice. She had made a voluntary offering of herself, and must abide. Such seasons were the inertia of " sane lunacy," that ominous calm which springs from crushed life, suspended hope,-far more terrible than that which peoples asylums,-the concious flight of the soul into an unknown dark, whither the material cannot follow,   ETNA VANDEMR.         89 there often in the phantasm of ideal light to linger shiver- ing upon the brink of an abyss covered with flowers. Sen- sible of the galling chains of mortality and the aching void that life is, we would risk the chances, calculating coldly -upon the results of a/fearful leap from time to eternity. These are the homicides most palpably culpable -smiling above the cavernous deeps where self-murder lingers an hour before the contemplated deed is done. This mania was the necessary result of an unfathomed ca- pacity unanswered, turned back with full rich tides upon her heart. It arose not from weakness, but from super- fluous concentrated strength. There was much that was fascinating in the life that she led. She oft quaffed lethean draughts from the cup of pleasure, but never to the dregs. She heard the serpent's hiss in the odorous garlands that bound her to the gilded life around. She knew how burnt the lambent fire in the gulf upon which so many souls are launched with no rudder or compass to steer or to save. Had her heart, in its aching desolation, thrilled and quivered to the touch of some con- genial spirit, that saw beneath the mask of callousness she wore, she would have crushed the throbbings of the an- swering melody, from a high sense of individual honor, or from the stern dictation of duty, whose mandate was strength. Her life was at length congealed in calm stoi- cism. The years walked with the steady tread of fate, and they pressed gradually the tender life from out her heart, as the poor relict lay low in the dust. The chains grew faster and firmer each day, but not less galling be- cause more firmly riveted. One cold evening in November, she was occupying with her husband his box at the opera. At gentleman entered languidly, with thath blase manner which foreign travel imparts. She turned carelessly, turned -again, and started as she recognized him. He was speaking in hurried, exciting tones to her husband,who presented Mr. Meredith to his lady, then rising, excused himself and left     90        ETNA VANDEMR. them. That face! how very long it was since she had seen it! But her musings were very unceremoniously in- terrupted by his exclamation. "Good Heavens! Ellen! you here as his wife! TIow.?" Her look arrested his words, and the torrent was checked. Mr. Meredith remembered himself, and her-their parting; and very courteously they exchanged greetings. When she had seen Robert Meredith last, there was another by hi3 side, whose face now still shone through the years, as it did that morning when they had parted in anger so long ago. She turned to observe the one left at her side. He was fearfully changed. Years of dissipation and meridian suns had written an ineffaceable record upon brow and cheek and form. But they lightly wore the impress: no eye but hers could have detected it. Only how palpably was the iron seal of sensuality set upon Iris lips, though the well-modu- lated tones and the inimitable manner were still un- changed. Her full eyes melted in pity as she gazed upon him; but it was only this: she knew how utterly gone was his manliness. He read something of this, and, catch- ing her hand, bowed low over it, so cold and passive in his ardent grasp, with a strange sense of humiliation in her presence. When men sin, they leave their love far behind them! She was moved more than she cared to manifest. There was a liquidness, but no tremor, in the tones that spoke throuh ththe gushing tumult of other years, as the tides swelled wildly, and its agony was throbbing at her heart. "Welcome back, Mr. Meredith. Your absence has been long." "Yes!" he remarked bitterly; "too long!" and he looked at her fixedly. There was no mistaking the fearful significance of his words. She appeared not to heed them, and drew her breath thicker throughlher set teeth, toying meanwhile with the fan that she held in her hand. She might have   KftAi*1-n2!2 r.        91 rivalled Juno, in her air of easy indifference. He, more piqued than he was willing that she should see, went on to speak, in his easy, affable strain, of those lands where blue skies and melting eyes quadrupled for the individual gratification of every self-conceited egotist who has gold with which to purchase ephemeral pleasures of the senses. She directed his attention to the performance. The opera rendered was that of "Norma."  Clear and full, like some Protean spell floated liquid strains in wavy melody from the orchestral symphony. She had suddenly checked his volubility to behold the artiste,-a tiny creature,- her long hair falling in inky masses upon shoulders white as marble, and almost sweeping the floor at her feet. ," Yes," said he, musingly, "the form, features, and hair are the exact counterpart." She neither heard nor heeded him: her eyes were fixed in passionate forgetfulness upon the singer. The air she chanted was, '"Where are now the hopes I cherished?" Oh, heavens! the wild, pathetic imploring of those thril- ling strains! "And thou yet shalt know the anguish Which hath broken this poor heart!" An answering echo sounded in her soul. She heard the crashing strings, witnessed the passionate death-throes, and, more terrible than all, the sudden sinking into nerve- less apathv, the precursor of mute despair. The grave was far down in her heart-the coffin was lowered-the clods were rattling down upon a manly form and face, that long through her dreams had shone. It loomed up very brightly at the sudden revulsion of memory, as she knew it then; but now the brown locks were entwined with clinging seaweed, and icy hands, bloodstained, were laying the sod upon the tomb of her hopes. Sorrow wild and deep had cleft the rock, and the enchanted waters gushed forth to meet the strains that had melted the ada- mant. She bowed her head on tD front of the box and     92        ETNA VANDEMR. wept. And the strong man, who for his own revenge had brought this bitter ruin upon the life of one he loved, quailed at the sight of her unspoken anguish. The burn- ing drops that trickled through the white fingers were like living coals upon his soul. They who, one short hour be- fore, had bandied words lightly, as though they were but things of air, now realized that a pillar of agony rested on each one, upon which their conversation was built. He had unexpectedly met, under strange circumstances, the woman he had loved for years: she was beautiful and proudly defiant as ever. In this mood, he could have de- fied her still. But all the nobler sentiments of his nature were aroused as he saw her in the abandonment of her grief. Her sorrow appealed to his sympathy, and he could not resist the appeal. He had found words to address her before-why was he mute now? Each knew what was passing in the other's mind, though calmness had set a seal and a hush upon each heart. At length he spoke. , Did you receive a note from me some twelve months since, from Naples, accompanying a locket containing a picture of yourself? This was represented to me to have been found on the banks of Lake Lucerne. I saw the Swiss peasant trying to make sale of it at Naples. I re- cognized the picture, and immediately wrote expressing my convictions that he had been drowned while bathing, as the peasant informed me gratuitously that he had taken the locket from the pocket of some article of apparel, ly- ing carelessly, with the entire suit, upon the shore." Robert Meredith did not add that he had sent the pic- ture and intelligence a year in advance of their second meeting, that the force of the blow might be broken be- fore he should appear to again solicit her hand. He did not even remember this himself; it was of other things he thought now. Passion was quenched. The voice was strong that said to the swelling tumult, "Peace! be still!" He continued rapidly and hurriedly, as though dashing, with a great effort, the last draught of hope from his lips.   ETNA VANDEMR.        93 "I afterwards learned that this was a sheer fabrication. They were purloined by the rascal himself, who at the same time robbed the possessor of a large amount of gold. The owner of that medallion still lives; he came over in the same vessel with me. I, being fully acquainted with the circumstances, and very naturally desirous of tracing this little episode to its finale, followed him toMrs. Eming- ton's, where he sought you. Upon learning that you were married, he sailed immediately for Mexico, whither your husband is gone in search of him, carrying a warrant for his arrest for the murder of his son. I did not tell Mr. Vandemir that you were once his wife. I was not aware that he knew aught concerning the family. I much less expected to find you here. However, fear not; I shall never betray you. I will not constitute myself an aveng- ing Nemesis, notwithstanding I have suffered much at his hands. In memory of the love that once I bore the little gypsy sprite of Luna Glen, I will keep her secret now. But," he added with averted eyes and a gush of genuine feeling-all misty and sparkling it came, as from the fresh fountains of early manhood--"I might have been a better and happier man, if she had loved me."' How many men have spoken thus over the wreck of a blighted life! He sighed as he remembered all his way- wardness, and thought how it might have been lessened had it been otherwise. A gentle hand that he loved might have checked the erratic tendencies of his being, and fashioned his pliant energies to her will. But these feel- ings are in every man's heart, this boundless capacity for love, though no exigency may call them forth. They may lie low, like the hidden coral reefs, beneath briny stagnant tides, and he may never clasp the hand that thrills them into glorious life; but they are there in all their power, though impenetrable walls of stoicism gird them round so firmly that they may never twine their clinging tendrils about a tangible object. Many times, as in this case, they are awakened to hopeless constancy ; they spend hours and     "        ETNA VANDEMR. years in the vain attempt to stifle the insidious memory and vain regret. But why rebel against the inevitable? A man's surroundings make him what he is; circumstances, which are Heaven's seeming ministers to accomplish desired results, develop the several attributes of his being, accord- ing to his need or condition, and none may effectually ap- peal against the infallible decree. Thus thought Robert Meredith, and he heaved a sigh of bitter patience. He was no infidel. He knew that his Creator's image was well-nigh blotted out in the blight that had fallen during his long gropings in a deep satanic night. Yet the memory of his God, as he had first learned to lisp His name, came back with the dear mother's face who taught him. The gleamings of hIis better nature flashed over all as he gazed upon her who was dearer than mother and God to his passionate heart. He gazed upon her, the passive, stately Medea, once again,-so changed from the woman to whom his heart had clung in all those years. He thought sadly, there was nothing left of his "wild gazelle" but her beautiful eyes. They were unchanged in their fearful liquid brightness. She put her hand in his. It was like the sweet trust with which she had once leaned on another form. Now her heart was sick and sore. She was weary of her vaunted strength-the anchor and shield gone. Alas! that there should come such hours to every trusting heart!-hours when, in the torture of its grief, the soul beats its earth- bound wings agains its life-fetters like a wild mountain bird encircled with prison bars,-moments in which we feel ourselves afloat upon a wide sea of destiny, and all the world standing calmly by unheeding, while we sink beneath the cold wild waves. ', Will you take me to my carriage?" said she. He took a seat beside her, nor left her until he assisted her up the marble steps of her palace home. She thanked him in a hoarse voice for his kindness, and gave him her hand in adieu, but drew it quickly back, when he would   'ETNA VANDEMmTR.        95 have pressed his lips upon it with much the same feeling with which he would have kissed that of a stricken sister. SMrs. Vandemir lay for weeks in the delirium that suc- ceeds racking tortures of brain-fever. When she awoke to conciousness, her husband was by her bedside, and the man she loved in a dungeon. The 'wild hope of being able ultimately to release him was more effective than the most efficacious tonic could have been in restoring her to health and strength. With this restless desire, the color came back to her ashen cheek, and when she was well enough to ride, alone, in the solemn silence of a New York three o'clock, the interval where midnight rests and daylight tarries, she. set forth to release him. She had gold. Her impassioned eloquence was that of despair. The turnkey's parsimony was not proof against the former, if his heart was callous to the latter. She slipped into his hand- an additional bribe for silence, and the martyr stepped out beneath the grey night, a free man again. He uttered no thanks! How words would have grated upon their ears then, tor- tured as they were, to hear the faintest sound of that heart-music, stilled so long ago, whose gentle echo was sweeter than any strain of earth-beside! The stars were fiercely bright;, the pale cold moon gleamed down. upon the motionless stones. Each stood silent as-the grins walls that frowned upon them. Pride sealed his lips; honor, hers. One shadowy hand-clasp was all that memory retained to tell of what had been. She went with a heavier heart back to her gilded desolation; he, to seek an asylum from vindictive revenge. No star of hope shone in the sky of their wandering, to lure them on. They only knew how wide and vast the world was, and they, to the end, must dwell in it-alone --apart! A. few weeks afterward, Mrs. Vandemir received a message from Robert Meredith, requesting her to come to him; he was very ill, and wished to see her at his hotel.     96        ETNA VANDEMR. Thither she repaired at an early hour, and found him very ill indeed. It is a fearful thing to see a strong man, strick- en in the pride of his strength, with the blight of a ling- ering illness. How weak in mind, how capricious, how like a little child he becomes! We have known those who, like him, have wandered far from the path of recti- tude, who have scorned a father's teachings and a mother's prayers; and yet, when this sorrow came upon them, they dreamed the long hours of solitude away in a strange hotel, sighing for the soft hand that once had power to charm their pain away, and the angel face that had lain so long, "Underneath the grassy cover, human want and waiting over. Ah! well we knew the gilded highway had been very bright, and the wayside flowers pleasant to the sight: few there are who would have refrained from gathering them. But for every rose scattered to the winds of pas- sion, there will be a thorn in the crown the haughty brow must wear at last, though they cast the cross aside. The vulture, remorse, had grasped the conscience of Robert Meredith at last. He placed in Cornelia's hands the intercepted letters that during the last five years he had gathered up. Then she knew for the first time how fondly and devotedly, in the years that separated them, her hus- band had loved her; and it was with a great pang she saw that, in all that long time, he had been uncheered. by one word of affection from his wife. They were all un- opened, however, and she read them at her leisure. There was the long struggle after the first parting, the strife, old as time, for gold to make his wife a home ; and then, when hope had died from his heart, he had accident- ally learned that she was still living, and had risked all to see her, sleeping on another's heart,-his wife. How was strength given her to live on and yet know this? How can we yet, when hopes, joy, love, all are A   ETNA VA-NDEMR.        97 swept away by some hurricane stroke of fate, wear exist- ence, its many-colored garbs,-walk its weary routine? 'T is no wonder the weak fall by the wayside. All honor to the brave, who, suffering, still live on. She did not again visit Robert Meredith, until he sent for her a few hours previous to his death. He caught her hand frantically, and burst forth in passionate broken tones: "Cornelia, you see before you a wreck of manhood, very miserable, and near his death hour. His sins are many, but you will forgive him, for," he added in a hoarse whisper, "he loved much!" Her tears-the first she had shed, but once, since her marriage day, again flowed like rain over his livid hands. She were less than woman had she spoken no kind word to him then. She even nerved her voice to sing the song he wished to hear, a simple lay of home. A strain of wild music, the faintest touch upon mute chords, may bid the tide again flow that bears back the shadowy forms of far-off years upon its bosom,-voices of those who spoke sweet words in hours of youth, whose graves from our own hearts were hollowed out and gar- nished with the treasures there. Life was sinking low in the veins and pulses of Robert Meredith, and the wild sob of memory was like the ( Moan of wearied ocean when the storm is gone." She left his side no more until the strong man's spirit had gone forth into the night, and his body rested beneath a pompous slab in Grcenwood, while distant relatives like birds of prey were screamiig over his- property, the frail remnant left, and rending his character to fragments. We remember having played a simple "home air" for an old gentleman we had known in childhood. At the close, we were impressed with his attitude of abject de- jection. Large tears coursed down his checks, and he n'     98        ETNA VANDEMR. seemed too much abstracted to wipe them awav. Recover- ing himself at length, he added in extenuation, "They are the first I have shed since my mother died. I was thinking of home." Thirty- years had passed since from his mother's grave he had gone forth into the great world, so filled with diversified temptations to young manhood. He had -.  wandered far and long. There was no voice in the olden X tones to call back the weary prodigal. It is true there 'were those who wept that he strayed; but none under- stood him-all censured and blamed. These few familiar strains had borne down the icy walls of cynicism,-surg ed through the flood-gates of his heart. Like a little child he wept then,- wept for his youth and fallen manhood, as he had wept by his mother's graveside. That was one week ago. We were recalling the scene, when the sound of a tolling bell stole faintly on our ears. We had heard of the terrible stroke of paralysis which he had suffered, and we knew our friend was dead. Another soul had passed from earth away to its home in the great hereafter. It is with a pang we remember, he will have no bright green sward for his pillow and shroud, only the icy clay; for shrill November blasts are eddying the crisp leaves down, and blinding sleet is falling from the cold grey sky. There is a group of silent watchers with a great aching void in their hearts, a widow-wife with no strong arm upon which to lean while she walks the valley pathway of life's evening. We trust he has found a home, like that upon which he thought and dreamed and wept that chill winter o'er,-where floods of eternal springtime flow through pastures of living green,-where the ties broken here have been renewed, and he has met those from whom he was so long parted.   CHAPTER VI. WILTON -CHANGES I THE GLEN HOMESTEAD. TEREESCORE bliss-encircled, tear-gemmed years, embla- zoned in the sapphire hues of gorgeous dreams and sad realities,-a magnificent temple of time, resplendent in the twilight radiance of memory, has drifted out on the still bosom of the waveless ocean of the past, to a haven of ages gone, since the white turrets of Wilton were reared, distinct for many surrounding miles against the noon-bright sky, gleaming in the caressing sun-rays. Those inter- vening years, though few and short, filled with momentous occurrences to nations and individuals, have left no im- press, cast no shadow there. Unlike most primitive mansions of the old colonial days, Wilton was built somewhat after the order of an English manor-house; though it was also abundantly evident that the fancy of the architect had taken a vast range, and displayed the genius of adaptation, in crowding together odds and ends of diversified styles, some entirely obsolete, occasionally modified with modernisms so entirely original and inventive as to proclaim his birthright to Yankee soil. The large square hall was flanked on either side with octagonal wings, each terminating in a vast dome, that grew into a triangular cupola, impannelled on the  three sides, and ornamented profusely with the most exquisite stained glass. One might imagine the Alhambra . .  99 , .       '      100        ETNA VANDEMR. had been rifled of its most marvellous decorations to supply these lofty observatories. The external appearance of the edifice was of the most imposing character. Everything surrounding bore an ai-r of fitness and completeness. not- withstanding its peculiar construction. Even the little stoop, from which the long L-s opened with trellised glycene, wore the complacency of sequestered peace, and sweetly invited you to rest. The neatly shorn sward of the beautiful grounds sur- rounding was embroidered with myriads of rare and beautiful flowers, belted with serpentine walks paved with small white stones, some clear and crystal as those we gather by the seaside when the tide ebbs far,--dotted with giant forest trees, beneath whose kingly shadow the arbor-vitc, pine, and Wornay fir, with quiet, unassuming dignity, wore their robes of darker emerald, and the sumac Dlutshed deeper in the amber glow of the westering sun. On cither side of the pavement a fountain cast up its liquid diamonds, coquetting with the sunbeams, and falling back awcary of arial sport, as though unwilling to leave the glittering scales of the gold and silver fishes, glancing like diamond sparks dreamily in the drowsy murmur of waters, and the whispering of breezes in the marble recep- tacle that held them. Bright-winged birds chanted to the music of fragrant airs their morning orisons; and far toward the sunset land, beyond where the widespread circular lawn terminated at an ancient iron gateway, supported by a massive Norman colonnade, overhung with clustering ivy, the Susque- hanna, that most beautiful of all American rivers, in truth our western Arno, glided and rustled its snowy pebbles, like hummnirg bees around a newly blown rose, singing hymrns on its glad way to the Chcsapeake. Wilton occupied an elevated position, and from the verandahs the eye might range for leagues over the beauti- ful cultivated lands, bounded by a gravel road, its bor- dering willows swaying gently in the breeze, and laving   ETNA VANDEMR.         101 their sturdy limbs in the lucid waves that, kissed the grassy strand on which they grew. Oh, beauteous river! lovely beyond description in the early morning's sunlight!--its surface clear as molten crystal: rippling, swelling with gentle pulses; resplen- dently calm in the noonday's splendor, and yet dearer to the eye and heart when the burning beams have sunk to rest in its bosom, when the shadowy twilight falls, and evening with her misty train is embroidering earth with her- primitive Eden dews, of which she has still an abundant residue. The people of the North and East love their Hudson and St. Lawrence; the West their Ohio, and the South their Mississippi: the Britons their Thames, the French their Seine, the Romans their Tiber, and the Germans their native Rhine: but better far than all these do we love this beautiful river, for the memories by land and by sea that are here garnered up. List to the heart-chimes as they ring out clear' and silvery on a morning; sadder than any upon which we sat by its sides or rowed upon its bosom. The fast-flowing tide ebbs back again : loved ones sing forgotten songs as in those other days, brighter far. Once more, as on a still quiet summer morning long ago, we hear the music of the rippling river,--behold coining up in his morning majesty from beyond the mountain ridge, and girdle of emerald woodland, the sun's opal chariot of splendor, chasing the mist from the crystal surface of the blue waters, tinting with amber beam the bright-hued shore, lighting the river's face with a radiant glow,-ever changing as the cha- meleon, and wearing its loveliest hues at last. The flashing oars, the strong arms that guided them, the entrancing melody of home strains of sweetest music, borne softly in the morning breath over the gushing waters, enchanting strains from Kentucky's beloved groves far away! - 'T is a siren voice that speaks to us of those happy days of our hearts' springtime. The hand of friendship,     102        ETNA VANDEMIR. firm and true, claspdt our own then; the misty splendor of a pair of dark, beautiful eyes was upon us, and their owner's presence like a halo encircled our hearts. The hours of trust were sweet in their brief duration. Other forms were there, other brows radiant in the exultant happiness of that remembered morning. One of heaven's bright spirits, who had wandered from her native sphere, and lost her way in the wilderness of this cold, ungenial world,-the (to her) fatal gift of poesy, breathing incense through the subdued spell-like calm of her slumberous orbs, glowing with the Promethean fire of genius, breaking from the deeps of soul into untaught rhyme. That lyre has long been mute, for the hand that swept its trembling chords, with sweet life-giving power, now rests cold and still upon the pulseless heart in its coffin. Dearest Ella! sweet friend! how dearly\in those few bright days we learned to love thee! WheF afar in our Southern home the words "She is dead" caphe to us, in a  letter penned by a sister-friend, our heart's went out to linger in mute despair by that laurel-crowndd grave, went after her down into the chill and the-farkness of her earthly tomb. But our souls lingered not there, by her resting-place. Upon the wings of a holy faith, our thoughts flew beyond the shadowy valley, beyond the Hades of doom, to a house not made with hands, with walls of jasper, and gold-paved street, where hearts grow lighter with loving, throughout the long day whose glori- ous brightness shall never end. Hers is a tranquil rest- for, how placidly she went to sleep! Near the margin of her own beautiful river she lies, where the limpid waves kiss the emerald turf at her feet until the resurrection morning. Sweet friend, we wonder will that other morning be remembered then? Are the voices of memories, as they cling to us here, echoless in the shadowy hereafter land? Our tears are falling thick and fast upon the frail willow branch, withered so lang ago, like more than one   ETNA VANDEMR.         103 fond heart, exultant in those brief hours of joy. Chills more blighting than those cold grave-damps have fallen upon -others. All else is changed-oh! how sadly! Land, and waves intervene between us and the trusting clasp of the dear friendly hand that once we held.  The daifk eyes, we doubt not, are radiant as of old, yet they are not ours; and the lips that spoke so sad a farewell- "Her smiles to others all belong, ;i, AAnd want that charm which dwells alone i        * 'Round those the fond heart calls its own." i   Would Leon row his boat lightly for us, as he promised to do, when we, come again? !;    Taste was curiously blended with eccentricity, and both degenerated into caprice, in the decoration of the in- 2   tcrior of the mansion at Wilton. It would have been dif- i:; ficult to determine the progeniture of its proprietor from his surrounding  The library, opening from the reception- room in the reft wing, was filled with paintings of the greatest American statesmen and orators, works of Ameri- can artists. There were portraits of Sir Robert Peel, Pitt, Russell, Sidney, Canning, Burke, Fox, Sheridan, and others of England's master-spirits, whose names so brighten the records of her greatness. The right wing of the house constituted the sumptuous drawing-room. It * was. of immense length, separated by Gothic arches and Corinthian columns, decorated with the finest paintings of R Eubens, Raphael, and Michael Angelo. These were re- I;,  lieved by portraits of many of our modern poets. Statues It   of Canova were reposing in architectural niches; and the ceiling, like the exterior of the building, terminated in an arching dome, skilfully frescoed, from whose centre was suspended an antique chandelier, massive and curious, with numerous tinted. globes, upheld-by small bronze figures. This quaint suit of apartments .was furnished     104        ETNA VANDEMR. after the order of an Engiish palace during the reirn of Queen Elizabeth. The!ghll-blacked chairs were embcroi- dered en suite with the elaborate tapestry, whose execution must have cost the lustre oi moren than one pair of eyes. A profound knowledge of history and a strantg senso of fitness were manilest in the appropriate arraingemient of these pictures. Foxjand Sheridan, the "Enclish Demos- thenes, and the Engrlish Hespirus," as .Macaulay lias styled them, hung face to face, a most natural position for thelm. In direct contrariety to this, Hamilton had no peer, ior he who should have been there was denied a place. Why was not that illustrious cotemporary permitted to hold a position with these honored dead? Oh! the bitter mockery of a great name, when so much injustice is often done to many more worthy in order to purchase it! Better never a temple of fame, than that its corner-stone should be laid "p'on some heart perhaps more deserving. But we are assailed with the cogent argument, His was a blood-stained hand,-a hand that, in its weight of vindictive wrath, had stricken a bright star from the firmament of our country's greatness. This we admit. At your own tribunal, O ye wise ones, le stands condemned! Who shall say that it shall be always thus? or that man's judgment shall weigh an iota in the measure of Divine justice? Canning Elwood's love of truth and justice, and his corresponding horror of bloodshed, were so great, that even had he known the hand were iaised in self-defence, he would scarcely have forgiven the crime. His father had renounced allegiance to George III., owing to his unjust persecution and oppression of the American colonies. He had placed a wide sea between himself and the country that he loved, the land of his youth; and though dear to his heart wag the cherished native home of his fathers, yet his love of liberty was so great, and the precious prerogative to live, enjoy, and transmit a priceless heritage to posterity, an inducement so strong, as to cause him to renounce the urincely revenue   ETNA VANDEMR.        105 accruing from a baronetcy that had been entailed upon lis ancestors for centuries. But how very difficult it is for a man, even though he eschew a false system to which he has become inured, to free himself from the baneful effects that cling to him like a pestilence when the mighty seals are broken! With this view, he came with his family to America, and endeavored by every means that wealth could devise to make the house of his adoption the ideal of perfection. Yet his manner was habitually so austere, that he repelled strangely, and became isolated in the midst of congenial I  spirits. And notwithstanding his country soon came to be all his heart would have her, all that the ardor of his manhood's hope had made her, yet - he went down to old age, growing daily more morose and taciturn than ever, until finally he withdrew into himself and his own home. Wilton grew in beauty, now that his only son was rapid- ly growing to manhood. He spent many of his declining years in embellishing the exterior, house and grounds, and collecting treasures with which to adorn his unique hoine. The large hall was terminated by one of similar dimen- sions, looking out upon a beautiful flower-garden, and a circular grove of maple-trees, that were the pride of its proprietor. This second was the dining-hall, where each day the ex-baronet sat over his wine with all the pomp of former pride. His guests were mostly those of state, or foreigners travelling in this country. His exclusive habits grew more prominent each day. The broad oaken staircase transported one in dreams, by the aid of Irving's living pictures, to Abbottsford, Annesley Hall, and Newstead Abbey. A huntsman's revel would not have seemed misplaced in this hall, nor a steeple- chase in the grounds surrounding Wilton. The main portion of the building was two stories high, terminating in peaked gables, which had the effect of spires when viewed with the circular domes on either hand. There was an extended range of sleeping apartme:lts,     106        ETNA VANDEMR.             - above the main entrance, which merged il a long L, the  full length of the dining hall, each window, like those be. a low, overlooking the flower-garden and grove of maples.  To the eastward, Wilton chapel reared its tall spire, i, far toward the skyey vault above. The churchyard sur- rounding, with its white stones gleaming, the clear spell- like calnm of the summer lake, the cool shadowy wood, and the liquid music of the stream that wound its silver path- way around by the Glen mansion, and mingled, in a wild gush of tender melody, with the waters of the Sus- quehanna, as it bent in a graceful curve to meet the limpid tribute, where the green sward blossomed in a perpetual twilight, so dense was the over-arching foliage of the forest kings surrounding Wilton,-formed indeed a scene, "Where musing solitude might love to lift Hier soul above this sphere of earthness, Where silence, undisturbed, might watch alone,- So cold, so bright, so still!" There were few visitors from the country, even in the immediate vicinity, entertained by Mrs. Elwood. Many of the inhabitants looked with a kind of superstitious awe, not unmingled with distrust,-the feeling with which sim- plicity is wont to regard vaunted display,-upon the family group conveyed each bright Sabbath morning to Wilton church, in an ostentatious carriage, when the distance was so short; though they had no footman, and their driver was unliveried. The family at Luna Glen, however, were an exception to the general rule, as they seemed to enjoy the privilege of free and unrestrained intercourse. Francis Lynton was the chosen friend and counsellor of Mr. Elwood, the propa- gator of many of his philanthropic schemes, the dispenser of his munificent bounty; and very much good was done by that kind, though mistaken old man, by proxy. Un- fortunately, it was his habit to think, as do many others, that the imbecile and suffering only require money to rc-   ETNA VANDEMR. -       107 lieve their wants. - Ah! did the Saviour think this? No; such was not His creed or practice. There is much beside this that may be given of our abfandance. There are the gentle tones that tremble like sweetest music on ears upon which the refreshing dew Ifhuman kindness rarely falls. There are electric words of comfort and cheer, and the trusting hand-clasp that. thrills the tried heart, nerving them to one more last effort, ere they fall suffering and stricken by the wayside in the trackless wil- derness of their earthly pilgrimage. More priceless than jewels is the " cup of cold water " to a thirsting soul. Could mortals retard the never-varying power that impels time onward in his ceaseless routine, there would be no heartaches from day to day, no broken trusts, no coffined remains of a once fond hope, no mortal semblance of a vain dream, no endless vigils and spirit-wails, over our worshipped, broken idols. We would tarry in some beautiful joy-land for a long season; but this may not be: the never-resting current is hurrying us on, and "' our little life is rounded with a sleep." The brightest earthly career has its final issue in the event which terminates the existence of the lowliest of. God's creatures. Each fleeting hour wrote its record in time's calendar  of events. Canning Elwood was married, and brought his young bride back to Wilton. His father lived suffi- ciently long to centre all-the blended pride and ardor of his second childhood's hope upon the bright-eyed boy, Canning's child, whose wondrous precocity, now in his fifth year, gave the most alarming symptoms of Young Americanism, which untoward evidences of degeneration distressed the old aristocrat greatly. Master Henry, however, was unwilling to be trammelled by convention- alities and abstract proprieties, and grew &very day more determined in his rebellious, reckless spirit. Anon there was a long deep grave hollowed out in Wil- ton churchyard, and one bright Sabbath morn, a hearse, with nodding plumes and jetty horses, headed a long pro- p//..     108        ETNA VANDEMR. cession, that wended its way through the shadowy wood to the church. Save to himself, his life had been vain. There were 'ew tears shed when the service was ended; no bcnccction pronounced by any lips save those of the clergyman, among the many who had assembled to witness the funeral rites. Few understood, none loved him. But, ah! in one heart he lived on to the end, and in this one there was desolation that he was gone. Neither ago nor earthly blight had dimmed the lustre of her love. Very, very soon she followed him to the shadow land; and there was a great monument reared in Wilton churchyard above the two graves. Ilow plain and unassuming looked the brown stones in its sha'dow! Upon the broad flat sides was engraved the baronet's coat of arms, and, beau- tifully wrought in carved lilies, the name of Elwoodl Mrs. Elwood the elder was a Hastings. She was well educated, refined, and accomplished; and throughout her residence at Wilton, she was unable to rid herself of morbid regret that her husband's inclination had led him thither, had caused him to leave his home for a stranger's. But the devoted wife proved her kindly and affectionate consideration for his feelings by concealing this, which she did effectually. She was 4iis junior by many years; and, in the early days of their union, it was hard to bid adieu to the scenes of a happy childhood, and look for the last time upon her beloved mioorlands, and the faces dear to her which in life she did not again behold! Yet the images were mirrored in her heart to the last. She was very fond of the harp, and she would sit for hours in her private sitting-room, sweeping its strings in accompani- ment to some dulcet melody, one of Moore's sweet songs, lier eyes resting meanwhile upon a full-length portrait of Warren Hastings. Fondly and pensively she studied form and features, and there was such a golden link of consanguinity binding them, that she seemed to be in the presence of that grand soul, from whom it was her mis- fortune to be divided by years and miles. * Ssr   ETNA VANDEMTR.        1 09 She was passionately fond of music, and never neglect- cd the culture and exercise of this glorious talent. That of Mozart, Handel, Beethoven, and other masters of this divine science, often floated out in liquid strains upon tl helhath of Wilton. Her flower-garden, too, bloomed beneath her supervision. In these two wcllsprings of ex- quisite joy, which were the perpetually recurring sources of' lcasurc, she kept the sunlight of youth on her face, thloughl its roses dropped one by one from her cheeks. It was tlis, too, that bound the heart of her husband in deathless chains to her side. She only loved him more, that the great world knew him not. To her he was not austere and pompous, but tender and gentle. He was intolerant in his aristocratic exclusivencss, to the democ- racy of his adopted land. He stood supreme in her heart-she who knew him as his God, and measured his frailties, as that good, kind Fathe who loveth and pitieth the weakcst of His-children, will leigh those of the sons of men.             ; The mainspring of her life seemed broken when he died. The harp was silent during the last days of her pilgrimage, when he was no more of earth. Only once did she touch the keys of her piano. That was the evening previous to her last, fatal illness., Canning Elwood pressed his hand upon his heart, to still the convulsive throbbings. His fair wife bent her graceful head to conceal her tears; and little Harry wept, he knew not why, as the hymn from the Oratorio of the Intercession, her special favorite, swelled through the lofty drawing-room. The silence was profound, and silver-voiced echo repeated the words long after the music had ceased. They were again swept, more tremblingly now, and detached strains from Mozart's Ictquiem lingered on the air, hovering like an immortal spell in the tall, stately apartment, where amber rays of sunset slanted in a blaze of glory. It seemed, as in truth it was, the last wail of a soul dearly released from its earthly bands, a fitting and appro-     "O        ETNA VANDEMR. priate symphony of the "eternity of blissful harmonies" in which her spirit would raise its voice, in a song of infinite praise and triumph. The last strain flowed in liquid melody from her touch, and its ecllo still lingered in that shadowy room after her mortal star had gone out from the firmament of home-life at Wilton. It was long before little Harry Elwood forgot his gentle grandmother. With his own little hands he planted lilies and tuberoses upon her grave. It was not singular, being reared in this atmosphere, that Canning Elwood should have been somewhat fas- tidious in his selection of a companion, since he partook of many of the old gentleman's peculiar sentiments and characteristics, and inherited all his mother's love for the land of her birth. Many were the glittering nets laid to entrap him by the fair ones in the vicinity of Wilton. They were unsuccessful, however. He had been educated to the law, and having graduated with honor at Cambridge, Mass., married a lady in New York and settled to prac- tise in Harrisburg, where he resided with his family, pursuing his avocation successfully, until the failing health of his father had recalled him to Wilton, a few weeks subsequent to his election as Judge of the Circuit Court. However, although he removed his family to the farm, he did not shrink from the duties imposed by his office until his term expired. And after that time, his counsel was often sought, as one whose superiority was unquestionable, During his term at college, one of his most genial and de- voted friends had upon some slight pretext insulted his opponent in class. A challenge was the result, a duel. the consequence. It was conducted withdut the knowledge of the teachers, of course, but it came off in the recreation ground before sunrise. He was startled by the unusual commotion, the trampling of many feet, and he arose and went below, to find his friend'weltering in his blood, murdered by the mean-spirited boy who had outraged and   -ETNA VANDEMR.        1" insulted him. The practice of duelling has been fostered !   in our private circles-to what pernicious results, many, alas! can answer. True, it has been denounced and oft- times punished by judicial tribunals; but it should be    execrated. Society should put down the dragon that visits    such terrible retributions for ahasty word often repented the moment it is uttered. Redress of grievances . Surely this is not the way to obtain them. -,By so doing, if you are the injured party, you take your chance in the lottery of life and death, with the man who has wronged you. If you kill him, his blood is upon your hands and upon your soul; if he kills you, then you have lost your hope of satis- factory redress hereas hereafter. For you are gone into the presence of your God with murder in your heart, therby cutting yourself off from Divine clemency. The blood-of Abel entailed a curse upon him that has descended to the present time. It is remorse upon one hand, and death upon the other.     :  The death of his young friend made a deep and lasting impression upon the heart of Canning Elwood. It was owing to this and his innate love of justice, the realization of the heinous crimes often committed in the name of /honor, that his unconquerable horror-of bloodshed, almost a mania, had grown up. IJuring the term of his official service, he was never known to grant a petition, or exhibit any leniency whatsoever to the suppliant, if he importuned with blood-stained hands. His intoleranie was extreme, his nature uncompromising. Thistfeeling, whatever it may have been, clung to him through life. He was much more popular in his neighborhood than his father had been. His lady by her genial temperament and winning manner had woven together the links of a most delightful circle of the leading spirits in Lewisburg, ( Milton and Harrisburg society. Canning had not disap- pointed his father's ardent hopes in his marriage. She was- truly worthy to sustain her position as the wife of a man possessing the exalted qualifications and unblemished in-     .  f  1     "2        ETNA VANDEMR. tegrity of Judge Elwood, and their son had grown to be all thalt they in their ardent hopes would have made him. For- tunately his father knew nought of the habits of wild and reckless dissipation that had characterized his sojourn at Transylvania University, where he was educated. Yet there was not in all the region of Wilton a more frank, genial, generous spirit, faithful in his friendships and ar- dent in his loves. His was truly a grand soul, strictly honorable in all his transactions. His high-minded father could not have shrunk in greater horror from the contem- plation or perpetration of a great crime, or petty con- temptible action, than he. He possessed his mother's affectionate heart, her cordial manner, and his father's uncompromising pride. His love for the wine-cup was his besetting sin, an error from which he was far the greatest sufferer. Though in after years, when the hand of sorrow was laid heavily upon him, he renounced this ephemeral indulgence, dashed the  serpent from him as the cause of all his woe. Twenty years!  Their birth, duration and death are written in shadow and mist upon the white sides of Wil- ton. Some of its aged trees have fallen, some have bowed lower, and its evergreens have grown taller and darker with the passing days. But the fountains still cast up their liquid spray, murmuring in the sunlight; birds sing cheerily as of old; bees are busy with the odorous sweets of opening flowers, and the shorn lawn smiles answering to the azure arching sky. Within, there was the atmosphere of voiceless chaos and oppressive space, as if some mighty world-wide hope had perished long ago, and its convulsive death-throes had shaken the inner-life to its centre. Its nameless presence hovered around the sunny hearth. The iron hand had written deep the record upon the fond mother's brow, and in the snowy blight upon the brown locks of the father. Yet amid all this there seemed to be a bright anticipation   ETNA VANDEMR.        113 blossoming into a new hope, that might for a season dispel the lingering gloom of the old. Marion and Grace would return in a few days.( The mother's eye beamed with a softer light, and the careworn father's face relaxed its wonted sternness, and assumed a benign expression of fond concern, as she glided from roonm to room with the forethought of a careful housewife, preparing for their arrival, previous to departing to attend the Commencement. They came. Marion Elwood was very beautiful, with the calm, rapt expression of one of Raphael's angels. Eighteen years had come and gone: the springs with their balmy breath, and boundless wealth of buds and blossoms; long sultry summer hours and autumns brown. Winter's crimson suns, too, had risen upon the snow-crusted earth. Neither season's dawn or wane had brought one shadow to her youthful brow. No cloud for an instant dimmed the sunny radiance of girlhood's joy. The terrible lile- long woe, whatever it might be, that had convulsed those tender hearts, was unknown to her. So strictly was she i guarded, that no intimation had ever reached her of its existence. She was the idol of her doating parents,-an only child, she was taught to believe, though she shared her home, at her father's instance, with the grand-daughter of Francis Lynton, the ward of her father. The orphan was very welcome at his home: she yvas the last relative of the old man who had been his father's most intimate friend and nearest neighbor. At the age of twelve years she had been left entirely alone in the world, her parents having died within a few years of each other., The fine estate lying contiguous to Wilton was much dilapidated since it had beeh so long tenantless. Hood's g ,wierd legend, s The haunted house," recurred vividly to the mind, upon first beholding this quaint old homestead, so impressive in its attitude of uncompromnising solitude, so majestic in its gloomy decay:. -he housekeeper of the 8 ",.     "4        ETNA VANDEMR. Lyntons, Mrs. Merton, who was left in charge, was the only occupant. Grace's grandmother had died when she was quite a child. For many years she had lived entirely alone with her grandfather and Mrs. Merton. Upon his death she had been sent, with Marion Elwood, her constant friend and playmate, to a Northern academy. They were very fond of each other, were of equal years; and as two rills, straying thiough the same vales, the same flowers blossoming upon the strand of each, sunlight gleam- ing from their petals, the same blue sky above, they had 3ung their bright youth away: the joyous past and radiant present were interwoven in the golden tissue of hope into a gorgeous future for each, in that beautiful world upon whose threshold they stood. Would those sunny anticipa- tions be realized? Is it always vain to dream dreams of earth? Both were young, both fair: c one was beauti- ful." You felt it in Marion's Dian-like presence. Indif- ference invariably vanished in the sunny radiance of her smile. The most magnificent superstructure of reserve always melted as silver morning dew, beneath the meridian beams of a tropical sun, under the steady truthful scrutiny of such eyes as Marion Elwood bent upon Manfred Hastings, when he came to visit -his stranger cousin, and subvert for- tune in another land. The long silent harp was touched again, and the notes of a new piano, which had preceded her from New York, resounded throughout Wilton's con- secrated shades,-not now in requiem, but in accompani- ment to the highborn throbbing hopes that were busy at the heart of each. Mr. Hastings observed, in contemplating Wilton on the morning following his arrival, "Within these enchanted scenes and mystic surroundings, one might alnost imagine himself threading the floral labyrinth of the original Wilton, while these grand old trees lend their aid to complete the illusion."   ETNA VANDEMR.        115 c Oh, yes!" remarked Judge Elwood graciously; Sand we only want ' the light of young romance,' and ' poetry in action,'-which, says the poet Campbell, was embodied and illustrated in the life of Sir Philip Sydney,-and the 'stream of golden thoughts flowing from the fertile brain and dropping like diamond sparks from the pen of that great man into ' Arcadia,'-to complete the spell, and re- call scenes that my father has pictured so often, that their forms and fancies became dreams of my boyhood." The old gentleman mused.  Manfred Hastings' eyes sought those of Marion. Ah! to these two the light of young romance was not wanting! "Sydney is a name of which England may be justly proud, and we are more than gratified at the complimen- tary reference to our American home, and duly sensible of the honor conferred by this visit from my mother's rel- ative and the descendant of Warren Hastings." The gentleman bowed low. His host was evidently in a loquacious mood, and he encouraged him to proceed by his silence and profound attention. "You remember," continued he, "' that Sir Philip was only a guest at Wilton, the house of his brother-in-law, Lord Pembroke, when he wrote his famous Arcadia! Migiht not our guest so honor us, and confer a similar favor? Eh! Marion?" Would that I were capable," answered Mr. Hastings, with true humility. "And yet," continued he, " if you will permit me, I will leave my record here, though I carry my treasure away." Without waiting for a response to his singular remark, he again turned to Marion. His look was eloquent of feeling. cI have the honor to be a Hastings. May-I not, as did my illustrious predecessor, possess ag ' elegant mansion "?"  His words sank into her heart as the sunsets in the clear bosom of a summer lake, making alllbightness there. The glow of tinted waves rose up and suffused her cheeks.     "6        ET'NA VANDEMR. Earth's wilderness was fairy land to her then. Hallecl says, "There are some happy molnents in this lone And desolate world of ours, that well repay The toil of struggling thrllliough it, and atone For many a long sad night and weary day." This exquisitejbliss comes not alone in wild vauone dreams: reali tYometimes wears rose-tinted hues, -when love stands at the entrance-gate, strewing the realm hal- lowed by his presence with fair and beautiful flowers. Let those who will come with an array of philosophic research and argument to prove existence a myth, or refute the evidence of that happy face and clear sunny brow,- employ unfeeling logic, to illustrate the fallacy of life, seeking to demonstrate Tat it is one season of unremitting pain. We say let them go back to the days of their early love, when heart and soul bowed down in mute adoration before the visions of a first fond dream, when earth was Eden, and so filled with light and glory from the heaven that was then so near.  Who has not felt the pulses of immortality throbbing  through their love,-a conscious- ness that this at least is eternal, a sweet recompense for all they suffer here? Well; we require some such exalted assurance that our lives are not wholly vain, some reminder of Eden bliss, some practical evidence that existence is not a fable, as many have sought to impress upon those who wander here,-some perpetually recurring conviction that the finer attribute linking us to Divinity is not wholly lost, irretrievably sunken beneath the tide of added wayward- ness, as the hopes and life-resolves of our Adaimitic pre- decessors, into a vortex of original sin. Some proof that the good, kind father has remembered us is this boon of love and hope, even though the doom  sounds evermore in heart and brain, daily, hourly, momently fulfilled. We   oft forget, when bowing low at the shrine of worldly. pleasure, that we  are but treading a broad highway to death and expiation. How recklessly we plunge into the   ETNA, VANDEMR.        117 impelling current, heedless of the crimson tide of divin life that ran down from Calvary, for one and all of the sons of Earth!-a glorious, beneficent atonement and re- demption! Bcthelchcm's star rose bright and beauteous upon the long drear night of Judah's abasement-- a Lion of that mighty tribe, foretold for ages; yet a Prince of peace. A mortal, suffering for his degenerate fellow mortals dis- grace, ignominy and death. Stars that sang together when the world sprang forth from chaos, and have since kept tireless night-vigils through the ages, oft smiled down from their mighty thrones, upon a God, homeless, houseless, a wanderer, in His Father's world not where to lay His weary head,-fulfilling all, and completing His divine mis- sion to the bitter end. He has bequeathed a cross in life, a grave rest, until He shall come again,- not in a lowly manger, but in , the clouds and great glory." To the faithful He has promisetI a crown and life eternal, in His Father's house of many mansions; a white robe, a golden harp, and rest to the weary suffering sons of earth. Shall we not invoke aid from the Almighty power, who can nerve our arms for the conflict with sin and tempta- tion, that victory and triumph may at last be ours?     CHAPTER     VII. THE NORTHERN ACADEMY - GRACE'S ILLNESS EUGENE VANDEMR--AN OLD FRIEND. AT a leading Institute in New York City, Marion and Grace had passed five years of duty pleasantly. That season, oftentimes a period of bitter endurance to the young, was one from which they derived many pure, child- ish delights. They were very happy in their mutual affec- tion and girlish confidence. They were bound by other ties than those capricious ones of infantine preference: a perfect harmony of taste and feeling, blended with a mu- tual consciousness of intellectual supremacy, caused each to seek in the other's society the congenial companionship which ordinary minds were incapable of affording them. The friendships of childhood! What homage to the chosen cherished one! How widely different the motives impelling our selection of associates from vaster multitudes in after years! No gods of self-interest sway, in those tender, trusting hours, the heart's impromptu allegiance. This feeling in their daily intercourse had become almost exclusive. Though they possessed the entire confidence of pupils and instructors, and during their last term they were permitted to extend their daily recreations beyond the limit, and often to go alone, without the presence of the assistant who usually accompanied them. In their daily walks, they often met a young gentleman, who was evidently much prepossessed in favor of Grace, from the scrutiny which he Invariably awarded to her. "S   ETNA VANDEMRS        119 He was very youthful, and after a while made their ac- quaintance with a deprecating diffidence, his blue eyes so full of melting tenderness, that Grace at least was pleased to banish formality, and respond with a sweet smile, which each day grew more winning to the young student. Such he evidently was: he possessed too much artlessness to have learned the world's ways well. Marion professed serious alarm at the growing intimacy; and with an arch smile she proposed taking another course. But it was needless to have adopted such precaution, for he always managed to encounter them where they least expected him, and invariably escorted them to the block upon which their dwelling was, forbearing to render them liable to censure by trespassing upon prescribed customs. At this period their intercourse was interrupted by an event that caused the direst terror to the fond hearts. Grace was suddenly stricken with that fearful malady, typhoid fever. Those were hours of torturing agony to Marion, who stood by her bedside ministering, as in more eventful after days she ministered to her dearest friend,- bathing the scorching temples, fanning the fevered brow, holding to the parched lips icy cooling draughts. How much it pained her to hear the sufferer in her ravings whisper that name! EreNlong, delirium relaxed its tor- turing hold upon the burning brain. Then came the pulse- less trance. The fearful deathke lethargy that ensued was terrible. Very beautiful, like a faded wreath, she looked as she lay for hours. upon the pillow, her eyes closed to earth, her ear deaf to its tumult, as in a long un- broken dream. At last convalescence came on slow lingering feet. She . was often cheered by the arrival of some slight token of remembrance and affection from her romantic cavalier. A serenade in midnight stillness--a tribute of flowers. A faint ray of color stole back into her cheeks as she pressed to her mute lips gems culled by the hand of one who was dear to her, every bud of which whispered hope i  rse  ohmt isgm      uldb'h    ado - , e     120        ETNA VANDEMr. to her young heart, and the very air was melody and per- fulne. Soon the ebbing tide of everyday life flowed back again in its wonted channels; yet in her soul was an ecstatic current far sweeter even than life,-the consciousness that she was beloved. Ah! how oft in after years came the wish that she had died in that blessed dream! One day when she was just able to sit up with the as- sistance of numberless pillows, she heard Biddy's voice, saying, "That is the room, ma'am ;" then there was a faint tap upon the door of her apartment, and in response to Marion's cheerful summons, there was a rustling of bro- cade, and the dim light of the convalescent chamber fell upon the rayless splendor of velvets, and a queenly head bent its sweeping graceful plumes, to kiss the white transparent cheek of the invalid, and daintily gloved hands crushed one little thin one in their pressure. It might have been mere fancy, but Grace thought a tear fell upon her face from the brilliant eyes bent in tenderness upon her. Still holding the transparent hand in her own, she spoke, though seemingly with much difficulty. "My son "-she pronounced the words with apparent determined effort-c" urged me to visit the Academy for the purpose of seeing a young lady who was ill, whose acquaintance he had formed by the merest chance. He described you very accurately, but did not know your name; so the matron with whom I spoke would not have recog- nized you if I had not reminded her of your illness." She turned to Marion: "You are the daughter of Judge Elwood, of whom I have heard much, although I am sorry to say I have not the honor of his acquaintance. You are very like a dear friend of mine. Have you a brother?" No, madam! I am an only child. Gracie is my sis- ter by adoption." A spasmodic expression of pain passed swiftly over the beautiful face of the lady, and the eyes she bent again   ETNA VANDEMR.        121 upon the sick girl glowed like burning coals. She spoke once more.  "I have vainly stipulated to take you to my home until you shall have recovered more perfectly; they will not tran- scend the limits of custom so far. They seem to imagine it would divert your mind from your studies, which you would certainly find more irksome after a brief season of recreation. However, I shall visit you meanwhile, and when you are able to endure the exercise, we will have a daily drive until you shall be restored to health again." She could have given other reasons than this, why-the little suffering invalid was not taken to her home. There was one whom she did not wish her to meet, and that was he whom she already loved. The stately lady bade Marion a kindly adieu, and kissed the white, passive lips many times; then with- drew, apparently unwilling to take her eyes from Grace's face. Each day brought the kindly friend again, bearing some delicacy of tropical fruits or dainty meats, that might have tempted the appetite of any languishing hypochon- driac. How beautiful and green were the Elysian fields through which they drove! Once they extended their drive as far as Weehawken, and stood upon the spot where so many brave have fallen sacrifice to the baneful system of duelling. How sweetly came the cool breeze rippling over the river, whose surface was all aglow in the sunset as they recrossed. They were frequently taken to the house of Mrs. Vandemir, but only for a short call, and then they never met her son. Their new friend was cold and stately at times, but often passionately tender, and both the young ladies grew very fond of her. Thanks to the delicate at- tenliveness bestowed, coupled with the best medical aid, Grace was soon enabled to resume her school duties. Up- on the privacy of these, Mrs. Vandemir, with true womanly delicacy, forbore to intrude, and consequently the girls, being engrossed with the Commencement preparations and     122        ETNA VANDEMR. rehearsals, rarely saw her now. There was another mo- tive that influenced and impelled her to relinquish the- society of these charming friends, but she dreaded to face it, or admit, even mentally, such a possibility. Time passed on his earth-worn way, strewing flowers and thorns where they in their blindness followed un- heeding. Each winged day lessened those in the calendar allotted to scholastic martyrdom. At length Mrs. Van- demir returned, having decided to win the consent of the principal to the young ladies' visit to her upon the follow- ing afternoon. At the hour stipulated, they found them- selves swiftly borne over the intervening space, to the  Fifth Avenue palace that was her home. A liveried foot- man let down the carriage steps, and they were shown into the lady's elegant boudoir. She greeted them kindly, but her lips trembled visibly as she pressed them upon those of her little favorite, Grace. Ah! those children in heart knew not that this proud woman might have kissed the death-cold lips of any in the brilliant circle of which she was the admired 'Vtrc, and yet no muscle would have relaxed, no convulsive quiver would have held her motion- less when she spoke measured words of condolence, so great,was her self-control even amid the most trying scenes. She was encased in an armor of cynical reserve, that per- mitted no encroachments upon what was hidden in her heart; her womanly feelings were carefully concealed. Cold conventional courtesies were all she vouchsafed to the most ardent who sought more. Her calm, sad dignity awed Marion, but Gracie's heart went out to her in a tide of love and tenderness wholly incomprehensible to the youn g orphan. "Come with me," said she, leading the way to the apartment where a French maid was busily engaged amid clouds of gossamer drapery. "Camille, take the exact dimensions of these young ladies. I am going to have a floral party this evening," she continued, as the nimble 'fingers of the expert Frenhwoman strayed over the -(   ETNA VANDEMR.         123 f beautifully proportioned forms of each, c( and I wish you to grace the occasion with your presence. I have obtained the consent of your teachers, for to-morrow evening. I swill have costumes prepared. You will find it a diversion, without interfering materially with your duties. I hope you will enjoy it."5                  : They thanked her, and returned in time to recite with the closing class. It was a fairy scene that greeted them the following evening, one which neither ever forgot; and though Grace in after years trod mazes of gaiety in foreign courts, yet this May festival was ever the subject of recurrence for sweetest memories. A  halo of romance brooded in- a charmed spell over the sunny hours of her first appear- ance in society. There was a long range of apartments separated by a Corinthian colonnade, brilliantly lighted, and festooned with amaranthine wreaths, .from the prolific conservatory terminating this dazzling array of architectual magnifi- cence and artistic decorations. The assemblage was large, each representing some gem in the floral calendar, classi- fied in botanical order by some symbol in the costume. Thus far the entertainment was of infinite service to the young ladies, who were particularly wedded to this science, and the illustration was practical and beneficial. Thourgh it must be confessed that, in her delicate desire to improve this talent in her friends, Mrs. Vandemir had taxed to the uttermost the energies of some of her fawning coterie, who ransacked vacant craniums in the vain hope of discovering some lingering vestige of Botanic lore; and Monandrian and Monogynic classes and orders wgre tortured beyond their extremest limit, in the vain hope of discovering yet another symbol. Grace wore a robe of tulle, very full, over which fell a tunic of white satin, bordered and festooned with water- lilies. Half-open buds in their creamy whiteness rested jauntily upon her beautiful clustering curls, and full-blown  124        ETNA VANDEMR. lilies drooped gracefully from the1shoulders of the cor- sage. There was an ethereal pallor on the pure white face, which had scarcely recovered its wonted glow of health, that rendered her character of the lily a just appropriation, though excitement lent a strange brilliancy to the hazel eyes. Twice afterwards, once in her more exultant joy, once when the iron hand had crushed her, she looked to Mrs. Vandemir as she did upon that occasion, and the scene came back. Marion was more dazzling in her character of the rose. A crape of blushing pink, a bertha of blonde, and clusters of opening buds. Shining green leaves were woven in a coronet for her fair smooth brow,--the wreath all glis- tening in myriad shining dewdrops. Very radiant and beautiful she was. First on the programme was a series of tableaux, each truthful as real life, and more beautiful than anything of which Marion or Grace had ever read or dreamed. The closing one consisted of the different floral representatives arranged in a group that formed a mammoth bouquet, in which the resolving and arranging    into smaller wreaths was but the work of an instant. Upon airy feet a figure glided, shrouded in gauzy mist, waving a wand from which descended a shower of glittering frost, blight- ing slowly and surely. Each lovely flower drooped its graceful head, faded,--scentless, lifeless. The curtain fell before a spellbound audience. There was an expression of pain on many of the faces. This was a strange caprice of Mrs. Vandemir. Grace, who had not participated in the tableaux, turned to behbold, irf closo conversation with Mr. Hastings, her acquaintance of a few weeks previous. Mrs. Vandemir too perceived him, and led her to a divan at the extreme end of the apartment. He had seen them, how- ever, and coming forward with an arch dazzling smile upon his face, he took her hand with the familiarity of anl old friend and greeted her warmly. Mrs. Vandemir poBke in freezing tones.   H            ETNA VANDEMR.         125 "I thought you had gone West, collecting? My son, Miss Lynton."  There was scathing sarcasm in her tones, and Grace felt it keenly. He bowed to one, speaking meanwhile to the other. Ic True!. Emerson and I started yesterday morning, and proceeded as far as Albany, where we met Mr. Hastings. He informed me that Mrs. Vandemir entertained this evefi- ing, so I took the return train with Hastings and Emers/n, and here we are. I am (ery sorry to have disappointed you with my presence, -with a meaning expression upon his well-formed lips; 'but it has grown within the last twelve months so rare an occurrence for you to throw open your hospitable doors, even to the most select assemblage, that I could not forbear returning to enjoy the fete."  There was a- veiled acrimony in his manner toward her that well accorded with her sarcastic inuendoes. He now addressed Grace. "I am charmed beyond expression to meet you again. I have missed you sadly. Have you entirely recovered?" he said, with a tenderness strangely at variance with his caustic remarks previous. She made some commonplace, confused response, as she accepted his arm for a promenade. Her brain was in a confused, giddy whirl. She was conscious of a series of bewildering emotions and quick succeeding sensations, which she could not analyze.  The frank, chivalrous youth was suddenly transformed into the conventional Adonis of society. He was apparently absorbed in bitter reflection, for during the Airst few turns he did not condescend, to vouchsafe one single observation. His was a   peculiar face. His features were singularly perfect, save that there was a relentless sternness about the mouth which made her shudder; for she felt intuitively, that were those lips set in the inveterate pursuance of a fixed purpose, though all the might and power-of earth were brought into moral  126        ETNA VANDEMR. bearing to resist, he would not turn aside even though he made his pathway of stars, and walked through their glory to the goal of base desire. Or had a thousand hearts, each pulse a world of love for him, lain at his feet, he would have trampled all down ruthlessly, to attain an ob- ject upon which he had set his mind. The greatest man that ever lived, if we measure his ca- pacity by achievements, must have worn just such a look when climbing to that dizzy pinnacle upon a ladder of sub- verted nations. Ah! treading even his own proud heart into the dust, while crushing one that loved him, in pursuance of his alluring phantom! The tide of revolution rose and fell like countless sunlit waves upon the broad bosom of that vast sea of ambition. He had encountered wild storms, always the victor; yet his bark went down at last in gloomy night. Why did memory thrill through her heart, like an electric flash, the thought of this brilliant career, thi lonely heart that loved him to the last, though his hands\ had cast it aside; the going down into obscure darkness of that beauteous "star of destiny"?--for rayless it was at last, shining not upon the desolate rock, his ocean-girded prison,-the lonely remnant of a bright life, and final  hopeless death. How many are there who love in the face of doom, recklessly, defiantly! She shuddered visibly as, the tide of emotion swept through heart and brain. The hand that rested on his arm trembled. He turned his eyes upon hers: the shadow was gone now from his eyes: what a world of passion there was in the misty cerulean depths! Alas! a fatal, resistless power that had lured manyto hope less constancy, and would yet lure many perhaps even more unconscious and unsuspecting than hers. Her own eyes grew radiant in an answering glance. Phantom fear van- ished; her footsteps were firmer now. Ah! she was tread- ing palaces beneath her feet. The world into which she had suddenly been launched-what a beauteous and bliss- ful world it was! Who does not indorse Goethe's doctrine   M X            ETNA VANDEMTR.        127 of "elective affinities," and has not recognized the system as demonstrated in some personal experience? Grace was not aware that there was a sad heart with a great pang piercing its depths, sitting as she had left. her upon the divan,-the wild, brilliant eves watching her every movement. No; bright beams had dazzled her: she did not intercept the lightning glance that passed be- tween mother and son,-deprecating appeal on her part, resolute defiance on his. His silence was tantalizing,  and at length sile spoke. c( I thought I heard you speal of Mr. Emerson? I once knew a Charlie Emerson. He lived at our house at the Glen. It has been-let me sea-five years since I have seen him. He came to New York. Perhaps it is the same. He left us about eight years since to attend Commercial College. When last I saw him, he spent a season with us at Wilton. I wonder if he would know me now!" She spoke with ardent simplicity, musingly: the mem- ory of the bright eyes had charmed her back into the vista of youth again. How often in our lives a twofold destiny is presented to us, and we feel the necessity of separating the light fromn the darkness in the chaos surrounding, and that, too, when we have neither wisdom nor foresight to choose. Mr. Vand emir answered, recalling Grace from her reverie. "' Charles Emerson is my father's book-keeper; he has lived with us since he finished his collegiate course. He came .from Lewis county, Pennsylvania. I presume he is the friend to whom you refer. Ah! here he is now! Charley!" It was he! there was no mistaking those dark eyes. They and the briglt face were his, though   bearded and otherwise changed nowi. Mr. Vandemir rather un- graciously resigned her, and they were soon conversing familiarly of old times.  "I thougrht you had entirely forgotten me, Grace, or 128        ETNA VANDEMR. ignored the existence of a drygoods-clerk, in this great world of New York. I met you several times walking with Marion, and neither of you vouchsafed more than a passing glance; and H-you know I am proud, and would not intrude myself upon your notice or invite recognition." "And is it wonderful that we should not have recognized the bearded man, who was a smooth-faced boy, striving vainly for the honor imnperiale, when he left us? Besides, you have not visited Wilton for so long, we did not think you cared for us now." "Cared for you! Oh! Grace!" She trembled. There was that in his voice which thrilled her as even the glance of those blue eyes had not done. She trembled slightly, and turned her face away. He mis- interpreted the motion; he always did misinterpret acts of hers; he never understood her, although they were children together. He was confused, and proposed they should join the dancers in another suite of apartments, amid the flashing lights and sparkling jewels. The master of the Terpsichorean art, in Madan{ Des- moulin's establishment, had pronounced Grace perfect in her waltzing; and when the birdlike notes of Weber's last, unsurpassed by any other, swelled on the perfumed pulses of air, with that artless manner which prudes affect, but which belongs alone to the novice, she accepted her companion's proffered arm, and was .soon whirling in sweet conjunction with the harmonizing strains. A sumptuous repast over, Mrs. Vandemir, thinking her charges had remained long enough, ordered the carriage, and bade them a kind, affec- tionate adieu. When they were ready to depart, Eugene and Charlie Emerson assisted them, and despite Marion's haughty exclamation of surprise and the angry flashlrof the dark eyes bent upon him, Eugene -pressed Grace-s -hand to his lips, before he closed the carriage door. Until the close of the term, notwithstanding various repeated expostulations, a continual battery of billets doux was kept up between them. Marion often opposed this so   ETNA VANDEMR.        129 strenuously that Grace whs driven into an ambuscade of raillery, to conceal her indignation rather than to defend herself.                       ... "You are only jealous," said she, c" because he has the audnacity, in the face of exalted taste, to prefer my milk- and-water physiognomy, with its cold grey optics, to a cer- tain peerless brunette, with midnight hair, glowing-cheeks, and flashing eyes." "No!" answered Marion somewhat tartly, her voice trembling with the emotion she experienced in performing what she considered a duty, though a very painful one; I trust he may always exhibit so marked a preference for the child whose love he seems so desirous of winning. I hope you may never find him less ardent tha n now." "I will trust him," retorted Grace, with flashing eyes. , I believe him the soul of truth and honor." Well-Marion knew then the Strength and power of a concentrated spell, that earth in its combined force might not break.' Her tears flowed silently for a while, and then she steadied her voice to speak again. c Grace, do you remember when we were in Eugene Vandemir's home-the last scene in the tableaux?  'The blight that withered those beautiful flowers in their glory seemed to envelope and overshadow you like a prophetic doom; and you stood so near, all unconsciously near, dar- ling! I felt then like falling on my knees before you, and imploring you to go out from this influence, and to cast this love from your heart. I could not tell you why, -but I have a prophetic assurance that it will never make you happy. You are too young to fetter your soul with its chains. Oh! give it up, darling! give it up! will you not?"  There was no response;A but Marion saw that her lips were set in an unspoken resolve. And she saw withbit ter regrets that her efforts were nought, that she- had vainly sacrificed her friendship; for there was a-bitter' feeling growing up inll Grace's heart toward her aid she 130       ETNA VANDEMR. could only wait patiently until time and sorrow hathridged the chasm that had suddenly opened between them. One evening late in June, 2Marion had laid: aside her Illiad, having completed her translation, and stood look- ingrr out upon the still quiet beauty of the midnight molon- light. Liquid beams fell in silvery waves upon long rowe of stately evergreens, that were ranged in systematic splendor upon the grounds surrounding the charmed walls whelre she had passed so many hours pleasantly in the pur- suit of 'knowledge. The golden moments offered upon a mute shrine would soon yield their triple harvest in the great world spread out so calmly beneath her window. It lay sleeping there, still nature, and its living formls lay wrapt in tranquil repose. One could scarcely dream what a tempest of storms was smothered in its subdued hush, or of concealed poison in the flowers whose incense was Dwaft- ed upon airy pinions in tkheevening's breath. The hour of emancipation was come. She was to go forth into the great world of which she knew nought, save through the medium of books and fancy,-no longer a silent spectator led and directed by the will of others, but a woman, free to exercise her own will, a participator in its gay scenes. She would soon test her bright visions. She wondered if, in her intercourse with the gay world, she would ever love any one as she had loved her orphan friend. Grace had always been wayward, and had given her much care; yet with all this she felt irresistably impelled to love her,- much, however, as we love the sunbeams that scorch us. -. She had stormed the citadel of Marion's heart, and made captive its brightest treasure. There was a pained ex- pression upon her face as she wound her arms about Grace, and kissed the glowing cheek. Grace endured but did not respond to the caresses. Ah! what a fatal blow we can strike a woman's heart through the man she loves! Commencement day arrived. The girls, though in a flutter of excitement, acquitted themselves honorably, re- ceived their diplomas, and were on the point of leaving    ' .5  - @  ETNA VANDEMR.        131 the hall, when they were arrested by Mrs. Vandemir, whom they had not previously seen. She was leaning upon her son's arm, who looked very handsome. W as it hler simple undertones of greeting that made Grace .m ble so visibly? Mfarion insisted that Mrs. Vandemlr should remain to meet her mother and father, who had arrived on the irevious afternoon. She refused gently but firmly, promising, however, to call again on the .morrow, which she failed to do. iMarion imagfined she dreaded the /- expressions of gratitude which she knew would be shower- ed upon her when they heard of her kindness to Grace. When she did not come, Marion thought it best not to mention her name to her father, as it might in some degree predispose him in favor of Eugene, and she trusted much to his tact and influence with Grace in this matter. ' She had no idea Grace would oppose him. That night, bright dreams visited the pillow of each, and on the morrow they were to return home. Grace smiled, as his last words came to her while she sleptx Ah! happy child, dreamen! Thou knowest not what the awakening may be! God shield thee! Return home! There is magic in those words. Return home to hearts that love us, to weep sorrow away on a gentle mother's breast. How balmy the sweet breezes are! How bright the diamond dews Upon spring roses that blossomed for us in a fairy time long ago! Remembered smiles greet us: gentle words fall like Eolian music upon our hearts, in all the dear familiar melody of other days, as we linger in the olden haunts. With outstretched arms they cordially invite us to rest and peace; and with fond lingering we keep ecstatic trysts, while our souls are lost in sweet dreamings of a time long past, when youth and joy were with us. May all who wander , with feeble footsteps o'er the world's wilderness," know the bliss of a final return home,--to a home whose children never stray through deserts of earth,-whose circle is unbroken ever, and forever.   CHAPTER     VIII. MARION'S UNION WITH MANFRED HASTINGS - EUGENE'S VISIT TO GRACE-MYSTERY-GRACE S PARTING FROM CHARLIE EMERSON A PLEASANT family group was seated in the quaint drawing-room at Wilton, the evening previous to Marion's marriage. Grace sat near to Judge Elwood, who with kind fatherly hand was smoothing her soft curls. Marion occupied the piano-stool, edifying and entertaining a most appreciative auditor. Mrs. Elwood sat in a large arm- chair in the recess of a bay window. It was Marion's last evening at home, save as a visitor, and she felt very sad to remember that her child was hers no longer. There was a gentle ring at the doorbell, and a servant entered bearing a note for Grace. "lie is waiting for a reply," said the man. "Say to him, then, that I am disengaged, and will be pleased to see the gentleman in the morning." ( Whom?" inquired Judge Elwood sternly, as he fixed his cold grey eyes upon her face, with an expression that implied surprise that she would dare consent to receive any one, without first consulting him. Marion looked pained and,alarmed, but Grace answered fearlessly and firmly, "Mr. Vandemir, sir." She was terrified at the effect of her words. She had anticipated an outhurst of anger, but was unprepared for the start, and the convulsion that shook his every limb. He sank back in his suddenly vacated chair, with a face white at that of a corpse, with a groan that might have come 132   ETNA VANDEMR.        133 from the depths of Shadow Land, so hollow was it. He rested his head wearily upon his hands. H ow very long it was since he had heard that name, and yet what power it had, to affect him so strangely! It was singular that Mrs. Elwood manifested no sur- prise. She said it was nothing, and begged that Mr. Hastings would not distress himself unnecessarily: she assured him there was no occasion for alarm. It was only one of the sudden attacks of illness to which he was sub- ject: he would be better soon, she was well assured. So saying, she assisted him to arise from his seat, and, as some one under the influence of a horrible nightmare, he withdrew. The struggle of that night, none knew: it i was one of many similar ones, that had silvered the old man's hair, and furrowed his cheeks. There were no traces left, however, for the morning to decipher. He arose, well and composed as usual, and when Mr. Van- demir called to pay his respects to the family of Grace, he received him with equable politeness, and his hospitable "Welcome to Wilton," the genial smile and cordial grasp of the hand, were such as he had bestowed upon Mr Hastings. He had frankly confessed to Mr. Hastings his desire, if possible, to promote a union between Grace and Charlie Emerson, his father's protege, for whom she had entertained a romantic attachment in childhood. The manifest emotion of her father had disturbed Marion very much, taken in connection with a discovery made that afternoon; and it was with pain' and terror that she evoked in her mind that which seemed so profound a mys- tery, so vague and indistinct a connection. She had been walking in the garden, thinking of Man- fred Hastings, for whose love she would leave the dear home of her childhood; and henceforth her place would be by his sid. One of those sudden summer storms had swept through the grounds devastatingly, and convulsed her beautiful maple groves, to which she- had just bidden adieu. A sudden gush of wind scattered great drops .  4-.     134        ETNA VANDEMR. through the air in quivering sheen. It was as if two parted clouds had suddenly met in fond embrace, and wept for joy in greeting. In her hasty retreat to the house, she had observed the large window at the farthest end of the long corridor on which the sleeping apartments opened, unclosed, and a torrent of rain pouring in on the rich car- pet. She passed in, ran quickly and closed the shutter. As she walked slowly back, she involuntarily paused in front of an open door, as a brilliant lightning flash revealed to her the form and features of her mother, sitting in a large chair of faded brocatelle within the centre of an apart- ment which during her life had never been disclosed to her view. Her mother's expression of voiceless despair struck her to the heart, as she sat there mute in the grey tempest light, her hands folded in an attitude of deep abstraction. Marion forebore to intrude upon the sanctity of her grief, whatever it might be; though articles of furniture and decoration were revealed to her more vividly with every flash succeeding. Her eyes rested first upon a gentleman's rosewood dressing-case. There were Chinese vases of exquisite'design and execution upon a tall ebon mantel, over which hkung a portrait. There were faded scentless flowers in the vases: a magnificent silver-mounted gun and its trappings rested upon a coat-rack, over which was thrown carelessly a huntsman's suit of black trimmed with scarlet, a velvet cap with scarlet tassel, and a brilliant scarf. She turned her eyes by an impulse from the sur- roundings, so mystic and fantastic, to the face of the suf- ferer. What was the blinding storm to the raging turmoil in her breast? Answer ye who whose hearts thus linger in old remembered haunts, in vacant places, while your souls have gone forth vainly searching for a broken idol, silent lips mourning the uncertain fate of a homeless wan- derer upon earth. For, alas! in the fireside music of many homes there are echoless strains-missing links in the electric chains by which we are darkly bound to the fated rack of existence. That mother could have laugh-   ETNA VANDEMR.        1 3 ingly mocked the tempests that swayed with such fearful power the stately elms that were Wilton's pride, and bowed low the willows on the river's brink. Who would have guessed that in this sunny home there was the echo of a footfall that had strayed througlpyears i   long and weary as the paths he trod. And yet, where meridian beams scorched torrid climes, or where arctic seas kissed polar strands, he had found no resting-place, save perchance a nameless grave in a foreign land. For of Elwood should have been written, murderer  M arion stood transfixed, speechless! she had heard in- definite allusions to some one who was supposed to have distressed her father, and who was the acknowledged cause of a long, tedious fit of illness, from which he never wholly recovered. Though she remembered periodical or accidental recurrences of these spasms, yet the subject was invariably avoided by her mother, who seemed disposed to treat the matter lightly. The servants in the family were tried and true, and there was not one who would have risked Judge Elwood's displeasure in the mentionof a name which he in his wrath had sworn never to hear again. Would she, his daughter, be less faithful than they? To gratify an abstract attribute of curiosity, would she reopen wounds that years had scarred over? Their love had shielded her from this knowledge. Herintuitive delica forbade her to intrude upon the sanctity of her lmther's grief. She decided at once never to refer -to the discovery to which chance had led her. Though in truth there was nought in the fantastic surroundings to engender the sus- picion of crime. It was only her mother's tears that had induced this  feeling. Possibly, too, it was this that had drawn the threads of silver through the brown locks, and seamed her faers brow with  wrin kles. The record was traced per- haps by thi ingratitude more strong than traitor's arms, of a "thankless child."     136        ETNA A NDEMR. Marion was quick to observe that the room wans free from dust. Ah! yes! a mother's love, wild, ferv-et, un- changing to the end, was manifest in the ever-watchful affection with which she guarded her treasures,- the me- morials of her boy. She remembered that Mrs. Vande- mir had inquired concerning her brother, and her expres- sion of pain when told that she had none. It was all like a weird dream; soon to be forgotten, however, as she went belo^,stairs and rejoined Mr. Hastings, whom she had left reading in the library What marvel, that in the light of her beauteous love she ceased to muse upon this dark phase of existence? Sin and expiation by suffering were mythical to her, unsound- ing words in the vocabulary of practical terms. She knew tlem not, and hers was one of the few destinies not doomed to learn these bitter truths. Heaven and earth wore a smile bright and beauteous upon AMarion's bridal day. It was a wedding of souls, of hearts, of hands. Flowers sported their loveliest hues; sunlight caressed the river's waves with a fond lingering sheen; with sweet melody and undulating grace they rose and fell, sporting floods of quivering light. Hearts never breathed truer vows than they that gave their brightness back, for they were never broken until death chilled the lips that made them. The turrets gleamed whiter, and prismatic hues from the rainbow-tinted window-panes came through the soft velvety folds of damask upon the rich tapestry that covered the floors. The sweet bride placed her hand in his, and went with Manfred Hastings to his Southern home. Hiow often have we grown sick at heart at beholding the desecration and perversion of this, God's holy institution! How many prostitute heart and soul upon the altar by false vows! Daily we see young wives and husbands, loving and beloved, bartering the calm fireside joy, the se- rene home-life, for the failing and uncertain pleasures of   ETNA VANDEMR.,        137 worldly homage. Ah! it is only when they have drunk deeply of draughts the world calls pleasure, when each brioght thought has its attendant shadow, that the stifled- wail finds utterance, imploring vainly What was once cast aside as worthless. MayGod's choicest blessings here and hereafter be those of the friend who penned these words: "Wealth, honor; fame, and all the gay world calls plea- sure, cannot compensate for the smallest moiety of the ex- alted esteemr, confidence and love which should exist in the marriage relation."  We have seen bright lips smi- lingly take upon them -vows to which heart gave no re- sponse, in obedience to parental ordinance, for sordid gold or position sacrificing their children. Well we knew then that her heart, , over deselt wave and mountain," had - flown to where its wdo was, buried henceforth beneath the crumbling ruin of her hopes.  Many times, too, amid the glare and glitter of false conventional life, have we heard the weary quick-drawn sigh that revealed all. But not alone in this, brief instant of forgetfulness and sway of voiceless sorr'ow was seen the record of pain and long-suf- fering: when. oft upon the world's deluded ear the merry laugh sung out, we shudder at knowing that it was but the spasmodic offspring of a heart-groan, which gilded honm- age and expiation of secret tears were impotent to stifle. Happy those who go into the presence of the great, Judge of hearts with this recorded vow unbroken in let- -ter and in spirit. How often is the patient ear tortured with canting  sentiment, that miserable substitution for the strong pure love of theshuman heart, and subsequent utter disregard of the divine ordinance to which they sacrilegiously gave audience. There will be a  fearful record of broken troths, garnered for the   resurrection morning. A weary feeling of desolation swept through the hearts of those parents, as they saw the carriage thus freiglted borne swiftly over the gravelled road to the Lewisburg depot.  133        ETNA VANDEMR.  / "We shall be so lonely now!" sighed Mrs. Elwood, as she walked slowly up the marble steps. 6 Yes!" answered her husband, echoing her sigh. c But Gracie is left to us. You will not leave us, will you, darling?" He laid his head upon the soft brown curls as spoke. ' Oh! no!" she answered quickly; with a furtive trou- bled glance at Mr. Vandemir, who, with arms folded on his chest and head bowed, was walking backward and for- ward upon the white pebbly pavement. In that brief gqance, with a keen sensation of pain, he read all, and knew that Grace's happiness was henceforth bound up in one whose family head was the ruthless enemy of the Elwoods. Must this be? -Was there required at his hands this sacrifice? Ah! it seemed too fear- ful an expiation, that he should be forced to give his only remaining treasure, so dear to his guardian father heart, into the keeping of ruthless hands. It was a bitter, bitter reflection. 4'Let us walk to the old home," said Grace, as, toying with the ribbon of her straw flat, ohe took the path that led through the maple grove to Luna Glen. Slowly they went over the shadowy road until the moss-grown caves came in sight. Grace uttered an exclamation of pleasure. "Do you not come here often?" said Mr. Vandemir, noting the phases of feeling that, like April clouds and sunshine, chased each other over the changing features. "Yes! very frequently; but we have recently been so much engaged with preparations for Marion's bridal, that I have not had much time to call my own, since I returned from schiol. Though," she added less buoyantly, "I presume it is better thus, for an unwonted sadness creeps over me when I come. I sadly miss my own home idols. They are very kind to me; yet I love this gloomy pile far better than the gilded splendor of Wilton; and often after a three-days' absence I return here with much the same feeling that one would experience who returns from   ETNA VANDEMR ,        139 a pilgrimagc out into a gTreat world, whose charms are onlly sufficient 'or the dav and hour, and rests him from the scorching sun-rays of other clinmes on some grassy hil- lock,-sweet breezes, with gentle pulses of perfuime, throb- bing wsith te melody of long silent voices, which steal upon ji: 1him with all the tender cadence of bygone days." lHe smiled a calm, cynical smile. "You grow eloquent," remarked he at length; " though your feeling is rather the offspring of sentiment than profound rhetoric.". His tones were low and musical. More than once they had made her heartstrings thrill and quiver strangely. The feeling stole over her now in a dreamy reverie. Softly and sweetly it swelled up in harmony with Eolian breezes, from the hillside and valley upon which sunshine and ? ii J shadow lay sleeping. For one brief instant she bowed her head, while the purifying, elevating spell swept through her girlish heart; and then, with the crimson glow of a sunset sky upon cheek and brow, she saucily shook the curls from her face, and glanced-upward to the benthrow as she answered him. "And admitting the fact, Sir Stoic, is the exercise of that fascinating  Demosthenean attribute confined bxclusive- ly to you Lords of creation? Are we, poor descendants of Eve, doomed to be voiceless as Madame de Stael, who called down the Corsican thunderbolt, because she chanced to tamper with some cherished state schemes or unmasked an artful policy,--doomed like her to perpetual silence, or banishment? "Do' you not recognize an inherent quality in the heart, which often amid scenes of gilded worship in everyday existence iml-els us to turn wearily back to childhood's gods again, to find surcease of harrowing care in sifting again the diamond sands in youth's treasury of golden moments,--the hours that upon sunny wings flow so swift. ly by, and will never come aain "said she with t sigh.            i   i  heith a soft     "O        ETNA VANDEMR He glanced down into her face as if striving to read her thoughts, through the clear wells of soul so filled with troubled reflections. "And do you sigh for the sunny hours of your past," said lhe, "now that you are but just awakened to the con- sciousness that you are no longer a child? I doubt not, the feelings of which you speak are common to every re- flective mind; yet many upon the score of duty are com- pelled to banish dreams such as these, as the direst foes of endeavor,-whose Rubicon once crossed, we must not pause to look back and sigh for the shadowy vales that are shut from our gaze. Though we oftentimes pause to remember how rarely sweet the flowers that blossomed for us then, we do not remember that, could we grasp them again, we should find them all scentless and withered, the frail semblance of what once was fair. Remember Long- fellow's reminder- "' There were no birds in last year's nests.' The land of romance once passed, we should not turn back repiningly. Always forward!  Make the most of litfe." She could not tell why, but there was something in the reckless tones in which he spoke these words that cut her to the heart. Alas for those who have no past to which they go back, if not for hope, for strength and memory  Very recklessly those walk who have broken this golden link. It is through vistas of the past that we go back to Bethlehem, to Calvary, and back to God. He laid his soft white hand upon the rusty iron gate as she thought of his words. After much persuasion it yielded to his vice-like grasp, though groaning and creaking at a disturbance so unusual. There was strength and power in those wax-like fingers! Slowly and silently as though treading enchanted ground, they walked up the neatly swept pavement, the grass burst- ing up in emerald strips between the diamond-shaped   [JJ F       ETNA YANDEMR.        141 bricks. With a sweet childish impulse, Grace threw her arms around the old housekeeper's neck. She was a kind old woman, living quite alone with her son. There was no need of other help. Judge Elwood cultivated the farm lands with those of Wilton, and garnered the revenue for the orphan. "I thought my little Gracie had forgotten me," said the old lady, with a shake in her voice and tears in her eyes. -"It is three months since you came back, and you have not been to see me before." "Then you were mistaken, Aunt Faith; I have thought often of coming, but we have been so constantly employed in preparations for the wedding, that I could not find time. I assure you we enjoyed a perfect saturnalia of such un- substantial materials as satin, blonde, orange-blossoms, etc., scattered in most bewildering confusion. Even the bride- groom elect was suriendered to the bliss or misery of his own reflections, or the more questionable mercy of my guardian's entertainment. Why were you not there, Aunt Faith. And how is Alec?" And Grace, suddenly check- ing her voluble strain, introduced Mr. Vandemir. "Oh! he is well, thank you, child; and I did not wish to go amongst all those'fine folks. But Gracie, you and the gentleman come in to tea with me." "Thank you, Auntie; it seems so sweet to come home again!" Grace had never known a happier half-hour, than when she sat by her lover's side in the low-browed kitchen where the old lady's homely meal was spread. His face, too, was radiant with happiness. The New York fashionable had Anver partaken of a repast in the halls of pride with such a glow in his heart. Alec Morton soon came in.  Grace sprang up, and, taking, his sun-browned hand in hers, introduced him to her city friend, and asked him if he were not sorry she was come back, as he had never been near to pay his respects. IIis answer was confused, and, while he sat to     "2        ETNA YANDEMR. his tea, they proceeded to make a tour of the rooms. Grace danced hither and thither, the merry-hearted child that she was, now indulging expressions of joy, now of regret. She ran her fingers over the keys of the grand piano in the sitting-room, and tears gushed to her eyes as harrowing discords greeted her; but she smiled through them with that rare versatility which was her greatet charm. "The soul of melody has departed," she said, "'leaving but the mortal tenement. It was my mother's."3 Sh/. closed the instrument softly. How long since your mother died?" said he, pursuing her thought. "I was an infant. My father died soon after I was born, in New York. I have never known," continued she artlessly, after a pause, " why they did not bury my mother in Wilton churchyard, where father lies. I asked Aunt Faith once, and she said that mother went away across the water before she died, and that she had incurred Grandpa Lynton's very serious displeasure by marrying her cousin Francis. It was always a kind of mystery to me. My guardian professes to know nothing about it, and bade me not ask him again." She said all this, catching at the boughs of dark- fir that bent over the old-fashioned portico front. They bade the old lady adieu, promising to call again on the follow- ing day. She stood looking after them with a strange blending of fondness and sadness. "c I suppose that fine gentleman will take our Gracic away," said she, as she returned to Alec. He made no response, but sat with bowed head, never once raising his eyes, as they passed down the path to Wilton in the falling twilight, in the first beams of the rising moon. They paused by the brook, as it smiled its first silver murmur in greeting, to the gleaming cycle mid-heaven, that beamed upon it, and the churchyard through which it passed. With a feeling of sadness she saw how the lichens were forming on the tomb-   ETNA VANDEMR.        143 stones of her dead loved ones. Turning a moment to the Elwoods' monument, they again passed on their way. In crossing over the old foot-bridge Grace told him of the strange image that so often during their childish sports (hers and Marion's) had sat upon the rustic seat under the hemlock, waiting them, with wild sad eyes. This circum- stance had almost escaped her memory, while at school. This walk in the gloaming had brought it back again. "I suppose it was some object of nominal charity, seek- ing at your hands the dispensation of fairy gifts," answered he gallantly. "No, no!" answered Grace; cshe did not want our gold: she said she only wished to rest awhile." Then there was a pause more eloquent than words, ere he told her of his love, and asked her to be his wife ;- told her of his hopes and plans for the future. And in the enjoyment of that confidence which is so sweet with one e love, they exchanged mutual vows. "Faithful unto death!" A frail shadow crossed the moon's disk as these words-- whose echo lived through her life, a mocking sound, cast- ing a shadow darker than that which veiled the' fair face of the queen of night-were spoken in the stillness. She raised her eyes; a cold shudder thrilled througlh her, as they rested where the shadows were darker still, upon the crumbling stone ather faher's grave. It was astrange betrothal, there amid mute decaying records of what once had been. He as usual looked onward, never heeding these voiceless reminders, where the turmoil of hope and fear should be hushed amid the brooding silence. Bat no shadow rested now in her heart-love, joy, and hope in their joint reign supreme; no ghouls crossed the pathway to Wilton; and she bounded up the marble steps. The scene was one of oriental luxuriance. Prismatic hues from the chandeliers within, painted- gorgeous fret- work upon the grass-plats beneath the low windows They cltered the dlrawin-room. She blushed and caught her  I     "4        ETNA VANDEMR. breath in confusion, as she encountered the earnest search- ing eyes of Charlie Emerson, who came forward to meet her. "You here!" said Mr. Vandemir; "happy to meet you" -shaking hands with his father's clerk. What tides of burning hatred were encompassed beneath the icy conven- tionalismsbetween those two, unknown even to the woman they loved.  The evening passed pleasantly enough. Eugene took his departure on the following morning, without even speaking to Judge Elwood of his engagement, and leav- ing to Emerson an open field. He scorned even the sem- blance of competition. He was too well aware of his own strength and power to admit the possibility of rivalry. Grace remembered her promise to Aunt Faith to call the following day, and, thinking that Charlie would like to see his old friend, she invited him to accompany her. The old lady was charmed to meet him, pressing his hand and recalling his mischievous pranks as a boy, and how much they missed him when he went away to be educated as a book-keeper. She also spoke of how Gracie, then a merc girl, had wept, and refused to be comforted at his departure. They passed into the parlor, all aglow in the morning sunshine that came in smilingly through the east windows. He spoke rather abruptly, still pondering Aunt Faith's words. "Grace, you would not weep nlow, if I should go away, even though you thought you should never see me again, would you?"There was blended hope and bitterness in his tones. "c Be sure I would, Charlie. Why do you ask me this? You know it," answered she sententiously. The bitterness was gone from his heart: hope came up in his face. c Grace," said he again, tremblingly, after a pause, toying meanwhile nervously with his chatelaine, "I must   ,g sETNA VANDEMR.               145 return to-morrow. I have obtained your guardian's per- mission to seek your hand. I have no fortune to offer you, CGrace; but, God helping me, I will accumulate one. 6C This love for you here in my heart is powerful. I have no ambition save vour happiness, which will promote my own."3 Hlad he whose love had won her felt thus? Sihe seized his hand; tears sprang to her eyes. She was no flirt, and grieved at the necessity of inflictink pain. k She spoke hurriedly, tremblingly. " Charlie I iloved you once, when we were happy chil- dren. I hae told you so again and again. Ah! love you still, as a dear friend, a brother; but my heart and hand are promised to another. If I had known earlier of your love, it might have been different; but now it is too late." We hold it a sacred truth, that love in some measure alwlays begets its corresponding sentiment; and if man's love be firm and true, he can always win for himself the an- swering love of any woman under heaven, all things else being equal, and her heart disengaged. "Oh, Charlie!" continued she passionately, 6i won't you be my brother, my friend?" There was an eager pleading expression in the young face that looked down into his own; but he turned him away from its mute appeal, and spoke so sorrowfully that it seemed sternness. "No, Grace; I will not deceive you, and I cannot de- ceive myself. I can never descend from the proud emi- nence I once attained, to become simply yourfriend. 'T is a cruel thing this you ask of me! It was a fatal mistake of mine; but now I go my way, and you shall never look upon my face again. With a bitter aching heart I go out from these scenes in which our love blossomed, flourished, and-died." She bent her brow upon the small white hand, and wept passionately. She had not yet, seen sufficient of tho                 ,  "6         ETNA VANDEMR. world to learn effectually its lessons of self-control. She had never felt the necessity of summoning that mighty ally, pride, to her aid in such scenes. He was moved. I-e took her passive liands in his.  The expression of sternness had been replaced by one of calm  endurance and firm resolve-the resolve that achieves a triumph of the holier, higher attributes of love, counting rno cost, no sacrifice that might promote the happiness of its object. Oh! why did she not love him, since to the world's end she could have trusted him? "Yes, Grace, it shall be as you say," said he with trembling lips. "I will be your fricnd-though you can never be less to me than you now are; and remember- "' If the world should prove but a fruitless thing, And worshippers leave thy shrine, Then my love were but a gift for thee, And this strong deep heart were thine.'"   4?  , - CHAPTER IX. GRnACE'S MARRIAGE - EUGENE'S PARENTS-- MAIRIED, NOT : v MATED- OUTWARD BOUND. IT wasa strange,nforml bridal, that of Grace an Eugene. The golden-eyed autumn had come and gone. The hectic flush had faded from the russet leaves, and withered capsules scatterel their seeds in a shrill Novem- ber blast. The .first winter snow heaped field and high- way  "With a silence deep and white." The frozen crust, in the glow of a crimson sun, glittered like diamond sparks in the clear frosty air. Judge Elwood had violently opposed the marriage, but seeing both so determined, he expressed a wish that it should take place at Wilton. He did not wish the daughter of his old friend to leave her home to be wed. "Be -very kind to her," said he, falteringly,-for very dearly had he learned to love her. May God deal with me as I with her! and may iH desert me if I fail in any duty that I owe to my fair young bride!" lHe spoke from the heart then; none doibted him. In the bitter years that followed of temptation and fall, both in sorrowful agony oft recalled his words. How mighty they were then!--thrilling in their strength and power. How like things of air they afterwards grew to him, even before conscience died, when the siren tempter's enchant-    "9        ETNA VANDEMR. mcnt was nearing him, and the Circean meshes were growing-about his heart! Did not some warning voice in the hollow tones of prophecy whisper of the future? Did not some weird finger of fate point with unerring foresight adown the dim vista of years of desolation and estrangement? Did not some phantom of change prefigure that hour of wild misery- "When they between whose severed souls, Once in close union tied, A gulf is set, a current rolls, Forever to divide"? Why did she shudder and grow pale when called upon to make the responses-her lips mute as though death's ice was upon them? In her heart there was the confused humming murmur of discordant voices. She saw a lone woman standing upon the dizzy brink of a mighty precipice, her garments drenclhd with the fearful raging storm, with arms outstretched over the fearful chasm. In a mo- js  nment the vision passed ; yet Marion, who stood near to her on that occasion, never forgot the wild imploring look she gave her, the lightning glance of terror: it was fresh in her memory still, in the days when that shadowed horror was fulfilled to the uttermost. For one brief instant she saw it on the face of her friend, as she stood by her dying bed. It was, she knew, her last mortal struggle with her old enemy; but it passed away as now, and a far sweeter peace then came after it. Eugene's mother came down from New York to be pres- ent at the marriage of her son. There was something in the face of Mrs. Vandemir that strangely attracted Mrs. Elwood. She longed for a more intimate knowledge of her. They remained but a few hours at Wilton. After the ceremony they proceeded to New York, where they would spend the winter. It was their intention to sail early in the following spring.    'i v47ETNA VANDEMR.              149 Grace soon learned to love Eugene's mother very dearly, and spent many happy hours in her society; though there was an atmosphere of coldness in her home that made even attempted gaiety oppressive.  His father she soon learned heartily to abhor. He a purse proud aristocrat, possessing no claim to position save his gold. He was coarsely arrogant, insultingly I pompous, acknowledging no claims to distinction based upon intrinsic merit, intellectual, moral, or social worth. He drove his car of Juggernaut over the prostrate form of the weak; he would refuse the starving beggar at his door the crumbs that fell from his sumptuous board, and yet would have expended half his earthly possessions to gratify an ungodly, vindictive revenge. Eugene was his youngest, and now his only son, by his marriage. His first wife lived but a few months after her son's death, mourning him sadly: she was a sis, ter of Mrs. Emington. This relationship perhaps influ- enced Mrs. Vandemir's aunt to solicit the alliance which she finally negotiated between himself and her niece and adopted child. His son had been reared as sau larents are apt to rear children, not so much in extreme indul- gence, as absence of restraining influences; mental or moral. He was handsome, exercising most cruel tyranny over the weaker sex, often luring them to certain doom, until, with the most supreme indifference, he saw their hearts quivering and trembling at his feet. And this with the nonchalance and dignity of a prince-the inimit- able manner which Grace mistook for innate conscious- ness of superior nobility. Not one of the brilliant coterie to which he was attached would have for an instant enter- tained the idea of his deliberate trifling: such an asser- tion would most certainly have lacerated his high-toned sensibilities wonderfully. Grace soon, however, perceived his habits of equivocation and dissembling in affairs of the affections, with mingled pain and terror. Mrs. Vandemir had changed little since we saw her      upon her marriage night, thirteen years previous. There were a few silver threads in her raven hair, yet there was still the fearful brilliancy in her eyes that we saw the year previous, in her meetilng with Grace, that told of ardor unquenched, of latent fire unsubdued, by the callous incubus to whom she was yoked. This union appeared to Grace in the light of perplexing sacrilege. Was marriage an indispensable requisite, a necessity rather than exalted privilege, that woman should immolate herself upon an altar of convenience? Could compulsion so entirely anni- hilate that divine gift, free agency, as to cause feeble wo- men, strong in nought save love and its cotemporary endurance, to bind thus their limbs upon a rack of linger- ing torture? Or, more dreadful still, was doom the im- pelling and irresistible influence? Fearful word! How mysterious an import it conveys! -embodying in its compre- hensive significance all we " know or dream or fear," of predestined mortal anguish. How vaguely terrific when uttered in connection with death, and eternity! Heaven pity thlose who are subjected to its influence in the con- summation of unholy nuptials! Better far the doom of death, than an unhallowed marriage bond- "The rock, the vulture, and the chain, AJll that the proud can feel of lmiai: The agony they do not show, The suffocating sense of woe, Which speaks but in its loneliness." There are emotions in such a union that go down into the echoless tomb, voiceless, as they have lived. There are chords in the human heart that yield no melody to the touch of unhallowed fingers, flowers of affection that waft no incense back to their native heaven, but lie witlhered, ungatheredl, beneath this moral Upas-tree of doom. Oh! we are sick to the soul of the hollow mockery of these things, which should be held so sacred. Imagine coarse lands of lust fettering thlle golden pinions of the eagle of thlouglht!-conmmingilling the diamond of pure nature with   the dross of base sensuality! Something of this Grace recogonized and realized in contemplating the relations between her mother and father-in-law. It made her mniser- able. There were no plebeian jarrings. Mrs. Vandemir at least was far too proud for this: she never stooped to mingle in commonplace revilings, though her husband often taxed and tried her to the uttermost. From these circum- stances, he became especially obnoxious to Grace. She had met Charlie Emerson sometimes on the public promenades, once at the opera, since her residence in New York, but he had never called to pay his respects in per- son. She felt wounded; she did not ,once imagine that he might not yet feel equal to such an ordeal. Spring was abroad in a northern land. Balmy breezes blew up softly from the bay, and outward-bound vessels unfurled snow-white sails, saluting sea and sky, when the land was visible no longer. Upon one of these Eugene and his bride took passage, one bright cheery morn, Upon the broad deck beneath the blue bending heaven they stood; his arm was about her slight form, and she looked up into his face. Love, strong and deep, sufficient unto all, was in her heart for him. Even then she thought not of the one, borne down, lonely, that was left behind, and the passionate vain dream that was his who mourned her.    CHAPTER X. GRACE'S SOJOURN ABROAD-VICISSITUDES-CHARLIE'S GUARDIAN CARE--IER SAD RETURN TO TIlE OLD IHOOE. EIGHT years beneath a foreign sky! Many changes like shadows come; many hopes like sunlight gone. The beautiful sea-girded isle that was Grace's home-how fair it was before sorrow was there, a guest and sojourner  Time had digged a grave in the mountain shades--a little grave, yet how long and broad and deep it was! The world was not wider than this little plot of violets. Though the sunlight upon it was not brighter than another pair of eyes, opened first to its glory that bathed the mist- wreathed sumnit of Etna. Four cottage walls-a heart- home. How sweet were its flowers, until the blight came witheringly! How ihsidious was the tempter's breath! how fascinating was the voice of that arch fiend, that fell demon of dissipation! Gradually, step by step, may be traced the downward path over which men pass recklessly to the consummation, when will and strength are mythical terms, plunging deeper into a vortex of reckless excess. When manliness is gone, quickly other vices fly to possess the conscienceless tenement. One by one she felt the golden bands loosen from Eugene's heart in the fiery fur- nace of licentiousness. Turbid and dark at length was the lava tide of Stygian waters that swept away the faintest shadow of a connect- ing link ;-and then came pity to her heart. Oh! woman! pray that the sod should cover him whom ( 152   ETNA VANDEMR.        153 your soul worships, rather than you should be taught to feel pity for your glory-crowned king! T is a significant term, pity; it never comes while love lingers. Contempt may come, but pity only when an idol has fallen to deeps where love cannot follow him. Long and far he wander- ed, lured by wiles of one fair as Corinne,-wandered even bevond the range of faith and hope. Yet upon one kindly breathed word, in tones of the olden tenderness, the old love like a meteor flasli illumining home came back again; but they were brief as fair, these seasons. Change, that mighty blighting curse of human hearts, is traced as with a pen of doom upon all nature; and the fleshly tablet that is the dwelling of our love may not be exempt. Men forget their allegiance as they forget old familiar paths from which they have strayed. Joy, in the duration of her brief existence, is weaving garlands with which to wreath her own tomb. The ponderous machinery of life crashes, sweeping away the devotee, the incense, and the altar! God's planets in immensity of space revolve in their heaven-appointed orbits; " the never-ending sun" pauses not in his circuit; seasons at their appointed time are born, live on in the strength of their days and weeks and hours;-and must this frail relict, the human heart, sink into sacrilegious inanity, because its hopes like these have died? Dare we expend the golden springtime of its capacity moaning for idols broken, pursuing phantoms of soul or sense, unhallowed by the holy seal of God's ap- probation? The brave live on the life that God has given, walking firmly, hopefully, the thorny path. We may have known the bliss of love-dare we eschew the misery?  For with it ever comes "the pang, the agony, the doubt."  Whence comes the poisonous potion? From the same wellspring flows the healing draught. The rain- bow covenant illumined not God's sky until many waters had deluged the face of the earth.! A symbol were those countless drops of the tears humanity must weep for frailty and change. !4i          '     154        ETNA VANDEMR. Perhaps if she had been less lofty in her unbending pride, which never sought or permitted a reconciliation, it might have have been different; but she could never bring herself to hear from his lips that her idol was fallen. Her cheek paled, and her heart sank down. With mute, com- pressed lips, she hid the pain and pursued the hard way; yet the necessity was indeed a bitter one. She felt the falsity of her position, and the misconstruction attendant thereon. Yet even amid animadversions incurred, she wore the mask of peace, and stood armorless, whilst the tumult within and conflict without were raging. Reserve was not an element in her ardent, impulsive nature. It was in vain she affected it. It sat uneasily, as an uncouth garment upon her. Levity therefore was her only resource Yes! it was far better the world should not know what a mouldering ruin was her heart, its power and capacity unappropriated, as its hopes and aspirations were un- reached,-a lyre with no loving hand to sweep the tremulous chords, or wake to ecstasy its wild Eolian strains. Sorrowfully she turned to the little grave in the moun- tain shadow, then to the bright eyes by her side. The one had found her rest. How upon the broad waste of earth could her weak hands make a home for the other? They were all blighted, withered fig-trees now upon the sunny plane of her life. She turned back through the shades to the old home at the glen; she must go there. The power that might have kept her by his side was gone with his love which was hers no longer. "Fairer hands had pressed him, richer bliss had wooed." She arose in despair, as they who have watched by the bedside of some cherished one, strickenwti a fatal illness, when there is "no hope." Alas! for sucd there is hope, beyond the dreary tomb; but for the de eased heart, in its grave of living, breathing clay, there is no hope. The ephemeral flames enkindled upon the cold white ashes of a palsied love are not life.   ETNA VANDEMR.        155 There was no dawn for this interminable night that had so drawnr its pall over her life. She felt this, as she arose f'omn a last tearless vigih. Though the blue sky of morn was above, and Sicily's green sward beneath,--the bright land with the smouldering volcano in its bosom,-her heart was burningr as its central fires. She leaned her head wearily against the casement. Waves as they broke on the pebbled strand were torture to her ear. The atmosphere was breathless, save when the undulating spray fell upon her uncovered head. The same sound of gushing waters was in her soul, that she heard upon her marriage-day; but they could not quench the surging lava in her heart. And then in the solemn still-, ness came strains soft, mysterious, beautiful as any that ever glided from beneath the fingers of Haydn. The world of sorrowful reality ebbed away. She was oblivi- ous to the torturing agony: existence was unreal in thet strength and power of this spell. Her spirit shook the dust from its wings and soared, and her heart forgot the weight of its dead hopes, borne aloft in the charm of this bewildering harmony. A home air i What could have been sweeter then? This was succeeded by the mournful pathetic euphony of Weber's last waltz. Her heart sank down with suspended pulsations. "cAh! Charlie!" said she wildly, "I too know the agony of a vain love. Yet you were not deceived; my lips did not withhold the bitter truth." How little those knew her who accused her of trifling! Yet this was but one result of her mistaken levity. "Ah! Charlie! she said again, "the world is now to mle the 'faithless thing' you said it would become." How thrilling and manly were the tones that sang that song of home! We remember having heard a dear friend remark that this air always oppressed him with a melancholy sadness. He knew not why; neither could we imagine. There was no missing link-in the household chain, no vacant chair by his home fireside.  156        ETNA VA NDEMTR. Grace arose and walked her room till the sun was high in the eastern horizon; and the flaming I)eams had woven a halo round the mountain top. Then fronm this, her last vain vigil, she tried to rest. The word was a mockery. She made her prepDarations for departure. Soon the dim emerald boundary faded from her view. The last rays of the sun gilded the rugfged sides of Etna, and rested hope- fully upon the grave in its shadow, as a smile of faith and trust illumines the face of a dying Christian. She gazed until all were gone from the sky into the sparkling fathom- less track, that lay between her and the homeless home she had left, and the day-god had sunk like a globe of fire into the snow-capped waves, as they lashed in fury against the western sky. Well she knew it would shine no more as it had shone on earth. The most acute pang which she experienced was in parting from friends, who in a few brief days and hours of social intercourse had grown about her life, in death- less bonds. Who has not known some bitter hour, in which heart and soul has sunk down impotent in the over- whelming sorrow that comes with some farewell, that brought crushing desolation in its train? In vain we stru(ggle to break the gallincg bonds and to subvert inevit- able circumstances. c It is finished." We kiss the smiting rod in Christian submission, in chastened endurance ; we go on our way, carrying the aching void that naught can fill, to the dreary end. Grace had long felt the necessity for this step. She knew there were many to misconstrue, many to surmise, some to commiserate and censure. The latter class, how- ever, were those who had no hold upon her affections, and she would have scorned justification at a tribunal of the carelessly envious. From the friends who had looked into the depths of her soul there were silent hand-pressures and whispered sympathies, that thrilled her with strength to brave and endure all. The conviction had weighed heavily upon her heart   i!        -   ETNA VANDEMR.         1 57 during the last days of her sojourn in Europe, that her mind must take refuge from its unnatural tension in the domain of Lethe, to seek there a relaxation from its tor- tu;e.  It is a fearful thing to feel ourselves resting helplessly and hopelessly within anotlher's power, subject to the over- mnasteringr will that governs us. How terrible the conscious- ness that, restrained by no moral principle, their caprice may at any time precipitate us into a maelstrom, from which no earthly power can extricate us, nor impede the torrent of implacable ruin upon which they would heedlessly launch us. No! not oceans of tears.-She came home once more. When the spring birds were gaily chanting morn and eve, and the brooks were freed from the icy embrace of winter, singing on their silver course rejoicing in the glad sunlight; when the purple violets opened their petals to dew kisses, and cowslips dotted the meadow, where the old creaking foot-bridge spanned the' stream that sang through the old churcli-yard,-Grace came home once nore. Home again! How oppressive was the solitude! where were the rest and peace she sought? How dreary and un- lighted the wilderness that lay before her! starry gleams, tneteor-like, from extinguished hope glanced fitfully over the ashen-hued canopy of the past,-the coffined past in- terred beyond those snow-capped ocean waves; and she, futureless, was alone. Alone! how the words went crashing through her brain, sweeping withered blossoms from the once garnished and garlanded chambers of her heart-stifling the voices of memories! Where was the strong arm, the brave true heart? Sleep rarely visited the eyes that had learned so well to weep. Shle would lie the long nights through with her hands clasped above her burning brow, living again in a waking dream the old remembered anguish; and through the long April days she would sit listlessly by the open   158        ETNA VANDEMR. casement, gazing upon the long range of woodland, watch- ing the arrowy sunshine playing upon the sweet wild flowers, and the patches of cowslip and daisies white that grew in the paled garden. Aunt Faith's heart was almost broken to see her darling return thus, and she sought by every means in her power to arouse her from the apathetic indifference and torpid lethargy into which she had fallen. She had almost de- spaired of doing so, when they were startled out of the dull routine by a visitor, whom Grace was surprised to re- cognize as Eugene's mother. Mrs. Vandemir had not known of her arrival, had merely gone down to visit the old scenes again,-which she did frequently, having trusted Aunt Faith with her secret, with the injunction that she would tell it to no one, more especially not to the inmates of Wilton. Owing to her dislike for her father-in-law, Grace could not be induced to visit his house. So her mother agreed to visit her as often as possible, though her husband was confined with a spell of the gout, and required her almost constant care. Grace received no visitors, not even from Wilton. Their presence she felt would be a reproach upon her. It was during one of these visits that her mother told her all. She held her hand; it was grasped tighter and tighter when she knew it was her mother's hand she held. She knew also that a bloody hand of fate was laid heavily on her daughter's head. Was this the atonement? Alas! that the fair spotless brow of the sinless child should be thus defaced with the mark of Cain! Then she knew why it was that she had not received her father's name, why her mother was the wife of the man whom   she detested. Long they sat there in the failing light, in the old parlor where she sat last by Charlie Emerson's side. Fainter and dimmer grew the outline of the great world, as with its gilded domes and dreary wastes it noved slowly backward like a funeral train; fainter and fainter throbbed the tremulous pulses of "infinite strife."   ETNA VANDEMR.        159 All sank down, imbecile, powerless, while darkness and silence closed around. Even the last faint notes of the requiem died away. And still, hand grasping hand, and heart embracing heart, they sat there, mother and child. The thoughts of both were far away with the wanderer, dead to both save in memory. How sad a doom was his- an exile from paternal roof, separated by a ban of blood Bg   from his native land, his place usurped in hearts once so loyal to him, his memory banished from the home that was once his own, his name a dead sound! i Ah!" said the mother, "he heard hot the wild wail that went after him; now he must never hear it more." Grace gazed upon her as she spoke. There was some- thing grand in her determined, lofty endurance, that souht no compromise with grief. In vain might the storm spend its might of vindictive wrath against the towering rocks that bowed about her life's waste-dark and high above prolific soil, where sweet flowers once grew. The shadow was deep upon the bright and beautiful of this earth, and dark upon her own soul. How little the great world knows of many that are its devotees. Here was one whom all beheld as the wife of a New-York millionaire, accepting, as a queen in her na- tive sphere, the homage of the elite of Fifth avenue. Her wit was the bead upon the sparkling winecup of enjoy- ment; her repartees electrified the ennuyeed devotee of many seasons; her sarcasms penetrated the cuticle of arrogance and pedantry; she reigned supreme as Calypso in her sweet island of Ithaca. Grace had many times noted the fearful brilliancy of her eyes. She dared not meet them now: their expression was terrific-volcanic. "You think me happy," said,she, with a freezing smile. "Fiends might well shrink in horror from contemplating the voiceless anguish in the depths of my soul." There was a world of comprehensive meaning in her words. The veil' was lifted, that for long years had shut     160        ETNA VANDEMR. out the sunlight and blue above. The blossoms that had sprung up ill tie borrowed radiance, nurtured by secret tears, had also faded. Grace saw her as she was, as her God sawx,-a miserable, desolate woman. Grace recog- nized the mask her own headhad worn once,-for a long time, it seemed to her then. How alhort a time it seemed to her now, with this lifetime sorrow! The parallel was beneficial; it made her content with her lot. "Oh! mother!" said she passionately, "how can you go back to the darkness and the gloom again? Why not revoke the words, the fearful words, that bound you in this most unnatural marriage, that doom you to a life of sycophancy and hypocrisy? Renounce the semblance of a character, false, conventional, that involves the assutmp- tion of attributes foreign to your nature, imposed by this living falsehood in the siglit of God, to whom alone you are answerable for the consequences. Never fear: He will weigh all, mother, in the golden scale of his justice." She had arisen as she spoke. The flush of wounded feeling, caused by the remembrance of her own wrongs, as by another's sorrow, was upjon her face. Who could have beheld, as she stood there, the fire flashing from her dark eyes, without feeling that Eugene Vandemir had much to perform before he had quite accomplished the task of crushing that wild, ungovernable, untamed nature? The ice that had thickened as his love grew cold was melted now, and the burning torrent swelled. He had trodden down the fiery heart; but, now the spell was removed, the rebound was fearful. She had shaken off the long lethargy that bound her to her sorrow, as Morpheus the spell that fettered his spirit wings, and stood forth fearless in her renewed strength. The snow had fallen mid-spring. It was melted now, and the golden summer had come. With all a mother's pride now Mrs. Vandemir gazed upon her, speaking at length slowly and mournfully. "I should have done so, perhaps, at your age, Grace, had I known all. Now it is impossible. I have reached   ETNA VANDEMR.        161 that sad climax when we cease to hope aught from the munificence of earth. In the bright love-life I have no part, nor .fear its casualties. Long ago I stood by the death-bed of my joy. I hope for no resurrection. I have likewise become callous- to its spectres. It is too late now. The crash would electrify the social world. I More: it would fall with relentless weight upon the de- v oted head of one whom I through all these years have loved. It would crush him to the earth, or perchance would give his neck to the hangman's cord, for the mark of Cain is upon his noble brow. Ah!" contin- ued she, "there is a dungeon in my palace home. I sit there by night and day manacled, as he was wheffn I saw him last. The chill and mould are in my heart and life. My doom is worse than his, even though upon the face of earth his wanderings may never end. And, for the sake of both, I must never look upon his face again."' Thie demon had laid his profaning hand upon the golden fruitage that succeeded the early blossoms. The priceless growth had fallen, blighted, and now lay a mouldering, blackening waste.  Grace saw it all now. She stood by while her sotrowful mother ad opened a grave of the past. Thenceforth, when they met, this grave was between them. Her heart lay in it, and she could smile above the ruin. Necessity is a king of habit; she was become the most loyal and devoted of subjects. She had yet her part to play in the drama of life. The scene was unchanged, and she was still upon the stage, whilst the pompous pageant moved on, of which she was a living figure, an indispensable appurtenance. Grace mused long, and then spoke as one striving to realize a painful truth. "Oh! mother! did you never see him again?"  "Yes, once. This letter will explain all, said she, dreamily. She had gone back to thenight, and the one hand-clasp of those long years was hers again. She took "     162        ETNA VANDEMR. two letters and a small jewel-case from her pocket, and handed them to her. ," My watch!" said she with surprise. "How came you with it?"She had parted with it in Paris to procure money to pay her expenses home. Her face expressed all it had cost her to do so, and she turned over and over, affectionately, the little gem enamelled with blue and set with diamonds. Mrs. Vandemir noted the pained expression upon her child's face, and hastened to reply. "(I am well acquainted with the circumstances connected with your disposal of it; so I will spare you the humiliating recital. I was well aware that Eugene had always far exceeded his annual allowance, in addition to expending your patrimony; but I never imagined you reduced to such extremities. I had hoped that your suffering had despoiled you of what is our family curse. I knew you would have died, rather than accept aught from any mem- ber of my family. The old wilfulness again! It is a fear- ful thing, darling, to be swayed by this iron monster Pride,-to feel his foot upon your neck, his grasp upon your heart." Grace was silent. She knew that this stern pride had prevented Eugene from acknowledging his wrong. Pride had prevented her from evincing a spirit of concession that might have reconciled them. Yes! pride had sealed the lips upon which trembled the unuttered prayer for forgive- ness. Pride hadT'aid an iron hand upon the heart that sprang up to greet the unspoken words. Alas! relentless Pride! upon thy stony altar how many hearts lie crushed and bleeding! how many flowers lie withered, never to bloom again beneath the spreading Upas shadow! The pallid cheek and hollow eye- tell of thy tear-bought vic- tories, and point to the grave that is thy eventual doom. "Mother," said Grace, after a long pause, "; from whom did you receive this watch?" "Charlie Emerson sent it to me. He had no idea you   ETNA VANDEMR.        163 were coming home; he only supposed you were in want. He is a noble man. He told me long since of his love and devotion for you; he has proved its purity by his kindly watchful care. He is now a junior partner of our house. He has been some nine months abroad, and will soon return. One of those letters is his." Grace glanced at the superscription of the other. The hand was bold, though evidently trembling, that penned it. 'And whose is this, mother?" said she; "may I know?' "Yes, my child; your father wrote it." ' She pronounced these words with a determined effort, more touching to behold than would have been the most vehement outhursts of grief in the recurrence of memory. "Mother, can you tell me why I was led to believe that Francis Lynton was my father?" "We left home at the same time, Cousin Frank and I; and the neighbors, who knew little of our family con- cerns, supposed, on hearing I was married, that it was to him,-more especially when he returned to the Glen with you, a little infant, and I was supposed to be dead. I was taken then to Aunt Emington's home, and nursed tenderly. All this I learned afterwards from a friend, ! Robert Meredith." Aunt Faith came to bring candles previous to retiring. Grace led the way to her own apartment, where Etna lay sleeping, her long jetty lashes resting upon the cream- colored cheeks, through which a delicate peach bloom was visible,-a complexion rich and beautiful as the Calla Ethiopica, like that of a Creole in Southern lands.  She is more like him than you are," said Mrs. Vandc- mir the elder. "And more like you, than she is like me," answered Grace quickly. ";Dear child! It is sad to think in her childhood's years she may have no home companionship; no spot upon the wide world where her soul may unfold its wings in the sunshine of an united household. I would { 5XI,     164        ETNA VANDEIIR. she were not doomed to this desolation!" She bent her head low, while a tempest of bitter memories swept over her. "Oh! anywhere but there, Aunt Faith. I can't go there!" said the visitor vehemlently, as the old housekeeper unclosed the chamber that was Cornelia Lynton's. "Any- where else but there! Oh, no!" She spoke with a mystery and energy so unlike herself, that Grace was startled, and answered promptly, "Stay in this room with me, mother dear; and we- shall not sleep, but talk of the day and destiny of each, which has been so strange and wayward." The pale moon was visible through the west window, with the few bright-eyed Sentinels that walked the night by her side. All were faded into morn when they slept. The sun was high in heaven when they awoke; golden day, resplendent in his shining, was about them. Aunt Faith sat on the piazza, watching Etna as she glanced spirit-like through the bright beams, chasing amber-winged butterflies, while the flush deepened on her cheeks, and the arrowy light gleamed and quivered in her dark eyes, now breaking in dazzling radiance on the surface, now smoul- dering in the depthis. The child was beautiful, and happy : no shadow had yet crossed her sun. "May she be always so!" was Aunt Faith's prayer, as she dropped her head upon her withered hands, and was lost in musing of the now shorn glory of that once united and prosperous house- hold. How many dark changes had come and gone! The white daisies bloomed brightly each returning springtime, beneath the blue sky, as in the days when Cornelia's hand had gathered them. And poor Alec! where was he? How long he had been away! The mother's heart bled as she thought of her poor wandering son. She rarely abandoned hers1elf to the grief that had come so heavily upon her old age. Her lessons of patient endurance had been lifelong; and now, with a sweet hope that brightened her sorrow,   ETNA VANDEMIR.        165 in thought she was gathering together the lost and fallen master and servant, prodigal and saint, every link in that lolo fa-nily chain, with the magic of that deathless promise, bindling them to the great white throne. Oh! Religion! how wondrous in thy might of convincing power! A priceless heritage promised through the medium of thy faith, alike to prince and peasant, Jew and Gentile, bond and free. c 6 Whosoever will, let him come and partake of the waters of life freely." c"Christ tasted death for every man." 'c Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, nor can ima- gination picture, the things that my Father has prepared for those that love Him.". " Why, do you weep, Aunty?" said the child, joining her from her sport. "I thought you said you were so glad to have mamma and me here with you? Are you growing tired of us?"' The kind old creature took the child in her arms and seated her by her side. Etna read her answer in the ten-  der face bent down to hers. When Mrs. Vandemir and Grace came down, they found them sitting thus,-the morning face of childhood and the wasted visage of age.  They all sat down to the morning meal. All the world seemed hushed in a great calm, so profound was the still- ness in the shades of this old home that sheltered them. Mrs. Vandemir was first to break the silence. , I must return to-day; and remember, Grace, you must never divulge what this letter will reveal to you. Respect, as I have done, the secret sorrow of those whose misthfortune it is to mourn a prodigal son and brother. Lift not the veil from their grief: this I hope to do when I can plead for forgiveness, having done all in my power to extenuate his wrong done to that father whom I now serve; then this immolation and atonement shall be com- plete. I must go to my master now," said she, with a bit- tcr smile; "I will come again." Grace sat once more in the old parlor to peruse the   166        ETNA V NDEMR. letters. She read Charlie's first. How good and kind he was! Truly he was her friend-he had proven it. She blessed God that this noble heart was left to her; she pressed her lips to the letter and laid it on the table by her side. Opening the other, she read. A voice from those two stifled hearts, echoing through the stately ruin of their past;-a voice, silent so long to her, their child, it might be silent to her still evermore. The tide of sympathetic feeling, compressed through the tender years, now surged in a burning torrent through the wreck of her life, sweeping away the landmarks of her great sorrow. It contained a check for a large amount on a Northern bank, and ran thus: c"It has long been my intention to return to the wife of my victim's father the money that purchased my release from prison. I should sooner have liquidated the debt, had it not been that illness and misfortune have followed so rapidly through a strange land. Accept my gratitude in the brief manner in which it is offered. I have not many words; they are not harsh, only sorrowful. Mine has been the hard task to drive again the fatal iron of fate into a soul in which all the unforgotten tenderness of bygone years had resumed its sway, as in the days when first I tasted its sweet draughts. This last was bitterest far of all insidious potions, whose countless drops my lips have quaffed. Returned after those long years of struggle, of banishment, spent in laboring for a beloved one, for whose honor that fatal blow was stricken,--returned with the achievements for which I had so toiled, hope swelling in my heart,-to find her arms, whose last wild agonizing clasp, remembered, had hallowed those weary years of probation, pinioned hopelessly by her side. You had long ceased to give me words of kindness, though I prayed so wildly for one line. Yet when I braved the law from whose clemency I had nought to hope, set aside the con- viction of your long slow change, I returned to find   ETNA VANDEMR,        167 my love in the vuture's grasp. Pardon me! I d not i   forget myself-would that I could!--though I am aware those words ill befit the outcast criminal who has eluded vigilance and defrauded revenge of its hated victim, to- t ward the wife of a merchant prince of Fifth avenue. "You will forgive me that I am unable to recognize this bond, where both heart and soul, as you know, were fettered by another. That one trembling clasp of the  hand revealed all to me-the agonizing, lifelong struggle. I cannot appreciate your accepted martyrdom as atone- ment. Sacrifices of like nature should be offered to God, and not to man. And I, a murderer, an outcast, can say this to you. If this immolation affords you any pleasure, pursue it to the end. It is like the offerings of Hindoos upon bodies of their dead,-only they ignorantly sacrifice their souls, for they are deluded; while you are conscious, fearfully, fatally conscious, of all. Yet do not let my wild words deprive your effort of at least a semblance of success. My prayers, if I may utter prayers, will be that your life may not be hopeless and joyless as mine. These blood-stained hands, that struck the flowers from your life, would, if they dared, rest in blessing on your head,-the head that rested in blessing upon my heart,-blessing and sweet trust. You have acted a noble part toward her whom we both love, in whose veins flows the current of our two lives since gone to waste. "I would have been unkind once, but for this. I would have touched with blighting hand the false texture of the life you had assumed. It was the knowledge of your sac- rifice that deterred me from so doing. My probation if nought to the struggle that must have been yours, wher forced to break the only link that bound you to our past,-- to banish her that the stigma of her father's name might not fall upon her.! I saw her often, during her residence in Europe. I recognized her from her resemblance to you, Cornelia. Her face is like the face that sits supreme in my heart, wreathed in a halo of early sunlight,-and smil- --   --rr [r rrrrrr-) IVVI JrLI     168        ETNA VANDEMR. ing afar back in the long ago, as it has ceased long since to smile,-as it will never smile again on me;--a face dearly remembered still, for it has never left my dreams, though gone from my hope, to brighten another home, to lean upon another heart. The ideal, smiling like a bliss- ful star above the shattered wreck of former years, was merged with reality on beholding her. Oh! how I have lingered near her, my heart quivering with intense love and joy! I realized what must have been, what must still be your struggle; then I felt that this ban of blood that divided us was indeed accursed. How I longed to go to her and tell her all! but he of that hated name stood be- tween us! .. .. To make myself positive concern- ing her identity, I inquired of a Mr. Emerson, who I was assured knew her. They were spending the season at the Villa Borghese, in Italy. I, as any stranger might, often played with her child, the little Etna. She is more like you than the other. I knew not why, but I had a pre- sentiment that has developed itself to me in a wild hope, that this child will one day make my life brighter than it is now. At the invitation of Grace, I visited her in her Sicilian home. I was there a visitor when her beautiful child died, and saw her kind husband strew the flowers that were the gift of a perfidious woman, a false friend, upon the little form of her loved dead one. And Grace mutely endured this desecration in the sight of God and the angels, because she had no power to resist. I felt the old gorge of vindictive wrath swelling in my throat and burn- ing in my temples. I am not sure I should not have told her all, and taken her under my charge, only a few months afterward she left the Island, and no one knew whither she was gone. Emerson, too, had returned to the States. I have lost trace of her. I only know that he remains pursuing his libidinous pleasures much the same -as ever. I should like to have power to take the little one to my heart, and teach her what a father's love should be; but not yet-the hour is not come."   ETNA VANDEMR.         169 Grace sat ruminating long after she had finished the perusal of this strange revelation. Vividly she remem- bered the gentleman who was so very kind to her. She had felt strangely drawn to him, from that intuition the exercise of which is worth more to woman than the philosophic logic of man. Then came a gush of bitter memories. How, allured  by Eugene's blandishments, she had climbed to dizzy heights of hope, to come down alone, to walk the despondent vales of despair. Still, how cherished was that bright home-picture, before the blight and the sorrow fell, and then how bitter were the tears she had shed for him! Tears trickled between her fingers. She bowed her head and wept, as she had wept for Charlie's anguish. She wept now for the broken home, beyond the wild blue deeps, over leagues of intervening sea, where snow-capped azure waves broke wildly upon a sunny, fertile Sicilian strand. How caressingly they kissed the rocky coast, above which the mist-wreathed summit of Etna was pillowed upon fleecy rifts, as they hung upon beams of flaming light beneath the broad expanse of blue, whose depths were mirrored in the surrounding sea, in its infinite halcyon calm. It stood there, her heart's home, desolate. How bright and beauteous it was when love and hope, joint proprietors, were dwelling there! It was no palatial mansion such as Leontes might have occupied while enduring the horrors of his self-invoked bereavement, but such a retreat as the gentle Her- mione might have chosen; for her hands had made it what it was. Its solitudes were brightened by the pres- ence of a little fairy, who went each eve, and often vainly, down the mountain road to " greet her sire's return." Happy years were those; and they went, oh! how swiftly by! At length came the convulsion which made "A chaos and a space at last." The home-star set, deep in a gloomy night, and she watch- ed vainly, prayerfully, for the dawn. It came not, even     170        ETNA VANDEMR.              , when four thousand miles of sea grew in a waste between. Hers was a weary world to wander through, with no rest- ing-place for heart beneath the sun. The little grave was left under its arching cover of date-trees; dark weeds grew upon it; strange voices were heard ; strange hands gathered the flowers in her garden. The old memories from its shades died with their echo away. Awhile, and the sweet home was tenantless evermore. Another head was pillowed upon his heart,--one whom he loved better far,-yet who never loved him half so well!   CHAPTER      XI. REMNISCENCES --CHARLIE'S LOVE---HS PROPOSAL AND REJEC- TION -- CRUSHNG INTELLIGENCE. HA  u Oh! wanderer, more between us now is lying Than e'er we dreamed of in those days of yore: Hearts changed, hopes dead, and old affections dying, And the blue sea that sweeps from shore to shore. How true the words I spoke when last I met thee, While the still moon looked calmly on my pain: I go my way, and thou wilt soon forget me; And we shall never, never meet again'." TIME passed: wearily  on,. not with  the silver-footed swiftness of youth  and hope, but with the steady tread with which an insidious foe is wont to approach the bed- side of an unconscious victim with the assassin's dagger in his hand, the assassin's purpose at his heart,-with the midnight gliding with which a fearful fatal malady is apt to approach us, invisible as is the power that entwines steely threads of destiny with the checkered web of exist- ence. Miss Muloch has said that love counts time by heart- throbs! Surely sorrow metes to us the measure of its duration in the same scale; and proportionately, to our capacity for the exercise of that divine attribute, charity, may -we claim 'the power of freeing ourselves from    its domination.  The victory of life is ours when we learn its sweet lessons of forgiveness.   Woman, with wondrous facility, rises superior to the greatest sorrow, to give strength and comfort to one she loves; though, even with so much exalted incentive, the task is long and bitter. a. 171 'fV ; L.      172        ETNA VANDEMR. Grace found it so. Wearily passed the long summer days. Then came at last the autumn with its intermin- able hours of wailing sadness.  Troops of phantom shadows grouped upon the sunny slopes where the warm sunlight loved to linger, where she and Charhe had walked  side by side through the summer's faded green, when its rays were not brighter than the golden tissues of hope that encircled their dreams. Anon, from beyond those snow-capped waves of ocean came a tribute of flowers. More than aught else in by- gone days she had valued and treasured such gifts. Their faded sweetness bore her heart's thoughts back to the sweet plains where their future once blossomed,-where their past now lay buried. Though they were scentless and withered like those other flowers that a reckless hand had scattered down upon that tomb of time and joy, the fair frail tribute was very precious to her. How often had her soul gone forth upon the silver wings of thought, over the\ chaos of intervening time and space, to those memories of long ago! She saw the towering mountain summit, and the little grave by its side; the blue smiling sky, and the widely extended plains; the music of its gushing streams, and the whisper of its breezes. How the wild sweet strains of unforgotten music swelled again with the faintest touch upon those mute chords, a whisper from the olden idol! There was not a throb of the former anguish that she did not live again in the weary pilgrimage; and then, oh! the dreary coming back, with the sweetest strains echoless, evermore! In the glow of the autumn afternoon she sat upon the old rustic seat musing thus, when a tall form crossed the sunshine, and Charlie Emerson stood before her. He had called at the house, and not finding her, he had come to the hemlock-tree to seek her. There was a halcyon calm upon her brow, serene as though no stormy sea of sorrow had swept over it since they parted last. She gave him her hand in greeting; it was cold, for the day had been chill.   ETNA VANDEMR.         173 "Had we not better return to the house?" said he, with all the delicate attentiveness that had characterized his care for Grace in days gone by. She rose and took his proffered arm. Slowly over the lichen-crusted pavement they walked in the golden rays of the November sun, over patches of emerald moss, as they had walked ten years pre- vious upon the day of their parting. Silent they were, for thoughts of that far-off time were busy at the heart of each. At length Charlie spoke. '"It is pleasant to meet again after all those years." There was a manly tremor in his tones which might have implied that the meeting was not one of unalloyed bliss. She assented with a smile so sad, so sweet, so pre- cious to him,-as to the storm-tossed mariner, after days and nights of impenetrable gloom, is the first beacon ray upon the chaos which great tempest has wrought. It illu- mined her features as do meridian sunbeams far-stretching plains lying crisped and barren, destitute of flowers and fruitage, renewing for a brief moment the bright green sward, and awakening as do those rare visitants of the chill season a gush of springtide melody, sweet as the notes of a winter song-bird. It was a patient smile) and told him of long hours of bitter endurance and stormy conflicts, that had been hers, unaided and alone, ere she conquered her woman's heart and planted the sod of calm- ness upon the grave of its sweet dreams; therefore it thrilled him as no expression of her sorrow would have done, her gentleness and patience under that great wrong, The years dropped from her brow like a weary mask, long worn and irksome, as an hour later she sat in the low parlor, leaning now her head upon the broad breast of this tried true friend, like a timid child. Ah! that hour of resting from the incessant conflict was sweet atonement for those interminable ones of suffering! There was not the faintest element of materialism intermixed with her sensations. It was only a calm repose in this little sunny beam of trust, after the whirlwinds that had wrecked her     174        ETNA VANDEMR.  faith in all mankind. How protective and kindly was the presence in whose circle she felt as secure as though no more heartaches could come to her! The sunshine through the window-panes lay sleeping in oblong forms upon the faded tapestry that covered the floor. Hand grasping hand in perfect confidence they sat there,-trust that was uncrossed by the faintest shadow of a doubt. They talked of many things--other hours with other scenes as they floated up in the mist of memory: of that feverish dream of hers with its waking unrest of over her life; of their childhood as passed here, and its sweet sunny trysts, ere either had gone out into the great world to seek a home which neither found. Alas! earth has few homes for her votaries, those who worship at the shrine of her pleasure. These golden moments flew by with a strange velocity to her who had taught herself to count the falling sands as they dropped wearily from time's rlass. Even though in that brief hour she walked with  Urn the desert pathway again, tasted the bitter waters :hat bubbled by the wayside, and crushed down the thorns, Y thornse wa ,                 : he bitterest tide of memories was unvoiced! He did not :now the deep grief that had o'ershadowed her life was   X ankling yet in her heart; for the calm was on her brow till. With a far-off, unapproachable expression in her ice, she echoed his thought, which seemed to say, cl The itterness is past" An historical scene passed in swift oview before her. Within a close prison cell of London ower, one of England's proud statesmen was incarcerated  ;  y the tyrant powers, the inveterate axe of the headsman  . vaiting him. He passed the fiery ordeal of earthly part- It  gs; he had pressed the last kiss upon the lips of her -vo i: as dearer than all the world beside; he had looked for  e last time upon the laces of his children. With a brow  X rlene, in the majesty of hicgh-souled honor, his heart nerved  r the last trying strug gle, Hieaven-sustained, Russell  me Ibrth into the light to meet death; and with a smile   ETNA VANDEMR.        175 upon his unfaltering lips, lips that had renounced his earth- ly blessings, he spoke the words that were written in the brightness of Charlie Emerson's face: "The bitterness is past." Death had now no terror; earth's treasured ties were severed. Oh! there is glory in the death of a proud man whose life, like the day-god's, goes down shining brightest at the last! He did not read what was passing in her mind, and with the same pleading earnest voice that had all the unforgotten melody of other tones, he spoke. "Grace! you begged that I would be your friend. With a proud consciousness I say it, feeling that I speak truth,-I have never in the slightest instance forfeited the exalted title. I have watched over you and guarded you, when another should have redeemed the sacred trust as an exalted privilege. You know the feelings that impelled me, for I was frank enough to tell you once that you would always be more than a friend to me. In the lapse of years you may have forgotten my words, but not one of them have I forgotten; and as I said to you in those sun- ny days, so would I say now, and so would I have said at any moment from that day to this. Can you say as much?" He paused. She did not speak, and he proceeded: "Life stretches far beyond, still a prolific plain from whose diversified revenues you may draw many pure sources of joy. Time has not changed you, save to develop latent strength manifested in unexpected casualties. "You are still young, too young to immolate yourself upon a rack of the past." She felt that he spoke truly: she was not the weak child from whom he had parted years before. She was a woman now, grown strong in suffering, and she felt her womanhood as she had never felt it before. I am proud, Grace; but my love is stronger than my pride, or I should not now be suing for the hand you once refused me. I do not believe you ever conceived how ardent was my love,' or imagine now how constant and     176        ETNA VANDEMR. changeless it has been. You have seen the world since we met last, and know that men are apt to address gifted and beautiful women in the language of love, without caring or wishing to be believed. You may have placed me in the category of those who for the sake of conquest  seek the love of women. You have passed through a ter- rible ordeal since we parted; a faithless one has been and is the constantly recurring subject of unpleasant memories. You have watched the extinction of a light that nothing can re-illumine. Your trustfulness in human nature is diminished; you are no longer so credulous of good as you were. ' If the one whom we have so loved, so trusted, in the first fresh years of youth, whom we so worshipped in our heart of hearts,-if this one has deserted us, who then shall be faithful? But you should not grow dis- trustful of your best friend, Grace, one who would die to serve you or promote your happiness; for he loves you better than life. "' I confess that for years I have kept mine own counsel; but my silence was for your sake. Now that you are free, and words of mine cannot offend or wrong another, I must speak to you as I feel. Through years I have loved you, not alone with the all-absorbing tenderness and love which we bestow upon our hearts' first idol, but with the strong protecting love of manhood,-aye, even when I felt that love so hopeless. The dim pathway in the years of your future may be through a trackless wilderness, even to the eternal boundary; but I offer you a strong arm upon which to lean, a wellspring of affection amid the burning sands that surround you. You are bound now by no pre- conceived tie; his hands have made you free. I offer you paternal care and guardianship for your child. "Will you love me, Grace? will you be my own--my wife?" She raised her eyes as his meaning shot through her with an electric power that left her trembling and word- less. Upon his face there was an expression of tortured   ETNA VANDEMR.        1" eagerness; his eyes glowed as though the smothered flames of years were fiercely blazing there. IIis fingers closed tighter over her hand in a convulsive grasp. That glance revealed to her how the one hope of a lifetime hungt upon her answer. She bent her eyes to the floor. The sun-dots were no longer there; they had risen, and were burning their records on the time-stained wall, while the day-god sank deeper in his couch of fleecy cloud-rilts. Another scene- "The day and hour, the sunshine and the shade,"- came to her: the tumult in her spirit was hushed in a great calm, spell-like and serene as sunshine that lay sleep- ing upon the widespread green swards of unforgotten springtimes, where golden fountains cast liquid incense heavenward. That April season of her life came back, soft and balmy with perfumed breezes and opening flowers. Shadows at first had upon winged feet traversed the blos- soming plain, and at length over all the deeper shadows of a great parting fell, darkening, blighting those sweet flowers, even while the first golden gleam was upon their petals. Slowly, sorrowfully, the visions died,-the song- bird melody was hushed; and neither she might ever know again. How wildly had burst the storm! how in blind, mute despair she had bowed low her proud head while the ra- ging conflictswept by, defenceless, as it withered the spring- ing verdure, and its lightnings scorched up the fountain dews of her life. But in season of the Chastener's pleasure, the storm was hushed; the over-arching sky was suddenly transformed, not' into its former glorious array of serial visions, but the clear broad expanse of reality was radiant. It was not the blossoming Maytime that he offered her; it was the mild, calm summer, withits fruitage of long-defer- red hopes;-a golden harvest to be garnered for the autumn of life: its trustful, soulful gleams might light as with an immortal ray the winter night of the tomb. It 12     179        ETNA VANDEMR. was as the phosphorescent gleam radiating from the heav- ing ocean track over which a great ship has gone out to return no more. The sudden flash bewildered her, and she dizzily clung to the old anchor of her despair. The sparkling stream of love was swallowed up amid the thirty sands. She pressed her mute lips to the fountain, yet in fancy she heard some invidious voice of congealed poison, a relentless whisper, that breathed of the agoniz- ing convulsive throes of a great soul-death. High over- head, as though a worldwide book of fate had suddenly unclosed, she saw her name blazing amid the category of those who in this life are doomed never to know the bliss of a strong protecting love: she must bow meekly to the mandate. The irreversible decree had gone forth from Him who had fashioned the fair superstructure that em- bodies earthly existence,-animated as it is by only the faintest breath from the atmosphere of infinity, whose elements comprise and constitute the higher life beyond the confines of earth and the grave, which is but one simple ray from the immutable presence that illumines all; whose inconceivable glory surrounds the eternal throne; whose unfailing brightness, if we trust and pray, will light for us the mazes of the shadowy valley, and strike from the grave its mute terrors. Like a gorgeous aurora-borealis of the soul, this love had risen upon the ice-drifts that encompassed her life, mirroring a haven for her storm-tossed bark, free from the bonds of those in the sea of a higher hope. She saw with a gush of prayerful tenderness and thanksgiving, that she required no human aid to "to keep the faith," only an anchor of sweet trust to guide her home; for she reposed upon the strong arm of a Father who was all- powerful. One by one her idols had been broken and stricken from the talisman of her hope; she would make on earth no more; she would not invoke the curse that blighted the primitive Eden life of the first father.   ETNA VANDEMR.        179 This friendship was very precious to her, like the fra- grance of December roses in the premature untimely win- ter, to which no spring would come; and it cost her much to turn aside. There were stormy tides in the deep ocean of her heart, as she viewed an uprisen goal for which she had toiled and prayed, but dared not approach. But she stifled the wild cry in her heart, and hushed the clamoring voice that pleaded, oh! how eloquently, for this ray of earth's bright joy; remembrance and destiny kept still an unpitying vigil. There was a muscular contraction of the white lips, but no tremor in the voice that spoke to him. "Charlie, do you believe in fate?" Shadows dark and weird chased the shining hopes from his face as he looked at her. This question then was the chilling -response to his lifelong prayer and devotion! The light died from his eyes; a settled firmness transfixed his features; while despair with slow iron tread crept back into his heart. He was very proud, and was deeply wounded by her equivocation. He dropped his head upon his hand, silently, patiently, tremblingly awaiting. She gazed upon him--a long time it seemed-and then he ad- dressed her in the hoarse tones with which we would direct the funeral arrangements of a dear friend, were that friend the last, the all of earth to us. ," My life," said he, "as you well know, has been one long warfare with fate. I vainly imagined I had at last subverted the weird ghoul that has mocked me from my cradle. I fought proudly, hopefully, with a legion of adverse circumstances. I have risen to the eminence of my worldly desire. And I thought, too," (his tones were now modulated until they were like sweet music to her heart) " that love such as mine would create its ultimate goal; that, in its giant might, it would pave the pathway of hope, the road so long, so cheerless, to the haven of ful- filment: but," he added again, "other hands than those of fate can sow ruin,-hands that we press and kiss, of those we love, as in this life we love but once. They can     180        ETNA VANDEMR. strike the death-pang to a heart that has long wandered and endured, and send it forth into the great night, when it dreamed the light was well-nigh come,-alone!" There was bitterness in his tone: it was not the bitter- ness of anger or pique, but the bitterness of brave, reso- lute endurance, of subdued anguish; and each slowly syllabled word sent its arrow home to her heart. His face was turned away from her. She took his hand in both her own; it was cold. Tremblingly, though in the same clear sounding tones, she said, "Charlie, since that golden era when time began, love has ever been the destiny of mortals,-not absolutely necessary, perhaps, in an abstract sense, but an indispen- sable adjunct to happiness, and has been so since the ser- pent trail was upon its fair Eden flowers. Love is a fate to all. It brings joys to some, but my love has never pur- chased one moment of unalloyed bliss in lieu of long hours of anguish. It would be thus again. Idolatry, you are well aware, bears a trailing curse; the sin is closely allied with love, and old as time. I should entail it again. I could not love without giving myself up, mind and strength, to the idol of my worship, thus laying open the doors of my soul to the iron feet of the smiter. "I should be to you a living evidence that there are necessarily fearful retributions, seasons of just expiation, through which we are destined to pass. Though, as Ephraim of old, to our idols we be long joined, God has said we shall have none save him. In atonement, I am doomed to pass through a fierce conflict, a fiery-ordeal, with my heart laid low in the dust. Charlie! pity me-- friend--brother--do not tempt me to another sin, that of a blind, implicit, trusting, idolatrous love. I will not de- ceive you, and say it costs me nothing to renounce yours; but," said she proudly, "I feel equal to the sacrifice. The night has been long and dark, but I know the morn will dawn gloriously!" She had risen while she spoke. He raised his eyes in   ETNA VANDEMR.        181 pity now to hers. They were held as by some incompre- hensible alluring fascination. There was a look upon her face that he had never before seen there; it startled him into an unacknowledged fear, an unworded dread. Shadows weighed down the drooping eyelids of the day, and flitted like phantoms over the hearth, from which the crimson sunset glow had gone out, like hope from his life. "You are well aware," she continued, her eyes fixed on the gathering shadows, "that I indorse no theory which defines love-love pure and unalloyed, which I claim to be the essence of infinity-as an impalpable semblance far off and shadowy, hovering within the enchanted realm of the ideal,--a formless substance, rearing for itself a gorgeous superstructure upon aerial foundations,--a flower whose chameleon hues fade at the first faint breath of change; but I regard the one great love of the human heart as the golden cycle for earth's high hopes, and sus- ceptible of transmutation into a higher phase of existence, the life that will be ours when this mortal coil is loosed that binds us to earth's failing glories. There the ethereal element will preponderate, and resolve the material por- tion into a tributary source of life eternal, which is the essence of love exalted and purified. Just think, Charlie! one great lifelong love throughout those countless ages! It may be ours there, Charlie, but not here. No! the fetters upon its spirit wings are too gross. Its heart-aches and pangs are so many, earth jars upon the divine har- mony. It is scarcely worth the pain it costs. Earth is such a weariness to me, because there is so much of misery in the little life that is ours." Her tones were so pathetic that his heart shed inward tears as he looked upon her, gazing out upon the shadowy plain, desolate in the autumn twilight as her life was. His thoughts could not follow the range she took, and he waited patiently. She addressed him again. "I thank the great Father for his assurance, that in the earth-born crown of heavenly heritage for those bereft     182        ETNA VA NDEMIR. and stricken here there will be many flowers that blossom to bliss-pure gems; and its golden fruitage will be borne in that fairer realm, whose sunlight never fades, and the forms that made our lives so bright wilL never shrink from our clasp, or the lips we kiss grow cold and passionless beneath our pressure." He saw that the heaven of that old vain dream was mirrored in the channel of her thoughts. This train of morbid fancies and bitter memories had been the bane of her life, the inevitable result of her solitude. Her mind was left to prey upon itself, and tortured the weird images, the ghosts of fond hope, into fanciful expressions with an impalpable significance, which she translated into unto- ward messages of an attending fate. It was not love which she lacked,-and he felt this painfully, torturingly; it was faith and confidence. While thus employed, a great wall of cynicism had grown about her; and now, hopeless though he was, he spoke hopefully to her, while the same dark hands were weighing his own destiny. "Grace, I am sorry you feel thus. You are gifted and beautiful. Frown not upon the world: there are good things in it. Love dwells in it; and men are not all faithless." She looked incredulously up into his face. Ah! trust was gone, even in him, the tried and true. God help those from whom this gem is stricken, the brightest in the coronet of mortals, by a ruthless hand! Woman was not born for solitude: her place is in the great throbbing world around her; her sympathies are there. The many tendrils of her clingcing life wind back upon themselves if deprived of other objects; the faculties become warped and stunted, and exuberant streams from the fountain of a full rich heart flow out in unformed channels, wandering far from their source, when they bear no hopes upon their calm clear bosom. He realized all this and spoke,--sadly. "You have faith in none, Grace,-no, not one." "Yes,-in you, Charlie; but only as a friend. Oh! be   ETNA VAI'DEMR.        183 this to me. Ask nothing more. You have always been so kind, so considerate, so thoughtful!--will you not be always so? Say, Charlie, that the friend of those sunny days shall be mine still, in earth ever, in eternity forever." He spoke passionately, angrily now. She was not sur- prised, only grieved. Was it nothing to see those trea- sured hopes of youth and the love of years melt from him as a myth, a thing of air? "iNo, Grace; you have decided. Far be it from me to urge you from the path you have chosen. In the days of our youth you loved me; you did not scruple to tell me so again and again. Either a terrible change has come to you, or these words of yours prove those untrue. I have loved you ever, always, I would have loved you stead- fastly until death; you were dearer than my life. No man since the world began has cherished more constantly the image of her he loved, the memory of every word and look and act. I had thought that this glorious beauty, which had shone upon me, my guiding star afar back in the years, would shine on forever. I reproach myself for having counted so much upon what I might have known could never last. How then is the fond dream of years broken, its fragments lying at my feet, and its crash sound- ing in my heart!  Oh! Grace! it will sadden all my life, this weary blighting change!" And he bowed his face and wept. We know how terrible are a strong man's tears; they do not relieve his burning heart-only burn furrows down his cheek. Grace felt as though the world were gliding into chaos, to behold this firm indomitable will bent, swayed like a reed in strong winds. Soon in subdued broken tones he continued. "Some time, as years roll away and the gulf that sep- arates us has grown wide, your heart will recall me, for your maturer. judgment will pronounce this verdict of yours unjust; you -will then perchance learn that the stand- ard by which you judged me was wrong. The world     184        ETNA VANDEMR. abounds in better men, but it contains not one who will appreciate you so entirely as I have done and do. You were always good and true; God never gave to the world a nobler woman. I had no right to imagine for an instant that such a being would bestow upon me the coveted boon of her love; I was looking too high, and bitterly am I atoning for it. "Mcre friendships between persons widely separated, and having little in common, soon die out, and are gone. It will be sad to think we are drifting so far from each other on this broad sea of life, neither knowing what to the other befalls. One of us may be removed from earth, and the other never know when to weep for the lost. Would that it had never been so! Help me to forget- pity me, too; for I shall suffer long after you have ceased to regret me." She raised her hand imploringly; the gesture was vehe-, ment, and he ceased speaking, to look at her. Her face- was wildly radiant, as by some heaven-caught inspiration. Oh! in long after years, how in all its glorious beauty it nestled in his heart, as he had seen it last, until he beheld it in a coffin, with a mocking wreath around its icy fairness. Neither were her last wild words ever forgotten. "Ah! Charlie, you little know how wildly broke the waves of this fierce grief; how through the mazes of this long night of tortured agony and isolation, when no smile of earth or star from heaven lent its cheering beams to light the weary way, I have prayed that death miight come to me. Oftentimes I feel as though that reckless prayer would be answered, that the end was not far dis- tant. I have always had a prophetic misgiving that my life would not be a long one. This feeling came to me as a sounding doom after I had conquered the love that he did not prize-came with the first flush of victory. And now when I would live for Etna's sake,-and for yours too, Charlic,-for that of my best friend,-it lingers a   ETNA VANDEMR.        185 grim phantom by my side; no hopes can blossom in its shadows. "' Charlie! long I loved you wtth my whole heart. We exchanged our childish vows: you went away, and never were silence and absence so mute. Again you offered me your heart, and asked in return my hand. It was already given to another, whose love, embalming my own, stood between us. Now over all there is the shadow cast from the lowering wing of death. Earth will blossom no more flowers for me, save those that grow upon my early grave. These will be wild and spontaneous; no friendly hand will plant them there." She bent her head upon her hand. Slow tears trickled between her white fingers and fell upon the sombre robe she wore. 6"I know that I have been brave: I have conquered all but this," she continued; "and, Charlie, I know you would not wish me to go with you to the altar in its shadow. Do not let us part in unkindness. You say you will not be my friend any more; at least give me one of your genial smiles, and wish me God speed. Say, too, that you forgive me for the pain I have unwittingly caused your noble heart; say, after all my wayward speeches, that you will not change and grow cold. Will you not- my friend?" Her tones were tremulous and gentle as those of a little child. He knew her well. She was serious and earnest in the conviction of this phantasm illusion. He was well aware that, as she had been brave and strong, she was so still. He knew that language was weak and vain with which to word an appeal to resist or revoke the decree that had gone forth. How grand still was that wild fierce spirit in its gloomy isolation! No mortal had power to fetter it. He bowed his head, the great strong inan,-not now in tears, but in a bitter patience,-to her mandate who was not less loving yet stronger far than he. She stooped and kissed his cold brow, for the first, last time.     186        ETNA VANDEMR. Without one word of farewell he rose and left her; he dared not trust himself to utter it. With firmly com- pressed lips he went forth into the silver gloaming, as if he had grasped resolve with a last spasmodic effort, and was hul-ryingl on to some necessitous achievement, some strong inveterate purpose, while his heart, sinking beneath its crushed hopes, followed, oh! with what laggard steps! She sat longc after he had left her--darkness deep within. Without, the broad, calm, tranquil heaven of nilght bent down, the white expanse resplendent in the glory of an autumn moon. The great world, with its flit- tiIng sorrows, lay sleeping upon pillows that its own vain dreams made downy, beneath the bright-eyed stars, so faithful in their iwatching. And they two were parted, to traverse again the wastes that had longe lain between. Where was the beauteous future spread smilingly before her when lie left her last? Alas! the dream was vanished --gone; but the great weight that had then pressed his heart--ah! it was there still, after all those years, crush- ing mlore heavily now that he felt the burden might never grow less. Even to the most joyless lives there come brief seasons that seeml miniature lifetimes, whereas they are but inter- ludes between great events: yet we have become so ac- customed to the martial tread of these stormy griefs, that we find ourselves anticipating their approach with dread expectancy, and'oith a fear that is yet a wish we remain on our guard. Grace listened to the last cho of his footfalls with a stranlge burning in her cheeks and heart, a suffocating sense of calamity invoked; and with bitterness she- thought of the friendship of years severed by a breath. Memory in the past and hope in the future had expended their might against the bulwark of his strong will. She was unprepared for this.  She felt as if "an exquisite har- mlony in nature had ceased," and thick darkness over-   ETNA VANDEMR,         187 spread her life. After all these long days of thoughtful, kindly care, were they obliterated? must they never, re- cur again? She had not been near him for years; yet she knew-and there was solace in the reflection--that earth contained such a friend, and now it would be so no more. At least for this she was unprepared. She pressed her hand upon her heart; and, while a bitter pain was rankling there, she turned to the dread to-morrow with a patient despair, and a look that said, , What next?"It seemed as if a voiceless desolation were creeping with a chill into her warm blood. She sat down with Etna and Aunt Faith to the evening meal, with a vague foreshadow ing that the end was near. She heard the distant thunder of the crashing car, and recklessly she threw herself be- fore the grinding wheels. She rose unrefreshed with the morrow, after a sleepless night. The postman came, bringing her a letter from an old friend. She broke the seal. The missive was brief. What was there written to freeze her into stone?  Mute she sat while burning rods were tracing that startling in- telligence upon her brain. She gave no outcry; the wound was too mortal for such an indulgence. Oh! it was nothing--only the consummation of an interminable array of wrongs-the final blow. She felt as if an iron hand were grasping her heart; its pulses were stilled. The earth was crumbling beneath her feet, though the quiver of the last fatal dart was piercing still. With a strong effort she seized her pen and wrote, as oft before she had written, as a resort, an alternative to her tears, to her heart-bleeding, her isolation,-written when the words seemed coined, the structures woven from her brain- fibres. The bitter recrimination, the reactive gush of farerwell tenderness, the last fond message and regret- ful wail, the unalterable friendship,--all, white-winged emissaries, had gone forth to the uttermost, parts of the earth, and   brought their answer  back through this medium.     188        ETNA VANDEMR. The fatal hand crushed closer still as she framed these messages, the last, distilled from the frail remnant of vitality. Long after the hand was cold that traced the words, and the heart pulseless that through a congealing current poured forth its last gush of agonized tenderness, these sped on their way. The record of her life was traced from day to day, for her child's reading in after years. This finished, she penned two brief letters, dated and addressed them with steady fingers. Grief first makes giants of us, the more effectually to rob us when it takes our strength away. Swiftly the chill crept denser. Then a great soul-sickness seized her in spasmodic clasp. In a mist of dizziness, she rose, reeled and fell. How long she lay prostrate none knew. When Aunt Faith found her, the reaction had come on. A wild torrent, burning, feverish, swept through her veins, where the ice of this cold chilling grief of years had suddenly broken up. Through mazes of delirium, in the light of other days with phantom hope she wandered by his side once more in that sweet spring of youth and joy. Then throughout inter- minable nights she lived again this stormy grief. Then came the lethargy, in that long mute spell to bind her senses. How endless was the season to the living, suffer- ing hearts that watched by her side!--the stricken, deso- late one.   CHAPTER XII. THE HAPPY HOME - THE FIRST DEATH OF A HOUSEHOLD --THE "ETTER--REUNION OF THE FRIENDS OF CHLDHOOD, ' 'T is home where'er the heart is." EVERY human being at spme period of existence has dreamed a sweet day-dream of home. In youth, our hearts rest content in the paternal mansion, be it palace or cot- tage. With the dawning of our prime, a meteor flashes across our sky, circling in glorious brightness around the bridal altar. Its lingering light gleams upon the flowery labyrinth of the present, and gilds the unclouded horizon of the future with rainbow tints of loveliness. What beau- teous imagery traced by the hand of affection in the mind's gallery of life is dear as those pictures of home? In some enclbanted temple of the imagination, we behold the group, whose long-cherished semblance is stamped on our hearts in sunset dyes of violet and sapphire,-the altar of con- fidence with its sweet flowers of trust whose incense is borne along the shadowy vales of memory's past through long after years, perchance of grief and sorrow. From those Lares of worship in the heart's secret urn is wafted many a tribute to the viewless bourne,-that voiceless influence, touching with magic power the soul's hidden springs, awakening mysterious strains, sleepless, profound, that ne'er found echo before;--a precious odor'cast from the sweet wreath of affection upon the wild gushing stream of exultant life, that strayed onward through the world's 189     190        ETNA VANDEMR. blossom-scented vales, drifting slowly backward to its native heaven of incense-breathing harmony ;--the kindly smiles and answering tears,-the might and magic of the soul's subduing presence. Those beings are ours because in return for our devo- tion they give us love, which is life,--true life, in which heart and soul blend long-cherished dreams and visions in a blissful palpable reality,-a rare heritage of Eden bliss which in this sin-dyed world our aspirations may never reach. Alas! we rise suddenly some morn, and find all darkness where the light of hope had dawned: the meteor has faded from our sky. Like bats, our quiv- ering souls cling about the ruined arches of the beauteous ideal temple. The images therein enshrined, about which our hearts entwine, are crumbled into dust. In our deso- lation we utter an agonizing, despairing wail, that might rend the heavens did they not seem adamant, over idols broken and joys crushed and dying. Our hearts' heaven- born trust is dead, and buried so deep in a tomb of earthly pride, that in all our future years there may dawn no re- surrection morn in this mortal life. The wide, wide world is ours to wander through, dazzled and bewildered With pleasures that allure to fly, And joys that vanish while we sip, Like Dead Sea fruits, that tempt the eye, But turn to ashes on the lip." When the end of all comes, the world will give us per- chance six feet of soil, a final resting-place, but no other home. The fancy erects many superstructures of gigantic  magnitude and splendor,-Aladdin palaces, transferred in a single night to some bourne far beyond the boundary of Egypt's storied land, to a region where dawns no ray of light, whose lethean rivers are sourceless as its native Nile. No suns arise and set, no sweet flowers blossom in the desolate domain of oblivion, memory's desert world. Many, many pilgrimages have our souls made upon this   ETNA VANDEMR.        9191 waste of land and water called the Earth, and have found, alas! like Noah's dove, no resting-place; yet in our wanderings we have beheld two spots that seemed the fruition of all that the sons of earth might dare hope for, the realization of- prophetic longings, to so many wild and vain,-the embodiment of all our exalted dreams of home,-the blessed reals that arose upon the destruction of our glorious ideal, whose brightness dispelled the dark- ness of sorrow that enshrouded our desolate and cheerless lives. The broad acres, with their osage border, seemed some enchanted garden; the stately evergreens of Cedar Ridge, with their white statuary, gleaming symbols of past great- ness. The mansion with antique portico supported by massive Corinthian columns. The flowers that like gems dotted the locust lawn, sheeny with the million dewdrops from which the arrowy rays from the god of day, so beauteous in his dawning as he wafts his morning salute from Kentucky's hill-tops, radiate in myriads of quivering rainbows of joy-laden perfume. The majestic river like a sheet of quicksilver winds its liquid way upon the sunny margin of each. The first re- posing like a pearly gem in its emerald setting, where the Scioto pours its waters down into the Ohio, that with sul- len haste bears the clear crystal tribute southward; the last, where the roar of the rapids may be heard by its in- mates, and the stars and stripes, waving loyally from every point of the Falls City, may cheer the hearts who distrust Kentucky's devotion to her cherished banner. The kindly smiles ever beaming from faces so dear- ly beloved; the cheering word; the steady, trusting clasp of affection, whose hand guided and ministered even while upraised to defend; the sweet incense-breathing content; the calm fireside joy,-all, all were there. Hospitality sat enthroned in his native domain--a subject, yet a mighty king, not unmindful of the happiness of those around. Professor Holmes says, "There are recollections in every     192        ETNA VA NDEMR. heart, buried beneath the dead leaves of many summers, or perchance under the unmelting snows of fast-returning winters; yet if death should cheat us of one of them, we should not know ourselves in eternity." They come to us when the busy day with all its throbbing pulses is resting upon the bosom of evening,-in mournful cadences, sad, because our hearts may never live them over again,-borne upon soft-winged twilight zephyrs like Eden strains from a land beyond the clouds and beyond the sun,--lingering in our souls, a benediction when the service is ended,--a holy spell, a calm, to bless when storms are raging in our lives, desolating the Earth, uprooting the sweet flowers that once blossomed upon the plain that now stretches far away, a dreary waste, to the dim boundary of death's river. Our hearts love them; and not until the dream of our existence has faded and its realities become unreal, its forms impalpable, shall we cease to revere them. Such are the remembrances to which we cling through the midnight blackness of sorrow's night, as in the morn of joy, whose sun we know shall brighten when the blight has passed. They are the brightest roses in the wreath of vanished joys which we trust some kind friend will lay upon our coffin when our hearts lie pulseless beneath the prisoning lid. In characters of burnished gold and azure, tinted like the heavens above, they are inscribed in glowing col- ors upon the sybilline leaves of our life-tablet. The book is scaled and clasped with pearly words, to be put away in God's library of years with other hearts, for time and for eternity! In a sumptuous mansion in Broadway, Louisville, the vaunted thoroughfare of our western. world, might be pointed out to the stranger sojourner the beautiful heiress of Wilton; not less beautiful or attractive as the happy wife of Manfred Hastings, the dignified merchant, the high-born gentleman, the ardent lover, and devoted hus-   ETNA VANDEMR.         193 band,-merging all other attributes into perfection in this last. Success had smiled upon him; fortune had crowned his efforts; untiring industry and assiduous application to business had won for him the golden apple for which so many toil so vainly all their lives. He had achieved a competency independently of assistance from either family. They were very happy.  Time in the golden years past had left no visible land-mark to record his flight, in the beautiful home, save a bright-eyed, sunny-haired boy, and a dancing, fairy-like, rosy-lipped daughter. These child- ren were the gems in their crown of wedded bliss. The brow of Mrs. Hastings was serene in the home radiance, yet not less fair than when she in childhood had played in the shades of Wilton, or gathered pebbles with Grace upon the Susquehanna's banks.  Long ago, a shadow had fallen;--but waves of sunlight had closed over the little bark that went down so soon in the bright sea upon which it had been launched. And this shadow you remember, reader, thoush you  lbe mother, wife, sister, brother, when first the barbed shaft pierced your heart. The first death of a  household! Who with Mrs. Hemans' touching lines may not recall some such scene as this, when a little grave was hollowed deep under the winter snow? How the sun- shine fell blinding upon the crusted surface! -you could not even see the frozen clods with which they were cruelly heaping the bosom of the loved one they were burying from your sight. How they struck your heart as they rattled down   upon the coffin-lid- perchance a sister, a brother, a  child; or perhaps "4a grown-up grave," as the little boy said in telling of his father's. Our tears w ell up fron their fountains, when we, as casual observers, stand by the grass-groswn beds of those who have learned the world and its bitterness, by experience; but a sad rc- flection is the lost lite of a little child, whose eyes close to the beautiful earth when it is filled with light and glory; when springtime in a  glush flows on earth and sky; when brooks are singing and flowers are blossoming. "  J *- L-     194        ETNA VANDEMR. Ah! but Heaven has sweeter flowers, and more entranc- ing strains flow in fountains of melody from the great white throne of Him who said, "Of such is my kingdom." It was long since little Lucille went to sleep, as the morning fades into brighter noon, to waken in the heaven of a higher life, from the little grave which the snow- flakes wrapped tenderly, upon the March day when it was made. Gradually the keen pang had subsided into a deep and holy memory, so chastened and softened that it brought no pain; a calm sadness had succeeded the un- controllable outhurst of first grief. Only once in a great while did they recall the agony with which they had seen her fading day by day, the little hands and face burning with slow consuming fever. Very wearily and patiently she laid the little aching head upon the pillow from which it should rise no more save for the last dreamless sleep. With what patient endurance the little lips smiled in an- gelic sweetness! No complaint; no murmur. "How they watched her! how they wept! While the death-film darkening crept O'er those sweet eyes till they slept." One day, the finest since her illness, Mr. Hastings had gone to his place of business. Lucille was better, so he decided; she had spoken and smiled. Marion looked eagerly into the face of the kind-hearted though brusque physician, Dr. Reynolds, for a gleam of hope. It was hard to speak the truth; and yet he could not deceive her. He knew that even then the little hands and heart were grow- ing cold. He made no response to her importunate queries. Mr. Hastings impatiently threw aside his morn- ing paper; the lines were blurred, the paragraphs mis- shapen. He could not read, he could not work, with that weary, weary aching at his heart. He was returning when he met the messenger who had been sent for him. With stifled heart-beats he rejoined the family group kneeling in speechless agony beside the little death-stricken   ETNA VANDEMR.        195 one. Forgetting all precautions, he threw himself at her feet, in accents of wild despair imploring her not to leave him. His fond agonized words charmed her back for one a't  brief moment, as she lingered upon the brink of a bright sunny eternity, opened out for the failing vision of child- hood. With one last impulse and effort, in which was concentrated all of physical energy and earthly love, she threw her arms about his neck and told him of the bright home to which she was hastening, where the angels awaited her, and Christ, the good kind father who loved little childrdn, would rest her in his bosom; and with accents sweet as heavenly music (they seemed the tones of a seraph just from God), she said, "I love you all, papa dear; but I must go to Him: he wants me more than you do. He says, come ' See!" she said after a pause, as a beam of eternal glory through the half-open portal illumed the beautiful face; like a meteor it flashed up and faded with the remnant of existence. Those last words, how they thrilled the palsied hearts of those watchers! That ex- pression, how they trembled and bowed lower their heads in its radiance! They watched the little life as it sunk to rise no more. Amid a profound hush they listened; as waves of an eternal sea broke upon the earth-bound strand, they saw the little bark glide over it to the shining gates beyond. Oh! weary was the way through the dim wilderness the world was without her! How they could become inured to life's actualities,-with the dull aching void in their hearts, with the gloomy silence freezing round, more tor- turing to their racked brains than before had been the most tumultuous din,-they only know to whom experience has taught the bitter lesson. Kind friendly hands there were to array the body for the tomb, kind voices to speak words of comfort. They meant kindness; but oh! they knew not how torturing were their words while the little marble face smiled from its icy slumbers, the halo of ineffable peace on the pure     196        ETNA VANDEMMR still brow. Fragrant were the flowers she held, the tribute of a dear little friend, whose heart was bowed down with grief that his little playmate was gone to heaven, whither he could not go with her. Dear, noble boy! in the years of manhood thou mayst never lay offering as pure upon so fair and consecrated a shrine! How mockingly bright were the gleaming lights when they thought of her final earthly resting place. During the long, interminable hours of the night, strange forms kept watch by that clay. What need then for these? her thirst was quenched in fountains of eternal bliss: no healing potion or cooling draught availed now. The dawn dragged in its weight. How passionless and still yet the morning face! The funeral came, and the kindly voice that spoke peace, stilling the tumultuous voices of stormy grief. As in a troubled dream, they saw the coffin-lid closed above the sleeping eyes, shutting from them the bright smile, and she went from her beautiful home to return on earth no more forever. Over many miles of intervening space to NWilton, Mr. and Mrs. Hastings bore their dead. Oh! how weary, weary a night it was! A short time previous Marion had gone from its shades a bride. How soon she had returned bringing this sorrow back! All her brave resolutions of strength and fortitude vanished as she saw her grey-haired father coming down the gravel road to meet her at the inner gate, the sunshine resting like waves of glory upon him as he slowly walked the terrace.-Mrs. Elwood was with her during Lucille's illness at Louis- ville. Cold fierce winds sighed through the gaunt limbs of leafless trees, in the grove of maples down by the ford. The little sparkling stream was half bridged over with ice. In the Wilton churchyard the little grave was made, where the shades of the Glen forest trees would fall in spiringtime upon the limpid sparkling stream as it kissed the sods that grew abqve it. Aunt Faith told Etna that   ETNA VANDEMR.         197 the last thing Alee did before going away was to dig Lucille's grave. The old lady did not speak of the tears she had shed there-for she had learned to love very dearly the little fairy, who, in cursory visits to Wilton I :iiiiwith her parents, had spent a large portion of her time ei:   5^ with her, wandering through the deserted grounds at the -";   Glen. She said she was so dreamlike and spiritual, she always reminded her of Grace. :'!  That night the moon rose cold and clear in the cloud- less heavens-rose upon crisped lawns and leafless wood- lands. Shadows grouped upon slopes white in the still q::?   moonlight. Marion  parted the curtains and looked out upon the night. The pale silver sheen seemed caressing the new-made mound beneath which the golden head of her firsthorn lay, and the little frozen heart that loved her.   1o she loved thelightthat brightened that grave! She looke in a strange mystic spell always upon that :  day's sun and the moon that was shining there. !ow sad the parting! and how sad, too, the return home! Lucille's flowers were blossoming in the gardens, and the little wild birds came each morning still to be fed by her hand, and stood waiting vainly. There were toys to put away: she did not need them now.    There were no more fires kindled on the hearth of her little va- cant room. No more ringing laughter when little patter- ing feet rang along the hall to meet papa; no little piping voice, alternately uttering sage aphorisms and breathing words of love; no sweet lips wooing one last good-night kiss: only when in dreams the little cold ones came back again; and then--O heaven, the thrill! they were not Lucille's lips. 'Twas long ere the shadow of desolation passed. To those who only saw the surface, it was a happy home. Many a cynical anchorite, upon returning to his lodgings in the Babel of hoteldom, after having dined or spent an evening with Mr. and Mrs. Hastings, felt his theories of single-blessedness totter to their fall, in the light of the smile upon the lips of the happy wife, loving Vin     199        ETNA VANDEMR. and beloved. Time had gone by with its routineof cares; other children came-the bright girl and boy of whom we - spoke. The world saw not the vacant place at the family board, heard not the sigh for " the lost one that came not again." The genial expression was particularly radiant on the brow of Mr. Hastings upon the evening of which we shall speak, as he came in from the growing darkness without. Mellie and Harry were playing about the cheerful sitting- room. The mother had laid aside her work, and prepared to superintend the arrangements for tea. He came in with a mystified expression upon his face. "Marion, is not this Grace's handwriting? See: the postmark is Lewisburg; she must have returned!" Mrs. Hastings turned pale with apprehension as she took the letter tremblingly from his hand. The beloved, fami- liar hand! how long since she had seen it! For since Grace married Eugene Vandemir, and went with him across the ocean, voiceless as though dead had been her summer friend. With characteristic wilfulness, Grace had persistently declined to address one who refused to approve her heart's chosen husband. She trembled with suppressed emotion as she read. She knew how entirely crushed and broken must have been that proud spirit ere she had con- quered her rebellious heart and written thus. Tears of deep sorrow mingled with olden tenderness dropped upon the crumpled sheet she held in her hand. "Marion, my childhood's friend, come to me! I am dying. I have long been here alone. Come, Marion;- I am not too proud to ask you now to come." There had been a postscript added by Mrs. Elwood, who was with her, enjoining upon her daughter the neces- sity of coming quickly if she would see her friend alive. She bent her head upon the broad true breast of him who sat beside her, and shook as with a convulsion. Her heart overran, as memory went back 'to the bright season of youth, and the fatal love that had separated them.   ETNA VANDEMR.        199 She was interrupted by a summons to tea. Her hus- ' band did not inquire the cause of her emotion, but waited for her to speak, which she did after a time. "I must go to Grace, Manfred; she is alone and suffer- ing, and wants me. Will you go with me?" He sat abstractedly balancing his teaspoon upon the edge of the fragile china cup, in a manner evidencing the    perplexity of his thoughts. At length he spoke. "Really, Marion, I do not think I should permit you to go. Remember how unkind she was; and when you offered her your blessing at parting, she replied so haughtily, that she " required no blessing save her husband's presence;" -all because you chose to entertain and express a belief, prevalent in your household, that he was destitute of those high moral attributes that constitute the true gentleman." "And yet," said that fond wife, her eyes filling with mournful tears, " she loved him so much. Her reverence for his intellect, united with personal admiration, warped her judgment. I pity her from my heart. She is alone at her old home, and I will go to her immediately," said she, with a decision entirely at variance with her usual quiet submission to a stronger will. "As you will, Marion," said he with complacence. Like a sensible man, he always made it a point to yield when he felt that right and reason were against him. She made a few hasty preparations, and committing, with many judicious injunctions, the children to the care of Aunt Martha, her colored servant, she left on the ten- o'clock train from Jeffersonville. Her husband had ac- companied her to the station, and would have gone farther only he was compelled to plead inability at that critical juncture, "' the busy season;" and she, with characteristic independence, persisted in going alone. When the gray dawn was faintly streaking the eastern horizon, she was far on her way, with a proud consciousness that her duty was being performed. On sped the lightning train!"Woods and waving corn-     200        ETNA VANDEMR, fields and the abodes of men " flew by, a dim panorama. N'o voice was distinguishable amid the din of confused . sounds, and the occasional shrill whistle of the engine,-- a death-knell when we are leaving those we love far be- hind; a joyous sound when swiftly over weary leagues of space we are being borne to meet some object of the heart's allegiance. Upon the dawning of the second day the dim boundary of her native State was discern- ible above the grand old oaks that grew about Wilton. Oh! the happy days with that childhood's friend spent in its shades! Who should have dared then to dream of a sequel like this? She was so much absorbed, that she scarcely heard the voice of the conductor until the shrill tones fell a second time upon her ear. Then, leaning, upon the arm he offered her,--for he knew the daughter of Judge Ellvood well by sight,--she passed out as one in a dream. Her husband's telegram had preceded her, and she found the carriage of her father at the station to take her to Luna Glen. Since a child she had played on the graves in the church- yard, and gathered service-berries from the forked tree that bowed low over the stream, she had not crossed the mouldering gateway, the strong iron that like a reed had swayed in Eugene Vandemnir's (grasp, leading to the slum- bering ruin, theLynton mansion. A solemn mystery brood- ed over this house ; and now, with a suspicion not unmin- gled with terror, she recalled the strange fiigure they had often seen listlessly upon the knotted, twisted trunk of the hemlock-tree, with wild, terrific eyes like one in a trance. The expression had never left her memory. It came now, standing in the background, as this picture of mute deso- lation greeted her. There was mould upon the paved walk; the shrubbery was wild and tangled, stunted by the growth of rank weeds. The autumn woods wore a sickly hue, the pallor that precedes decay, With a nervous sinking at her heart and a faltering   I- I           ETNA VANDEMR.         201 step, she entered the mansion, and was soon sobbing like a little child on the bosom that had been her pillow in long ago. The arms of the sufferer clasped her, and she smiled; but the fierce blazing eyes were fixed on vacancy, and the stricken heart knew her not. 4,2 t I                 ^!  O', hi}     CHAPTER XIII. THE LEGACY  AND THE DEATH -TRUE TO     TIE B1TER   END. "O ' melancholy love! amid thy fears, Thy darkness, thy despair. there was a veil Of pleasure, like a smile midst many tears- The pride of sorrow that will not complain- The exultation that in after years The loved one will discover, and in vain, How much the heart, silently in its cell, Did suffer till it broke, yet nothing tell." BRB  CORWALL "O! colder than the wind that freezes Founts that but now in sunshine played Is that congealing pang which seizes The trusting bosom when betrayed." 00oe WAs this the autumn of a life whose dawning spring had been so bright? Why had this cruel blight fallen in the midsummer of existence?     Oh! how   inexpressibly mournful to Marion were the long hours of melancholy sadness during which she sat by her friend's side, hopeless of her recovery from the attack of brain-fever from which she suffered. Forest trees reeled in the low wail of winds, like drunken sentinels. The faded, crisped leaves eddied down in troops.   Susquehanna's waves kissed the shore in gushes of farewell tenderness, as they bore broken wreaths and fragmentary clusters of scentless flowers to the widespread bay that smiled upon their summer tribute. Chilling breezes sang a requiem in the ashen twilight for her who was dying,--" a dirge for her, the doubly dead in that she died so young." The moon came out, too, with 202   ETNA VANDEMIR.       203 a face of sadness, drawing a network of shadows upon the beauteous home of their youth. The rays dazzled not in their midnight splendor, but were pale and cold. Was this the same white-faced Luna, that, in floods of quiver- ing light, to the mutual vows of two youthful hearts had smiled her answer back, "Faithful unto death"? Faint gleams flickered down upon the mute, passionless, sleeping world, like the frozen gleams upon the face of a corpse. Hovering phantoms mockingly echoed back the response, made so long ago, "Faithful unto death." What cared the Aspasia who had woven her mystic fetters about his heart for these vows that she had broken, or caused him to break? What thought had either for the stricken form, or the pallid face pressed against a snowy pillow, with its wild dark eyes following him through the mazes between, never closing]n repose? The old cldck ticked mournfully the ceaseless march of time. Alas! he pauses not even by deathbeds to lengthen the last hours of agonized space before the crushing deso- lation comes. With sweet grace the watcher glided round, pressing tenderly the wasted hand as she administered the healing potion. The fire had burned low upon the hearth. Who has not felt the spirit-like, subduing hush, when a soul is slowly passing from time to eternity? Slowly one by one earth's bands are broken, as its days and hours grow less, waning gently toward the evening time of the long night, to which comes no dawn save the day whose bright- ness shall never end, whose sun shines upon the unfading glories of promised heaven. One cold pale ray, shining through an aperture in the blind, fell upon the pillow be- side the white face. The faint blue dawn blushed into tle golden rosy morn, and still it rested there like the last lingering of the vain dream for which she died. di   When she opened her eyes from the long lethargy, she found Marion by her side. Mrs. Elwood too bent over her with all the fond affection of other days, and she saw sitting in a dim corner the bowed form of her guardian                    iJ     204        ETNA VANDEMIL father. Ah! that old man was fearfully changed: he would have forgiven the prodigal now, had he returned; but he made no sign, and the erring one knew it not. Fondly the eyes of Grace wandered from one to another, as if searching for some person that was not of them, so sadly missed. There were two wanting to complete the group assembled on that other morning long ago. The same cold shudder and gush of waters ran through her heart in the tide of memory, and then came again the same fixed hopeless expression of enduring despair, that touched the hearts of those watchers as no words would have done. She pressed Marion's hand with a fond clasp, and said wearily, "I thought you woufd come." Then, after a long, touching pause, during which each had looked in the other's eyes and read the story of those long years, she said, "Where is Etna?" "She is at Wilton," answered Marion. "She is better there," Grace answered fitfully. "Oh, yes! I comprehend. This scene is one to cloud long the sunny hours of youth. She should not be here. Marion, she will be alone in the world. His family have other ties: I cannot leave her there. You will care for the orphan, Marion, as your father cared for me. She is wil- ful and impetuous: be kind and firm with her. I am sorry that I must ask this of you; but the day will come when you will not regret any care given to my child." No answer was given by the bowed form who sat be- side the dying one. The thin shadowy hand was pressed closer, and burning tears fell upon it. Choking sobs were heard-it seemed so strange to hear the voice of one who had so long hovered upon the confines of earth's boundary. The wave had ebbed far, very far out toward the eternal strand; it swelled high now in the last farewell gush ere it sank to rise no more. Whence comes the strength in the death-hour to speak so calmly of the approaching dis- solution,--" the wrapping of the couch's drapery" about a stiffening form for the dreamless final rest?   ETNA VANDEMR.  The bright eyes followed Marion as with gentle step sh glided about, smoothing a fold in the faded damask, rE newing the chrysanthemums upon the tall dark mantel c X     the chamber, or tempting the appetite with some delicac of which she knew her friend to have been particularc: fond in the days at Wilton. By many skilfully contrive; artifices did she try to divert her mind from her crushinv grief She spoke of their school days; it was a sweet sa( retrain in the past, breathing upon her bruised spirit E holy calm, drawing'gently, as with chords of divine love her soul back to its early trust. Ah! it was sweet to dis- cover that the seeds sown by the wayside, nurtured by suffering, were but needful disciplines. Now came the fragrant blossoming that preceded the glorious harvest, already garnered for her in the limitless hereafter to which she hastened. It was Marion's gentle hand'that removed the. scales from her eyes, and taught her to look for her inheritance and invoke the Power that alone could cause her to kiss with calmness the smiting rod that had stricken down her coronet of earth's bliss into the dust. The old bitterness was gone, and a sweet faith came in its stead. The link that bound her to earth was woven now round Marion's heart; for she had promised to be a mother to her child. There was something very touching in the tenacity with which she clung to this frail remnant of a former joy. The chords were very powerful. Thiere was a holy pleasure in thus gathering together the scattered links of earthly friendship, and weaving the golden bands into a deathless chain about her former friend. Who shall say that such ministrations are not blessed-pouring the halm of consolation into the torn and bleeding heart of a stricken one, whose faltering feet have grown so weary in the desert pilgrimage? And while each felt that the shadow of desolation was closing fast around them, Marion spoke of the power and strength that alone could sustain her failing steps. It seems strange that some lives should move in a gently un.     206        ETNA VANDEMR. dulating stream, quiet and placid, to the great ocean-tide; while others must needs force their stormy channel through mountain passes, breaking with wild vehemence against the rock-bound strand, and sinking into apathetic hush only when the tumultuous waves have spent their might in impotent struggles against a Divine ordinance. It was thus with Grace: she now accepted religion as a means of salvation. She felt that God was a God of mercy, and through his grace alone she hoped for pardon. O! how vain now, as she recalled them, seemed the old struggles and rebellion against fate! They were all over now. Her eyes wandered to the window far out upon the sunny slope,-rested upon the tall, gaunt, leafless trees, and the turrets of Wilton. Her hand sought Marion's, and she spoke. "How little thought I when I left that happy home his bride, that I was invoking this doom! I dare not think now of all the hours that he so fatally has brightened. That beauteous past! its record is eternal; angels around a throne above attest the shining bands. He will turn him back over the waste that lies between, to his past. Un- fathomed depths of mind and heart will again reflect the forms and scenes of other days, that even to him were brighter than any that dawn for him now,-for there was no unrest then to cast a shadow over his purer thoughts. Ah, yes! that springtime of the heart will come again; its flowers will blossom sweetly as of old: then will pure crystalline depths mirror the love he cast aside-per- chance a sigh or tear will come; and then he will turn back to his olden life again, his heart all the better and purer for the memories that live in it. But Etna, Marion. Shield her from the pain and the knowledge of all until she is grown; then give her the letter and the manuscript 1 have left. And now let me see her once again, for my time is short. My prayers have been answered: I am ready for the summons. Now listen for my last message. I do not blame him, you know," continued she bitterly.   ETNA VANDEMR.        207 207 "Aspasia's chains were weighty: even Pericles could not break them. There are others, too, that a few hasty words could not break. Tell him that I forgave and loved him to the last,-not ashe is now, so changed and cold and strange, but the idol of former days. He is happy in his new ties, and does not know of the struggles of this hour. Well, perchance it is better; let him behappy. ie would not feel it now; his heart is steel in the fire of its new passions."           t    fi  f its  She sank back exhausted. Eternity's dead sea was heavingm near; its breathless calm fell upon her wre she went out upon its dark bosom. In the few brief hours that remained of her allotted time, sweet hope loomed up where love, her sister star, had set in gloom. Then to the solemn stillness of that room came blissful strains exultant from that " eternity of blissful harmonies," from beyond the pearly gates, as her soul in the beauty and majesty of a holy trust, upon glorified wings took flight for its far- off home. There was a bright smile upon her lips when she went to sleep. Would the stricken friend who sur- vived her ever forget the words of that suffering heart that had been so " faithful unto death"? No, no! it was the last earthly wail, and thero was the echo of old re- gret, too, in the mournful cadence with which the wife and mother uttered the words, "Eugene! Etna!" There was sorrow wild and deep in the hearts of the kneeling group; and when they arose, they felt as if a worldwide shadow had lowered suddenly, darkening the face of all the earth. The aching void that she had borne was scarcely greater than that which she left in the hearts that loved her to the last. Among these there were none who realized the loss more acutely than did Aunt Faith Morton. The old lady was borne down by her own weight of years, and she had stood by many deathbeds in the old home, she said to Mrs. Elwood. She felt that her mission was well-nigh accomplished, though she would     208        ETNA VANDEM. remain there while she lived, and take care of the old house for Etna. Marion managed everything. She permitted no strange hand to touch the hallowed clay.  In her own fair bridal robes she was arrayed for the tomb. Her beauti- ful brown hair was unbound, and in rich wavy tresses , fell on her shoulders again as of old." And from the conservatory at Wilton Mrs. Elwood culled the rarest flowers for Grace,--a last tribute. Thoughts of her long absent though unforgotten boy were busy at the fond mother's heart, as she wove the white tea-rosebuds and fragrant heliotrope with a wreath of amaranth that Etna had made for the pure fair brow. They were his favorite flowers. Ah! little she thought that her last offering was given to Harry's child, upon whose life the murderer's curse had fallen. But it was all over now: the wild vain struggle was ended. The dead one's prayer was an- swered: she was delivered from the burden: life's tumult was hushed in the past. , It was not the mother's privilege to be by her child's side during the illness that preceded her decease. Marion had written to her that her daughter-in-law was very ill, but her amiable husband found it convenient at this junc- ture to be confined by the gout, and would on no account consent that she should leave him. Oh! how bitterly galling now she found the bands that made her powerless! Charlie Emerson had at her solicitation gone down to Lewisburg, and sent a daily messenger to Aunt Faith's to inquire of Grace's state. He had always written to her promptly on his return; and when it was evident that recovery was impossible, Mrs. Vandemir defied authority and came down at all hazards,-arriving, alas! too late. The services were held the second day after her death, administered by the venerable pastor of Wilton church. How solemn and impressive were his words!-"For here we have no continuing city, but one to come, an house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens." The text   ETNA VANDEMR.        209 seemed a most fitting one; it spoke comfort to the living, by thus enbalminig the hope of the dead.  Etna, radiant in her childish beauty, curls falling in clusters to her slen- der waist, sat in Judge Elwood's lap at the head of the coffin. In a strange mystic calm the little face was set. Only once did she give expression to her feelings, when she kissed she cold lips sealed in their angelic smile. By what harrowing process had that child learned so soon those lessons of self-control? Perhaps it was inherent, hereditary,--for we do inherit sensations and impressions, as other mental and personal attributes. Hence the likes and dislikes, to use a commonplace expression, or innate perferences personal or local. Perhaps an instinctive diffidence or delicacy restrained the outhursts of her grief;, in the presence of those assembled; she dreaded and shunned all such exhibitions to curious eyes. But in the- midnight stillness, with no ear save God's to hear her wild heart-breaking sobs, many wails were sent forth for that which was not,-which once lost in this life is never restored, -a mother's holy, shielding love. Toward the close of the services there was a slight com- motion in the assembled audience. A stately lady clad in mourning entered, leaning upon the arm of a handsome man. He seemed very young, and yet his brown locks held threads of silver. His face somewhat resembled that of Frederick of Prussia. A calm majesty sat upon it; yet there was a strange quivering about the stern lips, a vol- umne of unsubdued feeling in the wild eyes, bent upon the woman whom  for years he had so passionately loved. Hers was- the heart grown cold, his the head grown grey in vain. It was Charlie Emerson. And the lady who knelt by the still form, as he stood shading his face with his hat, and shook as with a convusion whilst her agonized sobs pierced every heart, was Mrs. Vandenmir. These manifestations of true feeling and heartfelt grief for the sorrowing woman who a few months previous had prayed so wildly the prayer of the desolate, had fervently "     210       ETNA VANDEMR. wished for death since the riches of this world's love were denied her, were indeed touching. Tears fell "From eyes unused to weep," called forth by the magic of her grief. Its mute appeals for sympathy had drawn hearts by the deathless chains of love to her side. Was this desolation-to be thus tended and ministered to by those who embalmed her at last in the folds of lasting love, in whose fond hearts she would live for ever? No; this was not even death. Our affections are undying. It was a long procession which followed Grace to her final resting-place. It was Marion's wish, and by the side of Lucille's another grave was digged! Upon the marble stone, tied with white ribbon, was a wreath of faded flowers. Marion's tears flowed fast: it was a sweet and eloquent tribute, springing from a lively sympathy, to their former friendship, an offering on the grave of her child. She knew that the hands now death cold by the little one's side had placed it there. Grace had woven it, and sat down to think of Marion's grief; of Lucille, and the little grave far over the deeps in the mountain's shadow; of the mysterious coincidence, when Charlie Emer- son had crossed the sunshine, and stood by her side under the hemlock-tree scarce two weeks before, as he now stood by her grave,-save that the hope had all gone from his face now, so calm in its wild despair. Marion felt that this sweet sympathy was the brightest link in the chain that bound her to the throbless heart upon which the valley clods were rattling down. There is an electric power in sympathy to break the mightiest fated seal that ever sat on human lips or closed on earthly pestilence. That night the sweet moon smiled down, as it had done upon Lucille's grave, on the newmade mound by its side; smiled from her cold throne upon the deserted house that   ETNA VANDEM1.         2" Grace and the mourners had left; wove a halo about the tall church-spire, and the faded chaplet on the tomb of the child; smiled serenely down as though earth were other than one vast burial-place for the sons of men-" a place to dig graves in," says Marvel. Yet we doubt if her caressing beams, in all their wooing witchery, could have won one smile from the sad lips of those clustering in the chill of that November eve around the cheerful fire, that so rejoiced in its own glowing warmth, upon the hospitable hearth at Wilton. At the request of Judge Elwood, all, including Mrs. Vandemir and Charlie Emer- son, as friends of Grace, shared his home for a short time. Aunt Faith, at the urgent solicitation of Mrs. El- wood, who was desirous of breaking the blow gently, if possible, to the old lady, came to Wilton, and remained in charge of Etna until Mrs. Hastings' departure for her Southern home. Luna Glen was deserted for a time. Only the pale cold moon, that looked down pityingly upon the resting-places of the dead, kept watch where their old trysts were held --where Cornelia and Harry had sat so long ago,-where Grace and Eugene had sat a few years past. Shadows flitted now over the cold white disk; but there were now no hearts to tremble in vague apprehen- sion for the future. And yet how that presaged desola- tion had been fulfilled! Three of these four were alive; one only had gone to her rest-the dreamless rest that remaineth for God's chosen ones. The others walked in the gloom and the shadow, thus doomed to walk to the end. Alas! how the soul stills its pulses of fire, When the flames at the fountain burn low and expire I Alas, that the heart with its music should die, Its echo forever be only a sigh! But O, desolation! thy mission is blest; Fold thy calm wings of the spirit unrest, And help all to learn a great lesson of thee; Before resurrection the dying must be.     CHAPTER XIV. ETNA INTELTFERES BETWEEN DR. HASTINGS AND HS FAIR EN- CHANTRESS--THE BROKEN TROTI--THE JOURNEY TO WILTON -HOWARD 'S VISIT--MRS. ELWOOD S NARRATIVE. READER; far backward with the tide of time we have gone through sunlight and shadow of other scenes since the evening we joined the festivities that closed the brilliant season in Louisville, the first series in which Mellie Hast- ings and Etna Vandemir had participated--the grand re- union at the house of Mr. Weston, when Nellie, the bright- eyed favorite of all, ever wearing her irresistible smile, ever ready with her repartee, played hostess so charmingly as to win Etna from her dark thoughts. Her love was the brightest gem in the circlet of genuine feeling that re- conciled the strange girl to her empty life. As we said before, Howard Lorraine had long since re- turned to his home at the North. How sad and sorrow- ful seemed in memory the day of their parting, when she seemed so agitated and ill, yet with so strange a calmness spoke the cruel words in answer to his wild appeal! Very often, since, he had recalled those words, and wondered what that fearful ban might be. Yet with manly delicacy he forebore to importune her, nor would he have sought to know what she seemed disinclined to divulge. His uncle, to whose guardianship he had been recommended as an orphan boy, was his only known rela- 212   ETNA VANDEMR.        213 tive save a cousin bearing his own name, residing in the southern part of France. Thither it was his intention to repair at an early day. He was- unfitted for business; the blow his hopes had received had paralyzed his energy. He only wished to be able to see Etna once again. He did not think her capricious; and yet, if she really loved him as he had reason to hope, that love should surmount the obstacles interposed by all ordinary business. If she loved him not, then would he hasten to place a wide sea between them. This insuperable barrier, whatever it might be, had come to her knowledge since they parted. It had affected her strangely; and the fragmentary know- ledge he had inadvertently gained of her former history and that of her mother only served to mystify and perplex him the more completely. Dr. Hastings had remained but a short period at the inland town upon which he had fixed-as his former resi- dence, until he was offered a copartnership with an old and influential physician of high moral and social standing, owing to his discovering, in an incidental consultation, a remarkable proficiency in surgery.  He had devoted himself mainly to this branch of the profession, from pref- erence, and to the assiduity with which he had applied himself was he indebted for his present position. But in his return to his home, his heart went not back to its old allegiance. And yet perhaps Mabel Winches- ter had never achieved a more durable triumph than this that her wondrous beauty and  superficial accomplishments had gained. In the first flush of victory, with the clear bugle-notes that sounded the charge still ringing in his heart, the con- queror pauses not to count the ruin wrought to obtain it. Bef're his departure he had proposed, as Miss Winchester intended he should, and was of course accepted. He spoke to Etna of his approaching marriage. If Howard   Lorraine could have seen her then, as, pale and trembling, with tears streaming from her eyes, she told     214        ETNA VANDEMR. him the story of Mable's duplicity, her falsehood and dis- sembling, and besought him in the name of all he held dear to desist from casting his heart's happiness on such a die, he would have thought, despite Etna's assurance to the contrary, that his cousin's words were true: she loved Dr. Hastings. "Harry! brother!" said Etna, "would you thus sell your soul? Do you not know that one so heartless does not love you? She wants a husband; your position suits her. She will not deceive you! Ah! this is worst of all, this cold-blooded, calculating intention. There was one whom for paltry considerations of wealth and position she cast abroad, drifting heart and soul upon a ruinous sea from which an early grave had delivered him." He put up his hand imploringly, with a gesture of im- patience and disbelief; but she continued rapidly and fearlessly, as one having a painful duty to perform would hasten to its close. "You remember Allan Stewart? We stood by his grave when the frozen snow lay cold upon it. Now the spring flowers have blossomed there, with this love in your heart for his murderess. I will tell you all: you should long ago have known. You were with him in his latest hours; you can doubtless recall what Mr. Lorraine told you con-. cerning his death? You know, too, his wild ravings con- cerning his love, so crushed and broken, and how the last sound that passed his lips was the summing of a lifelong hope in the name of her he loved. And the burden of that re- quiem, what was it? Mabel Winchester! The woman who crushed your dearest friend, you would take to your heart as wife. No! no! Harry, it would kill me!" lie uttered an appalling groan, as though his heart had been rent in twain by the severing it from this strong love of his manhood. He well knew that her words were true. 'T was those lips, whitening as the death chill grew upon them, that had uttered first in his hearing the name of Mabel Winchester. ' His Mabel!" so thought his dead friend.   I:            , ETNA VANDEIIRm.       215 For a long while they sat in silence, she deploring the necessity that she had deemed imperative, of inflicting pain upon his noble heart. It was not without a pang of self-reproach that she reflected upon his cheerless life with its wasted hopes. Had she been convinced that Mabel's motives were not wholly selfish, could she have put faith in her love for him, she would have sacrificed her own feelings, and striven to overcome her repugnance to the union; though she could not have repressed a shiver at the bare suggestion. At length he arose. His pale face told her all the struggle had cost him. She read his decision in the stern eyes. After all, this is but the old story: another human heart severed rudely from its anchor of trust, drifting on- ward, aimless, objectless. 'T is the mask that we must needs wear, that makes the gay world seem oftentimes the mockery it is. Spring came, dispensing light dews and smiing showers -Se ws sm ling showers, warm fragrant airs like the breath of angels straying earthward, and such a wealth of grass and foliage sprang to life and light as makes us dream of green pastures and still waters where the redeemed shall wander after their long straying, to the glorious light of the Father's smile that Eve lost for us. Flowers lay like opal gems upon sunny plains, and nature wore her joyous Maytime expres- sion, singing Songs of thanksgiving and praise. Oh! vho at this season does not list the voice of memory singing in sad unison with t'he silver voices that chaunt the benison of the world's spriingtime? The siren-voiced present has nothing sweeter in its calendar of charmed sounds than this echoing, vibratingo melody, unworded strains from the heart-music of other days. Calmly in the great sea of life close the waves alove the locality where a mighty hope has gone down. Sunshine unpityingly lights the bubble on its surface, and we smile conpulsorily as the old landmarks are swept away. Dr. Hastings had written Miss Winchester a note, in which,     210        ETNA VANDEMRC without explanation or comment, he released her from her obligations, proudly withholding from her the privilege of any voice in the matter. It was decided that his sister and Etna should spend the greater portion of the season at Wilton, where Dr. Hastings proposed to join them be- fore making a tour of the Northern and Eastern cities, terminating by a few weeks' sojourn at Saratoga or Cape  May. The hours of busy preparation that preceded de-  parture were filled with diversified anticipations. Mellie longed for the expected gaiety at the watering-places they would visit, rather than for the calm quietude of Wilton. And Etna wished in her secret heart for the pleasure of meeting Howard again, although her judgment frowned so sternly on her heart, that she made no more such admissions in the hearing of that faithful monitor; yet she longed to test her own strength, that she might glory in her pride of triumph. What a strange, contra-  dictory sentiment is love, rejoicing in its self-imposed I sacrifices, and smiling the requiem of its own fond hopes!  The journey was a pleasant one. Up the broad beauti- ful Ohio they passed in a luxurious steamboat, pausing once  for rest in a beautiful wayside home. Etna had many bright dreams and visions, yet none like those upon which a bright day-star of reality had risen. There was a foun- tain whose under-current was invisible to the casual visit- ant, yet from whose pure source she drew the strength of rectitude and high-souled honor, that commanded rever-  ence. Rosy hours were they of their sojourn, and they flew swiftly, quickly by. They soon learned that it would cost them much to bid adieu to this sunny home and its summer friends. The burden of Etna's wish-- a wish so ardent that it was almost a prayer-came to her, that the brightest smiles of an approving God might hover, with the halo of their earthly love, about  this treasured, united home circle. Never did she so ardently long for a home whse idols might be her own  always, by right of possession and ties of blood, as during    ETNA VANDEMR.        217 her visit there; and sorrowfully she realized, while part- ing tears were yet warm on her cheek, as the boat pushed out from shore and she heard the bell toll a farewell, that with each moment miles of land and water were growing between those dear friends and herself,-that there were deeps in her heart stirred by the incense from this conse- crated home altar, that would never sink into their dead apathetic calm again,-and a restless longing in her soul for something higher and holier than anything that her butterfly existence offered. The voice had spoken; it would never again be hushed. What wonder that the immortal soul, dying, perishing, writhing in its fetters, should have found courage to utter at least one wail amid its tortures? Would it ltd never slumbered again! The incidents during the remainder of the journey were few, unworthy of note, save that, ii compliment to Mellie Hastings and herself, the kind-hearted captain had landed' that they might, in pursuance of an expressed wish, explore the beautiful island of Blennerhasset. Those words of divine prophecy came to her: "How is the strong staff broken, and the beautiful rod!"Aye, even as this once beautiful home was devastated. The walks--or rather where they once had been, for they were not now-were overgrown with rank weeds; the consecrated shades were entangled in a unatted overhanging wilderness. Etna looked upward, vainly endeavoring to discern the smallest patch of blue sky through the intervening wilderness. It seemed as though- nature had conspired to hide this sor- rowing island, that mourned the presence of its monarch, from the sunlight of her smile again. Clusters of white dogwood blossoms were interspersed with dense foliage, looking like reflected stars in a still sea of green. The hand was powerful that wrouoht the ruin here, and the spoiler had well achieved the meed of his toiling de- signs. But more sorrowl/ul still was the ultimate fate of him whose heart had sanctioned, whose gigantic mind had planned it. He lived to fild himself wilb-I     218        ETNA VANDEMm. less, childless, friendless, homeless ; a pauper's death and burial were his requital. His good qualities were many, if his faults were great. He also sufferepe much; yet with a temerity that commands still, as it YwCe won our school- girl admiration, he stemmed unharmed the torrent of vile envious calumny, and stood firmly poised while thousands would have gone down. His genius and intellect had far outgrown and warped his moral nature. He employed his own hands in the labor, in the performance of which many proud statesmen made petty tools of their inferiors: hence the execration that posterity has heaped upon him. Blennerhasset we regard as participator and coadjutor, not merely, as some have averred, an instrument of his designs and purposes. Parton's was a glorious task- that of divesting stern-faced faults of their malignant covering, so that they summoned sympathy as the weakest foibles; and yet he extended his labor not an inch beyond the limits of justification-not even to the boundary of charity, which all men, no matter what their shortcomings, should receive at the hands of a fellow-mortal. A pleasant breakfast at the Monongahela House in Pitts- burgh, and they took the cars for Wilton. No further pause was made, save a Sabbath's rest at lMcVeytown, with friends; and the hospitable smile of welcome was so sweet and sunny in this quiet precinct, that they turned less poignantly back to the sweet home where the two bright rivers formed their junction. The days and hours of either, as they lingered in their smiles, would never be forgotten by the young travellers so long as the great sun of life's casualties should rise and set upon a world of change. Wilton again! Its sweet walks and belting of grav- cllcd roads; the embroidery of flowers upon the wide- spread, smiling lawn; its fountains sparkling, sporting in the glad sunlight; the white turrets gleaming still against the blue heavens, bright as when in childhood they un- furled their broad banners befo ththe sunny, trusting lives   IS  .       E$TNA VANDEMR.        219 of Grace and Marion. The octagonal wings were dark- ened somewhat by the mist of time, but the days and hours were still bright as then. Upon the old moss- grown seat under the hemlock tree Etna found herself seated at an- early hour. She had not courage to explore the old rickety house where her mother had died, so long tenantless,-for Aunt Faith, too, had gone to her rest. During those days she lived years in retrospection. One afternoon she had made her way through the tangled blossoming grass to her mother's grave. An orphan wail went echoing through the dark old woods; hot tears fell ' with the last rays of the sinking sun upon it. The great world in which she had moved since she left her sleeping there had recorded many changes. This alone was as she left it. She had not long sat there, when she :involuntarily raised her eyes to behold Howard Lorraine standing before her.  The hot blood surged into her face, then back into her heart again.  She felt her strength fast leaving; her strategy now lay in speech. To this subter- fuge she resorted, though she heard not her own words, how cold and cruel they were. "Mr. Lorraine! after our parting, I am much surprised, I might truthfully add, wounded and grieved, to meet you here. Despite her  determined effort, her voice trembled slightly.  He answered proudly and haughtily. "Your pardon, Miss, for my intrusieft. Dr. Hastings wrote me to meet him here, adding that you had been some time absent.  I took the liberty of forestalling his arrival in the hope of meeting you again alone. ly heart dictated this course: was I right?" said he more gently. "You were not!  You have not respected my decision, that we should not again meet." She did not dare look into his face or meet the expres- sion of his eyes when she spoke these words. She feared their look would have turned her from her purpose, for     220       ETNA VANDEMR. which with a last effort she was nerving her sinking heart. "Etna, are you trifling with me?" How the suffering of each had dispersed forms and ceremony in mist as weightier thoughts oppressed them! "No! I am too candid, it seems!"  she returned coldly. As they walked slowly toward the house, neither found words to speak again. The strongest man is weak in his love, or in the endurance of a sorrow that this love en- tails. He who single-handed feels equal to the task of subverting a world, cannot bear that such a power, oper- ating through such a medium, should vanquish him. Hence the great struggle before they can relinquish hope. He spoke very bitterly now. "I was once blind enough to imagine that you cared for me: you yourself gave me reason to think you were not -wholly indifferent. I have oftentimes imagined I detected something of tenderness in your tones, in your manner; but this was only the result of my own exclusive infatua- tion. It seems you have not even a humane regard for my feelings. Do you not imagine I must have relished such a reception from a fricnd to whose house I had been previously invited?" "I humbly beg your forgiveness; but you tried me so! I am sure you are welcome, both as his friend and my own." Tears fell upon his hand as he caught her own. They burned in his flesh. The tide of feeling swelled in his heart. He sank his voice low to the tone that ever thrilled her proud heart with a strange mystic power, whose ecstasy in her lonely hours she would have endured years of suffering to purchase again. "Etna, tell nie only this once, and I swear never to importune you morc,-but only tell me; it will be so sweet to hear it from your lips,-tell me that you love me, and I will have strength to endure all that may follow." 2   ETNA VANDEMRn         221 He clasped both her hands and strained his eyes down into her face for her reply. She stood for some time irresolute, pondering the prudence of her response. He was going away, he told her; they might never meet It;   again: and with this thought a volcanic torrent from the : -   depths of her nature swept away all minor considerations,   and love stood supreme in its mighty strength.  She spoke slowly and firmly, as though weighing each word X:  bshe uttered. "Strangely inconsistent as my conduct seems to you, Howard,-as I have never loved before, as I will never love again, I have loved and still love you. Trifle with you! I would this day and hour cross a river of fire to serve you, or avert one pang of what must fall upon you now. There is nothing I would not bear for you; but, marry you!-no, never! Do not ask me again. I am very, very proud, Howard, and would not like to tell you why. A few hasty words of a classmate at the Institute made my decision. Even my love, all-powerful and engrossing as it is, will never cause me to revoke it. I have told you this; I have in return one request to make of you. This it is: That you will never even remotely recur again to this subject." "I promise; and will you in turn promise me that you will never give your hand to another?" She smiled a strange sad smile in which he read his answer. He declined accompanying them on their Northern tour, as Dr. Hastings had suggested; however, to appease his host, who was very old and childish, he consented to remain a short time. During these few days they sat often side by side, each loving and knowing that the other loved, each wearing a hollow mocking smile while the heart within was sinking in its unvoiced despair. One look at their parting he gave her. Oh! what a weight it carried to her heart! Heavily it pressed when Wilton's walks and shades echoed his footfalls no more. How near he was still, and yet in the calendar of fate how far away!     222        ETNA VA NDEM1R. c"Harry. is coming," said Mcllic, bounding down the steps in her white morning dress, going out to the walk to meet him as he came from the early train. "Is Lorraine here?" were his first words after greet- ing those assembled. "He was," said Mellie, " but he has gone again." He glanced at Etna, who blushed guiltily: well she knew how bitterly her adopted brother would oppose what he deemed her caprice. To her relief, however, he did not again refer to the subject. There was a careworn, suffering look upon his face that tortured her deeply. She guessed that the struggle was ended, however, though its effects were thus palpable. One day, the last of their stay, Etna sat upon the verandah looking after Mellie, who, in her green habit and white plumes, on her cream-white pony, was sweep- ing round the course by her brother's side, when she was summoned to Mrs. Elwood's private apartment for a homely chat. She was much surprised to discover tears on the old lady's cheeks. She beckoned Etna to sit by her side, her hands crossing each other abstractedly, as though painful thoughts were at her heart. Mrs. Elwood was blunt of speech, and came immediately to her subject. ," My child, you have ever been gentle, tender and affec- tionate to me, though wayward and sometimes willful to all others. Have you strength to hear what I will this day reveal to you?" ;"Yes," murmured Etna tremblingly, with dread appre- hension, anticipating revelations confirming her worst fears. In her trite, pointed manner, Mrs. Elwood pro- ceeded to speak the thoughts that oppressed her. "You are no foster-child, Etna, as you and all of us have believed; it is a tie of blood that unites us. I will tell you the strange story." Etna bowed her head upon her hands and shook as with a convulsion. It was all confirmed by these few words. Then it was as the wilful girl at Madam B--'s had insinu-   ETNA VANDEMR.        223 ated. Her dead mother was the child of sin, and she was doomed to bear the shame. Mrs. Elwood, never heeding her emotion, supposing it natural, proceeded with her nar- rative. What I can remember of your ancestors runs back to the time of my marriage, so long ago--for, Etna, I am a -H  very old woman now. The old house at the Glen was in the full blaze of its glory then ; its lights ever shone bright in genial welcome, and your grandfather exercised the prerogative of a princely hospitality. My son disten, child) had a playmate in their only daughter Ellen. Years passed swiftly then-their feet tread no thorns;- she soon grew to womanhood. None ever boasted a bon- nier eye, a sweeter voice, a more unremitting flow of viva- cious life, than did she upon whose changeful vicissitudes hung the hopes of many allied to her. There were many worshippers at the shrine of her beauty. Oftentimes the most confident were compelled to take refuge in their wounded self-love from some capricious mistreatment; yet so entire and absolute was her sway, that she never could bring her red'al lips to speak the words that would recall them, after she had once sent them away,-never though she should die of sorrow in the event of their absence. Her nature was an odd mixture of clinging tenderness and repul- sive hauteur, blended as the flash and cloud that precede a summer storm, so strangely complicated and yet so distinct. I knew that Ellen and Henry loved each other; but there was a gentleman visiting there that season with Mr. Lynton's sister, Mrs. Emington,--Robert Everett,--whom they were anxious she should marry. Mr. Lynton opposed my son's suit so violently, that he vowed never to cross his threshold again. Henry about this time went to New York to live, having first secured a scrupulous advocate for his cause in Mrs. Emington, who returned to the city in the autumn, taking Ellen with her. We heard nothing from Henry for months; then came a brief note stating that he had mur- dered a man named Vandemir, and was compelled to leave     224        ETNA VANDEMR. the country, requesting us to address him immediately, at some seaport town in the South rom which he expected to embark. Your grandfather was seized with convulsions so rapid and violent that I feared for his life. He recovcr- ed sufficiently, however, to write him, which he did, using the most violent language,--telling him with imprecations and reproaches, as he revered the family honor he had trampled under his feet, never to show his face again in the home he had disgraced,-renouncing as son the man who had imbued his hands in another's blood. There was no pretext, in his view, sufficient in the slightest degree to palliate a crime so heinous. During his life, until you came after your mother's death to remain until Marion should take you to Louisville, he never could bear to hear his son's name uttered, or that of the man whose life he took. This is why he opposed your mother's marriage so violently. Your father, my child, was a younger brother of the Vandemirs, whose few hasty words made a lifelong breach between two hearts that loved each other, and sepa- rated them forever. There is much that is mysterious, un- explained, much that I wished to know concerning the affair, but your grandfather strenuously opposed any inves- tigation, and I am yet ignorant of facts in the case,-and more particularly this: why the blow was stricken. I am convinced that the boy must have had some cause. Perhaps he was intoxicated, and had no power to resist the demon that guided his hand. I hope it was uot de- liberate. "Francis Lynton, who had gone to New York about the same time, returned, bringing Grace, your mother, with him, and reporting Ellen dying. Somehow the impression was received in the neighborhood that Francis Lynton was Ellen's husband and Grace's father. The family at the Glen never contradicted this,-rather confirmed the report by giving Grace her mother's maiden name. I think this may be accounted for from the fact of his pique and anger when he discovered that the young couple had O   ETNA VANDEMR.        225 outwitted him. He went on immediately to New York in a tempest of rage. After he returned his lips were scaled. He was never again heard to utter either his daughter's or his sister's name; but he was always fond, tender, and indulgent to the little child, whom in dying he bequeathed to us. The supposition was that Ellen had died, though I marvelled that her father did not have her brought home for interment, more especially after her recognized hus- band, Francis Lynton, died of a fever soon after his re- turn. I have ever since retained this erroneous impression, until, A few days since, when Mellie ard yourself had gone for a few days to Danville, I received a letter from Ellen. She is now and has long been the wife of a wealthy mer- chant in the greet metropolis, a few weeks since deceased. She informed me that Henry still lived, and made inqui- ries concerning you,-it seems knew your whereabouts, and has sustained a mother's care for you. She bade me tell you all, and ask you if you would go to her. She prays that you will live with her; she can give you every advan- tage. But I should not advise such a step. The atmos- phere of her stately home is not what I could wish for you, darling. I enjoy my little volcano, and would not like it naturalized. She would soon make a hothouse plant of you: you must not go ; we need you. You bear her name; she claims that you are hers by strong ties of blood: but I would not have you go." Etna of course supposed that there were othe& reasons that her grandmother had withheld, judiciously and charit- ably, in her own estimation; but she did notquestion: her heart seemed too near broken. The old lady continued to talk on and on, and Etna breathlessly to listen. "Young people's hearts are often stronger than their heads. It was the case with Ellen and Henry. It was likewise the case with Grace and Eugene Vandemir. Your mother would take no advice. Your father made a dashing appearance: he was young, handsome, and fasci- nating, and made fair promises; and she, trusting and happy, 15     226        ETNA VANDEMR. went away with him. It almost broke our hearts to part with her. It seemed as though I could foresee the result, and knew what the end would be. ," After long years she came back, so desolate and alone, to die, she said, in peace in her old home. We wished her to come again to Wilton, but she steadfastly refused, assigning as a reason that she preferred to be alone. I knew that she felt our kindness would be a reproach to her. It was so sad to observe her pining day by day; yet so proud and haughty she was that she would receive pecuniary assistance from no one, more especially from Eugene's mother, who visited her quite frequently, and came to look upon her after she was dead. She remained then at Wilton for a few days, and her face perplexed me strangely ; it seemed identical with something in my mem- ory. She gave me her card at parting; it was engraved Cornelia Vandemir.' She writes me that her aunt changed both names in adopting her. Charlie Emerson was with her. He had loved your mother ever since he was a little child. This was the match we wanted Grace to make. It did not seem much as though she was for- saken, to see how her old friends flocked around her when the knowledge of her trial became general. Except to Marion, she spoke no word of hil who had broken her proud heart. Oh! if I had only known she was Harry's child! Some unknown benefactor had addressed a pack- age to me containing funds requisite to defray the expenses of her tuition. I cannot reconcile myself to the fact of your grandmother having renounced her child as she did, and not even reclaiming her on the death of her father; but until we understand all that is now mysterious, it is not kind to censure. I presume she did not wish to cast a stigma upon her name. Murder in those days, my child, was an enormous crime, and not held in as light estimation as it is now. Then stern justice was often vindictively meted:  a life for a life' was the adopted system,--the unfailing penalty of such a deed.   ETNA VANDEMR.        227 Mrs. Vandemir wrote me that Henry was in South America. And I often think of him, reared in luxury, a wanderer in those forest wilds. I dreamed last night that he came home, and requested us to send for you, and this day I have had his room set in order." Etna followed, whither she led the way, to a spacious opening from a corridor in the L of the house. She thought her mind was wandering; this was the first intimation she had ever received of this wayward son of Wilton. The first object that met her eyes was a portrait of the young face so fixed in his mother's memory. The youth was at- tired in a style befitting the fashion of his day. How high was the-white brow! how clear and radiant were the beautiful eyes! Etna could not think that dishonor shone in their regal depths. After all, the face and eyes are true indices of heart and soul. The huntsman's suit was neatly folded, and the gun stood in its ebon rack, as though mutely waiting for the fingers that touched the springs long ago. "I may be wrong," continued Mrs. Elwood, "but I sin- cerely believe that some day he will come back, before I die. The only man who could prefer a charge against him is dead, and there is nought to keep him longer away." Etna gazed upon her aged grandmother, with a tender- ness that she felt for only one other human being, as the old lady, in that garrulous strain indicating a second childhood, continued to talk. It was with a pang that she remembered how rapidly she was failing, and thought, if her boy saw either parent, his return must be soon. "We must got him a new horse, for of course he will want to hunt again; though this region has become so thickly settled that people do not hunt so much as form- erly." Her love had gone with him a youth abroad into the great world, had followed hin clingingly through the years, knowing in its primitive ardor and freshness no diminution, feeling none of the changes that time had     228        ETNA VANDEMR. wrought. To her he was still the dear wayward boy of other days. Etna suggested, "Perhaps he would not wish to hunt now. I think you would find him changed. Remember he Would be almost sixty years of age now." "He may have changed, but he has the Elwood eyes, and they never chanre; his father's are still bright as when we were married. You have just such eyes, Etna, and they will never change till closed in earth forever. I should have known our relationship from your eyes-only they are much blacker than those we claim. It seemed as though Etna could never grow weary gaz- ing upon the frank open face that smiled down from the canvas so regally. She mused long and earnestly upon the story she had heard, so strangely complicated. Though it seemed very probable that her grandmother, the donor of those fiery gifts that had so puzzled her in childhood, should naturally enough not wish to go again to the home from which she had been banished, where each childish scene was a mute reproach for the act of deliberate dis- obedience that had laid her life in waste. She too thought with her grandmother, that, as his Nemesis was dead, he would perchance return once more, and remove the stigma from his house. She did not wonder he had not returned before to find his wife in the home of another. This was hardest of all to comprehend, if his wife she really was. -Her reflections were interrupted by her grandmother, who had picked from the fireplace a crumpled piece of paper, the faded characters of which she was vainly en- deavouring to decipher. .Etna read: "Dearest Ellen: Meet me at the Ford beneath the hemlock this evening." This made all dark again. What did these clandestine meetings portend? Her soul was sick and sinking at each new discovery. She listened to the clatter of hoofs, then gay voices. Mellie and her brother had eturned, and she went down to join them in the sunset of their last day at Wilton.   CHAPTER XV. NIAGARA--NEW YORK--VISIT TO "LONG BRANCH "-AN TNTER- VIEW--NELLIE'S ILLNESS--ETNA RETURNS HOME-JUDGE EL- WOOD S DEATH. UPoN the following morning the party left Wilton, and proceeded imnmediately to Niagara, only tarrying for a few days at Mr. Emerson's, who joined them with his family. Etna laid aside her gloomy thoughts, and, united in the spirit of those who had determined to seek enjoy- ment, as a, matter of course found pleasure. Sunrise upon Niagara! How impotent is language even the most powerful to portray such a scene! how weak the attempt to record impressions that in unspeakable grandeur succeed each other with the rapidity of lightning flashes! The torrent thundering in gushes and roaring in strength in mighty cascades over gigantic rocks, into the wilder- ness of mist and wave below; then rebounding with an elasticity that seems incomprehensible,-diverging into sunlit vapors,-distilling crystal drops from which some unseen hand traces myriad smiling rainbows upon the bright morning sky. How mighty the hand that gathers all together! Etna had climbed to the highest peak of Prospect Tower, and stood gazing down in mute admiration. It was a scene that never faded, Niagara as she had seen it first. The village hotel and church-spires gleaming in the sunlight; the wonderful bridge suspended midway 229     230       ETNA VANDEMR, between river and sky; the beauteous, blossoming, grassy plain, pasturing numberless herds, from which Canadian hills stretched far away as the eye could reach, until their tall tree-summits were pillowed in a wilderness of vapory clouds, in the sky boundary, that met and em- braced them; Goat Island, with its grand old trees, sheltering rustic scats, and Indian wigwams, parading their fantastic array of curiously-wrought devices, orna- ments fashioned from the fine white stones quarried from the river's bed,-made a passing strange and beautiful picture, while the drowsy hum of gushing waters and singing breezes lent enchantment to complete the spell. Etna contemplated the surroundings with an exquisite mental delight, an ecstasy of intense appreciation, of which none save the most delicately constituted natures are capable. She bent her brow to the same invisible power, mighty, majestic; while there arose from the sounding deeps the voice that spoke to her by Allan Stewart's grave, beneath the grey Christmas sky. It brought an humiliating sense of human frailty; the world seemed but a dim reflection of the thought that lay beyond in the infinitude of which she had dreamed; even the pulses of that vain love were stilled, as vaster reflections crowded upon her,-questions involving the ultimate destiny of an immortal soul. She recalled De Quincey's words: "Life! what is it? darkness and formless vacancy for a beginning, or something beyond all beginning. Then next a dim lotus of human consciousness, afloat upon a bosom of waters without a shore,-a few sunny smiles,- many tears! little love, infinite strife! whisperings from paradise, and fierce mockeries from the anarchy of chaos. Dust and ashes and darkness circling round." The picture with its "shadowy pomps and pompous shadows" rose before her, and " the little island that was rounded with a sleep." Was this all? was there no glorious life beyond the circling darkness of the tomb? ,   ETNA VANDEMR.        231 The surroundings were suggestive: the queries were a natural sequence. The power which had made Earth and Eden fair, which gathered the waters together and separated light from darkness, would make for us a life beyond. There was a mental acknowledgment of capacity, a confidence in His wisdom and strength. She only measured these; she reckoned not the death which purchases man's redemption or the love that "marketl the sparrow's fall." The spell was one of genius that knew not its Creator.-intellect that added not to its talents. It was the mute reverence of soul, and not the answering homage of heart. Its gems of true feeling were perverted by pride-the finer attributes of nature crushed by the iron heel of conven- tionalism. She stood trembling in the ," luminous shadow" of the immutable presence over "Woodland and hillside and deep;" but upon the fountains of her heart the sunshine of an earthly love was playing with its gilded bubbles on the surface. No image of the love which passeth all under- standing was mirrored in the deeps. It was near noon when they returned to the hotel, all in gay spirits and amicably disposed toward each other and the tempting viands set before them upon the sump- tuous board of that immense institution, the International. Several gentlemen, intimate acquaintances, joined their party here, and it was decided that they should proceed im- mediately to New York, in order to meet Nellie Weston and Miss Winchester upon the following morning. Etna turned her eyes upon Dr. Hastings, who had so well learned to read them that there was no need of words between those two. "Are you strong enough?" His unvoiced response was equally significant. His strength she knew then, and never afterwards doubted. It was a triumph of principle over passion, that in her inmost heart commanded rev- erence.     232        ETNA VANDEMR. The conversation went on its way rejoicing--barely touching upon topics which to a greater portion of the company would have been abstruse, and strangely dis- cordant amid the confusion and almost military parade of white-jacketed waiters, preceding each other in " double- quick." The cross-fire of arch glances between some pair of pretty eyes and the moustached Adonis by her side, with the sparkling repartees from Messrs. Martin and Hughes to sallies from the lips of Mellie Hastings and Etna, con- stituted the somewhat stormy climax of dinner-time enjoy- ment. The new arrivals varied, without heightening their pleasure. Melhe was disappointed that Gerald Seville was not of them, and she felt herself scarce equal to the task of entertaining Mr. Hughes, whose assiduous atten- tions were somewhat too pointed to be pleasant. He finally turned to Etna with a smile meant to be patronizing, yet which barely concealed his chagrin in Mellie's ill-concealed indifference. "6 Are you through, Miss Vandemir?" "No sir, thank you; I have not quite finished my coffee.?' "You had better assist her in doing homage to her favorite beverage," suggested Dr. Hastings. "It is a sure passport to her favor, and gentlemen who desire the boon of a smile may obtain it by drinking with her. "Waiter! two cups of coffee," promptly ordered Mr. Hughes. Etna smiled, much as she disliked aught that savored of servility in man, even toward the woman whose favor he is desirous of winning. She quickly countermanded the order, saying, "I am aware, Mr. Hughes, that you never drink coffee; and though I am forced to consider this at lack of taste on your part, I cannot be so unkind as to martyrize you in your desire to gratify my capricious love for this most excellent stimulant." "You are more generous and considerate than most ladies," answered he, inexpressibly pleased at being ro-   ETNA VANDEMR.         233 lieved from what his gallantry had suggested was a ne- cessity. "Not at all. I have some respect, nevertheless, for 'individual rights.' I abhor the system of petty tyrannies inaugurated by ladies in general, and imposed upon gentle- men, who have too much consideration for the ' poor weak creatures ' (for thus they think them) to wound their van- ity by a refusal." "Miss Vandemir," said Mr. Hughes, "I would that- you would introduce such an innovation into our circle. It would abolish a crhel system, and infinitely relieve those of us whose cigars and afternoon siestas are ruthlessly pro- scribed. Ah!" continued he, with a mimic attitude, " in the language of Brutus, we ' would be all freemen' were this prestige shorn from the house of Winchester!" His glance toward Dr. Hastings was one of covert sig- nificance. The shaft fell far short of its mark. He sat imperturbed, by Mrs. Emerson, on the opposite side of the table. "You mistake me," returned Etna. "I do hot wish to be understood as acting champion to a sex whose vaunt- ed strength is constantly paraded to the astonished gaze of us weaker ones. I am no advocate for cigars, for meer- schaums, or afternoon siestas; but I am decidedly in favor of permitting gentlemen the prerogative of exercising their judgment as well as inclination in the indulgence of these pet diversions. And most assuredly I should have no re- spect for an individual who would so far annihilate his independence as to render his will a tool subserving my caprice-even if I had not more respect for my woman- hood than to make such a request." His eyes fell. "Thank you, Miss Vandemir. I shall be compelled to retire from the field, wounded." "Do not, I pray you, Mr. Hughes. It all arises from Dr. Hastings' misrepresentation concerning the coffee. In order to propitiate you, I will permit you to immolate                        234        ETNA VANDEMR. yourself upon an altar of your gallantry. I will depart from my rigid discipline for once, and allow you to drink with me a cup of my favorite beverage, at tea." They were passing out to take the last train to New York. Etna, impelled by some impulse which she could not resist, turned her eyes toward the travellers' room, and there, leaning meditatively against a column, the gas-light falling in a halo around him, stood Howard Lorraine,-evidently just arrived, for he seemed to be directing the disposition of his baggage, etc. His magni nt ficent figure was displayed to excellent advantage in his drab travelling-suit. He started slightly as he saw her come forward, just as Mr. Martin offered his arm to assist her to the carriage that awaited them at the door. She had looked into his face, had met his eyes, and yet had not even inclined her head. She could not. She lacked reason for the omission, as well as power to perform the duty. On that morning, while standing by the brink of the mighty precipice, listening to the mystic voice that told her the frail thing that life was, she felt that she could bow meekly to the mandate of what she considered des- tiny, though it was only craven-hearted pride, wearing the vestments and counterfeiting the semblance, uttering his edicts under a false assumption of authority. Now, though she had not yet probed the mask, she knew the lion, on that sunny smiling morn, had only been sleeping by the torrent's side. That lightning interchange of glances had aroused him again. Then she felt that for love like hers no medium ground was tenable; it must hope on, hope ever, or die a great convulsive death: indifference to her nature would never come. Why does cruel fate so often with this glorious gift of love fashion a weary seal for the lips that would utter it? Etna felt it were better thus: they must not meet. To such a heart, throbbing in its supremacy of queenly power, love is a fearful gift,-in truth, a life destiny. Etna was not aware how ardently Howard desired to   ETNA VANDEMI.        235 go to her. But she leaned on Martin's arm. He would have suffered a thousand tortures rather than to have gone to her side when another was there. He felt at least that her heart was his own, and it was mocking, those hollow attentions which she felt constrained to receive at the hands of an unloved one. With a strange sensation of dizziness and lightness, she t6ok her seat in the car by Mr. Martin's side. He was assiduously atten- tive, yet he failed for once to charm Etna from her pedestal ofKreserve and silence. She did not heed Mr. Emerson, who, ever mindful of her comfort, walked reel- ing from side to side, from the other end of the car, to ascertain whether or not she would have her window lowered, as the night draught was strong. No! she was glad to feel the cool breeze upon her hot temples; they throbbed so wildly, she did not hear the whizzing sound, as trees, stations, towering hills and widespread plains swept past, clothed in shimmering sheen of July moon- light, rendering dim outlines spectral as they neared the bustling city whose business pulses were never stilled, even at midnight. She only heard the voices in her heart that clamored so loudly for their idol. The bright smiling day had come, when they arrived at the mammoth depot. The incessant din of screaming newsboys and hotel-criers they were glad to escape by taking carriages, the first they could reach, through the pressure, and were soon en route for the St. Nicholas, where they met, by pre-engagement, Nellie Weston, Miss Winchester and Mr. Ashby. "Prepare yourself now to be persistently tormented; George is here," said Nellie, when she met Etna at the door of her apartment, whither, to shun her own thoughts, she had gone to spend the morning. Nellie's endless strain of detail soothed her,-summing up what they,'she and Miss Hastings, had gained by being absent, and what they had lost by not being at home. The flow of versatile humor and elasticity of spirits of the fair Nellie were a     236        ETNA VANDEMR. mine of intrinsic wealth to the pdssessor, and a joy for- ever" to those who fettered this bright star in their social circlet. Miss Winchester lounged down to a late breakfast, ar- rayed in a morning robe of skyey tints, enhancing her blonde beauty. They met the gentlemen in the parlor, Mellie Hastings endeavoring vainly to recover her equa- nimity after the literal shower of kisses Miss Winchester had lavished upon her, previous to the,chilling greeting of the most dainty finger-tips vouchsafed to Etna, who re- turned her salutation with as much cordiality as she could summon. Day after day was spent pleasantly amid the gay life at the St. Nicholas, where they met many friends and ac- quaintances from the South. They had decided not to visit the watering-places until August. Meanwhile, an excursion was planned by the gentlemen to Long Branch, that most delightful summer resort by the "far sounding sea." Favorable breezes; a bright sky; comfortable seats upon the broad deck of the steamboat in the waning sun- light; merry faces; the flashing wit, and the brilliant re- partee, were among the enjoyments of this memorable season. Wearily the sun sank to sleep on his ocean pillow; the dim shore receded slowly, curiously merged in the over- arching sky,-white spires and gilded domes in the lessen- ing azure. Drowsily upon the ear fell distant chimes of evening bells from the world on land,-the "Long green swells of water like moving graves between." Anon, great billows tall and snow-capped rolled up to di- vide them from the everyday life that still wheeled on its incessant round. Gradually lowered the curtain of twi- light upon the spread banners of the glowing west. Etna thought that many vigilant eyes might be longing for the day-god's coming in antipodal climes, making the   ETNA VANDEM.        237 light that in hope would restore a lost treasurgain. Many loved forms, watched and waited for, were sleepin in unknown graves beneath briny ocean deeps, with only coral crags for their last dreamless bed, wild waves for their pillow, and clinging seaweed for a shroud. Per- haps-and she shuddered involuntarily, as tenderness crept into her heart and chill through her veins-perhaps Wilton's wanderer was there, or sleeping in some dreary tomb far away from the home of his youth; else why to those who loved him so was he silent so long? Then came a desire to know his resting-place if he had left earth, to make it hallowed with green sward and flowers,-- as though this would have lightened the burden of his life, or brightened the mazes of solitude and desolation that had early fallen upon him.  She stood long looking down into the inky water; she would have prayed'for him had she dared.    When we learn not the way to God while the heart is bright in the sunlight of happiness, it is very hard to find it in the darkness of grief. The unuttered supplication trembled in her burning soul:, "Oh ! Father, in the day when thou shalt make up thy jewels, thou wilt not forget him; though his ashes mingle with desert sands, or rest 'neath calm seas or oceans furrowed with storms, thou wilt not forget him. When the just and the unjust shall stand before thy throne, he too will be there." It was more a  trust than a prayer. Dr. Hastings now, as when they stood by Allan's cold tomb on Christmas noontime, again- aroused her from her self-forgetful reverie. The Ocean House was in view, and they took their seats for a  moonlight drive to the Pavilion. One evening, the last but one of their intended stay, the ladies of the party being somewhat  tardy in selecting and arranging their evening costumes, it was late when they entered the parlor. Etna took the proffered arm of Dr. Hastings who stood nearest the door.   He  spoke the few words that went to her heart like electric shafts, studying     238        ETNA VANDEbMI. her face and vainly endeavoring to solve the riddles that perplexed him. c Lorraine is here." ", Indeed!" There was only cold courtesy in her tones, and he knew nought beyond. They passed into the ballroom. The dancing was well begun. Etna took in, in one careless range of vision, the faces of those newly arrived; yet even in that brief survey she had singled one form. ow very handsome, and yet how torturingly indifferent, he seemed as he lent his presence to the dance. Etna felt that his eyes were upon her, though she saw his proud head bent slightly in audience to the lady by his side. The quad- rille closed, he made his way through a wilderness of gossamer fabrics to the place where Etna and Dr. Hastings sat. With nothing beyond a few words of greeting to his friend, he offered her his arm, which she in her bewilder- ment accepted, because she had no alternative; the spell of his strong will was upon her: she acknowledged none other so potent. He led her forth beneath the sweet white stars, shining still in the watch that has never grown weary, since they sang its advent from chaos over this wayward planet of ours. They heard now, those two, that glorious song of rejoicing and triumph; its echo was in their hearts, though they knew it was the death-song of love. "I could not speak to you there; the atmosphere op- pressed me. I want one hour, our last for years, perhaps forever, with you alone." She heard mutely, for words were not hers then: he was going far away, and this was his farewell. He led her through the white silvery mazes of moon- light to a rustic seat on the strand. Wave upon warve crashed on the sounding shore as le begged of her to per- mit him to suspend his promise, while he told her again of all his wild love, all the strength and power of what she had cast aside. He had sought her at Niagara, and had   ETNA VANDEMR.        239 failed to see her. He came to ask once more that she revoke her decision, and call back the edict long gone forth, that separated them. "c Etna, my soul's soul, it is even as you say." And she, deeming it best, gave him her hand and bade him go, while her poor suffering heart lay crushed and bleeding at his feet. She knew her heart well, but did not know her nature and the demon that was withering her life. She knew what her love was, and realized that all she had dreamed of its bliss and woe came to her then,- more mighty still in its delirium of joy, that it was throb- bing in consonance with the storm-pulses, then sinking in despair as waves amid sands at her feet. Silvery moon- beams looked down upon those vows, and that stern, rigor- ous decree, as they converged launching a score of bright arrows into the troubled deeps that brightened in their smile. In their hearts the shafts sank deeper far; and there was no shining on the surface closed dark above the ruin. Destiny has no sunshine or moonbeams for the wil-' derness it makes of life,-only darkness drear, impene- trable, around, above, below. Many, many times, in stormy years that followed on lightning feet, and when peace came with its -sweet calm, did she live again that agonized hour of their parting by the ocean side. Softly upon cool, caressing night breezes, came sounds of revel and song, mingling in sweet cadence with tones of the mighty deep. Blended were these voices, the might- iest of earth and sky-the siren whispers of insidious pleasure, and God's'voice in the waves and the stars they mirrored, and the wild pleadings of her heart. That still midnight and the form standing stern and mute by her side !--the thrill of forgetfulness, the rush of waters, as the fingers of fate crushed closer for the brief respite they granted her!-would the spell ever pass away ? When after a brief interval he spoke again, his voice was so changed, she felt there might have been years of     240       ETNA VANDEMR.  that weird space that he sufferingly had traversed since his former words. "'We must return. These midnight damps are too much for you; see how the spray is glittering on the folds of your dress. Once more, Etna, you say it gave you plea- sure that I came to-night, and yet you will not say you love me well enough to bid me stay." "I love you too well, Howard." Each slowly uttered word seemed a groan of anguish, rife with the struggle at her heart. A shadow fell upon the moon, and the stars sung now no rejoicing song, only wept large tears of dew upon the grass and waves, whose sad music sounded fainter in the distance and the space between, for now they were on the piazza. He looked down into her white face and blazing  eyes as if he would bear, with him over the ocean by whose  sounding side they sat, the pallor and the strange radiance  in his closed heart, and then spoke again sorrowfully, as  he would have addressed a wayward child. "I will not detain you here; I will go with you to the door, but I cannot go back into the ballroom." "c No more can I, but to the solitude of my own room." There was a tremor and pathos in the voice of the proud woman, that he had never heard before, and they un- manned him strangely. He took her small hands, so trenlbling and cold, into his own, and kissed them with burning lips; and then he kissed her brow, cold and trem- bling too-and this was all. He was gone. These were his parting words. Man as he was, strong among men, and brave when his strength was needed for the woman he loved, he could utter none others then. She reached her own apartment. It was another night of watching, even as that upon which she first communed with him on the evening of her debut. She heard as then the sound of mirth and song to which she listened upon the other winter night, when she read by the flaming light, and again in the weak dawn, her dead mother's words.   ETNA VANDEMR.         241 It was long ere the music and the dancing ceased, and she heard footsteps pass along the corridor, and the gay voice of Nellie as she tripped lightly to her door and listened for a sound, then turned away more softly, thinking that Etna slept, and wondering why she had left them so soon. Then she heard other footsteps. Ah! that firm manly tread! she knew it well: like him still it was, as backward and forward he strode slowly over the long piazza. Stillness was upon earth and sky; she heard not now even the voice of the sounding deep as wave upon wave crashed on the shore: she only heard that tread, until through her win- dow the faint dawn cameas upon that other morning, joyless, hopeless, and still the unwearied walk. The sun in its sweet golden shining came back to the land and the ocean-shone brightly upon her life as in the beauteous yesterday of their first meeting. When she entered the parlor, it was still deserted. She passed hero hand over her brow to clear away the memories that gathered in troubled thoughts upon it. She grew strong with a determination to face the day of her desolation, and stood once more upon the piazza, looking out upon the broad expanse of sea and sky-alone! yet not more alone than he in the wide world amid its gaieties. They soon returned, to New York. All save one en- joyed the pleasant drives to Greenwood and other points. Harry, dearer, kinder, more brother-like than ever, was at her side,-questioning not, nor speaking; and yet for his delicacy and his own grief she loved him better. She felt herself coward, when she saw his strength, meeting as he did, day by day, the woman he had loved-ah, yes! loved still, for love once is love eternal. Their plans were interrupted by an event that was as. dread as unanticipated. Nellie, always mirthful, always enlivening others with her genial spirits, was taken sud- denly and alarmingly ill, and, with a burning brightness in her beautiful eyes, and a fevered flush on her white cheeks, they bore her to her home. Mr. Martin accom- 16   242        ETNA VA NDEMR.  panied her. "Of course," said Miss Winchester, Ellis  must go."  George Ashby went with Miss Hastings.   ! Etna and Dr. Hastings, at the earnest solicitation of the  Emersons, went to spend a quiet week with them in their  beautiful home on the Hudson. Ellis thought it best that Dr. Hastings should accompany them home, but Nellie  said deprecatingly, that she was so sorry for having  ! spoiled all their plans and abridged their intended stay,  she could not consent to take Dr. Hastings away, when his friends, the Emersons, were so anxious that he should go with them. Besides, she averred that she was not much sick; she was sure Dr. Reynolds would laugh at her, and say she was only nervous: while, as the growing convic- tion came crushingly upon her, she laid her head upon Etna's bosom and sobbed hysterically. The days spent in the quiet happy home in its calm se- clusion were sad and yet sweet to Etna. She was alone with her adopted brother, whom she loved next to Howard and her mother's friend. The mask was gone now, and with it had gone much of the gloom away. To Etna how gentle and kind was the child-wife, changed by her in- fluence, improved by her example. The world called her proud and cold; yet her heart-melted like a little child's in the sunshine of this home, and its trio of ministering congenial spirits. Through the long nights she lay un- sleeping, thinking or dreaming of a vessel with white sails spread, tossing at sport of wind and wave, a majestic figure walking its broad deck even when night was upon the waters, looking over the blue deeps to the land where his love was. Etna suffered, they knew not how or why, but they con- ceded their cordial sympathy. It had been their inten- tion, previous to Nellie's illness, to return by way of Wilton; but Etna decided that her place now was by her friend's side. She did not anticipate a malady that would prove serious, however. Their adieus were sad. Doctor Hastings exacted of   ETNA VANDEMR.        243 Mr. Emerson a promise that they would visit the Falls City in the winter, and they, in turn, solicited Etna to engage herself for their European tour on the following sumtlner. They hurried home more rapidly than the young girls had come, arriving one dark midnight on the mail-boat, after having protracted their stay two weeks beyond their first intention. Mellie came to Etna's room quite early. on the follow- ing morning; she was standing at her toilet, combing her long curls and rolling them on her fingers. Julia was not yet aware of her return. "Did you know that Nellie Weston was dead, Etna?" "Dead! dead!" echoed she; "Nellie dead!" She dropped her arms as if a thunderbolt had struck her. For that bright spirit living in the sunshine yesterday, a tomb cold and still? vivacity gone from the beautiful clay? She found it impossible to grasp at once the pain- ful truth; so stunned and bewildered was she, that she failed to make one inquiry concerning the day and hour when this great shadow had fallen upon the home of which Nelhe was the only idol. "They say," continued Mellie, "that Ellis Martin is almost deranged. They were engaged, you know. She bequeathed to him her library, paintings, etc. Come; they are waiting for us." Mrs. Hastings greeted Etna with a fond paternal smile, then proceeded to relate the particulars concerning Nellie's illness and death. She was much better when she first came home, but relapsed, and all Dr. Reynolds' skill could not avail in the fearful fever whose ravages drank up her life. She spoke of Nellie's ravings; how she had implored Etna to come to her. When delirium passed, knowing she must die, she had written her best-loved friend a note, and had left it and a small memento, a ring, with Mr. Hastings for her. Tears stole from between the slender fingers that clasped Etna's white brow. She arose, took     244        ETNA VANDEM., the note from Mrs. Hastings' hand, and, going to her room, perused it. The writing was faint. 4 Etna, I would not dare speak thus to you, only I am  dying, they say. I know your trouble, dear, and bear its weight too, here in my heart. Now with my latest breath i I implore you not to break Howard's heart. You love    him as you will never love again, and he love, you.  l Mark me, darling: you will regret that you sent him far away from you, no resting-place for hope or heart, when the strong grasp of this pride has relaxed its hold upon you. Etna, my dearest friend, look around you and see if there is anything on earth to compensate for the happi- ness that is shipwrecked, when you and he change the re- lation you sustain, crush down the love you bear, and be- conme the votaries of this dragon that would slay you. Ah! Etna, are there not enough tics severed by death to deter us from listening to the minor voices that would perform for us a similar office? Once again, Etna, I implore you to marry Howard: he loves you. I saw the anguish on llis face when you parted. Ellis and I were in the parlor. I know nothing of the considerations that in- flucnced you, but I scarcely think you were justifiable. The few golden moments in this life, my darling, that are God's smiles, should not be squandered in paving the way to dark hours that come soon enough-soon enough! Write, Etna, and recall Howard, and feel that by so doing you are complying with the last request of one who will bear with her into eternity the memory of our sweet hours of intercourse. ,In return, dearest, permit my love to go with you through life; and in the changes and the years to come forget not SC NELLIE WESTON." Etna refolded the note. It wa s the day for Nellie's funeral. She hastily made her preparations, and seated   ETNA VANDEMR.        245  herself in the carriage by her aunt's side. She had not been there since the evening of the party that closed her first brilliant season. Ah! surely it was a truth; it was Nellie's face and Nellie's smile. She was so calmly and peacefully sleeping, that none had dared to dream that death was there, but for the Parian whiteness of her face. Very beautiful she looked in the snowy robes, and the coffin was strewn with fair and beautiful flowers. The bridegroom (this was to have been the marriage-day) sat bowed beneath the weight of his great still grief at its head. What a change had come over the merry summer party in these last weeks! Etna seated herself by her aunt's side at the feet of her friend, bending her brow upon the marble table on which the coffin rested. The sunshine came sparingly- through shaded windows, and'fell in strange fantastic forms upon the carved rosewood coffin and the white flowers that rested upon it. What kind loving hand would seclude the burning beams from the next pillow that young head would find? As in a dim dream, she listened to the monotonous litany of the white-robed priest. Nellie's life had been gay and unheeding, yet it was hallowed by that sweet charity of thought and deed, which Christ has said c" is greater than faith and hope ;" and had he never worn the crown of thorns or suffered death on Calvary, those words would have constituted him God!-the same that spoke through the lips of the Apostle Paul: "I charge ye that ye love one another." Nelhe had loved all, everybody,-always generous, always just; and Etna felt that the justice meted to others would be hers again at her Father's throne. That beautiful golden rule, a diamond centre around which all Christian virtues revolve, the mainspring of true religion, had been hers in theory and practice: c; Do unto others as you would have others do unto you." True, she had smiled away the golden hours of her life, as she smiled on Death when he came to her; but her hands meanwhile had not been     246        ETNA VANDEMR. listless: rich gems of earthly love were hers. There had been seeds of wayside kindness sown, and these too Etna felt assured would be garnered with her treasures there. The world was an empty, hollow thing, crowded with masses of unreal images, whose voices were confused and meaningless. All seemed receding, life with its pomps and mocking forms, in the shadow of this immutable presence. How were the foundation stones laid in vanity of those structures that trembled and crumbled thus at the inscru- table touch of the valley king! The surroundings were the same; so were the faces and forms the mirrors gave back like to those of the other evening,;-all save one face. Revel sounds were unheard now, and the dainty feet that had borne that graceful swaying form through the dance were now treading lonely the mazes that lie beyond life's sunset portals, through which grey twilight shadows of the tomb were stealing. Those giddy boon companions of the festive hour could not go with her there. Though we have all the world at our feet, we yet die alone. The services closed wearily: smothered sobs from the parents and the stricken bridegroom convulsed the op- pressive silence. With more last kisses on the still lips, the beautiful face was left to sleep under the prisoning lid. Through hot dusty streets, in the blaze of an August sun, the long procession passed, headed by the hearse with its nodding plumes, to Cave Hill. Alone! as though the great city with its mocking voices were a thousand miles away. Etna stood by the newmade grave of her friend as the sod was heaped upon it6 Was this the last-the all of earth and life? She  rd again the voice, strong, majestic, as upon the dim Cltistmas noon: how near she was to it now in mnemory as in suffering! and how far away from the day when she stood by Allan's grave, and listened to the sound of God's words, and the interrogations of conscience, heard again by the torrent's side, and in the hour of that bitter parting! She looked from one to an-   ETNA VANDEMR.         247 other of the graves for a solution. Alutely eloquent, all: no voice there was to tell of shifting scenes bearing the semblance of a previous enactment: a black curtain like a midnight pall was lowered between her vision and the life to come-the west land of earth, and the east land of fu- turity. She walked on further to the little hillock where Allan's grave was. The giass was growing brightly upon it. The tree Harry planted had grown tall enough to overshadow the stone, and the trite inscription. She paused a moment longer by another tomb, tiny and alone. An urn exquisitely wrought of purest Italian marble, filled with choice flowers, stood at the head, and the one sweet little word ,'Minnie" upon its side. From an arched canopy a basket was suspended, from which fell a fragile shower of mignionette. Myrtle, white blos- somed, entwined with the tendrils of cypress, embalmed the grave of the only child. Flowers rare and beauti- ful, with the dew yet cool on their petals, were strewn upon the rich velvety sward.       I -Mrs. Hastings came in search of her, and they left the spot to muse upon the strange scenes of that day. Etna was weeping as they seated themselves in the carriage. Mrs. Hastings, deeming this an appropriate time, spoke of the thourghts that oppressed her. ," This is but one feeble wail, Etna, my child. See how many mourn their idols dead." The weeping girl raised her eyes as 'the carriage moved slowly round the curve, and looked out upon the world of graves spread out almost smiling in their coverings of green sward, sunshine, and flowers. "Etna," continued her aunt impressively, ("there are sorrows greater far than these: To undertake the bitter responsibility of unwinding clinging tendrils of our trust front a worthy shrine, and learning to walk earth alone, in the chaos and darkness that it is when the light of this presence is gone from us. Etna, my own darling! do you feel strong enough for this? You have not chosen to     248        ETNA VANDEMR. confide in me, but I know all. Do you feel yourself equal to the task you have assumed? Our household-mine now as well as yours: Harriy told me of the relationship be- tween us--has suffered much that might have been avert- ed but for this strong pride. Etna, if you love me and the memory of your dead mother, do not make youi heart a sacrifice to this demon, pride. What is in the past you cannot recall or amend; the future, darling, is your own: you may free yourself from these dread shackles, and make it what you will. Believe me, you will be better and hap- pier if you do as I implore you, and cease trampling your heart beneath your feet: you cannot walk over it your life through, without faltering and turning back. Then you will know the value of what is lost, when it is too late to regain it." Etna answered all slowly and firmly. "I will write to Howard, dear aunt, and tell him all. I know he will return, and then I will marry him. I will make his home a bright and happy one. When he knows all that I too have suffered, he will forgive the anguish and the pain that I have caused him." Etna laid her head upon her pillow that night, thinking of him, and the great sea with its myriad waves and re- flected stars that lay betwcen,-of Nellie in her summer grave; and she went asleep to dream that she met her friend again in the reunion with him. It was not on earth, but a strange land that she knew not-so unlike earth-so changed from what earth was; and yet Nellie and she were the same. She kissed Nellie, and threw herself upon Howard's breast. When suddenly both were gone from her, and amid the gathering darkness and images of desolation, she saw them no more. Alas, for human dreams and human hopes! Autumn came with rich harvests, wearing regally her rainbow-tinted vestments, and singing so sweetly the fare- well song of summer, that it seemed a lay of rejoicing   ETNA VANDEMR.        249 rather than a dirge. Though you knew her roses had long been scattered to the balmy breezes of heaven, yet you did not miss the presence of the flower-queen as you lingered in the sunset haunts where so late her footsteps were soft and her garlands bright. But the golden September had not quite gone ere the grass was withered and the foliage purpled; then you knew the bright-eyed, merry-hearted summer was gone too. October followed quickly: from crimson and amber to brown passed the leaves; ripened nuts rattled down upon the sere earth; emerald mosses grew upon bare tender patches of earth and tree-sides. Then came the chill November blasts, that hurled down in troops the clinging leaves and nests of summer birds, singing shrilly the requiem of all. When once stern grief takes hold on a household of loving hearts, how many minor sorrows follow in its wake. They are gregarious and ubiquitous. The present is not vast enough for their range; they must needs overshadow and traverse both past and future. One morning, near the close of the latter month, Etna had been more tardy than was her wont, and, in a mea- sure forgetting her grandmother's injunctions, came down later than usual to her breakfast. Her uncle had finished and gone to business. Dr. Hastings sat in his dressing- gown and slippers, over his coffee and morning journal. He had been reading the foreign reviews, piled on the table beside him, and it seemed he was waiting for the girls' appearance, though he did not say so; and handing to his sister, who came down later, a copy of "Galignani's Messenger," the gave Etna a French paper, together with several letters, and went to his own apartment, prepara- tory to his daily duties,-these being more arduous than usual, as Dr. Reynolds was confined with that terrible scourge, so prevalent of late years, neuralgia. She broke the black seal of a letter addressed from Wilton, anifounc- ing the death of Judge Elwood. The handwriting was unfamiliar, and she could not imagine why it was addressed Lllra Ully VYUH UV Y 1Nj     250        ETNA VANDEMR. to her and not to her allt. tier eye fell upon the signa- ture; Sirs. Vandemir had penned the missive, requesting the family to come immediately to Wilton. She handed the letter to Mrs. Hastings, and taking up the paper, ran her eyes sriftly over the columns, as she awaited her de- cision. They fell upon a marked passage with surprise, as they had fallen upon her grandmother's signature. It was i- Harry who had marked it: his initials were there. She glanced carelessly at the paragraph,-and then an iron hand stilled the beatings of her heart, as she read again, and comprehended the fearful significance of the words which transformed her into a marble block, an apparently toul- less image.  There are some griefs touching ourselves or those we love, that our hearts go out to meet, from the very nature of the agony they bring. Howard Lorraine was dead, and his grave made in Pere la Chaise! She started up wildly, but the tenure between earth and  lif'e was loosed: she fell inanimate on the threshold of that more merciful lethean world, in which the first hours of our trial, be it what it may, adjust it to our wearing. When consciousness returned, her aunt and Mellie were by her side.  They knew  of Dr. Reynolds' illness and Harry's preoccupation, and sent for neither. Mrs. Hast- ings realized the imperative necessity for prompt action. She thought it best that Etna should go with her to Wil- ton; the change might be beneficial.  She told he- so; and Etna, the former proud imperious girl, now of pliant will and gentle as a little child, permitted herself to be measured for her new mourning suits, and went, when they went, through the same  agonized dream, she knew not -whither, until she saw Wilton, and  the sunlight on its spires as of old. She asked herself no why or wherefore; she only knew that fHoward was not, in the blank her life was now.   CHAPTER XVI. ETNA S VISIT TO THE EMERSONS--THEIR EUROPEAN TOUR-- HOWARD'S GRAVE--CIVIL WAR. THE funeral came and passed; another was added to the silent band of pale sleepers in Wilton churchyard. The ElIwood tomb was again opened, to receive the inani- mate dust of the last of the name, unless perhaps the wanderer should return after many days. They went back to the still home he had left, but everywhere they missed the calm face and proud step,--proud even in its faltering descent to the tomb. Etna was bowed to the dust by this new form of her sorrow. The bulwarks of pride that her hand had reared up were myths compared to this darker, more terrible ban, that loomed between them now. All said how dearly she had loved the fond old man, who always made her his first care. They did not know the crushing grief that rendered her callous to all other griefs, and made of the universe an unsounding blank. - This one burning thought by night and day was with her, and had been- since she saw with recorded deaths the name of Howard Lorraine. There was something of remorse, too, intermingled with what she felt. Loving she was in her secret heart, but she might have been kinder many times. She might have spared him much, very much that he suffered. She had uttered the-words that separated them, but she had still hoped that time might open a vista 251     252        ETNA VANDEMR. through which they two might pass together. She felt that she held then in her own hand the woof of their joint or separate destinies; besides, she longed to test her strength, and if she found herself unequal to the task of walking the lone way, then she could recall him. There was no revocation to the dread sentence now. We all know how in the twinkling of an eye the universe has changed when some throbbing hope upon which exist- ence hung has suddenly ceased to pulsate. How upon slow feet the days wore on; how languidly sunset came, lingered, and faded; how wearily the twilight fell; how sadly gleamed the bright tear-wet faces of the stars, as they looked down from the dark heaven of night, when life was aimless, and carelessly the stream flowed on. We go strangely tearless into the future and wear the routine away. How hard the lessons of patient endurance and fortitude; but from compulsion we learn them if we are brave, and calmly take our places after a dim season's lapse, with those mute ones who, wearing the cross, yet watch and wait. Unrest may at first be victor, but the day will come for the hoping and praying, when the struggle shall cease and sweet peace come, with proud consciousness that the visitor's wreath and triumph will be ours when we have learned "Iow sublime a thing it is To suffer and be strong." Etna felt she could not return to Louisville; the season's gaieties would be more than she could endure; so she forestalled the Emersons' visit to herself, by visiting them. Mrs. Hastings had prevailed upon her mother to accom- pany her home. Mrs. Vandemir had returned to New York previous to the arrival of Mrs. Hastings, although she had been there for weeks previous to their coming; it was evident she did not wish to meet them, since they knew the circumstances of their existing relationship. This avoidance was to Etna but another proof of the error   ETNA VANDEMR.        253 and crime that had blackened and laid waste so many lives, -entailed a family curse that might never be blotted out, a discipline whose rigor might never be mitigated. Etna's quiet winter with Mr. and Mrs. Emerson was not wholly pleasureless. She had much time for thought and reflection. She resumed her favorite studies, and be- came almost a recluse, devoting much time to philosophic and metaphysical research,-trusting vainly, as many others have done, to find therein a solution for the problem of existence. Had her spirit been at rest, she would have found some solace in her grief in the hope of a future re- union, for she knew Howard Lorraine to be a conscien- tious, God-fearing man, upright, walking always proudly in his Master's image, as she doubted not he had died. But all was darkness to her here in this vast field of specu- lative theory, with each step toward the goal, as she deemed the truth, but involving her in deeper doubts, and render- ing the mazes of mystery denser, the reality more obscure. We do not require erudite philosophy to aid us in finding our lost pathway to trust and God. If we but list the heart's instinctive voices, they will whisper the way. For religion is love, as God and Heaven are love. No earthly love is perfect until it recognizes the fountain of light of which all the love in the universe is but a single ray. Re- call Christ's life on earth: was love ever more beautifully and gloriously exemplified? Every act, every word, every drop of blood that flowed from Calvary, purchasing our redemption, was love; and our homage is its answer. Winter's icy reign was at length ended. Spring with soft genial smiles had dissolved the cold fetters that bound her chill in the embrace of the storm-king, and came smiling in the fragrant. airs, breathing sweet sounds by rushing fountains, as she loitered sweetly in the faded footprints of bright summers gone. She ushered in sweetly tile golden morning when they sailed. Etna traversed suiTeringly the same blue deep3 over which Howard-had gone to return no more. Their stormy parting in the still     254        ETNA VANDEMR. night came back. The waves she saw with their mirrored stars as then, and heard the deep voice and the witching music, felt the burning kisses on hand and brow; but now those lips were cold, and upon the waves of time that swelled between the Now and Then, there were no reflected stars, and no sweet moon shining: it was a dull, dreary abyss, dark as polar seas. During the long leisure day upon the ocean,-for all days of journey are one,-she occupied herself with her mother's manuscript. She devoted herself to the task of arranging this for publication. Strange and romantic as it was, yet she was actuated by another motive, and this was a tribute to her mother's friends, and she had many kind and true, who loved her on to the last, sympathizing and confiding. It was sweet to her to be able to demonstrate to the incredulous, callous portion of the world, that there are friendships noble, exalted, and well worthy the name, in the exercise of its glorious prerogative of bestowment and requital. They ennoble, too, and call into exercise the highest and holiest attributes of our nature. They are the brightest and most enduring links in the elastic chain that binds us to existence,-a sure and steady ray, beam- ing with undying lustre when lights are extinguished, and hearts grown cold upon the household altar of the affec- tions. Many of these friends Etna knew, and she wished them to know all that their kind words had been to her mother, and bow at last they too were all the world to her. She had known bitter grief, but she had never known what it was to have a friend grow cold and change: this was mercifully spared her. Reader, if in your heart of hearts there is a remem- brance of some dear friend whom you have loved and trust- ed, as you will never love and trust again, and yet at the first reverse of fortune or first breath of calumny, to which all are liable, you entrenched yourself within an adamantine   ETNA VANDEMR.        255 wall of reserve, and perchance withdrew yourself into an impervious covering of self-righteousness, extending frigid finger-tips in lieu of the cordial grasp of old, pray that thp memory may not be treasured against you. 6 You know not what you do." Think of a poor stricken one, with Judas kisses burning on her lips, and perfidious professions scathing her heart. Broken household bands, by change or death, are nothing compared to misconstruction and injustice. To Etna there was something very sweet in connecting the scattered links, and weaving them into a memento for the living. Her magic touch brightened many a faded semblance of what once was fair, and restored time-worn lineaments to beauteous youth again. Out of withered roses she wove living wreaths, fragrant and fair, wafting incense to the God who gave the boon. It was a master hand that performed the sweet task, and she found her pleasure in so doing. It was a life-purpose to her in those dark day, and its accomplishment was hallowed. She was alnrst happy; for genius had spread its glittering wings a ove, brightening the dark waste of her life. The mountain top was reached, and she looked calmly down, hoping, sighing for the goal at last. Gales sweet as those from "Araby the blest" whispered hope that generated pure resolves. And so after the long night the day had come. At the Parisian Court and the gay circles in which they mingled in Europe, owing to Mr. Emerson's extensive ac- quaintance, there were many who bowed at the shrine of the fair American. Though fascinated by her ready flow of dazzling wit, flashing sarcasm, and unvarying humor, there was that in her manner which impressed both lovers and admirers with the conviction that their homage was needless and unappreciated. They were charmed with the effervescence of the rare wine that fate told them they would never taste. To the world she owed no grudge; she was often gay, often like her former self. Only by a     256        ETNA VANDEMR, few to whom she had lifted the veil, was the wealth of thought and feeling suspected. The remainder saw genius flashing from the midnight eyes, from the soul that mirrored it, unknowing it was the interlude of music that was echoless. Could those of her own land have seen that proud girl, with her face bowed on the sod, shedding such tears as women shed but once over the grave where their love lies, they would have reversed the unkind verdict that voted her heartless. There was much in Pere la Chaise to attract the attention of a strange visitant; but though there were sculptured stones and monumental spires, flowers rich and rare, gushing fountains and templed vaults that kept sacred- ly their repository of family dust, she saw only the grave at her feet. There was no material ocean between them now,-yet a gulf that on earth would never be abridged. She had lived years, bright sunny years of hope and joy, in the months she had known him. She had rested surely in the strength and power of his love, half unconsciously hoping that he would overleap all barriers and make her word void. She now saw that what she had deemed sub- missiveness was only apathetic indifference. The star of hope was gone down in this terrible bereavement, and something like remorse haunted her that she had spoken the cruel words that sent him from her. She knew his place in her heart could never be filled. We may make for ourselves new idols, but we can never replace the old ones lost. She had miscalculated her strength. She had felt that he was necessary to her happiness, but not to her life of quiet content. Now that she had lost him, the world was but a dreary blank, and "Wore no more the coloring of romance it wore." Oh! how different would it be if hope were smiling there in the waste of future spread out before her. They travel- led overland to Italy, inhaling transparent breezy per-   ETNA VANDEMR.         257 fumes, basking 'neath its azure skies. She dreamed of the lifelong romantic loves of Petrarch and Laura, and drop- ped tears for their self-denial and suffering, as she moved slowly through the enchanted land of Alfieri, of Maffie, of Goldoni and Monti,-the land that gave them birth and held their graves. They beheld the emerald isle resting amid the waves, sweet in the sunlight of its placid calm. She saw the cot- tage home, the mountain with its wreathing mists, and the little grave in its shadow. She almost forgot her grief on beholding the dear familiar scenes of her childhood once more,-the land where "the early dew of existence fell." She experienced sensations which Wordsworth has described. "Those first affections, Those shadowy recollections, Which, be they what they may, Are yet the fountain light of all our day, Are yet a master light of all our seeing, Uphold us, cherish, and have power to make Our noisy years seem moments in the being Of the eternal silence." The halls were silent; mould gathered thickly upon the walls of the old homestead. Sorrowfully backward she looked through a maze of years to the happy child who had played with the sunbeams amid its flowers, loving and be- loved, in a united household; then the blinding blight crept over the face of those trusting years, and a sea of time and change had grown between.  She thought of the lone grave beyond the seas, and the stranger head resting upon the breast that had once pillowed the clustering curls and the sunny face upon which the blight of the tomb had long fallen; of herself an orphan reared in a strange home; of the little heart with the cold 'sod growing o'er it, that went to sleep dreaming of heaven. She sat by its side in the shadow of the mountain whose name she bore, with the great Sicilian Sea, wearing now its halcyon calm, 17     258         ETNA VANDEMR, spread out at her feet, exhaustless as is the fountain of mortal tears. Etna loved Italy, and she could appreciate Bayard Taylor's enthusiasm when he sat "4 Where olive orchards gleam and quiver Along the banks of Arno's river." Sweet smiling summer was upon the fair land of flowers. The forest even midseason wore the gorgeous hues of an American autumn, its sunsets were so gorgeous, its twilights were so purple. She loved to sit beneath its bending date- trees, amid voices "Of deeper joy and more entrancing sadness Than e'er found accents on a mortal tongue -- the spell which Longfellow has so sweetly defined as "The song and the silence of the heart, Which in part are prophecies, and in part Ard longings wild and vain." There are many voices in the human heart, that do not resort to the superficial medium of speech; they find no vent in words. Surely there are depths in the soul that no earthly plummet can sound, whose ecstatic calm breaks not into the music of a ripple, whose crystalline splendor mirrors the beauty and glory of a future world,-only through the mist of earthly light we cannot behold with our tear-dimmed vision the glorious images reflected there. "Life treads on life and heart on heart: We press too close in church and mart To keep a dream or grave apart." O'er seas came to Etna the echo of that surrounding strife, which had convulsed the world. And tears, bitter tears by night and day she wept, that her beloved nation had fallen. Tears for the stigma that had grown upon   ETNA VANDEMR.        259 her name; tears for the oceans of blood that must be poured out on the soil where "her star and her glory had gone down ;" tears that fratricidal hands had clutched a sectional dagger to plunge it in a brother's heart; tears for the waste and the ruin wrought, and the widespread devastation in the beautiful land that was her home. Sor- rowfully she turned her eyes beyond the seas over which the sad, sad tidings came crushingly.     CHAPTER XVII. KENTUCKY-- ER NEUTRALITY-- MSS IIASTNGS AND GERIALD SEVILLE-- HOWARD'S ENLISTMENT IN THE SERVICE OP O IXF COUNTRY-AN INCIDENT. "But thou, my country, thou shalt never fall- Savo with thy children." BRYANT, FROM pole to pole over leagues of intervening soil, from ocean to other ocean deeps, swept the fierce tempest, pas- sing in dread convulsion over the nation's face in lightning swiftness. The rude shock benumbed the faculties of the social world, paralyzed the sinews of commerce, and sent the wild blood bounding through young veins,-the signal for a sacrifice of brave hearts and lives, the precursor of unnumbered tears,-the herald of the dense gloom of de- solation that has devastated the beautiful land, and laid happy homes in ruins. Sumpter fell! Oh, what a fall was there! The first blow that aimed death to the nation's heart. Rude hands had laid hold on the foundation stone. The governmental structure was tottering, sinking; crash upon crash has since followed, in quick succession, in the ruin and deso- lation ensuing. The shrill cry " to arms!" for vengeance and redress, unstilled for months, was the voice of appeal and compulsion, repeated by many tongues, re-echoed by rocks and vales that slept in beauteous peace no longer. There was no home but had its vacant chair, and 260   ETNA VANDEMR.        261 mourned its missing one. Fond hearts and true wept by lonely firesides through long still hours of desolation and suspense, as the shadow by absence cast\grew larger and deeper, as each day gave record of the fierce strife, and told of battles lost and won. Fond hearts achingly crossed weary space in tortured thought, canvassed unfamiliar scenes,-- And battle tents that everywhere Kept ghastly white the moonless air,"- in their dreams oft finding not what they sought, but a lonely, unmarked wayside grave. Stricken wails of sorrow, too, pierced the thick air, and smothered groans of fierce anguish filled the chaos of space where social life once flowed. The exultant victor shrank abashed for his laurel crown, withered in the grief that rests upon the peaceful fronts of quiet households. The voice of triumph was hushed when they saw the skeleton guests that occupied the places of missing ones. As we pen these words, a vision comes to us--a cottage home near by. A few years ago it was bright with sunlit flowers that grew by a meadow streaml where silvery sang our youth away. That long season was one fair dream of uninterrupted bliss; but, oh! the gulf since opened! Only another of those vast seas of time that often swell between the bright past- and the dreary present! Fathom- less and burning it is swelling before us now, and we sigh as we hear the turbid waves dashing near. The father was erect and happy then; now we see an old man, bowed with suffering, leaning tremblingly upon his staff, in his daily walks to the village post-office for tidings of " the boys." In the generous kindness of his unselfish heart, he thinks not alone of his own bright-haired boy, but of all those who, in one glorious, unyielding, resistless band, from his vicinity, had formed such a company in the Fifteenth Kentucky regiment as never before to the music of drum and fife went abroad upon the land that was now one great battle-field. Long bitter hours-of suspense came ?     262        ETNA VA NDEMR. to those whose loved ones were afar in an enemy's country. With the dreary monotonous spring came at length a mournful letter sealed with black. Some strong soldier hand and kindly heart (for they are allied) had penned it in one of his brief wayside rests, on the long tedious march that "'cleared Northern Alabama like a lightning flash." Our playmate of childhood, the soldier-boy that we loved, was dead: he had died bravely on picket guard. The old man, still more weary and worn, trudged slowly homeward, on the day upon which that letter came. The June sun slanted on the moss-grown eaves of Evenside, weaving a prismatic halo around the dark evergreens and the old stile where we sat as he passed by. One look into his face told us the story. Tears came to his relief as he saw his son's playmate. We were both children still to that fond old man.  Over a weary sorrow and the years between he had turned back, with the tide of grief and tenderness, to the dear old time, to the stormless springs and unclouded summers of our lives. And we too Xwere thinking, as he went his way to a desolate home, and the darkness came down, when sunset faded and dews were wept, of the face, youthful, handsome, radiant in hope, confident of success, as we had seen it last. It was only a unit of the thousands white and still that in that land of graves was sleeping, unhonored, but not unwept. What right had that poor stricken old father to mourn his broken home? The nation and the country required the sacrifice. He was but one of many-aye! of hundreds of thousands!  Many mourning hearts can tell of similar scenes-of lone waiting days and nights drear and dark, and the sad, sad finale. Each wintry wind is a wail; each gentle summer zephyr whispers a name that is but an echo, that tells us what is lost, but never what is gained. Ah! too sadly we fear that many dwelling in high   ETNA VANDEMR*         263 places lack the disinterested patriotism that animated the hearts and characterised the acts of our fathers. We miss the proud exalted statesmanship of America's Burke,- Virginia's Clay,-Kentucky's Ashland   sage. Why do those who hold the reins of government torture the ear of Divinity, exasperate sections whose institutions they would crush, with "shrieks for freedom" and equality, while making for themselves gods,--strange gods of gold and self-interest? Is it philanthrophy, or fanaticism? Be that as it may, like Ephraim of old ", they are joined unto their idols."- Sweet June was dead, and buried with her wreaths in a summer grave. July with fierce heated feet walked over flower-tombs. It was the anniversary of our independence, the eighty- fifth of our nation, towering supreme above all nations of the earth. But, in the last of all these years, what was she become? The liberty-sceptred queen of many battles was languishing upon a couch of pain, and fanatics North and South with blood-stained hands awaited the hour to strike death to the colossal Empress of our world of the Western Hemisphere. For a long, long time, Kentucky had held herself aloof, a mediator between insane brothers of the same household, and her clarion voice was heard speaking peace to -the crimson-capped waves of disunion and sectional strife, that broke upon her borders. Those who know what she has since been, behold her then! XENTUCKY.* There she stands! In the midst of the ermbattled stars, And confronts the rage of Mars, Olive-crowned, with olive branches in her hands, There among the stars she stands! * This tribute to Kentucky, by our friend Forceythe Wilson, is as just as it is beau- tiful.--Ltousvilte J^.rt.     264          ETNA VANDEhIl. There between the vans of battle, there she stands! Central splendor of the civic constellation; Down she hurls the broken falchion and extends her bloodless hands, Saying, "Peace, be still, O Nation I' Like the Saviour there she stands! Peace imploring, there she stands!  Oh, beware! ye who would trample, Down her beautiful example I! Thrice beware! Ye who would tear The inviolable Olive from her consecrated hands 1 He shall die a shriftlcss traitor Who shall ruthlessly pluck down From her hands the Olive-branch or from her brows the Olive-crown; By the same sword he shall perish which he draws to immolate her, Every scorpion shall expire By the same fierce fangs of fire Which he darts to desolate her I Carnage shall not desecrate her, Treason shall not violate her, Tempt her nor intimidate her, Though she falls right where she stands I Orbed in order, crowned with Olive, there invoking Pence she stands t There despite the mad confusion, Wreck and roar of revolution, Anarchy and dissolution, In the music and the glory of the good old Constitution, Sphered forever, there she stands! It is there Kentucky stands I But the angry aggressive torrent of revolution swept         ' over her at last, and she too was drawn into the vortex. ' Her sweet office of peacemaker was at an end-mediator- ship was useless.   Oh! it was a sad day, when rude hands tore her Olive down! KENTUCKY NOW.* Olive-crowned but yesterday, High among the stars she stood, v-  Deprecating, interceding, Pointing down to those who lay Dying upon field and flood,- Wfomen wailing, brothers bleeding I * Louisville Journal,   ETNA VANDEMR.          265 Last night while her children slept, From the land where terror reigns,  , Ruthless train-bands swept upon her; Then she woke, and groaned, and wept, Seeing on her peaceful plains The flag of treason and dishonor I There among the stars she stands, Wearing now no Olive crown; There despoiled she stands in sorrow, And the selfsame shameless hanids That have torn her Olive down Will try to tear her down to-morrow I Upon this anniversary day, a party of gentlemen were assembled in the reading-room of that peculiar institution, to which Charles Mackay adverts as " the pride of Louis- ville," the Galt House, discussing issues of "Union and Disunion," "6 Southern Rights," "6 The Constitution of the United States," etc. Ultraists of either section were con- ning, according to their respective views, the Charleston Mercury or New   York Tribune; while citizens, many wearing the uniform  of the "State Guard," expressed opinions with characteristic Kentucky independence. Somewhat apart from the throng stood a gentleman, an officer in the Federal service, belonging to one of the first Kentucky regiments. The same calm face, almost haughty in its repose; the same rounded outline. Had Etna seen that form, she would have said, ;' Behold, how the grave has given up its dead!" He was apparently much absorbed, 3yet no fragment of the conversation escaped him. "1 very much regret his death," said one of the gentle- men, 1" inasmuch as it was a needless and reckless sacri- fice. He was courageous; yet we have thousands like him, who would as valiantly die, rather than one stain should rest upon the pure banner of our liberty," Howard Lorraine knew to whom they referred. But a short time previous, banners throughout the nation were lowered to half-mast for a young manly form  laid cold and dead in state at Washilngton, and the c" proud stripes     266        ETNA VANDEMU and bright stars " were shrouded in crape. Col. Ells- worth was no more. A carriage came dashing along, the horses plunging at headlong speed. A cavalcade of Germans returning from a pic-nic, with a band of music and spread banners, had frightened them. Gerald Seville sprang from his seat, and caught the reins that the mad steeds had wrenched, in their sudden spring forward, from the driver's hand. This alacrity upon his part was soon explained to the by- standers. The equipage was the property of Manfred Hastings, and the young lady with blanched cheeks within was his daughter. Equanimity was restored as the driver resumed his post, and, Mr. Seville taking his place by the side of Miss Hastings, they went on their way. Mellie Hastings had altered strangely since we saw her last. She had become a literal part of the conventional sphere in which she moved. Better far than all the world else she loved the young man by her side; but she was trampling down her heart for her pride's sake, as hun- dreds, aye, thousands have done. It had been months since she rejected him. They had not spoken together since. Now when she was calm again, he asked her a question, the same to which Etna had listened by the sea- side; and her answer had been even as that answer was -with a love as strong and as hopeless. And he, press- ing his lips upon the hand of the woman he worshipped, had gone his way. Ere another nightfall, his name was enrolled among those of the men enlisted in the Confede- rate service to defend the detached States. But, to return to the group we left. Howard Lorraine had started slightly when he saw Miss Hastings, but he was thinking of the hour when last they had met, in the ballroom by the seashore,-of the form then by her side, the dark soulful eyes whose burning radiance had never left him by day or night since they parted. The still marble face had looked from every wave that he crossed and every star that had smiled on him since they parted   ETNA VANDEMR.        267 Was she still unchanged? and why had she not written to him, if onlyje word, in answer to his wild appeals, during his ear abroad. After his return from Australia, his aunt had old him of a strange girl that had wept upon his cousin's grave, and from the description he knew it must have been Etna. c"Miss Hastings is one of the most beautiful women my eyes ever beheld," said a gentleman with an air of -im- portance, as if he had just made a decision upon the corner- stone of which the failing government was resting. "Yes," answered a second. "I wonder who will be so fortunate as to win that prize. It will be one in a commercial sense as well, for 'Hastings & Hughes' is one of the wealthiest firms in the city. Hers will doubtless be a handsome settlement." A third of the group now spoke. ( I cannot imagine what has become of that little dark- visaged tigress, that annihilated every one who came in her range, with her cutting sarcasm. His ward, I believe, she was. A perfect Sicilian volcano by name and by nature. The strangest being I ever saw." "It is a misnomer: she is not volcanic, but as frigid as an Arctic iceberg. She is travelling in Europe, they say, with the Emersons. It is rumored that she went in search of some one. Doubtless for the pleasure of gratifying her strange propensity for novelty by assuming the relation of Theodosia to some offending Burr of the family-an irre- claimable prodigal. I, for one, am sorry she has gone. She was always civil, many times really kind tome," said he, with a little weary sigh. "I always miss her in our circle.- I never knew any one who possessed such-remark- able versatility. She would often talk for the space of fifteen minutes in an animated strain, holding her auditor spell-bound at some passionate recital; and when he was well-nigh melted to tears, scarce knowing which to admire most, her words, or the naive -gestures that accompanied them, then she would launch forth into a sea of sarcasm.     268        ETNA VANDEMR. I am afraid of her ; and yet she possesses a strange fascina- tion for me. I wish she would return." "She is brilliant," remarked the pompous gentleman who had spoken first, with an air of grave decision, " but I could never be induced to lay my life's hopes at the feet of such a woman. I consider her incapable of any depth of affection; she certainly is not one upon whose exclusive love a man might stake his all. Her heart is a block of marble." Howard Lorraine bent his eagle eye upon the speaker. He was a man wise in the world's experience as in his own conceit. "I have heard," he continued, "c that it was her won- drous capability for devotion that has driven her from our midst. But I do not believe it. She tried very hard to captivate the heart of Dr. Hastings, but was unsuccessful; therefore she is determined to tantalize the remainder of us poor devils out of our wits. I most especially consider that I am entitled to sympathy in my moral martyrdom of probation" He did not conclude what it was his intention to say. A strong hand had felled him to the floor as if he were a beast. Howard seemed a great giant in his towering strength, as he stood over the prostrate dastard whom he had stricken down. He stood a moment with glowing cheeks and blazing eyes. When he spoke, his voice was tremulous with suppressed anger, his face ablaze with scorn, and his words with lightning sarcasm. "Gentlemen! I have listened to animadversion from you concerning a friend of mine whose conduct and char- acter arc above reproach. If any of you entertain an opin- ion similar to that expressed by that detestable villain,- whom I know to be beneath her scorn,-let him but utter them, and he shall pay the forfeit of his worthless life. Could Etna have seen him then, the noble man erect in his Creator's image, woman's shield anid strength, as God intended he should be, she would have fallen at his feet   ^i,   ETNA VANDEMB.        269 and worshipped him; but he would not even then have been dearer than the dead love she mourned in a far-off grave. "I should have killed him on the instant," he con- tinued, " but for disinclination to stain my hands with the miserable current that flows in his veins." Brave men are always the defenders of women. The man who willingly traduces, or takes even upon light or careless lips, the name of an innocent woman, will drive the assassin's dagger to the heart of his best friend. Yet men whom the world recognize as gentlemen, who have mothers, wives and sisters, often speak thus lightly and carelessly, as they would not dare to speak of a man, who might hold them responsible. Females unfortunately have no such recourse. We repeat it: Any man who will causelessly defame the name of woman is an arrant coward at heart, and has not so great a regard for honor, or even the semblance of honor, as he has a horror of cold steel. Those whose voices were heard a few moments previous in concert, now uttered the most vehement disclaimers of any intention whatsoever to asperse the name of Miss Vandemir, assuring him that they entertained the most exalted regard for the lady in question. "I imagined as much," answered he, the same sardonic expression playing around the corners of his mouth; ," and yet you sat quietly by, permitting such dastardly insinua- tions to be uttered in your presence, with your sanction, of one whom I have often heard you assert you were 'proud and happy to call friend.' Deliver me from such!" He turned upon his heel and walked slowly from the spot. The man who so. suddenly had lost his equilibrium, on discovering that he was minus his honor, had brought back the remembrance of his degraded chivalry by a draught of brandy and water, and, coming back just as Howard Lorraine was leaving the room, he levelled his weapon and fired,-not, however, before the hand of an indifferent     270        ETNA VANDEMR. witness to the scene had turned aside the deadly embassy. "Hold! would you shoot a man in the back?" Yes! He would have done so: that was the aim he wished! It were a pity to desecrate the gallows with such in- significant burlesques upon manhood-the true manhood which is a prototype of Christ, and G6d's most glorious creation! s"How are the mighty fallen!" The primitive glory is shorn; yet by a few who have not forgotten it is the universe redeemed.   CHAPTER XVIII. ETNA RETURNS TO HER NATIVE LAND-DEPARTURE OF DR. HAST- NGS--HS M1OTHER S GRIEF AND MAIBEL S SECRET SORROW- THE FIFTEENTH KENTUCKY-NO COMPROMSE; NO PEACE- HOWARD'S PRIDE. IN the fulness of nature and perfect beauty the first autumn mornings merged in meridian glory. September mists fell goldenly in the long quiet afternoons upon city streets and forest glades; rich harvests of mellow waving grain were garnered from the winter's approach; the days glided, anc the glittering sands ebbed dreamily, even as the hectic presage of decay passes, as it were a fair sum- mer rainbow confronting sunset, over nature's evening face: but the roseate flush faded soon, and darkness fell upon all. What a change had come! Though nature was thus jubilant, the sounding tramp of soldiers on their South- ward march, the occasional snatch of the bugle-notes that cheered them on, the inveterate purpose that impelled, -these were the thoughts and sounds burdening the golden atmosphere of Kentucky's September. The nation's strength was thus vaunted, her intentions thus demon- strated. Even the echo of the voices that cried " peace" was unheard in the sound of the rushing conflict. Etna had not remained abroad the full period of her intehded stay. Melhe had written her to return and em- 271     272        ETNA VANDEMR. ploy her influence with her brother, who had decided to go to the war, and who, upon his failure to obtain the posi- tion of surgeon, had already accepted a commission from Col. Pope of the Fifteenth Kentucky, then forming at Camp Sherman. She decided to employ all her eloquence through the medium of her letters, to induce him to desist; failing in this, she determined to see him face to face, which she did, foregoing for this object her projected winter with the Emersons in New York'City and Wash- ington. She was not needed at Wilton. Mrs. Vandemir was there with her grandmother, who was growing very old and infirm. Almost eighty years of this mortal life had been hers, and the coils were gradually loosening. Etna longed to be with her, but she felt so strange a dis- inclination to be near Mrs. Vandemir, that she stifled the deeper voice of affection and went on hef way. She was warmly and affectionately greeted in her own home as an authoress. They had recognized Etna's style, though she had given her publication to the world nameless. The re- union was pleasant, but very sad. The second day after her arrival, Dr. Hastings came in from camp to see his cousin, as he usually styled Etnia- Answering her first questions after his usual frank Ken- tucky manner, he said, "Would you have me remain inactive when this call from our own States appeals to every loyal heart so elo- quently? must I make no response? I should have re- frained from participating in this strife, and, as you know, was a member of the 'Neutral Guard;' but since her position has been insulted, her loyalty questioned, and her people assailed, why, I can be careless no longer. I should go into the field now, if I went as a private, and shouldered my musket like the brave fellows under my command. I am determined to give all the aid in my power to crushing this wicked rebellion. We boast, and unquestionably with reason, what alone can ennoble war, -' a noble cause.' "   ETNA VANDEMR.        273 Etna bent her head in painful thought. She did not dare to look into the radiant face before her; she felt her purpose growing weak. At length she spoke, calmly and firmly; it was not the fierce outhurst he had anticipated. "Harry, remember you have relations and friends in the Confederate army: you meet them face to face, at the bayonet's point, upon this fratricidal field. Are you willing that blood of theirs should be upon your hands? If we were striving with a foreign nation, you should carry my blessing with you, brother; but this ignoble warfare with our own flesh and blood-oh! Cousin Harry, do not lend your aid to this; let those go of other States, who will only meet sectional enemies,-not those who will meet friends and brothers." She spoke long in the same strain of touching appeal, and he mused meanwhile, then answered as though he was listening to the voice of his thought and unheeding her. "You remember," said he at length, " the scripture tells us a man's enemies shall be those of his own household,- of course meaning national households as well. tnder- stand me: I am not personal in allusion. "The position our affairs have assumed is truly lament- able. The South was unquestionably aggrieved, but they transcended our warning injunctions and exceeded the limit of our presciption. They were first to violate our position of neutrality, which but for this we might have maintained. The President had promised us that 'no hostile feet should tread Kentucky's soil,' if she remained true to the nation. He is redeeming his promise. The invaders will be driven from hence. But for this, our State arm would never be raised against her sisters of the South. Each Kentuckian must appropriate this indignity; it becomes a personal matter. You well know that I love the South. There are no such people under the sun as may be found in those States. Proud, hospitable, chival- rous, true gentlemen, I am well aware what cause they 18 aa     274        ETNA VANDEMR. have for complaint. I don't regard secession as the primi- tive cause of our difficulties, which are merely the natural result of abolition encroachments; yet it was hasty, ill- timed and ill-concerted, inaugurated by a few insane leaders, who for selfish considerations would sink the best government on earth, to ruin eternal.  They should expiate their dastardly deeds upon the gallows. When they kept guard upon their ambition, and held it within sectional bounds, it was well enough; but since they would involve the country in their insane schemes, coercion is now the only policy left, the one alternative to ignoble submission,-necessary and just." "In one respect you have spoken truly," answered Etna. "Had there been no abolitionists, there would have been no secessionists. One is the natural offspring of the other, -not the child of passion, but of policy; yet it is upon these leaders the blow should fall, and upon them alone. The gallows should have performed its office promptly and effectively. It is upon thousands of good and brave men, who are utterly ignorant of the intentions of their leaders, that the arm of coercion falls heaviest. They are blinded, these tools, and do not perceive the direction in which their force is impelled. No; it is not justice. It em- bodies not the first principle of this divine attribute. Call coercion by some other name, brother. It is vindictive ambition, self-aggrandizement. It was this that cost Caesar his life, and Rome her proudest dignitary. Should blood, oceans of blood, be poured out for this  Would not peaceable secession have been preferable to a union of dis- cordant elements? Had I been principal functionary, I should have permitted the States to go quietly out, re- membering that 'One human soul Is more than any parchment scroll, Or any flag the winds unroll.'" "My dear cousin," he answered vehemently, there is no such possibility. There could be no peaceable secession   ETNA VANDEMR.        275 of States; the term in itself implies dissension, signifies strife: it is the essence of war. " Do you for one moment imagine that the strong bands which bound our nation could be ruthlessly broken, and yet no inward convulsion ensue from the severing of liga- ments that united millions of patriot hearts? Never, dearest Etna: blood must flow, rivers of blood, before the old blockaded channels are again hollowed out. I, as much as yourself, deplore the necessity for the sacrifice. But it has become an imperative necessity. This war will desolate homes and break hearts, but I for one am willing to yield my own life, and, were it not for the pain I know such an- event would cause you, I should glory in the privilege of dying for my country, could I by this means restore again the national harmony. But mine is only one out of the million waves that will break upon the still shore of eternity, before calm will come again to the troubled sea of discord." "You speak truly, brother: there will be no limit to the required sacrifice; for, mark me-in God's great book of national destinies no American's name was ever written serf! You may take life by the tens of thousands, but they will never crush the deathless spirit of resistance. They may torture; but subdue?-never! and are you willing to lend your aid to this hopeless, needless task? I tell you, brother, unless we have peace by compromise, our country is doomed. The united powers of the allied Eastern world, should they lend us aid to-morrow, could not save her. And still, knowing this, dear brother, must your life, so dear to us all,-be cast recklessly away?" He mused long and painfully, then answered. "After all, there are many brighter, many that will be more missed-none more loving, and, in a certain sense, less loved!" She felt her heart sink as she looked at him, tears burn- ing their way- down her cheeks. The old vain dream, its squandered wealth of feeling, its useless longings, its vain '- Ai^     276        ETNA VANDEMR. hopes, o'ershadowed his noble face. Why was it thus? why was that strong manly love bestowed upon an object so unworthy? A painful, withering thought crossed her brain, and she gave it voice. "Harry, tell me truly,-if your heart were perfectly at rest, would this be? would you then leave us? He answered after some hesitancy. "Ye! I should go; because I deem it duty, and no true man will ever falter in the path where he deems his duty lies: but I should not bear away with me so heavy and careless a heart, and such reckless indifference regard- ing the result. I have conquered all but this, Etna; but it had grown too powerful for my strength before I felt the necessity." She bowed her head and wept,-not from any petty feel- ing of selfish pique that he so frankly admitted that his home ties were not sufficient for the safety of his strong manly heart;-wept that it was so, and she who held him next to the dear dead was impotent to offer aid or com- fort. He passed his hand swiftly over his troubled brow, as if to clear the dark gloom of thought away; then, rising and looking at his watch, he said hastily, "I suppose you are aware that our regiment leaves to- morrow. We are very busy, and I have already exceeded my leave of absence; I must go. I cannot meet the re- mainder of the family. I must say adieu to mother and Mellie. Poor, dear sister, she is not happy, although she is so gay. Gerald Seville is with the Confederates. Meet me on the corner of Fourth and Jefferson to-morrow at ten. Have them all with you." Melhe had been inconsolable in the thought of her brother's absence; but his father was so anxious to have him go, that she did not take an appeal. It was upon the fond mother that the blow fell heaviest. Her heart sank within her as she thought of her brave boy, her only son, exposed to perish, necessitated to endure privations in an enemy's land; and she foresaw the long   ETNA VANDEMR.        2" hours of gloom when his home would know his presence no more. On the following morning at the time appointed, Mr. Hastings' handsome equipage was drawn up in front of the United States Hotel, to see the regiment as they passed: they were that day to commence their march, the first of a long series southward. A careless street voice conveyed the intelligence, "They are coming!" The notes of the bugle seemed a death-knell of hope, and muffled tones of the distant drum fell on their hearts like cold clods on a coffin lid. Etna's eyes swiftly measured the grand mov- ing column, with waving banners, nodding plumes, and glittering bayonets, looking for the dear familiar face. She espied it at last. Hopeless it was, almost reckless, and strangely indifferent; though a change came upon it as he saw the eager eyes drinking in what might be their last look. He left the ranks and came to them. A low tender voice said, "6 God bless you, Henry!"It was his mother's, and it almost unmanned him. Mellie's tears fell thick and fast, but she could speak no more; and Etna, well he knew how heavy lay the stone upon her heart. He clasped her hand; it was icy cold: her lips were sealed dumb. "Etna, cousin, sister, have you no word for me? Will you not wish me success and God speed?" Her heart almost breaking, at last she faltered out the response, "'Dear brother Halrry! forgive me. I love you, but I cannot approve." There was mute anguish in his fac6, a plaint wail in the tones that spoke now his last good-bye -to the trio, and he went on his way. The long line wound' past. Eager, ardent faces were pressed forward even beyond their steps to the "Dixie land," and young hearts kept time with pulses of fire to the music of the band, their voices joining in an undertone with the notes of Kentucky's glorious battle-song, Cheer     278         ETNA YANDEMR. boys, cheer!" amid shouts and huzzas for the banner and the glorious Fifteenth. Brave officers and brave men, nobly did they realize expectations formed of them.* Etna, with her hand shading her eyes, sat regarding the moving mass. She did not observe that a magnificent vehicle was drawn up near to their own, and a pair of beautiful azure eyes with a passionate longing look ibllow- ing the form of him who had just said his adieus.  He passed without one sign or glance toward her. Mellie saw the white anguish that settled upon her fair face, and from that moment she was conscious that Mabel Winches- ter loved her brother. She saw too that his cruel neglect was killing her. This thought was busy at her heart. They drove through Fourth street.  She merely glanced up at the inscription, "Headquarters of the Cumberland." Her eyes rested for a moment upon a handsome officer standing upon the steps, wearing an adjutant's epaulettes. She did not know that he had recognized them. Had he not beheld Etna, he would have gone to Mrs. Hastings and Mellie; but Etna had bidden him go: hers must be the first overtures. He too was proud, though his love was strong as it had been on the day of their parting. And she, Heaven help her! was conning the bitter les- son which time, that stern disciplinarian, had taught her. Christmas came.  Grief sat mute by many hearths, and walked beside many faces at festivals. The skeleton stalked everywhere, though there were some happy reunions and some sunny faces smiling welcome to the morn. Life's gaudy chariot goes over and onward, through the towering battlements of fate,--though death in legion follow swiftly. The year went out in tears, and for long days and weeks no gleams of sunshine brightened the plains upon which * The Fifteenth Kentucky, "The Orphan Regiment," so called since the terrible battle of Chaplin Hills, during which all of the field-officers fell gloriously,-Col. Pope, Lieut.-Col. Jouett, Major Campbell,-. and other brave hearts by hundreds bled to the death. During that terrific and sanguinary battle, the gallant Fifteenth won for themselves a name that will live forever, All honor to Kentucky and her brave Fif- teenth    ETNA VANDEMR.        279 our nation's heart was bleeding. Each day recorded its fierce strife, and the heavens bent low to weep above the sacrifice. Were all hands impotent to stay the river of blood whose tide ran through our land? Would no sweet calm Hesperus smile through the gloom in which our na- tion's sun had set      CHAPTER XJX. THE BATTLE OF SHLOH'--ETNA'S MEETING WITH IIOVARD LOR- RAINE--.IS CONVALESCENCE-IiER VISIT TO THE HOSPITAL -ALEC MORTON-A TOUCHNG REQUEST. THa winter passed drearily. March wailed in her dying as she wailed in her life, though sweet April stood smiling at her graveside, little knowing that the sun of her sixth day would set so deep in a sea of blood. A tumult of fierce excitement quickened the business pulses of the great city, and stormy tides in a whirlwind of passion convulsed the usually unruffled calm. With suspended breath every one listened to latest accounts of the terrible slaughter and carnage, each more terrible than those preceding,-all sufficiently horrible to appease volumes of wrath, the most bloodthirsty and vindictive. Many mere the anguished inquiries, Were our loved ones there? Were they of the fallen? Thousands of invisible bullets were speeding on their way to distant homes, to watching hearts, that were doomed cre long to know their, bereavrcments. Many a silent prayer amid thousand voices went upward on the silver wing of untutored faith, to the Father who "marketh even the sparrowt  fall, and who from the battle sea of death will gather, as he once gath- ered the stormy waves, his chosen ones. Every heart was turned to Shiloh; many usually callous, bowing to the   ETNA VANDEMR.        281 mandate of businesp, were so disturbed as to be deprived almost of the power of volition. When at length equa- nimity was in some degree restored, it was proposed that measures should be adopted for the relief of those who lay weltering there upon that field of blood and carnage. One eloquent voice was heard above all others: ' Sleep should not come to their eyes until their purpose of succour should be accomplished." Accordingly, a meeting was called, at which contributions were generously volunteered, with the design of chartering a steamboat, upon which to convey the delegation of kind-hearted ones, who proposed to assist likewise in caring for the wounded in their journey from a sickening field, where for days they had not tasted food or drink, to this city. Torrents of rain had darkened the face of heavern and the days that followed. The river had overleaped its banks, and extended its channel until it seemed a great sea bearing wrecks upon its bosom. Steaming her way through the angry wastes steered the "E. H. Fairchild," quickly compassing the watery leagues between. Lightly she danced upon the rushing waves, speeding cheerily on her errand of mercy, anxious to reach the goal and assume the return burden. Stout hearts trembled as they saw the ruin of that battlefield. There they lay, bodies half buried in sick- ening mire, amid fragments of artillery,-ghastly upturned faces that they remembered in sorrowful anguish were some fond mother's pride, some wife and sister's best beloved. Many had perished from thirst and want of sustenance before aid could reach them; every stream was stained to crimson with the blood that flowed. What but the sweet charity that prompted them could have sustained weak women in such an ordeal?  And yet they were strangely brave, aiding much in their superior sagacity and forethought. Many a suffering head from a pillow of clay was transferred to a cool soft resting-place upon the cabin oi the "Fairchild." At length, laden with her precious     282        ETNA VANDEMR. freight of human lives, whose frail, quivering tenure a breath might sever, she started on her homeward way. A thousand anxious hearts were torturingly awaiting the shrill whistle that heralded her approach to a distant city. The day and hour of her arrival were announced through the columns of the daily newspapers. Like the shrill voice of an invincible fate it struck home to many, and seemed the precursor of long hours of gloom that would follow the tidings that came. How many, alas! could tell of vacant seats by the homeside hearth, and voids that no new idol, nor time, place or circumstances, could fill throughout the space of coming years. Eager multitudes were congregated on the streets through which the strange procession passed, separated by a delegation of the Provost guard. The sweet moon of April smiled down upon the sufferers with faces upturned and ghastly, corrugated by pain, and looking more strange- ly spectral in the still white night. One, delirious with fever, implored them in wails of tortured agony to let him rest, if only for one moment. They laid the litter near the spot upon which stood Mellie Hastings and Etna, leaning upon each arm of Mr. Hughes. With a wild, piercing cry, that shivered the hearts of those spectators, Etna threw herself upon the ground by his side. So they met again after long months. The world of dull actualities is too tame a stage for the enact- ment of scenes such as these. The bystanders supposed that Miss Vandemir had rec- ognized a friend; and Mr. Hughes, with the promptitude and forethought that always characterized his actions, ordered a carriage, and the trio, two living, one merci- fully unconscious, returned home. All white and still like a poor blighted flower, Etna lay upon her bed. As a rose in its bloom suddenly swept from its stalk, its tenure cruelly severed by a lightning shaft, she lay there, the life-current frozen at her heart, her jetty hair in a mass of curls falling in a wilderness   ETNA VANDEMB.        283 upon her shoulders; she was still as the grief, hushed and unworded, of those that watched by her side. Matters were hastily explained to Mrs. Hastings, and she, understanding all, interrupted the mute appeal of those eager, passionate eyes, that seemed scanning her soul. She answered promptly, "Yes; it was he, Etna." A mur- mured "Thank God!" scarcely audible, escaped the white lips, and like a little child she wept, kissing the fond motherly hands that held her own in their clasp. "You will be better, Etna dear, and we will visit him to-morrow. Mr. Hughes tells me that, being an officer, he is permitted to occupy his old quarters at the Galt House." To-morrow! A vague, torturing fear seized her in its iron clutches. The yesterday of their love had been so long, did they indeed stand upon the morrow? Perhaps the stricken sufferer might never see it. After an early breakfast upon the following morning, Etna stood in the hall waiting for her aunt to accompany her on the projected visit, when she heard her voice in tones more unsteady and excited than usual, speaking to Mellie in answer to an abrupt inquiry of her daughter's. 1"We are going to the Gait House, to spend the day with Etna's friend, Mr. Lorraine, who is very ill." "Can it be that Etna has forgotten her engagement? She and George Ashby are to ride to-day to the Button- Mould Nob, and Mr. Hughes and I to accompany them. The agreement is one'of long standing; besides, there are many who will misconstrue her motives if she should visit Mr. Lorraine so familiarly. I should not go for the universe, if it were myself, and my friend requested it." There was rebuke, gentle but firm, in the response. "My child, no one has requested your cousin to go. It is her own wish and will. I am sorry to see you so frivo- lous, so determined in the pursuit of your own phantoms, to the exclusion of higher and holier demands upon your time and attention. There are duties, privileges, I should call them, more satisfying than these diversions of a mere-     284       ETNA VANDEMR. tricious character. Are the claims of friendship nothing? I is true, we have our seasons of social enjoyment, but those who suffer are entitled to our kindness and our char- ity, and we at least will not withhold them." Mcllie answered with some bitterness. ";As to bestowing charity upon a wounded soldier in the way of kindly attention, Etna has so frequently expressed herself in bitter opposition to the war in all its aspects, that one is compelled to imagine her kindness arising from some covert motive foreign to patriotism. Her sym- pathy for the Southern cause would scarcely permit her to guarantee these to an officer in the Federal service. She is playing philanthropist upon the score of interest." Etna felt the hot blood throbbing in her temples as she confronted her cousin. Surprise, indignation at her mis- representations, half formed themselves into a bitter scath- ing response; but the thought of him she loved, his strange restoration, and the feeling in her heart, so sweet, so boundless in its charity, restrained the cutting retort, and she replied gently, far more gently than was her wont. The work of regeneration was well begun in her soul. "Cousin, you remember upon a sad morning long ago you gave me your sympathy because you knew that I suf- fered in his supposed death. He was not dead, but per- haps will be soon; and shall I lend my presence to your gay party over the fair smiling hills, and walk earth to the end of life after with my desolate heart shrouded in sackcloth and ashes? I have written a note to Mr. Ashby declining the invitation, or rather withdrawing my con- sent. I can risk his displeasure, though I should regret to wound his feelings; but I cannot outrage my own heart and forfeit my claim to humanity. I must and will go to Howard this day and hour. I shall remain by his side while he needs me, even though I by so doing incur the censure of unfeeling prudes who in fawning sycophancy would stretch their souls upon a rack of torture rather than transcend the limit of stoical conventionalism. Alas (Ir   ETNA VANDEMR.        285 for us when we are,so fettered with these that we do not follow our higher impulses, or the dictates of the heart, in charity of word or deed! I have shaken all bonds from my limbs. Howard has suffered from my caprice. All that I can give him now is his due, and is slight atone- ment for the wrong I inflicted. It is now my duty to endeavor to blot out that past; and, God helping me, I will." Melhe was kind-hearted, and, throwing her arms about her cousin, she exclaimed passionately, like a sorrowing, repentant child, "I was wrong, cousin; forgive me. You are right; you always are. I admit I was bitterly chagrined at the thought of losing our equestrian excursion, but it is no- thing now;" and she added, thoughtfully, "You have been doing a great deal recently for the wounded soldiers from Donelson. If I can render you any assistance "- She did not conclude the sentence, but glanced timidly and deprecatingly up to Etna,-who, -though younger, was yet the stronger of the two. Etna took both little hands in hers, and smiled in the lovely face that looked to hey for guidance. "And so you think it would be so hard a task to find work for these restless fingers? Have you seen the morn- ing journal? I saw the name of one who was once your friend,-a very dear one;-but perhaps you and he have changed since then: there is a long span between, but still you may yet come to know the fate of Gerald Seville. His name is among those of the wounded at Shiloh." The quick gushing gasp showed where the words had struck. Etna repented her rashness, though Mellie gave no other evidence of her suffering. She recognized now another heart bruised and bleeding, in its harsh conflict with the stern conqueror and heartless tyrant Pride; and she never again misconstrued Mellie's apparent heartless- ness, for she knew that her life, seemingly so bright, wa yet not without draughts of bitterness. Harry had known     286        ETNA VANDEML this, for suffering renders our perceptions more acute, and he too suffered. Mrs. Hastings and Etna, upon inquiring at the hotel, were shown into the apartmlentof Adjutant Lorraine. His physician was alone with him. A genial, glowing smile broke over the features of Dr. Reynolds as he recognized them. In his own peculiar manner, he expressed his plea- sure that they had come. "My young friend," said he, " needed care and atten- tion such as no blundering, abrupt physician or hired valet / can bestow upon him. In addition to his wounds, which twere severe, he is very ill indeed; he has been delirious since before we left the field with him. I should have taken him home to our house, only Alice is not well enough herself to tend him. However, I trust she will soon be better, and able to share your vigils."' Etna meanwhile had quietly removed her wrappings and taken her place by her lover's side. "There!" exclaimed the doctor; " that is as it should be. And, my child," continued he mischievously, toying with her curls, "'I know a secret if I chose to tell it. That young man, however, was not so guarded. Well might that chief of the muses ask, ' What's in a name?' when he by the mere utterance of a certain cognomen exploded his politic schemes as a volcano unconsciously belches forth its internal combustion; and I have gathered up the frag- ments, arranged the conglomerated hieroglyphcs, and deciphered the inscriptions. Behold the result of my timely sagacity, and listen to the opinion of one who is not yet so old as to have parted with the memory of the days when he was younger, nor has he forgotten the charity due to the thoughtlessness that often generates the foibles of youth.  ' "My child, you have en uraged him; you have tampered with his love for you; you have jilted him, for all I know: and I hereby most solemnly forewarn you, that, if you ever torture him again, I will delegate   ETNA VANDEMR.        287 to myself the authority to pass sentence of banishment on you. ,c It made my heart swell with pride to hear them tell how, during the battle, in the thick of the conflict, when his gallant young colonel was wounded, he himself snatched the stand of colors from the fallen standard-bearer and rode in front, rallying his men to a fiercer charge amid a shower of leaden hail that would have daunted a leader of the ' Imperial Guard ;' until, fainting from- loss of blood, and the fever that was upon him, he fell from his horse insensible. There he lay for long days until we found him. Oh! it was a terrible thing, that battle. The brave Louisville Legion met Hunt's regiment face toTa-d, and blood flowed like water from the wounds that relatives and friends had made. 6"Ah!" continued he, feeling the conviction and weight of every word he uttered, (1 Kentucky should never have come to this. She should at all hazards have refrained from joining hands with either belligerent, though she maintained her supremacy meanwhile, and resisted aggres- sions from all quarters. She should have driven invaders 'from her soil, but should have gone-no further. Thou- sands are leagued with the North, thousands with the South. The great knife of revolution has severed her mighty heart. There is no tie but has some of its bright tissues unbound. Every household is divided. Each blade wielded by a Hentuckian's hand may deal the death-blow of a fratricide. I repeat it: Kentucky has no business here." He mused abstractedly for a moment, then, with injunctions concerning the patient, he left them with a promise to return in the afternoon. Mrs. Hastings withdrew into the private parlor adjoin- ing. Etna, having given the valet some, instructions, dis- mlissed him, and sat down to note the changes which the tempest of time had wrought. With joy she saw there was no record of sinful indulgence upon the broad white brow; but the pain recurred when she saw the expression     288        ETNA VANDEMR. of fixed sternness that we have often seen, Reader, upon lips that love,-more painful to behold than griefs of our own,-an expression that evidences nought beyond the. joyless endurance of life. It tells of patient acceptance of its casualties when hope is dead, and we have long since ceased to expect joy again. God help us when we arrive at the last climax of suffering, the height when we cease either to hope or to fear,-when no returning glow comes as we stand beside the cold altar stone from which the warmth has long gone, and can be rekindled no more -its idols scattered perchance over many lands, to meet again on earth no more forever. Long weary days of torture followed, during which, in the stupor that ensued, he gave little evidence of vitality, but lay "S scarce breathing while he slept;" and now, more agonizing still, came the memory of those hopeless inter- vening years, and the echo of his farewell was still wring- ing in her heart. Those dear lips, would they never speak to her again? Mute they had been for long, as though the seal of death really sat upon them. She stooped and kissed them, so white and still, her own all trembling and quivering with emotion. A strange parting and stranger meeting had been theirs. The strong spell was broken, and the victor Pride was vanquished at last. There is an electricity of feeling that through a medium of touch reveals itself to the senses. He opened his eyes slowly and cautiously, as one finding his way through mazes of dense darkness back to life. She saw the effort of mind swayed by heart, which is strongest far in seasons of physical ailment, and sank down by his side with bowed head. Ah! that form, as it revealed itself to him in the shaded light of the room! it had crossed seas with him, and lived too in his heart when stormiest tides of battle raged and showers of leaden hail fell crushingly. He put forth his hand, so wan and wasted, until it reated on her head, and then, in tones that were feeble, and   ETNA VANDEMR.        289 yet more touching than his burning eloquence had been, he spoke the first syllable through those weary months. Oh! how her heart and soul thrilled to the sound! cIs it you, Etna? Speak, darling. I have had a sweet dream; tell me that it is real." She raised her eyes, all bathed in the mist of their happy tears, to his gaze. A glad smile like sunlight broke over the paleo face, and beamed through the eyes that had looked on scenes in many climes since last they looked on her. How very far away from him that dear face had been, and how fondly-now it bent near'his own! cYou must not talk," said she; "( they will send me from you." ", Then," said he, so sweetly and gently in his weakness caressing the little white hand he held, "you would not go now of your own accord?" She made no response,-she dared not,-but only bent her head and wept. (' Speak to me, Etna; if you have love or mercy in your soul, speak and tell me that the hours that have come and gone--oh! how I have counted them!--have been heavy, joyless hours to you as well. Have they, in dragging their slow lengths round, revealed to you that your self-suffi- ciency is but weakness at last? Have they tauht you to know your heart and to recognize its superior claims? Are there strong voices struggling, greater than those of caprice or pride? Tell me, Etna, for I long to know, how, after all these years, we meet again." No words-were hers, but the hunger of her heart was breaking in the slow tears that answered him. His tremu- lous words still continued to flow, strong only in the strength and power that imnpelled them. "Etna, have you ever reflected upon the nature of this passion, tenacious as life and steadfast as the sun? I have not loved as a boy. I learned this lesson in my maturer years, when the intellect and judgment aid the fancy. I have known many lbeautiful and gifted women. I have 19     290        ETNA VANDEMR. seen the world and know it well. I have loved and been beloved; but it was for you to occupy the throne. It was a strange mystic fate that brought us together. That I should love you was as natural as that the sun should shine. You made even despair bright by the assurance that you loved me in return. Etna! speak, darling! if but once, and tell me that you are unchanged in the long hours since we met!" There was now the same expectant look upon his face that she had so often seen, and it was succeeded as then by a look of disappointment, keen as a barbed dart. Simple words of kindness are not what love would ask were it privileged to choose in what terms it would hear its fulness uttered. This was what he felt when she spoke. , An iron hand has fallen heavily on me since we parted, Howard; though suffering has brought no change, for my heart is not less warm to the friend of other days. We are even as of old." "Nothing more, Etna? have you now no words but kind words? Oh, Etna! you have never loved as I have loved. No! no! it cannot have been so! Beware when your pride would again send me forth a starless wanderer through nights of gloom, as I have been. Life is nothing to me without you. I have tried the world without its sun. It is not worth the living for." How very weary were his words! His look said, "Oh if we might never part!" And then she told him of her long letter of recall that had met no response, and heard with surprise of his own addressed to her that she had never received. She suppressed the recital of his supposed death. But, with tears falling like rain over her crimson cheeks, she told him that they should never part again. And he closed his eyes to shut out the brightness of the suddenly uprisen goal. How he had watched and toiled that it might be his! It was as though the student whlo had labored industriously throurgh years of research had suddenly stumbled upon the charmed stone, potent as the   ETNA VANDEMR.        291 p precious life-elixir to the sorcerer, for which he has toiled; as the " shining shore"7 revealed beyond death's vale, radiant in glory, to the Christian. "( We will never part anain." Very sad the words were, almost like music on a dying day, or orange-blossoms amid a funeral wreath. He uttered the words that she had uttered when she knew that he lived, Thank God!" and he kissed pas- sionately the captive hands, passive now, and said bro- kenly, "Etna, mine own at last! these words are worth dying for!) "Then are they worth living for. We may suffer again, for you know how full of heartaches the world is now, in the sweeping tempest that is desolating its homes; but we will suffer for each other, and not for ourselves, and bear a joint burden in the years to come. Now go to sleep, darling, for I am with thee now and always." The words soothed him, and he obeyed quietly. How strange a reverse of attributes do the extremes of joy or sorrow accomplish. They shiver the stout manhood, leav- ing the weak frailty of a little child, and metamorphose the most delicate female into a column of strength, resolu- tion, and self-control. He felt how much the stronger she was then, and be in proportion was submissive, so he went to sleep as she bade him, and dreamed. A sweet dream like a vision of Eden stole over him. He saw spread out smiling fields of living green, amid whispered music of pure gushing fountains whose silver waves echoed no parting, and he walked hand in hand with her those flowery paths, listening to a voice, pure in its sweetness as was love when God's presence was its joy. The rigid look of sternness was gone from his face; only a placid calmness remained. Beautiful and yet death-like was that sleep of restoration. In the sentiment denominated love, all false lights go out. Yet the passion in its strength and power makes the glory of the universe.- How artistic and beautiful the structure, when founded upon a broad basis of intrinsic     292        ETNA VANDEMm. worth! This being the cnsc, let love be what it may, wearing the semblance of sweet peace or the stern visage of unrest; let it come with its excess of storms and bil- lowy tides: they shall not sweep away the exalted esteem whereon its palatial domicile is founded. It is eternal, and will not die the simple painless death that passion dies. The love of Etna and Howard Lorraine was a blending of the highest attributes, a concentration of pris- matic hues, a bond of earth's brightest tissues woven; and when one electric link was touched, the whole long chain vibrated, that bound heart and soul in one delicious har- mony. He soon explained to her, after he became well enough to think and reflect calmly, the circumstance of his cousin's death. It seemed a natural result that she should have imagined it him, since their names and ages were iden- tical. Those brief days of convalescence were the brightest ones of his life. Mrs. Hastings and Mellie, Mrs. Reynolds and the kind-hearted Doctor, shared Etna's vigilance and cares. And as soon as he was strong enough to endure the fatigue of a removal, he was transferred to the house of the Doctor, who tyrannized over and tantalized him as much as kind Mrs. j eynolds would permit. Etna, at the request of all three, had remained in the hou3e to be near Howard. Dr. Reynolds slyly hinted that her presence was more salutary than the most efficient tonic he was capable of administering. One morning Mrs. Reynolds came to the invalid's room, in which her husband and Etna were seated, listening to a detailed account of the battle, and requested the latter to go to the hospital with her. "Are you going there?" inquired Etna. (Going there!" quickly interposed the Doctor, minick- ing Etna's plaint tones; "of course she is going there; she always is going there; she spends three-thirds of her time in the prosecution of her benevolent schemes. Not   I   ETNA VA1NDEMR.        293 longer than a month since, I was compelled to enforce my commands by an eloquence almost equal to that of Euripi- des, to convince her that it was her Christian duty to lie still for awhile, as outraged nature was raising just such a hue and cry as South Carolina uttered previous to the fall of Sumter. I knew not but that I should be compelled to coerce the refractory subject into consistency; she had refused all compromising measures." "c The most prominent of the measures he proposed," in- terrupted Mrs. Reynolds, "was that I should swallow a quantity of physic which it would have taken three months to recover from. I, being decidedly opposed to such a siege, respectfully declined. The consequence is, I am fully restored, and enabled to resume now my suspended duties." "It is imposition of the most egregious character," said Etna, "the physical and constitutional martyrdom that these erudite physicians of an exploded system are wont to inflict upon those of us who have no power to resist their dogmatical assumptions. After all, their helpless patients are often silenced rather than convinced; but arguments futile as those of the government, the exclusive clique con- sisting of ' We of the North,' are insufficient to convince the refiactory members of the great national household, that their welfare, temporal and spiritual, depends upon their being forced to submit to a system antagonistic to the perpetuity of their institutions."  "Come, Etna; you must not thus stimulate treason and invite rebellion in my household, I shall impeach you; and doubt not but that I may easily obtain a verdict of summarny dealing. Is it not sufficient to establish the jus- tice of my complaint, that I have not a whole pair of hose in the establishment? In addition, my shirts are buttonless, my collars starchless, my food unpalatable; lastly "- I "You need not trouble yourself to recount a list of fur- ther grievances," answered Etna, bursting into laughter,     291        ETNA VANDEMR. despite the mock gravity of the Doctor, "to convince Howard and myself that you are the most abused person in existence. One need only look to your measureless proportions for additional proof. Under these harrassing circumstances, how you manage to improve so astonishingly in flesh, is more than I can imagine. It is one of the miracles of the age, difficult of solution as the problem pertaining to starving the South! You remember their supplies were cut off, through the channel of the newspapers, at least, and yet they have been gaining ever since, im- proving marvellously under their restriction to meagre rations, and are still unconquered at the expiration of a year." He sat literally filling his large armchair, and now by way of giving emphasis to his displeasure he took a pinch of snuff; which movement was succeeded by a sound that caused Etna to tremble lest Howard, who was resting quietly, should arouse in a fright, under the very natural impression that he heard the trumpet-blast announcing a furious charge. Etna, smiling, glanced significantly toward his immacu- late linen. "Your laundress certainly deserves the fate that you are so anxious to award to Toombs, Yancey, and a few other prominent leaders, upon whose broad shoulders you cast the burden of this terrible war. It is my intention to announce at the next business meeting of the ' Soldiers' Aid Society,'-having previously obtained permission of our Moderator,-that it is absolutely necessary that a col- lection be taken for the relief of a suffering civilian citi- zen of our place, in order that he may be furnished with the necessaries of life, comprising an instalment of ' pal- atable food,' 'wearable linen,' etc. And I will further suggest that a guard be detailed, provided with a coil of rope, in order to be enabled to deal summarily with refrac- tory rebel members of his household." "Add to your petition," suggested he, " that a system   ETNA VANDEMR.        295 of ' timely and judicious hanging' be inauguratedthrough- out the city, for the benefit of other martyrs. For there are many beside Alice who have the mania. They have actively forgotten the ancient and obsolete maxim, ' Char- ity begins at home.'" "cAh! answered she quickly, purposely misinterpreting him, " it is my intention to petition that hostilities com- mence here; and it is far easier to decide where they shall begin than where they shall end. We know not how far it will be practicable to extend the policy, and hope our arms shall not be subjected to a reverse." "Come, Etna," "said Mrs. Reynolds, "we must be going. When the Doctor becomes unmanageable in future, dogmatical as he always is, I shall send for you to silence him." "Ah! yes," said he, with an air of injured innocence, and an affected puff that could scarcely be said to have arrived at the dignity of a sigh, meant to be pathetic doubtless; "Lorraine had far better have made an uncon- ditional surrender of his precious person to Beauregard's ' Louisiana Tigers,' than to have fallen into the hands of such a termagant. She is a perfect smiling tempest, a fertile volcano, rightly named. You must return to dinner." Many families of her circle of intimates had taken suf- fering soldiers to their homes. She had often, rather as a pastime, lent her aid in caring for them; but she had never before, although her aunt visited them daily, crossed the threshold of one of those dreary abodes of suffering,- comfortable, doubtless, and efficiently cared for, but dreary notwithstanding. A sickening sense of cowardice over- came her. What right had she from a feeling of curiosity to enter there? With an overwhelming sense of humilia- tion she thought of what her life was, an inane, useless dream, with all this dread reality within a few squares of her. She asked herself the question, Were she called upon that hour to give an account of her stewardship,     296        ETNA VANDEMR. how could she account for her idleness? She was chari- table in an abstract sense, but heretofore hers had been a theoretical philanthrophy. She was humbled in the re- membrance of her thoughtless carelessness. Had these suffering fathers, brothers, sons, no claims upon her kindly ministrations? She thought Qf her dear adopted brother in a strange land. How should she feel that he should lie ill, while thousands inactive as herself were near him, yet never aiding, even to take the last message from his whitening lips, for those he loved at home. The thought was torture. True, she had some- times done a generous, kindly deed; but she had never gone beyond the range of her immediate acquaintanceship, had always been assisted by her sympathies. Here now was a vast field for the exercise of that divine injunction, "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you." This was Nellie Weston's religion, her guiding principle in life, her triumph in death. If Harry suffered with thousands of his soldier com- rades, and those around them failed in their duty to their country and humanity, God would accept no dereliction upon their part as palliation for her delinquency. She fixed her lips, and her dark eyes grew brighter with springing resolves that seemed half performed. She looked about her and saw many gentle forms kneeling be- side the sufferers. She paused. Attendants were bearing a still rigid form past to its rude coffin. The hair was swept back from a brow broad and high; the face was young and handsome. She thought that in some distant home it was treasured,-not as the dead face that she saw, but full of hope that his promise of a return would be ful- filled. Oh! the long hours of waiting vain and tortured, that would be theirs! They might never even :know his resting-place. She summoned courage to speak to a physician in attendance on the wounded, and inquire his name. This he gave her, but could furnish no address, thereby debarring her from the sad pleasure of acquaint- 6      i   EIfLA VANDEMRE       297 ing his friends with his decease, rendering futile her first attempt at service. She passed on through long rows of cots scarce more than two feet apart, with the space of a yard between the wards. There, side by side they lay, suffering and wounded, the heroes of Shiloh! There too were foes whom they had met and vanquished. She saw with a thrill of intense joy that the partisan fires had burned low. They were antagonists in the conflict now no longer, but brothers in suffering, brothers in the great family of humanity. Alas, that they should ever have been other than this! Slowly and silently she passed from cot to cot, from ward to ward, pausing at length by the bedside of a vet- eran of the Pennsylvania cavalry, who, the attendant informed her, had served during the Mexican war. It was a good face, though furrowed over with the- blight that had bleached his hair to that silver whiteness. He slept and dreamed, walking, she doubted not, from the expression resting like sunshine upon his withered face, that season afar back in the years, all radiant in light, and fragrant in the perfumed breath of its early flowers. Etna watched the rise and fall of the feeble tide through the shrunken veins, and saw, too, with pain, the last faint remnant of vitality pouring out through the channel at his side. His wound was fatal. At length he opened his eyes; she had come closer to him, and was bathing his forehead with sparkling drops of lavender-water from a vinaigrette she held in her hand. "Oh! I have had such a sweet sleep --holding feebly on the fair fingers that pressed his temples, as though she were a part of the vision, and he feared that now the memory would vanish if bound to him by no visible link. "I dreamed that I wandered about the old home and the still churchyard at Wilton. I dreamed of sitting on a grave they told me was Harry Elwood's." The tangible and intangible was strangely blended in his thought and fancy, and he was not strong enough to     298        ETNA VANDEMB I separate the tissues of light and darkness, so intricately interwoven were they. "It is strange," he continued; "it could scarcely have been true, for his grave must be far away from the home of his youth. He went away when I was a boy, and never returned."  Etna now spoke quickly. "What is your name?" "Alec Morton," he answered promptly. Alexander Morton, of Luna Glen?" "The same. Harry Elwood was my playmate and schoolfellow, but I have not seen him since we were boys together and sailed our paper ships upon the little stream that runs through the churchyard where my mother lies buried." Dear old Aunt Faith! thought Etna, crushing back the tears, how kind she was to mother and I, when we were so neglected, forsaken and sorrowing. She listened as he went on. "We were both wanderers. I never went back but once since I left; I could not bear to go, it was so changed. I loved Miss Grace, although she was a child, scarcely more than fifteen, when she married Mr. Vandemir, and I then a man of thirty. I remember Miss Ellen too, and how sorry we all were when she went away to New York and married her cousin Francis Lynton; although I well knew she loved young Harry Elwood notwithstanding his ways. But Miss Gracie's death was saddest of all; I believe it killed mother." He was musing painfully when Mrs. Hastings came up. Etna told the story, and Alec received a cordial grasp of recognition. A dinner of nice dainties followed, for " the old soldier with the white hair," as the nurses were accus- tomed to denominate him. On the following morning Etna went again to the hospital, having promised to Write for those whose wounds were precarious, and who consequently were unable to   ETNA VANDEMR.        99 write for themselves. The old man's couch was unoccupied. He was gone into the springtime of a new life: the hours of his second childhood would be passed amid smiling meadows green and fragrant as those of his dream, to which no wars or pestilential storm can come, for God reigneth supreme in the beauty and majesty of holiness evermore. She sat down tremulous and sorrowful to write her letters. Having finished several, she turned to look about her. A young Alabamian was beckoning her from a dis- tant ward. She had conversed with him a few moments on the previous day. Now he asked her if she would write for him. Her reply was worded kindly. "It would be useless to write, as there is no postal communication between the sections; no letter to friend or foe would cross the lines." And she added in a tone of playful raillery, "I imagine it will not be a great while until Uncle Sam will have extended his contested domains even beyond Alabama; and as soon as communication is established, then I will write your friends with pleasure. Please furnish me the address." He answered seemingly more in pursuance of his own thought than in answer to her words. "I have a young wife at home in the far South-a bride of three short sweet months when I left her-and a dear mother. It is very hard to die far away from them, not- withstanding the kindness we have received at your hands. I too have seen faces whose expression bespoke sympathy, whose acts were not the mechanism of charity. It will A soon be over now; and when I am dead, then you will write for me, will you not? and tell them of these last  hours, and that I died loving and blessing them." "Etna promised, but turned aside her head and drew  down her veil to conceal the blinding tears. It was one  of the thousand wails with which the atmosphere of revo- lution is burdened. Who dare stand up in his giant strength, to answer the millionth part, even the smallest     300        ETNA VANDEMr. fraction, of that which each individual is doomed to endure? This narrow domain constituted a world of suffering within itself. Without, all nature was jubilant; spring walked the earth; garlands were fair; and even graves, where hope lay dead, wore their Maytime green, and  smiled in the dreary monotonous sunshine. Within this sanctuary of suffering, the autumn of soul, with its faded flower-wreaths of trust, lying listlessly where we found them when the winter snow melted from the tombs of our hearts' treasures.   CHAPTER XX. "ETTERS FrOOM TIlE AESENT-GERALD SEVILLE-ETNA'S PASSAGE- AT-ARMS WITH MSS WINCHESTER-MELLIE HASTINGS' VISIT TO GERALD SEVILLE---HS DEATH AND BURIAL---IEI MARRIAGI WITH BMAURICE HUGHES. Now that the bright spring was come, the void was more achingly felt in the home that the son and brother had left. They missed Harry's kind voice and moro especially the sparkling repartee and flowing vivacity that made their evening reunions so delightful; they missed their ever ready escort and brave protector. That bright home was not the same: there was no denying that the shadow lay darkly. True, he wrote very often, and his letters were tender and manly. A ray of the old life illumined the circle when they came. All wrote in return, and their hopes, their fears, and amusements and diversions, all served to make him forget for the time being that he was a soldier in an enemy's country. Often during the winter nights, that even in that balmy clime were so long and so cold, he re- perused them, sitting lonely by his camp-fire, sleeping comrades beside him,--read them over and over again, until each word was written on his heart of hearts; and otten, too, when he took his dreamless stand. "Where the muskets shine, And the picket stretches its sleepless line," the echo of that sweet home melody came pealing like 301     302        ETNA VA NDEMR. strains of heavenly music heard from far, making hallowed his own life of service and duty.            i Letters subserve a great purpose. The world is full of partings. It seems so drear and wide when its miles and areas lie between fond hearts. How brief are its seasons of uninterrupted bliss, intercourse of mind and mind, soul and soul, except through this medium. Irving says, "Our earthly loves are made up of transient embraces and long separations. The most intimate friendship, of what brief and scattered portions of time does it consist! We take each other by the hand, we exchange a few words and looks of kindness, rejoice together for a few brief moments,-and then days, months, years perhaps, intervene, and we see and know nothing of each other." Blessed be letters! their mission is thrice blest! Etna went often now to hospitals, becoming much absorb- ed in her new duties, intensely interested in spite of herself in individual instances. One morning, as she was passing slowly through one of the wards, an attendant touched her arm, saying that he had been requested to show her to a gentleman who claimed to be a friend of hers. She pressed to his side. He held out his hand, saying sadly, "I must indeed be fearfully changed if none of my old friends recognize me. Miss Vandemir, do you not know me?"  Ah! he was indeed fearfully changed, for in the faded semblance there Etna would never have recognized the once elegant and fascinating Gerald Seville. lisease and dissipation, with a climate naturally unkind from excess of kindliness, had made fearful inroads upon his constitu- tion. She saw before her a shattered wreck of what once had been, and he was fast sinking into the grave, the last heritage of all. She was thinking about what he was and upon what he might have been. He comprehended the drifting of her fancy, and, with a shade of bitterness on his pale face and a dash of irony intermingled with his hoarse tones, he answered her ruminations.   ETNA VANDEMR.        303 "I am all that you think me, Miss Etna,-unprincipled, erratic, erring; but it was not always so," he added in a gentle tone. "Before my mother died, I should have shrunk from encountering a fate like this I have invoked. But what aims in life were mine? I had none to sustain, none to care for." "The manhood whose strength is insufficient to itself is not worthy a care," interposed Etna haughtily; and then, repenting her harshness in another moment, she continued. "There are those who cared for you, Gerald Seville; you had hosts of friends; and there was another love, too, that might have been yours, only you trampled the hopes that were its sweet blossoms down into the dust in your self-abandoned recklessness. She, so bright and beautiful, could not follow you in your downward career of folly and sin. You loved her, doubtless, but your passions and appetites were stronger than this beautiful sentiment that makes man perfect in the fulness of his manliness." "Desist!" exclaimed he, starting up. "Do not, if you have any mercy or kindness in your soul. They madden me, these reflections. Amid the sounds of battle tempests and the war of conflict I have sought to stifle them; then in charity do not bring them back so vividly. I am wholly conscious of what I might have now been, had it not been for this besetting friend, this hydra-headed de- mon, intemperance, Though I am confident she never loved me: she drove me from her with her coldness, piti- lessly. In this world she will never know all that her memory, detached from my sinful life, and enshrined in the temple of what I once was, has been to me; and it would sweeten my dying hour, and make death less un- welcome, when his certain rapid approach has so long been my only hope,-it would make almost joyful the last frail remnant, to feel a surety that it would cost her one pang to know that my head was lying low in a charity grave." A few scalding tears coursed down his wan cheeks and fell upon the plain coverlet.     304       ETNA YANDEMR. "Do you then love her so dearly still?"Etna spoke feelinrly, sympathizingly. "Do I love her! Does the day love the glorious sun that makes it bright? Love her! God alone knows how. She will know, perchance, when the secrets of all hearts shall be revealed, and she and I stand together at his throne. There has been no hour of my lile when this dream and vision came to me, in which I Would not have sold my soul, 'n dying to win one ray of Mellie Hastings' love. Love her! yes, as the redeemed love their God." Etna gently and pityingly bent down and smoothed the hair from his pale forehead. Her own sweet love, re- newed in the majesty of its strength, had taught her sympathy with them. Her words were tremulous. "I will bring Mellie to see you, Gerald, and she may herself tell you all that she may wish you to know." So saying, she joined Mrs. Reynolds, whom she saw in another portion of the building. That lady greeted her kindly as usual. "I am pleased to meet you here, Etna, knowing that you came of your own accord; though I see by your face wearing so constrained and pained an expression, that your glimpse of hospital scenes has been far from enter- taining to you. Yet it is only the darkest phase that is presented first. We soon become inured to the aspect that suffering-wears, and finally come to experience an exquisite joy in soothing it. Our efforts, too, are often crowned with a triumph so pleasurable in the gratitude of those to whom we minister. "The adjutant is much better to-day. Will you go home with me to dinner?" "No, thank you; I wish to see Mellie particularly. Gerald Seville is here; I wish her to see him." "Yes. I myself saw him this morning early. I am sorry to know how far that young man has wandered. I knew his mother well: a lovely woman she was, belong- ing to the early school of Puritans. It would have broken   ETNA VANDEMR.         305 her heart had she lived to see the wreck that Gerald is. At eighteen he became sole inheritor of a handsome patri- mony, and plunged into a vortex of fashionable extremes. He joined Hunt's regiment in July last. At the battle of Shiloh they met the Louisville Legion face to face. There is no record in the annals of the past struggle that tells of any combat to equal this. Concentrated strength and prowess on the one hand; reckless bravado, courageous defiance, upon the other. The conflict was for a long time protracted, and the result doubtful; but at length the mighty rock gave way, rent and cleft by thunder-storms of leaden hail, shattered by artillery 'that shook the solid earth.' The-victory was hardly won, fearfully contested. Buell's division deployed grandly as though on dress parade;' but at a fearful sacrifice. For my part, I do not esteem that a victory, which costs so much. The ex- penditure of blood is frightful, terrible,-a price to be paid throughout eternity." Etna shuddered at the remembrance. Mrs. Reynolds added, quickly gathering up her silken drapery as she de- scended the stairs, "I must hasten: it is already our dinner-hour, and the Doctor is- savage as a Norway bear if I am not home to dinner. Remember you are engaged for the coming week, the last of Lorraine's stay." Etna walked home slowly under the bright noonday, thinking of the two young lives blended in love, yet severed in their cycle of life by-the world that both wor- shipped. How darkly now the -shadow of desolation was closing around them. She thought that both would be better enabled to endure the hours that followed,-it would brighten the slow days, the few that he would spend on earth, and ease her heart of its weary weight of aching and unshared pain, to know that he had forgiven her. She passed into the hall, pausing to remove her bonnet and mantle; she thought that dinner must be waiting. She heard voices in the drawing-room, amid which she     306        ETNA VANDEMR. recognized the bird-like tones of Mabel Winchester in re- sponse to Mr. Hughes' pointed gallantries. She heard with torture her cousin's careless reply to his badinage, and in the repartee that succeeded her merry laugh rang out, as she, at the request of Alice Gladstone, swept in prelude the keys of the silver-toned instrument, prepara- tory to singing that beautiful, pathetic ballad, "t Evange- line." Etna shut the light tones from her ears. She had no patience with a life such as this, of sycophancy and hypocrisy, in which there was neither present joy nor atonement or palliation for the past. It was a mockery, the hollow pretensions of Mellie. Etna sat upon the rich sofa, listening to the soft, plain- tive air, swelling with the burden of its exquisite melody. The tones were liquid clear, but the fine voice trembled slightly in the second stanza, and she loved her fair cousin better for this manifestation of feeling. Why did she so constantly crush her heart, to find surcease of sorrow for a little season in what must eventually mar the harmony of the whole. That is not always best calculated to alle- viate our grief which renders us for the time being oblivi- ous to it. Solitude and meditation are after all the best comforters; our griefs soon lose their stern aspect when we familiarize ourselves with them. We should drain the marshes of life, and not attempt to scatter flowers on the surface of stagnant pools. Not by reckless defiance, but by patient waiting and watching, must we guard and con- quer ourselves. Etna received Mellie's guests at dinner. Mr. Hughes bowed low over her hand, saying, "I have not had the pleasure of meeting you, Miss Van- demir, since the interesting little episode which you may remember, and which is fresh in my mnemory from the fact of your having so persistently eschewed society, even your own select set, since then. That circumstance, if reports be true, was doubtless the turning-point in your destiny." is I have not been out," replied Etna, aware that some   ETNA VANDExMR.         307 response was required of her. "Aunt and myself have been much engaged caring for a friend who is ill, and whose claims upon our time aiad attention were other than those of ordinary acquaintanceship." She thought by -speaking thus fearlessly to silence his inuendoes. She was mistaken. ,4 Besides, he wore the ' blue,' rendering his claims more binding than you once found them. I had heretofore deemed you freer from that peculiarly feminine attribute, caprice, than many of your sex. The conclusion is natu- ral that this distinctive -badge is likewise a passport to your favor. I am advised of half a dozen young men who would grow grey in the service that they might win such a testimonial of preference as you have manifested for Adjutant Lorraine, and receive at your hand the kindly attention you have bestowed gratuitously upon him." The hot blood mounted to her temples, as she answered. ( He at least is too gentlemanly to misconstrue me or pervert my motives; notwithstanding others who are less charitable and possess less reverence for truth might do so.  Her glance fell witheringly upon Mriss Winchester. She was well aware from whom Mr. Hughes had received his impression. Rumors of misrepresentation had reached her from other quarters: she well knew the source whence they all came. He, somewhat alarmed at the serious construction she had put upon his raillery, spoke again. "I am sure I could never do so, Miss Etna. I admire you for them; and for this generosity, I claim that you should sympathize meanwhile with Ashby and myself, who could not be brought to bear our disappointment with lamb-like composure. In the matter of the equestrian excursion, you remelmber, projected but not completed." "Did you not consider my apology worthy of your ac- ceptance?" asked she, more quietly. "Most assuredly; but I am  sure you must deem it a     308        ETNA VANDEMIr.  pardonable weakness when you feel the surety that either of us would have esteemed it a favor, the privilege of ex- changing positions with the suffering Adjutant." "c For my part, I do not censure her," interposed Alice Gladstone. "I think her preference entirely natural, be- stowed as it was upon a hero of Shiloh. I myself never see a handsome young officer passing the streets, but my heart gives a great bound. I only wish Dr. Hastings were here, so that I might demonstrate to him how much higher a niche in the temple of memory he occupies, as we saw him last so gloriously handsome in his regal 'blue,' than when with us he wore his citizen suit." i Will you not spare your host and myself in your sweep- ing invectives against 'quiet, peaceable citizens' who prefer remaining at home to enjoy the fragments of a crushed and broken Union, ere the last vestige of our glory has passed away, to lending our aid in the invoca- tion of worse disasters, notwithstanding eagle buttons are quite the order of the day?" It was Mabel Winchester who spoke now. c I am astonished that Miss Vandemir should manifest such preferences. I have repeatedly heard her express herself in terms of violent opposition to the war in all its bearings and aspects. An eloquent voucher for Kentucky's position, one would scarcely expect to find her wrapping the mantle of her kindly charity around one who is a par- ticipant in its scenes." "You ladies are creatures of air," interposed Mr. Hughes, --' never at home in one element, always undergoing some startling transmutation from one sphere to another,--all liable to change." "Shle must have changed very remarkably since the evening of her debut. She then remarked in a conversa- tion with my cousin, that any man or woman who would deliberately disregard a moral obligation would thereby forfeit her respect forever. And yet she did this to Mr. Ashby and yourself."   ETNA VANDEMR.        309  c She added," interposed Alice, who sat near and heard her words, ' without some palliating circumstance;' sho said, ' disregarded a promise.'" ' Thanks, Alice, for your kindly aid, though I must confess, if left to certain vanquishment, I should never have thought of justification at such a tribunal," Etna said very quietly. "i You would find the task more difficult than you ima- gine, requiring somewhat more of an effort than that which you have just made to secure a refractory lover,-for such I know my cousin to be. Else would he have turned so coldly away and left you weeping upon the piazza at the pavilion? That interesting little drama had several spectators. The stage should have been more extended: others would have enjoyed it as much. When he recovers, you should rehearse that farewell scene for the benefit of the public. It would be interesting as well as novel, to those even who are dying of ennui." Etna rose to her feet, standing stately and calm, her cheeks glowing, her eyes blazing with anger, presenting a vivid contrast to her manner. Her poignant sense of out- raged feeling was manifest in the cutting irony of her sub- dued, quiet tones. "Remorse is a fearful disciplinarian, rigid and just, yet it has failed to teach one so obstinately callous either charity or truthfulness. Even admitting the truth of your assertion, to which I concede not a shadow of justice there could be none in the act of your measuring motives by a standard so low, weighing intentions upon a scale so nar- row. I will only say this much: It would be worse than useless, any attempt of yours to reclaim the love of the man whose favor you sought to win; since his continued silence is the very natural result of the discovery of your abhor- rent duplicity and falsehood. It is your policy to refrain from futile endeavors, thereby sparing yourself the morti- fication of an abject and signal failure. The space, moral Vpace, between you is boundless as earth and sky. \ ,      310        ETNA VANDEMR. c'You misunderstand me if you think to enforce secrecy in an affair, the knowledge of which should blast you even in the estimation of the affectionate coterie whose smiles you so fawningly supplicate. I have not spoken heretofore, notwithstanding your repeated efforts to malign me. In future I shall be less charitable, and I would advise you to beware how you take my name upon lips so prone to falsehood and dissembling. Henceforth, I forewarn you, overtures for a renewal of our acquaintanceship will meet with no response from me. I should think very meanly of myself should I ever condescend to an interchange of other than unavoidable civilities. "Aunt, uncle, cousin, Alice, Mr. Hughes, I humbly im- plore your pardon for this outhreak. I leave you to form your own estimate of the provocation,-unquestionably preconcerted and premeditated." Her uncle's tones were full of reproach. "Etna! be seated. I am sorry you have so far forgotten what is due a guest of ours as well as your own." "I hope you will permit me to decline the honor of this visit. Whilst I regret the necessity that forced me to speak, forbearance exercised for two years has ceased to be a virtue; more especially in this instance, since she seemed so entirely oblivious to a duty to my aunt and yourself as host and hostess. If she forfeits her claims to respect, surely I should be pardonable in that I failed to remember them." She resumed her seat deliberately and coolly. Mr. Hughes gazed with surprize. "Shall I award you my sympathy, Miss Winchester? It is marvellous that you have survived the attack from this female Caesar." "Thank you, Mr. Hughes; I am not utterly annihi- lated, from the fact that the shots fell far short of the aim.") It is frequently the case that those unaccustomed to strategy are apt to aim too high," remarked Etna quietly. G   ETNA VANDEMR.        3" "c Will you join our party in the drive this afternoon?" asked Mr. Hughes. "c Whither?" answered Etna. "c On the Rose Cottage road." "I fear it will be impossible, as I have an engagement for cousin and myself that may interfere in point of time. Ours is one that cannot be deferred. I have promised for her, and we are to visit a friend at the hospital this after- noon." ' I beg your pardon, Miss Vandemir; I have the honor of Miss Hastings' promise for five o'clock. Did she assent to this?" said Mr. Hughes, in smothered anger. "'Mine is simply a request," answered Etna quickly, and turning to her cousin she said, "c Gerald Seville is dying, Mellie; will you see him? He wishes it. Neither he nor I command; we only supplicate." "But I command," interposed Mrs. Hastings. "I too promised this, and Mellie must see Gerald once again." The bright tints faded from her beautiful face as roses bleached in summer showers. She neither assented nor declined, and Mr. Hughes-in his deepest heart he hated Gerald Seville for the love he bore to the woman of his heart-spoke now rapidly and excitedly. She saw from the red gleam in his eyes that the demon of his soul, jeal- ousy, was aroused. I, as your friend, Miss Etna, have no objection to your having taken a charity ticket for the season, but in mercy to me I protest that you make not an ambassador of your cousin. Her feminine delicacy would naturally shrink from such contact end such exactions." ",I have no response to make to your expostulations, Mr. Hughes; they are entirely out of the range of human- ity." Turning to Mellie, she added, "Will you go with mle? Make an unbiased decision." A sentence whose every word was a heart-throb was her * answer. "Yes, I will see Gerald, if he wishes it."'     312        ETNA VANDEMR. What heeded she then the pallid face and fierce eyes turned deprecatingly upon ler? How he had manoeuvred to keep them apart, monopolizing each moment of her tim2 which he dare encroach upon; and now it was too tanta- lizing, that at this last moment they should meet. For once, he failed to be gallant in his leave-takings. Four o'clock found the cousins waiting at the entrance of Hospital No. 3 Melhe had no difficulty in gaiingi admission upon producing her mother's card of attendance. They found their way through the long wards. Many a wan suffering face was lighted with a genial smile on be- holding Etna. Her reward had begun already. Grati- tude far outgrows the charity that generates it. Mtcllie grew sick, and, laying her hand tremblingly upon Etna's shoulder, she said impatiently, "I cannot endure this; let us go immediately to Ger- ald." They passed to the side of the young rebel officer, whose face and bearing had won for him many tributes from those who came and went oftentimes with the hour, some never seeking or caring to return. The kind-hearted physician in attendance was bending over him, gently as if he had been a beloved son. "The young man is sinking rapidly," he remarked to Etna. With a convulsive shudder, Mcllie sank, as though stricken by a brutal blow, down by the side of the man whose blighted life was dearer now to her than during the years of health and strength that he once might seemingly claim his own. She threw back her veil, and, taking his cold hand into her own, fair and jewelled, forgetting her surroundings, as the unknown faces bent in curious scrutiny upon her, she spoke. "Gerald, do you not know me? Only speak to me once again! Oh! Gerald, is this the end of all? Why did I send you away?" Etna walked sadly away. There was such crushing r NVUHV H6   ETNA VANDEMR.         313 despair in the ton3s, such utter hopelessness. Ah! what a tale they told! The expiring flame rekindled as he looked upon her whom his heart had already recognized, though his mind was wandering through dim paths of thought, preparatory to entering upon its last long pilgrimage, when it should know earth's walks no more. 'is Mellie! is it you?" There was that in his voice that revealed how it glad- dened him, that face coming like an angel's through the gathering shadow. He grasped her fragile hand as though he would bear her whither be journeyed, lest he should again lose the way in weary wandering. ("Yes, Gerald, it is I. The barriers have all melted away in the suffering of these moments, and I am not too proud to say I love you. Better than I love my life. In this rosy existence you were its first hope, first joy.' I have loved none beside, nor will I. Oh! Gerald, in this bitter hour, God well knows how I am all, all your own." And she kissed his cold lips, as she felt and knew that the death dew was gathering there. Deep in her soul there was a wild agonized prayer for the dying. She did not realize how much less need he had than she who tremblingly, hope- lessly, lived on. As a meteor crossing the disk of the waning moon, making gloriously radiant earth and sky, so was the gleam that came upon his dying. face. This last glimpse of failing earth was very, very beautiful, fair as a dream of heaven. The waiting and watching had been long, yet here was compensation ample for each long hour of un- reached hope in those few words. He saw the visions of his vain dream mirrored in the sunset heaven of the life that was sinking into night; and before the dread "too late"? came back, and the tinted radiance faded, he passed from the limits of earth to the time and the life that were cndless, for eternity was there. Very beautiful was the still soulless clay upon which     314        ETNA VANDEMR. they looked. Fair faces frozen in a stony calm went forth, returning again in the early morn with flowers, fragrant and fair, the spring's first tribute, and laid them gently, smiling through their dewy tears, beside the sleeper. They stood mutely by, while with burning hearts they saw the coffin closed, and rude hands nail down the cover of the close box in which it was placed. Their prisoner was well secured. How cruel and unnecessary seemed the precaution. They heeded not that wondering eyes had looked on while the fairest of the twain had kissed the still lips, nor then had paused to inquire cc what the world would say." She cared not while this mountain of grief lay so heavy at her heart; she only felt that a long stern task, world-wide, lay before her, and she remembered that the long way must be walked. smilingly, while her soul was bowing beneath its weight Qi untold anguish. Mrs. Hastings' carriage preceded the rough wagon that bore the remains of Gerald Seville to their last resting- place. "Cousin," said Mellie, " can we not have him placed in our enclosure?" "The military authorities would not permit it. He was his country's enemy, you remember. His death-bed and grave are a charity he receives at the will of the Federal government." Mellie uttered a low moan, in which was expressed all she felt that he whom she so loved had died a traitor and a pauper. In life nothing is persistently steadfast, but its dread changes. Destiny is change, and fate is death. As upon the dull grey Christmas day, as upon the other sadder day in the blossoming summer, when they came with Nellie Weston to her last home, they passed now through the templed realm of death. The graves wore smilingly their Maytime green, and bright-winged biids were singing in spring sunshine upon the little lone tomb of "Minnie," with its urn and dewy flowers. This tribute   ETNA VANDEMR.        315 was daily placed there. There was in the fair young mother's heart no resting of the grief that mourned an angel missed, that for a brief sweet time had the earth way gladdened. There will be the shadow of no tomb in the land where they may clasp their beautiful treasure once more. Etna looked about her upon the long rows-hundrceds of soldiers' graves. The open one, by the last of those set apart, contained the senseless clay of enemies to country and state. A narrow board at the head, with a card tacked upon it bearing the name of the unwept, was the sole heritage of some who in their own land were kings in mind and heart. The rain in maly instances had obliterated the frail pencilling; in most it was barely legible. The spot where slept their loved dead would not be recognized by friends who might one day seek them. "Six feet of soil, a nameless grave in a stranger's land," said Etna, audibly. This was the heritage of the brave fellows who died fighting for their homes. Was it their fault if they were misled? Yet the retribution was fearful. . Where should the avenging hand fall when raised in vengeance against those who had inaugurated this fearful strife? The same careless hands removed the box firom the wagon and lowered it into the open grave. She who loved him heard the clods rattling down upon it, with a dull, dumb suffering at her heart and a fierce burning in her brain. There were no mourners save those two, no long line of carriages ;--a friendless death and lonely burial, a charity grave! And this is the man whose friends had graciously assisted him in squandering his patrimony, boon companions of the festive hour; and now they smiled and frolicked and chatted: no time had they for thought of the missing one. And this fragile link of air, thought Etna, severed by a breath, is the world's friendship. Was this what the     316        ETNA VANDEMR. apostle meant when he said, "I charge ye that ye love one another"? The men paused not in their hasty labor until the grave was filled, heaped. Then they patted the moist dirt with their spades, and drove the wide plank down at the head; and Mellie in her dumb stupor still gazed. Men become callous to such sights and scenes. Besides, how could they have known that the freshness of her heart, the fair and beautiful, with the wealth of its love, had gone down with that young rebel into his grave. No! no! none knew save Etna, who kept the crushing secret-for her cousin wore a gay mask: none saw the sickening pallor or knew the heart sinking beneath. Mellie leaned heavily on her cousin's arm, as she walked up the marble steps of her beautiful home. When Etna left her she walked restlessly through the magnificent rooms with that still white face at her side. Dinner came and passed; she was much the same as usual. Even her mother knew nought of what was passing through her heart. The apathy, far more terrible, had succeeded the tempest. During the afternoon, when Mabel Winchester called, she met her with a counterfeit smile that was almost real. This haughty woman of the world was always loving and gentle to Mellie Hastings, and now she laid her small hand affectionately upon the listless one that rested in its faultless beauty upon the chair nearest her, and exclaimed, "Darling friend! you are not well. What has hap- pened?" The flood-gates were open now, and the torrent of un- shed tears gushed forth: the ice was broken up. It was long b)efore the storm was past, and she looked up into Mcllie's wlite face, with anguish equal to her own, and that worse torture, suspense, stamped upon it. "Your brother! is he ill?" gasped she, when the power to articulate was hers. "Have you heard from him lately?" "Yes," answered Mellie, remembering herself. ( His   ETNA VANDEMR.        317 divisioni is further South. He was quite well when last lie wrote." The agony passed from the beautiful face of her who loved the secret consuming her, and the sister's suspicions were confirmed. When Mabel took her leave, there was a sorrowful, de- precating expression in her manner, so gentle and subdued, so unlike her former self, that the heart of her who mourned its dead love went out in tenderness; but she forgot her sensations when Miss Winchester, a moment later, with a return of her former vivacity, inquired if she attended the summer circle at Judge Gladstone's in the evening. "I understood Mr. Hughes that you had pro- mised, and it is his intention to call for you." "No! no!" answered Mellie, shrinking as with an in- ward convulsion. Two scenes, thought she, would kill her. This last were more cruel than the first. In one twenty-four hours she could not have borne it. She penned a brief note of declination; notwithstanding which, he called early in the morning and requested to see her. She was excused upon the score of illness. He left the house in a blinding rage, the fell demon of his nature blazing wrathfully in his eyes, muttering that he ",knew it would be thus," and anathematizing Etna, whom he passed at the gate without recognition. He knew not that the rival he feared was chained by a sterner conqueror, nor that the victory, so hardly won, was his in the last hour. Etna, accompanied by Dr. Reynolds, who left her at the door, returned from her daily visit to the invalid, who under his kind and judicious treatment was fast gaining re- newed strength and vigor. She found her cousin sitting list- lessly in her handsome toilet-chair. She had never looked more lovely than now, with her chestnut hair unbound, and her sweet face silvered over with a flood of glittering moonbeams. -She came softly through the open door and laid her hand upon the cold arm, as Mabel had done.     318        ETNA VANDEMR. "Shall I ring for Julia to light your gas, cousin?" :No, no," answered Mellic; "I love to sit here, and look upon the beautiful moon, the only face that smiles upon his grave. Was I wrong in inaking the last frail remnant of life so bright by telling him of my love?" There was something more touching in the sadness of her tone than would have been expressions of the wildest grief. Etna's tears fell fast as she asked the question, the response to which would lessen or increase the dread weight upon her heart. "Mellie, can it be possible that you promised Maurice Hughes to marry him?" "6 Heaven forbid!" she answered, with shrinking horror, remembering his anger and his renewed appeals within the fortnight past. "Why do you ask me this? I should have thought you would have doomed such a query un- necessary." "He requested uncle's permission to address you, a few weeks since. I met him departing as I came home. I was aware of his jealousy, but thought he manifested more chagrin in the affair than was exactly becoming in other than a privileged lover." "He was exasperated at my refusal to see him," replied Mellie indifferently,-" my plea of indisposition, when he met Mabel Winchester, whom I had descended to receive a few hours previous." "s Qh! cousin, you will not marry him? 1 implore you not to barter your soul's wealth for his position. You do not love him. An unloving wife has a thousand trials of which you never dream. Besides, the necessity is very remote that you should marry any one, least of all him. You are entirely uncongenial. You are yielding and sub- missive; he stern and tyrannical,--taciturn, the world says. Where there is no assimilating current to blend and harmonize two natures so diametrically at variance, there can be no happiness. Think, then, of the long weight your heart must wear, unresting ever and always."   ETNA VANDEMR.        319 "Spare me this appeal,-at least its protraction or re- newal,--for I most solemnly assure you that Maurice Hughes and myself can never be more to each other than we now are." She bent forward her head until it rested upon her hands, clasped on the arm of the huge chair in which she sat. A convulsive shudder ran through her frame, and settled its ice upon her heart, as she remembered him, the wildly worshipped, in his lonely grave. Oh! strange, contradictory and incomprehensible pro- blem, woman's heart!--a mystery in itself, and a puzzle to her. Who has ever yet been enabled to follow the changeful current that wanders through wildernesses of her capricious fancies? Even in the bright sunshine of her love we may not follow whither they lead; how then shall we keep pace with her roaming? Maurice Hughes was more persistent than most men would have been under the circumstances. -He was well aware that women in suffering are more easily moved than in seasons'of exult- ing happiness. Before another week had passed, Mellie Hastings was the betrothed wife of Maurice Hughes,- had promised to walk with him life's stormy ways and share with him its resting seasons,--to love, honor, and obey him. Do not start, dear Reader. The world is filled with acts involving these bitter mockeries. It was not so in the beginning. It will be so in the end; and after- the future must reveal. The bright May days were gone. June came dreamily heading a procession of longer days, passing more wearily under warmer skies; though the perfumed breath of her flowers was sweet, and the rose garlands that she scattered were fair as the blossoms of Eden. Cheerily the birds sang all through its long golden days, until the last Southern sun sank gently as drooping orange-blossoms in the calm bosom of the lake, ere the twilight of its summer stillness came on,--passionless, and resting in the gather-     320        ETNA VAN DEM1R. ing darkness. As the day in its glorious brightness was fair, so was the night, and so was the coronet of white roses, June's last, Mellie Hastings' bridal wreath, as she, with lips yet trembling with tenderness of other words breathed to the silent ear that would hearken to them no more, made the responses that were vows and bound her an unloving though not an undutiful wii'e. Heaven help her! A bitter smile wreathed Etna's lips, and the old gleam of uncompromising hauteur in the deep eyes said plainly as eyes alone speak, in their glance to the manly form at her side, "I will never so wed; such will not be my bridal." He answered her with eyes as deep, for there was tenderness even more profound in the heart that smiled through them. Adjutant Lorraine, for it was he, was much improved, though still slightly lame from the dislocated joint caused by his horse having fallen upon him during that fearful engagement. He carried his wounded arm in a sling, but in all things else he was unchanged; he looked the same ardent lover that had crossed hopeless seas two years be- fore, save that now joy in its radiant transformations sat upon the brow which then had worn "the sullen calmness of despair." The bride was exquisitely lovely, though pallid as her crowning wreath. But to Etna there was torturing hol- lowness in the tones that responded to the stereotyped congratulations. Her eyes were unnatural in their fear- ful brilliancy, and her lips, too, slightly tremulous, as she crushed the rosy wreaths upon them until they paled and writhed into sycophantic smiles. But of this the great world, so wise in its assumptions of knowledge, knew nothing. Alas! she too was one of those stricken sufferers of earth-- "Who dare not look beyond the tomb, Yet cannot hope for peace before."   ETNA VANDEMR.        321 Affectionate friends, those of her coterie who had, her welfare at heart, readily decided theirs a fortunate and appropriate union. Mrs. Hughes was much beloved. She was genial and gay, so very unlike her staid cousin. She would make a charming wife for the man who was con- sidered the greatest catch in the land,--handsome, wealthy, intelligent, unexceptionable in his walk, abounding in moral and social virtues of the most exalted stamp. And these were their comments, while the young husband and wife journeyed for a month upon a protracted tour. They knew nothing of the crushed hope and sinking heart, and the tide of memory running strong below. None save Etna, and she, who had passed through the trial of a stormy grief, would have prayed, had she known how she might word her prayer, that strength might be given t the fair frail one to sustain the burden of this unequal yoke. The world would smile with her; yet what knew or cared it for her struggles, had they been manifest? It is callous and philosophic, when we feel ominously calm, when the stormy tides of sorrow overwhelm us,--smiling ever when the waves close above. It wears still its busi- ness aspect, even in our soul's sabbath of quiet rest from the tortures, and sends its everyday thoughts and cares crushing through heart and brain. The strongest may not always wear the counterfeit semblance of meaningless propriety in such unequal unions, -more especially when the chain is golden that binds us to the past, as in the future we feel that we never shall be bound. Prudence cannot always still the bounding pulses, when we go back in thought to the sunny smiling shore where a wild vain dream is sleeping upon a pillow of un- reached hopes, though its joys were blossoming in memory, through dews of affection still pearly and bright, and then through mazes of change, with the voices that, like spirit-music to our souls, whisper of the other time. We adjust the toil-worn burden, and resume our weary path, cover with a careless smile the hidden places in our souls. 21     322        ETNA VANDEMR. Grief never walks the highway, in a garb of sackcloth. Her garbs are always fair, her visage cheerful; her struggles are known only to the solitude. Iabit, that king of exigency, may smooth the surface; but, stern monarch as duty is, it cannot fetter thought. Over sunniest plains and farthest-reaching hills and vales, where shadows lie darkling, earth's unresting wan- derers pass, "Weary eyed and wearier heartecL" The way is long, and the miles are hours in the stern dis- cipline of life to those who learn love's trials in conjunc- tion with its first sweet lessons. Hear the words, so truth- ful and pathetic, of that sweet poetess whom all know, and knowing love. "A strange fatality attends on love: Too soon or else too late the heartheat quickens." Therefore, amid thickening mists and darkness, when stars too from its moonless life have gone out, we can but pray that the good kind Father who knoweth our need will give is strength to watch the dawning of a brighter day.   CHAPTER    XXI. ETNA AND HOWARD--- ER PROMSE; HTS HOPE--MELLIE IN HER NEW HOME--MABEL WINCHESTER VINDICATED-THE EVENING AT DR. REYNOLDS'--ETNA GIVES HERSELF TO GOD. VEnY brightly came and weni the sunny days of mid- summer. Angels swept the golden harp, and beauteous, ravishing strains flowed like the " river of a dream " from beneath the erial touch. Pantomimic scenes of life and death were enacted, and still the great panorama of time moved on. The great fashioning hand of destiny, never resting, never weary, performed its mission, the will of the Su- preme Ruler of heaven and the universe. Etna loved the summer-time, and from year to year, from the time she was a little child, she carried in her heart its pictures of land and wave, garnished with its fairest wreaths, radiant in the glow of its tinted skies. But summer for her had never woven garlands so fair, or smiles so bright, for she walked its paths exultant in the bliss of a perfect love. Fulfilment wove a halo over all. There was no shadow now in life, or heart, save that cast by the grief of those who were so dear to her. Mr. and Mrs. Hughes had returned from their northern tour, though they had purposed remaining the summer. The bride of one short month had grown weary, and had returned home to wear the galling chain of her uncongenial     324        ETNA VANDEMR. union. Etna observed with pain that she had lost some of the elasticity and rotundity of figure ; yet her spirits, in their undiminished vivacity, served still to delude the world. She was surprisingly volatile, wore lightly her smiles and tears, as though of life there was only the To- day, and no life beyond. It was almost a marvel to Etna how she could so well conceal all that was genuine feeling, and parade all that was unnatural. She had become ac- customed to this; it cost her no effort from day to day,- only occasionally the burden pressed more wearily, that she knew it must be ever there. The tortured expression of subdued restlessness in the beautiful eyes told a sad story. The craving of her heart was barely concealed by the assumption at times of a listless apathy, in which lurked much of determination to bear meekly her self- invoked horrors. The envied wife of Mr. Hughes, how well she succeeded in deluding her friends, with the as- sumption of her careless levity, into the belief that she was happy. A laudable aim  and object, yet many go through life from dawn to close without a higher, holier one; no occupation for hands that are listless, no resting dream of Christian hope amid the excitement of feverish and perverted existence. Ah! careless votary at an ephemeral shrine! You find there-were thorns amid those roses, glistening in silver dew. Your own hand placed them there. You must readjust it, so that wounds may be concealed under the crown. The practical husband pursued the even tendr of his way, never permitting himself to be influenced against his strict dogmas: what was deemed eccentricity previous to his marriage, early degenerated into dogged obstinacy and capricious tyranny. Perhaps he realized the truth, and had become conscious of his wife's want of affection. Etna thought that something of a petty revenge was mani- fest in his effort to compress the exuberant, versatile spirit into the same stoical current beneath whose calm surface his life flowed; and she saw too with pain and misgiving   ETNA VANDEMIR,         325 that her cousin's quiet, well-bred resistance was not suffi- cient to withstand the iron will and inveterate purpose that was trampling her life ruthlessly down. Etna thought in bitterness of soul of the long hard way of this happy child, with her breaking heart. She shud- dered at the sacrilege, and the self-imposed sacrifice. She did not forget her in the quiet afternoon drives, when she sat by her lover's side, and with a strange ecstatic glow in her heart and cheek, they tasted the fragrance of summer's delicious breath in the green woods, coming to them in the shadowy roads over which they passed. An- other month was gone, and still he lingered. Dr. Reynolds intimated in a most impressive manner, that when he per- mitted him to leave his house, he did n't wish to transfer him to another hospital. He wished to be assured that he was entirely-fitted for active duty, as it was more than probable he should have plenty of active service, for, in his belief, the war would not terminate in ten years.  i Howard had urged Etna to marry him previous to his departure, but she persistently refused, and the spicy Doc- tor heartily acquiesced in her decision, giving as a reason that she would have abundant time and opportunity to torture him when the war was ended,-adding that his in- valid arm was not yet sufficiently strong to defend him- self in case of a personal attack from a licensed guerilla! "By the way, Howard," continued he mischievously, "how are you to become reconciled to her proclivities, political and sectional? Htas she apprised you of these? Are you aware that she entertains strong Southern sympa- thies, anti-Federal views?" c"If she has failed in this, it is a notorious fact that you leave not done so," interposed Mrs. Reynolds. "I have myself heard you unfold this startling piece of intelligence at least half a dozen times." "Pardonme, my dear ; with due respect to your veracity, I must hint that for once your ears deceived you." It was Etna now who spoke.     326        ETNA VANDEM1IIo "( You are becoming conveniently forgetful, more especial- ly since you have assumed the unenviable prerogative of censor against my rebelism, as you choose to term opposi- tion to war, and uncompromisi g antagonism to the policy of a sectional administration!. ," I understand Etna," resp nded Mrs. Reynolds, ad- dressing her defence to Mr. Lqrraine. She feels as every other Kentuckian must feel wiose interests of country and state are distinct and dissevered from the heart's best affections. I never hear those whose homes and hearts are thus divided, as are our States, expressing themselves as having no sympathy or affection with "Southern traitors," but I stamp them in my mind as traitors baser still be- cause traitorous to their natural instincts,-more deserving of execration than those who, by their insane and reck- less leaders, were involved in the maelstrom with no alter- native to submission. Were they wrong in that they raised their hands in defence of their homes? For iny own part, I cannot bring my mind to hate those erring sons and brothers of the same national parent, notwithstanding they are enemies now." "Nor I," answered Etna quickly. "How often we hear the interrogatory, 'Where is the friend with whom we passed many hours so pleasantly?' Hear the response: 'He is in the rebel army!' In an instant all the strong ties of years are swept away by a breath of the insane sectional hatred that glows within. Is this natural? Is it just? Let them reflect an instant and consider his sur- roundings. Under similar circumstances, were similar influences and agencies brought to bear, they-themselves would have been there. What else could they have done? And then they will say 'poor fellow!' pityingly, while they must feel that they could never clasp again the hand that would strike him down because he was fighting for his home,--compelled to strike the blow, impressed into the service. Those North and South do not feel this as we do. They cannot; their hearts' affections are not distinct   ETNA VANDEMR.        327 from love of country. Were they compelled to erect aA altar of patriotism above individual hearts whose pulses were bound with their lives, and nurture the flowers that garnished the sacrifice with the blood of that heart, then they would not censure us that we would have had our State exempt from this fratricidal warfare. There is end- less recrimination between the belligerents, and it is unjust to brand all as secessionists because their hearts' sympa- thies, independently of political considerations, are with the land they love best. For instance, only a few days since I heard a Southern-Rights'friend insist upon it that Dr. Reynolds was an abolitionist, because he had heard him express his willingness to sustain the government under the present administration. And I defended you, of course, freeing you from the unjust imputation,-in my own opinion, at least. You see how much more generous I was in your absence than you are in my presence,--mis- representing me because I feel no affiliation with either section." "But remember, child, the good Father says 'They that are not for me are against me.'" "I consider your position as unapt as it is inaccurate; and I am sorry that a party having so widely the advan- tage in point of strength should resort to such strategy. Your comparison is sacrilegious. To extend your argu- ment, every man is a traitor who does not make himself a murderer to sustain his government. This institution of ours is exceedingly humane. Mr. Lorraine, I call upon you for aid. He is misrepresenting your section. He would have Mrs. Reynolds and I infer you are barbarians, thirsting for the blood south of our national dividing line." "I should most assuredly lend you my defence, Miss Etna, only I consider you quite equal to the task of sus- taining yourself and your position." "And others, as I can bear ample testimony," inter- posed Dr. Reynolds, "if we may judge from her spirited     328       ETNA VANDEMR. resistance to an attack upon herself involving a charge of partiality for handsome, gallant young officers, made by Miss Winchester a few weeks since at a dinner party at Mr. Hastings'." Etna flushed crimson. "Alice Gladstone informed me of the fact at the enter- tainment given at the Judge's the evening we all drove the fast teams to Belle View, and you, Etna, so persistently refused; and just as you had succeeded in impressing us with the conviction that you remained on Howard's ac- count, you insisted upon going home to see your cousin, and left him 'alone in his glory,' or to the affectionate companionship of his Havana. I will admit that Alice is a grand minx, an evil genius of this realm; but there are, unfortunately, scores like her," glancing significantly at Etna. Mrs. Reynolds spoke. "You should inform Howard of this, husband; you are capital at imparting accurate information. He can feel a certainty that you will judiciously withhold nothing. In this instance, at least, Etna may expect justice at your hands; you will eloquently and truthfully delineate her triumph." All eyes were turned to her: she felt the glance of her lover upon her as she constrainedly spoke, tremulously yet decidedly. "You are disposed to make a heroine of me; whereas no one is more undeserving such an honor. I felt myself both unkind and vindictive toward Miss Winchester, more on my friends' account than on my own. My theory of friendship is this: Those who would not defend to the uttermost any one sustaining such a relationship are un- worthy of the name of friend, when they do violence to the heart's secret instincts, and upraise no voice in justifi- cation or exemption from unkind imputations or wilful misconstructions." "Bravo, Etna!" exclaimed Mrs. Reynolds: "no elo-   ETNA VANDEMPI.        329 quence could be more efficient in reducing your theory to practice than this exemplification of its earnestness." Howard was pondering meanwhile the visible restraint and coldness manifest on the part of Mabel toward him on the occasion of her last visits at the hotel. It was palpable now, though incomprehensible and perplexing then. His cousin had malevolently misconstrued Etna's generous care of him. He readily imagined how her delicacy must have shrunk from such an ordeal. His brow flushed hotly; his lips wreathed in a scornful smile as he observed, cAnd Mabel, it seems, is still swaying her imperious sceptre, recklessly disregardful of others in proportion as she is herself devoid of the faintest element of that rare qualification, justice. She recognizes no claims of sym- pathy or attributes less exalted. She scarce knows the significance of the term humanity. I regret this more than I can tell. Mabel was not always so. She was my mother's favorite niece, and is her exact personal counter- part." Etna scanned his features. He was not unlike his fair cousin, and yet how very dissimilar they were! "sDo not speak too harshly, Howard. For my part, I compassionate her.' It was the old Doctor who spoke, and there was a shade of sadness in his face that Etna long after remembered. It revealed more fully than she had ever before realized it, the depth of genuine kindness his great heart con- tained. "Would you not imagine yourself entitled to some little consideration, did you love with a love unreturned?" he added. "A just retribution," thought Howard and Etna, ex- changing glances. Both were thinking of the cold Christ- nas day and its chimes, and the long grave hidden under its snows. Very brightly now it wore its summer wreaths, as though the pale sleepers were sweetly wandering amid     330        ETNA VANDEMR. glorified spirits in the realm of the redeemed, scarce fairer in dreams to them than the beauteous land of their love. A heart tried in the furnace of its faith echoed "A just retribution." Yes: according to man's estimate of jus- tice. But she remembered not that the great God who gave his life for sin said, "Judge not." Yet how is every erring one arraigned at the bar of man's delegated assump- tion, in the dispensation of authority. Writhing under the thunder-toned decree of Good Samaritans, they wander to the grave under the burden of the just verdict. Who shall know how heavily will go down the scale with error weighed, or how much heavier the temptation may prove in the aggregate? True, Mabel's was a crime with no palliating circumstances; yet it was the result of thought- lessness, and a lifelong misfortune. The Doctor, having gained his point, and silenced op- position, turned abruptly to Etna, saying, "By the way, child, I am well aware now how you passed those long hours at Wilton when you deemed Howard dead. But why did you write incognito? Did you not think we would be self-reproachful to discover how we had entertained angels unawares, and not properly appreciated our celebrity?" "I have never coveted the intellectual homage of any one," answered Etna, humbly. "I have listened, harden- ing my own heart to its voices that pleaded so wildly for love and sympathy.  I have not sought celebrity or literary distinction; I am content if I have succeeded in a single instance in establishing facts so calculated to in- sure happiness: that our friendships and our loves are im- mortal,-so nearly allied, too, even in this life, that the sentiment is often mistaken for the passion. Both are earnest facts, not fleeting fancies, instinctively powerful and supreme in their influences, and bearing upon material as well as immaterial existence. The aim of our lives should be to preserve perfect harmony between the two channels, so mystically blended and yet distinctive. So   ETNA VANDEMR.   -     331 entirely connected are they, that a rude crash may ex- tinguish the great lights of the soul, and leave us to grope in darkness the weary earth way, upon which no star of Divine faith may shine. We are as responsible, if we out- rage or pervert our higher and holier intuition, which, by the aid of spirit, brings us nearer to God, as though we should stain our souls with darkest crimes against his majesty. Love is the strongest tie of earth, the most glorious bond of heaven. It should be our study to pre- serve an equanimity of heart and soul. Instinct is the heart's voice; conscience, that of the soul. Life is all beauteous harmony when these two accord." (' Your theory is a beautiful one, Etna," observed Mrs. Reynolds, " and calculated to induce many who are reck- lessly making the inner life a combination of sounding discords, pause and reflect that every blow stricken to the heart through a medium of susceptible feeling, is stricken to God through the soul. But you do not succeed as well as you might. Your demonstrations are misty scenes often, as though you were bewildered in a maze of your own reflections, and I trace the manifest want to a primi- tive source, your soul's unrest." Etna dropped her head in thought. She was well aware how fearfully true were those words of her friend. She knew that Howard's eyes were fixed upon her in pain; yet she bravely raised her own to meet them. Their query was, How could you smile, thus when my heart was desolate, and your own was crushed into the clinging dust by the bitter pride that was the source of all this weary misery? Her answering glance was tearful and significant. In remorse, Howard, it was written, and in memory of my sainted mother. She then spoke, addressing herself to the trio. c"I am well awarehthe little volume is filled with gross errors; in truth it is a bundle of incongruities, sadly de- ficient in detail, erroneous in tenor. tIow could it well     332        ETNA VANDEMR. have been otherwise? 'Consider the source.' I repeat it: I did not aspire to a niche in the vast temple of Fame such as many of our women have so ably filled. I have never dreamed or hoped for distinction equal to that which the talented and accomplished writers of 'Adam Bede,' 'Beulah,' and the ' Household of Bouverie,' and others of equal merit, have achieved. It is never a vast, nor a very highly cultivated range over which genius or intellect may wander if fettered by our sympathies and swayed by individual experiences or prejudices. They are neither generous nor charitable who recognize no ties but those of inc+nation, who bow unconditionally to a system of 'elec- tive affinity.' " The days passed goldenly, so spell-like a serenity seemed the spirit of peace in the air. Neither had courage to speak of his departure. The wings were so shining, they paused not to think how swiftly they were bearing the moments away. It was his wish, he said, to be present at the approaching struggle at Corinth. "I must be gone. I feel once more as though I could deal ruin single-handed to a host of the chivalry. Though in truth I am not so much intoxicated with our success within the last few months, as to feel no misgivings in regard to the ultimate result. 'T is no child's play this, as both parties have learned to their sorrow. We can only trust in Him who is the arbiter of destiny. But, my own darling! when the smile of peace is abroad in the land, unsparing as sun- light, then you will be my own, my wife, will you not?" Her head grew dizzy; she dared not look upon the halo of high hope that sat upon his brow. She dared not meet that expression. Too well she knew all the strength and pawer of those eyes. She dared not look iftothe future: - moral desert established far and wide its barren arid sands; and, as above the ruins of Athens, Rome, and Sparta, the ghost of Freedom stalked, the shadowy skeleton of what once was her country's greatness. Peace! How hopefully he had spoken! Some one had said, "This means death   ETNA VANDEMR.         333 when monarchs speak." Was this the signification of the blood-bought peace to which he referred? Did they count the cost, the inaugurators of this fearful strife, when glorying in the sacrifice and purchase, or the world- wide bankruptcy necessarily consequent. But, of the mighty voices struggling in her heart, love now was strong- est far, and she bade him go forth, yet not without her promise brightening his life, that, when the struggle was over, she would be his wife. His hopes, his purposes, his aims, were hers now; instinctively she bowed to this supe- rior guiding spirit, whose will, through love, was her law. The introduction to this rosy element, as it swept on, puri- fying without barrier or ban, had stained to gorgeous hues the current of her life; glorious, unimpeded now, through earth it swept, to join the infinite sea of divine love at last. How small-an atom of transcendent wealth was it!-of the immortal radiance how tiny a ray! Mrs. Hughes had become formally established in her new home near her mother's. There were flowers rich and rare as those which blossomed in her youth; gilded volumes of classic and modern lore, to divert her mind from its melancholy and beguile her weariness. Her wishes were forestalled and consulted in all things. The latest publications were handed to her before the printer's ink was dry. She had but to smile and seem happy. Many will think this was not an effort requiring personal sacrifice. She admired the objects of vertu in her sumptu- ous home, appreciated and enjoyed, in a certain degree, the luxuries that the unloved husband's hand had scattered about her. She would have been very ungrateful had she not made the effort. So remarked Etna, when, cousinly greetings interchanged, she seated herself to enjoy her first visit. Mellie's answer almost disheartened her. "I have endeavored to do so, cousin, but I grow so op- pressed, so soul-burdened and weary with the effort! I am wicked, I know, but I could not, if I died for it, love and cling less to that bitter and yet treasured memory of .     334        ETNA VANDEMr. the wayward, erring dead. I hate these sculptured im- ages; they are so still, dead as he lies, while I am suffer- ing here. Oh! Gerald! would that I too had died! Darkness with thee were better than all this gilded radi- ance where thou art not." The fair face was bowed upon the marble table beside her, white and tearless as the dead one in its coffin, Grief like this, slow cankering, does not break up its gathered ices in tears. It finds no voice or vent, but broods, crushing, consuming the heart in which it sits. Etna was somewhat affected, yet it was more in anger than in sorrow that she mused upon the soldier-friend's grave, and remembered how the hand that smoothed his dying brow had woven an orange wreath for her own before the sod was grown upon it. She spoke with as- perity. "I should imagine you could find consolation in your church." "No! no!" answered Mellie, shuddering. ", When we outrage intuitive perceptions, a d heed not the voice of the silent monitor, conscience,-4n other words, cousin, when we are untrue to ourselVes,-then our Father's radiant face grows dim amidst the gathering darkness. The chosen saint speaks not, when God's elect have once turned a careless ear to the entreaties of a heavenly repre- sentative." This was true. She had sat in her cushioned pew in St. Paul's, read responses from her gilded prayerbook, not from her heart; consequently the words were meaningless sounds, empty as her marriage vows. The rich organ- notes were sorry discords, the litanies senseless jargon. It is a cruel blow, thought Etna, that disturbs the har- many of heart and soul, making it so difficult a task for us to learn to wear the vestments of an incomprehensible destiny. .There are seasons in every life when we should sink, perish and die, when all human aids fail, us, were it not for the anchor of divine faith in the promises of our   ETNA VANDEMR.        335 Redeemer. Heaven help us if we lose hold of the anchor that binds us during the inane hours and days that suc- ceed in pathetic listlessness a great sorrow. By constant watchfulness and prayer then may we draw near unto Him. Mellie at length raised her head, and spoke in strange, unnatural tones. "Adjutant Lorraine has taken his departure, I hear." "Yes; he left yesterday, taking charge of the convales- cents of his regiment who were so far recovered from their wounds as to be able to take the field again. Very singu- lar, was it not," continued Etna, by way of diverting her cousin's thoughts from their morbid dwelling-place,-"- very singular that we did not meet him when he was here so frequently during the summer. He saw you often in pass- ing; it was he who informed me of your fright and escape on the Fourth, last year. Though he was busily engaged all the time I was abroad and Harry in camp; and uncle, you are well aware, never goes out except to business. His cousin knew of his arrival and departure, but did not see him during the interval." Etna had now approached the issue, cautiously, but with decision. "It grieves me that you make so constant an as-  sociate of Mabel Winchester; her influence is pernicious. I should think there was little in common with one so per- fidious, false to every womanly instinct, unfeeling and unladylike." Mellie answered with more spirit than usual. "Etna, you wrong Mabel, cruelly wrong her. I can- not imagine why you are so persistently harsh to her; you are positively vindictive in this. Your feeling is more culpable that it involves injustice. Believe me, Mabel is not what you think,--callous, heartless. She is a woman of ardent feelings, and like myself, too, a suffering one.  "She deserves sympathy, doubtless," answered Etna, scornfully, "in her sorrow. I prefer to bestow mine on ,. -   '.               11I     336        ETNA VANDEMR. the unfortunate ones upon whom, in her remorse, she in- flicts reprisals for what she may have reaped of suffering in the field of error." "She does not suffer from remorse alone, but from mis- placed affection, with young Stewart. She would never have pursued it; she is heedless in such things, not purposely wilful. She is not more culpable than thousands who trifle daily with hearts loving as his, only they are more firmly poised,-whose moral courage was stronger, and physical strength greater than his. Mabel lacked discrimination. She is not at heart cruel, only so from custom. She does not possess many of the miserable qualities you ascribe to her. Her propensity to flirt is in itself a curse. Her punishment is very bitter, for, cousin dear, her life is far more hopeless than my own, even with the world of fashion at her feet,-a far drearier burden." "To what do you refer?" said Etna, recognizing the covert allusion, as her memory reverted to Dr. Reynolds' assertions of Miss Winchester's love for Harry. Mellie answered fearlessly and without hesitation. "They love each other, cousin, she and brother. She is wretched, and his life is miserable and hopeless; and I would rather see them united this hour, than know that each is so weary in their heart wandering. Mabel's love will make her all that she should be." Etna turned toward her a face all blazing with scorn. "I presume your religion has taught you this! The religion that drove you to the altar with falsehood on your lips would cause you to make a wreck of your noble bro- ther's life. I had rather be the veriest apostate that ever % lived than walk in such sacrilegious hypocrisy. I am wedded to no church. This has often been a source of regret to me, yet I am more than grateful that I am with- out the pale of a system requiring such sacrifices upon the altar of human charity. Charity loses its holy semblance when it is used to cloak sin. No, dear cousin, it is you who are deluded. Mabel Winchester would this day   ETNA VANDEMM.        337 scruple not to come even into your own house and win Maurice's heart from you, if she were needful of other victims; and should her caprice dictate such a course, no preconceived tie of love or friendship, yours or hers, would deter her." "I cannot argue with you, cousin; I never could,-you are so much stronger than I. But I cannot help thinking you will some day regret your harshness. Thken you will recall what you have said to me. Perhaps I deserve your taunts, but I will only remember your love and guidance  through all these years. If ever you should learn to be  more tolerant, then I will feel how much better it was that  I did not increase my already weary burden by assuming  the weight of an unkindness in regard to myself and Mabel, that was so unlike any other act of your life. Life is so  hard at best, cousin, we should never add a feather's weight to the task that a fellow traveller must bear." The beautiful cheek, white still as marble, was laid upon the small jewelled hands clasped on the table at her side. The gentle spirit, yielding and timorous, had conquered, and the strong will that opposed her bent like a reed in  the swaying tempest of inward feeling. Words, to be eloquent, need only be true. Mabel was vindicated by her weak friend. Etna at length answered brokenly.  "Cousin, I would wrong no one, not even in thought; and this day and hour, were you to furnish me proof that Mabel is what you think her, I would never for one mo- ment rest until I had atoned for this wrong to her, and I would devote my energies to her justification. I was the causo of Harry's rupture with her. I know I have been bitterly vindictive, cruel and unkind. When I think of Allan, and poor Clara, who was my first friend even when you failed to understand me, and what she was mercifully spared, I cannot feel otherwise toward Mabel. Yet she may be the greatest sufferer, and vengeance should not be ours. I will think upon what you have said. We will  wait. The day will bring its requiremen3ts."  22     338        ETNA VANDEMR. Mellie covered her cousin's hand with kisses, saying through her tears, "Darling! if suffering cannot in some measure palliate our errors here, how am I to atone for the wrong to that poor heart still beneath the summer clods? If God was not kinder to us than we are to each other, would we have courage to walk the stormy ways unfalteringly?" Etna bent and kissed her cheek, saying tenderly, c "Your old trust is coming back, cousin. Those who are strong to defend others cannot fail to sustain them- selves. I must depart now; I have promised to take tea with Mrs. Reynolds.  I will come again to-morrow." "' Etna, will you and Howard ever be married?" c; That is at present our intention, when the war is ended. Good bye, I am opposed to planning when one has so little material." And she left the wife's sumptuous apart- ment. Out under the clear sky, her respiration was less impeded. She thought what a iearful thing it was, this trafficking of birthrights, as she passed to Mrs. Reynolds.' On her way forth down to Jefferson street to do some shopping, she found it very difficult to move on through the mass of idlers and ragamuffins that attended a number of prisoners sent in from the South. She felt indignant that these demonstrations were tolerated. It was con- temptible, such a spirit, whether manifested by high or low, -braggadocio over a fallen foe. She, divested of the leaven of partisanship or sectional prejudice, could view these things from a high stand-point. No gale from North or South filled her eyes with the flying cinders from the passion-fires of their hatred. She saw, too, and the sight pained her, that the recognition of such desperate hatred was not the most potent means of restoring harmony, and paving the way to the restoration of friendly intercourse between the belligerent sections. Even this might only have been done in the spirit of retribution. How widely at variance was this with the spirit in which they professed to wage coercive discipline. Does a  kind father weep   ETNA VANDEMR.         339 and chastise in kindness the erring son, or does he taunt and goad him on to deeds of greater madness?   She stopped and waited until they had passed. Pity was the strongest feeling in her heart for those deluded men who were blindly following, the impulses of insane passion, in- cited and aroused by ambitious leaders. Each face told its story of a beloved home, treasured more than life, and desolate shades that echoed no more the sound of feet that were then and there marching to the enemies' drulm- beat, and the hearts so vainly and wearily waiting in the loved ones' absence. Some were very young, wearing an expression half reckless, half repentant.- All were gentlemanly in exterior, respectfully polite as she waved a small square of cambric and Valenciennes lace to them, touching their hats with true knightly chivalry. Thd bore their reverses with becoming dignity, amply verify- ing the trite aphorism, 66 True gentlemen are always gentle- men." Pondering thus, she found herself at Mrs. Reynolds'. That lady was a most charming hostess, and Etna was seated in the softest chair, divested of her lace point and hat, before she had time to do other than respond to in- quiries concerning her own health and that of the -Hast- ings', including the Doctor, from whom she had heard a few days previous.  She immediately proceeded to acquaint Etna with the aspect of affairs in the hospital which they had often attended together,--of those who had taken the places of the convalescents with whom Mr. Lorraine had gone. She succeeded in obtaining the consent of her young friend that she would aid her in carrying out many of her schemes for their comfort in any manner in her power. Now that Howard was gone, activity was what she most desired. They seated themselves at the sumptuous board. The hale old Doctor's face was all aglow with his home delight, as he stood up to dissect the broiled grouse, talking meanwhile as though it were treason to lose one moment,-addressing Etna, whom he saw daily, as though     340        ETNA VANDEMIR. at the close of the meal they were to separate with6ut the remotest hope of ever meeting again. In reference to Etna's promise of assistance, he said, "It is high time, my little termagant. I presume you are enlisted for the season. I shall begin now to have some faith in your loyalty. Heretofore it has been my honest belief, that, if you were a regiment in yourself, you would fight five hundred on a side, and would be insane enough to pray for the success of each." "Then you certainly wrong mno bitterly, in this," she responded, " for I do assure you I should reserve nine hun- dred and ninety-nine for my own defence, and that addi. tional one I should instal as bodyguard to Mr. Lorraine. 'Charity begins at home,' you should be well aware, as you have endeavored to impress upon your wife and myself." "And  Selfishness always ends there.' Extend your homily, will you, child,-clinging so pertinaciously still to that miserable fallacy, neutrality, exploded long since." "In Heaven's name, are you not always railing at the sex for inconsistency? Why do you object so emphatically to Our assuming a position for State policy that you have never failed, in the exercise of your boundless charity, to assign to us? Besides, did I not hear you assert that Kentucky had no business in this struggle: it was heart- rendin that she was here as she was,-divided despoiled, ravaged?" "Yes; I can answer to all that. Kentucky should not be as she is. Neutrality has been her curse, her ruin. Had she taken a prominent stand in the beginning, the mass would have gone with her: the State Government could have averted the calamities that have ensued." "And what position would you have had her assume?" "The one which, but for her cowardice, she Would. have taken before,--a stand in defence of her government, her country,--a stand she occupies proudly and fearlessly." "In what manner, pray, would you have disposed of the million pulses of fiery hearts whose birth was Southern,   ETNA VANDEMR.         341 whose every throb was for the South,-with her right or wrong,--hers without reservation, in reverse or prosperity ? As to the charge of cowardice, it is needless to answer that. The name of our State is and ever has been suffi- cient unto itself, always brightening the record upon which it is penned. Who has ever yet stood at the graves of Young, Clay, Harding, and McGee, without tears ? They are fair representatives of our State chivalry and gallantry. Your own statements play you traitor, and have arrayed themselves on- my side. Have you lost sights of your vaunted Louisville Legion, who, in the language of official reports, ' literally covered themselves with glory' ?  The brigade of which they were a part deployed amidst showers of leaden death-dealing missiles, and in dexterous double- quick went to the cannon's mouth. There is no need to cite further instances refutory of your charge. The Second Kentucky regiment is in itself sufficient to nullify them. Was it not the blood of our, State that changed the tide of the first day's battle, and wrote the name of Shiloh with victories won ? "No! no! Kentucky erred, doubtless; but I would have you remember, never once from cowardice. Her hesitancy was the most natural consequence imaginable. She is a Southern State, an alien, as she stands,-alone. You surely cannot blame her that instinct and natural affection were so strong?  And when weighed -in the scale of patriotism, the issue was so long doubtful. But I must hasten home; it will soon be quite dark." "Etna," said Mrs. Reynolds, pleadingly and signifi- cantly, "stay with us to-night. It is Saturday, and I wish you to attend our church to-morrow." -  Our church !" reiterated Doctor Reynolds. "See with what a grave air of proprietorship these exclusives assume their heritage, do they not ?" "What is our creed, Mrs. Reynolds?" inquired Etna, smiling. "We have none, Etna. Creeds are human inventiobas.    342        ETNA VANDEMR.  The basis of our hope, embodying the system of belief we claim, is just as it fell from the lips of the great Teacher. 'He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; he thai believeth not shall be condemned.'     i "Here is the injunction and the covenant. Itis brief, and yet embodies the necessity and the glory of a practi. al religion. There is no mysticism in this simple coml- mand, no intricate, incomprehensible theory, though the practical field of compliance and the duties involved are boundless as terial space. This appeal does not involve elaborate questions of metaphysics. It is the abstract of true heart-religion! religion of the intellect is not what we need. We do not require philosophy to tpach us the way to God and heaven. The simplest child is often richer than they whose minds are stored with the lore of dead centuries, and the foresight of genius detached from the great fountain of all knowledge." Etna mused. What had her 1hiiosophical research ac- complished for her? She had groped through numerous by-paths until she had lost the power to return even to the highway of abstract faith. She had toiled upon a moun- tain side, difficult of assent, high up in thin air, until, faintingly, she turned back to behold only a dim plain and the looming barriers of the rocky steep. She was sinking from her soul's want, yet there was no kindly hand to aid.  Always after this toilsome journey which she had performed all alone in her sorrow, during the desolate winter at Wilton, hours of reflection upon these topics en- gendered the same doubts and perplexities. De Quincey's life-picture came  to her  with its mockin g fairness and inward hollowness. Why this constant effort of soul to regenerate and exalt mind, if there was nought beyond  ? She had occasionally constructed elaborate theories, and pursued them until she had become oppressed and circum- scribed in the limit of speculations on this subject. Had not the profoundest logicians and the most rapt  idealists refuted with their last frail breath what they had en-   ETNA VANDEMR.        343  deavoured through years to accomplish?  She shuddered as she recalled the last words of Rousseau, and the fear- ful "leap into the dark" of another equally eminent. How much more forcible was the significance of that simlple command than all the written lore of these erudite dissectors of divine truth. Etna saw now her way clearly. c" ie that believeth."  Trust, implicit trust, alone was re- quisite; the promise was there in the same sentence. We may love God, thought she, but his ways are inscrutable, and the dispensation of his providence incomprehensible. Human intellect is impotent to unfold or elucidate the simplest miracle of divinity. Eternity alone would be sufficient to solve the dubious riddles that so perplex and harass us. Surely, in the infinitude of years we could not fail to con well the enigmatical lessons. Eternity I 66 From everlasting to everlasting" winged thought might fly un- fettered. Why does that word always calm us?       Its length and depth and breadth are nameless to our com- prehension. It is because the promise of duration even beyond what our finite faculties may grasp is guaranteed to us here. Change is the curse of material existence. Our hopes and joys are as sunlit bubbles upon the great sea: a frail breath may shiver them to atoms, and we love to think that this ghoul will not haunt us there. Etna proposed retiring. Mrs. Reynolds wisely left her to her own reflections. She stood at the open casement in solitude, looking out upon the great world mute beneath a canopy of dense night. Must she pray for the light, or plunge deeper into the dark gulf spread out at her feet? What sweeter illustration of the beneficent love of Him "who gave his life that we might live"?   There were seasons of relaxation in this world for his suffering ones, -thornless pillows where conscience might rest. "He giveth his beloved sleep." Slowly the impenetrable veil was withdrawn. Heaven's     344        ETNA VANDEMR.      '  sentinels sent down their golden light. They fell upon her darkened spirit as gleams of returning trust. The ice of unbelief was melted, and she prayed a prayer of feeling and hope. All the longings of those wayward years were worded there. The first repentant tears are very bitter, but the final gleam of answered hope is so sweet, it may well atone for all. Morning came from out the chaos of night, wearing a smile so sweet, so benignant, just as the Father must have worn when walking earth. With a tremulous sensation of exquisite deliglit at her heart, she accompanied her hostess to church. When seated, she inquired, !"Have you no organ?" "No; we employ no other embassy than the breath of heaven to bear our songs of praise to God." Etna felt thrilled as the chorus swelled. Heart and soul blended, one mighty voice, in those echoing anthems. The speaker arose. She knew him well; had very often met him in the social circle. There seemed a halo of glory upon his kindly beaming radiant face. .: His text was c the love of God." It was a theme, as she knew, boundless as aerial space, yet he was so entirely original in his applications, so eccentric in his illustra- tions, in the magnitude of his scope delineatijg so forcibly his conceptions of the divine atonement, that Etna felt herself spell-bound. With what glowing eloquence he pictured the scene of the cross!"He tasted death for every man." '"Whoso- ever will, let him come and partake of the waters of life freely." And then with touching pathos he summed up the Christian's hope in death, as set forth in the words of that aged apostle, more suffering and enduring than all,- more steadfast at last, because wayward in the beginning, --after depicting his execution for the belief he yet fear- lessly advocated. There was more power to her then in the simple words of the old man who died for his cause,   ETNA vANDEMmI4. .45 aan any rhetorical or elaborate sermon she ever heard. 'orcible because ever burdened with feeling. ,' I am now ready to be offered; the time of my departure s at hand. . I have fought a good fight. I have finished ny course. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there s laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, ;he Judge, shall give me at that day; and not to me only, but to all them also that love his appearing." Etna bowed her head upon Mrs. Reynolds' shoulder: she could not restrain her tears. Then, like soft strains of heavenly music to her ear, came the beautiful touching appeal. It was not by the fear of punishment that he moved them; it was by the chords of divine love he drew sinners back to God and the heaven lost to them unless they first bowed beneath the weight of the cross. Jesus had borne it; He left to us his example. He spoke of the second coming, and asserted that none knew but that our nation, converted, as it had become, into one vast battle- plain, might be the Armageddon of prophecy, and that the trumpet tones that urged those bleeding soldiers on to other victories might in truth be the herald of His second coming. His words carried conviction home to every heart. Then he urged upon them the necessity of imme- diate action. Qur mortal life was but this day. To- morrow was the soul's eternity. "Now is the accepted time; now is the day of salvation." Hearken then to the majestic voice! it is a kindly voice of love-the voice of Him who gave his life for you. Dear sinner, will you come to day? Come to the cross. "I am the way, the resurrection, and the life: no man cometh to the Father but by me.") I  She knew the tones of that mighty voice: their echo had sounded through the years as she heard them first by her friend's grave, then by the torrent's side,--mingling also in mournful cadence with the words of that bitter parting. The message now was from Him, supreme in earth and sl1y.     346        ETNA VANDEMR.  A soft hand sought hers, and a kind voice spoke to her. "; God help you, Etna, to do your duty." The audience were chanting that beautiful hymn ' nark the voice of love and mercy."  She rose. There was no tremor in heart or limbs, but a strength proportionate to the purpose that glowed in her heart. She walked firmly, resolutely forward, and gave her hand to the minister. It was then she felt the moun. tain rolling from her soul. During the afternoon service she was immersed. Almost like a glorified spirit she looked with the radiant light of her redemption upon her white brow,--that which all may receive, and all may wear ho "keep the faith." Her dress was of pure white; her jetty hair hung in masses upon her shoulders. A picture of unconscious beauty, the inner life shone through the frail lineaments. A love of Him to whom she then and there consecrated her life, filled full the measure of her soul, and a sweet charity of. thought, of word and deed to all the world was growing up in her heart. She would not have harmed the most erring, or detracted   from  the  self-glorification  of the mightiest of Gods     creatures.  Her afections warmed toward one and every member of the vast fraternal band, and it was a    proud hour when she stood in the area, and was welcomed to glorious sisterhood by an ardent, trust- ing clasp, and listened to the melody of the hymn ,, Come -in, thou blessed of the  Lord," that bound  them  firm, steadfast friends in Jesus unto death.    CHAPTER XXII. :HE HOME CIRCLE-ILLNESS OF HARRY-MABEL'S SECRET-THE MOTHER S GRIEF-JOURNEY TO HUNTSVILLE, ALABAMA-THE MARRIAGE. AN interesting family group was seated in the sumptuous arawing-room of Mrs. Hastings a few evenings subsequent to that which Etna spent at Dr. Reynolds'. Without, the night was white and still, radiant in the silver moonlight. Clusters of faded Catalpa-blossoms, odorous even in their decay, lay on the rich shorn sward of the grounds sur- rounding, and fragrant breath of Altheas came sweetly in the summer night. The gentlemen, Messrs. Hastings and Eughes, were seated upon the verandah, enjoying, by special permission of the ladies, the most delightful of Havanas, and discussing latest advices from Richmond, interspersed with comments on the army of the Potomac. Etna, clad in her snowy muslin, her curls unbound and gracefully falling, was half reclining on a fauteuil in a re- cess near an open bay-window, profoundly absorbed in the book she was reading. Mrs. Hastings and her daughter were seated somewhat apart from the remainder of the group, conversing upon indifferent topics, and George Ashby hovered near Miss Winchester, carelessly toying with a delicate tassel of blue and gold detached from her zouave militaire, which she wore becomingly and coquet- ishly; but he gazed wistftilly meanwhile at Etna, though 347     349        ETNA VANDEMR. she was apparently so absorbed in the perusal of cc Barren Honor," that she was entirely oblivious of his presence. His reflections were clearly ilot of the most pleasant nature, for, as if impressed with the hopelessness of his feeling for one evidently so supremely indifferent, he roused himself from his reverie with an effort, and re- quested Biss Winchester to sing, rising and offering his arm to conduct her to the instrument. cMake a selection," said she, sweeping with scientific preliminary flourish the pearly keys. "Casta Diva," please, interposed Etna, hastily, prefer- ing the request in advance of the remainder of the com- pany.  Mims Winchester readily complied, and  Etna, closing  the fascinating book upon her finger, listened attentively. A great change had passed over her recently. Heart and soul were at rest in a majestic calm, and the shadowy gloom was all gone from  her face and stonrmy eyes. Very sweetly the liquid melting strains rang out upon the evening air. Mabels voice, naturally a fine one, upon this evening was more than naturally pathetic. All were listening profoundly, for music's protean delights are ever varying, ever new. Etna's heart bled for the mis- taken girl as she listened to the tender, tortured wail in the tones. Mabel too was changed, but in this, as one who has long borne a weary weight will gradually sink at last overcome, so she was swaying beneath the crushing iron pressure. She wearied strangely of her cherished amusements, and had grown to spend very many evenings in the now quiet home of him she loved; and they were more pleasurable to her than the stormiest gayeties, now that she missed him everywhere. If I was only certain that slhe loved him, soliloquized Etna. I  could never bear that Harry's wife should be barren of affection. She is wealthy and beautiful, courted and admired, but what were these qualifications in a wife destitute -- Her ruminations were interrupted by the usually cerc- /,    ETNA VANDEMR.        349 monious entrance of Peter, who, having answered a sharp ring at the front-door, now entered, bearing a dispatch, a telegram from Nashville, by a special messenger from Huntsville, Alabama. Mr. Hastings came in ; then, hold- ing the paper very near the chandelier as he read, his face paled visibly, and he finally sank upon a divan, suffering acutely from the inward convulsion. Etna sprang forward, exclaiming wildly, "; Uncle, for sweet mercy's sake what is it? Oh! do not say that he is"----  She did not complete the sentence. A lithe form, now rigid and death-cold, struck hard the cushioned floor upon which it fell, as the dead fall to rise no more. "Take her to my chamber," said Etna very gently. The eyes that answered Mellie's inquiry were filled with tears. They bore her softly, inanimate still, to the cham- ber, and laid her upon the snowy bed. The process of resuscitation was tedious and protracted. Mellie and Etna remained by her side, while Mrs. Hast- ings, as one in a painful dream, wandered through'the house. Knowing little of what- had happened, she was very calm; only occasionally a few burning tears coursing their way down the mother's cheek told the story of her suffering. They were for her boy, whose dear head was lying low upon a couch of pain, no soft loving hand to smooth the torture from his brow, as thought travelled the many leagues between. He was ill, dying, dead per- haps, far from friends and home. Her husband had made arrangements for leaving on the morning following. The cousins watched long, and finally Melhe had retired to give vent to her overburdened feelings: when Mabel returned to consciousness she found herself alone with Etna. With a frantic gesture the suffering woman put lher aside, speaking rapidly and incoherently. "Oh! no; not you, Etna. I cannot bear now to look upon the face that expresses only contempt and detestation for one whose weakness is her greatest error. You know     350        ETNA VANDEMR. full well all, all the crime; but you do not know halfthe atonement through this lifeless hope of years of sorrow. Oh! poor Allan! his last bitter words are fulfilled to the uttermost. He said these days and this vain love would be mine. But, answer me,-only this, if there is pity or mercy in your soul,-is he dead too? I can bear to hear that word now, since you do not scorn me as you once did. Tell me; will you not? Oh! in mercy relieve this suspense!" Her tones from wild vehemence Were changed to sad wailings of appeal. Etna in her own wayward pride had suffered deeply, but she had scarcely dreamed of misery so abject as that which was interwoven in expression with every fibre of heart, every lineament of features. Her soul was bowed with its weight. She took the fair jewelled hand in hers, and answered her. Tears fell-not wholly unpleasurable, for she saw her brother's happiness through the gathered mist; if he should live, now she was well aware that Mabel's heart was all his own. Perhaps, too, she was influenced by other considerations. Mabel was Howard's cousin,--like in form and feature to his dead mother. Be it congenial or not, it was yet a tie of blood. She spoke tremulously, though decidedly. c No, he is not dead, but may be soon. We, you and T, will go to him to-morrow with uncle. You love him, Mabel, and he loves you. His life has been joyless since separated from you; his affection for you was of no ordi- nary type; you alone can make him happy. Arouse your- self, and you shall tell him all this if he yet lives. The knowledge of your devotion may yet restore him. And if he dies "-- "And if he dies," answered Mabel, in the strength and power of her new-born joy, " then will I claim a wife's privilege to weep for him." She crushed her coral lips on Etna's hand as it held her own in a fond clasp. A few days later, the young ladies, accompanied by Mr. Hastings and George Ashby, took rooms at the hotel in which Lieutenant Hastings was lying ill at Huntsville.   - -TNA VANDEMR.      351 Etna bent tearfully and tenderly to kiss the fevered brow. ; Harry, dear brother! I have brought Mabel to visit you; she is here." Hie said brokiely a4d sadly, ,She surely did not wish to come. How could she forego her gayeties to visit any one ill and suffering? She does not love me, you know." Caprice, pride, were both in that instant shivered within her, and were poured forth in a torrent of words. She told him of her long love and vain hopes, of the blank earh was to her without him. The hours of the long atonement were all recounted; and as she spoke, the shadow went from his face with the weakness and suffer- ing. Rekindled hope shone upon it. Each word that he uttered now was tremulous with the weight of uprisen joy. "And you would marry me, Mabel, so changed by suffer- ing and privation from what you knew me,--without mili- ta'y distinction? you would bind your life, beautiful as you are, to a poor soldier, and with the haunting fear be- fore you that your only heritage would be a widow's weeds, and the untimely blight of those fair bright roses on your soft cheeiks? Would you, my own darling?" Yes! yes! I will do all this willingly;" and she caught his thin hands, and the glow upon her beautiful cheeks, as she pressed kisses upon them, told of the joy it would be, thus, ever thus with him. Then came a minister of God, by request, to that meagre chamber, and spoke the words that made them one. He felt himself powerful and strong, a man and a soldier once - more, as held the hand of the fair young bride. There was no despairing now; he felt that he should live. Etna remembered with a pang how she had refused Howard's last petition. She might never see him again. Her love was of an order more durable, perhaps, but less self-sacrificing than Mabel's, and she felt humiliated in the knowladge of this.     352       ETNA VANDEMR. lie succeeded in obtaining sick leave for a fortnight, and convalesced so rapidly as to be able to endure the removal home in a few days after their arrival, where the marriage was publicly celebrated. It was a nine-days' wonder in their circle why they had only just then decided to marry. Some said that Mabel had once refused him, and attributed her repentance, and fond acceptance of a suit long sus- pended, to the fact of his being a "military man," and having assumed the onerous responsibility of bearing his portion of the national burden. There was one who might have elucidated the mystic wonderment; but Etna kept her own counsel. There were no recriminations, notwithstand- ing all the past. By Allan Stewart's grave they renewed their vows, and were happy, very happy,-more so, perhaps, for the error and the suffering. He returned to camp to resign his commission as lieutenant and assume the position of surgeon tendered him by another regiment. He filled the vacancy ably and well, obtained for him through the influence of Dr. Reynolds, who was delighted at the turn "affairs of heart " had taken in this region, and also with Etna's agency in the matter. He left his young wife, well aware how true in heart she would be to him, though with the world she smiled and sang as when none knew her love. !-   CHAPTER XXIII. THE TRIBUTE OF FLOWERS--WILLET EDSON-ETNA EXERTS HER INFLUENCE FOR HER COUSIN S BENEFIT--THE WANDEERE'S RETURN-THE MSTS ARE DISPERSED. A FEW mornings subsequent to her return, Etna went, as was her daily custom, to the hospital. She had of late spent much time there previous to her brief visit South. Now her heart grew sick as she noted the changes wrought during those few days of absence. Many had died, others were so far recovered as to be able to return to their vari- ous posts of duty, and quite a number had been sent to a distant prison to await, through interminable months, trial or exchange. She herself carried a large basket of choice flowers, the fairest grown in the conservatories of Mrs. Hastings and Mrs. Hughes. The smile that passed like an electric current was cheering to behold. The poor wan faces were illuminated at the sight of the beautiful blossoms. It had been a long time since flowers had grown for them. She passed a man's eager hand outstretched for the cluster of rose-geranium blossoms she held. She saw that he was delirious, and in the phantasy had asked these flowers of her. The dim abode wore an aspect of cheerfulness almost akin to the brightness of her fair and beautiful flowers. On the morrow, when she returned, she bore with her a pot of blossoming geranium, and placed it on a chair be- side the young man who had evinced such a preference for 353     354        ETNA VANDEMR. this species upon the day preceding. He opened his eyes with a faint gleam of animation, and spoke to her. "I have been dreaming of your flowers; Jennie wore them in her rich brown hair the last evening." His voice was weak, and she bent her head as he told her of his Northern home and his young love, and their sorrow in parting, though they knew not then it would be forever. "They are waiting for me now,-oh, so wearily! I shall never go there to my childhood's home,-to Jennie." "But you may meet," remarked Etna, ", where no casu- alties of time or change will ever divide your joint hearts, made one through God's mercy and love." She ceased speaking, for she knew that he was praying; that his prayer was the burden of her words. She broke a fair cluster from the prolific slip, and placed them in his hand. When early in the afternoon she again returned he was dead, and her flowers were tightly held in his rigid grasp. With real sorrow in her heart, she penned the missive from the address he had given her, and sent the white-winged messenger of sorrow on its mission to the far-off home, where tall pines sang the long day away to the music of breezes from Lake Champlain. Etna always thought of the brown-haired young love, and her desolate heart, when scattering the flowers that Willet Edson loved upon his grave. I am growing as exclusive as a Hottentot, thought she, as she gathered up the cards of invitation, more numerous than usual within the past week. Visiting-cards, and cards of invitation to drive, to fish, to join pic-nic parties, all were neglected, owing to the engrossing interests which absorbed and monopolized her time and attention. The sum transmitted annually by her grandmother since her residence with her aunt had accumulated largely by judicious investments managed by her uncle; the interestK was placed at her disposal. She had appropriated small amounts in providing for the support of hundreds of volun-   ETNA VANDEIIR.         355 teers' families, and those already widowed and orphaned, who were destitute of the most meagre supply of the neces- sities of life. She very soon experienced the happiest re- sults from the dispensation of her charities. Mrs. Reynolds, her chaperone and wiseacre, had assisted and aided her materially in her philanthropic schemes. She had offered her own sewing-girl to assist her in preparing apparel for some very destitute children, proteges of Etna's. She had herself visited the sewing meetings, attending as best she could to the requisitions in her aunt's peculiar department, --Mrs. Hastings having been summoned to Wilton by Mrs. Vandemir, to visit her mother, who was gradually- failing. But, best of all, Etna had succeeded in interest- ing her cousin in her occupations, and had obtained a promise that when, at the instance of her aunt, she should go to Wilton, she, Mrs. Hughes, would take her place. She felt that Mellie would be far happier. There is a divinity in labor : no dark ghost of ennui creeps in through busy hours; no repining or vain longings detract from our joy when we feel a sweet consciousness of having lightened proportionately the burden of some fellow traveller on the weary journey of earth. Who will dare assert themselves purposeless, when the world is so filled with suffering that we perchance may measurably relieve? The field in which we too may labor is not circumscribed; it is wide as/the universe, and we -know its length and breadth. It is out- spread in God's sunlight, and the path and point of action may be easily decided upon. The world may be weary, the daily task arduous; but some day there will be a reck- oning of the toils,.and then we will behold from our way- side seed grown a bounteous harvest. And even here, as purpose grows stronger, labor grows lighter, and the fru- ition seems proportionately nearer. In her new duties, the days of Howard's absence were not so long as Etna feared they would be. She was almost sorry when summoned to Wilton. Making over her proprietorship as housekeeper during her aunt's absence  356        ETNA VANDEMR., to Aunt Martha, who was efficient and trustworthy as could be, and with many injunctions to Julia and Peter, and a promise from Mellio to superintend in person her father's comfort, she departed. The days of her journey dragged wearily, and on the evening of the second, Etna arrived at Lewisburg. She found the carriage awaiting her, and when the summer sunset shadows lengthened, and sapphire gleams fell slantingly, weaving opal crescents about the white turrets of Wilton, she felt a glow of the old childish delight which she ever experienced in visiting these scenes, unchanged through the long years. Summer fountains sang their tender melodies of old, as the twilight came gently down with showers of pearly dews. She ran lightly up the marble steps, forgetful of the death shadow brooding there. The old family servant, weeping, showed her to her grandmother's apartment. A fearful change had passed over those featuresaince she saw them last: the gloaming of the dim realm was upon them; and she saw with pain how nearly the journey of many years was ended. It was the fitting termination of an existence, beautiful, con- sistent and blameless, consecrated to God's service, tri- umphant in the strength and hope of the faith that had been her comfort and her staff of life. She held out her shrunken hand to Etna, with a bright smile, the herald of her heritage, illumining the failing tenement as moon- beams irradiate a grave. "My child, my best beloved, my Harry's child,-dearer than all the world beside,-I am going from you. The time is drawing near; and oh! .I should be so happy could I but look for one brief moment upon his face once more." Etna hid her face and wept. Bitterly she repented that capricious avoidance of Mrs. Vandemir which had kept her from her aged friend's side during those last days. The one prayer of those long years was answered, even in the last hour. For when the July moon was high and white in the heavens outstretched and measureless,   ETNA VANDEMR.        357  shining too upon widespread miles of land and sea over which he had wandered, he came,--an old man bowed low, with silver hair and the shadow of prodigal years upon the high brow of the youth the mother knew,-he came back to Wilton. There was no change in aught save himself, as, a stranger amid the home scenes, he walked the beautiful paths once more. Ah, yes! when he approached the octagonal wing where the library was, and where he had always remembered the light shining through the mazy years between, and his father sitting, there was only darkness now, save where the moonbeams with their silver feet crept through the diamond-shaped panes upon the still void. He knew not that the old man was sleeping in the churchyard two years agone. He gained admittance at the rear of the house, and proceeded immediately to his mother's chamber. The dpor stood ajar, and, without waiting to be announced, he stood upon the threshhold. With a wild cry of joy, the stifled voice of years, he threw himself at her feet. With a gush of murmured thanks she sighed her life away. He knew nothing else: this burning truth with pen of fire was traced upon his brain. He saw not his sister, the little infant whom he had left, or the other form kneeling with muffled heart-beats in the dim light of the death chamber; nor did he see the anxious gaze that Etna bent upon him. With a face frozen to stone with remorse and sorrow, he gently laid her down upon the pillow, from which, living, breathing, she had risen but one hour previous; and witL- out addressing a word to any one he went to his own apartment, remembering the ways of his youth as though it were but yesterday they were cast aside. Etna had not slept for three days and nights, and, with one last look at the dear face,-beautiful now, for there was no old age and death in the new life upon which she had entered,--she retired to her chamber to sleep. All through the long night she heard his steady tread, as she had lis- tened to Howard's on the evening previous to their parting  358        ETNA VANDEM.  by the ocean side. The moon was wasted, but the stars shone bright as then; and, from her unresting reverie in the grey morning light, she rose and went to him. Enwrapped in the vestments of a pompous, gloomy isola- tion, he sat there in the gloaming of the morn, yet she could distinctly trace the difference between the Maytinme face of the youth and the November face of the old man, as it rested against the velvet lining of his chair so wearily. S  a saw with joy that his face was not a sensual one, only wtiry and sorrow-worn, wearing an expression such as incontinence can never wear. She stooped and kissed his brow, all seamed and furrowed as it was, and the gleam that lighted his face was almost like unto that which he had worn in his youth. She spoke very gently and softly. "I am Etna, grandfather; may I be first to welcome you back to Wilton?" He put his arm around her lithe form and drew her to his heart, the little girl whom he had met at the Villa Borghcse during an Italian summer. "And you are that child? You are a woman now, and I, vigorous and hale then, am an old man, failing fast. And, darling! you are all that is left to the wielbcss, homeless wanderer through many years." Etna's tears flowed fast as she listened to his accents of hopeless despair. And she sat upon his knee again, the bright-faced, merry child of the beautcous sunny clime to him; and he turned him back to his youth, as she gently smoothed the silver hair, still curled and clustering as the brown hair surrounding the youthful face in the portrait that smiled on them from the mantel. He told her of his love for Ellen Lynton; her father's expressed opposition to their union; his subsequent sojourn in New York; her visit to her aunt, Mrs. Emington; their informal marriage at her house, in presence of her cousin Francis Lynton, who was devotedly attached to the ser- vice of each; of the misapprehension of all concerning the supposed union of Ellen with Francis; the motives I   ETNA VAIDEMR.        359 influencing her to resign her child. There was not the faintest shadow of censure in his tones; they told only of the long sorrowing. He grew more vehement in speaking of his crime,--the crime that had driven him in exile from the country and the wife that he loved. He told her like- wise of his former return, and the agony entailed by the lknowledge of her marriage; his subsequent sojourn in savage wilds; of his love for his child's child, and the purpose that had brought him home once more. The story X was perfect in detail, not one inharmot'ous fragment or disconnected link. Her interest was breathless. There was something of the old impetuosity in the tones, and the old gleam came back to the dark eyes, as he added. "The act for which I have been stigmatized and branded would in these days of battle be estimated as nothing, comparatively. It was net a defensive, yet I claim it was a just blow. Any one who will close the foul lips of a vile detractor of woman deserves well of the state. I have never repented the act, even while bitterly deploring the consequences entailed thereby. Were it to-morrow, in- stead of years bygone, I should do as I did then, I should Mb envied the blow. My only regret is, my bonnie fair child, that you bear a name so hated, and that all I have loved, save those of my own name, should have borne this one, and that you and your sweet mother must needs have suffered for my hasty deed.'" "Grandfather," answered Etna, kissing him, "I shall soon rid myself of that cognomen, since it is so distasteful to you. But permit me to know what I shall ask you. I have so longed for the truth, even though the knowledge be more crushing than suspicion. My mother's vague allusions I have never comprehended, and my slight acquaintance with the facts renders the mysticism more complete. Her words were strange. I may have oftentimes over-estimated them and misconstrued their significance; and this may have rendered me unjust and cruel, by exciting the morbid fears of a false, unnatural pride. Can you explain it all?"   360        ETNA VANDEMR. She took the faded letter from her pocket, and read it over slowly to him in the gray morning light, as she sat reading it on the day when she and Howard had parted first. She repeated the passage that mystified and per- plexed her so much. "My child, when the heart that dictates to you its last appeal is dust, and the hand that penned it, you will per- chance peruse this. Then know, my child, that this is my last injunction, and that only for your sake would I have lived yet a little longer. There is a dark tale of mystery and wrong, of error and bloodshed,-not positively perti- nent, yet bearing upon your destiny. My grave is not the only one that will be unflowered; your father is not the only wayward wanderer, bowing a heart that loved him into the dust. Of all this you will one day learn, and then you will realize that my request was not useless. It is my wish, Etna, that you do not form a matrimonial alliance, with a dark cloud and shadow of sin and crime hanging over you. I will add from my own convictions that marriage is not the happiest condition. When all of hope and joy are merged and embodied in a vision fair as a creature of dreams, yet proving intensely mortal at last, to one so ardent as yourself there is always more or less disappointment. One's ideal is never real. And in this instance there would unquestionably follow more or less of heart-burnings and humiliations when comes the knowledge of facts pertaining to the youthful errors of those from whom flowed your life and mine. I myself do not know all. I might have done so had I possessed courage to ask. Remember, my child, this may be con- sidered in the light of a request, not a command. Should you feel impelled, with the knowledge of all, to form such an alliance, you have your mother's last blessing." She ceased. He looked sore grieved and sorrowed, then answered.   ETNA VANDEMR.        361 ", Poor child! her bitter lessons of life were not those calculated to teach her trust. I will not say she was un- just; this you may decide for yourself, now that I have told you the story. I will submit evidence that will doubtless prove conclusive of her womanly virtue and truth. I should not else have loved her through these long years. The error so fruitful of misery to both was one old as time,-that for which Adam -lost Paradise,- disobedience."  He took from his vest pocket a small scrip, more soiled and faded than her dead mother's letter, and gave it to her. She pressed her lips to the senseless thing with a gush of grateful tears. All unworthy suspicion and dark obscure mists of doubt rolled from her mind as the glorious sunlight of this one truth burst upon her. It was the minister's certificate, legally attested, of the strange marriage ceremony, performdd so many years ago. Wilton and its beautiful shades were all radiant in the morning sunlight as they two went and stood beside the dead. His heart stood still as he recognized the form kneeling there. There were many silver threads in the jetty hair, and the face so fair to him in memory had its shadows, yet the eyes were unchanged. Each was conscious of a clasp as upon the remembered night of their former meeting; yet they were wordless, for the mother's face, white and cold and still in its heavenly smile, lay between.     CHlAPTER XXIV. ETNA SOJOURNING AT WILTON-HOWARD'S REQUEST--SIR. EMER- SONDS VISIT--MARRIAGE OF ETNA AND HOWARD--THE BANNER-- THE YOUNG WIFE'S HOPE, AND THE HUSBAND'S DEPARTURE- THE END. THE first Augrust moon sat high in the west. Its mel- low radiant gleams lay shimmering, silvering, dreaming in fantastic forms upon the beautiful shades of Wilton. Etna sat alone upon the verandah musing.  The glow from within through th stained windows was painting its gor- geous hues upon the grass-plat at her feet, and tinting the snowy dress she wore. She watched the gradually paling cycle until it was quite faded out, and still she sat tracing abstractedly the shadows cast by the frail stars. The post had brought her many letters, but she had read but one. It was from Howard, written "1 In camp near Athens," stating that the siege was terminated. Corinth had been evacuated some time previous, and his regiment, transferred to another brigade in General B--'s division, was ordered to Virginia. His strides of advancement had been rapid. He was promoted to a colonelcy. His request was un- expected, though she was fain to grant it. He had pur- chased and read her book, he told her,-knew then first of all her long love, his own through the changes and the years.  She had ever been sparing of her admissions, but now he doubted not, nor questioned. 362   ETNA VANDEMR.        363 She had no misgivings that she was so soon to yield her liberty. She had spoken to her grandfather, who was now her only companion at Wilton, beside the servants; and now she sat thinking of the time when she would be 1Howard's wife, and he far away, fighting perhaps upon the broad battle-field of states. Mrs. Vandemir had returned to New York. In vain had Harry Elwood requested that she would remain with . him in his house; that the bond so strangely severed in youth should be reunited. She was firm in her refusal, though she answered him kindly. ,c No, dear; it is better not. You have Etna; she will remain with you, and you do not need me. I will visit you very often, but cannot remain altogether. Those bit- ter memories will ever stand a great barrier between us. The gulf of time and and change has grown wide,-very wide and dark. We dare not turn our eyes backward over it. And as for the future, it must be very brief now. Should sickness or sorrow come, then I will be by your side; the short interval to the tomb we must tread as we have walked the long vista of the years-alone! Thus may our atonement be complete." Yes; it is better, thought Etna. I will remain at Wile ton, as Howard's wife, and it shall be my joy to brighten the remnant of a life so long darkened by the errors of his youth--my dear grandfather! Mr. Emerson came to Wilton on the. following day. His wife was quite well, he said, but with the little babe of a few months, they could not think of such an arduous undertaking as a journey even to Wilton at such a period of its existence; and he sat down with a father's pride to tell her of the little stranger whom she had never geen, yet of whom she had heard in the letters of each. She recog- nized the power of this new hope and new joy to weave ties that never existed before. "And what is the name of this infant prodigy? You have omitted to tell me in your letters."     364       ETNA VANDEJIIR Shadows and sunbeams were intermingled upon his yet handsome face as he answered.-"Grace Emerson." Both were silent. Etna pressed his hand between her small palms. This tribute to the dear dead was very precious to her. Then she told him of her intended marriage, and he promised to remain. "And now," said he, as he led her up the terrace over the pebbled walks, by the murmuring fountains, into the house, "' come, sing for me that beautiful pathetic air from 'The Daughter of Saint Mark,' 'We may be happy yet.' " A few intimate friends had come from Louisville to attend the marriage of Etna and Howard Lorraine, in company with the family of Mr. Hastings, including Mr. and Mrs. Hughes, and Mrs. Hastings, junior. Harry had returned to his post of duty, and Mabel was serenely happy now, notwithstanding past errors and past suffering. Mr. and Mrs. Reynolds were of the party, also Alice Gladstone and George Ashby, who, notwithstanding the predilections of the latter, were engaged lovers now. In seeking to lessen disappointment he had found happiness.  Etna had never appeared more lovely. The old hauteur had gone from her manner with the gloom from her face. Love is a wonderful transformer, and, blended with a blissful happiness, it is capable of imparting magic to every word and act. Col. Lorraine had come six hours in ad- vance of his regiment, arriving at noon, as he intended to leave at six o'clock. The ceremony was performed. The oaken doors dividing the dining-room from the audience-hall, from which the broad staircase ascended, were thrown open, disclosing to view the sumptuous collation. But it was not this which charmed -nd astonished the beholders. A magnificent banner was here, so arranged as to reveal the gilded in- scription: eo tlhoe lwho wmr frset to ralln at 1liiloD.   ETNA VANDEMR.      \  365 In behalf of the regiment, Col. Lorraine essayed to speak. It was a proud hour to him in every sense. Tears choked his utterance: the homage to the brave fellows under his command was very grateful to his noble heart. Mr. Emerson whispered a few words to the bride. "Etna, heretofore you have claimed exemption from partizanship, freedom from sectional influence and preju- dice. Prove it now. Henceforth your husband's interests are yours." "Grandfather's gift to you, Howard." And she crossed the room, and stood once more by her husband's side, be- neath its shining silken folds,-the flag that he loved, that he had sworn to cherish, protect and defend. Then both stood hand in hand, mind in mind, and heart in heart, before the old man, who, trembling and happy, gave them his blessing. The repast completed, an hour of social enjoyment ensued, and Etna took her place by her husband's side in the carriage,'to accompany him to the depot. With a thrill of blissful pride, she felt that he was hers alone,- hers through the time and changes to come, "Hers to pray for and remember." She stood in the sunset glory by his side,-his own, his wife. Holding her'little hands in his own, he kissed not now the cold brow as be had done at their parting, but her unresisting lips. All exultant and yet tremulous were the words he spoke, and the tones were like sweetest music to the heart that loved him so. "Etna, my owii darling! my bride! The world, faith- less and cold and hollow as it once seemed, is so no longer;-nay, it is filled with glorious light and beauty; and as I look forward into the future, I can behold no shadow of earthly parting. I do not even hear the voice of this great national tempest that is bearing me away from you. Yet who knows what a day may bring forth? And if the worst comes, and I should fall----     366        ETNA VANDEMR. His voice faltered,-the strong man who had bravely, almost recklessly, endured all things before, weakly shrunk and trembled now lest one thread of the golden tissue that bound them should be severed even in fancy. Etna was firmer. She recalled the words, a favorite text of hers, so sublime in their exultant faith, "Thy rod and thy staff shall comfort me." They were spoken by one who knew his hope, and knew in whom he had trusted. A halo came upon her face as she repeated them. The vision of his young wife as he saw her then came to him many times, brightening hours of duty and watching soli- tudes. She raised her eyes to heaven. His own fell, and his head bowed low in reverence. Truly those words were all-sufficient to make the young husband's arm steady and unfaltering. "You must not think of these things,-of death or separation. Remember that a Higher Power holds the threads of our destiny. You can only be brave as you have been, and patient and hopeful, dear; and if the worst should come," continued she, "then I'll lay the hand you love in yours On the shores of the Hereafter.'" THE END.     
         
      
   
