
    ----CITATION----
        Fleming, May Agnes, (1840-1880). Erminie, or, The Gipsy's Vow .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6441
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Erminie, or, The gipsy's vow
             
                ERMNIE;   oR,     6s4psgg', Om.  A TALE OF LOVE AIND VENGEANCE.     BY COUSIN MAY CARLETON i   New York: P . A. BRADY, PUBLISHER. 24 ANN STREET.       ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1862, Br CAULDWELL, SOUTHWORTH Jr WHTNIM,   I In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District ojw i/ S Yrk.  ERMNIE'   CHAPTER I. NIGHT A N    8 TO K. "The night grows wondrous dark: deep-swelling gusts And sultry stillness ttke the rule by turn, While o'er our heads th6 black and heavy olouds Roll slowly on. This surely bodes a storm." -BAILI. Overhead, the storm-clouds were scudding wildly across the sky until all above was one dense pall of impenet able gloom. A chill, pen- etrating rain was fal ing, and the wind came sweeping in long, fitful gusts-piercingly cold; for it was a niglit in harch. It was the north r ad to London. A thick, yellow fog, that had b en rising all day from the bosom of the Thames, wrapped the great city in a blackness that might almost be felt; and its innumerable lights wre -srouded in the deep gloom. Yet the solitary figure, flitting through the pelting rain and bleak wind, strained her eyes as she fled along, as though, despite the more than Egyptian darkness, she would force, by her fierce, steady glare, the obscure lights of the city to show themselves. The night lingered and lingered, the gloom deepened and deepened, the rain plashed dismal- ly; the wind blew in moaning, lamentable gusts, penetrating through the thick mantle she held closely around her. And still the woman fled on,\stopping neither for wind, nor rain, nor storm--unheeding, unfeeling them all-keeping her fierce, devouring faze fixed with a look that might have pierced ]he very heavens, on the still far-distant city. There was no one on the road but herself. The lateness of the ho r-for it was almost mid- night--and the incre ing storm, kept pedes- trians'within doors that cheerless March night. Now and then she wo ld pass cottages in which lights were still glari g, but most of the houses were wrapped in silence and darkness. And still on, through night, and storm, and gloom, fled the wanderer, with the pitiless rain beating in her facea-tie chill blasts fluttering   her thin worn garments' and long, wild, black hair. Still on, pausing not, resting not, never removing her steadfast gaze from the distant city-like a lost soul hurrying to its doom. Suddenly, above the wailing of the wind and plashing of the rain, arose the thunder of hose' hoofs and the crash of approaching carriage- wheels. Rapidly they came on, and the woman paused for a moment and leaned against a eot* tage porch, as if waiting until it should pass. A bright light was still burning in the win- dow, and it fell on the lonely wayfarer as she stood, breathing hard and waiting, with burn- ing, feverish impatience, for the carriage to pass. It displayed the form of a woman of forty, or thereabout, with a tall, towering, com- manding figure, gaunt and bony. Her coom. plexion was dark; its naturally swarthy hue' hay ing been tanned by sun and. wind to a dark; brown. The features were strong, stern, and prominent, yet you could see at a glance that the face had once been a handsome one. Now, however-thin, haggard, and fleshless, with the high, prominent cheek-bones; the gloomy, over. hanging brows; the stern, set, unyielding mouth; the rigid, corrugated brow ; the fierce, devour. ing, maniac, black eyes-it lookesdpositively hideous. Such eyes --such burning, blasing orbs of fire, never were seen in human head, be forel They glowed like two live coals in a bleached skui. There was utter misery, there was despair unspeakable, mingled with fiero determination, in those' lurid, flaming eyes. And that dark, stern, terrific face was stamped with the unmistakable impress of a despisedid,. graded race. Thewoman was a gipsy. It need. ed not her peculiar dress, the:ofiume of her tribe, to tell this, though that'was significant enough. Her thick, coarse, 'jet blaek hair, streaked with threads of gray, a pusheid 1i patiently off bei fee; aud her only hesd over- in was a     hof rmson and bMak silk, knotted under her chin. A cloak, of eoa,     red-woolen stuff, covered her shoulders, and a dress of the same materials, but in color blue, reached hardly to her ankles. The brilliant head-dress, and unique, fiery costume, suited well the dark, fierce, passionate face of the wear- er. For an instant she paused, as if to let the car- riage pass; then, as if even the delay of an in- stant was maddening, she started wildly up, and keeping her hungry, devouring gaze, fixed on the vision of the still unseen city, she sped on more ra-:dly than before. CHAPTEfR II. MR. TOOSYEGS. s He bears him like a portly gentleman; And, to say truth, Vernon brags of him To be a virtuous and well-governed youth." -SHAKBSPE,. The vehicle that the gipsy had heard ap- proaching Was a light wagon drawn by two swift horses. It had two seats capable of hold- ing four persons, though the front seat alone was now ocoulied. The first of these (for'his age claims the pre- cedence) was a short, stout, burly, thick-set, lit- tle man, buttoned up in a huge great-coat, suf- fering under a severe eruption of capes and pockets. An immense fur cap, that, by its ante- diluvian looks, might have been worn by Noah's grandfather, adorned his head, and was pulled so far down on his faceithat nothing was visible but a round, respectable-looking bottle-nose, and a pair of small, twinkling, gray eyes. This in- dividual, who was also the driver, rejoiced in the cognomen of Mr. Bill Harkins, and made it his business to take belated wayfarers to Lon- don (either by land or water), when arriving top late for,the regular conveyances. On the pres- ent occasion his sole freight consisted of a young gentleman with a brilliant-hued carpet-bag, glowing with straw-colored roses and dark-blue flies, rising from a background resembling London smoke. The young gentleman'was a very re a:rkable young gentleman indeed. He was exceedingly tall and thin,'with legs like a couple of pipe-stems, and a neck so long and slender 'that reminded, you of a ganler's, and made ysu tremble fr the safety of the bhead balanced on such a frail support. His hair and compleiion were both of that indefinite color known to the initiated as "whity brown "-the latter being profusely sprinkled with large, yel- low freelyles, and the former as straight and sleek as bear' grease could make it. For the rest, lie was characterized by nothing in particular, but for being the possessor-of a pair of large, pale, blue eyes, not remarkable for either brilliancy of expression, and for wearing the meekest pos- sible expression of countenance. He might have been eighteen years old, as far as years went; but his worldly wisdom was by no means equal to his years.   ' "By jingo! that 'ere was a blast!" said Mr. , Harkins, bending his head as a gale swept shrieking by. "Yes, it does blow, but I don't mind it-I'm very much obliged to you," said the pale young man, with the white hair and 'freckles, holding his carpet-bag in his arms, as if it were a baby. "Who said you did?" growled Bill Harkins. "You'll be safe in Lunnon in half an 'our, while I'll be a drivin' back through this 'ere win' and rain, getting wetted ,right through. If you don't mind it, I does, Mr. Toosypegs." "Mr. Harkins," said Mr. Toosypegs, humbly, "I'm very Sorry to put you to so much trouble, I'm sure, but if two extra crowns-" "Mr. Toosypegs," interrupted Mr. Haskins, with a sudden burst of feeling, "give us yer hand; yer a trump. It's easy to be perceived them as is gentlemen from them as isn't. You're one o' the right sort; oughter be a lord, by jingo ' Get up, hold lazybones," said Mr. Harkins, touching the near-wheelerdaintily with his whip. "Mr. Harkins, it's very gobd of you to say so, and I'm very much obliged to you, I'm sure," 'said 'Mr. Toosypegs, gratefully; " but, at the same time, if you'll please to recollect I'm an American, and consequently couldn't be a lord.' There aren't any lords over in America, Mr; Harkins; though if there was, I dare say I would be one. It's real kind of you to wish it, though, and I'm much obliged to you," added Mr. Toosypegs, with emotion. "Hamerica must be a hod sorter place," said Mr. Harkins, reflectively. I've heern tell that your king-" "He isn't a king, Mr. Harkins; he's only the President," broke in Mr. Toosypegs, with en- ergy. "Well, President then," said Mr.' Harkins, adopting the amendment with a look of disgust. "I've heern they call him 'mister,' jest like hany bother man." "So theykdo ; and he glories in the triumph- ant title-a title which, as an American citizen's, is a prouder one than that of king or kaiser!" said Mr. Toosypegs, enthusiastically, while he repeated the sentence he had read out of a late novel: '.' It is a title for which emperors might lay down their sceptres-for which po- tentates might doff the royal purple-for which the great ones of the earth might'-a-might." Mr. Toosypegs paused, and knit his brows, hav- ing evidently lost his' cue. "I ick the-bicketl" suggested Mr. Harkins, coming to his aid. "Mr. Harkins, I'm very much obliged to you; but that wasn't exactly the word," said Mr. Toosypegs, politely. "I Might'-oh!, yes! --'.might resign name and fame, and dwell un- der the shadow--of the, American earle, whose glorious wings extend to the four quarters of the earth, and before whose soul-piercing eye   the nations of the. world must blush forever- more!'"        And Mr. Toosypegs, earried away by national enthusiasl, gave his arm such a flourish that it came in contact with the head of Mr. Harkins, and set more stars dancing before his eyes than there would have been had the night been ever so fine.  The outraged Mr. Harkins indignantly sprang round, and collared Mr. Foosypegs, whose com- plexion had turned frori 'whity-brown to gray, with terror, and Whose' teeth chattered with mingled shame and fear. "You himpertanent wagabond!" shouted Mr. Harkins, " to go for to strike a hunnofending man like that Blessed! if I hain't a good mind to chuck yer 'ead fust hout the waggin."  "Mr. Har--Har--Harkins," stammered the half-strangled advocate of the "American eagle; "I didn't mean to do it, I'm very much obliged to you! I do assure you, Mr. ]farkins, I hadn't the faintest idea of hitting you; and if mon- ey-"     " m "How much?" demanded Mr. Harkins fierce- ly, looking bayonets at his trembling victim. "Mr. Harkins, if five or even ten dollars-" "Which is how many pounds?" demanded the somewhat mollified Mr. Harkins.' "Two pound sterling " said Mr. Toosypegs, in a trembling falsetto; " and I do assure you, Mr. Harkins, I hadn't the faintest idea of hitting you that time. If two poundc-" ",Done!" cried Mr. ;Hr'kins. "Never say it ag'in. I ain't a man to bear spite at no one- which is a Christian maxim, Mr. Toosypegs. A clip side the head's neither here nor there. Same time, I'll take them two-pound flimsies now, if's all the same to you!" "Certainly- certainly, Mr. Harkins," said' Mr. Toosypegs, drawing out a purse well filled with gold and opening it nervously. "Three- five-ten dollars, and two for the drive's twelve; and one to buy sugar-plums for your infant family--if you've got such a thing about you- is thirteen. Here's thirteen dollars, Mr. Har- kins. I'm very much obliged 'to you." "Same. to you, Mr. 'toosypegs," said Mr. Harkins, pocketing the money with a broad grin. "May you ne'er want a f'ien', nor a bottle to give him,' as the poce says." "Mr. Harkins, I'n obliked to you," said Mr. Toosypegs, grasping his hand; which Mr. Har- kins resigned; with aigrunt. "You have a soul, Mr. Harkins. I know it-I feel it. Everybody mightn't find it out;i but I nan-I perceived it from the first."       / Mr. lHrkins heard this startling fact with the greatest indifference, merely saying "Humphl" "And now, how far do you suppose we -re from the ciiy, Mr. Harkins?" said Mr. Toosy - pegs, in his most insinuating tone. "'Bout a mile or so." I "Could you recommend any hotel to me, Mr.   Harkins. I'm a stranger in the city, you know, and should feel grateful if you would," said Mr. IToosypegs, humbly. "Why, yes, I can," said Mr. Harkins, bright- ening suddenly up. "There's the 'Blue Pig,' one of the finest 'otels in Lunnon, with the best o' 'commodations for man and beast. You've heern o' the ' Blue Pig' over there in Hamerica, hain't you?" Mr. Toosypegs wasn't sure. It was very like- ly he had; but, owing to his bad memory, he had forgotten. "Well, anyhow, you won't find many 'otels to beat that 'ere. Best o' 'commodation-but I told you that hafore." "Where is it located?" asked Mr. Toosypegs. "St. Giles's. You know where that is, in course--heverybody does. The nicest 'otel in Lutnon-best o' 'commodations. But I told you that bhafore. My hold frien' Bruisin Bull keeps it. You'll like it, I know," "Yes, Mr. Harkins, I dare say I will. I'm very much obliged to you," said Mr. Toosy- pegs, in a somewhat dubious tone. "That 'ere man's the greatest cove a goin'," said Mr. Harkins, getting enthusiastic. "Been married ten times 'if he's been married once. One wife died; one left his bread-board, and run hoff with a hofficer dragoon; one was lagged for stealin' wipes, an' he's got three livin' at this present writin'. Great fellar is Bob.'" "Ihaven't the slightest doubt of it, Mr. Har- kins," said the proprietor of the freckles, po- likely ; "and I anticipate a great deal of pleasure in making the acquaintance of your friends, Mr. and Mrs. Bob. But, good gracious 'Mr. Har- kins, just look there -if that ain't a woman hurrying on there after," said Mr. Toosypegs, pointing, in intense surprise, to the form of the gipsy, as she darted swiftly away from the cot- tage. "Well, what o' that? Some tramper a goin' to Lunnon," said Mr. Harkins, gruffly. "But, Mr. Harkins, a woman out in such a storm at this hour of the night, Why, it ain't right," said Mr. Toosypegs, getting excited. Mr. Harkins picked up his hat, turned down the collar of his coat, faced abruptly round, and looked Mr. Toosypegs straight in the eyes. "Do call to her to get in, Mr. Harkins. There's plenty of room for her on thie back seat," said Mr. Toosypegs, unheeding Mr. Har- kins' astounded look in his philanthropy. "A woman traveling on foot in such a storm! Why, it ain't right " repeated Mr. Toosypege, getting still more excited. "Mr. Toosypegs, Hamericans don't never be a little hout their mind, do they?" said Mr. Harkins, blandly. "Not often, Mr. Harkins, I'm very much obliged to you," said Mr. Toosypegs, with his customary politeness. "Because if they did, you know," said Mr. /     * rkin, in the same bland'tone, "I should say y u wasn't quite right yourself, you know 1" Good gracious I Mr. Harkins, what do you mean?" exclaimed Mr. Toosypegs, in a tone of mild remonstrance. "You don't think I'm crazy, do you?" "Mr. Toosypegs, I don't like to be persosal; Bo I'll onlsay ay i's my private opinion you're a brick I' said Mr. Harkits, mildly. "Perhaps, though, it's the hair of Hingland' wot doesn't agree with you. I thought you was wery sensi- ble a little w'ile ago, when you gin me them two poun'." I'm very much obliged to you for your good opinione Mr. Harkins," said Mr. Toosypegs, bluslhing. "And if you'll only call to that woman to get in the wagon, I'll be still more 'O!" "And have your pockets picdked!!" said Mr. Harkins, sharply. "I shan't do no sich thing." "Mr. Harkins!" said Mr. Toosypegs, warmly, "she's a woman-ain't she?"  "Well, wet if she be?" said Mr. Harkins, sul- lenly. " Why, that n' woman should be walking at this hour when men are riding; more particu- larly whlen there is a back seat with nobody in 'it. Why, it Min't right;" said Mr. Toosypegs, who seemed unable to get beyond this point. "Well, I don't care!" said Mr. Harkins, snap- pishly. "Do you s'pose, Mr. Toosypegs, I have nothing to do but buy waggins to kerry sich lumber as that 'ere. I won't do it for no one. Likely as not she's nothin' but a gipsy, or some- thing as bad. This 'ere waggin ain't goin' to be perluted with no sich trash." "Mr. Harkins," said Mr. Toosypegs, briskly, thrusting his hand into his pocket, " what will you take and bring her to London?" "Hey I 'A fool and his money'-hum! What'l1 you give?" "There's a crown." "Done!" said Mr. Harkins, closing his digits on the coin, while his little eyes snapped. "Hullo you, woman!" he shouted, raising his voice. The gipsy-who, though but a yard or so ahead, was indistinguishable in the darkness- sped on without paying the slightest attention to his call.  "Hallo there! Hallb!" again called Mr. Harkins, while Mr. Toosypegs followed with: "Stop a moment, if you please, madam." But neither for thesharp, surly order of the dlriver, nor the bland, courteous request of Mr. Toosyvpegs,' dide the woman stop. Casting a brief, fleeting glance over her shoulder, she again flit- ted on. "You confounded old witch Stop and t&ae a ride't town--will you?" yelled the polite and agr eatle Mr. Harkins, holding up a dark lan- tern ad reining in his horse by the woman's i           'd*   ' The dark, ster  face, with its fierce, black eyes and wildly-streaming hair, was turned, and i a hard, deep voice asked what he wanted. F  "A gipsy I I knew it!" muttered Mr. Har- i kins, shrinking involuntarily from her lurid glances. "Ugh! What a face?', Looks like ;the witches in the play!" Then aloud: "Get m in, ma'am, and I'll take ye to town." "Go play your jokes on, some one else," said the woman, curtly, turning away. "I ain't' a jokin'. Nice time o' night this to ) stop and play jokes-ain't it?" said Mr. Harkins, in a tone of intense irony. "This 'ere young I man, which is a Hamerican from  the New , Knighted States, has paid yer fare to Lunnon outer his hown blessed pocket. So jump in, and don't keep me waitin' here in the wet." "Is what he says true?" said the dark wom- an, turning the sharp light of her stilletto-like eyes on the freckles and pale-blue eyes of good. natured Mr. Toosypegs. "Yes, ma'am. I'm happy to say it is," said Mr. Toosypegs. , "Allow me to hand you in?" And Mr. Toosypegs got up to fulfill his offer; but Dobbin at that moment gave the wagon a malicious jerk, and dumped our patriotic Amer- ican back in his seat. Before he could recover his breath, the gipsy had declined his assistance with a wave of her hand, and had entered the wagon unassisted, and taken her seat. "I know that tramper," said Mr. Harkins, in a nervous whisper to Mr. Toosypegs. "It's the gipsy queen, Ketura, from Yetholm ; most won- derful woman that ever was, 'cept Deborah, the woman the Bible tells about, you knoW, wot/ drav the nail through the fellar's head whenshbe found him takin' a isnooze. Heard a minister take her for his tex' once, and preach all about it. Our cow's name's Deborah, too," said Mr. Harkins, absently. "And she's a gipsy queen? Lord bless us!" exclaimed Mr. Toosypegs, turning round and looking in some alarm at the fixed, stern, dark face before him-like the face of a statue in bronze. "Does she tell fortunes?"' "Yes; but you'd better not bask her to- night," said Mr. Haskins, in the same cautious whisper. "Her son's in prison, and sentenced to transportation for life' tor robbin' the plate of the Hearl De Courcy. He's goin' off with a lot of bothers airly to-morrow mornin'. Now, don't go exelaimin' that way," said Mr. Harkins; in a tone expressive lf disgust, as he gave his companion a dig in the side. 'Poor thing I poor thing!" said Mr. Toosy- pegs, in a tone of sympathy. "Why, it's too bad; it, really is, Mr. Harkins." "Sarved him right, it's my opinion," said Mr. Harkins, sententiously. "Wot business had he to go for to rob Hearl De Courcy, I want tar know  His mother,' the hol lady ahind here, went and sot him up for, a genelman, and see wot's come hof hit. She, a hold gipsy. queen, :\   goin' and sendin' her son to Heton with hall the young lordses, and baronetses, and dukeses, and makin' believe he was somethin' above the com- mon. And now see wot her fine genelman's gone and done and come to. Wonder wot she'll think of herself, w'en she sees him takin' a sea voyage for the good of his 'ealth at the 'spense o' the Government to-morrow?"    p "Poor thing! pqor thing 1" said Mr. Toosy- pegs, looking deeply sorry. "Poor hold thing, hindeed!" said Mr. Har- kins, turning up his nose contemptuously. "Sarved 'im right, I say ag'in. That 'ere son o' hern was the most stuck hup chap I ever clapt my two blessed heyes on. Hafter he left Heton, I seed 'im, one day, in the streets, hand guess who with? W'y, with nobody less than young Lord WillierS, honly son o' the Hearl De Courcy, as he has!gone and robbed. There's hingratitude for you I I didn't know 'ima then; but I 'cognized him hafterward in the court- room hat 'is trial." "How could he ifford to go to. Eton-he, a gipsy?" *said Mr. Toosypegs, in surprise. "Dtnno'! Hold jwoman sent 'im, I s'pose- 'owever she got the money. He was a fine- looking fellow, too, I must say, though rayther tawny, but 'andsome as Lord Williers himself. Hold Ketura was 'sndsome once, too; seed 'er w'en she was a reg'lar hout-and-hout beauty; though you mightn't think it now. Times changes folks, yer know," said Mr. Harkins, in a moralizing tone. "What made him steal, if his mother was so rich?" said Mr. Tosypegs. "His, mother wan't rich no more'n I be. 'Spose she made en ugh tellin' fortunes, poach- in', and 4tealin' to y fur 'im at school; hand then when he growed hup, and his cash gave out, he t9ok hand stole the hearl's plate. He denied it hall hat 'i4 trial; but, then, they hall do that. By jingo I he looked fierce enough to knock the judge and jury, and all the rest on 'em, hinto the middle hof next week, hif not further, that day. 'rTwas no go, though; hand hover the water he goes to-morrow."' "Poor fellow! Mr. Haskins, I'm sorry. for him-I really am," said Mr. Toosypegs, in a tone of real sincerity. '  Mr. Harkins burst out into a gruff laugh. "Well, hif this ain't good! Wot fools folks  is! Sorry for a cove yer never saw I Wonder hif hall Hainerioans is as green as you be?" After this sentence, which came out in a se- ries of little jerks, with strong notes of admira- tion appended to each, Mr. Harkins relapsed into c silence and the collar of his great-coat, and be- gan whistling "' The Devil Aniong the Tailors," c in a voice like a frog with the influenza. 'They were now rapidly approaching the city t --the loud crash and din ofwhich had some- a what'subsided, owing to 'the inclemency of the c weather and the latess of the hour. , The gip. 1   i sy, who had not heard a word of the foregoing I conversation-it, having been carried on in a prudently-subdued tone - had wrapped her coarse cloak closer around her, while the gaze of her devouring eyes grew more intense, as the lights of the city began to appear. One by one, they came gleaming out through the dense fog with bug-like stars, 'here and there ;, and in every direction. The city was gained; and they were soon in the very midst of the great, throbbing heart of mighty London. The wagon stopped, and Mr. Toosypegs sprang out to assist,the woman to alight. But waving him ,away with an impatient mo- tion, she sprang out unassisted, and without one word or look of thanks, turned and flitted away iu the chill night-wind. "There  I knowed that would be all the thanks ye'd get," said Mr. Harkins, with a hoarse chuckle. "Hoff she goes, and you'll never see her again." "Well, that don't matter any. I didn't want thanks, I'm sure," said the kind-hearted Mr. Toosypegs. "Good-bye, Mr. Harkins. Give my respects. to Mrs. Harkins."' "Good-night, hold fellar," said Mr. Harkins, giving Mr. Tooeypegs' hand a cordial shake. "You're a brick I How I'd like to come ha- cross one like you hevry night. Go' right to Bob's, sign o' the ' Blue Pig,' St. Giles's, beet o' 'commodation for-man and beast; but I told you that before. .Tell Bob I sent you, and I'll call and see ye in a few days." "You're very good, Mr. Harkins. I'll cer- tainly tell Mr. Bob so when I see him 1" said Mr. Toosypegs, with a severe twinge of con- science at the deception he felt himself to be us- ing; " and I'll be very glad to see you whenever you call. I'm very much obliged to you." CHAPTER Im. THE LOVE1RS. "Oh, thou shalt be all else to me, That heart can feel, or tongue can feign; I'll praise, admire, and worship thee, But must not, dare not, love again."--MooaB. While the solitary wagon was driving, through wind and rain, along the lonely north road, bearing its three strangely-conetrasted inmates -the gruff, avaricious driver,. the simple, kind- hearted youth, and the Aark, fierce, sthern wom- an--a far different scene was passing in another quarter of the city. At that same hour, the town-mansion of lHuh Seyton--Earl De 0our- ey--was all ablaze with lights, music, and mairth. Gorgeous drawing-rooms, fretted with gold and carving, dazzling with numberless jets of light from the pendant chandeliers, odorous with the heavy perfume of costly exotics,.the very air quivering with softest music, iwere thrown open, and were filled with the proud, the high- born, the beautiful, of London. Peers and peer-     eases, gallant nobles and ladies bright, moved through the glittering rooms.; and ini laughing, talking, flirting, dancing, the night was waning apace  -       .     . .  Twq young men stood together within the deep shadow of a .bay window, in the music- room, Watching a. group assembled round a young lady at the piaio; and conversing in low tones, One of these was decidedly the handsomest ma ipresent thatnight. Ia staturehe wastall, somewhat above the conimon height, and fault- less in form anfd figure, with a certain air of dis- tingiue about him that stamped him as one of no- ble birth. His clear, faireomiplexion, his curl- ing, chestnut hair, and large, blue eyes, betray- ed his :Saxon blood. His face might have seem- ed slightly effeminate; but no one in looking at the high, kingly brow, the dark, flashing eyes, and firm-set, mouth, would have thought that long. A dark moustache shaded his upper-lip, and a strange, nameless beauty lit up and soft- ened his, hiandsome face whenever he smiled. Adored by the ladies, envied by the men, Lord ErnestYVilliers,.only. son of Earl De Couroy, seemed to have'nothing: on earth left to wish for.  E     .     -. And yet, at times, lover that white, intellect- ual brow a dark :shadow would flit; from the depths of those dark, handsome eyes the bright light of a happy heart would. pass; the mouth would grow stern, and a look of troubled care would, darken his young face.  His companion, a good-looking- young man, with' a certain air about him as if he were some- i body and knew it, with a listless look, and most desirable curling whiskers, leaned against' a marble Hebe, and listened languidly to the singing. He wore the undress uniform' of an offider, and being- interpreted, was no other than Captain George Jernyngham, of the Guards. "What a wonderful affair this is of Ger- maine'--eh, Villiera?" said Captain. Jernyng- ham,. caressing his moustache. "Just like a thing in a play, or a story, where everybody turns out the most unexpected- things. The Duke of B-- is going crazy about it. He had had invited Germaine to his house, and the fel- low was making the fiercest sort of love 'to his prettyr daughter, when all of a sudden, it turns out that he is a rdbbei, a gipsy, a burglar, aid  all sorts of horrors. -How the deuce came it to pass that' he entered Eton with us; and passed himself off as:a-gentleman?" .  . -  "I cannot tell; the whole -affair is involved in mystery."             :  " You and he were pretty intimate-were you aot,.my lord?"    .   .... . "Yes, I took. a fanoy to, Germaine from the first; and I .'don't berieve,yet, 'he-ii gilty of thie crime they charge ;himwAith." -  *' You don't, eh? S ee what it is -to. have   I faith in human nature. How are you to get over the evidence?" "It was-only circumstantial." "Grapted; but 'it was most conclusive. There is not another man in London has the slightest doubt of his guilt; but yourself." *' Poor .Germaine l" said- Lor Vlliers, in a tone of deep feeling; "with all' his brilliant -talents, his high endowments, and refined na- ture, to come to such a sad end I To be oblig- ed to mate with the lowest of the lo*, the vilest of the vile-men degraded by every species of crime, below the level of the brute! And this for life! Poor Germaine!" The young guardsman shrugged his shoul- ders.    -  "If refind men will steal-oh, I forgot! you don't believe it," he said, as Lord Villiers made an impatient motion.  "Well, I confess, I thought better things of Germaine myself. There was always something of the dare-devil in him, and he was reckless and extravagant to a fault; but upon my honor, I never thought he could have come to this. Have you seen him since his trial?" " "No, I had not the heart to meet him. Death would be preferable to such a fate." "There was a devil in his eye, if there ever was in any man's, when he heard his sentence," observed the young captain. "No one that saw him is likely to forget, in a hurry, the way -he-folded his arms and smiled in the judge's face, as he pronounced it. By Jovel I'm not given to nervousness, but I felt a sensation akin to an ague-shiver, as I watched him.", "With' his -fierce, passionate nature, it will turn him-into a perfect demon," said Lord-Vil- liers; "and if ever he escapes, woe to those :who have caused his' disgrace! He is as, im- placable as death or doom in' his hate-as re- lentless as a Corsican in his vengeance." "Has he any friends or relatives among the gipsies a"              t '"Idon't know. .I think I heard of a mother, or brother, or something. 'I intend paying him -a last visit, to-night, and will deliver any mes- sage he'may send to his friends." "Will your-rigorous father approve of such a visit, since it was he- that prosecuted Ger- maine?"'  --   .    "Certainly, Jernyngham. My father, believ- ing in his guilt, thought it his duty to do so ; but he bears no feeling of personal anger tow-- ard him,'" said Lord Villiers, gravely. "Well, I wish Germaine a safe passage across the ocean," said, Captain, Jernyngham, as he -lietlesely, admired his hand in its well-fitting glove,.- "He was a confoundedly good-looking fellow ;eutime completely out with that pretty Jlittleprize-widow of old Sir Rob Landers; but I'll be 'magnanimous and forgive him, now. 'Oh, by Jove l-I Vlliers, there goes Lady Maude Percy 1" cried- the guardsman, starting sudden-     ly up, all his listlessness disappearing as if by magic. "Ye gods! what a perrectlv, dazzling beauty! Ah! my lord, I thought you would find the subject more interesting than that of poor Germaine," lie added, with a mischievous smile at his companion's lock of intense admi- ration.                \ Lord Villiers laughed, nd his clear ice flushed.  "The handsomest girl in London, and the greatest heiress," said the g ardsman, resuming his half-drawl and languid caressing of his whis kers. "What an intensely enviable fellow you are, Villiers, if rumor is true." "And what says rumor?" said Lord Villiers, coldly. "Why, that you are the accepted lover of the fair Lady Maude." Before the somewhat haughty reply of Lord Villiers was spoken, a yo ng lady, suddenly entering the room, caught sight of them, and coming over, she addressed the guardsman with: "George, you abominably lazy fellow, have you forgotten you are engaged for this set to Miss Aslton? Really, my lord, you and this idle brother of mine ought to be ashamed to make hermits of yourselves in this way, while so many bright eyes are watching for your coming. Lady Maude is here, and I will report you."                  I And raising her finger warningly, Miss Jer- nyngham tripped away.  I "'Fare thee well-and  f forever!'" said Captain Jernyngham, in a tragic tone, as he turned away. "Why, forever fare thee well I'" said Lord Villiers, laughing, as he finibhed the quotation, and turned in an opposite d rection. ; The dancing was at its 1 eight as he passed from the music-room. Starding a little apart, his eyes went wandering over the fair forms tripping through the "mazy dance," while they rested on one form fairer than all the rest, and his handsome face brightened, and his fine eyes lit up, as a man's alone does, when he watches the woman he loves. Standing at the head of ore of the quadrilles', was the objedt of his gaze-the peerless, high- born, Lady Maude Percy. Eighteen summers i had scarce passed over her young head, yet a thoughtful, almost sad, expression ever fell like i a shadow on her beautiful face. -Her form was rounded, exquisite, perfect iher oval face per- t fectly colorless, save for the full, crimson lips;  her eyes large, dark, and lustrous as stars, and t fringed by long, silken-black lashes; her  shining hair fell in soft, glittering, spiral curls, like raveled silk, round her fair, moonlight face; X and her pallor seemed deepened by its raven  hue. Her dress was of white brocade, fringed t with seed-pearls and her snowy arms and neck I gleamed through misty olccds of point lace. x   Pale, oriental pearls wreathed her midnighit r, and ran in rivers of light around her nelk. Queenly, peerless, dazzling, she moved through the brilliant train of beauties, eclipsing them all,ras a meteor outshines lesser stars. Drinking in the enchanting draught of her beauty to intoxication, Lord Ernest Villieis stood leaning against a marble pillar until the dance was concluded; and then moving toward her, as she stood for an instant alone, he bent over her, and whispered, in a voice that was low but full of passion: "Maude! Maude! why have you tried to avoid me all the evening? I must see you! I must speak to you in private! I must hear my destiny from your lips to-night!" At the first sound of his voice she had starts ed quickly, and the "elocuent blood" had flooded cheek and bosom with its rosy light; but as he went on it faded away, and a sort of shiver passed through her frame as lie ceased. "Come with me into the music-room-it is deserted now," he said, drawing his arm through his. "There, apart from all those prying eyes, I can learn my fate." Paler still grew the pale face of the lady; but without a word, she suffered herself to be led to the shadowy and deserted room he had just left. "And now, Maude-my own love-may I claim an answer to the question I asked you last night?" lihe said, bending over her. "I answered you then, my lord," she said, sadly. "Yes; you told me to go-to forget you; as if such a thing were possible. Maude, I can- not, I will not, take that for an answer. Tell me, do you love me?" "O Ernest! - O my dear lord! you know I do " she cried, passionately. "Then, Maude-my beautiful one-will you not be mine-my wife?" "Oh, I     cannot! I cannot Ernest, I an not!" she said, with a convulsive shudder. "Cannot I And why, in Heaven's name!" "My lord, that is my secret. I can never, never be your wife. Choose some one worthier of you, and forget Maude Percy." She tried to steady her voice, but a stifled sob finished the sentence. For all answer he gathered her in his strong irms, and her head dropped on his shoulder. "My poor, little romantic Maude, what is :his wonderful secret?" he said, smiling. "Tell me, and we will see if your mountain does not ;urn out a molehill after all., Now, why cannot you be my wife?' "You think me weak and silly, my lord," she said, raising her head somewhat proudly, ind withdrawing from his retaining arms; "but there is a reason, one suficient to separate u brever-one that neither you nor any living nortal can ever know!"     "And you refuse to tell this reason? My father and yours are eager for the match; in *old4ily rank we are. equals ; . love you passion- 'tely, with all my heart and soul, and still you refuse. Maude, you never loved me," he said, bitterly. Sirr pale sweet face was bent in her hands now, and large tears fell through her fingers. "Maude, you will not be so cruel," he said, Witih sudden hope. "Only say I may hope for this dear hand." "No, no! Hope for nothing but to forget one so miserable as I am. O Lord Ernest! there are so many better and worthier than I am, who will love you. I will be your friend- your sister, if I may; but I can never be your rife." "Maude, is there guilt, is there crime con- nected with this secret of yours?" he demand- ed, stepping before her. She rose to her feet impetuously, her cheeks crimsoning, her large eyes filling and darklen. ing with indignation, her nolle brow expanded, her haughty little head erect. "And you think me capable of crime, Lord Villiers?-of guitt that needs concealment?" 'he said, With proud scorn. "You, Maude? No; sooner would I believe an angel from heaven guilty of crime, than you. But I thought there might be others involved. O tady Maude! must this secret, that involves the happiness of, my whole life, remain hidden *omn me?" The bright light had died out from the beau- tlfdi1 eyes of Lady Maude; and her tone was very sad, as she replied': "Some day, my lord, I will tell you all; but not now. Let us part here, and let this subject hever be renewed between us." "One word, Maude-do you love me?" "I do! I do! Heaven forgive me!" "Now, why, 'Heaven forgive me?' Maude  MaudeI you will drive me mad I I it such a crime to love me, then?" "In some it is," she said, in her low, sad  voiee. i "And why, fairest saint?" "Do not ask me, my lord. O Ernest! let  nme go,'I am tired and sick, and very, very un-  happy. Dearest Ernest, leave me, and never  speak of this again." "As you will, Lady Maude," he said, with a -bow, turning haughtily away.  But a light touch, that thrilled to his very  ieart, Was Iaid on his arm, and the low, sweet i 'bice of Lady Mairde, said: . "I have offended you, my lord; pray forgive I ar am  not offended, Lady Maudo Percy; t nteither havel anything to forglv*" he said; but r his fite face Was clouded with moitifiation, t "VY   'vhave rfdejeted -me, and I 'prfesume the t matter ends there."            1   I "But you are offended, I ean hear it in your voice. O Lord Villiers, if you knew how un- happy I am, you would forgive me the pain I have caused you."     - Her tone touched him, and taking her hand gently, he said: "It is I who should ask forgiveness, Lady Maude. Yes, I will accept the friendship you offer, until such time as I can claim a better re- ward. Notwithstanding all you have said, I do not despair still." He pressed her hand to his lips and was gone. "Excuse me, your lordship," insinuated a most aristocratic footman in his ear, at that mo- ment, " but there is an individual down stairs who persists on seeing the earl, and won't take no for an answer." "Who, is it?" inquired Lord Villiers, im- patiently. "A gipsy, my lord, a desperate-looking old tramper, too." "What's that about gipsies?" said the uncere- monious little Miss Jernynghnm, passing at that moment. "You must know, my lord, I fairly dote on gipsies, ever since I saw that charming young man they are going to trais- port." "How I wish I were a gipsy!" said Lord Vil- liers, gayly, "for such a reward." "Pray spare your pretty speeches for Lady Maude Percy, my lord," lisped Miss Jernyng- ham, giving him a tap with her fan; but about this gipsy-is it a man or a woman." "A woman, miss, they call her the gipsy queen, Ketura." "A gipsy queen! oh, delightful 1" cried the young lady, clapping her hands; "' my lord, we must have her up, by all, means. I insist on having my fortune told." "Your slave hears but to obey, Miss Jernyng- ham," said Lord Vithers, with a bow. "Jonson, go and bring the old lady up." "Yes, me lud," said Jonson, hurrying off. "  George-George I do come here," exclaim- ed the young lady, as her brother passed; "I want you.' "  What's all this about?" said the guardsman, lounging up. "  My dear Clara, the way you do get the steam up at a moment's notice is per- fectly astonishing. What can I do for you?" ," Do you want to have your fortune told?" If any good sybil would predict for me a rich wife, who' would pay my debts, and keep me provided with kid gloves and cigars, I wouldn't object; but:in any other case---" His speech' as tut short by the sudden ap- pearance of the footman with the gipsy-queen, of whom hemseenmed considerably afraid. And truly not without reason-; for a lioness inher lair might hai looked about as safe an animalas the dark, fierce-eyed gipsy queen. Even the two youngmen started; and Miss Clara Jernyng- ham stifleda little scream behind her fan.   "I- wish to see Earl De Courcy," was her ab- rupt demand. " And we wish our fortune told, good mother," said Lord Villiers, " my father will attend to you presently." "Your father!" said the woman fixing her piercing eyes on his handsome face, "then you are Lord Villiers." "You have guessed it. What has the future in store for me?" "Nothing good fob your father's son," she hissed through her clenched teeth. "Give me your hand." He extended it with a smile, and she took it in hers, and peered into it. What a contrast they were! his, white, small, and delicate; her hand, bronzed and rough. "Well, mother, wha has destiny in store for me?" "Much good or more evil. This night de- cides thy destiny; either thou shalt be blest for\ life, or if the scale turns gainst thee-then woe to thee! Stand aside--te earl approaches." A tall, distinguished-looking man of middle age approached, and loo ed with grave surprise on the group before him. "A word with you, lor -earl," said the gipsy, onfronting him. "Speak out, then." "It must be in private.' "Who are you?" said the earl, surprised and curious. "I am called the gipsy ueen, Ketura," said the woman, drawing hersel up. "And what do you want of me, woman?" "I tell you I must speak in private. Is your time so precious that yo-i cannot grant ten minutes of it to me?" said the woman, with a fiercely-impatient flash of her black eyes. "This way, then," said -he earl, impressed by the woman's commandinj look and tones, as he turned and led the way across a wide lighted hall to a richly-furnished library. Seating himselfin a softly-cushioned lounging- chair, he waited for his singular visitor to begin. CHAPTER IV. THE  GIPSY'S VOW. "May the grass wither from thy feet! the woods Deny' thee shelter! earth, a home! the dust, A grave! the sun, his light! nd heaven, her God!" -BtRON . "Well, madam I I am waiting," said 'the earl, after a pause, during .wlich the wild, black eyes of the woman were fixel immovably on his face, until he began to grov uneasy under the steady glare. "Lord earl, behold at thy feet a mother who comes to plead for her son " said the strange woman, sinking on her kne s at his 'feet, and holding up her clasped hands.  "Madam, I do nat unders-,and," said the earl,  surprised, andfeeling himself obliged, as itwere,    1 to use a respectful form of address, by thetom- an's commanding look. "My son is iu your power my darling, my t only son Imy first-born I Oh, spare him, said the woman, still holding up her clasped r hands. "Your sonl Madam, I do not understand," said the earl, knitting his brows in perplexity. "You have condemned him to transportation I And he is innocent-as innocentof the crime for which he is to suffer as the angels in- hea- ven," cried the woman, in passionate tones. "Madam, I assure you, f do not understand. Who is your son F' said the earl, more and more perplexed. "You know him as Germaine, but he is my son, Reginald- my only son! Oh, my lor#i! spare him! spare him " wildly pleaded the gipsy queen. "Madam, rise." "Not until you have pardoned my son." "That I will never do I Your son has been found guilty of willful robbery, and has been very justly condemned. I can do nothing for him," said the earl, while his brow grew dark, and his mouth hard and stern.  My lord, he is innocent!" almost shrieked the wretched woman at his feet. "I do not believe it! He has been proven guilty," said the earl, coldly.  "It is false I as false as the black hearts of the perjurers who swore against him!" fiercely ex- claimed the gipsy; l" he is innocent of this crime, as innocent of it as thou art, lord earl. O Earl De Courey, as you hope for pardon from God, pardon him." "Madam, I command you to rise." "Never, never I while my son is in chains  O my lord, you do not know, you never can dream, how I have loved that boyl I had no one else in the wide world to love; not a drop of kindred blood ran in any human heart but his; and I loved, I adored, I wolrshiped him! O Lord de Courcy, I have suffered cold, and hun- ger, and thirst, and hardship, that he might never want; I have toiled for him night aad day, that he might never -feel pain; I have stooped to actions I loathed, that he might be happy and free from guilt. And, when he grew older, I gave him up, though it was like read- ing soul and body apart. I sent him away* I sent him to school with the money that years :and years of unceasing toil had enabled me Ito 'sve. I sent him to be educated with gentle- men. I never i-asme near him, lest .any one should suspect his mother was a gipsy. Yei; I gave him up, though it was like tearing my very heartstrings-apart, 'ontent in knowing ie was happy, and in seeing him at a distane At long intervals. 'For twenty-three years, my life has been Onelong, dream of him; sleeping or waking, in suffering and trial, the thought fiat he Was near me gave me joy and strength.     And now he is condemned for life-condemned to a far-off land, among convicts and felons, where I will never see him again I O Lord de Courcy I mercy, mercy for my son!" With the wild cry of a mother's agony, eie shrieked out that frenzied appeal for mercy, and groveled prone to the floor at his feet. A spasm of pain passed over the face-of the earl; but he answered, sternly: "Woman, your son is guilty. I cannot par- don him!"  "He is not guilty! Perish the soul so base as to believe such a falsehood of my high-heart. ed boy " cried the gipsy, dashing fiercely back her wildly-streaming black hair. "He, my proud, glorious, kingly-hearted Reginald, stoop to such a crime I Oh I sooner could the angels themselves be guilty of it than he!" "Woman, you rave I Once again ' tell you, rise i" "Pardon, pardon for my son!" "Madam, I cannot. I pity you. Heaven knows I do I but he is guilty, and must suffers" "O my God! how shall I convince him " cried the wretched woman, wringing her hands in wildest despair. "O Earl de Couroy, you, too, have a son, handsome, gallant and noble, the pride of your old age, the last scion of your proud race I For his sake, for the sake of your son, pardon mine!" "Once more I tell you, I cannot. Your son is condemned; to-morrow his sentence will be -executed, and I have no power to avert it. And madam, though I pity you deeply, I must again say he deserves it. Nay-hear me out. I know you do not believe it; yoq think him innocent, and, being his mother, it is natural you should think so; but, believe me, he is none the less guilty. Your son deserves his fate, all the more so for his ingratitude to you, after all you have done for him. I 'deeply pity you, as Heaven hears me, I do l" "Oh then, for my sake, if there is. one spark of pity for me in your heart, do not kill me! For, Lord de Courcy, it will be a double mur-  der, his death and mine, if this sentence is exe- outed." "The law must take its course; I cannot pre-  vent it. And once more, madam, I beseech you to rise. You should kneel to God alone." "God would forgive him, had I pleaded to  Him thus; but you, tiger-heart, yoz will not!"  shrieked the woman, throwing up her arms in  the impotence of her despair. "O lord earl, I  have never knelt to God or man before; and to have my petition spurned now! You hold my t life in the hollow of your hand, and you will not e grant it 1" "I tell you I cannot."  "You can-you can I It is - your power I You are great, and rich, and powerful, and can have his sentence annulled. By your soul's alvation, by your hopes of heaven; by your,   mother's grave, by Him whom you worship, I conjure you to save my son!" l'he haggard face was convulsed; the brow was dark, and corrugated with agon ; the lips white and quivering; the eyes wild, lurid, blaz- ing with anguish and despair; her clenched hands upraised in passionate p rayer for pardon. A tearful sight was that despair-maddened wom- an, as she knelt at the stern earl's feet, her very voice sharp with inward agony. He shaded his eyes with his hands to keep out the pitifil sight/; but his stern, determined look passed not away. His face seemed harden- ed with iron, despite the deep pity of his heart. "You are yielding! He will yet be saved! Oh, I knew that iron-heart would soften!" she cried out, with maniac exultation, taking hope from his silence. "My poor woman, you deceive yourself.  can do nothing for your son," said the earl, sadly. "What  Do you still refuse? Oh, it cannot be! I am going mad, I think! Tell me-tell me that my son will live!" "Woman, I have no power over your son's life." "Oh, you have-you have I! Do you think he could live one single day among those with whom you would send him? As you hope fox pardon on that last dread day, pardon my son!" "It is all in vain. Rise, madam.' "You refuse?" "I do. Rise!" With the fearful bound of a wild beast, she sprang to Iaer feet, and, awful in her rage, like a tigress robbed of her young, she stood before him. Even the stern earl drew back in dis. may. "Then, heart of steel, hear ME!" she cried, raising one long arm toward heaven,and speaking in a voice terrific in its very depth of despair. "Tiger-heart, listen to me! From this moment I vow, before God and all his angels, to devote my whole life to revenge on you! Living,. may ruin, misery, and despair, equal to mine, be your portion; dead, may you never rest in the earth you sprung from! And, when standing before the judgment-seat of God, you sue for pardon, may He hurl your miserable soul back to perdition for an answer I May my curse de- scend to your children and childrens' children forever May misery here and hereafter be their portion! May every earthly and eternal evil follow a wronged mother' curse!" Appalled, horrified, the iron earl shrank back from that awful, ghastly look, and that convuls- ed, terrific face-that face of a fiend, and not of mortal woman. A moment after, when he mis- ed his head, he was alone, and the gipsy, Ketura, was gone. Whither?   CHAPTER- V. MOTHER AND sO     .\ "O my son Absalom! my son, my son Absalom! Would to God, I might die for thee! O Absalom! my soni, my son!" That same night; that night of storm and tempest without, and still fiercer storm and tem- pest within; that same night-three hours later: in a narrow, dark, noisome cell, with grated window and iron-barred door, with a rude pal- let of straw comprising the furniture, and one flickering, uncertain lamp lighting its tomb- like darkness, sat two young men. ' One of these was a youth of three-and-twenty; tall and slender in form, with a dark, clear com- plexion; a strikingly-handsome face; a fierce, flashing eye o fire; thick, clustering curls of jet; a daring, reckless air, and an expression of mingled scorn, hatred, defiance, and fierceness in his face. Th4 re were fetters on his slender wrists and .dc les, and he wore the degrading dress of a condemned felon. By his side sat Lord Ernest Villiers - his handsome face looking deeply sad' and grave. "And this is all, Germaine?" he said, sor- rowfully. "Can I do nothing at all for you?" "Nothing. Whatdo you think I want? Is not the government, in its fatherly care, going to clothe, feed, and provide for me during the remainder of my mortal life? Why, man, do you think me unreasonable?" He laughed a bitter, mocking laugh, terrible to hear. "Germaine, Heaven knows, if I could do any- thing for yon, I would!" said Lord Villiers, ex- citedly. 4 My father, like all the rest of the  world, believes you guilty, and I can do noth- ing. But if it will be any consolation, remem- ber that you leave one in England who still be- lieves you innocent." "Thank y, u, Villiers. There is another, too,  who, I think, will hardly believe I have taken to  petty pilfering, yonr father and the rest of the magnates of the land to the contrary, notwith- standing." "Who is that, Germaine?" "My mother." "Where is she? Can I bring her to you?" said Lord Villiers, starting up. "You are very kind; but it is not in your power to do so," said the prisoner, quietly. ," My mother is, probably in Yetlolm with her tribe. You don't need to be told, now, I am an  gipsy: my interesting family history was pretty generally made known at my trial." Again he laughed that short, sarcastic laugh so s8al to hear.  "My dear fellow, I think none the worse of W you for that. Gipsy or Saxon, I cannot forget you once saved my life. and that you have for years been my best friend." "Well, it is pleasant to know that there is one in the world who cares for me; and if I do die   like a dog among my fellow-convicts, my last hour will be cheered by the thought,' said the' a! young man, drawing a deep breath. "If ever y you see my mother, which is not likely, tell her t was grateful for all she did for me; you need d not tell her I was innocent, for she will know that. There is another, too-" He paused, and his dark face flushed, and then grew paler than before. "My dear Germaine, if there is any message I can carry for you, you have only to command me," said the young lord, warmly. "No; it is as well she should not know it- better, perhaps," muttered the prisoner, half to himself. "I thank you for your friendly kind- ness, Villiers; but it will not be necessary." "And your mother, Germaine, how am I to know her?" "Oh, I forgot I Well, she's called the gipsy Ketura, and is queen of her tribe.' It is some- thing to be a queen's son-is it not?" he said, with another hard, short laugh. "Ketura, did you say?" repeated Lord Vil- liers, in surprise. "Yes. What has surprised you now?" "Why, the simple fact that I saw her three hours ago." "Saw her! Where?" "At my father's house. She came to see him." Germaine sprang up, and while his eyes fiercely flashed, he exclaimed: "Came to see Lord De Couroy? My mother came to see him! Villiers, you do not mean to say that my mother came to beg for my life " My dear fellow, I really do not know. The interview was a private one. All I do know is, that half an hour after my father returned among his guests, looking very much as if he had just seen a ghost. In fact, I never saw him with so startled a look in all my life before. Whether your mother had anything to do' with it or not. I really cannot say." "If [ thought she could stoop to sue for me," exclaimed the youth, throughi his clenched teeth; " but no, my mother was too proud to do it. My poor, poor mother  How was she looking, Villiers?"  Very haggard, very thin, very worn and wild. very wretched, in a word-though that was to be expected." "Poor mother!" murmured the youth, with quivering lips, As he bowed his face in his man- acled hands, and his manly chest rose and fell with strong emotion. "My dear fellow," said Lord Villiers, with tears in his own eyes, "your mother shall never want while I live.' The prisoner wrung his hand in silence. "If you like, I will try to discover her, and send her to you before you-"  His voice clinked, and he stopped. "My dear Villiers, you have, indeed, proen n     yourself my friend," said the convict, gratefully. ' If you could see her, and send her to me be- foi I leave England to-morrow, you would be conferring, the greatest possible &fvor on me. There are several things of which I wish to speak to her, and *hich I cannot reveal to any one else-not even to you." "Then I will instantly go in search of her," said Lord Villiers, rising and taking his t. "My dear Germaine, good-bye." "Farewell, Ernest. God bless you l" The hand of the peer and the gipsy met a strong clasp, but neither could speak. And so they parted. The prison-door closed between the convicted felon and his high-born friend. Did either dream how strangely they were destined to meet again? With his face shaded by his hand, the prisonbr sat; that small, white bland, delicate as a lady's, doomed now to the unceasing labor of the convict, when a noise as of persons in altercation in the passage with- out met his ears. He raised his head to listen, and recognized the gruff, hoarse voice of his jailer; then the sharp, passionate voice of a woman; and, lastly, the calm, clear tones of Lord Ernest Villiers. His'words seemed to de- cide the matter; for the huge key turned in the ruttylock, the heavy door swung back on its hinges, and the tall form of gipsy Keturapass- ed into the cell. "Mother!" The prisoner started to his feet, and with a passionate cry': "O my son I my son!" he was elasped in the arms of his mother-clasped and held there in a fierce embrace, as though hhe defied Heaven itself to tear them apart. "Thank Heaven, mother! that I see you again!"              s "'Heaven!" she broke out, with passionate fierceness, "never mention it again t What is heaven, and God, and mercy, and happiness 9 All a mockery, and worse than a mockery " " "My poor mother " '  "What have I done, that I should lose you?" she cried, with a still-inereasing, fierceness. "What crime have I committed, that I should be doomed to a hell upon earth? He was con-  peived in sin and born in iniquity, even as I  dras; yet the God you call upon permits him to live happy, rich, honored, and prosperous, while : -oh! it maddens me to think of it! But I will have revenge!"-rshe added, while her fierce  eyes blazed, and her long, bony hand clenched a- "yes, fearful revenge I If I an doomed to pet- c dition, A shall drag him down along with me!" "Mother  mother!l Do not talk so! Be i "Calm   With these flames, like eternal fires, s raging in my heart and brain? Oh, for the hour t hien liis life-blood shall cool their blazing!"  "Mother, you are going mad!" said the young man, almost sternly. " laless you are e calm, we must part."      Oh yes! We will part to-morrow. You - will go over the boundless sea with all the thieves, e and murderers, and scum of London, and H  will live for revenge. By-and-b you will kill yourself, and I will be hung for his murder." r  She laughed a dreary, cheerless laugh, while her eyes grew unnaturally bright with the fires ' of incipient insanity. "Poor mother!" said the youth, sadly. "This is the hardest blow of all Try and bear up, for my sake, mother. Did you see Lord Do Courcy to-night?" "I did. May Heaven's heaviest curses light on him!" exclaimed the woman, passionately. I  "Oh! to think that he, that any man, should hold my son's life in the hollow of his hand, while I am here, obliged to look on, power- less to avert the blow! May God's worst ven- geance light on him, here and hereafter!" Her face was black with the terrific storm of inward passioti; her eyes glaring, blazing, like those of a wild beast; her long, talon-like fin- gers clenched until the nails sank deep in the quivering flesh. "Mother, ,did you stoop to sue for pardon for me to-night?" said the young man, while his brow contracted with a dark frown. " h, I did! I did'! I groveled at his feet. I cried, I shrieked, I adjured him to pardon you -I, who never knelt to God or man before-and he refused! I kissed the dust at lis feet, and he replied by a cold refusal. But woe to thee, Earl De Courcy!" she cried, bounding to her feet, and dashing back her wild, black hair. "Woe to thee, and all thy house! for it were safer to tamper with the lightning's chain than with the aroused tigress' Ketnra." "Mother, nothing is gained by working your- self up to such a pitcho of passion; you only beat the air with your breath. I am calm." "Yes, calm as a volcano on the verge of erup- tion," she said, looking in his gleaming eyes and icy smile. "And I am submissive, forbearing, and for- giving." "Yes, submissive as a crouching lion-forgiv- ing as a tiger robbed of its young-forbearing as a serpent preparing to spring." He had awed her-even her, that raving ma- niac-into calm, by the cold, steelly glitter of his dark eyes; by the quiet, chilling smile on his lip. In that fixed, iron, relentless look, she read a strong, determined purpose, relentless as death, or doom, or the grave; terrific in its very quiet, implacable in its very depth of calm, overtop- ping and surmounting her own. "We understand each other, I think,"'he said, quietly. "You perceive, mother, how ut- terly idle these mad threats and curses of yours  are. They will effect nothing but to lhave yout  imprisoned as a dangerous lunatic; and it is neor, e s. ry you should be free to fulfill my last be- quest."'   Another mood had come over the dark, fierce woman, while he spoke. The demoniac look of passion that had hitherto convulsed her face gave way to one of despairing sorrow, and stretching out her arms, sihe passionately cried: ," O my son! my only onee! the darling of my old age I my sole earthl pride and hope! O Reginald! would to God we had both died ere we had lived to see this dy!" It was the very agony of grief-the last pas. sionate, despairing cry of mother's utmost woe, wrun fiercely from her tcrtured heart. "My poor mother-my dear mother!" said the youth, with tears in hdark eyes, "do not give way to this wild grif. Who knows what the future may bring forh?" She made no reply; but sat with both arms clasped roundl her klee-her dry, burning, tearless eyes glaring befor her on vacancy. "Do not despair, mother; we may yet meet again. Who knows?" he said, musingly, after a pause. She turned her red, inflamed eye-balls on him in voiceless inquiry. "There are such things as breaking chains and escaping, mother." Still that lurid, straining gaze, but no reply. "And I, if it be in the power of man, I shall escape-I shall return, an -thenl-" He paused, but his eyes. finished the sen- tence. Lucifer, taking his last look of heaven, might have worn just such a look-so full of relentless hate, burning revenge, and undying defiance. "You may come, but I will never live to see you," said the gipsy, in a oice so deep, hollow, and unuatural, that it se med issuing from a tomb. "You will-you must, mother. I have a sa- cred trust to leave you, for hich you must live," he said, impetuously. "A trust, my son?" "Yes. One that will lemand all your care for many years. You shall hear my story, moth- er. I would nottrust any living being but you; but I can confide fearlessly in you." "You have only to name your wishes, Regi- nald. Though"I should Lave to wade through Blood to fulfill them, fear aot." "Nothing so desperate will be required, moth- er. The less blood you have on your hands the better. My advice to you is, when I am gone, to return to Yetholm, and wait with patience for my return-for return I will, in spite of every-, thing."       -  Her bloodshot eyes kindled fiercely with in- vincible determination as je spoke, but she said nothing. "My story is a somewhat long one," he said, after a pause, during wh'ch a sad shadow had fallen on his handsome face; " but I suppose it is necessary I should tel. yen all. I thought  never to reveal it to any human being; but I,   a did not dream then of ever -oeing a convicted ffelon, as I am now." a  He had been sitting hitherto with his bead resting on his hand; now he arose and began :pacing to and fro the narrow cell, while the dark, stern woman, crouching in a distant eoop ner like a dusky shadow, watched him with her eyes. of fire, and prepared to listen. CHAPTER VL THE CHLD-WI E    . "Oh, had we never, never met, Or could this heart e'en now forget, How linked, how blessed we might have been, Had fate not frowned so dark between!" --Moom. "Eight years ago, mother," began the pris- oner, "I first entered Eton. Through your kindness, I was provided with money enonuh to enable me to mix on terms of equality in all things with the highest of its high-born students. No one dreamed I was a gipsy; they would as soon have thought of considering 'themselves one as me. I adopted the name of Reginald Germaine, and represented myself as the son of an exiled French count; and being by Nature gifted with a tolerable share of good looks, and any amount of cool assurance, I soon worked my way up above most of my titled compees, and became ringleader and primel favorite with students and professors. They talk of good blood showing itself equally in men as in horses, mother. I don't know how that may be, but certain it is the gipsy's son equaled all, and was surpassed by none in college. Infencing, shoot, ing, riding, boxing, rowing, I was as miuch at home as reading Virgil or translating Greek. If it is any consolation to you, mother, to know what an exceedingly talented son you have," he. said, with a bitter smile, " all this will be very consoling to you-more especially as Latin, and Greek, and all the rest of my manifold ac- complishments will be extremely necessary to me among my fellow-convicts in Van Dieman's Land.' It is very probable I will establish an in- fant school for young thieves and pickpockets when the day's labor is over. I wonder if our kind, fatherly, far-seeing, British Government dreams what an incalculable treasure they pos- sees in the person of Germaine, the convicted burglar!" His bitter, jeering tone wa'terrible to hear; but the dark, burning glare of his fierce eyes was more terrible still. Oh, it was a dreadful fate to look forward to--a chained, manacled! . convict for life-and so unjustly condemnedi With his fiere, gipsy blood, ist any wonder that every noble and generous feeling in hit breast should turn to gall? The dusky form crouching in the oorner moved not, spoke not; but the inflamed leye glared in the darkness like two red hot coals. "Well, mother, I was boasting of my oletv, /     I   I      ness when I interrupted myself-was I not?" he said, after a pause, during which he had been pacing, like a caged lion, up and down. "It is an exciting subject, you perceive; and if I get a little incoherent at times, you must only pass it over, and wait until I come to the point. That brief expose of my standing in the school was necessary, after all, as it will help to show the sort of estimation I was held in. When the va- cations came, numberless were the invitations I received to accompany my fellow-students home. Having no home of my own to go to, I need hardly say those invitations were ihvaria- bly accepted. How the good people who so lavishly bestowed their hospitality upon me feel now, is a question not very hard to Gnower, I. fancy I can see the looks of horror, amaze- ment, and outraged dignity that will fill some of those aristocratic mansions, when they learn that the dashing son and heir of the exiled Count Germaing, on whom they have condescended to smile so benignly, is no other than the co victed gipsy thief. It will be a regular farce to Witness, mother."  He laughed, but the grim, shadowy face in the corner was as immovable as a igure in stone.   t  "Among the friends I made at Etob," he went on, " there was one - a fine, princely- hearted fellow about my own age-called Lord Ererly. He was my ' fag' for a time, and, owing to a similarity of tastes and dispositions, we were Boon inseparable friends. Wherever one was, there the other was sure to be, until we were nicknamed Damon and Pythias,' by the rest. Of course, the first vacation after his coming, I received a pressing invitation to accompany him home; and, without requiring much coax- ing, I went." The young man paused, and a dark, earnest shadow passed over his fine face. When he again resumed, his voice was low and less bitter. - "I met my fate there, mother-the star of my destiny, that rose, for a few brief, fleeting mo- ments, and then set forever for me. I was a hot-blooded, hot-headed, hotter-hearted of nine- teen then, who followed the impulse of his own headstrong passions wherever they cho e to lead, without ever stopping to think. At Everly Hall I met the cousin of myfriend-one of the most perfectly beautiful creatures it has ever been my lot to see. Only fourteen years of age, she was so well-grown, and so superbly propor- tioned, as to be, in looks, already a woman ; and a woman's heart she already possessed. Her naImn, mother, it is not necessary to tell now. Suffice it to say, that name was one of the proud. aet of England's proud sons, and her family one of the highest and noblest in the land. Slhe was at Everly Hall, spending her vacation, too, and  daily ,we were thrown together. I had iuevr  loved before-never felt even those first moon- light-on-water affairs that most young. men    rave about. My nature is not one of those that love lightly; but it was as resistless, as impetu- 3ous, as fierce and consuming s a volcano's fire, when it came. Mother, I did'not love that beau- tiful child-woman. Level Pshaw  that is a cold word to express what I felt-every moon- struck youth prates about his love. No; I adored, I worshiped, I idolized her, the rememr brance of who I was, of who she was-all were as walls of smoke before the impetuosity of that first-consuming passion. The Everlys never dreamed-never, in the remotest degree, fan- cied-I, the son of an exiled count, could dare to lift my eyes to one whom a prince of the blood-royal might almost have wed without stooping. They had confidence in her, the proud daughter of a proud race, to think she would spurn me from her in contempt, did I dare to breathe my wild passion. But how little, in their cool, clear-headed calculations, did they dream that social position and worldly considers atiohs were as a cobweb barrier before the im- petuosity of first love I  "And so secure in the difference between us in rank, the Everlys permitted their beautiful niece to ride, walk, dance, and drive with the gay, agreeable son of the exiled Count Ger- maine. Oh! those long, breezy, morning rides, over the sloping hills and wide lawns that en- vironed the home of the Everlys! I can see her now, as, side by side, we rode homeward-I drinking in, until every sense was intoxicated, the bewildering draught of her beauty, as she sat on her coal-black pony, her dark riding- habit fluttering in the morning-breeze; her cheek flushed with health and happiness; her brilliant eyes, more glorious to me than all the stars in heaven; her bright, black hair flashing back the radiant sunlightl Oh! those long, moonlight strolls, arm-in-arm, through the wil. derness of roses, not half so beautiful as the queen-rose beside me, that bloomed in wild luxuriance in the gardens I Oh! those enchant- ing evenings, when, encircled by my arm, we ept time together to the delicious music of the voluptuous waltz. Then it was, there it was, that ,he gipsy youth wooed and won the high-born daughter of a princely race. For, mother, even as I loved her she loved me. No, not as I loved her-it was not in her nature to do that, but with all the passionate ardor of a first, strong passion. I had long known I was not indifferent to her; but when, one night, as I stood bending over her as she sat at the piano, and heard h'er stately lady-aunt whisper to a friend that, in a few more years, her ' lovely and accomplished niece' would become the bride of Lord Ernest Villiers, only son of 3arl De Courcy, all that had hitherto restrained me from telling that love was forgotteni. I saw her start, and turn pale as she, too, heard and caught the quick, anxious glance sire cast at me. All I felt at that moment must have been re-   vealed in my face; for,her eyes fell beneath mine, and the hot blood -mounted to her very brow. 'I And you are engaged to another,' I said, in a tone of passionate reproach. 'Oh, why did I not know this '  ", It is no engagement of my making,' she said, in a low, trembling voice. ' I never saw Lord Villiers, nor he me. Our fathers wish we should marry, that is all.' "' And will you obey?' I said, in a thrilling whisper. "' No,' she said, impulsively; 'never.' "The look that; accompanied the words made me forget all I had hitherto striven to remember. In an instant I was at her feet, pouring out my wild tale of passion; in another, she was in my arms, whispering the words that made me the happiest man on earth, :t was well for us both the room was nearly deserted, and the corner where we were in deepest shadow, or the ecstasies into which, like all lovers, we went, would have led to somewhat unpleasant consequences. But our destinies had decreed we should, for the time, have things all our own way; and that night, wandering in the pale, solemn moonlight, I urged, with all the eloquence of a first, resist- less passion, a secret marriage. I spoke of her father's compelling us to part; of his insisting on her marriage with one whom she could not love; I drew a touching de cription of myself, de- voted to a life of solitude and misery, nnd proba- bly ending by committing uicide-which mela.  eholy picture so worked upon her fears, that I i verily believe she would ave fled with me to New South Wales, had I asked it. And so I pleaded, with all the ardor of a passion that was as strong and uncontrollabbe as it was selfish and  exacting, until she promise, the following night,  to steal secretly out and fly withlme to where I t was to have a clergyman in waiting, and then  and there become my wife.  Once more he paused, and his fine eyes were t full of bitter self-reproach now.  "Mother, that was the turning-point in my destiny. Looking back to that time now, I can  wish I had been struck dead sooner than have a hurried, as I did, that impulsive, warm-hearted c girl into that fatal marriage. Then, in all the ,burning ardor of youth, I thought of nothing d but the intoxicating happiness within my grasp;*  and had an angel from heaven pleaded for the postponement of my designs, t would have t lurled a refusal back in is face. I thought f only of the present-of the joy, too ntense, al-  most, to beborne-and I steadily shut my eyes  to the future. I knew she would loathe, hate, d and despise me if she everl discovered-as dis- a cover she must some day-how I had deceived s; her; for, with all her love for me, she inherited tl the pride and haughtiness of her noble house uncontaminated, Had she known wLo I really E was, I know she would have considered me un- E worthy to touch even the hem of her garment. ir   "All that day she remaine  in her room; while I rode off to a neighboring town to e gag a a clergyman to unite us at the appointed hour. I Midnight found me waiting, at the trystingt place; and true to the hour, my beautiful bride, e brave in the strength of her love and woman's y faith in my honor, met me there, alone ; for I e would have no attendants to share our aonfi- dence. "Two horses stood waiting I lifted her into the saddle, sprung upon my own horse; and away we dashed, at a break-neck pace, to con- e summate our own future misery. There was no time for words; but I strove to whisper of the  r happy days in store for us, as we rode along. She did not utter a word; but hpr face was whiter than that of the dead when I lifted her from her saddle and drew her with me intq the church.    "The great aisles were dimly lighted by one solitary lamp, and by its light we beheld the clergyman, standing, in full canonicals, to Sanc- tion our mad marriage. Robed in a dark, low- ing dress, with her white face looking out from her damp, flowing, midnight hair, I can see her before me, as she stood there, shivering a- in- tervals with a strange presaging of future evil. "It was an ominous bridal, mother; for, as the last words died away, and we were pronoinc- ed man and wife, the harsh; dreadful croak of a. raven resounded through the vast, dim chui'h, and the ghostly bird of omen fluttered fbr a moment over our heads, and fell dead at four feet. Excited by the consciousness that she wns doing wrong; the solemn, unlighted old church; the dread, mystic hour-all proved too muoli for my little child-wife, and with*. piercing shriek she fell fainting in my arms. Mother, the uput. terable reproach of that wild, agonized cryill haunt me to my dying day." No words can describe the bitterness of his tone, the undying self-reproach that filled his dark eyes, as he spoke. "We bore her to the vestry; but it was long before she revived, and longer still before, with all the seductive eloquence of passionate love, I could soothe her into quiet.       "' O Reginald, I have done wrong-I bhve done wrong!" was her sorrowful, remorseful ry to'all I could say.          I "We paid the clergyman, and rode home- the gipsy youth and the high-born lady, united for life now by the mysterious tie of marriage, Now that the last, desperate step was taken, eyen I grew for a moment appalled at what I had done. But I did not repent. No; had it been again to do, I would have done it over a thu- sand times. I would have lost heaven sooner than her I               t "Three weeks longer we continued inmates of Everly hall; and no one ever suspected that we met other than as casual acquaintances. Look- ing back now on my past life, those are the only     days of unalloyed sunshine I can remember in the whole course ,if my life; and she-,she, too, closed her ey .; to the future, and was for the time beilg lerfectly happy. "But the time came when we were forced to part. She went back to school, while I return- ed to London. I met her frequently, at ifirst; but her father, after a time, began to think, per- haps, that, for the son of an exiled count, I was making too rapid progress in his daughter's af- fections, and peremptorily ordered her to dis, continue the acquaintance. But she loved me well enough to disobey him: and though I saw she looked forward with undisguised terror to the time when the revelation of our marriage would be made, we still continued to meet at long intervals. 4 So a year passed. One day, wishing to consult her about somethng-I forget what- we met at an appointed trysting-place. She en- tered the Jight chaise I had brought with me, and we drove off. The huases were half-tamed things at best, and in the outskirts of a little - village, several miles from the academy, tl,icy took fright at something, and started off hlle the wind. I strove in vain to check them. On they, flew, like lightning,l until suddenly coming in conta ct with a garden-fence, the chaise was a verthrown, and we were both flung violently out. '"I heard a faint cry from my companion, and unheeding a broken arm, which was my share of the accident, I managed to raise her from the ground, where she lay senseless, and bear her into the cottage. Fortunately, the cot- tage wans owned by an old widow, to whom I had once rendered some slight service which secured her everlasting gratitude; and mnore fcrtulnately still, my companion had received no injury from her fall, beyond a slight wound in the hend. "Leaving her in the care of the old woman, I went to the nearest surgeon, had my wounds dressed, and my horses disposed of until such times as we could resume our journey. Then I returned to the cottage ; but found, to my great alarm, that my wife, during my absence, had become seriously ill, arid was raving in the wild delirium of a burning fever. "There was no doctor in the village whose skill I could trust where her life was concerned; and, half-mad with terror and alarm, I sprang on horseback, and rode offto London for medical aid. i But, with all my haste, nearly twelve hours elapsed before I could return accompanied by a skillful though obscure physician, chosen by me because he was obscure, and never likely to meet her again. "As I entered, the feeble wail of an infant struck on my ear; and the first object on which my eyes rested as I went in, was the old woman sitting with a babe in her arms, while the child- mother lay still unconscious, as I had left her.   "M, ther, what I felt at that moment words can never disclose. Discovery now seemed in- evitable. She must wake to ths knowledge that he -for whom she had given up everything was a ipsy ; that her child bore in its veins the teinted gipsy blood Disowned and despised by adl her high-ltorn friends, she would hate-me for the irretrievable wrong I had done her; and to lose her was worse than death to me. "The intense anguish and remorse I endured at that moment, might have atoned for a darker crime than mine. I had never felt so fully, be- fore, the wrong I had done lher; and with the knowledge of its full enormity, came the reso- lution of making all the atonement ,in my pow- er. * The doctor had pronounced her illness se- vere, but not dangerous; and said that With ereful nursing she would soon be restored to health. When he was gone, I turned to the old woman, and inquired if she was williig to un- dertake the care of the child. The promise of being well paid made h1 r readily answer in the affirmative; and then we conCluded a bargain tLat she was to take care of the infant, and keep its existence a secret from every one, and, above all, from its mother. For I knew that she would never consent to give it up, and I was resolved tl at it should not be the means of dragging her down to poverty and disgrace. The woman was to keep it out of her sight while she r. nIitici, and tell her it had died, should she make any inquiries.  "During the next week, I scarcely ever left the cottage; and when she was sufficiently re- covered to,use a pen, she wrote a few lines to tle principal of the academy, saying she had gone to visit a friend, and would not return for a fortnight, at least. As she had ever been a petted child, accustomed to go and come un- questioned, her absence excited no surprise or suspicion; and secreted in the cottage, she re- mained for the next two weeks. How tl'e old woman managed to conceal the child I know not; but certain it is, she did it. "The time I had dreaded came at last. My better nature had awoke since the birth of my cild ; and I resolved to tell het all, cost whlatit might, and set her fiee. Mother, vou can con- ceive the bitter humiliation such a confession must have been to me-yet I made it. I told her all: how basely I had deceived her; how deeply I had wronged her. In that moment, every spark of love she had ever felt for me was quenched forever in her majestic indignation, her scorn, and utter contempt. Silently she arose and confronted me, white as the dead, superb in her withering scorn, as far above me as the heavens from the earth. All the pride of her proud race swelled in her breast, in a loathing too deep and intense for words; but those steady, darkening eyes, that seemed scintillating sparks of fire, I will never forget.   'Here we must part, Ihen, Reginald Ger- maine; and on this earth we must n ver meet again!' she said, in a voice steady frdm its very depth of scorn. 'Of the natchless vrong you have done me, I will not speak; it is too late for that, now. If one spark of the honor you once professed still lingers in your breast, be silent as regards the past. I ask no more. You have forever blighted my ife; but the world need; never know what we once were to each other. If money is any object"-and her beau- tiful lip curled with a crntempt too intense for words-" you shall have hlrlf my wealth-the whole of it, if you will-if it only buys your silence. I will return to school, and try to for- get the unutterable degradation into which I have sunk. You go your own way, and we are strangers from henceforth!' "Mother, mother! such was our parting: in scorn and hatred on one side; ir utter despair and undying remorse on the other. That day she returned to school; I fled. to dirown thiougt in the maddening whirl and tumult of London  and we have never met since. She is unmarried still, andt the reigning belle of every gilded sa- lon 'in London; but I know she never will, never can, forget the abyss of humiliation into  which I dragged her down. For her sake, to  insure her happiness, I would willingly end this wretched existence, butthat I must live for what is so dear to the gipsy heart-revenge! With v all her loftv pride, wat she will feel in know- 1 ing she is the wife of a convicted fe!on, God and u her own heart alone will ever cnow."  He tlrpew himself into a seat, and shading his  face with his hnds, sat silent; but the con-  vulsive heaving of his strong chest, his short, hard breathing, told more than words' could ever t do, what he felt at that molneot. And still the dusky shadow in the duskier corner sat silently I -glaring upon him with those red, lurid eyes of b "To tell you this story, to commit my child ol to your chlarge, I wished to see you to-night, D mother," he said, at last, without looking up. d "She does not dream of its existence, she was told it died the hour of its birth, and was buried while she was still unconscious In this pocket- lil book you will find the addr'ess f the woman who c kceeps it: tell her the count for s such she if knows me-sent you for it. Take it with you to m Yetholm, mother; try to think it is your son, Reginald, and  forget the miserable convict an whom you may never see morq." Still no reply, but oh, the fied, burning gaze of those spectral eyes of fire ' inggazea "'Mother, you must leave ne now," he said, lifting his head, and looking sorrowfully in her an rigid{, haggard face, " for the fv hours that is i left me, I would like to be alon. It is better forla us both that we part now."  "I will not,go!" said a voice 8so hollow, so unh niaturnal that it geemed to issue from the jaws of e er ,o   ;er- I death. "I will not go. aefy heaven and ery now." ou  "Mother, it is my wish," he said, calmly. ate  "Yours, Reginald?" she cried, in a voice of 'ou unutterable reproach. You wish that I should be leave you? For fifteen years I have given you ou up, and in one short hour you tire of me now. rid  Reginald, my son! my son!" ch  No words can describe the piercing anguish, u- the utter woe that rived that wild cry up from for her tortured heart. he He came over, and laid his small, delicate ur hand on hers, hard, coarse, and black with sun, r- wind, and toil. I  "Liscen to me, my mother 1"And his low, re calm, soothing tones were in strong contrast to her impassioned voice. '* I am not tired ofyou-. in you wrong me by thinking so; but I have letters ir to write, and many matters to arrange before to. y, morrow's sun rises. I am tired, too, and want t to rest; for it a long time since sleep has vis. ited my eyes, mother." d  "Sleep," she bitterly echoed, " and when do - you think I have slept? Look at these sunlkea , eyes, this' ghastly face, this haggard form, and o ask when I slept, Think of the mighty wrong I have suffered, and ask when I shall sleep again." "   My poor, unhappy mother 1"  t     "He can sleep," sUe broke out with a low, wild laugh. "O, yes! in his bed of down, with his princely son under tim same roof, with I menials to come at his beck, he can sleep. Yes he sleeps now but the hour comes when that sleep shall last forever! Then my eyes may close, but never before" " You are delirious, mother; this blow has turned your brain." She rose to her feet, her tall, gaunt fornr looming up in the shadowy darkness; her wild, black hair streaming disheveled down her back; her fierce eyes blazing with demoniacal light, onelong. long arm raised and pointing to heaven. Dark, fierce, and stern, she looked like some dread priestess of doom, invoking the wrati of Heaven on the world.. "Delirious am I?" she said, in her deep bells like tones,-that echoed strangely in the silent cell.  "If undying hate, if unresting vengeancel if revenge that will never be satiated but b his misery, be delirum, then I am  mad. I  leav you now, Reginald, since such is your command and remember, when far away, you leave one bel hind you who will wreak fearful vengeance for all we have both suffered." "  Mother, Lord De Courey is not so much to blame after all since he believes me guilty. i am not alarmed by your wild threats; for I know, in the course of time, this mad hate will grow less," "Nlever-never!" she fierdely hissed through her clenched teeth. "'May God forget' me If  ever forget my  vow! Reginald, i I thought;     that man could go to heaven, and I by some im- possibility could be saved too, I would take a dagger and send my soul to perdition, sooner than go there with him." Upturned in the red light of the lamp, her face, as she spoke, was the flce of a demon. "Strong hate, stronger than death!" he said half to himself, as he gazed on that fiendish face. "Farewell then, mother. Will you fulfill my last request?" "About your child?--yes." "Thank you, dearest mother. If so lost a wretch as I am, dare invoke heaven, I would ask its blessings on you." "Ask no blessing for me!" she fiercely broke in. "I would hurl it back in the face of the an- gels, did tley offer it." Folding her mantle around her, she knotted the handkerchief, that had fallen off, under her chin, and stood ready to depart. The young man went to the door, and knocked loudly. A moment after, the tramp of heavy feet was heard in the corridor approaching the door. "It is the jailor to let you out. Once more, good bye, mother." She was hard, and stern, and rigid now; and there were no tears in her dry, stony, burning eyes, as she turned to take a last farewell of the son she idolized-the son she might never see again. His eyes were dim, but her tears were turned to sparks of fire. Without a word she pressed one hot, burning kiss on, his handsome brow; and then the door opened, and she flitted out in the darkness like an evil shadow. The heavy door again swung to; the key turned in the look; the son was alone in his condemned cell; and the maniac mother, out once more in the beating rain and. chill night-wind, was lost in the great wilderness of mighty London. CHAPTER VII. THE MOTHER'S DESPAIR. "Go, when the hunter's hand hath wrung 'From forest-cave her shrieking young, And calm the lonely lioness- But soothe not, mock not, my distress."' -BTrOw. Away through the driving storm-through the deepening darkness of coming morn-through the long, bleak, gusty streets-through alleys, and courts, and lanes; whirled on like a leaf in the blast that knows not, cares not, whither it goes, sped the gipsy queen, Ketura. There were not many abroad at that hour; but those she passed, paused in terror, and gazed after the towering form, with the wild face and wilder eyes, that flew past like a lost soul returning to Hades. She stood on London bridge, and, lean- ing over, looked down on the black, sluggish waters beneath. Many lights were twinkling here and there upon the numerous barges rising and falling heavily on the long, lazy swell, but the river elsewhere lay wrapped in. the black-   ness of Tartarus. 'One plunge, she thought, as she looked over, and all this gnawing misery bhat seems eating her very vitals might be enld ed forever. One hand was laid on the rail-the next moment she might have been in eternity; but with the rebound of a roused tigress she 4prung back. Was it the thought of standing be- fore the judgment-seat of God with all her crime on her soul-of the long eternity of misery that nust follow-that appalled her? No, she would have laughed in scorn at these, but the remem- brance of her vow, of her oath of vengeance re- strained her. "No ;,I will live till I have wrung from his heart a tithe of the misery mine has felt," she tlought; -and then a dark, lowering glance on the black, troubled waters below, filled up the hiatus. Dusky forms, like shadows from the grave, were flitting to and fro, brushing past her as they went. Restlessly they flew on, as if under the friendly mantle of darkness alone they dared leave their dens. She knew who they were-the scum, the off-casts, the street-walkers of London; and she wondered vaguely, as she caught fitful glimpses of wild, pale faces, that gleamed for an instant in the light of the lamp, and then were gone, if any of them had ever felt anguish like to hers. While she stood clutching the parapet, a female form, in light, flowing garments, was borne on, as if by the night-wind, and stood gazing down into the gloony waters beside her. One fleeting glimpse she caught of a pale young, face, beautiful still, despite its look of unutter- able woe; and then, with a light rustle, some- thing went down, far down, into the waves be- neath. There was a sullen plunge, and the gipsy queen leaned over to see, By the light of one of the barge lamps she saw a darker shadow rise through the darkness to the surface. For an instant that white, wild face, glared above the black bosom of the Thames, and then disappear- ed forever; and with a hard, bitter smile, ter- rible to see, the dark, dread woman turned away. Away, again, through the labyrinth of the city, leaving that "Bridge of Sighs" far be- hind-away from the dark dens and filthy pur. lieus to the wider and more fashionable part oi the town, sped the gipsy queen. There could be no rest for her this last, sorrowful night, as if pursued by a haunting demon she fled on, as if she would escape from the insufferable misery that was gnawing at her heart; seeking for rest and finding it not. Clutching her breast fierce- ly at intervals, with her dark, horny fingers' as if she would tear thence the anguish that was driving her mad, she still flew on, until once again she found herself before the bril, liantly-lighted mansion of Earl de Courcy. Swelling on the night air, came borne to her eat strains of softest music, as if to mock her mis. ery. Gay forms went flitting past the windows,   and, at intervals, soft, musical peals of laughter mingled with the louner sounds of gayety. Folding her arms over her breast, the gipsy leaned against a lamp-post, and looked, with a steady smile, up at the illuminated "marble hall" before her. Her comm nding form, made more commanding by her free, fiery costume, stood out in bold relief, in the ligllt of the street-lamp. Her dark face was set with a look fairly terrifi in its intensity of hate. nd that smile curling her thin, colorless lips--Satin himself might have envied her that demoniacal smile of un- quenchable malignity! Moving through his gorgeous rooms, Earl de Courev dreamed not of tLe dark, vengeful glance that would, if it could, have pierced those solid walls of stone to seek him. And yet ever be- fore him, to mar his festivity, would arise the haunting memory of that convulsed face, those distended eye-balls, thos3 blanched lips, those upraised hands, pleading vainly for the mercy he could not grant. Anid all the glitter and v gayety of the brilliant 'cene around him, he could not forget the pleadings of that strong 1 heart in its strong agony. He thought little of  her threats -of her maledictions; yet, when  some hours later le missed his son from the gay  scene, dark thoughts of assassination-of the i unfailing, subtle poisons gipsies were so skillful in, arose before him; an. lie shuddered with a g vague presentiment of dr3ad. But his son had n returned safe; and now -he stately old noble- i man stood gayly chatting with a bevy of fair c ladies, who clustered rou id him like so many I gay, glittering, tropical butterflies.   r "Oh! she was positively the most delightful h old thing I ever saw!" exclaimed the gay voice I of gay little Miss Clara Jernyngham. "Just  like Hecate' in Macheth,' for all the world-the t very beau ideal of a delig'ltful Satanic old sor- u ceress I would have giv3n anything-my dia- t mond ring, my French poodle, every single one s of my lovers, or even a ' perfect love of a bon- t net'-to have had her tell my fortune. Ifairly dote on all those delightfully mysterious, en- bi chanting, ugly old gipsies who come poking p yound, stealing and telling fortunes. What in  the world did she want of you, my lord?" r" A shadow tell darkly over the brow of the fl earl for a moment, as he recollected that dark,  impassioned woman pleading for her only son; but it passed away as quickly as it came, and he t answered, with a smile: "To tell my fortune, o course, little bright- ea eyes. Am I not an enviatle man"      I "And did she really tell it 1 Oh, how delight- a ful I What did she say, niy lord?"t    tol "That I w as to propose to Miss Clara Jer- nyngham, who was to say, 'With pleasure, my in lord i'--that I was 'to indlge her with oves of bonnets' and French poodles to an unlimited t extent-,that--  "Now, I don't believe a word of it," said Miss    er Clara, pouting, while a peal of silvery laighter y. arose from the rest. "I wouldn't be a mere By countess at any price. I'll have a duca' ooro- a net, if I die for it! You know the old D ke of 1"B--, my lord?" she added, in a mysterious re whisper. "Well, he is not quite right in his id mind, poor man! and I am going to propose to p. him the very first chancel The family dia- ic monds are superb, and I will become them beau- g tifully, you know! This is strictly entre nous, it though; and if you don't tell, my lord, you a- shall have an invitation to the wedding, and drink my health in his grace's old wine!" e  And, with her pretty little face all dimpled e with smiles, Miss Clara danced away to a w'ndow I near, and lifting the heavy curtains, peeped out. -  The earl had bowed, and, with his hand on e his heart, had promised, with befitting gravity, to preserve the young lady's secret inviolate, and was now turning away, when a sudden ejao- rulation from Miss Clara's rosy lips brought him Iagain to her side. D  "O my lord! only look!" she cried, in a breathless whisper, pointing out. ' Thereis that dark, dreadful gipsy we were talking of, herself. Only look at that awful face; it is positively renough to make one's blood run cold. Could she have heard us, do you think, my lord P" IAt any other time, the gay little lady's undis- guised terror would have amused the earl; but now, with that dark, stern, terrible face gleam- ing like a vision from the dead, in the fitful light of the street-lamp, he felt his very blood cu dle. It rose before him so unexpectedly, as if she had risen from the earth to confront lim, that even his strong heart grew for a moment appalled Her tall form looming up unnaturally large i the uncertain light; her unsheltered head, on which the rain mercilessly heat; her steady, burring, unswerving gaze fixed on the very window wiere they stood-all combined, sent a thrill of terror, such as in all his life he had never felt before, to the very heart of the earl. She saw them as they stood there; for by the brilliant jets of light, his imposing- fort was plainly revealed in the large window. Slowly, like an inspired sybil of darkest doom, she raised one skinny hand, and,-whiie her long, flickering finger pointed upward, her omiroue gaze never for a single instant wandered from his face. So wild-so threatening was her look, that the shriek she had opened her moiith to utter, froze on little Miss Jernyngham's li s; and the earl, with a shudder, shaded his cees with his hands to shut out the weird sight. ne mor ent later, when he looked again, the dark, porten- tons vision was gone, and nothing met tis eye but the slanting rain falling on the vet, glitr ingpavement.  Slowl]  and reluctantly, as though unwilling to go, the clouds of night rolled sullenly bek, an mornin, with dark, shrouded fale andis mal fDg, broke over London.      I I     The crash, the din, the surging roar of busy life had commenced. The vast heart of the mighty Babel was throbbing with the unceasing stream of life. Men, looking like spectres, iL the thick, yellow fog, buttoned up in overcoats, and scowling at the weather, passed up and down the thronged thoroughfares. On the river. barges, yachts, and boats ran against each other in the gloom, and curses, loud and deep, from hoarse throats mingled with peals of gruff laugh- ter, from crowds of rowdy urchins on the wharves, who, secure in their own safety, seemed lIugely to enjoy the discomfiture of their fellow'hea- thens. The dark bosom of the sluggish Thames rose and fell calmly enough, telling no tales of all the misery, woe, and shame hidden forever under its gloomy waves. A large, black, dismal-looking ship lay moor- ed to one of the docks, and a vast concourse of people were assembled to witness the crowd of convicts who were to be borne far away from "Merrie Englhnd" in her' that morning. Two- by-two they came, chained together hand and foot, like oxen; and the long, gloomy procession wound its tortuous way to the vessel's side, amid the laughter, scoffs, and jeers of the crowd. Yet there were sad faces in that crowd, too-faces hard, rough, and guilt-stained-that grew sor- rowful as better men's might have grown, as some friend, son, husband, or brother went by, straining their eyes to take a last look at the land they were leaving forever. Now and then, some fair young face scarcely past boyhood would pass in the felon gang-faces hard to associate with the idea of guilt; but most were dark, sav- age, morose men, with scowling eyes and guilt- hardened looks-men inured to crime from their very infancy, and paying crime's just penalty now. At last came one 'who was greeted with an insulting cheer that rang to the very heavens. And "'Hurrah! for the gentleman gipsy!" "Hur- rah I hurrahI for the thief from Eton'!' rang out again and again, until the welkin rang. Proudly erect, with his fine head thrown back; his full, falcon eyes flashing with a scorn that made more than one scoffing gaze fall, walk- ed the son of the gipsy queen. Shout after shout of derision greeted him as 'he went on ; for the rabble ever hate those who, belonging to their own class, raise themselves above them. But when a woman--a wild, hag- gard, despairing woman-rushed through the crowd, and greeted him with'the passionate cry: "My son! O   my son -my son!" a silence like that of 'death fell over the vast throng. Un- heeding all around her, the gipsv Ketura would have forced her way to his side, but she was held back by those who had charge of the con- victs. And the dreary procession passed on its All was on board at last; and the vessel, with a fair wind, was moving away from the wharf. I   Y The crowd was dispersing; and the officer, at e last, who was guarding Ketura, moved away with g the rest, casting a coimupassionate glance on the - face white with woman's utmost woe. ,  Standing there, with straining eyeballs and : clenched hands, the wretched woman watched  the ship that bore away the son she so madly r loved. A sort of desperate hope was in her i heart; still, while it remained in sight, something * might intervene to restore him yet.4 With part- ,ed lips and heaving breast, she stood there, as y any other mother might stand, and watched the - sods piled .over her child's grave; and still she s would not believe he had gone forever.- At last T the vessel disappeared; the last trace of her white sails were gone; and then, with a terrific shriek that those who heard might never forget, she threw up both arms, and fell, in strong con- vulsions, to the ground. CHAPTER VIII. MR. TOOSYEGS "TURNS UP"AGAIN. "His looks do argue him replete with modesty." --SHAKSPERE. "Why, Mr. Harkins, it ain't possible, now!" exclaimed a struggling, incredulous voice. "Just to think we should meet again aftersuch a long time! I'm sure it's real surprising." Tie sleaker, a pale young man, with a pro- fusion of light hair and freckles, and a gaudy hand carpet-bag, was taking a stroll on the classic banks of the Serpentine, when suddenly espying a short, plethoric, gruff-looking, mas- culine individual coming toward him, he made a sudden plunge at him, and grasped his hand with an energy that was quite startling. The short individual addressed, withI a whole- some distrust of London pickpockets before his eyes, raised a stout stick he carried, with 'the evi- dent intention of trying the thickness of the pale young man's skull; but before it could come down, the proprietdr'of the freckles began, in a tone of mild expostulation: ". Why, Mr. Harkins, you, haven't forgotten me-have you? Don't you recollect the young man you brought to London in your wagon one rainy night? Why, Mr. Harkins, I'm 0. C. Toosypegs!" said the pale young man, in a slightly aggrieved tone. "Why, so hit be!" exclainled Mr. Harkins, brightening up, and lowering his formidable weap(,n. "Blessed if you 'adn't gone clean hout my 'end! Why, Mr. Toosypegs, this is the most surprisingest thing as ever was! I hain't seen you I don't care when!" "I'm very much obliged to you, Mr. Hark- kins,"' said Mr. Toosypegs, gratefullv. "I knew you'd be very glad to see me, and it's real kind of you to say so I hope Mrs. Harkiis and your infant family are all quite well, I thank you?" "Yes, they're hall among the middlin s,'" said Mr. Harkins, indifferently. "Mrs. Harkins 'as been and gone and 'ad the-what's this now?"   said Mr. Harkins, paus'ng, with knit brows, and scratching his head in perplexity. "Blessed! if I hain't clean forgot the name, it was ' tongs,' no-yes-it was 'tongs,' hand something else." "And poker," suggested Mr. Toosypegs, thoughtfully. "Mr. Toogypegs," said Mr. Harkins, facing round, fiercely. ;' I 'ope you don't mean for to hinsult a cove, do you?" "Why, Mr. Harkins!" remonstrated the aston- ished and aggrived Mr. Toosypegs. "I'm, sure I never meant any such thing I wouldn't insult you for all the world, 'or--or-" Mr. Toosy- pegs paused for a figure bf speech strong enough. ' For any amount of money, Mr. Harkins," added Mr. Toosypegs, warmly. "Well, it don't make no matter hif you did," said Mr. Harkins, cooling suddenly down. "But what his this Mrs. Harkins 'ad. Tongs-tongs. Oh, yes! tongs-will-eat-us! that's tlte name, Mr. Toosypegs. Mrs. Harkins had that," said Mr. Harkins, triumphantly. "Tonsilitus, perhaps," insinuated Mr. Toosy- pegs, meekly. "Well, hain't that wot I said?" exclaimed Mr. Ilarkins, rousing up again. "Hand my John Halbert, he's been and 'ad a Sarah Bell af- fection-1' "Cerebral," again ventured Mr. Toosypegs, humbly. "Well, hain't that wot I said?" shouted Mr Harkins, glaring savagey at the republican, who wilted suddenly down. "Blessed! if I hain't a good irnd to bring you a clip 'long side the ead, for your impererce in conterdicting me like this ore hevry time! Why, you'd perwoke a saint, so you woald!" exclaimed the outraged Mr. Hsrkins.  "Mr. Harkins, I'm sure I never meant to of- fend you, and I'm real sorry for your trouble," apologized Mr. Toosypegs, in a remorse-stricken tone. "Well, it wasn't no trouble," said Mr. Harkins, testily. "Cos he got ;ook to the 'orse-spittle for fear iany the rest hof the family would take it. Mary Harin, she go-, her feet wet, and took thne inn-flue-en-ways ; whot yer got to say agin that?" fiercely demanded Mr. Harkins Mr. Toosypegs, who Lad been muttering "a in- fluenza" to himself, anc chuckling inwardly, as he thought how he could correct Mr. Harkins, in his own mind, in spite of him was so com- pletely overpowered by this bristling question,  that the blood of conscous guilt rushed to his ' face, and Mr. O. C. Toosypegs stood blushing like a red cabbage. "Because if you've g t hanything to say agin  hit," went on Mr. Harkins, pointing one stubby  forefinger at society in general. 11"You 'ad bet-  ter let hit hout for a little hexercise, that's all. 1 Come, now!" I "Mr. Harkins, it's very kind of you to give me i permission, and I am very much obliged to you,"    I said Mr. Toosypegs, looking severely at a small boy who had a bold of his coat-tails behind. "But I hadn't the remotest ideaLof saying any- thing, whatever, against it. IPm sure it's per- fectly right and proper Mary Ann should have the influenza, if she wants to.  "AhL I I didn't know but what you might think' she 'adn't," said Mr. Ha-a'kins, blandly i "There wasn't hany tellin' you know, but whatl you might say a Hinglishman's 'oise wasn't his castle, and he couldn't 'ave whatever he lilies there. Well, the baby, he got the crook, which 'ad the melonchiolic heffec hof turning 'imr per- fectly black in the face." Mr. Toosypegs, though inwardly surmising Mr. Harkins meant the croup, thought it a very likely effect to be brought about by either. "Then Sary Jane took the brown skeeters, hand I 'ad the lum-beggar bin my hown back, but on the whole, we were all pretty well, thanky!" "I'm real glad to hear it," said Mr. Toosy- pegs, with friendly warmth. "I've been pretty well, myself since, too. I'm very much obliged to you." "Let's see, it's near a month, hain't it, since the night I took you to London?" said Mr. Har- kins. ' Three weeks and five days, exactly," paid Mr. Toosypegs, briskly. "I suppose you don't disremember the hold gipsy has we took bin that night-do you? 'I wias a stranger hand you took me bin.' That's in the Bible, Mr. Toosypegs," said Mr. Harkins, drawing down the corners of his mouth, and looking pious, and giving Mr. Toosypegs a dig in the ribs, to mark the beauty of the quotation. "Yes, Mr. Harkins, but not so hard, if you please-it hurts," said Mr. Toosypegs, with tears in his eyes, as he rubbed the place. "What does? that there piece bout the Bible?" said Mr. Harkins, with one of his sud- den busts of fierceness. "O0 Lor', no!" said the deeply-scandalized Mr. Toosypegs, surprised into protfarity by the enormity of the charge. "It's your clbow, Mr. Ilarkins, it hurts," said Mr. Toosypegs, with a subdued sniffle. "Humph!" grunted Mr. Harkins, " well hits hof no squenceyance, but you don't disremem- ber the hold gipsy-woman we took bin, do you?" "The one with the black eyes and short frock? Oh! I remember her," said, Mr. Toosypegs. "  I've never seen her since."- "  No, I shouldn't spose you 'ad," said Mr. Harkins, gruffly, '( seein' she's as mad ns a March 'are, down there with her tribe. Mysterious is the ways of Providence. You blamed little ras- cal! hif you do that again, I'll chuck you inter the Serpentine I blessed! hif I don't." His last sentence, which .began with a pious upturning of the whites, or rather the yellows, of Mr. Harkins' eyes, was abruptly cut short by a     depraved youth, who, turning a course of sum- mersaults for the benefit of his constitution, rolled suddenly against, Mr. Harkins' shins, and the next instant found himself whimpering and rubbing a portion of his person, where Mr. Har- kins had planted a well-applied kick. "The way the principuls of perliteness is neglected to be hinstilled hinto the mind of youths, now-a-days, is distressin' to behold," said'Mr. Harkins, with a grimace of pain; "but has I was a sayin' habout the hold gipsy queen, she's gone .erazy, hand "- (here Mr. :larkir s lowered his 'oice to a hoarse whisper)--4 she's went hand got a baby." "Do tellil' ejaculated Mr. Toosypegs, who saw it was expected of him to be surprised, and who, consequently, was, though he could not see any earthly reason foi it. "A baby," went :ot Mr. Harkins, who would have emphasized: his words by another dig in the ribs, but that Mr. Toosypegs dodged back in alarm;.        , nieal' baby,'alive-and kician'?" "Pshaw! it ain't possible "' said Mr. Toosy- pegs, in a voice betrayingnot. the slightest par- ticle of emotion. "It is-hincredulous. as it may sound, it's true," said Mr. Harkins, solennly, "The way I found hit hout was this: I was comin' halong 'ome, one night hafter brngiing hoff,a cove w'at got waylaid to Lunnon, a singin' to myself that there s6ng, the ' Roast Beef hof Hold Hiig- land,' hand a thinkin' no more 'arm, Mr. Toosy- pegs, noi a lot. hof young pigses goin' to mar- ket," said Mr. Harkins, giving his stick a grand flourish to mark this bold figure of speech. "Itwmasn't a dark night, Mr. Toosypegs, nor yet a light one ;,the starmes was8a shinin' like hevery- thing; when, hall hof -a suddinti, 'and was laid hon the reins,-hand a voice, so deep and orful- like hit made me fairly jump, said:  "'Will you let me ride hih your vagging has far hasiyou're going?.    . "I looked .round,Mr. TTosypegs,"? continued Mr. Harkins, in a huslty whisper, " and:tihere I seed .tlt. there gipsy- qteen, lookin' so dark, hand: ferce, handlwild-like, I nearly jumped elean hoqt the wigging.: Blessed! if I wasn't skeert! Just then I heerd a cry from: a bundle she'dgot' in hei atirms,'ihad what do you think I saw, Mr. Toosyrega?  ." The startling energy with which Mr. Harkins, earried. away by the excitement of his story, asked this question, so discomposed the mild young man with the freckles, that he gave a sudden jump back; and glanced in terror at the narra4or's, elbow.  "Really, Mr. Harkins, I don't know, I'm sure," said Mr. Toosypegs, grasping his carpet-bag, nervously.    . "A baby!" said Mr. Harkins, in the same mysterious, husky whispet; * a baby, Mr; Toosy- pegs? Now, the question his, where did that there baby aome from?     .    Mr. Harkins gave his hat a slap on the crown, for emphasis, and, resting both hands on the top of his stick, came to a sudden halt, and 1 looked Mr. Toosypegs severely in the face. "A-.-really, Mr. Harkins-' -a-I hadn't the remotest idea,",said Mr. Toosypegs, blushing to the very roots of his hair. "I hope you don't f suspect me-'"  : "Bah!" interrupted Mr. Hiarkins, with a look of disgust; "nobody hever said nothin' about ou! Well, Mr. Tooypegs, I took her hin, has she- asled, and- brought her along has far has my 'ouse, where Missus 'Arkins gave, her some- thing to eat for the little 'un, which was has fine a little fellow has. you'd wish'to see. Then she went hoff, and the next week we heard she'd gone and went crazy." "Poor thing!  Why, I'm real sorry, Mr. Harkins. I lare say she was a real nice old lady, if she'd been let alone," said Mr. Toosy- pegs, in a tone of commiseration. ' Why, who tetched her?" said Mr. Harkins, testily. "Well, they went and transported her son and I'm sure it wasn't right at all, when he did not want togo- She looked real put out-about 'it that night, herself, too." "S'pose you heerd her son was drownded?" "Yes; I saw it in the papers, and I was real sorry-I really was. Mr. Harkins, I dare say you was, too."  Mr. Harkins grunted. All hands was lost, wasn't they?" aid Mr. Harkins, after h short pause.  "Yes; all hands and feet," Mr. Toosypegs, venturing on' a weak joke; but, catching the stern look of-Mr. Harkins, at this unbecoming levity, he instantly grew serious again; " the ship struck agninst something-" ," A mermaid," suggestod Mr. Harkins. "Mr. Ilarkins,; Im very much obliged to you, but it wasn't a mermaid, it was a coral reef -that's the name-and went to the bottom with all hands and the cook." "'Which is a melancholic picture hof 'the treacheerousness hof the locean," said Mr. Har- kins, in a moralizing tone, " hand should be a severe' warning to hall, when they steal, not to let themselves get tooken hup, lest they be -ooken down a peg or'two, hafter." "But you know, Mi. Htarkins, it's been found out sii'ce he wasn't the one who'stole the plate, iat all. That man they arrested for murder, and tle going to hang, confessed he did it. I'm sure you might have seen it in the papers, Mr Earkins." "I don't putt no faith bin the papers, myself," suid Mr. Harkiins, in a severe tone; "they hnin't 'to be believed, none of emni. Hif they says one thing, you may be sure hit's just hexactly the to .her. That there's my opionion." "But, Mr. Harkins, look heie," said Mr. Tc osypegs, deeply impressed with this profound     view of the newspaper press in general, "I dare say that's/true enough, and it's real sensible of you o say so; but in this case it must be true. Why, they're going to hang 'the man, Mr. Har- kins, and he confessed he did that, dong with ever so many other unlawful things. I wonder if hanging hurts much, Mr. Harkins?" said Mr. Toosypegs, involuntarily loosening his neck- cloth, as he thought of it. "Well, I don't know," returned Mr. Harkins, thoughtfully, '"I never was 'anged myself, but I had a cousin who married a vidder." Here, Mr. larkins, taking advantage of a moment's unguarded proximity, gave Mr. Toosypegs a facetious dig in the ribs, which caused that ill- used young gentleman to spring back with some-Ahing like a howl. "You don't know how sharp your elbow is,  Mr. Earkins; and my ribs re real thin. I ain't used to such treatment, and it hurts," said Mr. Toosypegs, with whom this seemed to be the climax of wrong, and beyond which there was  no proceeding further.  "' I have lleerd it was honly their shins as was  tender hin Hamerica," said Mr. Harkins. "Wlen are you goin' back to Hamerica, Mr. Toosy-  pegs"                   J '* Not before a vear-perhaps two," said Mr. Toosypegs, brightening suddenly up. "And I  tell you what, Mr. Harkins, America is a real nice place, and I'll be ever so glad to get back t to it. There was the nicest people round where we lived that ever was," went on Mr. Toosy- pegs. getting enthusiastic. "There was Judge Lawless, up at Heath Hill; and old Admiral  Havenful, at the White Squall, and lots of other  folks. Where I lived was called Dismal Hollow,  owing to be being encircled by huge black  rocks on all sides, and a dark pine forest on the t other." "Pleasant place it must 'ave been," said Mr. ri Harkins, with a strong sneer.       i "'Well, it wasn't so pleasant as you might 'a think," seriously replied Mr. Toosypegs, on w whom his companion's sarcasm was completely le thrown away; " the sun never shone there; and 1 as Dismal Creekl that run right before the T houss, got swelled up every time it rained, the tv hous always made a point of getting flooded, m and ,o we lived most of the time in the attic in the. pring. There were runaway-niggers in the s wooc 8, too, who used to steal and do a good II many other nasty things, so it wasn't safe to go I out at night, but, on the whole, it was pretty al pleasant." "Wot ever made you leave sich a nice H place?" said Mr. Harkins, with a little sup-  pressed chuckle.              ki ",Why, Mr. Harkins, I may tell you as a at friend, for I know you won't mention it again," n" said Mr; Toosypegs, lowering his voice to a a deep y-confidential and strictly private cadence. gi "My pa:died when I was a little shaver about   so-year-old, and ma and I were pretty poor, to be candid about it. Well, then, three years ago my ma died, too, which was a serious affliction to me, Mr. Harkins, and I was left plunged in i deepest sorrow and poverty. The niggers r worked the farm, and I was employing my time in cultivating a pair of whiskers to alleviate my grief when I received a letter from an uncle here in England, telling me to come right on, and, if , he liked me, he'd make me his heir when he died, which was real kind of him. That's what ,. brought me here, Mr. Harkins; and I'm stop- I ping with my uncle and his sister, who is an un- married woman of forty-five; or so." "Hand the hold chap's 'live yet?" inquired Mr. Harkins. "Mr. Harkins, my uncle, I am happy to say, still exists," answered Mr. Toosypegs, gravely. "Humph! 'As he got much pewter, Mr. Toosypegs?" "Much what?" said the mild owner of the. freckles, completely at a loss. "You'll excuse me, I hope, Mr. Harkins, but I really don't un. derstand." "Green," muttered Mr. Harkins, contemptu- ously to himself. Then aloud: "'Ow much do you think he'll leave you?" "Well, about two thousand pounds or so," said Mr. Toosypegs, complacently. "Two-thousand--poun'!" slowly articulated the astounded Mr. Harkins. "O my heye -- w'y, you'll be rich, Mr. Toosypegs! What will you do with all that there money?" "Whiy, my aunt, Miss Priscilla Dorothea Toosypegs, and I are going home to Maryland (that's where I used to live, Mr. Harkins), and we're going to fit up the old place and live there. Aunt Priscilla never was in America, and wants to see it real bad." "Two-thousand-poun'," still more slowly repeated Mr. Harkins. "Well, things is 'ston- ishing. Jvst think hof me now, the honest and 'ard-workiing father of ten children, hand you won t catch nobody going hand dying hand leaving me one single blessed brass farden, while here's a cove mo'e'n 'alf a hass. I say, Mr. Toosypegs, you wouldn't lend me a guinea or two, would you?" insinuated Mr. Harkins in his most incredulous voice. "Why, certainly, Mr. Harlins," said Mr. Too- sypegs, briskly, drawing out his purse. "I'm real happy to be able to be of service to you Here's two guineas, and don't put yourself out about paying it." "Mr. Toosypegs; you're a brick '" said Mr. Harkins, grasping his hand with emotion. "I won't put myself hout in the least, since you're kind enough td' request it; but hif you'llcome and dine witl me some day, I'll give you a din ner of b'iled pertaters and roast hinions fit for a king. Will you come?" urged Mr. Harkins, giving him a friendly poke with his forefinger. "Certainly I will, Mr. Harkins; and it's real     kind in you to ask me," said Mr. Toosypegs, politely. "I see you're in a hurry, so 11 bid you good-day, now. Most certainly I'll come, Mri Harkins. I'm very much obliged to you." CHIAPTER IX. THE SECRET REVEALED. I was so young-I loved him so--I had' No mother-God forgive me!--and I fell!" -BROWNING. And how fell the news of Reginald Germaine's innocence of the crime for which he was con- demned, and his sad end, on the other person- ages connected with our tale? To his mother came the news in her far-off greenwood home  and as she heard he had per- ished forever in the stormy sea, Reason, already tottering in her half-crazed brain, eittirely gave way, and she fled, a shrieking maniac, through the dim, old woods. To Earl de Courcy it caine in his stately home, to fill hia heart with deepest sorrow and remorse. Hauitingly before him arose the ago nized, despairing face of the lonely woman, as on that last night she had groveled at his feet, shrieking for that mercy he had refused. Proud, stern man as he was, no words can express, the deep pity, the heartfelt sorrow he 'felt, as lie thoght of that lonely, despairing, childless woman, a wanderer over the wide world. To Lord Ernest Villiers it came, bringing deepest regret for the bold-eyed, high-hearted youth, so unjustly condemned, so wrongly ac- cused. He thought of him as he knew him first-proud princely, handsome, and generous. And now! that young life, under the uinjust centence of the law, had passed away ; that haughty head, noble even in its degradation, lay far under the deep sea, among the bleaching bones of those guilt-hardened men. To one, in her father's castle halls, it came, bringing a feeling of untold relief. 'ie had cruelly wronged her4 but he was dead now, and she freely forgave him for all she hail suffer*d. While he lived, incurable sorrow must be hers; but he was gone, and happy days might dawn for her yet. She might love another now, with- out feeling it a crime to do so-one noble and generous, and worthy of her in every way. One., deep breath of relie?, one low sigh to the mem- ory of his sad fate, and then a look of calm, deep happiness stole over the beautiful face, such as it had not worn for vars, and tlihe beautiful head, with its wealth o( raven ringlets, dropped on her arm, in a voiceless thanksgiving, in a joy too intense for words. And this was Lady Maude Percy In spite of her steady refusal of his suit, Lord Villiers had not despaired. He could not under- stand the cause of her strange melancholy and persistent refusal of her hand, knowing. as lie did, that she loved him, hut, believing the ob- stacle to be merely an imaginary one, lie hoped   on, and waited for the time to come when this singular fancy of hers would be gone. That time had come now. Callinig, one morn- ing, and 'finding her in the drawing-room, he was greeted with a brilliant smile, with a quick flush of pleasure, and a manner so different ronom her customary one,that his heart bounded. with sudden hope. "I am truly rejoiced to see Lady Maude re- covering her spirits again," he said, his fine eyes lit up with pleasure. "' She has been slhabowed by the dark clcu'd of her nameless melancholy long enough." "If Lord Villiers only knew how much cause I had for that ' nameless melancholy,' lie would forgive me any pain it many ever have caused him," she said, while a shaoow of the past fell darkly over her bright young face. "1 And' may I not know I Dearest Maude, whlen is this mystery to end? Am I nlever to be made happy by the possession of this dear hand?' lie took the little, white hand, small and snowy as a lily-leaf, and it wnas i;o loigcr with- drawn, but nestled lovingly in liis, as if there it found its, rightful home. t' Maude, Maude!" he cried, in a delirium ol joy, "is your dark dream, th, n, in reality over? O Maude, speak, and tell me! Ani I to Le made happy yet?" ' If you can take me as I am, if you can for, give and forget ile nast, I ant yours, Eri cst " shb said, in a thrilling whisl cr. -n a  (,mom(nt she was in his arms, held to the true lieart nhLose every throb was for ler--l:er liead upon the breast that was to pillow hers through, life. ".Maude, Maude! lMy bride, my life, my peerless darling! O Maude, this is too much happiness!" he .cried, in a sort of Iranspcrt be- tween the passionate kisses pressed on her warm, yieldiing lips. Blushingly she rose from his embrnce, and gently extricated herself from his aims. "O  Maude, my .beautiful darling! May Heaven forever bless you for this!" lie fervent- ly exclaimed, all aglow with passionate love. She had sunk into a seat, and bent her head into her hand, not daring to meet the full, fal- cor gaze, flashing with deepest tenderness, that. she knew was bent upon her. ' Speak again, Maude! Once more let me hef,r tlhose precious words from your own sweet lips, .Maude! Maude, sweetest and fairest, speak!"'. He wreathed his arms around her, while lie seemed breathing out his very soul as he aspi- rated her name. "But yon have not heard all, my lord. This secret-do you not wish to hear it?" she faintly said, without lifting her dark, beautiful eyes., "Not unless it is your wish to tell' it. I want to hear nothing but that you are my own."   S'et, when you hear it, my lord, you may reject the hand I have offered. "Never, never! Nothing under heaven could map!e me do that 1" G"You speak rashly, Lord Ernest. Wait until you have heard all. I dare not accept the no- Ibo heart and hand you offer, without revealing ;ti. iue great error of my youth." "'iou commnit error, my beautiful saint? You, who are as perfect in soul as in body. 0 Maude, I cannot believe it." "It is true, nevertheless, my lord. But oh, how shall I tell you? How can I confess what I have been-what I am?" There was a sharp agony in her voice, and her head dropped on her hands, and her fair bosom rose and fell like a tempest-tossed sea. Encircling her with his arm, he drew her down until her white face lay hidden in his breast, and then pressing his lips to the dark ripples of hair swedping against his cheek, he murmured, in tenderest whisper: "Tell me now, Maude, and fear not; for nothing you can say' will convince me' you are not as pure and unsullied as the angels them- selves. What is this terrible secret, sweetest love?" "O my dear lord, every word you speak. every caress you give me, makes my revelation thie harder!" she passionately cried. "And yet it must be made, even though you should spurn inme from you in loathing alter. Listen, my lord. You think me Lady Maude Percy?" "Yes, dear love." "That is not my name!" "What, Maude?" "That is not my name. No; I am not mad, Lord Villiers, though you look as if you thought so. I have been mad once! You and all the whrld are deceived. I am not what I seem." "What, in Heaven's name, do you mean? What, then, are you?" ': I was a wife! I I have been a mother! I am a widow!" "Maude!" "You recoil from me ,n Horror! I knew it would be so. I deserve it-I deserve it! but 0 Lord Villiers, i; will kill me!" she cried, pas- sionately wringing her hands. "Maude, are you mad?" "I am not--oil, I am not! if a grief-crazed brain, a blighted life, a broken heart be not madness." "But, Maude! ,Good heavens! You are so young --not yet eighteen! Oh, it cannot be true!" he cried, incoherently. "Would to God it were not! Yet four years ago I was a wedded wife!" -"Wife, mother, and widow  at eighteen? Maude, Maude-how can I realize this?" "Oh, I was crazed! I was mad! and I did love him so, then! Not as I love you, Lord Ernest, 'with a woman's strong, undying affectionu but   'with the wild, passionate fervor of youth. I muat have inherited my dead mother's Spanish bloati; I for no calm-pulsed English girl ever felt love like that." I  "O Lady Maude!-Lady Maude   I could hardly have believed a messenger from Heaven had lie told me this." "God be merciful to human error! A long ! life of sorrow and remorse must atone for that , first rash fault." He was pacing up and down the long room with rapid, excited strides; his fine face flushed, and his hands tightly shut, as if to keep down the bitterness that rebelliously rose at this 'un- looked-for avowal. He had expected to hear some light, trivial fault, magnified by a morbid imagination; but not a clandestine marriage. No man likes to hear that the wouman he loves has ever loved another; and Lady Maude Per- cy had already seemed so angelic, that this sud- den "falling off" of his high ideal, brought with it a pang like the bitterness of death. And therefore, pacing up and down-up and' down, with brain and heart in a tumult-Lord Ernest Villiers' pride for one moment overcame atnd mastered his love. For one brief moment only-for then his eyes fell on the drooping figure nnd despair-bowed young head ; and the anguished attitude went to his heart, bringing back a full tide of pity, love, and forgiveness. All was forgotten, but that she was the only one he ever did or could love; and lifting the sor- rowful head and grief-bound form in his arms, once more he clasped her closer to the manly young heart she could feel throbbing under her own, and whispered: "My own life's darlint still O Maude! if you must grieve, it shall be on my breast. If you have erred, so, too, have [-so have we all, often. I will forget all but that you have promised my arms should be your home for- ever 1"                I "And you forgive and love me stilD O L6rd Ernest!" He kissed away her tears as she wept alouC. "OOne thing more, dearest. Who was ry Maude's first love?" H-e felt a convulsive shiver run through tie delicate form- he held. He felt her breLst heave and throb as if the name was struggling to leave it, and could not. "Tell me, Maude; for I must know." "O Saints in Heaven I how can I? O Lo :d Ernest! this humiliation is more than I can endure." "Speak, Lady Maude I for I must know."' she lifted her eyes to his, full of unspeakable anguish, and then dropped her head heavily again; for in that fixed, grave, noble face, flI of love and pity as it was, there was no yielding now. "Tell me, Maude, who was the husband of your childhood?"     iFrom the pale, quivering lip, in a dying whis- per, dropped the words: Reginald Germaine, the gipsy!" / There was a moment's death-like silence. The handsome face of Lord Ernest Villiers seemed turned to marble, and still motionless, as if expiring, she lay in the arms that clasped her still in a close embrace. At last: "' Heaven be merciful to the dead I Look up, my precious Maude; for nothing on earth shaA ever come between us more!" Calm and clear, on the troubled wave of her tempest-tossed soul, the low words fell; but onlyhler deep, convilsive sobs were his answer. "' Maude!-my o n dear Maude!" he cried at last, alarmed by her passion of grief, "cease this wild weeping. Forget the troubled pas-, dear love; for there are many happy days in store for us yet." But still she wept on-wildly, vehemently, -t first -until her strong passion of grief had passed away. He let her sob on in quiet now, with no attempt to check her grief, except by hfs silent caresses. She lifted her head and looked up, at last, thanking him by a radiant look, and the sofi, thrilling clasp of her white arms. "I will not ask you to explain now, sweet Maude," he softly whispered. "Some other time, when you are more composed, you shall tell me all."' "No-no; better now-far better now; and then, while life lasts, neither you nor I, Ernest, will ever breathe one word of the dark, sor- rowful story again. O Ernest! can all the fond- est love of a lifetime suffice to repay you for the forgiveness you have shown me to-day?" "I am more than repaid now, dear love. Speak of that no more. But now that the worst is over, will my Maude tell me all?" I have not much to tell, Ernest; but you shall hear it. Nearly three years before yoiu and I met, when a child of fourteen, I was on a visit to my Uncle Everly's. My cousin Hubert, home from college, brought with him a fellow- student to spend the vacation, who was present- ed to me as Count Germaine. What Reginald Germaine was then, you who have seen him dc not need to know. Handsome, dashing, fasci- nating, he took everyheart by storm, winning love by his gay, careless generosity, and respect by his talents and well-known daring. I was r dreamy, romantic school-girl; and in this bold. reckless boy, handsome as an angel, I saw the living embodiment of my most glorious ideal. Fpom morning till night we were together and, Ernest, can you understand that wild dream? How I loved him then, words are weak to ex-  press, how I loathed and despised him after no words can ever tell. Ernest, he persuaded me to elope with him one night; and we were mar- ried. I never stopped to think of the conse- quences then. I only knew I would have given I,     -       up my hopes of heaven for him! Three weeks longer he remained at Everly Hall; and then papa sent me back to school, and. he went to London. "No one was in our secret, and we met fre- quently, unsuspected; though papa, thinking he was too presuming, had forbidden me to as- sociate with him. One day we went out driving; the carriage was upset, I fainted; and for a long time I remembered nothing more. "When reason returned, I was in a little cot- tage' nursed by an old woman; while he hov- ered l,y my bed-side night and day. Then I learned that I had given birth to a child-dead and buried now. I could recollect myself, as peo- ple recollect things in a confused dream-ofllear- ing for a time the feeble cries of an infant, and see- ing a baby face, with the large, black, beautiful eyes of Reginald Germaine. I turned my face to the falland wept, at first, in childish grief; but he caressed. and soothed me, and I soon grew calm. I thought, at the time, a strange, unaccountable change had come over him; though I could not tell what. When I was well, again, I learned. Standing before me, one morn- ing, he calmly and quietly told me how lhe, had deceived me-that, instead of being a French count, he was the son of a strolling gipsy; but that, having repented of what he had done, he was willing to give me up. "The very life seemed stricken out of my heart as I listened. Then my pride-the aroused pride of my race-arose; and, oh! words are weak to tell how I loathed myself and him. That I, a Percy-the daughter of a race that had mated with royalty hitherto-had fallen so low as to wed a gipsy I shrank, in horror un- speakable, from the black, bottomless quagmire into which I had sunk. All my love in that in- stant turned to bitterest scorn, and I passion- ately bade him leave me, and-never dare to come near me again, or breathe a word of the past. He obeyed; and from that day I never beheld him more. "' After that, I met you, Lord Ernest, and I loved you as I never loved him. For him, I cherished a blind, mad passion; for you, I felt the strong, earnest love of womanhood. You loved me; but I shrank from the affection my very soul was crying out for, knowing I dared not love you without guilt. Now you know the secret of my coldness and mysterious melan- choly. "I heard often of Germaine; and his name was like a spear-thrust to my heart. When I was told of his arrest, trial, and condemnation for grand larceny, you perhaps may imagine, but I can never tell, exactly what I felt. His name was the theme of every tongue; and day after day I was forced to listen to the agonizing de- tails, knowing-low as he had fallen, guilty as hl might be-he was my husband still. Thank God I through' all his ignominy, he had honor  'i   enough never to reveal our dark secret. Then came the news of his death; and Heaven for- give me, if my heart bounded as I heard it  4"' Lord Ernest! you were my first thought. I felt I could dare to love you now as you de- served to be loved, without sinning. I deter- mined to tell you all, and to love you still, even though you spurned me from you forever. O Ernest! my noble-hearted! may God forever bless you for forgiving me as you have done, and loving me still!" Her voice ceased, but the dark, eloquent eyes were full of untold love-of love that could never die for all time." "My own!-my own! never so well beloved as now! My Maude!-my 'bride!-my wife! blot out from the leaves of your life that dark page-that year of passion, of error, of sorrow and shame. We will never speak or think of it more, sweet Maude. Germaine has gone to an- swer for what he has done, if he has sinned while living, so also he has deeply suffered and sorrow-atoned for all. Fiery, passionate, anal impulsive, if he has wronged others, so also has he ;been deeply wronged. May God forgive him!"  "Amen," was the solemn response. "And now, Maude, what need of further de- lay? When shall this dear hand be mine?" "Whenever you claim it, dear Ernest. I shall have no will but yours now," she answer- ed, with all a woman's devotion in her deep eyes. "I am yours-yours through life, and beyond death, if I may." CHAPTER X. THE VOICE OF COMNG DOOM. "They spake not a word, But like dumb statues or breathless stones, Stared on each other and looked deadly pale." I -SHAKSPEBE. "Oh! positively, your ladyship is looking per- fectly dazzling! I never, no, never saw anybody half so beautiful in my lifl I O Lady Kate I isn't she charming?"And little Miss Clara Jernyngham, in an outhurst of enthusiasm, earn- estly clasped her little white hands, flashing with jewels, together, and went off into a look of ecstasy wonderful to behold. Lady Kate McGregor, the proud, dark-eyed daughter of an impoverished Scottish noble- man, smiled quietly as she said: "Lady Maude is always lovely, and like all brides, looks doublyso, now. How many of the gentlemen will envy Lord Villiers, to-night!" "Yes, indeed!" exclaimed Miss Clara, earn- ealy. "I am quite sure if I was a man (which, thank the gods! I am not), I would be tempted to shoot him, or do something else equally dreadful, for carrying off the reigning belle I really don't see how any man in his proper senses could help falling in love with Maude. i And yet there's brother George, now, he takes   I it as coolly as-as-I don't know what." The usual fate of Miss Clara's similes. Had Miss Jernyngham's eyes not been so earnestly fixed on a certain superb set of dia- monds that lay on a dressing-table near, she might have seen a sudden flush in the dark, handsome face of Lady Kate as she spoke, and that the lace on her bosom fluttered percepti- bly, as if with the beating of the heart beneath. "So Captain Jernyngaim does not caret" said Lady Kate, in a voice not quite steady. "No," answered Miss Clara, her eyes dancing from the blinding river of diamond-light on tle table to a magnificent bridal-vail lying near- "no; which is a horrid proof of his insensibili- ty. The fact is, George never was in love in his life, and never will be. as far as I can see. He will, most likely, die an old bachelor, if some rich heiress does not take pity on him, marry him, and pay his debts, before long. Did you see the Duke of B--  this evening, though, Lady Kate? What a dear old creature it is! Going about shaking so, like a lot of blanc mange. I'm going to marry him some day, for the family diamonds. Worth while, eh?" "Miss Jernyngham is herself the best judge of that," coldly replied Lady Kate, her hand- some face growing proud and pale, as she lis- tened to Miss Clara's speech about her brother. "Really, Lady Maude, it's my duty to tell you you are looking perfectly bewildering to- nightas all brides should look. If Lord Vil- liers had never been in love with you before, he must certainly have fallen into that melancho- ly predicament this evening," said little Miss Clara, dancing off on a new tack. "This or- ange-wreath and bridal-vail are vastly becom- ing. I am sure, no one would think you had been ill this morning, to look at you now." i It was a pleasant scene on which the light of the rose-shaded chandelier fell. The superbly- furnished dressing-room of Lady Maude Pery was all ablaze with numberless little jets of flame, which the immense mirrors magnified fourfold. Priceless jewels lay carelessly strewn about on the inlaid dressing-table, mingling with rare bouquets, laces, gloves, and tiny satin slippers, that would scarcely have fitted Cinde- rella herself, Lady Kate McGregor, proud and stately, in white satin, and point lace, and pale, delicate pearls, stood leaning against the mar- ble mantel, her handsome eyes growing cold and scornful whenever they rested on Miss Clara Jernyngham. That frivolous little lady, quite bewildering in the same snowy robes, was all unconscious of those icy glances, as she flutter ed, like a butterfly over a rose, around another lady standing before a full-length mirror, while her maid arranged the mist-like bridal-vail on her head, and set the orange-wreath on her dark, shining curls.              I It was Lady Maude Percy; and this was her l     bridal-eve.: Peerlessly lovely she looked as she stood there, with the light of a happy hea:t flushing her rounded cheeks, swelling her white bosom, and flulhing from her dark, Syrian eyes. The bridal-dress sile wore was worth a duke's ransom. It tell around her like a summe.- cloud, three glistening folds of richest lace, so light, 8so gauzy, so brilliant, that it. looked like a flashing mist. Diamonds that blinded tile eyes with their insufferable light: rose and fell on her white bosom with every tumultuous throb of the heart beneath. Like a floating- cloid, fell over all the bridal-vail, and glittering above it rose the orange-wreath of ratrest jewels. There was a streamingl light in her niagnificer-t eyes, a living, glowing flush on her cheek; all unusual there; and little Miss Clara stood up aid clasped her hands as she gazed in speecL-, less admiration. It was one month after the interview recorE- ed in the last chapter. Lord Villiers, with a lover's impatience, would consent to wait ro longer;, and as Lady Maude had not opposed hini, this day had been fixed. Tle marriage was to have taken place at St. George's, in the morning ; lht enarly that eventful day, the brice had been seized with so severe a headache, thlt t sle was unable to leave her room. Therefore, the ceremony had been necessarily delayed un- til the evening, when the august bishop of C--, himself, was to come and perform tLe nuptial rite at the Percy mansion. Some were inclined to look upon this interruption in tLe light of 'an evil omen but Lady Maude only smlled, and inwardly thought that, as his bride, nothing on earth could ever darken her life more. How little did she dream of the bitter cup of sorrow she was destined yet to drain to the dregs! How little did she dream of the dark, scatihing, unresting revenge that hovered around her like a vulture waiting for its prey  The old earl, her father, who was somewhat old-fashioned in his notions, and liked ancient customs kept up, had determined his daughter's bridal should be celebrated by the grandest ball of the season. "I don't like this new-fangled way young people now-a-days lhave, of getting married in the morning, coming home for a hasty break- fast, and then tearing off, post-haste, for France, or Germany, or somewhere, as if they wanted change of sceneore to reoncile them to what they lhave done," said the old gentleman, in strict y confidence, to Lord De Courcy. "It wasn't so ; in my time. Then we had all our friends as- i sembled, and enjoyed ourselves together over a 1 bottle or two of old wine until morning. Ah! i those were the days." And the old earl heaved ' a deep sigh, and looked ruefully at his gouty ( foot. Resolving, therefore, to keep up those halcy- i on days at all hazards, the great saloons of the c stately hall were thrown open, and now they b . ,   e I were filled with the elite of the city, all waiting t impatiently for the coming of the bride. e  Lord Hugh De Courcy, suave, stately, court- e. eous, and bland, was there, conversing with the s father of the bride and two or three of the most - distinguished politicians,of the day-his eyes now and then i; n a luring from the faces of his friends, to rest \pjioudly on the handsome form of his son, whb, in the absence of Lady Maude, I was the cynosure of all eyes, the " observed of all observers." The venerable and high-salaried bishop, at- tended by several other "journcyman soul-sav- ers, as Captain George Jernynghain irrever- ently called them, was there, too, in full pontifi- cals, all ready, and waiting to tie the Gordian knot. The rooms were filled with the low hum \f conversation. There was waving of fans, and flirting of bouquets, and dropping of handker- chiefs, and rustling silks and satins, and flash- ) ing of jewels, and turning of many bright, im- patient eyes toward the door where the bride and her attendants were presently expected to make their appearance. Ladies coquetted, and flirted, and turned masculine heads with bril- lant smiles and entrapcing glances, and gentle- man bowed and complimented, and talked all sorts of nonsense, just like gentlemen in gener- al, and all things went " merry as a marriage bell." Standing by themselves, as when we first saw them, were Lord Ernest Villiers and his friend, Captain Jernyngham, of the Guards, Handsome, stately, and noble, Lord Villiers always looked; but more so now than ever. What man does not look well whien happy, fault- less in costume, and about to be married to tlhe woman he loves?  Captain Jernyngham, first groomsman, etc., was also looking remarlably well-a fact of which the young gentleman himself was well aware; and lounging in his usual listless atti- tude against a marble column, he languidly ad- mired :his aristocratically small foot inits shin- ing boot. "There are some men born to good luck, just as others are born to be haneed"-he was saying, with the air of a man delivering an oration- "born with a silver spoon in their mouths, to use. a common, but rather incredible figure of speech. You, mi lor Villiers, are one of them ; you were born above the power of Fortune- consequently, the toadying jade shows you a face all smiles, and gives the cold shoulder to poor devils like nie, who really stand in need of her good graces. This world's a humbug! Virtuous poverty, illustrated in the person of Captain George Jenvngham, is snubbed and sent to Coventry, while potent, rich, and de- praved youths like you, are borne along on beds  of roses. Yes, I repeat it, the world's a hum- bug! society's a nuisance! friendship's a word   t   of two syllables found in dictionaries, nowhere else! an;' cigars, kid gloves, and pale ale are the only thngs worth living for. There's an opinioa as is an olinion.'" Oh, colic now, Jernvnham! things are by no means so desperatecas you would have me beliuve," saiAl Lorl Villiers, laughing. "Young, good-looking, alln adored by the ladies, what moir would you have?" "Well, there is a vulgar prejudice existing in favor of bicad and butter, and neither of the three items mentioned will exactly supply me with that useful article. I intend trying the matrimnonial dodge, someday, if I can pick up  anything under fi'ty, with three or four thousand a year, who wants a nice youth to spend it for her." "Love, of course, being out of the question?" "Love!" said the guardsman, contemptuous- ly. "I lost all faith in that article since I was fourteen years old, when I fell in love with our -cook, a young lady of six-and-thirty. My fath- er forbade the banns; she ran off with a hump- backe1 chmney-sweep, and I awoke to the un- pleasant consciousness that 'Love's young dream' was all bosh."  "And you have been heart-whole ever since?" "We1ll, I rather think so. I have felt a pe-  culiar sensation under my vest-pocket now and I tlen, when Kate McGregor's black e\es mllet I 'mine. But p;maw! wht1re's the use of talking?  Sli 's as pior a a church-mouse so am I; and I unless we should set-'p a chandler's shop, there m would be a paragraph in the Times headed: c '- Melancholy deatl by starvation. The bo lies t of an .unfortunlate couplc were found yesterday 1 inl the attic of a'rickety, six-story house, and the n coroner's inquetst returned a verdict of ' Dcath v for want of something to eat. The unfortunate o man was dressed in a pair of spurs and a mili-  tary shakoi-having pawned the rest of his cloth- a ing, and held in his hand the jugular bone of a red herring half devoured.' Not any, thank you!".  Captain George stroked his moustache com- il placently, wlile Lord Villiers laughed. "A pleasant picture that! Well, I shouldn't wonder if it's what' love in a cottage' often comes to."  A servant approached at this moment, and whispered slomething to Lord Villiers.   w "Thi ladies are vaiting, Jenyngham," be g sai    .    Howard, astily. "  Ho nd come along." ct Iee hastened out to the lofty hall, and at the t} foot of tlo, grand staircase he was joined by Jer- w nynghamn and Howard, the second groomsman, Lord De Courcy, Earl Percy, and a few'other li' intimate family friends.          e The brilde and her attendants had already left her " maiden-b,wer," and Lady Maude was met tic at the foot of the stairs by Lord Villiers, who w drew ler arm within his, and whispered, in a se thrilling voice:   re  "My bride! my wife my queen! my bear- re tiful Maue! never so beautiful as now! Mine, mn mine forever!" "Yes, yours forever!" she softly and earnest- ly said, looking up in his face with a joy too in- tense for smiles. ,  There was no time for further 1speech. Cap. ,t tain Jernyngham had drawn the willing ihand o- proud Lady Kate within his arm, and felt his lheart throb in a most unaccouitable manner be- e neath her light touch. Young Howard took e possession of our gay Miss Clara, whose whole e heart and soul was bent on the conquest sle was about to make of that " dear, old thing," the i Duke of B-, and the bridal cortege passed r into the grand, flower-strewn saloon. The company parted on either side as they ' advanced, and ul der the lattcry of many hun- died eves they aDproached the bishop. Book s in hand, that reverend persolage stood, patient- ly awaiting their coming, and looked approving- ly over his spectacles at the beautiful bride and hlandsome, stately bridegroom as they stood up before him.  And then, amid the profoundest silence, the marriage ceremony was begun. You milght hlave lcard a  pin drop, so deep was the stillness that reigned-as every one held their breath to catch cacl word of that most in- teresting of rites-doubly interesting to ladies. Of the three standing before him, one heart was beating with a joy too deep and intense for words to tell. Lady Kate's handsome eves stole quick glances now and then at the g-iy, young guardsman, as she thought, with a thrilling heart, how much sle could love him, but for the hu- miliation of loving unsought. Little Miss Clara, with her head poised on one side, and herfitlger on her lip, was' building a castle in Spain, where she saw herself blazing with " family diamomnds," and addressed as "Duchess of B-." ' As for the gentlemen, I don't intend describing their sensation-never having been a gentleman my- self (more's the pity!), Ihut will leave it to the imagination of my readers.  The last "I will" had been uttered; and amid that breathless silence Ernest Sey'on, Viscount Villiers, and Maude Percy were pronounced man and wife. There was an instant's pause, and the g'Fsts were about to press forward to offer 'their' Coth gratulations, when pealing through the silence came an unseen voice, in clear, bell-like tones that thrilled through every heart, with the words:  "An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, and a life for a life! My curse, and the curse of Ileav- en rest on all of tHe house of De C,urcv!" Blanchied with wonder, horror, and consternan tion, every face was turned -in the direction whence the voice came; but nothing was to be seen. So sudden, so unlooked for was this aw- ful interruption; so terrific was that deep, hol-     low voice, that the shrieks they would have ut- tered were frozen to the lips of the terrified women. And while they still stood speechless, i horror-struck, gazing in silence, the deep, dire- ' ::,ful voice pealed again through the silent apart- ment like the knell of doom "LAs the rich 'man who stole the one ewe-lamb was accursed, so also be all who bear the name oi De Courcy  May their bridal-robes turn tc fu- neral-pallsl may their houis df rejoicing end in blackest misery! Blighted be their lives! doomed be all they love hated by earth, and. ac- cursed by Heaven!' The voice ceased. A wild shriek resourded through the room and the bride fell fainting on the round. InI an instant, all was confusion. Ladies shrieked and screamed ; servants came rusling in, gentleman, pale and horror-struck, hurried hither and thither, in wildest confusion. All was uproar and dismay. Lord Villiers, with his senseless bride in his arms, was struggling to force his way from the room; and then High above the air resounded the clear, commanding voice of Earl De Courcy: ';Let all be quiet I There is no danger! Se- curk the doors, and look for the intruder. 'his is the trick of some evil-minded person to cre- ate a sensation." His words broke the spell of superstitious ter- ror that bound them Every one flew to obey- guests, servants, and all. Each room was search- ed-everv corner and crevice was examined. L a pin hal been lost, it must have been found; but they searched in vain. The owner of the mysterious voice could not be discovered. Looking in each others' faces, white with won- der, they gave up the fruitless search, and re- turned to the saloon. Like a flock of frightened birds, the ladies, pale with mortal apprehension, were huddled together-not' daring even to speak. In brief, awe-struck whispers the result was told; and then, chill with apprehension, the guests began rapidly to disperse. And in less than hour, the stately house of Maude Percy was wrapped in silence, solitude, and gloom. The bride, sur- rounded by her attendants, lay still'unconscious, while all over London the news was spreading of the appalling termination of the wedding. 'CHAPTER Xi. "TTLE ERMNIE. "Sleep little baby, sleep, Not in thy cradle bed, Not on thy mother's breast, But with the quiet dead." -MRS. SOUrTHEr. Into the great dark gulf of the Past, ne rly two years, like two waves from an ever flowing sea, had vanished, freighted with their usual modicum of sorrow, joy, happiness, and de- spair. And what changes had those two years brought ,  , .   -to the various personages conneited with our, 1 tale? First, Mr. O. C. Toosypegs, in whem I hope my fair readers feel an interest, had closed the - eyes of his rich uncle, pocketed two thousand pounds, attired himself in the very deepest weeds, and began to turn his thoughts toward f Dismal Hollow, and' all "the real nice people - around there." 1  Miss Clara Jernyngham had obtained the de- ! sire of her heart at last, was "' Her Grace of B.," - and, blazing in "family diamonds," was toasted as one of the reigning beauties and belles of the I London haut ton. As to that "dear old thing," i the duke, the pretty little duchess troubled her head very little about him; and be was left at home, to amuse himself with alternate fits of the palsy and gout, and the other diseases old gentlemen are heir to. Captain George Jernyngham had risen to the rank of colonel, now, having been promoted for his bravery in a certain action; and an old uncle, of whom he had hardly heard of before, coming at the same time from the East Indies with an uncountable lot of money, and the liver disease, was accommodating enough to die in the nick of time, leaving all his wealth to our gay guardsman. These two strokes of good fortune enabled Master George to offer his hand, with a safe conscience, to handsome Lady Kate, which he did without even hinting at such a thing as a chandler's shop. Lady Kate showed her good taste in the selectio oef a husband, by ae cepting him on the spotfcand two weeks after, the Times, under the heading of "Marriage in High Life," announced the melancholy fact that Colonel Jernyngham was a bachelor no longer Of the gipsy Ketura, nothing was known. Now and then, at intervals, Earl De Courcy would catch a glimpse of a dark, wild face, with streaming hair, and hollow, sunken eyes, flit- ting after him like a haunting shadow from the grave. Wherever he went, night or day, that dusky, ominous shadow followed, dogging his steps like a sleuth-hound, until the dread of it grew to be a horror unspeakable-the vague mysterious terror of his life. No precautions could rid him of it, until it became the very bane of his existence. If he walked, looking over his shoulder he would see that tall, spectral figure coming after; if he sat in his carriage, and it chanced to stop for a moment, a white, wild face, with great burning eyes, would gleam in upon him for an instant with deadly hate and menace in every feature, and then vanish like a face from the dead. Neither night nor day was he safe from his terrible pursuer, until the dread of this ghostly ghoul wore the very flesh off his bones, reduced him to a mere living skeleton, poisoned every joy of his existence, made death and life a blank and a horror, until the birth of his little granddaughter. And the only ten- der feeling in his stony heart 'centred in her:   she became the only thing that rendered life d sirable. His love for the child amounted to idolatry; in its infant innocence and beauty, it seemed like a protecting angel standing between him and 'his terrible pursuer, lighting the gloom of that awful haunting shadow with the brightness of unseen wings. The last cold gleam of yellow sunshine faded from the dull March sky., Night, with black, starless, moonless face, with cold, piercing wind and sleet, was falling over London. The gorgeous rooms, the glittering salons, the spacious halls of the De Courcy mansion were one blaze of light and magnificence, just as, they were that very night two years before- that awful night of darkest doom. By all but one, that night was forgotten now; for a gay family-party were to meet to celebrate the first birthnight of Lord De Courcy's grandchild. Strange, that on the very anniversary of that dreadful night, another scion should be born to the house of De Courcy. The guests had not yet begun to assemble; and standing by himself, wrapped in gloomy thought, the earl gazed darkly out into the deepening night. You would scarcely have known him, so changed had he grown by the blighting influence of that horrible incubus. Thin and haggard; with sunken eyes, projecting brows, snqw-white hair, and careworn look, he stood the very shadow of his former self-a stricken, bowed,' gloomy old man.  Through the inky darkness, the rays from the street-lamp sent long lines of light and shade across the pavement. That very night, two years before, a' fce, white with woman's utmost woe, had gleamed upon him in that very light, as he stood in that self-same spot. He thought of it now with a convulsive shudder; and the flickering light seemed like'a finger of blood-red flame pointing up to heaven, and in- voking its wrath upon him. With an inward presentimnent he looked through the darkness as if expecting that same dark, unearthly face to  appear; and lo! while he gazed, as if she had sprung up through the-earth, a tall, shadowy  figure emerged from the darkness, and that  awful spectral face he dreaded more than that  of the arch fiend himself, gleamed white and  awful through the gloom. S he beheld him there l in the light, and again that long bony arm was raised, and that flickering finger pointed up to a the lowering sky above, in darkest, voiceless menace. Then, flitting away in the darkness, I to which she seemed to belong, the ghastly e vision was gone, and Earl De Courey stood t frozen with horror to the spot, unable to speak 1 or move.                 1 At that same hour, a far pleasanter scene was i going on in one of the rooms above. It was the dressing-room of Lady Maude, in- I to which we once before introduced the reader. o Once again she stood before the mirror while    her maid assisted at her toilet, and chatted with the little Duchess of B., who, magnificent in white velvet and emeralds, sat (or rather lay) half buried in the dowdy depths of a lounge- having taken advantage of her girlhood's inti- macy with Lady Maude to come early, and in- dulge in what she phrased the "sweetest of talks," before she should descend to the draw- ing-room, and begin her nightly occupation of Ibreaking masculine hearts. Very fair, very sweet, very lovely, looked Lady Maude, as she stood there with a soft smile on her gentle lips, and a calm, deep joy welling from the brooding depths of her soft dark eyes. Her dress was white, even as it had been that  night-white blonde over white satin-with her favorite jewels (pale oriental pearls) wreathing her shining ringlets of jet, and fluttering and shimmering in sparks of subdued fire on her white arms and bosom. The lovely young face looking out from those silky curls was sweeter and fairer now in her gentle maturity than it had ever been in the brilliant beauty of her girlhood. Scarcely twenty, her form had not attained the roundness of perfect womanhood, but was slight and slender as a girl of fourteen, yet perfect in its elegant contour. "And the baby is well?" the duchess was languidly saying, as she played with a beauti- ful little water-spaniel. "Quite well, thank you," replied the low, sweet voice of Lady Maude, with her soft, mus- ing smile. "I need not ask for his lordship, for I saw him last night at the bal masque of Madame la Comtesse De St. Rimy!" said the duchess, with some animation. "He was looking quite kingly as 'Leicester.' By Ihe way, Lady Maude,' why were you not there?"  "Erminie seemed slightly indisposed, I fan- cied, and I would not leave her," answered the young mother. ",Is it possible! Well, I am very fond of children; but I do not think I could give uip so brilliant an affair as last night's masquerade even for such a sweet little angel as Erminio. What do you think, Maude, I made a complete conquest of that handsome melancholy Turkish embassador, who is all the rage now! I had him all to myself the whole evening 1" "Was his grace present?" said iady Maude, a little gravely. The question took the little duchess so much by surprise, that she raised herself on her elbow, opened her blue eyes to their widest ex- tent, and stared in silence at her questioner. Then seeing Lady Maude was quite serious, she lay back among the velvet pillows, and burst into a silvery peal of laughter. "His gracel Oh, that is too good! Why, Lady Maude, the last time I saw the poor, dear old man, which is a week or two ago, he could not stir either hand or foot, and had to be carr     ried about by that odious Italian valet of his, in a chair, whenever he wanted to move. The dear, helpless old thing! he did look so odd and i80 absurd,. shaking all over with that disagreea- ble palsy of his, that I could not bear to go into his room since. My maid, Fanchette, always finds out how he is, and tells me. But the idea of his going to the masquerade! O dear me!" And the affectionate wife went off intc anoth- er low, musical peal, that made the pretty, soft- eyed water-spaniel shake his necklace of tiny silver bells, from sympathy, till they .tinkled again. Lady Maude looked as she felt-a little shock- ed-at this heartless levity; and madame la duchesse perceiving it, began: "Now, Maude, there is no use in your looking so profoundedly scandalized about it, because I have done nothing so very naughty. You don't expect me to go and shut myself up, and nurse him--do you? Though I dare say you, having the elements of a martyr in you, wou-d do it just as soon as not!" "I would not flirt with that Turkish embas- Sador, at all events!" said Lady Maude, in a tone of slight rebuke. "Have you no, heard he has four wives already?" "Perhaps he thinks I'll make a fifth some day!" said the duchess, laughing. "Well, I wouldn't mind much; he is handsome enough for anything. There! I knew I would shock you again. How saintly you have grown of late, Maude!" "O Clara!-Clara! what a mad little flirt you are!" said Lady Maude, half-smiling-half-sor- rowful. "Well, you see it's my nature. What a love of a little dog this is! I made a mariage de convenience; and what other result could you anticipate? I married the Duke of B. for his coronet; he married me because he wanted some one to nurse him, and poultice up his constitution, and sit at the head of his table, and make herself useful generally. I got what I aimed at; and if he has not, it shows I am the better politician of the two. Stand upon your hind legs, Prince! And therefore, O wise and discreet Lady Villiers! model wife and happy mother, you must not expect one who is neith- er to do otherwise than as she does. If my sole earthly happiness consists in a 'coach and four,' superb diamonds, an unlimited number of lovers, and a box at the opera, why, I rather think I should be permitted to enjoy them, since I am  really not a bad girl after all, and never mean to be. And now, as your toilet is completed, and I have made quite a long speech, will your ladyship be good enough to lead the way to the nursery? I want to see this little stray angel of yours before I descend among the sinners, be- low." Smiling, and passing her arm around -he slen- der waist of the thoughtless little duchess, Lady   Maude passed with her from the room, and-the two young girls entered the nursei'y. It was a beautiful room, all draped in white and pale-greenj pure and peaceful as a glimpse of heaven. And in the centre of the room stood a little rosewood crib, with snowy hangings, wherein lay a young infant, so surpassingly ,lovely that the duchess might well call it a "stray .angel." Little Erminie-sweet Erminie--the child of noble, princely Lord Villiers and beautiful Maude Percy-how shall I describe her? It is not often young babies are really pretty-doting grandmammas and aunties to the contrary not- withstanding; but this one really was. A snow- white complexion, with the softest pink tinge on the rounded cheeks anid lips, as faint and delicate as the heart of a sea-shell; a profusion of palest golden hair falling in slight, rippling waves, like raveled silk, on the white, rounded  forehead. , Two tiny blue-veined hands grasped, even in sleep, a pretty Frenclh doll, holding it close to the soft, white bosom, and the long, golden lashes lay brightly on the rosy, sleep- flushed cheeks. 'The lovely face of Lady Maude flushed with pride, love, and happiness; and bending down, softly as the west wind kisses the sleeping flowers, her lips touched the babe's. Light ,as the caress was, it awoke little Er- minie., The golden lashes slowly lifted, and a pair of sweet blue eyes looked fearlessly up. "Mamma," she cried, joyfully, holding up her rosy, little arms- mamma, tate Minnie." "O the little darling!" exclaimed the duchces, catching her impulsively up, and half-smother- ing her with kisses. "Oh, did you ever see such a sweet little cherub? Oh, there never was such a lovely little angel! It's just the sweet- est, dearest, blessed, tidsy ickle sing that ever was; so it is!" Baby, who evidently was an adept in broken English,:and fully understood that profoundly- mysterious language known as "baby-talk," immediately as if in reward for these exclama- tory sentences, emphasized by the strongest italics, held up her rosy little mouth to be kissed again, being evidently dike all of her sex), fond of that operation. "Oh, I never, never saw such a perfectly love- ly little duck " exclaimed the Duchess Clara, in a second burst of enthusiasm. "' Such sweet hair, and such splendid eyes! Who does she look like, Maude? Not like you, I'm sure." "She has her father's blue eyes and fait hair," said the happy young mother, smiling at Clara's emphasis, which rendered every other word not only into italics, but, in some cases, even into capitals. "Oh, she is the most charming little ducks o' diamonds I ever beheld in my life! Such a beautiful skin, just like white satin!" reiterated the duchess, punctuating her remarks by a se- J   ries of short, sharp little kisses, that made sweet Erminie open her large blue eyes in subdued wonder. "O Maude! I don't wonder you are so saintly, with this little, beautiful seraph ever with you! Sweet little angel Erminie! thou almost persuadest me to be a Christian!" There was a soft tap at the door,' and the nurse, Wh6 had hitherto remained in the back- ground, and listened with professional stoicism to these raptures, went and opened it; and Lord Villiers entered. He started in some surprise, as he beheld how the room was tenanted, and then advanced with a smile I Lady Maude, with more than the adoring love of two years before, went over, and, laying her hand on his shoulder, said: "Clara wanted to see Erminie before we de- scended Ito the drawing-room, dearest Ernest, and 'has fallen even more deeply in love, with her than she has with the Turkish embassador, the fortunate possessor of the interestingly mel- ancholy dark eyes." Lord Villiers smiled, and looked, with eyes full of love, on sweet Erminie, who sprang up, crowing gleefully, and crying, "Papa!" "Wait one moment, till I see. Why, she's the very picture of your lordship! Keep still, little girl, till I compare you with your papa. There's the same large, blue, Saxon eyes; the same fair, curling hair; the same high, princely D 'forehead ; the same handsome mouth (no harm to compliment a married man-eh, Maude?); the same long, aristocratic, -white fingers--your very image, my lord '" "I had rather, she looked like Maude," said the young husband, encircling his wife's small waist fondly with his arm. "Well, so she does when she smiles. Don't you perceive the resemblance now? Miss Er- minie, will you be still? , What a restless little creature it is!" "Papa, papa, tate Minnie," crowed that small individual, holding out her little arms, and look- ing pathetic and imploring. "Here, papa, take the young lady," said the duchess, depositing her in the young man's arms, and shaking out her glittering plumage, slightly discomposed by the frantic exertions of the "young lady" in question. "She is fonder of gentlemen than. ladies, I perceive. She woul'nl't be a true female, though, if she wasn't." Miss Erminie, in a paroxysm of delight, im- mediately buried her " long, aristocratic, white fingers" in papa's thick, burnished locks, with variations of pulling his whiskers and moustache and then tenderly kissing the above hirsute ap- pendages to make them well again. And papa, like- all other young papas, looked as if he thought her the most wonderful baby that ever lived, and danced herup and down until she for- got all sense of etiquette and propriety, and fairly screamed with delight. Now, nurse, take Miss Minnie," he said, tis-   ing at last, and laughingly shaking back hs thick, fair hair. "Come, Minnie, be good nov; t papa must go."  Still crowing as if she considered she had done t something rather extraordinary than otherwise, Miss Minnie allowed herself to be taken by the nurse, and saw papa, and mamma, and the lit- tle lady in velvet and diamonds, smile a good- bye, and turn to leave the room. I "Foolish little wife," said Lord Villiers, laugh- ing, as he saw Lady Maude cast a "' longing, lin- gering look behind" at her heart's treasure, "can you not even tear yourself away frohn your darling for a few hours, without straining your eyes to catch a 'last glimpse" . "I know it is foolish," said Lady Maude, half apologetically, yet still keeping her yearning eyes fixed on little Erminie; "but I feel o strangely about leaving her to-night. You wil1 be sure to take good care of her Martha P" "Sartin, my lady," responded Martha, rather offended at their want of trust in her care. "Now, Maude," said Lord Villiers, amused It her still-apparent anxiety. Half-laughing, half-reluctant, she allowed her- self to be drawn from the room, and saw -te door close between her and her child. Down in the spacious drawing-room  Lady Maude soon found herself fully occupied in ri- ceiving the guests, who began to arrive thick and fast. But this did not remove her strange anxiety concerning Erminie; and about an hoeur after, she stole away for a moment to pay a hur- ried visit to the nursery.        ' All was calm and peaceful there. L;ttle Eir minie lay asleep once more in ler crib, and Mar- tha sat dozing in her rocking-chair.  Half ashamed of her groundless fears, Lady Maude lightly kissed her sleeping infant and hurried away. Little did she dream how many sun's would rise and set-how many years would comb and go-before they two should meet again.  The night in mirth and music was passing on, and the hour of midnight approached.  The Duchess of B., Earl De Courcy, anl Lady Maude, were standing conversing togeth- er, when, as if struck by a sudden thought, the duchess exclaimed:  "Oh! by the way, Lady Maude, do you re- collect the strange voice that interrupted the ceremony the night you were married  Have you ever discovered who that was P"  Both Lady Maude and the earl grew pale.   "Never I The whole affair has been wrapped in mystery ever since," said Lady Maude, with  a slight shudder. "Dear me, how frightened I was that nig'ht  said the duchess, arranging her bracelets "It was quite dreadful; the most mysterious thing -just like a ghost, or something in a playv" : The duchess broke off suddenly and listeuild, as the great hall-clock tolled the hour of twelve. And just as the last stroke died away, that     same terrific voice thdy had heard years b fore pealed through the spacious room like the eep tolling of a death-bell. "Two years ago this night a legal murder was committed, and now the hour of retributi n iS at hand. The sins of the father shall be visited upon the children and the children's children, even to the third and fourth generations. Woe' to all of the house of De Courcy!" ,As if the angel of death had suddenly de- scended in their midst, every face blanched, and every heart stood still with nameless horror. For one moment, the silence of the grave reign-, ed, then a wild, piercing shriek w'as heard through'the house, and the nurse Martha, with terror, blanched face, and uplifted arms, rushed into the midst of the assembled guests, scream- ing: ' O Miss Minnie Miss Minnie Miss Minnie!" O 'God! my 'child 1" came from the white lips of Lady Maude, in a voice that those who heard never forgot, as she fled from the room, up the long staircase, and into the nursery. But the crib was empty; the babe was GONE. The wild, wild shriek of a mother's woe re- sounded through the house, anid Lady Maude fell in a deadly swoon on the floor. And when Lord Villiers-his own noble face white and set with unutterable anguish-burst into the room, he found her lying cold and life- less on the ground. Meantime, some of the most self-possessed of the guests had assembled round Martha, in order to extract from her, if possible, what had happened.  But half insane with terror already, the con- tinuous screaming of the frightened ladies com- pletely drove every remaining gleam of sense out of her head, and her words were so wild and incoherent, that but little could be made out of them. It appeared from what she said, that she had been sitting half asleep in her chair, with her little charge wholly asleep in the cradle be- side her, when suddenly a tall, dark shadow seemed to obscure the light in the room; and looking up with a start of terror, she beheld the most-awful monster-whether man, or woman, or demon, she could not tell-in the act of snatching little Erminie from the cradle, and flying from the room. Frozen with horror, she had remained in her seat unable to move, until at last, fully conscious of what had taken place, she had fled screaming down stairs. And that, was all she could tell. In vain they questioned and cross-questioned; they could obtain noth- ing further from the terrified Martha, and only succeeded in driving the few remaining wits sie had, out of her head. "ord Villiers, leaving his still-senseless wife in the care of her maids, with a face that seem- ed turned to marble, gave orders to have the   house, the grounds, the whole of London, if necessary, ransacked in search of the abductor. But there was one wh?, sat bowed, collapsed, shuddering in his seat, who recognized that voice, and knew what thdse awful words meant; and that one was Earl De Courcy. "She has murdered her! she has murdered her!" was the cry that seemed rending his very heart with horror and despair. CHAPTER XII.  WOMAN'S HATE. "Oh' Woman wronged can cherish hate More deep, and dark, than manhood may  And when the mockery of fate Hath left revenge her chosen way, Then all the wrongs which time hath nursed Upon her spoiler's head shall burst, And all her grief, and woe, and pain, Burn fiercely on his heart and brain." -WHrITIEB. Maddened, despairing, blaspheming, cursing earth and heaven, God and man, hating life, and sunshine, and the world, the wretched gip- sy queen had fled from those who gathered around her on that morning full of woe, and fled far away, she neither knew nor cared whither. She sped along through lanes, and streets, crowded thoroughfares, seeing nothing, hearing nothing, conscious of nothing but her own mad- dening wrongs, glaring before her like a maniac, and dashing fiercely to the ground with her clenched fist all those who, moved by pity, would have stopped her. On, like a bolt from a bow, until the city seemed to fade away, and she saw green fields, and pretty cottages, and waving trees, and knew that she had left London belind her. Night came on before she thought of stopping for a single instant to rest. She had walked far that day; her feet were bleeding and blistered; for nearly three days she had touched nothing but cold water, yet her iron frame was unsub- dued-she felt no weariness, no faintness, no hunger. The indomitable spirit within, sustain- ed her. She thought of nothing, cared for nothing, but revenge; and for that her verysoul was crying out with a longing-a hunger that nothing could appease. She dared not stop for one moment to think; she felt she would go mad if she did; so she hurried on and on, as if driven on by some fierce, inward power, against which it; was useless to contend. How tie night passed, how 'morning came, how she found herself in the peaceful depths of the forest, she never could tell. How, ere that sun set, she found herself with her tribe, lying prostrate on the cold ground, conscious, like one in some frightful nightmare, of what was passing around her, yet unable to comprehend what it meant-all was vague and unreal still. Past, and present, and future, all were mingled together in one dark, dreadful chaos, of which   nothing was real but the dull, muffled pain at her heart, and the word REVENGE, that kept ever dancing in letters of blood-red flame before her hot, scorching eyes. She was conscious, in a lost, dreamy sort of way, that suns rose and set, and the insufferable light departed, and the dark, cool night came again and again; of seeing anxious eyes bent on her, and hearing hushed voices and subdued footfalls, and dusky, troubled faces stooping over her but, like all the rest, it was a mock- ing unreality. The first shock of the blow had crushed Ind stunned her, numbing the sense of pain, and leaving nothing but the heavy throb- bing aching at her strong, fierce heart., The woman cI mighty frame, and fierce, stormy passions, lay there, motionless-stricken to the dust. And then this departed, and another mood came. One by one the broken links of memory re-  turned, and then all other feelings were sub-  merged and lost in a strong, deadly, burning  desire of revenge-a revenge as fierce and un- dying as that of a tigress robbed of her cubs-  a revenge as strong and unconquerable as the heart that bore it. With it came the recollec- tion of his child; and drawing from her bosom v the packet he had given her, she read (for gipsy as she was she could read) the woman's address. 1 There were two motives to preserve life; and, E like a lioress rousing herself from a lethargy, the gipsy queen arose, and resolutely set her h face to the task. One determination she made, 6 never to lose sight of him whom she hated, un Ir til her revenge was satiated For she could f wait--there would be no sudden stabbing or  killing; she did not believe in such vengeance n as that--vengeance that tortures its victim but for a moment. Revenge might be slow, but it s world be sure-she would hunt him, pursue tl hire, tortu'e him, until life was worse than b dea,h, until he would look upon death as a i mere3y; then he would have felt a tithe of the misery he had made her endure. A other determination was, to leave her son's child with the tribe until such time as she should again claimit. She knew it would be well cared for with them. for they all loved their queen. And taking with her a lad whom she could trust, she left them one morning, and started for t Leaving the gipsy youth some miles from the  place, she approached the cottage, which was opened by the widow herself, who looked con- vc siderably strtled by her dark, stern visitor. In lo the briefestpossible terms, Ketura made known her errand  and imperiously demanded the child. The woman, a   mild, gentle-looking person, an seemed grieved and troubled, and began some- m, thing about her affection for the little one, and ke her hope th t it would not be taken away. th Iy   tt  I want the child!-bring it here l" broke in r the gipsy, with a fiercely-impatient gesture. r , The woman, terrified into silence by her dark imperious visitor, went to the door and called: f  "Ray, Ray!" e  "Here, Susan," answered a spirited young e voice; and, with a gleeful laugh, a bright little t fellow of three years bounded into the room, d dragging after him, by the collar, a huge, sav- age-looking bull dog, who snapped fiercely at his captor. The woman Susan uttered a scream, and fled from the dog to the other side of the room. "I caught him, Susan, and pulled him in  He can't bite me!" said the little fellow, trium- phantly, his black eyes flashing with the con- sciousness of victory. Then, catching sight of the stranger, he stopped, and stared at her in silent wonder. "-le does beat all I ever seen-he bean't afeerd o' nothin'," said the woman, half-apolo- getically. "It be no fault o' mine, mistress  he will ha'e his own way, spite o' all I can say." The gipsy fixed her piercing eyes keenly up- on him, and started to behold the living counter- part of her own son when at the same age. There was the same clear olive complexion, with a warm, healthy flush on the cheeks and lips; the same bold, bright-black eyes, fringed by long silken lashes; the same high, noble brow; the same daring, undaunted, fearless spirit, flashing already in his young eyes. Her hard face softened for an instant; but when she saw the thick, curling black hair clustering 'round his head; noted the small, aristocratically. fastidious mouth. the long, delicate land, she knew he must have inherited them from his mother-and she grew dark and stern again.- His smile, too, that lit up his beautiful face, nnd softened its dazzling splendor,was not his fa- ther's; but still he was sufficiently like him to  bring a last ray of human feeling back to her iron heart. "Little boy, come here," she said, holding out her hand. Any other child would have been frightened by her odd dress, her harsh voice, and darklv- gleaming face; but he was not It might be that, child as he was, he had an inherent liking for strength and power; or it might have been his kindred blood that drew him to her-for he fearlessly went over, put his hand in hers, and looked up in her face. "What is your name?" she said, in a softer voice, as she parted his thick, silky curls, and looked down into the. dark splendorsf his eyes. "Raymond Germaine," was his answer. The gipsy looked at Susan. "His father's name was Germaine," the wom- an hastened to explain, "and I called him Ray- mond because I saw R. G. on his father's handl kerchief; and I thought maybe it might been that."  I     "Very good. Will you come with me, Ray- I mond?"   " "If Susan lets me," answered the boy, look- ing at his foster-mother. "She will let you," said the gipsy, calmly. "Get him ready instantly. I have no time to lose." The woman, though looking deeply grieved and sorry, did not hesitate to obey, for there was something in the eye of Ketura that might have made a bolder woman yield. So she dress- ed little Raymond in silence, made up the rest of his clothing in a bundre, kissed him, and said good-bye amid many tears and sobs, and saw him depart with Ketura. "Let me carry you-we have a long way to go," said the gipsy, stooping to lift him in her strong arms. "I don't want to be carried. I'll walk," said Master Ray, kicking manfully. The gipsy smiled a hard, grim smile. "His father's spirit,' she muttered. ' I like it. We'll see how long he will hold out." For nearly an hour the little hero trudged sturdily along, but at the end of that time his steps began to grow slow and weary "Ain't we most there?" he said, looking rue-  fully down the long, muddy road. "No, we're a long way off. You had better let me carry you." With a somewhat sleepy look of mortifica- tion, Master Ray permitted his grandmother to lift him up; and scarcely had she taken him in her arms, before his curly head dropped heavi- ly on her shoulder, and he was fast asleep. With the approach of night, feeling some- what fatigued and footsore herself, she over- took our friend Mr. Harkins, who, as he related to Mr. Toosypegs, " took her bin," and brought her to his own house, where "Missis 'Arkins" regaled young Mr. Germaine with a supper of bread and milk, to which that small youth did ample justice. Another hour brought her'to the place where the gipsy-boy was waiting, and to his care she consigned her still-sleeping grandson, with many injunctions that he was to be taken the best care of. These commands were, however, un- necessary; for, looking upon the sleeping child as the future king of his tribe, the lad bore him along as reverentially as though he were a prince of the blood-royal. Then the gipsy queen, Ketura, giving up all other thoughts but that of vengeance, turned her steps in the direction of London, where, by fortune-telling, and the other arts of her peo- ple, she could live and never lose sight of her deadly foe. Everything concerning the De Coureys she learned. She heard of the marriage of Lord Villiers to Lady Maude Percy; and on the night of the wedding she had entered, unobserved by all, in the bustle, and, screened from view behind   a side-door, she had uttered the words that had thrown the whole assembly into such dismay; Then, knowing what must be the consequence, she had fled instantly, and was far from danger ere the terrified guests had recovered sufficient presence of mind to begin the search. How after that she haunted, harrassed, and followed the earl, is well-known to the reader, and the success of 'this course was sufficient even to satisfy her; implacable as she was. She saw that life was beginning to be slow torture to him-that his dread of her was amounting to a monomania with him; and still she pursued liim, like some awful nightmare, wherever he went, keeping him still in view. With the birth of little Erminie, she saw a still more exquisite torture in store for him. Her very soul bounded with the thought of the life-long misery she might heap upon him through the means of this child, whom she had heard he idolized. From the first moment she had heard of its birth, her determination was to steal it--to make way with it-murder it-any- thing--she did not care what, only something to make him feel what she had felt. She had been, for a time, delirious, when she first heard of her son's death ; but that grief lasted but for a short time; and then she rejoiced-yes, actu- ally rejoiced-that he was dead and free from all future earthly misery. Death would have been to her a relief, had she not determined to live for revenge. She had lost a child-so should they; and then, perhaps, they would be able to comprehend the wrong they had made her suffer. 'But in spite of all her attempts, a year pass- ed and she had found no means of carrying this threat into execution. The baby was so seldom taken out, and then always in a carriage with its mother and the nurse, that it was impossible to think of obtaining it. To enter the house, except on the occasion of a ball, or party, when servants and all would be busily occupied, was not to he thought of, either. But on the night of the abduction, hearing of the party to be giv- en at the mansion, and remembering that it was the anniversary of her son's death, she had been wrought up to a perfect frenzy of madness, and resolved to obtain the child, even at the cost of her life. Toward midnight, she had cautiously enter- ed, thinking all were most likely to be in the drawing-rooms at that hour, and having previ- ously heard from the servants, by apparently careless questions, where the nursery was situ- ated, bent her steps in that direction. Pausing at the door, which was ajar, she had glanced through, and beheld child and nurse both asleep. To steal cautiously in, snatch up the child, muffle it so tightly in hler cloak that if it cried it could not "be heard, and fly down. the stair- lcase, was but the work of an instant. Pausing, for an instant, before the door of the grand sa-   loon, in her fleet descent, she had boldly utter- e: her denunciation, and then, with the speed of the wind, had flown through the long hall, out of the door, and away through the wind and sleet, as if pursued by the arch-demon himself. When she paused, at last, from exhaustion, she was On London Bridge. Darkly came back tie memory of the night just two years before, when, with deadly despair in her heart, she had stood in that self-same spot, on the point of committinig self-murder. With a fierce im- pulse, she opened her cloak and lifted the half- smothered infant high above her head, to dash it into thie dark waters below. For one mo- ment, she held it poised in the air, and then she drew it back. "No," she said, with a fiendish smile; "it will be a greater revenge to let it live-to let it grow up tainted, corrupted, miserable outcast; and then when spurned alike by God and man, present it to them as their child. Ha, ha, ha! that will e revenge, indeed! Live, pretty one live! You are far too precious to die yet." Awakened from her sound sleep by the un- usual and unpleasant sensation of the bitter March storm beating in her face, little Erminic began to cry Wrapping it once more in her thick mantle, the gipsy, knowing there was no time to I se, fled away in the direction of a low ' huse, in St. Giles, where, with others of her tribe, sle had often been, and the proprietor of which was a gipsy himself, and a member of her own tiibe. Here, safe from all pursuit, she could stay with the child until the first heat of the search was past, and then-then to begin her tortuies once more. Little ]rminie grieved ,without ceasing for mamma " at first, and seemed almost to know tl e difference between the miserable den where- ir she was now located and the princely home she had left. It was not in any heart, however hard, to dislike the lovely infant; and much as Ketura hated the race from which she sprung, she reallylpitied the little, gentle, helpless. babe. So, from two motives-one a feeling of commis- seration for the child, and the other a fierce, de- moniacal desire that she should live to be the in- strument of her vengeance -she procured a nurse for little Erminie, a woman a shade bet- ter than the rest of her class, who had lately lost a child of her own; and owing to her care, little Erminie lived. Lived-but for what fate? CHAPTER XIII. RETRIBUTION. "Ay, think upon the cause- Forget it not. When you lie down to rest, Let it be black among your dreams; and when The mori returns, so let it stand between The sun and you, as an ill-omened cloud Upon a Summer-day of festival."-BYRaoN. A month passed. Night and day the search  had been crried on; enormous rewards were of-  fered; detectives were sent in every direction;   but all in vain. No trace of the lost child iwas to'be found Lady Maude hlad awoke from that deadly swoon, only to fall into another, and another, until her friends grew seriously alarmed for ier life. From this, she sank into a sort of low stupor; and for weeks, she lay still and motion- less, unconscious of everything passing around her. White, frail, and shadowy, she lay, a breathing corpse, dead to the world and all it contained. She scarcely realized her loss she felt like one who has received a heavy blow, stunning her for a time, and rendering her una- ble to comprehend the full extent of her less. She received what they gave her in a passive sort of way, heard without understanding what they said, and watched them moving about from under her heavy eyelids without recogniz- ing them. She did not even know her hus- band, who, the very shadow of his former self, gave up everything to remain by her bedside, night and day. They began to be alarmed ;'or her reason, at last; but her physician said there was no danger-she would arouse from tiis dull, death-like lethargy, at last: they must only let nature have her way. Earl De Courey never left lis room now. Feeling as if in some sort he was the cause of this awful calamity, he remained, dav and night, in his clamber, a miserable, heart-broken, wretched old man. Late one evening, early in May, as he sat bowed and collapsed in his chair, a servant en- tered to announce a stranger below, who earn- estly desired to see his lordship. "Is it a Woman?" asked the carl, turning ghastly. "No, my lord, a man, I think wrapped in a long cloak, and with a hat slouced down over his face. He said he had something of the ut- most importance to reveal to your lordship." "Show him up," said the earl, eagerly; while his heart gave a sudden bound, as ho thought it might be some one with news of Er- minie. The next moment, the door was thrown open, and a tall, dark figure, muffled in a cloak reaci- ing to the ground, and with a hat pulled far over the face, entered, and stood silently confronti g the earl.  "Well? Do you bring news of my son's child? Speak quickly, for God's sake, if you do!" said the earl, half rising in his eagerness. Two fierce, black eyes, like living coals, glared at him from under the hat, but the tall stran- ger spoke not a word. A deadly fear, like an iron hand, clutched t 9 heart of the earl. That tall, motionless form  those glaring eyes; that ominous silence, made his very blood curdle. WhitB and trembling, he fell back in his seat, for all his undaunted strength was gone now.- "Leave the room," said the stranger, in a     deep, stern voice, turning to the servant, who stood gazing from one to the other. The man vanished-the door closed. And Earl De Courcy was alone with his mysterious visitor, who still stood erect, towering and si- lent, before him.            ' "Man or devil, speak! With what evil pur- pose have you sought me to-night?" said the earl, at last finding voice. Silently the stranger lifted his hat, and cast it on the floor. A mass of thick, streaming, black hair, on which, one wild March night, the pitiless rain had beat, fell over her shoulders. The long cloak was dropped off, and, stern, dark and menacing, he saw the lofty, command- ing form, the fierce, black eyes, and dark, low- ering brow of the wronged gipsy queen, Ketura, his relentless, inplacable foe. The last hue of life faded from the White face of the earl at the terrible sight; a horror un- speakable thrilled through his very s9ul. Twice lie essayed to speak; his lips moved, but no sound came forth. Silent, still, she stood before him, as rigid as a figure in bronze, her arms folded over her breast, her lips tightly compressed, every fea- ture in perfect repose. You might have tought her some dark statue, but that life-burning life-was concentrated in those wild, dark eyes, that never for a single instant removed their un- compromising glare from his face. So they stood for nearly five minutes, and then words came, at last, to the trembling lips of the earl  "Dark, dreadful womat!' what new crime have you come to perpetuate this night?" "No crime, lord earl. I come to answer the questions you asked as I entered." "Of the child? You have stolen it?" he wildly demanded. Her malignant eyes were on him still; her arms were still folded over her breast; no fea- ture had moved; but now a strange, inexplicable smile flickered round her thin lips, as she quick- ly answered: ("I have!" "And, woman!-demon in woman's form! what wrong had that helpless babe done you 9" he cried out, in passionate grief. No change came over the set, dark face, as from the lips, still wreathed with that dreadful, ominous smile, slowly dropped the words: "' The sins of the father shall be visited upon the children's children, even to the third and fourth generation. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, and a life for a life, saith the Lord of Hosts!'" "Devil incarnate! blaspheme not! O Hea- ven of heavens  how had you the heart to inmrder that child?" "You had the heart, lord earl, to murder mine." "I believed him guilty. You know I did!   I And she was an innocent babe, as pure from all guile as an angel fromi Heaven!" "So was he, my lord. He was as free from that crime as that babe; and yet for it you took his life." It was awful to hear her speak in that low, even voice, so unnaturally deep and calm. No pitch of passion could be half so terrific as that unearthly quiet." *  "Devil!-fiend! you shall die for this!" he cried, madly springing up. "What lho with. out there! Secure this hag of perdition be- fore-" A low, strangled gurgle finished the sentence; for, with the bound of a pythoness, she had sprung forward and grasped him by the throat. She had the strength of a giant. He was a weak, broken-down old man, as powerless in her strong, horny fingers as an infant.  He grew black in the face, his eye-balls pro- jected, and he struggled, blindly and helplessly, to extricate himself' She laughed a low, eer- ing laugh at his ineffectual efforts, and said, in- sultingly, as she released him: "Softly, softly, lord earl! such violent strain-' ing of your lungs is not good for -your consti- tution. You are quite helpless in my hands, you perceive; and if you attempt to raise your voice in that unpleasant manner again, I shall be forced to give you a still more loving clutch next time. our best policy is, to keep as quiet as possible just now." He ground his teeth in impotent fury, as he gasped for breath.  "Besides, you take' things for granted too easily, my lord. What proof have you that I am a murderess? You are, and in the sight of God; but that is not saying I am!" "O woman! guilty, blood-stained, fiendless! your own words confirm it!"' he passionately cried out. Gently, my lord, gently! Have you heard  me say I murdered her?" "You did not deny it." "That is negative proof, very unsubstantial. as you evidently know, although you found it  sufficient to condemn my son!" "You are too much of a demon to spare her innocent life one moment when in your power.  Oh, I know-I know she is dead! Dear little angel! Sweet, helpless liti1. ,rminie!" He almost lost his dread ':-r in his passion of grief.- His chest heaveu as he buried his. face in his hands, and something like a convul-l sive sob shook his frame. "Talk not of griefS till .thou hast seen the tears of stern-browed; men."  But the woman felt no remorse. No ; an ex- ultant sense of triumph-a fiendish joy filled  her heart, at the proof of wh:t she had made& him suffer. She had still a fiercer pang in store for .him; and waiting till he had lifted his pales face again, she began, in a low, mocking voice.      "And thinkest thou, O Lord de Courcy, there is no darker doom than death? Do you think vengeance such as mine is to be sated by such paltry revenge as- that? Pshaw, man! You are only a novice in the art of torture, I see; though you commenced a dangerous game when you practiced first on me. Why, if 1 had slain her, that would have been momentary revenge; and fifty thousand lives such as hers could not sate mine. Other children might be born, years would pass, and she, in course of time, would be almost forgotten. No, my lord; such ven- geance as that would never satisfy the gipsy Ketura!" "Saints in heaven Am I sane or mad? 0 woman, woman! speak, and tell me truly. Does the chili yet live?" "It does!"- "Thank God! Oh, bless God for that!" he cried, passionately, while tears ofjoy fell fast from his eyes. The same evil, sinister smile curled the lips of the gipsy. "What a fool the man is " she said, bitterly, "thanking God that her life is spared, when she will yet live to curse the hour she was born. O man! can you comprehend the depths of a gipsy's hate-you, with your cold, sluggish, northern blood? Yes; she -shall live; but it will be for a doom so dark that even the fiends themselves will shudder to hear it; she will live to invoke death as a blessing, and vet will not dare to die! And then I will return your Er- minie to her doting grandsire, a thing so foul and polluted that the very earth will refuse her a grave. Then, Lord de Courcy. my revenge will be complete!" His hands dropped from his face as if he had been stricken with sudden death ; .the sight seemed leaving his eyes; the very life seemed palsied in his heart. He was conscious, for one' dizzy moment, of nothing but of the blasting sight of that terrific woman, who, with her flaming eyes piercing him like two drawn stil- letos, towered there above him, like a vision from the infernal regions. She was calm still that terrible, exultant smile had not left her lips; but he would. soon- er have seen her foaming with passion than as she looked at that moment, standing there. "Tlis is our second interview, lord earl," she said, while he sat speechless. "The first. time, I pleaded on my knees to you, and you spurned me from you as if I had been a dog. This time it should be your turn to plead;: for you have almost as much at stake as I had then. If you do not choose to do so, that isyour affair, not  mine. The third time-when-it comes--you will  have realized what a gipsy's revenge is like." "O wonman! if there be one spark of human I nature in your savage 'breast, for. God's sake, t spare that child!" cied the earl, wrouglit up to a perfect agony by her words. o er words.   e  She stepped back a pace, and looked at him i for an instant in silence. At last : a "I pleaded to you on my knees," she said, I with an icy smile. Her words gave him hope. The proud man fell on his knees before her, and held up his clasped hands in supplication. The high-born i; arl de Courcy knelt in wildest agony at the tfeet of the outcast gipsy I Her hour of triumph had come. Folding her I arms over her breast, she looked down upon him -as he knelt there, with a look no words can ever describe. "Spare her-spare herti For God's sake, ) spare that child!" There was no reply. Erect, rigid, and move- less as a figure in stone she stood, looking down upon him with her blazing eyes. Slay her, if you will; let liergo to heaven t guileless and unstained.- any hing rather than the doom you have destined for her 1" F  Still n, reply. With that, triumphant smile -a smile such! as. Satan himself might have worn, she looked steadily and quietly down at the man at her feet.        ... "Besides, you 'dare- not keep her 1" he said, gathering courage from hler silence; fancying, perlaps, it was a sign of relenting. "The ofl- ers of the law would .find .ou out; and a worse fate than your son's would be yours." It was an unfortunate allusion. -Hier brow grew black as a thunder-cloud; but she only laughed scornfully. "Find me?  she repeated. "Yes; if they can find Inst-year's snow, last year's partridges, or last sunmmer's rain. Let toem find we. , Why, if it came to that, I could dash ils hbralps out in one instant, before its very motl:ers eyes." ' O worst of fiends! does there inger a hu- man heart in your body-."' "    'o; it turned to stone the night I groveled in vain at your feet." "Take any other revenge you like; haunt me, pursue me, as you will, but restore that child I Bhe never injured you ; if there is guilt any- where, it reaste on my head./ Let me, therefore, suffer, and give back the child." She smiled in silence.'  ' You .will relent; you are a woman, and not a. devil. Consent to what I, ask, and, if wealth be any object, you shall have tlhebalf-the whole of my fortune. Tell me you consent, and all I have, in the world, together with my everlasting gratitude, will be yours." '..'You sho uld have thought of this the night you refused to grant my prayer, my lord. Will your wealth- and ' everlasting gratitude' restore my son from the dead?"   .  "God. knows, were it in my power,I would willingly give. my life to restore, him and cancel the past. All that remains for me to do I will do, if you restore the child." "Lord earl, whel I knelt to you, you corn-     maned me to get up. It is my trn now. You have been sufficiently humiliated, even,'to satis- fy me. Rise!" He arose, and stood before her, so faint with many emotions that he was obliged to grasp the chair for support. "' You will restore her?" he breathlessly ask- ed. "( Never, so help me God, till my vow is ful- filled I Palsied be my, heart, if it ever relents! Withered be my hand, if it ever confers a boon on you or one of your house! Blighted he my tongue, if it ever heap but curses on you! Doomed be my soul, if it ever forgives you for wliat you have done. Once again, lord earl, we are to meet, and then, beware!" The last words were uttered with a maniac shriek, as she turned and fled from the room. There was a heavy fall; and the servants, rushing in in terror, found Earl de Courcy lying on the floor, with a dark stream of blood flowing from his mouth. They raised him up, but they were too late. He had ruptured an artery of the heart; and with the clotted gore still foaming around his lips, he lay there before them, stark and dead!  CHAPTER XIV. THE NEW HOME. "Yellow sheaves from rich Ceres the cottage had crowned, Green rushes were strewed on the floor; The casements sweet woodbine crept wantonly round, And decked the sod seats at the door."-CUNNINGUAM. With that last terrible denunciation on her lips, Ketura had fled from the room, from the house,'Qut into the night. Half delirious with mingled triumph, fiend- ish joy, and the pitch of passion into which she had wrought herself, she walked with rapid, excited strides along, heedless of whither she went, until she suddenly ran with stunning force against another pedestrian who was coming tow- ard her.  The force of the cQnoussion sent the unfortu- nate individual' sprawling, with rather unpleas- ant suddenness, on his back; while the gipsy herself, 'somewhat cooled by the shock, paused for a moment and grasped alamp-post to steady hers'elf. Good gracious!" gasped a deeply-aggrieved voice from the pavement, " if this ain't too bad i To be run into this way and pitched heels over head on the broad of one's back without a min- ute's warning! Why, it's a shame!" reiterated the voice,'in a still more aggrieved cadence, as its owner, a paleroung man with a carpet-bag, slowly began to pick himself up. The gipsy, having recovered from the sudden  collision, was about to hurry on without paying the slightest attention to the injured owner of the carpet-bag, when that individual, catching a full view of her face, burst out in amaze- ment.    "Why, if it ain't Mrs. Ketura! Well, if this isn't real surprising! How do you do? 1 am glad to see you, I'm sure; and I dare say it was all an accident. I hope you have been quite well since I saw you last, ma'am," said the pale young man, politely; "I've been very well my- self, I'm obliged to you." "Who are you?" said the gipsy, impatiently, scanning his mild, freckled frontispiece with her stilletto-like eyes. "Why, you haven't forgotten me, have you'?" said the young man, straightening out his beaver, which had got stove in during the late catastro- phe; "why, I'm O. C. Toosypegs! I daresay you didn't expect to see me here, but we haven't left England yet, you know. We're going the day after to-morrow, Aunt Prisciller and me; and I'm glad of it too, for this here London ain't what it's cracked up to be. I had my pocket picked at least twenty times since I came here. They took my watch, my pocket- book, and my jack-knife, and 'didn't even leave me so much as a pocket-handkerchief to wipe my nose." And Mr. Toosypegs, who evidently considered this the climax of human depravity, gave his hat a fierce thump, that sent that as- tonished head-piece away down over his eyes with rather alarming suddenness. "I don't know yoa-let me pass," said the gipsy, harshly, trying to walk away from him; but Mr. Toosypegs quickened his pace likewise, and kept up with her. "Why, you do know me, Mrs. Ketura, and I hope you haven't went and forgot me so soon," said Mr. Toosypegs in a deeply-injured tone, "Don't you recollect that nasty wet night, a lit- tle over two years ago, when you was walking along the north road, and I made Mr. Harkins, who is a real nice man, only a little hasty at times, take you in and drive you to town ' You didn't seem in very good spirits that night, and I was real sorry for your trouble-I really was, Mrs. Ketura." The gipsy made no reply.  Bitterly her thoughts went back to that night-tliat long, desolate, sorrowful night-when she had bidden her son a last farewell. She had ihad her re- \ venge; she had wrenched cries of anguish from those who had tortured her, but oh! what re- venge could remove the gnawing at her heart? what vengeance could restore her her son? With one of those hollow groans that seem rending the heart they burst from, her head dropped on her bosom. There was a world of anguish and despair in the sound, and it went riht to the simple heart of the really kind Mr. Toosy. pegs. "There, now, don't take on so about it," he began, piteously; "' it's real distressing to listen to such groans as that. Everything happens for the best, you know; and though, as I remark- ed at the time to my friend Mr. Harkins, it was real disagreeable of them to take and send your   son away, when he didn't want to go, still it can't be helped now, and there's no use what- ever in making a time about it. As my uncle, who hadn't the pleasure of your acquaintance, has left me two thousand pounds, I should be real glad to aid you as far as money will go, and you needn't mind about giving me your note for it either; I ain't particular about get- ting it back again, I'm very much obliged to you." During this well-meant attempt at consola- tion, not one word of which the gipsy had heard, Mr. Toosypegs had beeir fumbling uneasily in his pockets, and shifting his carpet-bag in a fid- gety manner from one hand to the other. Hav- ing managed at last to extract a plump pocket- book from some mysterious recess inside of his coat, he held it out toward his companion; but she, with her eyes gloomily fixed on the ground, seemed so totally oblivious of both himself and it, that, with a comical expression of distress, he was forced to replace it again where it came from. "Now I wouldn't mind it so much if I was you, you know,"' he resumed, in a confidential tone. "Where's the good of making a time when things can't be helped? I'm going to sail for America the day after to-morrow, in a great, nasty, tarry ship, and I would like to see you in good spirits before I go. It would malte it a great deal nicer if I thought you weren't tak- ing on." The last words caught her ear. She lifted her haggard face and fixed her piercing eyes so suddenly full upon him, that, with an alarmed "Lord bless me!" he sprang back and gazed upon her in evident terror. "Going to America, are you?-to-morrow?" she asked rapidly. "Why - a-no, sir - that is, yes, ma'am," stammered Mr. Toosypegs, his self-possession considerably shaken by those needle - like glances. With lightning-like rapidity there flashed through the gipsy's mind a scheme. London was no longer a safe place for her; she was liable to be arrested, now, at any moment, and with her half-completed revenge this was-not to be thought of. She felt her best course would be, to leave England altogether for some years; and she determined to avail herself of the pres- ent opportunity. f If I go with you to America, will you pay  my passage?" she abruptly asked, transfixing Mr. Toosypegs with her lightning eyes.  "'Why, of course, with a great deal of pleas-  ure," responded the young man, with alacrity,  "it will make it real pleasant to have you with  us during the passage, I'm sure," said Mr. Toosy-  pegs, who felt politeness required of him to say as much, though his conscience gave him a se- vere twinge for telling such a fib. "Perhaps,.  as we start the day after to-morrow, you wouln't,    mind coning and stopping with us, until then, so's to have things handy. Aunt Prisciller will be delighted to make your acquaintance, I know," concluded Mr. Toosypegs, whose conscience, at this announcement, gave him another rebuking pinch. "' There will be two children to bring," said the gipsy, hurriedly; "I must go for them." "Half price," muttered Mr. Toosypegs, sotto voce, " what will Aunt Prisciller say?" "I will meet you here by daybreak the day after to-morrow," said the gipsy, stopping sud- denly. "Will you come?" "Why, certainly," responded Mr. Toosypegs, who was too much in awe of her to refuse her anything she might ask, "I'll be in this precise spot by daybreak the day after to- morrow, though I don't approve of early rising' as a gen- eral thing ; it ain't nice at all." "Very well, I will be here-you need come with me no farthelr," said Ketura, dismissing him with a wave of her hand; and ere he could ex- postulate at this summary dismissal, she turned a corner and disappeared, That night a trusty messenger was dispatched by Ketura to the gipsy camp for little Ray- mond, who arrived the following night. His free gipsy life seemed to agree wonderfully well with that young gentleman, who appeared in the highest possible health and spirits his rosy cheeks and sparkling black eyes all aglow from the woodland breezes. Five years old now, he was tall and well grown for his age, could climb the highest trees like a squirrel, set bird-traps and rabbit-snares, and was as lithe, supple, and active as a young deer. The. eyes of Ketura lit up with pride as she gazed upon him; and for the first time the idea occurred to her' that he might live to avenge his father's wrongs when she was dead. She would bring him up to hate all of the house of De Courcy; that hate should grow with his growth until it should become the one ruling passion and aim of his life, swamping, by its very intensity, every other feeling. Master Raymond, who seemed quite as chary of caresses as his gradmother herself, met her with a good deal of indifference; but no sooner did he see little Erminie, than a rash, and vio- lent attachment was the result. Accustomed to the dirty, dusky,'gipsy babies, who rolled all day unheeded in the grass, this little snowy- skinned, golden haired, 'lue-eyed infant seemedc so wondrously lovely that he had to 'give her sundry pokes with his finger to convince him- self she was real, and not an illusion. Miss Er- minie did not seem at all displeased by these attentions, but favored him with a coquettish smile, and with her finger in her rosy mouth, gave him every encouragement he could reason- ably expect on so short an acquaintance. Being left alone together, Master Raymond, who did not altogether approve of her wasting her time,     lying blinking at him in her cradle, began to think it was only a common act of politeness she owed him to get up, and seeing no symp- toms of any such intention on the young lady's part, he resolved to give her a hint to that effect. Catchingl her, therefore, by one little plump leg and arm, he. gave her a jerk that swung her completely out, and then grasping her by the waist, he dumped her down on the floor beside him, upon which she immediately clapped another finger in her mouth; and there they sat, silently staring at each other, until both were dispatched to bed. Early in the morning Master Raymond and Miss Erminie found themselves awakened from an exceedingly sound slumber, and undergoing the unpleasant operation of dressing. The young gentleman kieked and plunged manfully for a while, but finding it all of no use, he gave up the struggle aid yielded to fate in a second nap. Erminie, after crying a little, followed his example; and Ithen the gipsy, taking her in her arms, and foll!)wed ly one of the tribe bear- ing the sleeping Raynond, hurried to the tryst- ing place. There they found Mr. Toosypegs, looking green and sea-sick already, from anticipation. In a few words the gipsy gave him to under- stand that she wished to go on board immedi- ately--a proposition which rather pleased Mr. Toosypegs, who was inwardly afraid she might desire to be brought to his house, where she would be confronted by Miss Toosypegs, of whonm le stood in wholesome awe. Half an hour brought them to the pier where the vessel lay, and consigning little Raymond to the care of one of the female passengers, she sought her berth with Erminie. UUntil England was out of sight she still dreaded detection; and therefore, she sat, With feverish impatience, long- ing to catch the last glimpse of the land wherein she was born. She watched every passing face with suspicion, and in every outstretched hand she saw some one about, to snatch her prize from her ; and involuntarily her teeth set, and she held the sleeping child In a fiercei clasp,. Once she caught a passing glimpse of Mr. Toosypegs, a victim to " green and yellow mel- ancholy " i in its most aggravated form, as he walked toward his berth in, an exceedingly limp state of mind and shirt-collar. Mr. Toosy- pegs knew what sea-sickness was from experi- ence; he had a distinct and sad recollection of what lie endured the last time he crossed the Atlantic, and with many an ominous foreboding he ensconced himsel in an arm-chair in the cabin, while the vessel rose and fell as she danced over the waves. Silently lie sat, as men sit who await the heaviest blow Fate has in store for th'en. ; Suddenly a stentorian voice from the  deckerlse high above the creaking and straining 1 of ropes, and trampling of feet, with the thrill-  ing words, "Heave ahead " Mr.. Toosypegs gave   a convulsive start, an expression of intensest an- guish passed over his face, and suddenly clapping his handkerchief to his. mouth, he fled into the s silent depths of the state-room, where, hidden t from human view, what passed was never known. t "Well, I never!" ejaculated a tall, thin, sharp , female, with asour face, and a catankerous ex* pression of countenance generally, who sat with r her hands folded over a shiny brown holland gown, as upright as a church-steeple and about I as grim. "Well, I never, going hand being sea sick hafore he's ten minutes hon board, which is something none of the family hever 'ad be- fore, hand I've been hover to Hireland without hever thinking of such a thing; lying there on the broad hof his back, leaving me a poor lone voman, and groanin' hevery time this dratted hold ship gives a plunge, which is something that's not pleasant for a hunprotected female to be, having a lot hof disagreeable sailors, smelling of onkum and tar and sich, has if he couldn't wait to be sea-sick. hafter we'd land. Ugh!"And Miss Priscilla Dorothea Toosy- pegs-for she it was-knit up her face in a bris- tle of the sourest kinks, and punctuated her rather rambling speech by sundry frowns of the most intensely acid character. To describe that voyage is not my intention; suffice it to say, that it was an unusually speedy one. On the following morning, the gipsy had appeared on deck with little Erminie, whose gentle beauty attracted universal attention, as her nurse's dark, stern, moody face did fear and dread. Many hands were held out for her, and Ketura willingly gave her up, and consented to the request of a pleasant-faced young girl who offered to take charge of her until they should laud. Master Raymond had already become prime favorite with all on board, more particu- larly with the sailors; and could soon run like a monkey up the shrouds into the rigging. At first he condescended to patronize Eilminie oc- casionally; but' on discovering she could not climb-in fact, could not even stand on her feet properly-he 'began to look down on her with a sort of lofty contempt. On the fifth day, Mr. Toosypegs made his appearance on deck, a walking skeleton. Everybody laughed at his wobegone looks; and so deeply disgusted was, Miss Priscilla by his sea-green visage;, that it seemed doubtful whether she would ever ac- knowledge the relationship again. As every one but Miss Priscilla laughed at him, and she scolded him unmercifully, the un- happy young man was forced to fly for relief to Ketura, whose silent grimness was quite de- lightful compared with either of the others. Feeling that she owed him something for his kindness, she listened in silence to all his dole- ful complaints; and this so won upon the sus- ceptible heart of that unfortunate youth, that he contracted quite an affection for her-just as a {    lap-dog has been known to make friends with a tiger before now. "What do you intend to' do when you get to America, Mrs. Ketura," he asked one day as they sat together on the deck. "I have not thought about it," she answered, indifferently. "You'll have to do something, you know," iqsinuated Mr. Toosypegs. "People always do something in America. They're real smart people there. I'm an American, Mrs Ketura," added Mr. Toosypegs, complacently. A grim sort of smile, half contempt, half pity, passed over the face of the gipsy. "Telling fortunes pays pretty well, I guess, but then it isn't a nice way to make a living * and besides that, little baby would be real in- convenient to lug round with you, not to speak of that dreadful little boy who climbs up that maintopgallant bowsprit, -or whatever the nasty steep thing's name is No; I don't think telling fortunes would be exactly the thing." "I shall manage some way; don't bother me about it," said the gipsy, impatiently. "What do you say to coming with us to Dis- mal Hollow? There's plenty of room around there for you; and I should be real glad to have you near, so that I could drop in to see you now and then." Mr. Toosypegs was sincere in saying he would like it this time; for her stern, fierce character had a strange sort of fascination for him, and he really was beginning to feel a strong attach- ment to her. The real kindliness of his tone, his simple generosity, touched even the granite heart of the hard gipsy queen. Lifting her eyes, that all this time had been moodily gazing'into the dashing, foam-crested waves, she said, in a soft- er voice than he ever expected to hear from her lips: "I thank you and accept your offer, and more for their sake, however, than my own "-pointing to the children. "I could make my way E through the world easily enough, but they are young and tender, and need care. I will go  with you." She turned away as she ceased, as if there  was no more to be said on the subject, and  again looked fixedly down into the wide waste  of waters. "It's real good of you to say so, Mrs. Ketura,  and I'm very much obliged to you," said Mr. Toosypegs, with a brightening up of his pallid features. "  We will land at New York, and af-  ter that, go to Dismal Hollow ia Baltimore, 1 which means, Mrs. Ketura," said Mr. Toosy-  pegs, interrupting himself, to throw in a word h of explanation, "4 by way of' It's Latin, or Greek, I guess, though I never learned either.  Ugh I ain't Latin nice, though!" added the own- g er of the sickly complexion, with a grimace of g intensest disgust. "I tried it for six weeks, one a   a time, with an apothecary; and then, as it be. gan to throw me into a decline, I gave it up. at Not any more. I'm very much obliged to you." ts Three days after that, the vessel touched the wharf at New York. And after two days' delay, I, which Mr. Toosypegs required to get his " land legs " on, they set off for Baltimore. "In due course of time, that goodly city was o reached, and one week after, the whole party 't arrived at Judestown-a thriving country town on the sea-coast, called then after the first set- tler, but known by another name, now. {, Driving through the town, they reached the suburbs, and entered a more thinly-settled part , of the country. Gleaming here and there ; through the trees, they could catch occasional - glimpses of the bright waters of the Chesa- peake, and hear the booming of the waves on the low shore. Turning an abrupt angle in the road, they drove down a long, steep, craggy path, toward a gloomy, mountain gorge, at sight of which a Mr. Toosypegs so far forgot himself as to take off his hat and wave it over his head, with a fee- ble "Hooray for Dismal Hollow!" which so I scandalized that strict Christian, his aunt, that she gave him a look beneath which he wilted down, and was heard no more. "What an ugly old plade I won't go there n' exclaimed little Raymond, with a strong expres- sion of contempt. And truly it did not look very inviting. The mountain, which, by some convulsion of na- ture, seemed to have been violently rent in twain, was only passable by a narrow, danger- ous bridle-path. Down in the very bottom of this deep, gloomy gorge, stood an old, time- worn building of what had once been red brick, with dismal, .lack, broken window shutters, that at some far-distant time might have been green. A range of dilapidated barns and outhouses spread away behind, and in front, some hundred yards distant, ran a slender rivulet, which every spring became swollen into a foaming torrent. Here the sun never penetrated no living crea- ture was to be seen, and a more gloomy and dismal spot could hardly have been found in the wide world. Even the gipsy queen looked round with a sort of still amaze that any one could be found to live here, while Miss Priscilla, elevated both hands in horror, and in the dis- may of the moment was surprised into the pro- fanity of exclaiming: ", Great Jemimi 1" 'It's the ugliest old place ever was, and I won't go therel" reiterated Master Raymond, kicking viciously at Mr. Toosypegs, to whom, with an inward presentiment, he felt he owed his coming. "It is rather dull-looking, now," said Mr. Toosypegs, apologetically; "  but wait till we get it fixed up a little, after. a spell. The nig- ges have let things go to waste since I went away."     '" lumph! Should think they had!' said Mii. Priscilla, with a disdainful sniff. ' Noth- ingi but treeses, and rockses, and mountainses split hin two; hand what your blessed father, which lies now a hangel in some nasty, swampy graveyard, could have been thinking habout, with that 'orrid little river hafore the door, to build a 'ouse in sich a spot, which must hoverflow hey- ery time hit rains, his more than I can tell- drowning us bin hour beds, as it will be sure to do, some fine morning or hother. Wah! wah "' And with this final expression of disgust, given in a tone of scorn no words can express, the an- cient virgin suffered herself to be handed from the wagon by her dutiful nephew, and deposited in a mud-puddle before the door, to the great benefit of her stockings and temper. The noise of wheels-a very unusual noise there-brought some half-score of lean, hungry- looking curs from some unseen region, who in- stantly began a furious yelping and barking. Miss Priscilla set up a series of short, sharp, lit- tle screams, and jumped up on a rock in mortal terror; little Ermiuie, terrified by the noise; began to cry; Master Raymond yelled to the dogs at the top of his lungs, and plunged head- formost in among them; Mr. Toosypegs went through all the phases of the potential mood- "exhorting, entreating, commanding - and a general uproar ensued that would have sham- ed Babel. The hubbub and din roused the inmates, at last, as it might very easily have done the Sev- en Sleepers themselves. A shuffling tread of feet was heard within, and then a trembling voice demanded: "Who dar?' "It's mne. /Open the door, for goodness' sake!" exclaimied Mr. Toosypegs, in an agony ,of supplication.  "We's got yarms, and dar ain't notting in de house for you to rob, so you'd better go wa;.," said a quavering voice, that evidently strove in vain to be courageous. "Will you open the door? I tell you it's on- ly mie!" shouted the deeply-exasperated Mr. Toosypegs, seizing the lhandle of the door and giving it a furious shake. Cautiously the door was partly opened, a ter- riled voice was heard to whisper.; "You hit dem wid de poker arter I fire," and then the trowning muzzles of two huge horse-pistols met their dismayed eyes.  "Don't shoot-it's E!" yelled the terror- istricken Mr. Toosypegs; but his words were 'lost in the banig! bang of the pistols as they went oft.  O Lord, have percy on me! I'm shot!" shrielked the unhappy Mr. Toosypegs, as he dropped like a stone in the mud, and lay mo- tionless. "f Hand me de blunderinghuss-quick, Pomp! Dars more o' dem," again whispered the chat-   tering voice; and once more the warlike in- dividual within blazed away, while Miss Pris- cilla lay kicking in the stronguet hysterics, and Mr. Toosypegs, flat on his face in the mud, lay as rigid and still as a melancholy corpse. So completely amazed was the gipsy queen. by all this, that she stood motionless, with Er- minie in her arms. Now the door was slowly opened, and a negro's face, gray with terror, was protruded. H is round, goggle eyes, start- ing from his head with fear, fell on the prostrate forms of Miss Priscilla and her unfortunate nephew. "Two ob dem gone, bress de Lord!" piously ejaculated Cuffee. "It takes me for to do de bisinpes. Well, bress Mars'r! if I ain't had a fight for't." Then catching sight of the gipsy, he paused suddenly, and jumped back, and rais- ed the discharged blunderbuss, but no effort could make it go off a second time. "Are you mad' fellow?" exclaimed the deep, commanding voice of Ketura.  "Would you murder your master?"  "Young mars'r hab gone; an' ef you don't clar right out' dar'll be more blood shed!" ex- claimed the negro, still keeping his formidable weapon cocked. "I tell you this is your master!" impatiently exclaimed Ketura. "' He arrived to-day; and now you have shot him." Slowly the blunderbuss was lowered, as if the conviction that she might be speaking the truth was slowly coming home to the mind of her hearer. Cautiously he left his post of danger and approached his prostrate foe. Gathering courage from his apparent lifelessness, he at last ventured to turn him over, and all'smeared and clotted with mud, the pallid features of Mr. Toosypegs were upturned to the light. His arms were stietched stifflyouthy his side, as much like a corpse as possible; his eyes were tightly closed; ditto his lips, all covered with soft mud. There was no mistaking that face. With a loud howl of distress, the negro threw himself upon the lifeless form of poor Mr. Toosypegs. "Ah! You've got your elbow-in the pit of my stomach!" exclaimed the corpse, with a sharp yell of pain. "Can'tyou get out of that, and let me die in peace?" For, the first time in two years, the gipsy, Ketura, laftghed. In fact, they would have been more than mortal who could have beheld that unspeakably-ludicrous scene without doing so. Miss Priscilla stopped her hysterical kicking and plunging, and raised herself on her elbow to look. The negro, with a whoop of joy that might have startled a Shawnee Indian, siezed Mr Too- sypegs, who had shut his eyes and composed himself for death again, save an occasional splutter as the' mud went down his throat, and swinging him over his I soulder as if he had Swngin ' hi over ho    been a limp towel, rushed with him in triumph into the house.  t"He warn't dead, then, hafter hall?" said Miss Priscilla, sharply, in a voice that seemed made of steel-slrings. "Well, I never! Go- ing and fright'ning respectable parties hout their wits with 'orrid black niggers; firing hoff hof pistols hand cannons; lying there in the mud making believe dead; hand shooting me somewhere-for I can feel the balls hinside hof me; sp'iling a good new suit hof clothes, roll- ing there lke a pig, and not dead hafter all; band that there nigger shooting away like mad hall the time, which his a mercy to be thankful for I Wah! wah!" And, with her usual look of sour disgust im- measurably heightened, Miss Priscilla gathered up her own muddy skirts and marched, like a loaded rifle all ready to go off, into a long, bleak, chill, littered hall. Half a dozen frightened darkeys were crouch- ing in the farther corner, and on these Miss Priscilla turned the muzzle of the rifle, and a sharp volley of oddly-jumbled up sentences went off in tones of keenest irony. "Yes; you may stand there, you hugly blackl leecles, hafter shooting us hevery one-though looks ain't hof no consequence in this 'orrid Place; hand hif you don't get 'ung for it some day, my name hain't Priscilla Dorothea Toosy- pegs! Perhaps you'll show me where my nev- vy his, which you've shot so nicely, hand make a fire, hafter keeping hus rolling fin the mud, getting our death liof cold in this 'orrid cold house, which, being a resp*ghle female, hand  not a pig, I hain't used i; hand Hamerica mud hain't the nicesi thing I ever saw for to  eat; so maybe you'll get hus some dinner, and  show me to where my nevvy is, hif you please " concluded Miss Priscilla, in tones of most cut- ting irony. The terrified servants understood enough of 1 this singular address to know Miss Toosypgs e 1 wished for a fire, her dinner, and her nephew. a An old woman, ,therefore, in a gaudy jadra turban, advanced, and led the way up a rickety sa flight of stairs into a comfortless-looking room,  with a damp, unaired odor; where, on a bed, la  the mortal remains of 0. C. Toosypegs, wait the darkey--whose name I may as well say at once was Cupid-giving him a most vigorous  rubbing, which extorted from  the dead man sundytgroans and grimaces, and encouraged an Cup  to still further exertions. The loaded rifle advanced to the bedside, and in a second volley went off. "Come, Horlander Toosypegs, get hupeot out o' that, lying there in thiss musty hold rbom, be face and hall plastered oer with mud, which ten his enough to give you  the rheumatism the bo longest da you live, without the first spark hof ne a fire--so it is!" "I'm dying, Aunt. Priscilla; stay with me to lin   ph the last!" in the faintest whisper, responded Mr. Toosypegs, languidly opening his eyes, and then Lid shutting them again. ed  "DyingP Wah, wah!" grunted Miss Priseil- o- Ia, catching him by the shoulder and shaking ut him with no gentle hand. "Pretty corpse off you'll make, hall hover with mud, hand looks he has much like dying has I do." ae  "De brunderinghuss an' de pissels war onl of loaded wid powder--no shot in 'em at al 'Deed, old mssus, he ain't hurted the fustest I; mite, only he tinks so." ad iHold!" shrieked Miss Prscilla, turning fierce- ul ly upon Cupid. "You impident black nigger, you! to call me hold! Leave the room this n- very minute, hand never let me see your mugly black face hagain!" a  "Come-you are not hur-get up!" said g, Retura, going over to the bed-side, as poor Cu- pid, crest-fallen, slunk away. "Tllere is not a - hair of your head injured. Up with you!" 3  "Am I not shot?" demanded Mr. Toosypegs, a bewildered. "Did the bullet not enter my brain?" t   You never had any for it to enter," said the gipsy, encouragingly. "Look yourself; there k' is neither wound nor blood." II  "No; but it's bleeding inwardly," said Mr. Toosypegs, with a hollow groan ' Oh, Iknow eI'm a dead mail!" "Chut! I have no patience with you! Get up, man! you are as well as ever " impatiently eexclaimed Ketura. Slowly, Mr. Toosypegs, who hIad immense faith in Keturn, lifted first one arm and then another, to see if either were powerless. Satis- fled on this point, he next lifted each leg; and finding, to his great astonishment, that his limbs were all sound, lie carefully began to raise himself up in bed. No torrent of blood follow- ed this desperate attempt, as he expected there would be; and the next minute, Mr. Orlando Toosypegs stood, safe and sound, on the floor, looking about as sheepish a young gentleman as you could find from Maine to Florida. "' You thought you was gone-didn't you?" said the little witch, Rnamond, with a malicious chuckle of delight, as he watched the chop-fall- en hlero of the pallid features. Miss Toosypegs merely contented herself with a look of lofty contempt more withering than words, and then rustled out to rouse up the "hunly black leeches" on the subject of inner and fires. Having succeeded in both objects, especially in the inner department, which Aunt Bob, the presiding deity of the kitchen,: ad got up in sublime tsyle, -Miss Prisella was in soiewhat better humor; and having announced her in- tention of beginning a thorough reformation both out doors and in, turned briskly to her nephew, who sat in a very dejected stute of mind, without so much as a word to say for Jimself, and exclaimed:     "Now, Horlander, the best thing you can do is, to go immediately hand see habout getting a 'ouse for Mrs Ketura hand the children, which would never survive a day hiu this damp hold barn'; besides, being to do some time or bother, may has well be did first has last, hand save the 'spense hof a doctor's bill, which his the hunpleasantest thing hever was stuck hin hany- body's face." Mr. Toosgpegs, who felt he would never more dare to call his soul his own, meekly put on his hat, and said he would go*nd see about a cottage he knew of which would suit Mrs. Ketura to a T. The fact was, he was glad to escape from his aunt; and that good lady, who had classed Mrs. Ketura and the children under the some- what indefinite title of " riff-raff" from the first, was equally anxious to be rid of them. Late that evening, Mr. Toosypegs returned, with. the satisfactory news that he had obtained the cottage, which belonged, he informed them, to a certain Admiral f[avenful, who, not having any particular use for it himself, said they might have it rent free. The cottage was furnished; just as it had been left by its last tenant ; and Mrs. Ketura might pitch her tent there, with a safe conscience, as fast as she liked. "You had better take one of the servants with you, too," said Mr. Toosypegs, good-natur- edl . "We have more than we want, and you will require one to mind the baby, and fetch water, and do chores. 'I think Lucy will do as well as any." Miss Toosypegs frowned at first; but remem- bering, upon second thoughts, that there was al- ready a tribe of useless negroes and dogs, eat- ing them out of house and home, she gave a- sharp assent, at last, to her nephew's arrange- ment. Early the next morning, Mr. Toosypegs, Ke- tura, Raymond, Erminie, and the negress, Lucy,- entered the wagon, and turned their backs upon Dismal Hollow. Half an hour's drive through a forest-road, all aglow with the leafy splendor of early July, brought them to the sea-shore. Far removed from any other habitation, stood a pretty little white-washed cottage, a little fairy-bandbox of a place, on a bank above the sea, nestling like a pearl set in emeralds asit gleamed through a wilderness of vines and shrubs. A wide, dry, arid expanse, overrun witl blue-berry and cran- berry vines, spread before thq door toward the north, as far as the eye coulWach Far in the distance, they could see a huge ouse, of a daz- zling whiteness, unshaded by tree or vine, as it stood in the full glare of the hot sun, dazzling the eye of the gazer. This, Mr. Toosypegs gave them to understand, was the "White Squall," the residence of Admiral Havenful; and the dry plains spreading into the distance were very appropriately known as the "Bar- rens." South and east, a dense forest shut in   the view, and to the west spread out the bound- less sea. ' Now, Mrs. Ketura," said Mr,. Toosypegs, in a mysterious whisper, "you can't live tlpon green vines and blue-berries, nor vet you can't stay in this cottage from morning till night, you know, though I dare. say Aunt Priscilla thinks you can. Therefore you must take this purse- half of which the admiral gave me for you last night, and the other half--well no matter. Then, as you'll want to go to Judestown to market, and to church, sometimes, I'll send over the pony and the old buggy ; but don't you say a word about it to Aunt Priscilla-women don't need to know anything, you know, as they don't  always view things in their proper light; and Aunt Priscilla's queer, any way. If there any- thing else you want, just you send Lucy for it to Dismal Hollow, and you shall have it, Mrs. Ketura, for I'like you real well." "You are very kind," said the gipsy, again touched by his good-nature; "and I hope you will always regard yourself as one of the fam- ily." "Hark you, Mrs. Ketura," said Mr. Toosy- pegs, in a tone of delight. "I certainly will, since you wish it., I'll drop in very often. I'm very much obliged to you." And, waving his hand briskly, Mr. Tooeypegs resumed his seat in the wagon, and drove off again to Dismal Hollow. CHAPTER XV. AFTER MANY DAYS." ' I will paint her as I see her. Ten times have the lilies blown Since she looked upon the sun." - -BROWmING, And ten years passed away. It was a jocund' morning in early spring. From the pine woods came the soft twittering of innumerable birds, filling the air with melody; while the soft, fragrant odor of the tall, swing- ing pines came floating on every passing breeze. The sun rose in unclouded splendor above the dark tree-tops, and the-bright waves of the ,Chesapeake danced and flashed in the golden rays. No sound broke the deep, profound stillness of the wide, dry moor; no living thing, save now and then some solitary bird that skim- med along over the fern, was to be seen. Far away. in every direction nothingl met the eye but the blue unclouded sky above, and the bleak, arid barrens below, that lay hot and dry in the glare of the morning sunshine. Suddenly the sylvan silence of the spot was broken by the clear, sweet .notes of a hunting horn, that startled the echoes far and near, and the next moment the forms of a horse and rider came dashing over the moor. The horse was a splendid animal, a small, jet- black Arabian, with graceful tapering limbs, arching neck, flowing mane, and small, erect O   head, and bright, fiery eyes. His rider was a young girl of some twelve years, who sat her horse like an Arab hunter, and whose dark unique style of beauty merits a wider descrip- tion. She was very slight and rather tall for her age; but with a finely-proportioned figure, dis- played now to the best advantage by her well. fitting riding-habit-which consisted of a shirt of dark-green cloth, and a tight basque of black velvet. Her face was thin and dark, and some- what elfish, but the olive skin was smooth as satin, and deepening with deepest crimson in the thin cheeks and lips. Her forehead was low, broad, and polished; her saucy little nose decid- edly retroussee; her teeth like pearls, and her hands and feet perfect. And then her eyes-such great, black, lustrous, glorious eyes, through which at times a red light shone-such splendid eyes, vailed by long, jetty, silken lashes; and arched by glossy black eyebrows, smooth and shining as water-leeches - eyes full of fun, frolic, freedom, and dauntless daring-eyes that would haunt the memory of the beholder for many a -day. Her hair, "woman's crowning glory," was of intensest-blackness, and cluster- ed in short, dancing curls round her dark, bright, sparkling face. In the shade those curls were of midnight darkness, but in the sunshine, red rings of fire shone through like tiny circlets of flame. She wore a small black-velvet hat, whose long sable plume just touched her warm,  crimson cheek.  Such was the huntress who, with a pistol stuck in her belt, a little rifle swung across her i shoulder, dashed along over the moor, holding 1 the bridle lightly in one hand, and swinging,  jauntily, a silver-mounted riding-whip in the 1 other. As she reached the centre of the moor, she r reined in her horse so suddenly that he nearly reared upright, and then, lifting her little silver a 'ugle again to her lips, she blew a blast that v echoed in notes of clearest melody far over the heath..                  I This time her signal was answered-a loud s shout from a spirited voice met her ear, and in fi another instant another actor appeared upon she scene.  He, too, was mounted, and rode his horse well. ti -Ie was a tall, slender stripling of about fifteen, d Ind in some ways not unlike the girl. He had f the same dark complexion, the same fiery black eyes and hair; but there all resemblance ceased. Ii Che look of saucy drollery on her face was re- m placed on his by a certain fierce pride-an ex-  pression at once haughty and daring. He was  Iandsome exceedingly, with regular, classical features, a perfect form, and had that mark of Ligh birth, the small and exquisitely-shaped ear, ti and thin curving nostril. Erect he sat in his " siddle, like a young prince of the blood. so Bon maim, Monsieur Raymond!" shouted  a   a the girl, as he gallantly raised his cap and let er the morning breeze liftht ;dark locks. "I k, thought the sun would not find you in bed the p- first morning after your return home. How does your serene highness find yourself?" er  "In excellent health and spifitsa I'm very s- much obliged to you-as our frienid Mr. Toosy- 1- pegs would say, answered Master Raymond, At for he it is, as he laughingly rode up beside her. "k "Where's 'Ranty?" -  In bed. That fellow's as lazy as sin, and is would rather lie there, sleeping like some old n grampus than enjoy a ride over the hills the , nest morning that ever was." -  lHow do you know grampuses are fond of r sleeping?" said Raymond. h  "iVow do I know?" said the girl, in a high i key, getting somewhat indignant. "I know d very well they are I Doesn't Miss Toosypegs,  d when she's talking about Hollander sleeping in d the morning, always say he's 'snoring lie a , grampus?' and if Miss Priscilla doesn't know, t that's been to England, and every place else, I would like to know who does I'- "Well, I've been to England, too," said Ray- mond. "Yes, and a great deal of good it's done you!, said the young lady, contemptuously. "But that's the way always. Ever since Ranty and you went to college, you've got so stuck up, and full of Latin, and Greek, and stuff, there's no standing either of you. Last night, Ranty had to go and ask Aunt Deb for the bootjack in Latin, and when she couldn't understand him, he went round kicking the cat and my nine beautiful kittens, in the most awful manner that ever was; and swearing at her in Greek-the hateful wretch!" And Miss Petronilla Lawless scowled at Ray- mond, who laughed outright. "Oh, come now, Pet, don't be angry   he said. "Where's the use of quarreling the very first morning we meet." "Quarreling!" repeated Miss Pet; shortly; "I'm sure I don't want to quarrel; but you're so aggravating. Boys always are just the hate- fulest things--" "Most hateful, Miss Lawless," amended 'Ray- mond, gravely. "There's a great deal of good sense but bad grammar in that sentence. I  don't like boys myself half so well as I do girls- for instance, you're worth a dozen of Ranty." "Yes-; you say so now, when Ranty ain't listening; but if you wanted to go off on some mischief or other, I guess you wouldn't think of me. But that's the way I'm always treated- pitched round like an old shoe, without even daring to say a word for myself." This melancholy view of things, more par- ticularly the idea of Miss Pet's not having a "  word to say for herself," struck Raymon as so inexpressibly ludicrous, that he gave vent to a shout of laughter.     "Yes, you may laugh!" said Pet, indignant- ly; "but it's true, and you ought to'be asham- ed of yourself, making fun of people this way. I am not going to tand being imposed upon much longer, eithert If Miss Priscilla keeps snubbing ann putting down Mr. Toosypegs all the time that ain't no reason why I'm to be snubbed and put down too-is it?" "' Why, Pet, what's the matter with you this morning?" exclaimed Raymond. 1' I never knew you so cross; has the judge scolded you, or have you bagged no game, or has your pony cast a shoe, or-" "No, none of them things has happened!" broke in Pet, crossly. "I suppose you'd keep on or, or, or-ing till doomsday, if I let you I It's worse still, and I wouldn't mind much if you shot me on the spot!" said. Pet, in a tone of such deep desperation that Raymond looked at her in real alarm. "Why, Pet, what has happened?" he inquir- ed, anxiously. "Nothing really serious, I hope?" "Yes, it is really serious. I'm going to be sert to school-there now!" said Pet, as near crying as an elf could be. "Oh! is that all?" said Raymond, immeasur- ably relieved. "Well, I don't see anything so very dreadful in that."  "Don't you, indeed!" exclaimed Pet, with flashing eyes "Well, if there's anything more dreadful, I'd like to know what it is! To be cooped up in a great dismal dungeon of a school- house from one year's end to 'tother, and never get a chance to sneeze without asking leave first. I won't go, either, if I die for it!" "And so you'll grow up and not know B from a cow's horn," said Raymond. "I am sure you need to go bad enough." "I don't need it either!" angrily retorted Pet. "I can read first-rate now, without spell- ing more -than half the words; and write-I wish you could see how beautifully I can make some of the letters!" "Oh! I saw a specimen yesterrday-Minnie showed it to me-looled as if a hen had dipped her'foot in an ink-bottle and clawed it over the paper." : Why you horrid, hateful, sassy-" "Abandoned, impertinent young man!" in- terrupted Raymond. "There! I have helped you out with it. And now look here, Pet, how do you expect to be raised to the dignity of my wife some day, if you don't learn somethingl? Why, when e are married, you'll have to make your mark 1"  "I've a good mipnd to do that now with my whip!" exclaimed Pet, flourishing it in danger- ous proximity to his head. "Your wife, indeed  I guess not I'm to be a president's lady some day, Aunt Deb says. Catch me marrying you!" ' Well, that will be your loss. Where is the judge going to send you?" "Why, he says to the Sacred Heart; but I   ain't gone yet! I'd a heap sooner go to Judea- town, with Minnie, to that school where all the boys and girls go together. O Ray! there are just the nicest boys ever was there-'specially one with the beautifulest red cheeks, and the loveliest bright buttons on his coat ever you seen!" And Pet's eyes sparkled at the recollection. "Who is he?" said Raymond, who did not look by any means so delighted as Pet fanced he should. "His name's Bobby Brown; and only he's all, as yellow as the yolk'of an egg'ever since he had the ja'nders, he'd be real pretty. But I'm get- ting hungry, Ray. I'll race you to the cottage, and bet you anything I'll beat you!" "Done!" cried Ray, catching the excitement now sparkling in the dark, brilliant face of the little fay beside him; and crushing his cap down over his thick curls, he bounded after her as she dashed away. But Pet was better mounted, and the best rider of the two; and a ringing, triumphant laugh came borne tantalizing to his ears as she dis- tanced him by full twenty yards, and galloped up to the little white cottage on the Barrens. "Fairly beaten!" he said, laughing, as he sprang off. "I am forced to own myself con- quered, though I hate to do it." Though he laughed, his look of intense mor- tification showed how galling was defeat. "Ahem! And how do you expect to be raised to the dignity of my husband some day, if you don't learn to ride better? Why, when we're married, I'll have to give you lessons!" said Pet, demurely; though her wicked eyes were twinkling with irrepressible fun under their long lashes. "Oh, I see!" said Ray, gayly. "Poetical justice, eh? Paying me in my own coin? Well, if you can beat me in riding, you can't in any- thing else!" "Can't I, though?" said Pet, defiantly. "Just you try target-shooting, or pulling a stroke-oar with me, and you'll see! Schools where they teach you the Greek for bootjack ain't the best places for learning them sort of things, I reck- on "    - The thunder of horses' hoofs had by this time brought another personage to the stage. It was Erminie-" sweet Erminie," the little beauty; and heiress of a princely fortune and estate. The promise of Erminie's childhood had been more than fulfilled. Wondrously lovely she was! How could the child of Lord Ernest Vii- liers and Lady Maude Percy be otherwise? She had still the same snowy skin of her infancy, softlyand brightly tinged with the most delicate pink on the rounded cheeks; her face was per- fectly oval, and almost transparent; her eyes were of the deepest, darkest violet hue, her long curls, that reached nearly to her waist,   were like burnished gold, and snow-white fore- head and tapering limbs were perfect. In spite of the difference between them, though one was dark and impetuous, the other fair and gentle, yet there was a resemblance between Raymond and Erminie. You could see it most plainly when they smiled; it was the smile of Lady Maude that lit up both faces with that strange, nameless beauty. "O Pet! I'm so glad you've come!" she joy- fully exclaimed. "Guess who's here?" "Who? Ranty?" said Pet. "No, indeed. Mr. Toosypegs. He heard Ray was come, and rode over this morning, to see he." "Oh, I must see Mr. Toosypegs!" exclaimed Ray, laughing, as he bounded past the two girls, and sprang into the house. It was a neat, pleasant little sitting-room, with white-muslin blinds in the windows, that were already darkened with vines; clean, straw mat- ting on the floor, and chairs, table, and ceiling fairly glistening with cleanliness. There was a wide fireplace opposite the door, filled with fra- grant pine-boughs; and sitting in a low rocking- chair of Erminie's, in the corner, was our old friend, Mr. 0. C. Toosypegs, perfectly unchang- ed in every respect since we saw him last. "Why, Mr. Toosypegs, how do you do? I hope you have been quite well since I saw you last?" cried the spirited voice of Ray, as he grasped Mr. Toosypegs' hand, and gave it a cor- dial shake. "Thank you, Master Raymond, I've been quite well, I'm very much obliged to you," said Mr. Toosypegs, wriggling faintly in his grasp. "So is Miss Toosypegs, so is Aunt Bob, and all the rest of the family-I'm very much obliged  to you." "Dogs and all, I hope, Orlando," said Pet, as, she entered. "Yes, Miss Pet, the dogs are quite well, I'm  obliged to you. I hope you feel pretty well yourself?"  "No, I ain't, then. I'm not well at all. I've  been in a state of mind all the week, and there's ] no telling how long it may last." , "Good gracious I you don't say so!" said the I alarmed Mr. Toosypegs. "It's not' Anything v dangerous, I hope?"            t "Well, people generally think the small-pox v is dangerous!" began Pet, with a sort of gloomy j sternness; when she was interrupted by Mr. Toosypegs, who, seizing his hat, rushed to the c door, shrieking out:  "The small-poxl Oh my gracious I Why, t Miss Pet, how could you go to come here, and t give it to us all like this,? Good gracious I for to think of being all, full of holes likea pota- g to-steamer " said Mr. Toosypegs, wiping the g cold perspiration off his face.  "But the small-pox ain't no circumstance to b my trouble," went on Pet, as if she hadn't heard d him. "I'm going to be sent to school!" *    ' "Come back, Mr. Toosypegs; she hasn't got -the small-pox," said Ray, laughing. There is not the slightest danger, I assure you. Pet was only using an illustration that time. i  "Good gracious 1" exclaimed Mr. Toosypegs, dropping into a chair, and wiping his face with rhis handkerchief, "if you didn't pretty near scare the life out of me!" "Well, you wouldn't be thefirst one I've seared the life out ofl" said Pet, swinging her riding- whip. "I'm apt to astonish people now and then!" "'I should think so," said Ray. "Do you re- member the night she coaxed you out sailing with her, Mr. Toosypegs, and upset the boat; and then added insult to injury by pulling you on shore by the hair of your head? That was an awful trick, Pet." "I haven't got it out of my bones yet," said Mr. Toosypegs, mournfully. "I never expected such treatment from Miss Pet, I'm sure; and I don't know what I had ever done to deserve it." "Well, don't be mad, Orlando. I'll never do it again," said Pet, in a deeply-penitent tone. "But I say, Minnie, when are we going to have breakfast? I've an awful appetite this ifom- ing." "In a moment. Hurry, Lucy," said Er- minie, as she entered the room. "I was just up stairs, bringing grandmother her breakfast." "Hem! How is the old lady?" inquired Miss Pet. "As well as usual. She hardly ever comes down stairs now. Do hurry, Lucy. Miss Law- less will soon be starved, if you keep on so slowly!" "Lor' sakes I is hurryin', Miss Minnie," said Lucy, as she bustled in, drew out a small, round table, laid the cloth, and prepared to ar- range the breakfast-service. "'Spect dat ar' little limb t'inks folks ought to git up de. night afore, to have breakfast ready time nuff for her," muttered Lucy to herself, looking daggers at Pet Lawless, who, swinging her riding-hat in one hand and her whip in the other, watched Lucy's motions with a critical eye. Erminie, with her sunny face and ready hands, assisted in the arrangements; and soon the whole party were assembled round the table, doing ample justice to Lucy's morning meal. And while they were. thus engaged, .I shall claim your patience for a moment, dear reader, while we east a brief retrospective glance over the various Changes that have occurred during those ten years. By the kind care of good-natured Mr. Toosy- gegs, and his friend, Admiral Havenful, the gipsy Ketura had been amply provided for As Raymond and Ermninie grew up, they had been sent to Judestown to school, with the chil- dren of Judge Lawless, whose daughter, Miss Pet, has already been introduced to the reader.     The Jark, gloomy recluse, Ketura, was an ob- ject. of dreafl and dislike to the neighborhood around. She shunned and avoided them, lived her own inward life independent of them all, and was therefore hated by them. And when, about a year previous to the present time, she received a severe paralytic stroke, from the ef- fects of which she never fully recovered, very little sorrow was felt or expressed. Sweet, gen- tle little Erminie was, however, a favorite with all, and so was the bold, bright, high-spirited Raymond, to whom the somewhat eccentric old Admiral Haverful took such a fancy that he in- sisted on sending him to college with hit nephew Ranty, or Randolph Lawless. To college, there- fore, the boys went; and Erminie remained at the Barrens, and went every fine day to Judes- town to the district school, sometimes, but very rarely, accompanied by Pet Lawless; for that wild young lady voted schools and school teach- ers and "Committee men," unmitigated bores, all, and preferred her own "sweet will" and her pony Starlight to suffering through "readin', writin,' and refmetic." In vain her father, the judge, stormed, and threatened her with all sorts of calamities. Pet, metaphysically speak- ing, snapped her finger in the face of all au- thority; and the more they wanted her to go, the more she wouldn't, though she did offer to do her best to learn if they would let her go with Ray and Ranty. But gaiters were things forbidden inside the college gates; and besides, Ranty very ungallantlv protested that all girls in general, and "our'Pet" in particular, were nothing but " pests," and that he wouldn't have her near him at any price. Master Ranty Law- less did not like the female persuasion, and once gruffly announced that his idea of Heaven was, a place where boys could do as they liked, and where there were no girls. So as Pet had no mother to look after her, and queened it over the servants at home, she grew up pretty much as she liked, and was noted far and near as the wildest, maddest, skip-over-the-moon madcap that ever threw a peaceable community into convulsions. This much being premised, it is only neces- sary to say that Ray and Ranty had returned from college for a few months' vacation, the day previous to the commencement of this chapter, and then go on with our story.  "When is Miss Priscilla coming over, Mr. Toosypegs 1" said Erminie, as she filled for the third time his cup with fragrant, golden coffee. "'Morrer evening," replied Mr. Toosypegs, speaking with his mouth full; "she's going to bring you a parcel of muslin things to work for her." "The collar and caps she was speaking of, I guess," said Erminie, with her pleasant smile. "How in the world, Ermie," exclaimed Pet, "do you find time to work for everybody. I never saw you a moment idle yet."   "Well, it's pleasanter to be doing something,' said Erminie; "and besides, Miss Priscilla can't I do fne sewing, her eyes are so weak, you know. I can't bear to sit still and do nothing; I like to sew, or read, or something." "Ugh! sewing's the most horrid thing," said Pet, with a shrug; "I don't mind reading a pretty story to pass time now and then; but to sit down and go stitch-stitch--stitehing, for hours steady-well, I know I'd soon be in a strait-jacket if I tried it, that's all! I was reading a real nice book the other night." "What was it? asked Ray.' "I should like to see the book you would like to read." "Well, there ain't many I like, but oh! this one was ever so nice. It was all about a hate- ful old Jew who lent money to a man that wanted to go somewhere a-courting; and then this Jew wanted to cut off a pound of his flesh, to eat, I expect-the nasty old cannibal! And then this lady, I forget her name, came and dressed herself up in men's clothes, and got him -the fellow who went courting, you know-off somewheres. Oh, it was splendid! I'll lend you the book sometime, Minnie." "Why it must have been the ' Merchant of Venice' you read," said Ray, " though such a jumbled up account of it as that, I never heard. I'll go over for the book to-morrow and read it to Min, if she cares about hearing it." Before Erminie could reply, a surprised ejac- ulation from Pet made her turn quickly round. Ray's eyes wandered in the same direction, while Mr. Toosypegs sprung from his seat in terror, thereby badly scalding himself with the hot coffee at the sight which met his astonished eyes. CHAPTER XVI MASTER   RANTY. "A rare compound of oddity, frolic, and fun." -GOLDSMTH. A little, old decrepit woman, bent double with age, leaning on a staff, and shaking with palsy, stood as suddenly before them as if she had sprung up through the earth. Herdress was the most astonishing complication of rags that ever hung together on a human back be- fore. A long, old-fashioned cloak that, a hun- dred years before, had probably been all the rage, swept behind her; and as it trailed along, seemed in imminent danger of throwing the un- fortunate old lady over her own head, every minute. A brown, sunburnt face, half hidden in masses of coarse gray hairs peered wildly out; and from under a pair of bushy, over- hanging gray eyebrows, gleamed two keen, needle-like eyes, as sharp as two-edged stilettos. S This singular individual wore a man's old beav- er hat on her head, which was forcibly retained on that palsy-shaking member by a scarlet bandanna handkerchief passed over the crown, and tied under the chin.  .    /   Altogether, the little, stooping, unearthly-look- ing crone was one of the most singular sights that mortal eyes ever beheld. So completely amazed were the whole assem- bly, that for some five minutes they stood staring in silent wonder at this unexpected and most startling apparition. The little old woman steadying herself with some difficulty on her cane, shaded her eyes with one hand, and peered at them with her sharp eyes. "Don't be afeard, pretty ]adlies and gentle- men," said the little old lady, in a shrill, sharp falsetto. "I wont hurt none 'o you, ef you be- have yourselves. I guess I may come in?" And suiting the action to the word, the libtle owner of the extraordinary head-dress hobbled in, and'composedly dumped herself down into the rocking-chair Mr. Toosypegs had lately va- cated. "Now, what in the name of Hecate and all the witches, does this mean?" exclaimed Pet, first recovering her presence of mind. "It means that 1'll take some breakfas', if you'1 bring it down, miss," said the little old woman, laying her formidable-looking stick across her lap; and favoring the company, one and all, with a prolonged stare from her keen, bright eyes. "Well, now, that's what I call cool," said Pet, completely taken aback by the old wo- man's sang froid. "Perhaps your ladyship will be condescending enough to sit over here and help yourself?" "No, thankee," squeaked her ladyship. "I'd rather have it here, if it's all the same to you. I ain't as smart as I used to was ; and don't like to be getting up much.   Perhaps, t other young gal wouldn't mind bringing it here," she added, looking at the astounded Erminie. Roused out of her trance of astonishment, not unmingled with terror, by claims of hospitality, Erminie hastened to comply; and placing a cup of fragrant coffee and some buttered waf- fles on a light waiter, placed it on a chair within I the old woman's reach.           1 That small individual immediately fell to,  with an alacrity quite astonishing, considering l her size and age; and coffee and waffles in a remarkably short space of time were " among e the things that were, but are no longer." a Tanllee, young 'oman, that was very nice," said the old woman, drawing out a flaming yel- e low cotton pocket-lhandkerchief, and wiping her I mouth, as a sign she had finished; "my appe- n tite aint so good^ it used to be; I reckon that'll do for the present. What's your dinner  hour, young gals?"    I "  Little after midnight," said Pet.  "Humph! I reckon you're trying to poke fi fun at me, Miss Pet Lawless; but no good ever s comes of telling lies. Have- ye ever heard tell a on Annanias and Sapphira?" asked the old wom- an, turning sharply on Pet.        1   l-   "Whew! ghosts, and goblins, and warlocks! ts She knows my name!" whistled Pet, in un- bounded astonishment. a- "Yes; I know more about you than I want d to know," said the little old woman, with a d scowl. a,  "Well, you ain't the only one in that plight, ;r if that's any -consolation, said Pet, carelessly d  "Do you kiiow who I am, too," said Ray. "es, I've heen tell on you," said the old - woman, shortly. p  "And no good either, I'll be bound!" said - Pet. "Well, no; sence you say it, I never did ehear any good of 'him," said the old woman, d taking out a huge snuff-box, and composedly helping herself to a pinch. "What did you hear about me, mother?" said Ray, laughing, as he shook his curly black I locks. ", Well, I heard you was a noisy, disagree- able, fightin' charac-ter;.allus a kickin' up a f row with somebody, and forever a tormentin' of that nice young gentleman, Master Ranty Lawless, who is a brother of that little yeller gal over there, and worth a dozen like her!" said the little old woman, with asperity. "Well, upon my word, if that ami t polite, not to say complimentary," said Pet, drawing a long breath. ' 'Little yeller gall' Good gracious!" "Well, you ain't white, you know," said the old woman--who, whatever her other infirmities might be, was certainly not deaf. "You're ra! tler of the tawniest, as everybody what's got eyes can see for themselves. It's a pity you ain't good-looking, like your brother Ranty; I don't think I ever saw a prettier young man nor lie is, in my life." "Why, you hateful old thing!" burst out Pet, indignantly; losing all her customary re- spect for old age in these unflattering remarks. aI an't tawny; and I am pretty-I just am! and I'm not going to believe anybody that says anything else.' If you and everybody else thinks I'm ugly, it's all your bad taste I Ranty prettier than me! Likely story 1" said Pet, be- tween contempt and indignation.  "Well, look what a nice white skin he has!" said the old woman, with whom Master Ranty appeared to be an immense favorite. "White skin!" bleached saffron, more like!" exclaimed Pet; "  if our Ranty's good-looking, I guess he keeps his beauty in his pocket; for nobody but you ever discovered itJ Ilumph! "ittleyeller gal ' I vow, it's enough to pro- voke a saint!" exclaimed Pet, in a higher key, at the remembrance of this insult. "May we ask the name of the lady who has' favored us with her company this morning?" said Ray, at this point, bowing to the old wom- an with most ceremonious politeness. "Yes, you may, young man," said the old lady, with a sharp asperity, that seemed rather     uncalled-for; 'it's a name I ain't never ashamed of, and that's more'n some folks can say. I'm Goody Two-Shoes; -and if you don't like it, you may lump it." And the shrill falsetto rose an octave higher, as she gave the snuff-box a furi- ous tap on the lid. "A mighty pretty name," remarked Pet. "And we lile it, exceedingly," said Ray; "though, if we didn't, what 'awful meaning lies hidden under the mysterious phrase of 'lumping it'? I confess, it passes my compre- hension. Perhaps, my dear madam, you would be good enough to translate it from the original Greek, to which language I should judge it belongs, and let us know its import in the vulgar tongue, commonly called plain English." "Young man!" exclaimed the beldame, fac- ing sharply round; "I dare say you think it mighty amusing to keep poking fun at me- which shows all the broughten up ever you had, to go showing no respect to people what's in their old ages of life. But if you think sich on- christian conduct"- here the sharp voice rose to the shrillest possible treble-" will go onpun- ished on this airth, or, in the airth to come, you're very much deceived, young man: let me tell you that! I have power, though you may'nt think so, and could turn you int6 a cracked jug, or a mustard-pot, just as easy as not." "I wish to mercy you would, then, old Goody Two-Shoesl  Lor I what a showy appearance you'd make, Ray, as a mustard-pot!" said Pet, bursting, into a fit of laughter. "Why, my dear madam, I hadn't the slight- est idea of 'poking fun' at you, as you elegant- ly expressed it," said Ray, looking deeply per- secuted and patient; ' and as to being turned into a cracked jug, or a mustard-pot, I think I would rather retain my present shape, if it's all the same to you." "Take care, then, how you rouse my wrath," said the old woman, with a scowl, which was unfortunately lost in a succession of short, sharp sneezes, as her pinch of snuff went the wrong way. "I'm a patient woman; but I can't stand everything. I'm used to be treated with re- spect. Where I came from, no such conduct was ever heerd tell on." "It's a warm climate there-ain't it?" insin- -uated Pet, meekly. "Humph I there's some inference in that, if a body only could make it out," grunted the old woman; "anyways, I was always treated with respect, there, young ooman; which I'd advise you to remember, for you need it." "Now, who would think the little demons would treat the old one with respect?" said Pet, musingly, but in an exceedingly audible tone. "I never knew they were so polite down there, before." "Young woman," began Goody, with kindling eyes, when Petinterrupted her impatiently with:   "Look here, now, old Goody Two-Shoes, I ain't a young woman, and I never intend to be; and I'd thank you not to keep calling me out of my. name. I'm Miss Petronilla Lawless, and if it's not too much trouble, I'd feel grateful to you if you'd call me so. There!" "Good gracious! Miss Pet, take care!" whis- pered Mr. Toosypegs, who, gray with terror, had been all this time crouching out of sight, in a corner; "it's real dangerous to rouse her; she might bring the roof down about our heads, and kill us all, if you angered her." "Who is that young man?" said the old wom- an, in- an appalling voice, as she slowly raised her finger, and pointed it, like a pistol, at the trembling head, of Mr. O. C. Toosypegs. "H-I'm Orlando C. Toosypegs, H-I'm very much obliged to you," stammered Mr. Toosypegs, dodging behind Pet, in evident alarm. "Young man, come over herd," solemnly said the beldame, keeping her long finger pointed, as if about to take aim, and never removing her chain-lightning eyes from the pallid physiogno. my of the unhappy Mr. Toosypegs. "Go, Horlander," said'Pet, giving him an en- couraging push. "Bear it like a man; which means, hold up your head, and take your finger out of your mouth, like a good boy. I'll stick to you to the last." With chattering teeth, trembling limbs, brist- ling hair, and terror-stricken face, Mr. Toosy- pegs found himself standing before the ancient sybil, by dint of a series of pushes from the en- couraging hand of Pet. "Young man, wouldst thou know the fiu- ture?" began the old woman, in a deep, stern, impressive voice. ' H-I--I'm very much obliged to you, Mrs. Two-Shoes," replied poor Mr. Toosypegs. "It's real kind of you, I'm sure; and-" "Vain mortal, spare tly superfluous thanks," interrupted the mysterious one, with a wave of her hand. "Dark and terrific is the doom Fate has in store for thee-a doom so dreadful that dogs will cease to bark, the stars in the firma- ment hold their breath, and even the poultry in the barn-yard turn pale to hear it. Woe to thee, unhappy man! Better for thee somebody else had a mill-stone tied round his neck, and were plunged into the middle of frog-pond, than that thou shouldst live to see that day." "Good gracious!" ejaculated the horror. stricken Mr. Toosypegs, wipng the cold drops of perspiration off his fagas the sybil flour- ished her snuff-box in teii air, as if invoking kindred spirits to come to ler aid. "Sublime peroration!" exclaimed Ray, laugh- ing inwardly. "Live to see what day'?" inquired Pet, whose curiosity was aroused. "The day he gets mar- ried, maybe." "Awful will be the results that will follow   that day," went on the seeress, scowling dark- ly at the irreverent Pet. "Tremendous clouds will flash vividly through the sky, the blinding thunder will show itself in all the colors of a dying dolphin, and a severe rain-storm will prob- ably be the result. On thyself, O unhappiest of mortals, terrific will be the effeets it will pro- duce! These beautiful snuff-colored freckles will shake to their very centre; these magnificent whiskers, which, I perceive, inrtwo or three places show symptoms of sprouting, will wither away in dread, like the grass which perisheth. This courageous form, brave as a lion, which has never yet quailed before man or ghost, will, be rent in twain like a mountain in a gale of wind; and an attackh of influenza in your great toe will mercifully put an end to all your earthly agonies and troubles at once! Unhappy mor- tal, go! Thou hast heard thy doom." A more wretched and wobegone face than Mr. Toosypegs displayed, as he turned round, no earthly eye ever fell on before. Ray had turned to the window in convulsions of laugh- ter. "I ain't well," said Mr. Toosypegs, mourn- fully, as he took up his hat. "I've got a pain somewhere, and I guess I'll go home. Good- morning, Mrs. Two-Shoes.  I'm very much obliged to you, I'm sure." And slowly and dejectedly Mr. Toosypegs crushed his hat over his eyes, and turned his steps in the direction of Dismal Hollow. "Poor Horlander!" said Pet; "if he isn't scared out of his wits; if he ever had any. Say, Goody, won't you tell my fortunes too?" "Come hither, scoffer," said the sybil, with solemn sternness. "Apper, and learn the dark doom Destiny has in store for thee. Fate, that rules the fortunes of men as well as little yaller gals, will make you laugh on t'other side of your mouth, one of these days." "' O Hamlet! what a fallin'g off was there!'" quoted Ray, laughing. "What a short jump that was from the sublime! Don't pile on the agony too high, Mother Awful." "Peace, irreverent mortal!" said Goody Two- Shoes, giving her snuff-box a solemn wave; "peace, while I foretell the future fate of this tawny little mortal before me!" "Well, if you ain't the politest old lady!" ejaculated Pet. "But go on; I! don't mind be ing called ugly, now. I'm getting used to it, and rather like it." ratherinever be drowned," began the sybiYl prophetically in Pet's little, dark at's pleasant; any way," said Pet. e you were born to be hanged," went on the old woman, unheeding the interruption. "Whew!" whistled Pet. "Your days are numbered-" "Well, I never sawa number on one of 'em yet," interrupted the incorrigible Petronilla.   "Peace, scoffer!" exclaimed. the beldame, fiercely. "The fates disclose a speedy change in thy destiny." "I expect they do," said Pet; for I'm going to be sent to school soon." ,  "Some dark torture is in store for you, an agony that nothing can alleviate, a nameless se- c ret misery-" "Perhaps it's the colic," suggested Pet. "If it is, I ain't afraid; 'cause gin and water will cure it." "Silence, girl! and mock not Destiny thus. At some future day, you will be a wife." "Well, there ain't anything very wonderful in that, I'm sure; I didn't need to be told that. You didn't expect I'd be an old maid-did you?' said Pet. "I behold here," continued the seeress, peer. ing into the little palm quite heedless of thq interruption, "a miserable little hut, where thirteen red-haired children are playing, and a tawny woman, with a dirty face, in the midst of them, is-" "Spanking them all round!" interrupted Pet, eagerly. "If she isn't, it ain't me." "Will you be silent?" vociferated the ancient prophetess, with increasing sharpness. "Terri. ble is the doom of those who scoff at fortune ai thou dost! Don't withdraw your hand. It is here plainly revealed that if you travel much you'll see a good deal." "Go 'way!" ejaculated Pet, incredulously. "And if you have a great deal of money you'll be rich."         i  "It ain't possible!" once more broke in the unbelieving Miss Lawless. "And if you don't die, you'll live to be pret, ty old." .            ! Now, who'd a thought it?" said Pel. "Leave me, wretched unbeliever!" isaid the old woman, flinging away Pet's hand, with angry disdain. "Leave me; out bewarei! I am not to be mocked with impunity."  I "Neither am I," said Pet; "so Im not going to believe a word about them thirteen red-head- ed children. A baker's dozen, too ;I as if twelve wasn't enough! Poh! I ain't such a goose, Goody Two-Soyes." "Well, wait, you misdirected, sunburned, un- fortunate, t-ined-up-nosed misbeliever!" ex- claimed the old virago, shaking her fist at Pet, in a rage. "Wait! And when my words come true, remember they were foretold by Goody Two-Shoes." "Well, I declare!" said Pet. "If I wasn't the patientest, best-tempered little girl in Mary- land, I wouldn't put up with all this abuse. Not even my nose is allowed to escape ; and it never injured you or anybody else in its life." And Pet, with a deeply-wounded look, ran her finger along the insulted proboscis, as if to soothe its injured feelings.  "Will you tell my fortune, Mother' Two     Shoes?" said Ray, turning round. "I am par- ticularly anxious to know the future." "Well, you needn't be, then," said Goody, snappishly; " for-it has nothing good in store for a miserable scapegoat like you. I won't tell it; but I will tell that little gal's," pointing to Erminie, who all. the time had been quietly looking on, not knowing whether to laugh or be afraid, and wholly puzzled by it all. "She gave me some breakfast; and 'one good turn deserves another," as the Bible says. Give me your hand." Afraid of offending the old lady, Erminie held it out. "You'll be rather a nice-looking young wom- an, if you don't grow up ugly," began the seer- ess, looking intently at the little white palm that lay in hers like a lily-leaf; "and will have some sense, if not more, unless you get beside yourself, as most young gals now-a-days mostly do. It's likely you'll be married to somebody, some time,; very likely the first letter of his. name will be Ranty Lawless, who, by that time, will be one of the nicest young men you or anybody else will ever see. If he makes, you his wife-which is a blessing you ought to pray for every day-don't forget to learn to make slap-jacks and Johnny-cake, two things that good youth is very fond of, as I am given to understand. As he will probably be away up there among the big-wigs in Congress every day, don't forget to give him your blessing and a paper of sandwiches every mooning before he Starts; and meet him at night, when he returns, with a smile on your lip and a cup of tea in your hand. Byfollowing these directions, an unclouded -future will be yours, and you will probably be translated, at last, in a cloud of fire and brimstone, and your virtues inscribed on a pewter-plate, as an example for all future gen- erations." "What an enviable fate, Erminie!" exclaim- ed Ray. "' Seems to me,- old lady, our Ranty's a great bother to you," said Pet, suspiciously, as she fixed her. bright, searching 'eyes keenly on her. face.     .   *  "I always take an interest in nice youths," said the old woman, rising and grasping her stick, preparatory to starting. "I guess I  won't mind staying for dinner. I'll call some other day, thankee."           . "Not 8so fast, Goody .Two-Shoes," exclaimed li Ray, coolly catohing the old woman by the col-' i lar . "I've. discovered you, at last. Off, ye i lendings.'  And to the horror of Erminie, he, grasped the cloak and tore it off, in spite of the vig- ] orous struggles of the beldame. Then fol ] lowed the hia,.and red handkerchief, aid .the venerable gray locks;, and Erminie stifled a I scream as she faneied head and all as coming. I The bushy gray eyebrows caine off, too, and,   - the bright, handsome, mischievous face of Mas- ter Ranty Lawless stood revealed! e -      CHAPTER XVIL OUR ERMNIE. "A lovely being, scarcely formed or molded- A rose with' all its sweetest leaves yet folded." -BYaon. Well, I never!" exclaimed Pet. "Why, it's Ranty!" said the surprised Er- minie. "Yes," said Ranty, giving his hat so well- I aimed a kick that it struck the cat, and hurled that unfortunate quadruped over on her back, "and this is a nice way to treat a 'lone wom- an,' as Miss Priscilla says-ain't it? Going and tearing -the clothes off her back, without any re- gard for decency, or the slightest veneration for gray hairs. By-the-way, I must take care of that wig. It belongs to Uncle Harry, and I stole it last night when he was in bed: What do you think of my ' get-up,' Ray? I laid on the brown and black unsparingly." 6 Well, your complexion would be improved by having your face washed," replied Ray, "However, it's very creditable, and shows how usefully you can employ your time when you like.' Where, in the name of all the witches that ever were ducked, did you get all this trumpery?" "Trumpery! Just listen to that, now," said Ranty, appealing to society ih general. "( Call- ing this hat, and- cloak, and the rest of my dra- pery, trumpery. Well, most irreverent vouth, 1 got it up in the-garret amonr a lot of lumber and stuff, and I coaxed one ,of the housemaids to dress me. I flatter myself. I made a showy appearance when I entered-eh? Poor Orlan- do Toosypegs! Unhook this confounded frock, Pet."          .    "Well, now, to think I never knew you," said Pet, as she obeyed. '"I: thouglht it might be a trick, but I never suspected such a stupid thing as you could have done it." "That's the way I Merit never is appreciat- ed in this world," said Ranty, as he stepped out of his. rather dilapidated garment. "I expect nobody will find out what a genius I am, until it's too late. Darn the thing! I can't get it off at all."  -  "Patience, Ranty! patience, and smoke your pipe," said Ray, as be assisted him off with his ress, and Ranty stepped out in his proper cos- tfiume, and stood there, tall, human, ne and as different from the old-witl ments before as it was possible to '"O Ranty! what a, trick!" se, laughing, "It was a shame to frig   oor Mr. Toosypegs, though."' "H   won't get much sympathy from Miss Priscilla, I guess," said Ranty. ( I do think he believed every .word of it.". "To be sure he did," said Ray; "and such    .r     an expression of utter wretchedness as his face wore when he went out, I never want to see again. It will be as good as a play to see him when he goes home and tells Miss Priscilla." "Im going there to spend the day," said Pet. "Miss Priscilla can't bear me, so 1 go there as often as I can. I'll be able to tell you all about it when I come back." "You had better not," said Ray. "There are two or three runaway niggers in the woods, and it's dangerous for you to go alone." 'Now, you might have known that would just make that intensely-disagreeable girl go, said Ranty, rocking himself backward and for- ward in Ermninie's chair. "Tell her there's danger anywhere, and there she'll be sure to fly. The other day, some one told her the typhus fever was down at the quarters, and nothing would serve her but she must instantly make her appearance there, to see what it was like. Luckily, it turned out to be something else; but if it had been the fever, Nilla would have been a case by this time-and serve her right, too. It's very distressing to a quiet, peaceable individual like myself," said Master Ranty, pensively, leaning his head on his hand with a deep sigh. "But there's no use in me exhorting her; she don't mind in the least. I've talked to her like" a father; I've preached t6 her on the evil of her ways till all was blue; I've lectured her time and again, like a pocket- edition of Chrysostom, and look at the result! I don't expect to live out half my days long of that 'ere little limb, as our Dell says." And Master Ranty sighed deeply over the de- generacy of the human race in general, and Nilla in particular. "Spoken like an oracle," cried Ray; "but though Nilla won't take v-our advice, as a gen- eral thing, I hope she'll take mine." "No, I won't!"-was Miss Petroniila's short, sharp, and decisive reply. "I won't take you nor your advice, neither! I'm just going to  Dismnal Hollow, and I'd like to see who'll stop 4 me!"  "Wlhy, the half-starved niggers will," said Ranty; " and what's more, they'll swallow you,  body and bones, and without salt,too, which e will be adding insult to injury. They'll find i you sharp and arid enough, though, if that's any consolation."  "Indeed, Pet, I wouldn't go if I were you," f 6aid-Erminie, anxiotslv.          8 ; "  Well, you ain't me; so you needn't," said a Pet. "But I'm going; and you may all talk  till you are black in the face, and then I won't o stop."'*  And the willful elf put on her hat, and took l her whip and gloves, and looked defiantly at a the assembled trio.  "Very well; when you've departed this life and gone to the place all disagreeable little girls g go to, don't say I didn't warn you of your danb   ,e ger," said Ranty. , We'll put up a monument ,e to your memory, with the inscription: - Sacred to the Memory Of that sunburned, self-willed female Nimrod, d        P^TRONILLA LAWLESS, O    ,Who ought to lie here, but she doesn't. For, having lied all the time she afflicted this earth Now that she has departed to a worser land, She lies in the stomach of a great big nigger, e   Who swallowed her at a mouthful one night. Of such is the Kingdom of Maryland." "You had better let me go with you," said d Ray.    "No; you sha'n't," said Pet, whose willful na- - ture was now thoroughly aroused by opposition, s and who fancied, if she accepted this offer, they o might think it was cowardice; "I'll go myself e You ride with me, indeed! Why, I'd leave you i out of sight in ten minutes." Ray's dark cheek flushed, and he turned an- s grily away. "Well, be sure to come home before dark- I won't you, Pet?" said Erminie, following the rcapricious fairy to the door. "No, I sha'n't leave Dismal Ilollow till nine o'clock," said Pet, looking back defiantly at the boys. "'m just going to show them that if two great boys, like they are, are afraid, little Pet Lawless ain't. I'll ride through the woods after dark, in spite of all the runaway niggers this side of Baltimore." "All right," said Ranty. "I'd rather they'd eat you, though, than me; for you're like the Starved Apothecary--all skin and   bones. They'll have hard crunching of it, I'll be bound I Luckily, though, darkeys have good teeth." "O Pet! what will you do, if the niggers shIuld see you?" said Erminie, clasping her hands. Pet touched her pistols significantly. "Two yenrs ago, Rnnty taught me to shoot, you little I inch of cotton-wool and I haven't fbrgotten the way for want of practice since, I can tell you. 1 can see by the light of a nigger's eye, in the dark, how to take aim as well as any one."  "You shoot!" said Rnnty, contemptuously; "you're nothing but a little boaster and-a cow ard, at that: all boasters are. You'd fall into fits at the first glimpse of a woolly head." "I wouldn't! and I ain't a coward " cried Pet, stamping her foot passionately, while her fierce black eyes seemed f;irly to scintillate sparks of fire. "I hate you, Ranty Lawless, and I'll just do as I like, in spite of you all!" And flushed with passion, Pet fled out, sprang on her fleet Arabian, as wild and fiery as her- self, and striking him fiercely with her whip, he bounded away as if mad. Two minutes after and the black fiery horse, and little, dark fiery rider were both out of sight. And, looking deeply troubled and anxious, gentle little Erminie returned to the house. "Whew! what a little tempest! what a tor-     nado! what a bomb-shell she is! Now, who in the world but her would fire up in that way for a trifle? This getting up steam for nothing is all a humbug! iGirls always are a humbug, though, anyway," said the polite and gallant Mr. Lawless. "Luckily there's one sensible in- dividual in the family." "Yourself, I suppose," said Erminie, as she proceeded to set the room to rights, like the neat little housewife that she was. ",Yes," said Ranty; " all the good sense and good looks, too, of the family have fallen to my share, except what uncle Harry Havenful has got." "You seem to have a great idea of your own beauty," said Ray, turning from the window, where he had stood to hide his mortification, ever since his rebuff from Pet. "To be sure I have," said Master Ranty, stretching out his legs, and glancing compla- cently in the mirror. "Nobody can see my perfections but myself; so I lose no chance of impressing them on the minds of the com- munity in general. But I say, Ray, come out, down to the trout-streams. I've got a plan in my head that promises good fun, which I'll tell you while we're catching something for Min- nie's dinner-table." "All right," said Ray, as he turned and went out with him, little dreaming how dearly he was destined to pay for Ranty's " fun..' "Now, I know they're going to torment some body, and it's such a shame," said Erminie to herself, as she took the pocket-handkerchief she --as hemming, and sat down by the window. "I guess it's the admiral; Ranty's always plague- ing him when he's at home, and it's too bad; 'cause the Admiral's the nicest old man ever was. My I hope the niggers won't catch Pet," she added, half aloud, as her thoughts strayed to that self-willeA young lady. A shadow fell suddenly across the sunshine streaming through the open door; and looking up, Erminie saw, to her great-surprise, the tall, lank figure, and pallid freckles of Mr. O. C. Toosypegs.            I "Why, Mr. Toosypegs, I thought you had gone," she said, in wonder. "No, Miss Minnie, I ain't gone, I'm very much obliged to you," said Mr. Toosypegs mournfully, seating himself. "I didn't like to go home; for when Miss Prisciller ain't well, she ain't always as pleasant as she might be, you know. She means real well, I'm sure; but then its distress- ing sometimes to be always scolded. I ain't got long to live either, you know," said Mr. Toosy- pegs, with increasing mournfulness ; " and there is no use in me'suffering more than is necessary- is there, Miss Minnie? I always thought- I was to have troubles; but I never knew before, they were to be so dreadful. I intend going tojudas- town right after dinner, and having my will made out, in case anything might-well, might   happen, you know. I'm going to leave half to Aunt Pristiller, and t'other half to your grand- mother. She's been real good to me, and I'm very much obliged to her, I'm sure," said Mr. Toosypegs, with emotion. "'Why, Mr. Toosypegs, you ain't weeping about what that old woman told you-are you?" said Minnie, looking up with her soft, tender, pitying eyes, as Mr. Toosypegs wiped his eyes and blewhis nose, with a look of deepestafflic- tion; "Why, it was only Ranty dressed up." "Ranty!" said Mr. Toosypegs, springing to his feet. "Yes; Ranty Lawless, you know, dressed up in old clothes. He is always doing things like that, to make people laugh. It wasn't any old woman at all-only him." Mr. Toosypegs took off his hat, which, all this time, had been on his head; looking help- lessly into it, and finding no solution of the mystery there, clapped it on again, sat down, and placing both hands on his knees, faced round, and looked Erminie straight in the face. "Miss Minnie, if it isn't too much trouble, would you say that over again?" inquired Mr. Toosypegs, blandly. "Why, it isn't anything to say, Mr. Toosy- pegs, said Minnie, laughing merrily; " only Ranty, you know, wanted to make us thinIk him an old witch, and dressed himself up that way, and made believe to tell your fortune. You needn't be scared about it, at all." "Well, I'm sure!" ejaculated Mr. Toosypegs. "You really can't think what a relief it is to my feelings to hear that. Somehow, my feelings always are relieved -when I'm with you, Miss Minnie. Young Mr. Lawless means real well, P'msure, but then it kind of frightens a fellow a little. I felt, Miss Minnie," said Mr, Toosy- pegs, placing his hand on his left vest-pocket, "a sort of feeling that kept going in and out here, like-like-anything. I felt as if I was headed up in a hogshead, all full of spikes, with the points inward, and then being rolled down hill. You've often felt that way, I dare sayi Miss Minnie?" Minnie, a little alarmed at this terrible de- scription, said she didn't know. "Well, I feel better, now. I'm very much obliged to you," said Mr. Toosypegs, arawing a deep breath of intense relief; " and I guess I won't mind my will this afternoon; though I sha'n't forget MrA. Ketura when I am going, if she should happen to survive me. How does she feel to-day, Miss Minnie? Excuse me for not asking bLefore; but, really, I've been in such a state of mind all the morning, that I actually couldn't tell which end I was standing on, if I may be allowed so strong a figure of speech." "Grandmother's as well as she always is," re- plied Minnie. "She is able, to sit up, but she can't walk, or come down stairs. She won't let   me sit with her either, and always says she wants to be alone." "1 expect her son preys on her mind a good deal," said Mr. Toosypegs, reflectively. "'He was drownedf' said Erminie, in a low tone. "Yes, I know; she was real vexed with Lord De Courcy about it, too. I dare say you have heard her talk of him." "Yes," said Erminie, with a slight shudder  "I have heard her tell Ray, how he must hate him and all his family5 and do them all the harm he could. I don't like to hear such things. They don't seem right. I heard Father Murray saying, last Sunday, in church, we must forgive our enemies, or we won't be forgiven ourselves. I always used to come away, at first, when grand- mother would begin to talk about hating them and being revenged; but her eyes used to blaze up like, ard she would seem so angry about it, that afterward I stand. I don't like to hear it, though, and I always try not to listen, but to think of something else all the time." "I suppose young Germaine don't mind," ob- served Mr. Toosypegs. "No. Ray gets fierce, and looks so dark and dreadful that I feel afraid of Lim then," said Er- minie, sadly. "He always says, wheu he is a man he will go to England and do dreadful things to them all, because they killed his father. Idon't think they killed him; do you, Mr. Toosy- pegs? They couldn't help his being drowned, I think." I "Well, you know, Miss Minnie," said Mr. Toosypegs, with the air of a man entering upon an abstruse subject, " if they hadn't made him go on board that ship, and he hadn't took any- 1 thing else, and died, he would have been living  yet. He didn't care about going, but they in- I sisted, so he went, and the ship struck a-no, it wasn't a mermaid-the ship struck a coral 1 reef-yes, that was it. The ship struck that, c and all hands were lost. Now, where the fault c was, Ican't say, but it was'somewhere, Miss Min- E nie! That's a clear case."         N And Mr. Toosypegs leaned back in his chair, h with the complacent smile of a man who has ii explained the whole matter, to the satisfaction n of the verv dullest intellect. Little Minnie looked puzzled and wistful for E a moment, as if, notwithstanding all he had said, si the affair was not much clearer; but she said nothing.  "You're his daughter-ain't you, Miss Min- m nie?" said Mr. Toosypegs, briskly, after a short tl pause. "Whose, Mr. Toosypegs?" asked Minnie. ce "Why, him, you know; him    that was tl drowned."  "No, I guess not," said Erminie, thought- T Fully; ", Ray called me his little sister, one day, .  Before grandmother, and she told him to hush ;hat I wasn't his sister. I guess I'm I is cousin, wi   e or something; but I don't think I'm his sister." "Your father and mother are dead, I reckon," i said Mr. Toosypegs. "Yes, I suppose so; but I dare say you'll N laugh, Mr. Toosypegs, but it never seems- so I dream sometimes of the strangest things." i And Erminie's soft violet eyes grew misty and dreamy as she spoke, as though gazing on something afar off. '  ;    "Good gracious! what do you dream Miss e Minnie? i'm sure I havc n't te least notion of laughingat all. I feel as serious as anything," said Mr, Toosypegs, in all sincerity. But Erminie, child as she was, shrank from telling any one of the sweet, beautiful face of the lady who came to her so often in her dreams; and so, blushing sightly, she bent over her work in silence. Doesn't young Germaine know who your father and moter were P" asked Mr. Toosy- pegs, after a while, seeipg Erminie was not going to tell him about her dreams. "No, Ray doesn't know either. Grandmother won't tell, but he thinks I'm his cousin ; I guess I am, too," said Erminie, adopting the belief with the careless confidence of childhood. Well, you were born in England, anyway," said Mr. 'oosypegs, '",r you were only a little baby, the size of that, ben you left it," hold- ing his hand anout an inch and a half above the floor. "Most likely you're a gipsy though-she's a gipsy, you know," added Mr. Toosypegs, in a mysterious whisper, pointing to the ceiling. Yes, I know," said Erminie, with an intel- ligent nod ; "I heard her tell Ray so; she used to tell him a good many things, but she never tells me anything. I guess she thinks I don't love her, but I do. Did you ever see that Lord De Conrcy " "No; bit I saw his son, Lord Villiers, and his wife, lady Maude. My gracious!" ex- claimed Mr. Toosypegs, with an unexpected outhurst 'of enthusiasm, "she was the hand- somest woman in the world  I can't begin to tell you how good-looking she wasl If all the handsome women ever you saw were' melted into one, they wouldn't be near so good-looking as Lady Maude!" "How I should like to see her!" said little Erminie, laying down her work with a wistful sigh. "Tell me about her, Mr. Toosypegs." "Well, she had long, black curls, not like Miss Pet's, you know, but long and soft; and the most splendid black eyes-go right straight through a fellow, easy! She was pale and sweet; I always used to think of white cream- candy whenever I saw her, Miss Minnie; and then her smile, it was just like an angel's-not that I ever saw an angel, Miss Minnie," said Mr. Toosypegs, qualifying his admission, reluctantly, "but they must have looked like her." Erminie had listened to this description with clasped hands, flushed cheeks, parted lips,     and dilating eyes. As Mr. Toosypegs paused, she impetuously exclaimed: "O  Mr. Toosypegs, I've seen her!  I've seen her often!" "Good gracious!" said the astonished Mr. Toosypegs, "I can't see where I guess you only think so, Miss Minnie." "Oh no, I don't; indeed I don't; I knowI have seen her. That lovely lady with the beau- tiful smile, and soft black eves. Oh, I know; I've seen her, Mr. Toosypegs." "Land of hope! where, Miss Minnie?" But Minnie had recovered from her sudden joy and surprise at hearing of the resemblance between this beautiful lady and the, lovely vision of her dreams, and pausing now, she blushed, and said: "Please don't ask me, Mr. Toosypegs; you would think me silly, I guess. I must go and help Lucy to get dinner now. You'll stay for dinner-won't you, Mr. Toosypegs?" "Thank you, Miss Minnie," said the gratified Mr. Toosypegs, "I certainly will, with a great deal of pleasure; I'm very much obliged to you."        CHAPTER XVII.  PET'S P5RIL. "Who can express the horror of that night, When darkness lent his robes to monster fear? And heaven's black mantle, banishing tie light, Made everything in ugly form appear."  Miss Petronilla Lawless having, as Ranty would have expressed it, got the steam up to a c high pressure, thundered over the heath, en- s tered the forest road, and looked with eyes g sparkling with defiance at the, dark, gloomy, pine woods on either hand. The bright morn- 1 ing sunshine falling in a radiant shower  through the waving boughs of the pines, gilding  the crimson glow on her thin cheeks and lips, i and brought fiery circlets of flame through all e her short, crisp, jetty girls. Darkly beautiful s looked the little willful elf, as she slackened her s pace through the narrow, sylvan forest-path, as a if to, give any hidden enemy,., if such lurked s there, a full opportunity of making his appear- i ance. None came, however; and twenty min- ( utes brought her in sight of the gloomy gorge a in the cleft mountain, so appropriately named p Dismal Hollow.  Pet slackened the mad pace at which she lid s started still more, and loosening her bridle-reins, r allowed her sure-footed pony, Starlight, to n choose his own way down the narrow, unsafe, g bridle-path. As she approached the house, she ran her h eye, with a critical look, over it, and muttering, o "Miss Priscilla's been making improvements," o prepared to alight.  A great change for the better, too, had taken place in the appearance of Dismal Hollow, since m the advent of Miss Priscilla. The great pools b   3, I of green, slimy water were no longer to be seen before the door; the receptacles for mud re and filth had vanished, as if by magic. A clean, dry platform spread out where these had r. once been; the windows were no longer stuffed u full of rags and old hats, but with glass panes, that fairly glittered with cleanliness; broken I fences were put up, out-houses were repaired, - and the whole house had evidently undergone ; a severe course of regeneration. Inside, the improvements were still more remarkable. Every room had undergone a vigorous course a of scrubbing, washing, papering, and plastering, e and the doors and windows had been closed, ahd i hermetically sealed, and no sacrilegious foot was ever permitted to enter and "muss up," as Miss Priscilla expressed it, those cherished I apartments wherein her soul delighted. The only rooms in the old house which she per- mitted to be profaned by use, were a couple of sleeping-apartments, a little sitting-room, and the kitchen. The servants, for so long a time. accustomed to do as they liked, and lazy about as they pleased, were struck with dismay at Miss Priscilla's appalling vigor and neatness. That worthy lady declared it was not only a shame, but a sin, to be eaten out of house and home by a parcel of " shiftless niggers ;" and one of her very first acts was to hire half of them out to any one who would employ them. The re- mainder were then informed, in very short terms, that if they did not mind their Ps and Qs they'd be " sold to Georgy "-a threat suffi- cient to terrify them into neatness and order sufficient evei to satisfy "Miss 'Silly," as they called her. j On this particular morning, Miss Priscilla sat up in her sitting-room-a little, stiff, square, prim, upright and downright sort of an apart. ment, with no foolery in the shape of little fem- inine nick-nacks or ornaments about it, but everything as distressingly clean as it was pos- sible to be. Miss Priscilla herself, radiant in a scanty, fady, calico gown, reaching to her ankles; a skimpy, black silk apron, and a stiff, solemn, grim-looking, mob-cap, was ensconced in a rocking-chair, that kept up an awful "screechy scrawchy," as she rocked backward and forward, knitting away as if her life de- pended on it. Very hard, and grim, and sour looked Miss Priscilla, as she sat there with her sharp, cankerous lips, so tightly shut that they reminded one of a vice, and her long, bony nose running out everlastingly into the thin re- gions of space. The sharp clatter of horses' hoofs arrested her attention. and she turned and looked sharply out of the window. The sour scowl deepened on her vinegar phiz, as'she perceived Pet in the act of alighting. "That sharp little wiper of a Lawless girl," muttered Miss Priscilla, ( corping here, with a happetite that's hawfull to contemplate, when   she's not wanted; turning heverythirg topsy- turvy, not to speak of that there pgeon-pie what's for dinner being honly henoug for one, Wah! wah!"! And with a look that seemed the very essence of distilled vengeance, and everything else sour, sharp, and cakerous, Miss Priscilla went to the head of the stairs, and called:  "Kupy! Kupy!" (her abbreviation of Cupid) "Go and hopen the door for that Lawless girl, which is come, and bring her pony hinto the barn, and show her hup 'ere ; hand doi't mind a givn' hof her hanv hoats. Be quick there!" As Miss Priscilla, who looked with c ntempt upon bells as a useless superfluity, had a re- markably shrill, ear-splitting voice of her own, the order to be quick seemed quite unecessa- ry; for Cupid, clapping his hand over his bruised and wounded ear-drums, hastened to the door as rapidly as possible, in order to get rid of the noise. Then Miss Priscilla walked back to her chair, and deposited her bony form there- in-determining, with a sort of sour grimness, to make the best of a bad bargain. Not thht Miss Priscilla thought anything of the courtesies of hospitality. -She was above such weakness. But Pet Lawless was the daughter of one of the richest and most influential men in the State- would be agreat heiress and fine lady some day; and Miss Priscilla, being only flesh and blood, like the rest of Us, could not help feeling a deep Veneration for wealth. Personally, she disliked our mad little whirgig more than anybody else she knew. But money, like charity, covereth a multitude of sins; and as Miss Pet would inherit half a million some day, Miss Priscilla Toosy- pegs, looking into the womb of foturity, was disposed to forgive her now the awful crime of "mussing up" her immaculate rooms, in the hope of a .substantial return when then little mad-cap entered upon her fortune. Pet,-having by this time alighted, ran up the steps, and, with the end of her riding-whip, knocked so vociferously that she awoke every slumbering echo in the, quiet old house.  Cupid, half-deafened between the piercing voice of Miss Priscilla within, and the vigorous clamor without, threw open the door; and Pet, with her riding-habit gathered up in one hand,  and flourishing her whip in the other, stood there, bright, and sparkling, and fresh as a i Inountain-daisy before him.        1 "Well, Cupe, how are you these times? Eh? ' Miss Priscilla at home?" "Yes, Miss Pet. Miss Silly tole me to tell I you you was to walk right up," said Cupid. X "Very well.- Take Starlight, and give him a ' good rubbing, and then plenty of oats and water. t He's had a hard gallop of it this morning--poor  fellow!" said Pet, as she npassed Cupid, and ran i up stairs. "Now to face the old dragon!" she a muttered, as, puckering up her rosy mouth in a T fruitless attempt to whistle, she swaggered into u   - the presence of the dread spinster, with her e usual springing, jaunty air. ,  She hates me, and she hates kisses," said Pet, mentaily; so I'll kiss her, if I die in the e attempt!  But, ugh! vengeance! verdigris! , vitriol, and vinegar! I'd as lief swallow a dose of sour-krout, and have done with it. It's going to be awful, I know; but I'll do it!" "Morning, Miss Pet," said Miss Priscilla, , looking grimly up. S    t"O Miss Priscilla, how do you do? O Miss IPriscilla! I'm so glad to see you again!" And before Miss Priscilla dreamed of her dia- bolical intention, the elf had sprung forward, clutched her by the throat, and clung to her like a claw-fish ;-while half a dozen shut, sharp kisses went off like so many pop-guns on the withered cheek of the luckless old maid. With no gentle hand, Miss Priscilla eaught the monkey by the shoulder, and hurled her from her with a violence that sent her spinning like a top across the room. "It's all very well for people to be glad to see people, which is honly 'uman nature," be- gan Miss Priscilla, in a high, shrill, falsetto, while she adjusted her dislocated mob-cap; "but that hain'tno reason why people must 'ave the clothes tore hoff their back by people, just because they are glad to see them-.-which is something 1 never was used to, Miss Pet; and though hit may be the fashion bin this 'ere country, hit's something I don't happrove of hat all, Miss Pet. Now, you'll hexcuse me for saying I would rather you wouldn't do so no more---which is disagreeable to the feelinks, not to speak of mussing up people's caps, as is some bother to hiron; though you mayn't think so, Miss Pet." And having delivered herself of this brilliant and highly-grammatical oration, and thereby re- lieved her mind, Miss Priscilla picked up a stitch in her knitting, which, in the excitement of the moment, she had dropped. "Why, Miss Priscilla, I'm sorry; I'm sure I didn't mean to make you mad," said Pet, in a penitent tone. "  But I was so glad to see you, you know I couldn't help it. Where's Orlando?" "Hat them there Barrens, which is the deso- latest place I hever seen," said Miss Priscilla; "hallweeds; and there you'll find him, with noth- ing growing but nasty grass, hall halong hof that there hold gipsy woman and little gal, 'stead hof staying at 'ome, hand tending to his 'fairs, as a respectable member hof s'eievt bought for to do; heaving away his money, with me slavin' hand toilin' from week's bend to week's hend, smoking hof nasty cigars, as spiles the teeth hand hundermines the hintellecks; which was something his blessed father (now a hangel hup there in the grave-yard) never did; and shows 'ow youth is a degeneratin'. Wah I wah!" said MissoPriscilla, concluding with her usual grimace of sour disgus'     "Just so, Miss Priscilla, I've often had to talk to our Ranty aboutLit, too," said Pet, gravely; but these boys ar all a a nasty set, you know, and don't mind us girls at all. I've con'e to stay all day, Miss Priscilla," And Pet took off her hat and gloves as she spoke. "I thought you might be lonesome, and knew you'd be glad to have, me here; and I don't really know of any place I like to be so well as 1 do to be here!" All the time Pet had been uttering this twful fib, she was taking off her things, and pitching theml about in a way that made Miss Priscilla gasp with horiror. Her hat was thrown into one -corner, her gloves into another, her whip into a third, and her pocket-handkerchief, collar, and brooch anywhere they chose to fall. "You needn't go putting yourself out about din- ner, Miss Priscilla," said Pet, who well knew the spinster's parsimoniousness in this respect, and thought she would just give her a hint. "Any- tling will do for me-a broiled chicken, with a mince-pie, and some grapes; or some nice mut- ton chops, fried in butter, with a rice-pudding, or a custard-anything, you know. But don't put yourself out!" "I don't hintend to," said Miss Priscilla, knit- ting away, grimly. "I never do put myself hout for hanybody; wouldn't for the President hof the IIunited States, or the King liof Hing- land-no, not hif he was to come hall the way from Lunnon hon his two blessed bare knees to hask hit hof me ihas a favor. Hand hif you'd pick hup them there clothes.,of your'n, Miss Pet, which his all pitched habout, hand gives the room a huntidy look, and put them hon the ta. ble, hand .all to Ihaunt Bob to carry them hup stairs, I'd feel heasier hin my mind." "Oh, let them lay!" said Pet, indifferently. "They're old things; and I ain't particular about them. I guess the floor won't dirty them much!" "My floor's clean, Miss Pet, I'd have you for to know, hand wouldn't dirty hanybody's things!" answered Miss Priscilla, sharply, and  with flashing eye ; " but them there things hof your'n musses hit hup, which his something I never likes my room to be, being neat myself a slavin', and toilin', and stl riin' to keep things to rights from morning till niglt, with people a pitchin' hoff things round huntil hit looks like a 'og-stye. Wah! wah!" And Miss Priscilla got up and picked up all Pet's garments, and carried them up to her own bedroom, out of the way. And then Pet, with her diabolical spirit of mischief uppermost, went flying through the house, opening, shutting, slamming, and banging the doors, in a way that drove the peace-loving spinster to the verge of madness, and made her sour temper ten degrees sourer, until her very look would have turned treacle to vinegar. In and out, up and down stairs, getting astride of   the bannisters and sliding down, at the immi- nent danger of breaking her neck, ransacking every room, and turning everything topsy-turvy and up-side-down, and "' mussing things" gener- ally, until Miss Priscilla Toosypegs, " vowed a vow" in her secret heart that the next time she saw Miss Petronilla Lawless coming, she would lock every door in the house, and send Cupid out with his " blunderinghuss" to shoot her, rather than ever let her darken her doors again. Dinner at length was announced, and Miss Priscilla began to breathe freely again, in the hope of at least a few moments' respite from her tormentor. As Pet entered the sitting-room-- for Miss Toosypegs dined in her sitting-room- her thin, dark, bright face all aglow with fun and frolic; her black eyes dancing and sparkling with insufferable light; her short, crisp, black curls all tangled and damp over her shoulders and round, polished, saucy, boyish forehead, she looked the very embodiment, the very incarnate spirit of mischief and mirth. She looked like a little grenade, all jets and sparkles-a little barrel of gunpowder, at any moment ready to explode- a wild, untamed little animal, very beautiful, but very dangerous. And there, at the head of the table, the great- est contrast to her dark, bright, fiery little neighbor that could well be found, sat Miss Too- sypegs, as prim, stiff, and upright as if she had swallowed a ramrod - as sour, sharp, and acid as if she had been spoon-fed o) verjuice from' infancy upward. Pet's eyes went dancing over the table to'ex- amine the bill of fare. Now, reader, our Pet was not a gourmand, nor yet an epicure, by any means-what she got to eat was very little trou- ble to her, indeed; but she knew-Miss Priscilla was intensely miserly, and, having plenty, be- grudged every mouthful eaten at her board. Therefore, the wicked little elf determined to give her a slight idea of what she could do-in the eating-line when provoked to it. But, alas! little' was there on that table to provoke the appetite. Two cups of pale, sick- ly-looking tea, a plate with four small, dropsi- cal-looking potatoes, a consumptive red herring, and, by way of dessert, a pigeon-pie. That was all:. Pet's face fell to a formidable length for an instant; the next, a bright idea struck her, and she inwardly exclaimed, as she saw Miss Priscil- la's eyes rest lovingly on the pigeon-pie: "Pet, child, you'll be. starved, you know, if you don't look out, before you get home. It's your duty to show Miss Priscilla what she owes to her guests; so you walk right into that pig- eon-pie, and eat every morsel of it, though you should burst!" "Sit down, Miss Pet," said Miss Priscilla, sol, emnly, pointing to her chair, and holding her knife and fork threateningly over the ghostly-   looking red-herring, " for w at we are about to receive. Which do you li e best, the head or the tail, Miss Pet-take your choice." "Thank you, Miss Priscilla; for I don't care for either-I ain't fond of fish. I guess I'll take this." And Pet coolly leaned ove:, took the pie, and commenced vigorously cutting it up.  "I always make myself at home here, Miss -Priscilla," said Pet, speakirg with her mouth full. "I know you ain't fond of dainties; and nobody has such nice pigeon pies as you have. You made it on purpose fo' me-didn't you 9 I told you not to put yourse f to any trouble on my account; but you would, you know. It's real nice, Miss Priscilla; ad I'd ask you to have some, only I know you dbn't care about it." And all this time Pet had been crunching away, hailf-choking herself in her haste. And Miss Priscilla! What pen shall describe  her feelings when she saw that cherished pigeon- pie-the making of which she had been deliber-  ating about for a week before-that pigeon-pie, which had been uppermost in her mind all ] morning, vanishing before her eyes with such E frightful rapidity. The English language  is E weak, is utterly powerless to describe how she  felt. There she sat, as if turned to stone, her knife and fork still poised over the herring, speechless with horror and amazement, her eyes frozen to the face of Pet, while still her cherish- D ed pigeon-pie kept disappearing like mist be- fore the morning sun.     "Do, take your dinner, Miss Priscilla. Why, you ain't eating anything, 'hardly," said the  wicked little wretch, as her fork went up and  down from her plate to her mouth. with the  nearest approach to perpetual motion the horri- fn fied spinster had ever seen. "Just see how I'm h getting along. This pie is really beautiful, Miss y Priscilla. h! I love pigeon pie; and only I n know you'd rather see the eat it, I'd make you have apiece. There! I've finished t" said Pet, h pushing aside the empty plate, and leaning s ack in her chair in a state almost " too full for be utterance." "Oh that pigeon-pie was-was- ... actually divine! It just was, -Miss Priscilla; an and I'dcome to ee you every day if you'd only d make meZone like that." Without a word, but with a look that might us have turned scarlet any face less hard than that of of the wicked little elf, Miss Priscilla began her on dinner. Nothing daunted, Pet sat and talked w away unceasingly; but never a word came from Pr the penknife-lips of Miss Priscilla Toosypegs. me Then, when the slender repast was over, Aunt Id Bob was called up from the lower regions to clear away the service; and Pet sat in her chair, thi feeling it inconvenient to do anything but talk, net just then; and talk she did, with a right good Pe will, for two mortal hours; and still Miss Pris- sce cilla sat knitting and knitting away, and speak- c ing never a word. tog   to  "The cross, cantankerous, sharp-nosed old or thing!" muttered Pet, at last, getting tired of this unprofitable occupation. "The stingy old Ire miser! to sit there sulking because I ate the on- ke ly thing fit to eat on the table. I declare I ifI haven't a good mind to come every day and do nd the same, just for her ugliness! Oh, yaw-w-w  how sleepy I am  I guess I've done all the iss mischief I can do, just now, so I'll go to sleep. th I'd go home, onl I said I wouldn't go till dark , id and I wont, either! So now, Pet, child, you e. drop into the I arms of Murphy,' as Ranty says, IP as fast as vbu like." 'n  And culling herself up in her chair, with her 's head pillowed on her arm, Pet, in five minutes, ,o was sound asleep. g  From her slumbers she was awoke by a vig- orous shake, given by no gentle hand. Pet e started up, rubbed her eyes, and beheld Miss - Priscilla, by the light of a lamp she carried, r- bending over her. is  I'm a going to bed, Miss Lawless," said Miss 1 Priscilla, grimly; "hand hunless you intends h staying all night-which I shouldn't be hany s surprised at hif you was-hit's time you was a going 'ome." r 1 Why, how late is it?" exclaimed Pet, jump- ing to her feet. "Height o'clock, hand as dark as a, wolf's mouth, hat that." "My stars! And isn't tea ready yet, Miss Priscilla?" "I've 'ad my tea a hour ago," said Miss Pris- cilla, with a grim sort of smile. " You was so sound hasleep I didn't care habout wakening hof you, not to speak hof'aving heat so much for your dinner, I didn't think you'd care for hany tea. 'Ere's your things, Miss Pet, and your 'oss is at the door; but you can stay hall night, hif you like." "I won't stay all night! I'll never come here again-yes I will, too! I'll come every single day-see if I don't!" exclaimed Pet, bouncing across the rooms and giving her hat i slap on her head. "I know you don't want me, andI'll just come  If you was to our house, do you think I'd pack you off without any tea  No, I wouldn't, if I had to boil the tea-leaves we used the last time, for it I It justshows the sort of folks Englishers are, and I wish there wasn't one in the world-I just do; and I don't care who hears me saying it. I'm  a going, Miss Priscilla, and I vow to Sam  I'll be back to- morrow, and the next day, and the next-see if I don't!"  And while scolding furiously, and flinging things about in a manner perfectly awful to so neat a housekeeper as the ancient spinster, Miss Petronilla had managed to dress herself and de- scend the stairs, whifl Miss Priscilla, grim. as a cast-iron statue, stood at the head, holding the light. Pet flounced out of the hall, giving the     'door a terrific bang behind her, and stepped out into the night.. By the light that streamed from the glass top of the door, Pet saw Cupid holding her po- ny. Springing lightly on his back, she gather- ed up the reins, and paused a moment before starting to look around. The night was pitch-dark, still, and sultry Not a breath of air moved, not a leaf rustled; but from the inky pale of deepest gloom over head, short, fitful flashes of lightning at inter- vals blazed. A storm was at hand, and would soon burst. "For de Lor's sake! hurry, Miss Petronilla," said Cupid, in a frightened whisper. "* Dar's de awfulest storm a comin', to-night, you ever seed. Miss Silly oughtn't 'lowed you to go froo de woods, to-night." "Miss Silly, indeed! I guess she hopes I may only get my neck broke before I get home," said Pet, shortly, as she turned her pony's head in the direction of the bridle-path leading through the gorge. The sure-footed steed, left to himself, securely trod the narrow path; and entered, at last, upon the forest-road. Having nothing else to do, Pet began ruminating. "If that ain't what I call mean!" she indig- nantly muttered'; " sending me off like an Arab, without anything to eat. The hateful, stingy old thing I I like that soft, green, good-natur- ed Orlando, but I can't bear her. Sh-h-h! soft- ly, Starlight, my boy I, there's niggers in these woods, you know, who wouldn't mind chawing you and me right up." Even while she spoke, a hand grasped her bridle-rein, and a deep, stern voice cried: "Stop!"  , At the same moment, there came a vivid flash of lightning, and Pet beheld, for a second, the face of a negro black as a demon. The next in- stant, all was deepest darkness again. CHAPTER XIX. V PIAYING WITH EDIED TOOLS. "Thinkest thou there dwells no courage but in breasts That set'their mail against the ringing spears When helmets are struck down? Thou little knowest Of Nature's marvels."-Mas. HEmNS. Miss Petronilla Lawless was an exceedingly precocious, an exceedingly courageous, and an exceedingly self-possessed young lady, as our- readers are aware, yet now her brave heart for one moment seemed to die within her, and a terrified shriek arose and was barely suppress- ed on her lips. The hour, the scene, the dark- ness, the danger, might have made an older and stronger person quail. Alone in the woods, where no scream for help could be heard, with the gloom of Hades all around, save when the blue blaze of the heat-lightning flashed for a moment through the darkness, helpless and   "alone, in the power of a fierce, blood-thirsty \negro. For one instant, a deadly inclination to swoon came over her; but the next, " cow- ard and boaster," as she heard the words from Ranty's lips, came borne to her ear, nerving her heart with new courage and her childish arms with new strength. "Am I a coward and boaster, as he said?" she' mentally exclaimed, while her eye lit fiercely up. "Yes, I am, if I scream and faint; so I won't do either. It wasn't for nothing I learned to shoot and carry pistols about; aned Ranty won't call me a coward again, if I die for it!" All these thoughts had passed through her mind in lalf an instant; and now the dauntless little amazon sat erect on her horse, and one lit- tle brown hand dropped to the pistol she car- ried in her belt. The black, meanwhile, had held her rearing steed firmly by the bridle-rein. "Come, get off with you!" said the negro, gruffly. "I'll look after you for a few days, Miss Pet. Come; I've ght a place all ready for you in here." Now, Pet was too young and guileless to fear any worse fate than robbery, imprisonment, or, perhaps, death; but as the negro attempted to pass one arm around her waist and lift her from her saddle, her face blanched with horror and loathing,- and shrinking back, she shrieked: "Let me go-let me go, I tell you! I'll kill you, if you don't let me go!" "Oh come, now, missy-none o' this. Little kittens spit and snap, but we ain't afraid of 'em. You've got to come; so you may as well come at once." "Lift her off, and carry her 'long. No use a standin' foolin' here!" said another deep, gut. tural voice. "Let me alone! I tell you to let me alone I I'll murder you, if you don't!" screamed Pet, passionately, her finger closing hard on the, trigger. ' Oh, I'm getting tired of this yer!" exclaim- ed the black, as he resigned the horse to his companion. And, going over to Pet, he flung his arm ' around her, and attempted to lift her from her saddle. A flish of lightning, at that instant, revealed the black, shining visage plainly to Pet, as his face was upraised to hers. Herteeth were clenched hard, her pistol was raised, one swift, short prayer for help, and the brave little amazon fired! A loud cry, that arose even above the sharp report, burst from the lips of him who held the horse, as he let go the reins and sprung toward his wounded companion, The frightened Arabian, the moment he felt himself released, bounded madly away; and in five minutes Pet was beyond danger. The cottage on the Barrens was the nearest   habitation; but all was dark there, and the family had evidently retired to rest. While Pet paused to deliberate a moment whether she would T ouoe them up or ride home to Heath Hill, she chanced to turn her eyes in the direction of the White Squall-as the old sailor, Admiral Havenful, had named lis huge white palace of painted wood-and perceiveda long line of red light streaming from one of the windows far over the dry level moor. "Uncle Harry's up yet!" exclaimed Pet. "I'llgo there, and stay all night. Gee up, Star- light! You have carried tme out of danger once to-night; just take me to ' Old Harry's,' as Deb says, and then you may put your head un- der your wing and go to sleep as fast as you like." As if he had understood her, her fleet steed bounded furiously over the heath; and five minutes later, Pet was standing knocking away with the butt-end of her whip on the door, loud enough to waken the dead. This terrific thumping brought three or four servants scampering to the door; and close at their heels, holding a bed-room candle-stick high on her head, came the "grand seigneur" of the household, himself looking slightly be- wildered at this attempt to board him by force "Law! if it ain't Miss Pet!" ejaculated the I man who admitted her. '"Might o' known 'twar , she; nobody else would come thumpin' like dat. Fit to tar de ruff off!"  "Don't be afraid, Uncle Harry; it's only  ne!" said Pet, as she came in, di3persing the  darkeys by a grand flourish oPher whip.  e *"Port your helm " exclaimed ;he admiral still slightly bewildered, as he hleld the candle- s stick aloft and stared at Pet with al his eyes. o Well, how can I port my helm out here, I n want to know?" cried Pet, testily. "Look at i these niggers, gaping as if I had two heads on  me, and you, standing staring at me, with that pa old candlestick over your head, that's got no n. candle in it. 'Here! go along witE you! Be a off with you!" 'i And again Pet flourished, her-whip among bI them, in a way that had the effect of speedily  sending them flying to the kitchen regions,while t she gave her passive uncle a push that sent him ac into the parlor from which he had just emerg to ed.                   he This done, Pet followed him, shu; the door an with a bang,.flung her whip across the room, e and dropped, with a long, deep breath of relief pa and security, into an arm-chair. The admiral sank into another, still holding wal the candlestick in his hand, and never remov- the ing his eyes from her face. Thus they sat, for thi some minutes, she gazing on the floor, hegaz- eve ing in helpless bewilderment on her; and while " they areithus engaged, we will take the liberty of him glancing round the parlor of the White Squall.  Like the sitting-room of Miss PrisLla Toosy- to   the! pegs, there was a " plentiful scarcity" of the ornamental, and, unlike hers, a great preponder. lent ance of the useless. The floor was covered by Mme a thick, dark carpet ;ethe windows were shaded in by blue-paper blinds; the walls were as white old as the largest possible amount of whitewash uge could make them, and adorned by peneil draughts d a of ships, brigs, schooners, corvettes, and every the other kind of vessel that ever delighted the heart of a sailor and puzzled an uninitiated female to 'et. describe. ar-  Over the mantel-piece was a huge paintin of ger a straw-colored and pink man-of-war, on a blue- s green sea, blazing away at a terrified-looking lit- mn- tie cutter, on whose deck could be seen a gea- ou tleman and a. lady, both considerably taller than the' mainmast. This work of art was the pride ,ed and glory of the admiral, and was dielayed to ve every stranger who visited the White Squall as ay something that might make even the great old ud masters look to their laurels. Deer-antlers bristled in various corners, and five or six huge cages, filled with owls, parrots, at hawks, and a dozen other strange birds, hung ,k from the ceiling, while the model of a ship, r" some three feet long, with all her sails set, her e- cargo and crew most probably under the hatches e. -for none were visible on deck-and apparent- ge ly all ready for sea, stood on the mantel-piece tr right under the painting. e  A huge, wide fire-place, in which, despite the warmth of the evening; a bright fire was burn- ing, occupied one corner of the apartment, and' close beside this sat Admiral Iavenful, in his elbow-chair, still staring at his niece. The admiral was a man of fifty or so, short, stout, plethoric, with a rubicund face, a jolly sail- or's swagger, and a eimple, good-natured look, naturally, that made every heart warm toward t him.  eryrich,very generous, and very easily "  taken in," he was the guardian angel of all the poor in the neighborhood. The admiral, had never married, and had only quitted the service a few years before to settle down and end his days in the pride of his heart, his huge, white, eye- blinding ," White Squall." A fondness for whis- ky-punch, children, and nautical phrases, were thke most noticeable traits in te' old man's char- acter. His niece, Pet Lawless, had never ceased to astonish him, from' the first moment he saw her, and now he sat hopelessly gazing at her, and trying to make out what could have brought her there at that hour of the night, looking so pale and excited. Pet, with her dark eyes fixed on the floor, was uneasily wondering whether she had killed the man she had shot at, and. shuddering to think what a dreadful thing it was to shed blood," even in self-defence. *"Oh, I hope-I do Lope I haven't killed him " she exelaimed atlasot, involuntarily, aloud. "Killed who? Firefly '," inquired the- a. tounded admiral.     "Uncle Harry," said Pet, looking abruptly up, "I've gone and killed a mau!" " This startling announcement so completely overwhelmed the worthy admiral, that he could only give vent to his feelings by a stifled "Stand from under!" "Yes, I just have; and I expect they'll hang me for, it now., Ranty said I was to be hung but who would think he could really tell for- tunes Y" "Killed a man I St. Judas Iscariot!" ejacu- lated the dismayed admiral. "When, Flibber- tigibbet?"  "To-night; not fifteen minutes ago. I ex- pect he's as dead as a herring by this time!" said Pet, planting her elbows on her knees, dropping her chin in her hands, and gazing moodily into the fire. Admiral Havenful glanced appealingly at the  candlestick; but as that, offered no clue to the mystery, he took off his hat, scratched his head (or, rather, his wig; for he wore one), and then clapped it on again, and turned briskly to his niece. "Nowlittle hurricane I just shake out anoth- er reef or so-will you? I'm out of my latitude altogether." "Well, I guess you'd have been more out of it, if you had been caught as I was to-night," said Pet, with a sort of gloomy stoicism. "I was coming through the woods, you know, be- tween Dismal Hollow and the Barrens, when, all of a sudden, two great, big, black niggers jumped from behind the trees, and caught hold of my horse." With something like a snort of terror and dis- may, the admiral sprang to his feet, and bran- dished the candlestick fiercely over his head, whilst waiting for what was to come. "Body of Paul Jones 1 And what did you, do, whirligig?" "Why, I told them to let go, and they wouldn't; and then I took a pistol, and shot one of them!" exclaimed Pet, with flashing eves. "Hoorah!" shouted the admiral, waving the candlestick delightedly above his head. "I knew there was some of the Havenfull blood in you! Three cheers for Flibbertigibbet!" "Then my horse started, and ran off, and I came right straight here," concluded Pet, her cheelks and eyes lighting up at} the exciting re- collection..  "Hoorah for little Bombshell!"' roared the  admiral, as he sprang forward, and catching Pet's hand, gave it- a squeeze that nearly crush- ed the little digits. "You ought to have been *boy, Firely I By Saint Christopher Colum- bus! you are a female hero, Pet!" "Well, but it isn't nice to kiil a man, or even a nigger! I hope he ain't dads" said Pet, un- easily. "Never you mind'the monkey! Served iim right if he is! I do hope he's gone to ' Davy's.   Ilocker,' where he'll get a warmer -welcome. 'Why, he would have killed you, Pet!" ' I expect he would; though I don't see where would be the good of killing a little thing like me," said Pet, thoughtfully humane. " say, uncle, I'd like to go and see if he's dead!" "And may I be swung to the yard-arm if I let you go a step I Does the girl want to get killed again?" said the admiral, puffing up and down the room, with his hands stuck mA his pocket, like a stranded porpoise, "No; the girl doesn't want to get killed," said Pet, crossly. "I'm not going to ie killed . so easily, thank you! But it seems to me you ' might mount two'or three of the servants, and let them come with me; and I will call for Ray Ge maine; and we'll all go together to the wo ds, and, maybe, catch those runaway niggers that are frightening the lives out of people. I shot one of 'em, I know; and we can track him by his bleeding. There's a reward, offered, too, for whoever takes them up; and who knows but I may get it?" "Set fire to the reward! That's a good no- tion, though, about going in search of them when they're wounded, Pet. Oh, you're a jew- el, Flibbertigibbet, and no mistake about it! There ought to be a song made about you. I'll go, too; and there's no time to lose. Pipe all hands, Firefly, while I go and look for my boots." "Now, why couldn't he say ' Call the servants, as well as ' Pipe all hands'? which hasn't a sen- sible sound at all," said Pet, as she arose to obey. "Here you! Jake, Tom, Bob!" she add- ed, opening the door, and shouting at the top of her lungs, "'come here as fast as you can. There's murder in the camp!" "Tumble up!" roared the admiral, from with- in. ' Tumble up!" repeated Pet, imitating the old sailor's gruff roar as well as she could. "Uncle says so." Jake, and Tom, and Bob, most probably thinking, from the uproar, the house was on fire, ," tumbled up" accordingly, precipitating them- selves over one another, in their eagerness to be first on the field of battle. "Clear out, and saddle four horses, and arm yourselves with boarding-pikes and cuclasses!" commanded the admiral, fastening a rusty sword to his side, and sticking a couple of pistols in his belt. "And then mount, andride roulid to the front door, and stand by for further orders. Oh, the blamed black villain He deserves to walk the plank, if ever any one did!" All this time, the admiral had been going panting and puffing round, like a whale, arming himself withrevery conceivable weapon he could lay hands on, and vociferating, alternately to himselfvto " heave to!" and " stand from under!" Pet had -ran out, and sprang upon Starlights while the three alarmed servants rode behind her. And, in a few moments, the admiral made   his appearance, and got astride a solemn, mis- anthropic-lookingold roan, with many grimaces and contortions; for the admiral did not believe in riding himself; and would sooner hate faced a tornado, any day, on the broad Atlantic, than ride three yards on horseback. The night was still intensely dark, but per- fectly calm; and by the command of Petro- nilla, the men had provided dark lanterns. All were now ready; but the admiral, like most generals leaking his troops to battle, considered it his duty to make a spsech. Short, concise speeches on the eve of a battle are, I believe, most efficacious; and, acting on his convic- tion, Admiral Havenful's was brief, pithy, and to the point, beginning with an adjuration to his horse: "Sho, Ringhone, she! Steady's the word, and steady it is! You are now going to fight the battles of your country, my boys, under the glorious stars and stripes. We ain't got 'em here, but that's no matter. The enemy's be. fore you; give 'em a raking broadside first, and then board 'er, sword in hand. The eyes of all the world are upon you now-or would be, only they are sleeping about this time! Clap on all sail, and scud before the wind! Hoorah ' Gee up, Ringhone!" The effect of this spirited address could not be seen in, the dark; and resolved, at all haz- ards, to practice what he preached, the admiral gave both heels a simultaneous dig into the ribs of his gloomy-looking steed, which had the i effect of setting that ominously-named animal  off at a shuffling dog-trot-or, rather, something  between a trot and a canter, partaking of the nature of both, but being, in reality, neither. i Up and down our fat admiral was churned, I while groan after groan was jerked from his i jolted bosom by the uneasy motion of his steed. I "She-pitches-like-an-old-hulk-on-a -swell!" came churned, word by word, like I short grunts, from the lips of the admiral.  "Straight-"up--and - down; and-I'll--be- c capsized,-diretly-by-the-confounded-.old a -brute!" "Can't you hurry, uncle?" exclaimed Pet,  impatiently, reining in her fiery horse with diffi- culty, to the dead march of the admiral.-b "Here' we're going along like a funeral or'a li mourning procession, or a pilgrimage, or any. thing else that's 4slow and stupid. Can't you i put some life into that spaviied, knock-kneed, ring-boned, wheezy old nag of yours with your I1 whip and spurs?" "H'nm-jolted"--to-'death-already - Pet. sc Every-timber-- in --this -old- hulk-is-  ' sprung. Couldn't--go-a-- -step-.furtheri- P old-Neptune .- was .- to -- rise-fro---twe. E ocean-.-nnd-ask.-it-..of me;-ass partic lar-..faVo 'l" grunted the jolted admiral. H "Well, then, I can't wait. Starlight won't be ea held in," said Pet. "I'll ride on to old Bar. ai   s- rens Cottage, and wake up Ray. He'll have is time to be up, and dressed, and mounted, before e you reach there, at this solemn shuffle." d  And off went Pet. A very few minutes a brought her to the cottage. Alighting from hei horse, she rapped more decorously than was her' '- wont, fearing to alarm Erminie. - oftly a window was raised above, and a "night-tapped headand a sooty face was popped t out, and a frightened voice demanded: i  "Who's dar?"   "It's me, Lucy---Pet Lawless. Come down , and open the door." "Golly! What on yeth brings dat little deb- i bil here, this onsarcumcised hour ob de night " muttered Lucy, as she popped her black head in again, and shut down the window. , A moment after, and the door was opened by ; Lucy, and Pet admitted. Lucy held a lamp in her hand, which displayed her in her robe de nit, and showing more black ankles than grace. "Now, then Is Ray in bed?" abruptly de- manded Petronilla. But Lucy, who expected this nocturnal visit, Was to announce some one was dead, or dying, on hearing this indecorous question, set down her lamp in silence, and looked scandalized and rndignant. "Well --- don't you hear me? Is Ray in bed?" repented ourimpatient Nimrod, in a high, er key. "Miss Pet Lawsliss," said Lucy, drawing her- self up stiffly, and forgetting that-her costume was more light than dignified, "you may tink dis yer is mighty fine, to come at de dead hours ob de night, to ax if young mars'r in bed, but it's sometin I wouldn't do, ef I is brack, Bres- my soulj I's allers tooken care not to be cotch in sich wices; but young ladies, now-a-days, as have no 'spect for demselves, can't be spected---" "Why, you hateful old thing " . exclaimed Pet, angrily. "I'd like to know what business you have lecturing me? Vices, indeed! I de- clare! I have a good mind to lay my whip over your shoulders I Is Master Ray in bed! Tell me, or I'll-leave you to guess what I'll do to yoU."   '            I The noise of voices in violent altercation now brought Erminie to the scene of action, looking like an angel in her flowing snowy night dress. "  Why, Pet, what is the matter?" she asked, in alarm.  .   . "Nothing, only I want Ray. Is he in bed? If he is, wake him up."  "  He is not home. He and Rahty went away somewhere, after tea, and haven't come back. We thought they had. gone to Heath Hill. 0 Petl has anything happened to them?" said Erminie, clasping her hands.    i "Nqt as I know of. Like s not they're at Heath Hill, .'b-haven't been there, mself since early this moning. Now, doi get frightened and be a goose, Minnie I wanted Ray to help I     me in a splendid piece of-of-mischief; but as he's not in, it's no matter. Good-night, and pleasant dreams. I'm off." And off she was, like a shot, slamming the door behind her, after her usual fashion, and just succeeded in springing into her saddle as the slow calvaeade came tramping up. Slowly as they rode, a short time brought them now to the forest-road. Just as they en- tered it, a figure came rushing out, shouting: 'Help! help! whoever you are, or he'll bleed to death!" "Why, it's Ranty i" exclaimed Pet, in amaze- ment, as she recognized the voice. At the same moment, one of the men, lifting his lantern, let its rays stream upon the new- comer, and all started to behold a black, shin- ing, ebony fade. "It's a nigger!" howled the admiral. "Blow him out of the water, boys!" "It's not a nigger 1" shouted the voice of ,Ranty. "If this soot was off, I'd be as white as you, if not considerably whiter. Come along; he'll die soon, if he a not dead already-poor fel- low 1"'  "Who'll die? Who are you talking about? O Ranty! who is it?" exclaimed Pet, growing faint and sick with sudden apprehension. "Why, Ray Germaine, to be sure! You'll have something to brag of, Pet Lawless, after going and shooting Ray Germaine-won't you, now? I always knew your lugging pistols round, like a female Blackbeard, would come to no good; and now, when you're sentenced to State Prison for life, we'll see how you'll like it. I wish to gracious there wasn't a girl in the world 1" vociferated Ranty, witha subdued howl of mingled grief and indignation. For one dreadful moment, Pet reeled, and nearly fell from her saddle. Then, with a long, wild, passionate cry, she leaped from her horse, ani sped like an arrow from a bow into the woods. , She had not far to go. By one of the fitful flashes of sheet-lightning that at intervals il- lumined the dark, she saw a dark, slender, boy- ish form lying motionless on the dew-drenched grass. The next instant, she was kneeling be- side him, holding his head on her breast, and clasping his cold, stiff form in a wild, passionate embrace, as she cried out: "' O Ray! I never meant it I I never, nver thought it was you O Ray t I shall die if you do!" "Yes,it's all very well to take on, and make a fuss, now," said Ranty, savagely, giving her a pull away; "but if you kneel hugging him there, and keep 'never, nevering' till doom's day, it won't bring him to. Get, out of this; aud if you want to do any good, jump on Star- light, and ride off, as if Satan was after you (as he always is, I do believe), to Judestown, for a surgeon."   "O Ranty I do you think -he will die?" ex- claimed Pet, in a tone of such piercing anguish, that it thrilled through every heart but the an- gry one of Ranty, who considered she deserved to be punished for what she had done. "Of course, he'll die," said Ranty, jerking her away, " if he's not dead already-as I expect he is! Go for the surgeon-will you? They'll want him for the coroner's inquest, which must sit on the body to-morrow morning. And after you've sent the doctor to the cottage, the best thing you can do is to go and give yourself up to the sheriff, and save him the trouble of com- ing to the house after you. Be off, now, and ride fast, if you ever want to atone for the mis- chief you have done. If you break your neck on the way,'it will be the greatest blessing be- stowed on America, since the Declaration of In- dependence was signed. Here, you fellows! off and get some branches, and spread your coats on them, and make a litter to carry poor Ray home. "Go for the doctor, Pet," whispered the admi- ral. "I've got out of my recklonng again, some- how. Don't see where the wind sits, for my part." Without a word, Pet leaped into her saddle and darted off, according to Ranty's directions, as if "Satan was after her." And then, super- intended by Ranty, a rude litter was made, and the cold, rigid form of Ray placed upon it. The negroes carefully raised it on their shoulders, and headed by Ranty and the admiral, the mel- ancholy calvacade set out for the cottage. "How, in the name of Beelzebub, did this all happen?" was the worthy admiral's first question, as he rode along beside his afflicted nephew. "It's my opinion Beelzebub, or some other of them old fellows, has had a hand in it, all through," said Ranty, with another sappressed Lowl of grief. "The way of it, you see, Uncle Harry, was this: Pet would go to Dismal Hol- low this morning, in spite of all we could say or do. We told her there were savage negroes in tie woods, who would send her to kingdom come as fast as they would look at'her; but it was only a heaving away of breath and elo- quence, to talk to her. Go she would, and go s e did. Well, I persuaded Ray to play a prac- tieal joke on her, by blacking our faces and waylaying her on her road home, to see wheth- c r or not she was as courageous as she pretend- d to -be. Rayacosented, and we stopped her ere; and by George I before we knew what we ere about she fired at Ray, and then dashed ff before you could say Jack Robinson.' Ray fell like a stone, and I, with a yell like an Indi- an war-hoop, rushed up to him, and raised him up, and asked him if he was killed. He said, no,' but that he thought he was pretty badly wounded in the shoulder; and I could feel his coat all wet with blood. If I had been a grown-   up man, the way I would have sworn at Pet just then, would have been a cautioo; but as I wasn't, I contented myself with wishing I had a hold of her for about five minutes-that was all! A little later, Ray went and fainted as dead as a mackerel; and there we were, left like the two ' Babes in the Wood;' and I ex- pect, like those unfortunate infants, the robins might have made us a grave, if you hadn't come along in the nick of time to my relief. I didn't like to leave poor Ray wounded, aid helpless, and alone, tlere, and I couldn't carry him home; so I was in just the tallest 'sort of a fix I ever want to be in again. So there's the whole story, preface, marginal notes, dedication, and all." " Keep her round a point or so," said the ad- miral, thoughtfully ; "I see breakers ahead!" ", Where?" asked Ranty, looking involuntari- ly in the direction of the sea. "If old Mother Ketura finds out Firefly has shot her boy, there'll be mutiny among the crew," said the admiral in a mysterious whis- per; ( don't tell her."  What will I say, then?" said Ranty; " sup- pose I tell her he and I were fighting a duel in a peaceable, friendly sort of way, just to keep our hand in, eh?" "No, no, Ranty, boy! Stick to the truth; every lie you tell is recorded in the great log- book up above-" here the Admiral removed his glazed hat reverentially. "Say he was shot 1 accidentally-"         1 "On purpose," interrupted Ranty.  "Or say he was shot by mistake-so he was,  you know." "All right! I'll fix it up ; trust me to get i up a work of fiction founded on fac;, at a mo- I ment's notice Here we are at tLe cottage. Now for it!"   ' Ranty knocked, and again the window up above was raised; and the same sable head, a c second time aroused from its slumbers, was g protruded, and in sharp, irritated tones de- l mand ed:             , " Who's dar now, I'd like ter know?"  , "A mighty polite beginning," mutered Ran- t ty-thct raising his voice-, It's me Lucy-  Rnnty Lawless." "Ughl! might have known it was a Lawless! a] Never seed such a rampageus set-omin and  rusin' people out der beds dis hou-. de night. t Fust de sister, den de brudder; fust e 'un, den i de odder," scolded Lucy, quite unconscious she in was making poetry; " what in de name of Mars- c ter does ycr want?", "  To get in, you sooty goblin!" shouted Mas- P ter Ranty, in a rage. "Come down and open g the door, and let us in; don't stand there ask- ci ing quettions.", "Belay your jawing tackle!" roared the ad- cl miral, in a voice like distant thunder.   1 "Deed, I won't den! Does yer tank I's no   I sort o' 'steem for myself to go lettin' in men dis I hour de night? I hasn't lived forty odd years d to come to dis in my ole ages o' life." And is down the window went with a bang.  %s Before Ranty could burst out with a speech ft more vigorous thn proper, the door was softly :- opened, and Erminie, like a stray seraph in her s white floating dress, stood before them, with a e face pale with undefined apprehension, and ex- t claiming, with clasped hands: ,   ' O Ranty, something has happened! what is it? I could not go asleep after Pet left, and I felt sure something was going to happen. e Where's Ray?" "Hush, Erminie; don't be frightened. Go in and get a light, and don't wake your grand- mother-go."    *  "But tell me first what has happened. I Wont scream. I'll be very good," pleaded Er- minie, her face growing whiter and whiter. "Well, then-Ray's got hurt pretty badly, and Pet's gone for the doctor. Now don't g crying, or making a time, but light a candfe, and kindle a fire, and get some linen bandages and things ; they're always wanted when wounds are dressed. That's a good girl-worth your weight in gold, not to speak of diamonds. Hurry up!" Pale and trembling, but soon wonderfully quiet, Erminie obeyed, but started back with a faint cry of terror, when the light fell of the black faces of the boys. "Hush, Erminie! give me some soap and water till I wash all this black off before the doctor comes," said Ranty. "I dare say, I ain't very pretty to look at just now; but never mind; a good scrubbing will set it all right. And now get some more, and wash the bfack off Ray's face, too; I fancy you'll find him white enough underneath by this time." Still trembling, and with a face perfectly col- orless, Erminie obeyed; and while Ranty was giving his frontispiece a vigorous scrubbilg, Erminie was more gently bathing that of Ray. When the dusky paint was off, the deadly pal- lor of his face seemed in such striking contrast, that she barely repressed' a cry of passionate grief. Cold, and still, and white he lay, like one already dead. Then Ranty, with a face shining from the combined influences of sincere grief, and a severe application of soap and wa- ter, went to the door to see, like Sister Annie in "Bluebeard," if there was "anybody com- ing." Very soon he returned with the wel- come intelligence that he heard the tramp of' approaching horses': and the next moment, Pet burst wildly into the room, followed by a grave, old, bald-headed gentleman-the physi- cian of Judestown.  "O doctor, will he die?" passionately ex- claimed Pet, looking up, with a face as white as white as Raymond's own.  "Hope not; can't tell just yet," said the     doctor, as he proceeded to rip up Ray's coat- sleeve, and remove the saturated coat. The wound was in the shoulder; and the doctor, with very little difficulty, extracted the bullet, dressed the wound, and proceeded to administer restoratives. Then seeing Pet's white, terrified face, and with black eyes look- ing at him so beseechingly, he chucked her good-naturedly under the chin, and said:- "Don't be afraid, little blackbird Master Ray's as good as- half-a-dozen dead people yet. All you have got to do is, to nurse him careful- ly for a couple of .weeks, and you'll see him alive and kicking as briskly as ever by the end of that time." " "Oh, I'm so glad," said Pet, drawing a long, deep breath; and dropping into a chair, she covered her face: with her hands. The doctor now gave a few directions to Er- minie and then took his'leave. The admiral followed him to the door, and whispered: "Doctor, will you just stand off and on around here, till the lad in there gets seaworthy again? I'll stand the damages, and don't you say anything about it."  The doctor nodded, and rode off; and then the admiral, seeing he could he of no use in the cottage, mounted, with many groans and grunts, Ringhone, and wended his way, followed y his three valorous henchman, to the White Squall. "Ranty, go home," said Pet; " we don't want you. You can tell papa, if he asks you, how it all happened, and say I ain't coming home un- til to-morrow. As I've shot Rny, I'm going to stayihere and nurse him; so be offl" CHAPTER   XX. FIREFLY GOES TO SCHOOL. "Puck found it handier to commence With a certain'share of impudence; Which passes one off as learned and clerer, Beyond all other degrees whatever." -SONG OF OLD PUCK. Judge Lawless was in a rage! If you have ever seen an angry lion, an enraged bear, or a young lady when "her mantle pinned awry," you may conceive in some measure the state of mind in which that gentleman trod up and down his library floor, while lie listened to Ranty's account of Pet's exploit of the previous night.   Judge Lawless was a man of forty or so, and had been a widower for five years. His face,  was not particularly prepossessing, though ex- tremely handsome; his haughty, supercilious  expression; his cold, and somewhat sinister eyes, and slightly sensual mouth, were, on the  whole, rather repelling. He prided himself as 1 a general thing, on his gentlemanly urbanity;  but on the present occasion he quite forgot all his customary politeness, and paced up and a down in a towering passion.      His son and heir, Master Ranty, had ensconced himself in a velvet-cushioned easy-chair; and with his feet on a stool, and both hands stuck in his coat-pockets, took things very coolly in- deed. "To think that my daughter should act in such an outrageous mannerl" exclaimed the judge, passionately; " making herself a 'town's talk, with her mad actions. What other young lady in her station of life would associate famil- iarly with those people at Dismal Hollow, who are a low set, as far as I understand; or ride through those infested woods after night. I shall put an immediate stop to it, if I have to lock her up in the attic on bread and water. I have a good mind to keep her on bread and water for a month or so, and see if that'will not cool the fever in her blood I And, you sir," he added, stopping in his excited walk, and turning furiously upon Ranty, " deserve a sound thrashing for playing such a trick upon your sister. It would have served that young puppy Germaine right, if. she had put an end to his worthless life. I never liked that boy, and I command you instantly to cease your intimacy with him. If your uncle chooses to make a fool of himself, adopting every beggar's brat for a protege, that's no reason why I should fol- low his lead. Now, sir, let me hear no more of this. As the son of Judge Lawless, you should look for better companionship than the grand- son of an old gipsy." "I don't know where I'd find one, then," said Ranty, sturdily. "There isn't a boy from Maine to Louisiana a better fellow than Ray Germaine. He can beat me at everything he lays his hands to, from mathematics down to, pulling a stroke-dar; and there wasn't another boy at school he couldn't knock into a cocked 'It.'" And with this spirited declaration, Master 'Ranty thrust his hands deeper into his pockets, and planted his feet more firmly than ever on the stool. "How often must I tell you, sir," vociferated his father, in a voice of thunder ; " to drop this vulgar habit you have got of talking slang. I presume your accomplished friend, Germaine, has taught you that, as well as your manifold  other acquirements," he added, with a sneer. "No, he didn't," said Ranty, stoutly; "and he could knock them into a cocked hat, if not further, too! Ray Germaine's a tip-top fellow and I shouldn't wonder if he'd be a president some day. It will be the country's loss if he ain't-tlhat's all." "Silence, sir!" thundered the judge. "How dare you have the brazen effrontery to speak in this manner to me? You have improved under your sister's tuition rapidly, since you came  home  Go immediately to old Barrens Cottage, and bring Petronilla here. I shall see that she does not go there again in a hurry."   Ranty rose, with anything but a sweet 4xpres- sion, and went out, shaking his fist grimly at the door, I am sorry to say, orce it was safely shut between them. On reaching the cottage, he found Ray flushed and feverish, with Pet and Erminie sitting on either side of him. "Pet, go home; father s:lys so," was his first brusque salute. "I won't, then-not a step '" said the obsti- nate Pet. "He'll be after you with a horsewhip mighty -sudden, if you don't," said Ranty. "I wish you could see how he's been blazing away all the morning. I reckon he's stamping up and down the library yet, nursing Lis wrath to keep it warm till he gets hold of yol." "Well," said the disrespectful vixen, "if he's a mind to get mad for nothing, I can't help it. I sha'n't go." "O Pet! you'd better," said Erminie,anxious- ly. "He'll be so very angry. I can take care of Ray, you know; and your father will scold you dreadfully." "La! I know that! I'm ir fora scolding, any way, so I may as well earn it. Might as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb, you know." "O Pet! don't stand botheril g here all day," broke in Ranty, impatiently. "I've got to bring you home, any way, and I suppose you think a fellow lits nothing to do but stay here and wait till you're ready. Father will half- murder you, if you don't com3 right straight along." "Yes; go Pet-please do," pleaded Erminie. "I had rather you would." ' Oh well, if I'm to be turned out I suppose I must," said Pet, taking her ha;. "I'm ready, Ranty. Good-bye, Minnie, I'll be back after dinner." "I don't know about that," muttered Ranty, springing into the saddle. "People ain't got out of attics so easily as you th'nk." A rapid gallop of half-an-hoLr brought them to Heath Hill, a gently-slopiLg eminence, on  which stood an imposing mansion of gray sand-  stone, the aristocratic home of Judge Lawless, the one great potentate of Judestown and en- I virons. The judge, from the window of the library, saw his son and daughter approach, and flinging  himself into the lounging chair Ranty had va-. cated, he rang the bell and ordered the servant f who answered his summons to send Mis Pet- i ronilla up-stairs directly.        t] Now you'll catch it, Pet," said Ranty, with a malicious chuckle. "Will I? Wait till you see." retorted Pet, S1 as gathering up her riding-hatit in her hand, she prepared to follow the servant up-stairs. s With his face contracted into an awful frown,  destined to strike terror into the fiinty heart of' his self-willed little heiress, the jidge sat, awaits s   ing her coming. In she coaei, her hat cooked jauntily on one side of her Saucy little head; her round, polished boyish orehead laughing out from between clusters of short, crispy, jetty curls; her black eyes all a-'blnae with anticipated defiance,; her rosy mouthlanckered up, ready to vindicate what she considered her legitimate It rights. Not the least daunted was Pet by her father's look, as swinging her riding-whip in one hand, she stood erect and fearless before him. "Well, Miss Petronilla Lawless," began the judge, in a measured sarcastic tone; " no doubt "you are very proud of last night's achievement. You think you have done something excessive- ly clever now-don't you?" "Yes, I do," said Pet-; ", nd so would you and everybody else-if I had only shot a real nigger, instead of Ray Germaie. It wasn't my fault. I'd just as lief shoot one as t'other." "No doubt. The race of toan D'Aro is not quite extinct, I see. How will you like to have your name bandied from lip to lip till it becomes a common by-word in every low tavern and hov- , el in Judestown?" "Well, I shouldn't mind. I like to be talked about; and it isn't the first time I have given them something to talk about, either." "No; butit shall be the last," said the judge, rising sternly. "I command you, now, to go no more to that cottage. If you dare to diso- bey me, it will be at your peril." "Why, where' the harm of going, I want to know?" demanded Pet, indign!antly. "I am not in the habit of giving reasons for my conduct, Miss Lawless," said the judge, se- verely;. ' but in this instance I will say, it is exceedingly unbecoming in a young lady to nurse a youth who is a stranger to her. No other young lady would think for a moment of such a thing." "Well, I ain't a young lady, said Pet, "no more than Ray is a stranger. And if I was a young lady, and went and shot a young man, I ought to help to nurse him well again, I should think." "What you think, Miss Lawless, is of very little consequence, allow me to tell you. Your duty is to do as I say, without presuming to ask questions. I have' hitherto excused your wild, rude conduct, and made every allowance for your want of proper female training; but, real- ly, your conduct is getting so outrageous there is no telling where it will end. My intention is, therefore, to put a stop to it at once." Pet's eyes flashed open defiance, and her face assumed a look of resolute determination; but she prudently said nothing.  "' have resolved, therefore, Mies Lawleses" said the, judge, re-seating bimself, with a look of haughty, inflexibility quite yverpow^ring; "to send you immediately to school, I wrote some time ago to a lady who keepsa private     boarding-school for young girls, and. she has promised to take charge of you at any time. It is an exceedingly strict estabishmnent, and the .severe discipline there maintained will have the good effect, I hope, of -aming down your glaring impirrieties. As I 'feel that keeping you here "any longer is like hold- ing a keg of gunpowder over a blazing furnace, I intend' setting out with you th'i very after- noon. You need dresses and various other things, I know, which I am not altogether qualified to procure;' I will, therefore, leave a sum of mon- ey in the hands of Mrs. Moodie, sufficient to purchase you a complete outfit, and such other things as you may want. It is useless for you to remonstrate, Miss Lawless," said the judge, with a wave of his jeweled hand; " for noth- ing you 'can say will move me from my pur- pose. I anticipated violent opposition on your part, and am quite prepared or it. Go I have said, this afternoon, and go' you shall. - If you attempt to oppose my will, you shall receive the severe punishment you lave alreadymer- ited.-       ,         , The judge stroke his dark, glossy moustache, and -o16ked-thrbatenin gly at Pet; but to his surprise, thai eccentric young lady offeied not the slightest opposition..' When she first heard his intention of, seidingher away to'school, she had'started violently, and her color came and went rapidly; but as he went on, her eyes dropped, and an inexplicable smil' flickered around her' red lips:. Now she staod before him, with demurely east-down eyes-the very impersonification of mneeknes anhd docility; but had be only seen the' insufferable light of mis- chief blazing under their long, drooling, black lashes, resting -on the thin crimson cheeks,  what'a different tale he would have read I "Very well, sir," said Pet, meekly; "I sup- pose I can't help it, and: have got to put up with it. I don'!t know as I should mind going to school, eifier, for a' hange. Mayn't I call and'see'"Ermimi-e before I go, papa P"  "'Hemim-'i. ahI - 'I'll see about it,' said the judge, rather perplexed by this unusual sub-  misiivnaess, and intensely relieved, too, if the  truth minst. be told; for in "his' seciet heart he  dreadeld a ' sdene "with his stormy little daugh-  ter. "You nmay 'all in, 'for a- moment, as we i go past, ind 'say good-bye; but once in school, t you'will form inewacquaintances amongyour own standin'g in society, and drop all the low oonnec- tions; -you haie formed aound .here. The  daughter of' JUdge Lawless," said 'that gentle.  man, drawing hiiself upj" is qualified, by birth  and ;socal-position, ;to take her place among c the higlhest aind most exclusive nin' theiland, and I must forget she eaer associated'with-paupers!' A streak of fieid red flared acros. the' dark o face ofet;' and h't- black' eyes flew up; blazing t indignantly at this:insult to her friends.' But  the next moment' she remembered 'her rle and b I   s down fell the long lashes again; and Pet stood  as meek and demure before him As a kitten on, I the eve of scratching. 1  "This is all, I believe, Miss Lawless," said the judge, resuming his customary, suave blandness, and feeling intensely proud of his own achieve- ment in having awed into submission the hith- erto dauntless Pet; " you may go now, and if you have any trifling preparations to make before 'starting,'you will have sufficient time before dinner to accomplish them. I shall ex- pect, when we reach Mr. Moodie's, you will try to behave yourself like a young lady, as my daugh- ter will'be expected to behave. You must drop your rude, brusque ways, your slang talk, and amazonian bearing, and become quiet, and gentle, and .lady-like, and accomplished. You understand " "Yee, sir," murmured Pet, putting her fore- finger' ih her mouth. "Very well, I hope you do. Go, now." With her long lashes still drooping over her wickedly-scintillating eyes, her finger still stuck in her mouth, Pet meekly walked out of the august " presence," and closed the library-door; but no sopner was she safely outside, than a change most wonderful to behold came over the spirit of her dream. Up flew the long-eye- lashes, revealing the dancing eyes, all ablaze with the anticipation of fun and frolic; erect towered the little form, as she turned; and facing the door, applied her thumb to her nose, flourished her four' fingers in a gesture more expressive than elegant, and exclaimed: "Oh! won't I be good, though! won't I'be lady-like! won't I forget my friends I won't I be so quiet, and gentle, and good, that they'll make a saint' out of me pretty soon! won't I be a pocket-edition of ' St. Rose of Lima!' Maybe I won't; that's all!" Pet was as -busy as a nailer until dinner was an- nounced, packing up such things as she wished to take with her to school.  Great was the amazement of Ranty, when at the dinner-table his father, in pompous tones, announced his immediate departure with Pet. Ranty glanced at her, as she Fat quietly looking in her plate, and being somewhat wider awake in respect to her than his father, inwardly mut- tered:            - '"Pet's up to something, I can tell that whenever 'she looks particularly quiet and saintly, like she 'does now; there's always '.breakers ahead,' as uncle would say. Mrs. Moodie will find her hands full when she gets our Pet. She'll discover she's caught a tartar, I'll be bound!" - Immediately after dinner, black Debby was ordered to dressi Miss Pet for her journey, while the judge went' to his, own apartment to make himself as irresistible as possible. In half an hour both' were ready. Pet was handed into     one carriage by her father, and waved a smiling adieu to Ranty. The judge took his seat beside her, and the two superb carriage-horses, flashing with silver-mounted harness, started off at a rapid pace. As they came within sight of the cottage, Pet, who had been lying back silently among tie cushions, started up, exclaiming: "Stop at the cottage, John; I'm going in there for a moment." The coachman drew up, and Pet sprang oult. "I will give you just five minutes to make your adieux," said the judge, drawing out ais watch, " if you are not back in that time, I shall go after you." Pet's eyes again defiantly flashed, but wihh- out deigning to reply, she ran into the cottage. Erminie met her at the door, and looked her surprise at seeing the stately equipage of Jucge Lawless stop at the cottage, and Miss Lawl ss herself all arrayed for a journey. "How is Ray?" was Pet's first question. "Just as he was this morning. Where are you going Pet?" "He is no worse?" "No. Are you going away?" "Has the doctor been here since?" "Yes, he has just gone. Where are you 7o- ing, Pet?" Oh-to school!" "To school! going away!" echoed Erminie in dismay. "Yes; going to a dismal old boarding-school, where I am to walk, talk, eat, pray, and sneeze by rule. Ain't it nice?" "Oh, Pet, I am so sorry!" "Well, I'm not! I expect to have a real nice time. Everybody mlghn't see the fun of it; but I do! I intend to finish my educat'on, and be back in a week!" "Oh, Pet! I don't know what I shall do w ien you are gone; I will be so lonesome," said Er- minie, her sweet blue eyes filling with tears. "Why, didn't I tell you I'd be back in a week? I will, too. There's an old dragon there, Mrs. Moodie-I've heard of her before-and s ,e's to hammer learning into me. Oh, I'll dose her!" "Won't you write me a letter, Pet?" said Er- minie, who was sobbing, now, and clinging to her friend's neck. "To be sure I will, and I'll bring it myself, to save postage. Don't you be afraid, Minnie. I can take care of Pet Lawless, and won't let her be put down by no one. Good-bye, now; I've only got five minutes, and I guess they're up by this time. Now don't cry and take on, Minnie, you'll see I'll learn so fast that I'll be sent home finished in a week! And with these mysterious words, Pet gave Erminie a parting kiss, and ran from the cottage just as the judge put his head out from the carriage to call her.   The journey now proceeded uninterruptedly. They remained that night at a hotel, and con- tinued their journey next morning. A little after noon, they reached the four-story building where Mrs. Moodie kept her costly and exclusive boarding establishment for the young female  aristocracy of the land, and "trained up " (as her circulars had it) the rising female generation in all the branches of an English, French, musical, and religious educa- tion. Judge Lawless and his daughter were shown into a magnificently-furnished drawing-room, where a "cullud pusson " took the gentleman's card and went off in search of the proprietress (if the word is admissable) of the establishment. Fifteen minutes later, the rustle of silk re- sounded in the hall. Pet drew herself up straight as a ramrod, compressed her lips, cast dowin her eyes, folded her hands, and looked the very picture of a timid, bashful, shy little country- girl. Then the door opened, and magnificent in a four-flounced plaid silk, with a miraculous combination of lace and ribbons floating from her head, a tall, yellow, sharp-looking lady of middle age floated in, and with a profound courtesy to the judge that made her four flounces balloon out around her, after the fashion of children when making " cheeses," dropped into a sofa, half-buried in a maze of floating dra- pery. "This is Miss Lawless, I presume?" said Mrs. Moodie, with a bland smile and a wave of her hand toward Pet. "Yes, madam, this is my daughter; and I consider it my duty to tell you beforehand that I am afraid she will occasion you a great deal of trouble." "Oh! I hope not! You are a good little girl-nre you not, my dear?"--with a sweet smile to Pet. "t i what way, may I ask, my dear sir?" "In many ways, madam. She is, in the first place, unbearably wild, and rude, and self-will- ed, and-I regret to say-disobedient." "Is it possible? I really would never have imagined it!" cried the lady, glancing in sur- prise and incredulitv toward the shy, quiet-look- ing little girl, sitting demurely on er chair, and not venturing to lift her eyes. "I think I have tamed far more desperate characters than tlii ; in fact, I may say I know I have. Oh I will have no trouble with your little girl I Why, she is one of the quietest-looking little creatures I think I ever saw." The judge glanced toward Pet, and was half- inclined to fly into a rage at discovering her so unlike herself, giving the direct lie, as it were, to his assertions. "Come over here, my love," said the lady, holding out her hand with a bland smile to Pet, "I want to see you." Pet, after the manner of littleigirls when they     are frightened or embarrassed, instead of com- plying, rubbed her knuckles into her eyes, and preteided to cry. "Get up, and do as you are told I How dare you act so?" said the judge, forgetting his "company manners" in his rage at what he could easily see was clever acting on Pet's part. "Now, pray, my dear sir, don't frighten the poor little thing," cried the dulcet topes of the lady. "Little girls are always nervous and frightened when first sent to school. Come here, my love don't be afraid of me!" "Go!" thundered the judge, with a brow like a thundercloud. Pet, still sniffling, got up and went over to Mrs. Moodie. "What is your name, my dear?" smiled the lady, taking Pet's little brown hand in her own snowy fingers. "Pet-Pet-ronilla," sobbed the elf. "Now you must. not cry, dear; we will take the best of care of you here. Of course, you will miss your papa for a few days; but after that we will get along very nicely. Were you ever at school before?"  "Ye-es, ma'am." "What did you learn, love?" "I don't know." "Petronilla!" sternly began the judge. "Now, pray, my dear sir," remonstrated the silken tones of the lady, "leave it to me. Just see how you are frightening the poor little thing. You can read, my dear, of course?" "Yes, ma'am." "What books have you read, love? have you read many?" "Yes, ma'am." "What was their names?" "' Jack and the Bean-stalk;' 'The Goose with the Golden Egg;' 'Little Red'-" "Oh! my dear, I dou't mean those! Have you read nothing else?" "No, ma'am; only a spelling-book." "Can you write?" "Yes, ma'an, when somebody holds my hand." "Have you studied grammar and geography? I suppose not, though." "She has, madam ; at least she commenced," 1 said the judge.  "Ah, indeed! What is English Grammar,  love?" "A little book with a gray cover," said Pet.  "No, no! What does English Grammar 1 teach?"  "I don't know-it never teached me anything;  it was Mr. Hammer."  "O dear me I You are rather obtuse, I fear, i Perhaps you know more of geography, though.  Can  ou tell me how the earth is divided?  It ain't divided $" said Pet, stoutly. "It's  all one piece"I " "Ah! I fear your teacher wan none of the   ' best," said the lady, shaking her head. "We i shall have to remedy all these defects in your education, however, as well as we can. I hope to send you a very different little girl home, judge." "I sincerely hope so," said the judge, rising. "Farewell, madam. Good-bye, Petronilla; be a good girl-remember." "Oh I I'll remember!" sd Pet, significant- lly, accepting her father's farewell salute, with a great deal of sangfroid. Mrs. Moodie politely bowed her stately guest out, and then, turning to Petronilla, said: "The young ladies are all in the class-room studying, my dear. Would you prefer going there, or shal I have you shown to your room?" "I'll go where the girls-I mean the young ladies are," said Pet, following the rustling lady up stairs. "Very well, this way, then," said madam, turning into a long hall with large white fold- ing-doors at the end, through which came drows- ily the subdued hum of recitation. '"Well; I think I have done the bashful up beautifully!" mentally exclaimed Petronilla. "I reckon I've amazed papa. Maybe I won't sur- prise them some, if not more, before this night's over. Oh! won't I dose them, though!" And, chuckling inwardly, our wicked elf fol- lowed the stately Mrs. Moodie, who marched on ahead, in blissful ignoranct of the diabolical' plot brewing in Pet'pischief-loving head. CHAPTER XXI. PET BEGINS HER EDUCATION. "A horrid spectre rises to myssight." "I hear a knocking in the south entry. Hark! more knocking'!"-MAOBETH. Throwing open the folding-doors, Mrs. Moodie passed into the school-room, closely followed by Pet. It was a long, high, wide room, with desks running round the walls, and maps, globes, books, and slates scattered profusely around. Before each desk was a chair, and some sixty girls of all sizes and sorts sat now busily con- ning their lessons. Two or three teachers sat in various direc- tions, round the room, before little tables, with their eyes fixed on the students, ready to note down the slightest infringment of the rules. It was seldom the i commander-in-chief of the establishment swept her silken flounces through the hot, dusty classe; and now, according to the long-established rule, teachers and pupils rose simultaneously, and courtesied profoundly to that august lady. Then every eye in sixty- three heads turned and fixed themelves upon the new pupil with that sharp, searching, un- pitying stare that only school-girls understand. Petronilla, however,. was not in the remotest degree troubled with that disagreeable failing, yeclpt bashfulness; and glancing round com-   posedly, she swept the whole room at a glance, and returned every stare with compound inter- est. "Young ladies," said Mrs. Moodie, with a graceful wave of her hand toward Pet, "this young lady is Miss Petronilla Lawless, of Judes- town, and will be your future companion and fellow-pupil. I hope you will be mutually please with each other, and try to make her at home among you as soon as possible. Miss Sharpe, she will enter your division." And, with a stately bow of her be-ribboned head, Mrs. Moodie rustled loudly from the room while teachers and pupils again bowed in deep- est reverence. Pet gave an assenting, nod to Mrs. Moodie's remarks, which had the effect of making two or three of the young ladies indulge in a little giggle behind their handkerchiefs. Then, from a distant corner, came a small, keen, wiry-look- ing human terrier, known by the appropriate cognomen of Miss Sharpe, who immediately laid hands upon Pet, saying : "Miss Lawless, come this way. You are to enter my class." Pet, as good a physiognomist as ever lived, raised her keen eyes to the cantankerous face of the cross-looking old-young lady, and con- ceived, upon the spot, a most intense dislike to her. The other girls, ".s a silent motion from their teachers, had dropped into their seats, and resumed their studies-still, how\ever, cov- ertly watching the new pupil with all a school- girl's curiosity. Pet was led by sharp Miss Sharpe to the re- mote corner from whence she had issued, and where sat some dozen or two "juvenile ladies," all smaller than Pet. Miss Lawless looked at  them a moment in undisguised contempt, and then stopped short, jerked herself free from Miss  Sharpe's grasp, and coming to a sudden stand- i still, decidedly began: "I ain't a going to sit among them there little  things. I want to go over there!"  And she pointed to where a number of young ladies, whose ages might have varied from sev- t enteen to twenty, sat in the "First Division." 1 A very little thing will produce a laugh in a silent school-room, where the pupils are ever t ready to laugh at anything a new scholar does  or says; and the effect of this brief speech was a universal burst of subdued laughter from the a sixty " young ladies" aforesaid.     I "Well, you can't go there!" said Miss Sharpe, p sharply, looking daggers at Pet. "You are to sit in my division-which is the lowest!" c "Yes, I see it is," said Pet; "but you needn't o get so cross about it. I should think, when my e papa pays for me, I could sit wherever I like. I'm sure this hot old room, without even a carpet c on the floor, ain't much of a place to sit in, any- g Another universal laugh, louder than the first, e   a, followed this; and the sixty pairs of eyes flash- - ed with wicked delight-for Misl Sharpe was the detestation of the school.  a  "Silence " called the head ronitor, sternly. s  Miss Sharpe clutched Pet's shoulder with no -gentle hand, and jerked her into a seat with an d angry scowl.  y  "You must keep silence, Miss Lawless," she r began, with asperity. "Young ladies are not s allowed to talk in the class-room. You will have to sit wherever you are placed, and make I no complaints. Such rude behavior is not al- , lowed here. Hold your tongue, now, and read - this., Hereupon she took from her table the "First s Book of Lessons," and put it into Pet's hand, r with another scowl, darker, if possible, than the o first. a  Pet took it, and holding it upside down for' a -while, seemed to be intently studying, thinking a all the while that life in a school-room was not only as pleasant, but considerably pleasanter, thanshe had anticipated. D  But for Pet Lawless to keep silent any length of time was simply a moral impossibility; so, , finding the cross teacher's lynx eyes turned for a moment the other way, she bent over toward her next neighbor, a little red-eyed, red-haired girl, about her own age, and whispered, in strict confidence, pointing to Miss Sharpe: "Ain't she a horrid cross old thing?" But the young lady only glanced askance at the audacious little law-breaker at her side, and edged nervously away from her. Petronilla not being easily affronted or slight- ed, however, came close to little red-lead, and holding her book to her mouth, whispered again: "Does she ever whip you, or anything? She looks cross enough to do it. Ain't it awful com- ing to school P" Seeing there was no escape from her persecu- tor, red-head thrust her knuckles into her eyes and began to cry. "What's the matter now?" said the teacher, turning sharply round, and looking threatening. ly at Pet. "Why, Miss Sharpe, she keeps a talking to me all the tirie, and won't stop," whispered the unhappy owner of the red hair. "What is she saying? ' said Miss Sharpe, in a quick, irritated voice, that strongly reminded Pet of Dismal Hollow and Miss Prisclla Toosy. pegs. "She-she-she says you're a--a horrid cross old thing, please ma'am "Wept the little one, digging her knuckles still further into her eyes. Miss Sharpe's face grew black as a thunder. cloud-owing to her peculiar complexion, she generally blushed black, or deep orange. In all her itiirteen years' teaching, she had nev- er before encountered a pupil who bad dared     to call her a "horrid cross old thing" before. Old Hthat was the worst. To be called so be- fore the whole school, too i Miss Sharpe sat for one awful momint perfectly speechless with rage, and so black in the face that there seemed serious danger of her bursting a blood-vessel on the spot. Once again a loud laugh, that would not be restrained, came from the sixty pretty mouths of the sixty young ladies so often spoken of. Even the teachers, although they sternly called "silence!" were forced to cough violently, to hide the smile that was creeping over their faces at Miss Sharpe's rage. Meantime, our dauntless Pet sat with a sort of head-up-and-heels-down look, that was a sight to see; her arms akimbo, and her bright black eyes blazing with defiance, daringly riveted on the face of tie justly-offended teacher. "Did-did you dare to say that, you-you impudent, impertinent-young saucy-" "Abandoned, outrageous son of a gun!" put in Pet, composedly. "Silence! Did you dare to call me that- that name?" "I didn't call you any name-I said you were a horrid cross old thing; and I'll leave it to everybody here if you ain't! I ain't used to hold my tongue-and I'm not going to do it, either!" said Pet, all ablaze with defiance. Miss Sharpe sat, unable to speak, her rage al- most swamped in her utter amazement. In all her experience she had never come across so desperate and utterly depraved a case as this. Every book was dropped, and every eye fixed on Pet. Even the other teachers, unable long- er to repress their smiles, exchanged glances of surprise, and watched with interest and curiosity, the little original, who sat staring at Miss Sharpe as if for a wager. "H won't endure this! I am not to be in- sulted in this manner!" said Miss Sharpe, ris- ing passionately. "I'll go and report her to Mrs. Moodie; and either she or I must leave this class."  "My dear Miss Sharpe, be calm," said the  head teacher, a pleasant-faced young girl, as  she rose and came over. "There is no use in troubling Mrs. Moodie about the matter. This  little girl, you perceive, has been indulged and i spoiled all her life, and cannot readily submit  to authority now. My dear," she added, turn-  ing to ]et. " you must sit still and not talk. It 1 is agains' the rules; and you perceive you are  giving Miss Sharpe a great deal of trouble." "Well. so is she, just as bad! She's giving J me a great deal of trouble, too! I wan't to go I and sit in your class." "But yoqu an't sit in my class, Miss Lawless. I You must keep the place allotted you. Little i girls should be docile and obedient, you know, ] and do as they are told. you sit still, now, t and be quiet?"  i   "Yes; if she let's me alone!" pointing to Miss Sharpe. You must do as your teachei says, child. Now, do be a good little girl, and don't talk." And the sweet-voiced young lady patted Pet's black curly head kindly, and went back to her aunt. Miss Sharpe, looking as if she would like no pounce upon Pet and pound the life out of her, telapsed scowling into her seat; and Pet, curl- ing her lip contemptuously at the cross teacher, took a lead-pencil out of her pocket, and began amusing herself drawing caricatures of her all over the book she held in her hand. A profound silence again fell on the hot, close classe, and the girls bent over to-morrow's tasks; now ana then, however, smiling slyly at each other, and glancing significantly At the new- coner, whose short nalf hour in school had al- reaav created a sensation quite unparalleled in all the paEt history of the establishment, and which was destined to fill sixty letters home to "papa and namma  next time they wrote. Then. in hal an hour more, a Dell loudly rang, and every girl jumped eagerly up. This was the signal that school for the day was dismissed; and Dooks, and slates, and pencils were hustled hastily out of sight; and two by two the girls marched through the now open folding-doors, beginning with the tallest, through the longhall down the staircase, through another hall out of a side-room, and into an immense nolay-ground, furnished with swings; skipping-ropes hoops and everything else necessary lorrecreation and amusement. But no longer were hoops, ana swings, and skipping-ropes seized with loud shouts as here- tofore; newer and more attractive game was in view now; and every one crowded arornd cur Pet, surveying her with open eyes, as if she were some natural curiosity But Pet had no intention of stanaing there to be looked at and cross-questioned ; and break- ing through the ring with the yell of an Oiibbe- way Indian, she sprang into one of the swings, and invited " some of 'em to come and swing he-"                   Like hops in beer, Pet s presence seemed to throw the whole assembly in a ferment hitherto unknown. The swings flew wildly; the skip- ping-ropes went up and down with lightning- like velocity; the hoops whirled and flew over the ground in a way that must have astonished even themselves, if hoops ever can be astonish- ed. The girls raced, and ran, and skipped, and laughed as they had never done before; and the noise and uproar waxed "fast and furious." And wherever the fun was highest, the laughter loudest, the excitement wildest, there you might find Pet, the centre and origin of it all. Cross Miss Sharpe, who had been sent but to look after them, and see that none of them broke their necks, if possible, wrung her hands in despair   at the awful din, and rushed hither and thither, scolding, shaking, threatening, and vociferating at the top of her lungs; but all in vain. They were every one going crazy-that was evident; and that little minx, wilo had come there that day to throw the whole school in convulsions, was the cause of it all. But even school-girls, with lungs, and throats, and faces very often of brass, must get exhaust- ed at last; and after an hour's steady screaming and yelling, the whole assemblage shrieked, laughed, and shouted themselves into hoarseness and comparative quiet. Pet, somewhat fatigued after her exertions, was seated in the midst of a group of girls tell- ing, in solemn tones, a most awful " raw-head and bloody bones" ghost-story, which she " made up" as she went along, and which was destined to deprive-at least twenty little individuals of a wink of sleep that night. Every one was bending eagerly forward, lis- tening breathlessly to Pet, who had just got "Jack" into the 't haunted castle," and was an- nouncing the coming of a "great big black man, with red-hot coals for eyes, and flames of fire coming out of his mouth;" when a thin, sharp shadow fell over them, and looking up, ivith a terrified start, they beheld Miss Sharpe standing over them. What is she talking about, now?" queried that lady, with no very amiable glances toward Pet. "She's telling a ghost story; that's what she s talking about!" said Pet, instantly begin- ning to be provoking. d"Ghostsl" said Miss Sharpe, turning up her nose, though nature had already saved her the trouble. "Such stuff! You must not terrify the children by telling them such things, little girl." "It's not stufft" said Pet; "it's as true as preaching, I've seen lots of ghosts myself. There, now!" 'Miss Lawless, do, you know where little girls that tell fibs go to " said Miss Sharpe, sternly. "Yes f rne same place you'll go to, I expect," said Pet, pertly; " but I ain't telling fibs - I never do. And I have seen plenty of ghosts, too. There's a whole settlement or them out where we live. I only wish I had brought some of them to school with me, and  you would see. That's all!" "You naughty little girl!" said Miss Sharpe,' angrily "How dare you tell me such a story? You have seen ghosts, indeed! Why, everybody knows there is no such thing." "What do you bet there's not?" said Pet. Miss Lawless, you forget to whom you are speaking!" said Miss Sharpe, with dignity. "No, I dont; I know very well to whom I am speaking," said Pet, imitating her tone; " and I know just as well there are ghosts. They're   great, tall, thin people, in white, witlA hollow eyes, that come at midnight and scare people. I've seen them, and I guess I ought to know." Miss Sharpe, disdaining an altercation with the elf, who was already bristling up in antici- pation of a controversy, tlrned and walked away majestically, or, at least, as majestically as her four feet eight inches would allow. Pet looked after her with a boding eye that told wonderful tales, if she could only have read' it; but she contented herself with mentally Qx-' claiming:  "Oh, I'll dose you! May be you won't see a ghost to-night, old Miss Vinegar." ' There, now, go on with the story," chorused half a dozen voices, when Miss Sharpe was gone. "See here," said Pet, without heeding the request, " vhere does she-Miss Sharpe, I mean -sleep at night?" "With us," said one of the small girls, " in the children's dormitory. The large girls have rooms to themselves, every two of them; but we sleep in a. long room all full of beds, and Miss Sharpe sleeps there, too." "Hum m-m I Do you know where I am to sleep?" "Yes; all Miss Sharpe's Division sleep in the children's dormitory. You'll be there.' "Um-m-n!- I should like to see the place. Would we be let?" "Olives. If you can get one of the girls in the First Division to go with you, she can take you all over the house." Off ran Pet, and without much difculty she persuaded one of the First Division to show her through the house. The first place they visited was the children's dormitory. This was a long room, with rows of white-curtained beds on either side for the children, and one larger than the rest, at the farther end; for Miss Sharpe. Small wash. stands and mnirrors were scattered around, and near each bed was placed a small trunk belong- ing to the children. Pet scanned these arrangements with a thoughtful eye. Then, turning to her cicerone, she said: "In which of these beds am I to sleep " "In this one," said the girl, indicating one at the extreme end of the room, opposite Miss Sharpe's. "The room was full; so they had to put it close to the window, and .you will have a chance to see everybody that passes. Pet went over to examine. Within a few inches of the bed, was a window overlooking the street. It was partly raised now, and Pet thrust her head out to " see what she could see," as they say. The first thing that struck her was the fact that the window was in a straight line above the hall-door, and only removed from it the distance of a foot or two. Instantly a demoniacal project of mischief flashed aerossher     fertile brain; and as she withdrew her head, her wicked eyes, under their long, drooping lashes, were fairly scintillating with the antici- pation of coming fun. "Do they use bells or knockers on their doors, around here?" she carelessly asked, as she flitted, about. "Some use one, some the other. There is a large brass-knocker on this door, I am sure you mulst have seen it." "I had forgotten. This is my trunk - isn't it? "Yes." "What time do-they go to bed here?" "Nine in summer-eight in winter." "Hum-m-m!  I know now. And do they stay out in that yard all the time?" "Oh no! As soon as it gets dusk, we come in, have supper, and then the larger girls prac- tice their music, or read, or write to their friends, or stu'dy, or sew, or do whatever they like; and the little girls of your division play about the halls and passages." "Um-m-m! I see," said Pet, in the same musing tone, while her wicked eyes, under their long, dark lashes, were twinkling with the very spirit of mischief. "Could you get me a good long cord-do you think? I want it for some. thing." "Yes, I think so. Do you want it now?" "Yes, please." "Very well; wait here, till I go up to my room and get it for you," said the unsuspecting young lady. "Oh, ching-a-ring-a-ring-chaw!" shouted Pet, dancing round the long room with irrepressible glee, when she found herself alone. ( 'Oh! won't I have fun, to-night! Won't I show them what spiritual rapping is!' Won't there be weeping and gnashing of teeth before morn- ing!  "'Mrs. MacShuttle, She lived in a scuttle,   , Along with her dog and her cat.'  sang the imp, seizing a huge pitcher from one of the washstands, and flourishing it over her head as she sang. Round and round she whirl- ed, until her pitcher came furiously against the wall, and smash! in a thousand fragments, it I fell on the floor.  Arrested in her dance, Firefly stood still one moment, in dismay. Here was a winding-up of  her exte'mpore waltz quite unlooked for. There on the floor lay the, pitcher, shivered into at-  oms, and there stood Pet, holding the handle  still, and glancing utterly aghast from the ruins ( on the floor to the fragment of crockery in her i 'hand. "Whew I here's a go!" was the elegant ex-  pression first jerked out of Pet, by the exigency j of the case. "I expect this pitcher's been in the establishment ever since it was an establish-  ment, and would have been in it as much long.   er, only for me. Pet, child, look out I There'll be murder, distraction, and a tearing off of our shirts! Fall of Jerusalem! won't Miso Sharpe give me a blowing-up, though!" "O Miss Lawless  what have you done?" cried the young lady, in tones of consternation,' as she suddenly entered. "Smashed the crockery," said Pet, coolly, pointing to the wreck. "Oh dear me! 6 Miss Lawless I how could you do so?" "Didn't go for to do it. Got smashed itself." "Miss Sharpe will be very angry, Miss Law- less." "Well, that don't worry me much," said Pet "I am afraid she will blame me. I should not have left you here alone," said the young lady, twisting her fingers in distress. "No; she won't. I'll send out and buy an- other one." "Oh, you can't. The servants are not allow- ed to run errands-for the young ladies without permission from Mrs. Moodie. You will have to tell Miss Sharpe." "Well, come along, then; I'll tell her. Did you bring the string?" "Yes; here it is. O Miss Lawless  I am exceedingly sorry." "Well-my goodness! you needn't be. An old blue pitcherl I used to throwhalfa dozen of them, every day, at the servants, at home, and nobody ever made a fuss about it. A com- mon old blue pitcher-humph!" "Oh! but it was different at home. They were your own, there; and Miss Sharpe is so- queer! She will scold you dreadfully." "Well, so will I, then-there! I can scold as long and as loud as she can, I reckon. An old blue pitcher! Humph! Wish to gracious I had smashed the whole set,-and made one job of it." By this time, they had reached the play- ground; and making her way through the crowd, Pet marched resolutely up to Miss Sharpe, and confronted that lady with an ex- pression as severe as though she were about to lave her arrested for high treason. "Miss Sharpe, look here!" she began. "I've been up-stairs and smashed an old blue pitcher. There!" "What?" said Miss Sharpe, knitting her brows, and rather at a loss. "Miss Lawless was in 'the children's dormi- tory, Miss Sharpe," explained the girl who had been Pet's guide, " and she accidentally broke one of the pitchers. She could not help it, I assure you." "But I know she could help it," screamed Miss Sharpe. "She has done it on purpose, just to provoke me. O you little limb you! -you unbearable little mischief-maker! You deserve to be whipped till you can't stand." "See here, Miss Sharpe; you'll be hoarse, p   pretty soon, if you keep screaming that way," said Pet, calmly. "I'll go and tell Mrs. Moodie. I'll go this minute. Such conduct as this, you'll see, will not be tolerated here," shrieked the exasperated lady, shaking her fist furiously at Pet. ' Mrs. Moodie has gone out," said one of the girls. "Then I'll tell her to-morrow. I'll-" Here the loud ringing of a bell put a stop to further declamation, and the girls all flew, flock- ing in, and marched, two by two, into another large room, where a long supper-table was laid out. It was almost dark when the evening meal was over. Then the larger girls dispersed themselves to their various avocations, and the younger ones, under the care of a gentler mon- itor than Miss Sharpe, raced about the long halls and passages, and up and down stairs. Now was the time Pet had been waiting for. Gliding, unobserved, up-stairs, she entered the dormitory, and securing one end of the string to the bed-post, let the remainder drop out of the window. Then returning down-stairs, she passed unnoticed through the front hall, and finally secured the other end of the string to the knocker of the door. It was too dark, as she knew, for any one to observe the cord in opening the door. This done, she returned to her companions, 'all aglow with delight at her success so far; and instigated by her, the din and uproar soon grew perfectly unbearable, and the whole pha- lanx were ordered off to bed halt an hour earlier than usual, to get rid of the noise. As Judge Lawless had said, it was a rigidly strict establishment; and the rule was, that at half-past nine, every light should be extinguish- ed, and all should be safely tucked up in bed. Fven Mrs. Moodie herself was no exception to this rule; for, either thinking example better than precept, or being fond of sleeping, ten o'- clock always found her in the arms of Mor- pheus. Therefore. at ten o'clock, silence, and dark- ness, and slumber, hung over the establishment of Mrs. Moodie. In the children's dormitory, nestling in their white-draped beds, the little, tired pupils were sleeping the calm, quiet sleep of childhood, undisturbed by feverish thoughts or gloomy forebodings of the morrow. Even Miss Sharpe had testily permitted herself to fall stiffly asleep, and lay with her mouth open, stretched out as straight as a ramrod, and about as grim. All were asleep-all but one. One wicked, curly, mischief-brewing little  head, there, was by far too full of naughty  thoughts to sleep. Pet, nestling on her pillow, was actually quivering with suppressed delight  at the coming fun.  She heard ten o'clock-eleven strike; and then  she got up in bed and commenced operations.   I Her first care was to steal softly to one of the wash-stands, and thoroughly wet a sponge, which she placed on the window-ledge within her reach, knowing she would soon have occa- sion to use it. Taking some phosphureted ether, which she had procured for the purpose of " fun " before leaving home, she rubbed it carefully over her ace and hands. Reader, did you ever see any one in the dark with their faces and hands rubbed over with phosphureted ether? looking as though they were all on fire-all encircled by flames? If you have, then you know how our Pet looked then. Sitting there, a frightful object to contem- plate, she waited impatiently for the hour of midnight to come. The clock struck twelve, at last; the;silence was so profound, that the low, soft breathiing lg the young sleepers around her could be phanly heard. In her long, flowing night-wrapper, Pet got up and tip-toed softly across the room to the bed where the cross she-dragon layS Now, our Pet never thought there could be the sligltest danger in what she was about to do, or, wild as she was, she would most assured- ly not have done it. She merely wished to frighten Miss Sharpe for her obstinacy, unbe- lief in ghosts and crossness, and never gave the matter another thought. 'lTerefore, though it was altogether an inexcusable trick still, Pet was not so very much to blame as may at first appear. Now she paused for a moment to contemplate the sour, grim-looking sleeper-thinking her even more repulsive in sleep than when awake; and then laying one hand on her face, she ut- tered a low, hollow groan, destined for her ears alone. Miss Sharpe, awakened from a deep sleep by the disagreeable and startling consciousness of an icy-cold hand on her face, started up in affright, and then she beheld an awful vision! A white spectre by her bedside, all in fire, with flames encircling face and hands, and sparks of fire seemingly darting from eyes and mouth! For Qle terrible moment she was unable to utter a sound for utter unspeakable horror. Then with one wild, piercing shriek, she buried her head under the clothes, to shut out the aw- ful spectre. Such a shriek as it was! No hy- ena, no screech-owl, no peacock ever uttered so ear-splitting, throat-rending a scream as that. No word or words in the whole English lan- guage can give the faintest idea of that terrible screech. Before its last vibration had died away on the air, every sleeper in the establish- ment, including madame herself, had sprung out of bed, and stood pale and trembling, listening for a repetition of that awful cry. From twen- ty beds in the dormitory, twenty little sleepers sprung, and immediately began to make night     hideous with small editions of Miss Sharpe's shriek. Gathering strength from numbers, the twenty voices robe an octave higher at every scream, anld yell after yell, in the shrillest so- prano, pierced the air, although not one of them bad the remotest idea of what it was all about. At the first alarm, Firefly had flitted. swiftly and fleetly across the room; jumped into bed, and seizing the sponge, gave her face and hands a vigorous rubbing; and now stood screaming with the. rest, not to. say considerably louder than any of them. "O Miss Sharpe, get up the house is afire! we're all murdered in our beds!" yelled Pet, going over and catching that lady by the shoul- der with a vigorous shake. And " O Miss Sharpe! O Miss Sharpe! Get up. Oh-oh-oh!" shrieked the terrified children, elustering round the bed, and those who could, springing in and shaking her. With a, disagreeable sense of being half crushed to death, Miss Sharpe was induced to remove her head from under the clothes, and, cast a quick, terrified glance around. But the coast was clear-the awful spectre was gone. And now another noise met her ears- the coming footsteps of every one within the walls of the establishment, from Mrs. Moodie down to the little maid-of-all-work in the kitchen. In they rushed, armed with bedroom-candlesticks, rulers, ink-bottles, slate-frames, and various, other warlike weapons, prepared to do battle to the last gasp. And then it was: "Oh, what on earth is'the matter? What on earth is the matter? What is the matter?" from every lip. Miss Sharpe sprang out of bed and fled in ter- ror to the side of Mrs, Moodie. "Oh, Mrs. Moodie, it was awful Oh, it was dreadful! With flames of fire coming out of its mouth, and all dressed in white. Oh, it was terrible Ten feet high, and all in flames!" shrieked Miss Sharpe, like one demented. "Miss Sharpe, what in the name of Heaven is all this about I?' asked the startled Mrs. Moodie, while the sixty " young ladies " clung together, white with mortal fear. "O Mrs. Moodie, I've seen it It was fright- fl! all in flames of fire i" screamed the terri- fied Miss Sharpe. "Seen it! seen what? Explain yourself, Miss Sharpe." . "' Oh, it was a ghost f a spirit a demon! a fiend I I felt its blazing hands cold as ice on my face. Q good Heaven!"And again Miss Sharpe's sjiek at the recollection resounded through the room. "Blazing hands cold as ice! Miss Sharpe, you are crazy! Calm yourself, I command you, and explain why we are all roused out of our beds at this hour of the night by your shrieks," said Mrs. Moodie, fixing her sharp eyes steadily upon her.   That look of rising anger brought Miss Sharpe to her senses. Wringing her hands, she cried our: "Oh, I saw a ghost, Mrs. Moodie; an awful ghost! It came to my bedside all- on fire, and-" "A ghost! nonsense, Miss Sharpe " broke out the now thoroughly enraged Mrs. Moodie, as she caught Miss Sharpe by the shoulder, and shook her soundly. "You have been dream- ing; you h have had the nightmare; you are cra- zy! A pretty thing, indeed! that- the whole house is to be aroused and terrified in this way. I am ashamed of you, Miss Sharpe, and you ought to be ashamed of yourself to teriffy those little children committed to your charge in this manner. I never heard of anything so abom- inable in my life before," said the angry Mrs. Moodie. "Oh, indeed, indeed I saw it! Oh, indeed, indeed I did 1" protested Miss Sharpe, wringing her hands. "Silence, Miss Sharpe! don't make a fool of yourself! I'm surprised at youl a woman of your years giving way to such silly fancies. You saw it, indeed A nice teacher you'are to watch young children I Return to your beds, young ladies; and, do you, Miss Sharpe, return to yours; and don't let me ever hear anything more about ghosts, or I shall instantly dismiss you. Ghosts, indeed! you're a downright fool, Miss Sharpe-that's. what you are!" exclaimed the exasperated lady. But even the threat of dismissal could not totally overcome Miss Sharpe's fears now, and catching hold of Mrs. Moodie's night-robe as she was turning away, she wildly exclaimed: "O Mrs. Moodie, let us have a light in the room for this night -at leastl I cannot sleep a wink unless you do." "Miss Sharpe, hold your tongue? Do you see how you have frightened these children? Go to bed and mind your business. Young la- dies, I think I'told you before to go to your rooms-did I not?" said Mrs. Moodie, with still increasing anger. Trembling and terrified, the girls scampered like frightened doves back to their nests; and Mrs. Moodie, outraged and indignant, tramped her way to the bed she had so lately vacated, inwardly vowing to discharge Miss Sharpe as soon as ever she could get another to take her place.     ' And then the children in the dormitory crept shivering into bed, and wrapped their heads up in the bed-clothes, trembling at every sound. And Miss Sharpe, quivering in dread, shrunk into the smallest possible space in hers, and having twisted herself into a round ball under the quilts, tightly shut her eyes, and firmlyresolved that nothing in the earth, or in the waters under the earth, should make her open those eyes again that night. And our wicked Firefly,   chuckling inwardly over the success of her plot, jumped into hers, thinking ofthe fun yet to come. An hour passed. One o'clock struck; then two, before sleep began to visit the drowsy eye- lids of the roused slumberers again. Having assured herself that they had really fallen asleep at last, Pet sat up in n bed softly, opened the window an inch or two, screened from view-had any one been watching her, which there was not-by the white curtains of the bed.' Then, lying composedly back on her pillow, she took hold of her string, and began pulling away. Knock! knock knock I knock! Rap  rap! rap! rap I! rap I! The clamor was deafening; the music was awful at that silent hour of the night. Up and down the huge brass knocker thundered, waking a peal of echoes that rang and rang through the house. Once again the house was aroused; once again every sleeper sprang out of bed, in terror, wonder, and consternation. "O Holy Saints! what is that? O Good Heavens! who can that'be at this time?' came simultaneously from every lip. Knock! knock! knock I Rap! rap  rap! louder and louder still.  Every girl flitted from her room, and a uni- versal rush was made for the apartments of Mrs. Moodie-all but the inmates of the dormitory. Miss Sharpe was too terrified to stir, and tle children, following her lead, contented them- selves with lying still, .and renewing their screams where they had left them off an hour or so before. Now Mrs. Moodie, half-distracted, rushed out, and encountered her forty terrified pupils in the hall. "O Mrs. Moodie! what has happened to-night? We will all be killed! Oh, listen to that!" 1 Knock I knock! knock! knock knock! The c clamor was deafening.           t "We had better open the door, or they will break it down!" said Mrs. Moodie, her teeth I clattering with terror.  "Send for Bridget; she is afraid of nothing " j suggested one of the trembling girls.   a Two or three of the most courageous made a t rush for the litchen; and Bridgeta strapping 1 nymph of five feet nine, and " stout according" a -was routed out of bed, to storm the breech. J "Faith, thin, I'll open the door, if it was the t divil himself!" exclaimed Bridget, resolutely, t as she grasped the poker, and, like the leader of  a forlorn hope, turned the key in the door.  Back she swung it with a jerk. The knock- i ing instantly ceaspd. Up flew the poker and down it descended with a whack, upon-vacan- I cy! There was no ope there I  "The Lord be between us an' harm " ex-  claimed Bridget, recoiling back "The divii a  one's there, good, bad, or indifferintl!"   "They must have ran away when y ou ope- ed the door!" said Mrs. Moodie, ia t i tones. "There is certainly somni oe thite l"- Bridget descended the steps, and loked up and down the street; but all was silent, lonelY and deserted--not a living creature was to L seen.  "Come in, and lock the door," said the ap- palled Mrs. Moodie.' ", What ii -the name of Heaven could it have been P" - "Oh, the house is haunted l-the house is haunted " came from the white lips of the young ladies. " O Mrs. Moodie I do not ask us to go back to our rooms. We dare not. Let us stay with you until morning 1" "Very well," said Mrs. Moodie, not sorry to have company; "'come into my room. Bridg- et, bring lights."  The door was unlocked. The frightened girls hustled, pale, and frightened, jand shivering with superstition, awe, and undefined apprehen- sion, into Mrs. Moodie's room; whilst that lady herself, crouching in their midst, was scarcely less terrified than they. Bridget brought in lights; and their coming renewed the courage the darkness had totally quenched. "Now, Mistress Moodie, ma'om," said Brid- get, crossing her arms with grim letermination, "I'm goin' to sit at that door till mornin', if its plazin' to ye, and if thim blackguardly spal- peens comes knockin' dacent people out av their beds ag'in, be this an' that, I 'll ave the mark of me fve fingers on thim, as sure; as my name's Biddy Malone!" "Very well, Bridget," said Mrs Moodie. "It may be some wickedly-disposed person wishing to frighten the young ladies; ad if it is, the heaviest penalties of the law shall be inflicted on them."          I Arming herself with the poker, Bridget softly turned the key in the door, and laid her hand on the lock, ready to opeh it at a second's no- tice.            {. Scarcely had she taken her stand, when knock! kuock! it began again; but the third rap was abruptly cut short by her violently jerking the door open, and liftinggthe poker for a blow that would have done honor to Donny- brook Fair. But a second time it fell, with a loud crack, upon-nothing! 'Far or near, not a soul was to be seen. Bridget was dismayed. For the first time in her life s sensation of terror filled her brave Irish heart. Slamming the door violently' to, she looked it again, and rushed, with open eyes and mouth, into"the room where the terror-stricken mistress And pu pile sat, mute with fear.  "Faith, it's the dvil himself that's at it! Lord pardon me for namin' him I Och, holy mratyrs! look down on' s this night for a poor, disonsolate set' or erayters, and-the Cross of Christ be between us an' all harm t" Aid dropping a little bob of! a courteuy.     Lridget devoutly cut the sign of the cross on her forehead with her thumb. Unable to, speak or move with terror, mis- tress, pupils, and servants crouched together, long and praying wildly for morning to come. Again the knocking, commenced, and contin- ued, without intermission, for 'one whole mortal hour. Even the neighbors began to be alarmed at the unusual din, and windows were opened, and night-capped heads thrust out to see who it was who knockedso incessantly. Three o'clock struck, and then, Pet beginning to feel terribly sleepy, and quite satisfied with the fun she had had all night, cut the cord, and drew it up. The clamors, of course, instantly ceased; and five minutes after, Firefly, the wicked cause of all this trouble, was peacefully sleeping. But no other eye in the house was destined to close that night-or, rather, morning. Hud- dled together below, the frightened flock waited for the first glimpse of morning sunlight, think- ing all the while that never was there a night so ong as that. Up in the children's dormitory, 311-from Miss Sharpe downward-lay in a cold perspiration of dread, trembling to stay where they werc. yet not daring to get up and join their companions below. "I'll never stay another night in this dread- ful place if I only live to see morning!" was the inward exclamation of every teacher and pupil who could by any means leave. And so, in sleepless watchfulness, the dark, silent hours of morning wore on; and the first bright ray of another day's sunlight streaming in through the windows, never beheld an assem- blage of paler or more terrified faces than were gathcred together in the establishment of Mrs. toodie. ,              , CHAPTER XXII. PET FINISHES HER EDUCATION. "And her brow cleared, but not her dauntless eye ; The wind was down, but still the sea ran high." -DON JUAN. Accustomed to early rising from her infancy, the first beam of morning sunshine found Pet out of bed, and dressed. The other girls, with Miss Sharpe, were up, too, hastily throwing on their clothes, and look- ing pale, haggard, aid worn, from the previous night's excitement and want of sleep. Quivering with the remembrance of last night's frolic, and the terror and consternation that would follow it to-day, Pet stood before the mirror, bathing her hands and face, and curling her short, boyish, black ringlets. The others did not wait for this, but as soon as they were dressed made a grand rush for the lower rooms, where they lnew the remainder of the Ihousehold were assemnbled. And here they found them, still in their night-robes, just beginning to find their tongues, and venturing to talk overthe exciting events of the previous   night. Petronilla, with her keen sense of the ludicrous, had much ado to keep from lauglh- ing outright at their wild eyes and affriglted whispers, but drawing her face down to the length of the rest, she talked away as volubly as any of them of her terror and wonder, protesting she would write to her papa to take her home, for that she wasn't iccustomed to living in haunted houses. At last, becoming aware of their deshabille, the young ladies decamped up stairs to don more becoming garments, and talk over, in the privacy of their own apart- ments, the ghost and the mysterious rapping. Mrs. Moodie, recovering her presence of mind and dignity, with the coming of daylight, re- solved to lose no time in having the matter fully investigated. Her first act was to have the house searched from top to bottom, and the young ladies willingly engaging in the search ; every corner, cranny, and crevice, from attic to cellar, was thoroughly examined. Had a needle been lost it must have been found, but no trace of last night's visitor could be discovered. "Oh, it's no use looking; it was a ghost!" exclaimed Miss Sharpe. "Oh, yes, it was a ghost! tt must have been a ghost!" echoed all the young ladies simultaneously. "But ghosts always come in through a key- 'hole-at least the ghosts up our way do," said Pet; "so where was the use of it's knocking, and making such a fuse last night?' No one felt thl:meltves qualified to answer the questions, so tho hunt was given over, and the huntcrs, in much disorder, were told they night amuse themselves in the play-ground that morning, instead ofreciting, as usual. The teachers did not feel themselves able to pursue their customary avocations until some light had been thrown upon the mystery. Then' Mrs. Moodie put on her bonnet and shawl, and went out without any definite object in view, unless it was to see if the ghost had left any clue to its whereabouts on the street. As a very natural consequence, her eye turned upon the huge brass knocker that had been so in- strumental in last night's din; and from it, to her surprise, she beheld a long, stout cord dangling. iPetronilla, of course, in cutting the string, could not reach down to sever it, and a half-yard or so still' waved in triumph in the morning air. Mts. Moodie, though a fine lady, tas sharp, and "wide awake," and in this cord she per- ceived some clue to the affair of the previous night. As she still gazed on it in the same way as a detective might, as the evidence ot some secret crime, the young girl who had given Pet tihe cord passed through the hall and paused to look at the open door which Mrs.. Moodie was so intently surveying. Her eye fell on the cord.; she started, took a step forward, looking puzzled and surprised.   "It was no spirit, you see, that was rapping last night, Miss Hughes," said Mrs. Moodie, sharply; "this cord has had something to do with it." "Why, that cord is mine-or rather was," said the young lady, examining it, "we used to use it in our room for hanging pocket-handker- chiefs and collars to dry on." "Yours, Miss Hughes," said Mrs. Moodie facing round with an angry light rising in her eyes. "It was mine, madam; I gave it last even- ing to the new pupil, Miss Lawless." "To Miss Lawless?" "Yes, madam, when we were in the dormi- tory last night, she asked me for a string, and I brought her this, havidg no other: she has cut it, I see." "What did Miss Lawless want of it- -do you know?" "I do nob know; she did not say: it is very strange how it can have gor here n A new light suddenly flashed through the mina of Mrs. Moodie. She recollected what Pet's father had told her of the mischief-loving propensities of that young lady. What if all her meekness and docility had been assumed! Sloe glanced up at the window beside Pet's bed, and instantaneously the whole truth dawned upon her.     .   . . And then a change most wonderful to see came over the features of Mrs. Moodie. Dark, and stern, and determined, she turned from the door, untied the cord, and marched with it directly into the house. s "Miss Hughes," she said, curtly, "go and tell all the teachers and pupils to assemble in the school-room at once. I think I have found out the origin of the disturbance now." Wondering and perplexed, Miss Hughes went s and 'delivered her message; -and on fire with eager curiosity, a, universal rush was made for the classes, and in silent expectation they  waited for the coming of Mrs. Moodie. They had not long to wait. With a hard, ] metallic tramp, that announced her state off mind, that lady rustled in, and in ominous si-  lence took her seat, motioning the others to re- t sume theirs with a wave of her hand.   . Every eye was bent upon her in silent awe, r as they noticed her stiff, rigid sternness. Her eye passed over the rest, and like a hound r scenting his prey, fixed itselfpiercingly on Pet. a "Miss Lawless," she said, in a stern, meas-  ured tone, "come here." "Stars and stripes!" ejaculated Pet, inward.  ly, as she rose to,obey; "can she have found me out so soon. O Pet Lawless, maybe you ain't in for it now!" All eyes were now turned in silent amaze- u ment on Pet. Slowly Mrs. Moodie thrust her hand in her pocket, still sternly transfixing Pet fi with her eyes, and drew out-a piece of cord! i   At the sight, all Pet's doubts were removed; she was discovered. Then all personal appre- o hensions vanished, her perverse spirit rose, and bold, dauntless, and daring she stood before her stern judge-her straight, lithe form defiantly erect, her malicious black eyes dancing with fun. "bMiss Lawless, do you know anything of , this?" demanded Mrs. Moodie, holding it up. "Slightly acquainted," said Pet, " saw it last night for the first time." "Will you be kind enough to state for what purpose you borrowed it?" "Yes'm, to have some fun with." "Fun!  ray be a little more explicit, Miss Lawless. Was it you that tied it to the door; last night." "Ycs'm." "And by that mec s you knocked at the door, and created all the alarm and confusion that so terrified us all," said Mrs. Moodie, with a rapidly darkening brow. "Yes'm," said Pet, loudly, nothing daunted. A low murmur of surprise and horror, at this atrocious confession, ran round the room. "And what was your design in thus throwing the household into terror and consternation, Miss Lawless 1"'  "I told you before-just for fun," said Pet, coolly. Mrs. Moodie compressed her lips, and though her sallow face was dark with supppressed anger, she remained outwardly calm. Low murmurs of amazement, a nger, and' indignation, ran through the room; but Pet stood upright, bold, and defiantly, before them all, as though she had done nothing whatever to be ashamed of. "Perhaps, then, since you are so fond of practical jokes, you were the ghost Miss Sharpe saw, likewise," said Mrs. Moodie. "Yes, I was," said Pet casting a flashing glance at that lady, who sat listening, with hands and eyes uplifted in horror. "No, she wasn't," said Miss Sharp; " the one I saw was all on fire."  "Silence, Miss Sharpe I leave the matter to me," said Mrs. Moodie, sternly. Then turning to Pet) "Since you are so candid, Miss Law- less, win you inform me in what manner you rendered yourself so frightful an obje t?" Yes, it was easy enough," said Pet. "I just rubbed some pklosphureted ether on my hands and face. It sone in the dark, and scared her; and that was all I wanted." A. profound silence for one moment reigned throughout the room. Every one sat, over- whelmed, looking at each other as though un- able to credit what they heard. "  And what evil motive had you in terrifying us so?" resumed Mrs. Moodie, after pause. "I hadn't any evil motive. I just wanted fun, I tell you. Papa sent me here, axd I didn't want to come, but rhad to; so, as it as horrid     dull here, I thought I'd just amuse myself scar- ing you all, and I can't see where was the harm either I've always been used to do as I like, and this ain't no circumstance to what's to come next!"And Pet's flashing eyes blazed open defiance. Mrs. Moodie rose from her seat, her sallow complexion almost. white with anger, her sharp eyes bright with an angry light.  "Some one else will have a voice in this mat- ter, Miss Lawless. Had I been aware of the sort of girl you were, rest assured that, much as I respect your father, you should never have entered here. In all my experience it has never been my misfortune to encounter so much depravity in one so young. I shall instantly write to your father to come and take you home, for no inducement could persuade me to allow you to become a member of this establishment. You will consider yourself expelled, Miss Law- less, and must leave the house as soon as your father can come to take you home." "Well, I'm sure I'm glad of it," said Pet, im- patiently; "for of all the stupid old holes I ever saw, this is the worst lI I wouldn't be paid to stay here-no, not if you were to make me president to-morrow for it." "No such inducement is likely to be offered, Miss Lawless. Your presence here, I can assure you, is not coveted. Miss Sharpe, take this young lady to one of the spare rooms, and re- main there to watch her until her father comes and removes her. Young ladies, you will now resume your studies as usual." And with a frigid bow, Mrs. Moodie swept from the room, leaving all behind her lost in a maze of wonder and indignation. Miss Sharipe, with her little eyes glistening, approached and took Pet by the shoulder, to lead her from the room; but Pet angrily jerk- ed herself free from her hated touch, and ex- claimed : "Let me alone! I can walk without your help. Go ahead and I'll follow, but keep your hands to yourself." Miss Sharpe, finding herself foiled even in the moment of victory, walked sullenly on, and P, -with head up and elbows squared, tripped after her to the solitude of" one of the spare rooms," where, every amusement was debarred her but that of making faces at Miss Sharpe. An hour after, a longepistle, detailing in glow- ing colors Pet's wicked actions of the night be- fore, was dispatched by Mrs. Moodie to Judge Lawless. The result of it was, that the evening of the second day after, that gentleman arriyed, nearly beside himself with rage. Then Mrs. Moodie resapitulated the whole affair, and ended by prdtesting that no amount of money could prevail upon her to keep so vicious a child in her school another day. All her pupils Would become depraved by her. eample;   and the result would be, their parents would take them home, and thus she would lose her. school. Judge Lawless haughtily replied she need be under no apprehension, for he would instantly take his daughter home. Pet was accordingly dressed, her baggage packed up, and brought down to her father. With all her boldness she yielded for a mo- ment as she met his eye. But without one sin- gle word of comment, he motioned her to pre- cede him into the carriage; and in silence they started. During the whole journey home, the judge never condescended to open his mouth or ad- dress her a single word. Pet, just as well pleased to be left to herself, leaned hack in the carriage to meditate new mischief when she would get home. But Miss Petronilla Lawless soon found she was not quite so much her own mistress as she thought. The evening of the second .day brought them to Judestown. As they passed the village, en- tered the forest road, and came within sight of old Barrens Cottage, Pet began to think of Ray and wonder how he was, and if it would be safe to ask her father to let her go in and see. One glance at that gentleman's fade, however, convinced her that it would not be safe, and that prudence was by far the safest plan just then. Hoping Erminie might be at the door as she passed, she thrust her head out of the carriage window, when her father silently caught her by the shoulder, pulled her back with no gentle hand, and shut dbwn the blind. Then the very demon of defiance sprang into the eyes of the elf; and facing round, she was about to begin a harangue more spirited than respectful; but something in the cold, stern, steelly eye bent on her quenched the indignant light in her own and she sulkily relapsed into silence, thinking a "dumb devil" would be more agreeable to her father just then than a talking one. Ranty was out on the verandah, walking up and down with his hands in his pockets and whistling"Yankee Doodle." Pet favored him with a nod as she tripped into the house, while Ranty's eyes grew as large as two full moons in his amazement.. Darting after her, he caught her by the arm as she was entering the door, and exclaimed: "I say, Pet; what in the world brings you home again?  I thought you were gone to school!" "So I was." "Then why are you here?" "Finished my education. Told you I would in a week," said Pet, with a nod. "Randolph, go off and mind your business, sir," exclaimd his father, sternly. "Here-this W  ra, you   So Baying he caught Pet by the shoulder,   and unceremoniously drew her after him, up- stairs into the library. Then shutting the door, he threw himself into his arm chair, and folding his arms across his chest, favored Pet with an awful look. Miss Lawless, standing erect before him, bore this appalling stare without blushing. "Well, and what do you think of yourself now, Miss Petronilla Lawless?" was the first question he deigned to ask her since their meet- ing. "Just what I did before," said Pet, nothing daunted. "And what may that be, pray?" said her father, with an icy sneer. "Why, that I'm a real smart little girl, and can keep my word like a man! -I said I'd finish my education and be back in a week, and-here I am." judge, as lie listened to this audacious reply; but, maintaining an outer semblance of calm- noes, he asked: "And how have you determined to spend your time for the future, Miss Lawless?" "Just as I did before-riding round and vis-  iting my friends." A chilling smile settled on the lips of the judge. 1 So that is your intention, is it? Well, now t hear mine. Since you will neither stay at school  nor behave yourself as a young lady should  wihen at home, I shall sell your pony and proeure you a tutor who will be your teacher and guard at the same time. Whenever you move from the house, either he or I will accompany you;  and I shall take proper steps to prevent your visiting an of those you call your friends. You  will find, Miss Lawless, I am not to be diso- beyed with impunity in the future. Perhaps, I after a time, if I find you docile and attentive jo to my orders, I may forget your past miscon- duct and restore you some of your privileges.  again. This, however, will entirely depend on the manner in which you conduct yourself I h have already a gentleman in view who will un- dertake the office of tutor, and until he comes h I shall have you locked in your room and your meals brought up to you. Not a word Mi   w Lawless. I have borne with your impertinence t too long, and you will now find I can now adopt a different course. Solitude will cool your blood, ex I trust, and bring you to your senses."  w "  So saying, the judge calmly arose, rang the bell, and then reseated himself.      in You should have seen how Pet stormed and raved, and scolded, then, vowing she would kill in herself; she would jump out of the window'; she would set the house afire and bulm them all in de their beds; she would have no tutor; she would 1" murder him if- he came. The judge listened to allthis wih the most perfect indifference, until the entrance of a negress put ancnd to the scene.   - I "Take Miss Petronilla upstairs to the attic, r, and lock her in," was the judge's command. g  But he soon found this was easier said than n done; for seizing a small chair, Pet brandished it over her head, and threatened instant annihi- e lation to the first who would come near her. The judge arose, and with a sudden snatch f caught hold of it. Pet clung to it like a hero, t scolding and voiferating at the top of her lungs - still; but she was as a fly in her atther's grasp, and she was speedily disarmed-and pinned. 4I will bring her up myself. Stand out of the way, Dele," said the judge. Holding her firmly, the judge drew her with him up-stairs, opened the attic door, thrust her in, locked it, and left Miss Pet in Solitude and darkness, and to her own reflections. There was no window in the attie, so her threat of casting herself from it went for naught. As for her other threats, the judge paid about as mulch attention to them as he Would to the buzzing of a fly on the window. He then mounted his horse, and rode off, having given orders that Miss Petronilla's meals shouTd be regularly brought to her, but on no condition' should she be allowed to get out. Pet, for once fairly conquered, sat down, de- termined to do something desperate; and in this frame of mind she was discovered by Ran- ty, who, hearing of her melancholy fate, came up-stairs and took his station outsid the door. Hillo, Pet!" he began. "Hillo, yourself," replied Pet, sulkily. "You're locked up-ain't you "   went oh Ranty.  Where's your eyes? Can't yousee I am?" snapped Pet. "Well, you know it serves you right?" said Ranty, by way of consolation, as heltook out a jack-knife, and began to whittle. "  Oh I if I was only out at him," muttered Pet between her teeth. "You haven't seen Erminie since you came home, I snppose," said-Ranty.  "  No, I liaven't! You know very well I haven't," said Pet, crossly. "How's Ray " ' Oh, he's first-rate - up and about. His wound didn't amount to much. I'm going over there now; got any message to send?" "No.; only to bid them good-bye. 'I never expect to see any of them again,)' said Pet, with a deep groan. "Why, where are you going " asked Ranty, n surprise. "To commit suicide. Do you know if chok- ing hurts much, Ranty?" Can't say-never tried it. If it's an esay death, just let me know when you've done it. I'm off." And Ranty decamped, whistling; and Pet was left looked up in the garret.     CHAPTER XXIII. THE ADOPTED DAUGHTER. "A briw whose frowns'are vastly grand, And eye of star-lit brightness; A swan-like neck, and arm and hand Of most bewitching whiteness."-PRAeD. And noW, reader, are you. willing to retrace your steps with me, and go back to those we left behind, long ago, in England? The sudden death of the Earl de Courcy fell heavily on the hearts of Lord Villiers and Lady Maude; but they mourned as those on whom the heaviest blow Fate can bestow has already fallen, and all other griefs seemed light in com- parison. The servants spoke of the dark, shrouded figure who had been seen to enter but never depart; but, as it was evident the earl had died, and not been murdered, no suspicion was attached to this. And so, with stately pomp and ceremony, Huglh Scyton, fourth Earl De Courcy, was laid to rest in the family vault, and Lord Villiers took the title, and was now fifth Earl De Courcy. In the bustle of the funeral, and the duties of his elevated station, he found means to withdraw his mind at times from the loss of Iis child; but his lovely countess mourned still, and "would not be'comforted." Had she been assured of Erminie's death, she would have grieved, it is true; but not as she grieved now. Had she beheld her beautiful child laid in the grave, she would have mourned; but not with mourning like this. What had been her fate,? Was she living or dead?  Into whose hands had she fallen? What would be her future fate? Night and day, these thoughts were ever up- pernost in her mind, darkening her very soul with anguish and despair. Enormous rewards had been offered for the slightest clue to her abductor; for upward of a year, the keenest detectives in England were put on the track. Buriall was in vain. The wide sea rolled between parints and child, and as well might they have lodked for last year's snow as for lost Erminie. Aid so' t last the search was given up, in de- spaiir ; the sensation it had created died away; the) circumstance was almost forgotten by all but the bereaved parents. But they--oh! nev- er could they forget sweet, blue-eyed little Er- minie I While the search continued, Lady Maude had hoped. -Day after day passed, and no tidings were brought her of the lost one; but still she wildly hoped. Month after month waned away; no trace of her child could-be dis- covered, and still she madly hoped. Each day she rose with beating heart, at the thought that perhaps before night sweet Erminie might be restored. Every passing footstep sent a thrill her heart, in the anticipation that it might be I, bearer of the glad tidings. Through all tle :g, weary months of vain watching and wait- ,..,. s Ihbad hoped against hope until the last: b        9"f   I But now-now when the search was given over in despair-came the full realization of her utter bereavement. Then the mortal anguish and despair she had long struggled against over- whelmed her soul; and, hating the sunlight, the glad earth, and bright sky above, she buried herself in deepest mourning, shut out the light from her room, and, in silence and darkness, still mourned for her lost one, and would not be comforted." On the heart of her husband the blow had fallen no less heavily; but crushing back his bitter sorrow to his own noble heart, he calmed himself to console her, Of all her friends-of all who loved her, she would admit no one to her presence but him; and folded to his heart, she sat for hours, day after day, white, still, cold, and silent. When he left her, she threw herself on her couch, and, in the same strange stupor, remained there until he came back. At first, he had permitted Nature to have her way, thinking her sorrow would be less endur- ing if left to wear itself out; but when months and months passed, and no change came, and he saw her growing whiter and more fragile day after day, he began to think it was time something else was done to rouse her from this destroying grief. "Maude, Maude! tlhis is wrong-this is sin- ful!" he said, holding her little wan hands, and looking sadly down intio the white, cold face. "iThis rebellious murmuring must not be in- dulged longer. Dearest Maude, rouse yourself from this trance of despair, and remember our Erminie is in the hands of One who ' doeth all for the best.' He who noteth even the fall of a sparrow will protect our angel-child." A. shiver, a shadow, a fluttering of the heart, and that was all. No words came from the pale lips. Have faith, sweet wife, and trust in God. Overcome this selfish grief, and remember there still remain many for you to love-many who love you. Live for them, my own Maude; live for me; live for the heaven where our Erminie has gone." " my child! my child! Would to God I had died for thee!" broke, in a passionate cry, from the white lips of the mother. The manly chest of Lord De Courcy rose and fell; the muscles of his face twitched for a mo- ment convulsively, and his arms strained her in a closer clasp. "Our child prays for her mother in heaven. Grieve not for her, dear love. And am I not left to you still "        . "Ol! it was my fault-it was my fault! I left her alone, helpless and unprotected, while I was enjoying myself down stairs. There was no one to watch her-no one to save her. All were gone, and she was left to perish! O my child! my child!" No words can describe the agony, the remorse, s  ,        '   e undying despair of her tones, so full of a mother's utmost woe. Then blessed tears came to her relief, and, bowing her head on her hus- band's shoulder, she wept convulsively. It was the first time she had shed a tear since the loss of her child. Lord De Courcy hailed this as a favorable sympttm, and permitted her to weep, undisturbed, until the very violence of her grief had exhausted itself; and then iraising her head, and smoothing back the dark curls from her high, pale brow, he said, softly: "My Maude is morbiid, i her grief. She has nothing to reproach herself with. 'Since Heaven willed we should lose one angel it gave us, is it not our duty to be resigned?" "Oh! if she had died-if I knew she were sleeping quietly in her grave, I could be resign- ed. But this dreadful uncertainty is killing nile O Ernest! since God gave me two children to love, why has he decreed I should lose them both " It was,the first time since her marriage she had spoken of that other child; and, for one in-  stant, Lord De Courcy's brow grew dark at the 1 unpleasant lmemlories it brought back. The I shadow was gone as quickly as it came; and,  stooping down, he pressed a kiss on her brow t as he replied: "Ie knows best, love. If He has given us s griefs, was He not a sufferer of sorrow himself s Rouse yourself from this lethargy of grief a Maude. Does it console you to make those fl around you wretched? For, Maude, I cannot a tell you how much it adds to my grief-how f( miserable it makes all those who love you, to e see you yield to this lethargy of despair. Do h you think I do 'not feel the loss of our beautiful a child? And yet, Maude, I do not give way to in this utter abandon of despair, because I know it is positively wrong. There is a sort of luxury fi in yielding to grief, and permitting it to have sp its way; but it is an essentially selfish luxury; b and I trust my Maude will view it in its proper t light, and pray for a more Christian spirit." ea "Forgive me, my husband;," she softly mur- tl mured. "Bear with me a little longer. I know s I am weak and rebellious; but, oh! there nev- w er was sorrow like unto mine!"  But from that day, a change was manifest in Lady Maude. Loving her husband with almost wa adoring worship, for his sake she strove to W shake off the 4 luxury of grief" he had spoken sh of, and resume her place in the world as before. a At first, the trial was hard-almost too hard for ap her to bear; but his pleased smile, his thrilling aw whisper of thanks, the earnest pressure of his I hand, told her her efforts were understood and gin appreciated, and more than 'rewarded her for st the sacrifice she had made. And thus five years glided away, unmarked by any event worth recording. The young Earl De Coury, as a statesman  and politician, ha become a demigod with the byayt^ ^^^^^^^   go mi    ^ ie it   a public, and one of the leading men of the day. ne In the whirl of busy life, in the maelstrom of is- politics, little Erminio was not forgotten, but her memory had grown to be'a sweet, haunting ce shadow of the past-a tender, beautiful recol ed lection, that came to him like a strain of sweet er music heard amid the discordant crash and din of of the busy world. He thought of her now ig as an angel-visitant, sent to smile on him for a 'Is moment, and then taken back to the heaven from which she had come, to pray for him there. as  The intense sorrow of the Countess De Cour- eu cy had also been subdued and rendered far less it poignant by time. She, too, had been obliged, by her elevated position, to resume that place re in the fashionable world she was so well fitted - to fill. Btt when in the glittering assembly, the brilliant ball, the gorgeous pageant, was sweet to lost Erminie forgotten? Never! Outwardly, m that one great sorrow had left its traces still in the deeper pallor of the lovely face, in the sub- ie dued liglt of the large, melancholy dark eyes, i- in the sott, tender snile that seemed somethine e holy as it hovered around the seet, beautifu' e lips. It had made her a gentler, better wom- [, an, with a heart ever melting at the cry of dis- tress, with a hand ever ready to relieve it. It Lad humbled .her pride; it had elevated hei; soul; it had made her gentle, tender, and more ? saintly than ever before. Her love forchildrea , amounted almost to a passion; those "hluman flowers," as some one prettily callsl them, could nat any time arrest her attention, and make her forget all else. Not a child anong all the earl's tenantry that hld not received proof of her affection, in the shape ,f creature-comforts; and even as she idolized childrenf so was she invariably loved by them in return. The country-seat of the De Courcys was a fine old mansion, embowered in trees, with splendid parks, fine preserves, and surrounded by beautiful scenery. Here, with tieir friends, the earl and countess were in the h4bit of going each Bsummer, to spend a few weeks; and here the happiest moments of Lady   Iaude were spent, wandering through the dim old woods, where she could dream, undisturbe  1, of her lost darling. Taking her accustomed walk, one day, she was arrested by the loud cries (of a hild near. With her sympathies ever enlisted for children, she glanced quickly in the direction, and beheld a little, infantile-looking child of two years old, apparently gazing bewildered, and' screaming away at the top of its lungs. Lady  Maude approached, and at a single glance' became deeply interested in this little stray waif. It was a face of singular beauty that met hetr eye. A  dark, olive complexion, large brilliant black eyes, coal-black hair, that now, hung tan; gled and disordered over her shoeuters. He1 little dress was torn, and her handi and faeI     scratched with rambles. The child was evi- dently lost., Lady Maude approached; and the child, turn- ing to gaze on her, for a moment ceased her cries. Stooping down, she parted the tangled elf-locks off the dark little face, and gazed long and (arnestly down into the bright eyes that fearlessly met her own. Something in that face hauntedA aid troubled her; it seemed to her she had'see4 it before. Yet that could hardly be ; for thiswas not a face easily forgotten, when once seen. The longer she looked, the more and more troubled she grew. It seemed to her she must have seen a face like this somewhere before, and that it was connected with some dark memory-what, she could not tell. The child, with the confiding confidence of infancy, looked up in the pale, sweet face of the lovely lady,' and artlessly lisped: "Ma mere." French," murmured Lady Maude, in sur- prise. "How in the world can she have come here? Where is ' mother,' little one?" she ask- ed,. in the same language. "Gone away-bad man get Rita," lisped the little innocent, pulling Lady Maude's dress, as if to urge her along. a The countess was at a loss, and perhaps would have gone with the little one farther in- to the woods, had not one of the earl's game- keepers come up at that instant, and taking off his hat, said,: lBetter not venture into the woods, my lady; a gang of gipsies passed through, last night." Thein eatehing sight of Rita, es the child called herself, he burst out, in surprise: "Why, bless my oil! here's one of 'em!" "Does this child belong to the gipsies?" asked Lady } aude, who never could hear the *ord gipsy 'without a sudden red light flushing to her pale heek. "Yes, my lady; saw her with them when they passed through, last night. S'pose she's got'left behlnd, in a mistake, I don't believe she's one of!'em, though,; stole, most likely." Do you think so?" said Lady Maude, with interest. " he does not look unlike a gipsy. Why do yoa think she has been stolen?" "Why, my lady, if she had beep one..of them- selves, some of the women would have had her; but no'body seemed to own this one, or to care about' her. I saw one of the men draw her alohneidofe ithe ead, last night, with a blow that kno6ked her 'dowin. Lord I how my fin- gers were itjhing to do the same to him!" *   Poor little thing 1" said Lady Maude, corn- passioantely, folding her in her arms with a sudden i pls, . ",Poor little thing! Yes, now I thiini of it, it is more than probable she h been Bitlen, fo0 she, cannot speak En- glish. Carry her to lthe hal l; her poor little feet are all but and bleedig, and. we cannot al- low lher to perish here." * i   The man lifted the child .. -is arms, and followed the countess to the hall, where she gave orders to have the little foundling proper- ly dressed and cared for, before presenting her to the earl. He smiled as he listened to her- story, and-followed her to the room where little Rita, now washed and neatly dressed, sat on the floor, playing with some toys. But as his eyes rested on the dark, brilliant face, the smile fad- ed away, and a half-puzzled, half-doubtful look 'took its place. "Is she not beautiful, dear Ernest? Does she riot remind you of some bright, rich, trop- ical flower?' said Lady Maude, in admiration. "Or some bright-winged gorgeous little but- terfly- yes,i' said Lor e ie Courcy. "But, Maude, it seems to me-I cannot account for it -but it seems as if I had seen her somewhere before." '  my lord! have you, too, observed it?" cried Lady Maude, breathlessly. It was the first thing that struck me, too. How very sin- gular!" "I suppose she resembles some one we have both known. There is no accounting for the strange likensses 'we see sometimes in total strangers. Well, what do you-intend to do with this little bird of paradise you have caught?" "Let her remain here in charge of the house. keeper. I cannot account for the strange in- terest I feel in this little one, Ernest." "I should like to see the child you do not feel an interest in, Maude," he said, smiling. But are there no means of finding out towhom she belongs? Her parents mnay be living, and lamenting her loss, even now, dear wife." A sudden shadow fell on them both at his words and the recollection they recalled. Earl De Courcy's eyes softened with a tender light as he gazed on the child's, and Lady Maude's ' were full of tears as she stooped down and kiss- ed the small, red mouth. "There are no means of discovering them, Ernest," she said, half-sadly. "The gipsies are gone; but Martha found a little silver cross round her neck, on which were engraven the letters, ' M. J. L.' I hae laid it carefully aside, though I fear her parentage may never be dis- covered."  ,' Well, do as you like with her, dear Maude. The child is certainly very beautiful. I believe you love all children for our lost treasure's sake " "Oh, I do--I do t my sweet, precious e r- minie! . my lord! if this little one had blue eyes and fair hair like her, I could find it in my heart to adopt her, for our darling's sake." You would not let such a trifle as that pre- vent you, Maude, if you really wished it. But' let the child remain. Rita-that's her name, isn't it?-come here, Rita." He 'held out his arms. Rita looked at him     from un er her long eye-lashes, and then going over, nestled within them just as Erminie used to do.  The simple action awoke a host of tender memories that for a moment nearly unnerved the earl. Rising hastily, he kissed Riti and left the room. But from that day the little stray Waif was an inmate of the hall, and with every passing day grew more and more deeply dear to the earl and countess. When they returned to the city, Lady Maude would not hear of parting With her pet; so Mademoiselle Rita and her nurse accompanied them; and soon both earl and countess learned to love her with a love only second to that they had cherished for lit- tle Erminie. And so, without legally adopting her, they learned to look upon her, as time passed, in the light of a daughter sent to take the place of the lost one. Rita addressed them by the endear- ing name of father and mother: and the world tacitly seemed to take it for granted that little 4 Lady Rita" was to be heiress and daughter of  Earl De Courcy. At seven years old, Lady Rita had her gov-  erness, and legan her education. She seemed tto have forgotten she ever had any other father  I and mother than Lord and-Lady De Courcy; I and they, quite as willing she should think so, never deceived her.  And so, while the lost daughter was living in  poverty, in a little cottage, in her far-distant  home, dependent on the bounty of others, the  adopted daughter was growing up surrounded  by every luxury that fond hearts could bestow  upon her CHAPTER XXIV.  PET GIVES HER TUTOR A LESSON. "Then on his brow the swelling vein Throbbed, as if back upon his brain The hot blood ebbed and flowed again."  --BYRON. O Your pardon, dear reader, if, without further to preface, I skip over a period of six years. One brief bird's-eye glance at the past, and then to go on with our history.          a Those six years had changed Ray and Ranty tt from boys of fifteen to young men of twenty- r one, and had metamorphosed Erminnie and Pet- li ronilla from little girls of twelve and eleven to young ladies of respectively eighteen and sev- g enteen. Beyond that, it had wrought little change in Judestown or its inhabitants.  ti Master Ranty having displayed, during his L rapid career at college, sundry " fast" tenden- fe cies, was sent to sea to take the nonsense out h of him. That young gentleman bore his fate pi with most exemplary patience and resignation, ah affirming that he always had a strong partiality ol for bilge-water and short allowance, and rather liked the cat-'-nine-tails than otherivise.! K Great was the delight of the worthy admiral, 8se e   ig ation; and it was partially through his influ- d  is uncle, when he heard ot his nephew' desti-r ence that, some months after, Ranty, radiant in r blue roundabout and bright brass button, stood d on the deck of the "Sea Nymph," and wrote rt his name, in tremendous capitals, as A"Randolph y Lawless, U S. N." y   Now remember, Minnie, you mustn't Xo and o fall in love with any body else," wa, his parting o words;  , if you do, I'll knock all creatio into g everlasting smash; I'll hurl the whole usiverse into the regions of Apace; I'll set fire to wery 1 blessed one of the United States, and bring all the world and Nebraska Territory to universal - ruination i"  Duly impressed by these appalling and blood. r chilling threats, Erminie dutifully promised not to "go and fall in love with anybo Jylse"l; and e Mr. Lawless, transformed into a dashing iddy gave his friends at home his blessing, and set off I on his first voyage.         i Ray, who, even in his boyhood had displayed great talent in legal matters, was now, y the kindness of the admiral, in New York Ci studying law. Erminie, too, was absent from home, now, Having completely captivated the heart Of the generous and eccentric Admiral Havenfil, as she did that most others, lie set about think- ilg, one day, hat was the best means tI dis- play his affection. Just then he Recollected her fondness for learning, and the fewopportunities she had to indulge that fondess ;and jumping up, he struck the table a vigorous blow, exclaim- ing: "I'll send her to school! Pet learns all them heathenish foreign languages, and makes alnuise on that big sea-chest of a piano, and so shall little Snowdrop. I'll send her to sehoo: this very day Hshiver my timbers if I don't!" And on the spur of the moment, the adiairal, witlh many a doleful grunt, dumped himself on old Riglbone's backi and jogged over the Leath to the cottage. There he made his proposal to Erminie, whose sweet blue eyes lit up at first with joy and gratitude; then came the thought of Ke- turn, now a helpless cripple, unable to leave her room, and her countenance fell, and the joyful light faded from her face. '"I am  very sprry, but I cannot leave my grandlnother," was her sad reply. Fiddle-dedee!" exclaimed the admiral, tes. tily. ", She's got Lucy to attend to her; and if Luoy is not enough,. she can have half-a-3ozen female women from  the White Squall to keep her in proper sailing order. I know h good place to send you to, Snowdrop, and go yoiu shall, 'nd that's al1 about it I 'l1 speak to the old lady, myself, about it's So the admirualstamped up-stasirs andspoke to Ketura, aceordiiigly, who gave a old, curt as- sent. And the result of this was that, thre-;     weeks after, Prminie was sent to a Convent of the Sacred Heart to study everything necessary for a finished education.  So, of our tour young friends, only. Firefly remained at bome, under the surveillance of a tutor. Pet had lost nbue of her mislhief-lov- ing propensities as she grew up.; in fact, they seemed to grow with her growth, until she be- came the maddest, merriest, skip-over-the-moon madcap that ever threw a peaceable community into convulsions. Never did a pupil drive a well-disposed teacher to the verge of distraction as Pet did hers; never did a naughty daughter throw a dignified " parient" into such undigni- fied paroxysms of rage as our Firefly did; never was a; quiet, orderly, stately mansion thrown upside-down, as if a tornado had torn through it every day, as Heath Hall was; nev- er in any other house was there heard such awful banging of dpors, and slamming down of win- dows, and teaning like a maniac up and down stairs, and rushing like a living'whirlwind in and out of every rooni in five minutes, as might be seen and heard here; never were servants so com- pletely at their wits' end ; never were quiet, busi- ness-like neighbors so completely' and utterly shocked and jastonished before as they were by the freaks of Judge Lawless's heiress. Well named was?t;. for never, since the plagues of Egypt, was the earth afflicted with a more law- less little hurricane than the hot-headed, laugh- ter-loving, mischief-making heiress in question. Very charming, withal, and bewilderingly-beau- tiful was Pet ;i and there was not a young man in Judestown,ior within twenty miles round, who would not hive given his, whiskers and mous- taches for one} glance from her " bonnie black e'e." But Pet didn't care a snap for all the young men in America, except, perhaps, Ray Oermaine; add she flirted away unmercifully, turned countless heads, and had more sighing swains at her feet than all the other belles of Judestown put together. Pet was natirally clever, bright, and talented, and could have progressed wonderfully in her studies if she had chosen;, but she didn't choose, and f6llowed her own secret will about learning, in spite of all the lectures, entreat- ies, and persuasions of her tutor, and the stern reproofs and angry outhursts of her father. Therefore, at 'eighteen, she could play a little, draw a littlet -ler talents in this respect were chiefly confined to caricature-sing a good deal, talk more' than she could sing, and Was still aware that English grammar was a little book wit  a gray over. At first, Mr. Garnet, her teacher, had insisted upon her applying herself; but seeing that Pet only listened very dutifully and then did is she liked after, he gave it up, and allowed ler now pretty much to do as she liked.  Pet had from the first oonceived a strong dis- like to this gentleman-a dislike that increased I,   every day. This was the more surprising, as his conduct, morals, and manners, were irre- proachable, and he was an immense favorite with the judge and everybody else. In person he was a tall, light-haired, gray-eyed, effeminate- looking young man; easy and courteous in man- ner, polished in address, a finished scholar, and- strict Christian. But Pet's keen gaze had de- tected the concealed cunning in the eye; the sardonic smile, the unscrupulous look the face sometimes wore; the hard, crafty, cruel expres- sion of the mouth. Therefore, all his virtue was to her hypocrisy; his goodness, a mask for evil designs; his politeness, a cloak for covert wickedness. Pet disliked him, and took no pains to conceal it. And Pet had read his character aright; he had been a young man of fortune-he was a ruined debauchee, reduced to this by his ex- cesses. At first he had looked upon his scholar as a pest and plague; but as she grew up, his feelings changed. Love and ambition began to enter his heart. What, he thought, if he could win this peerless beauty, this wealthy heiress, to be his wife. Iis fallen fortunes would be re- trieved, and his pride and passion gratified by possessing her. Concealing his schemes, he  wound himself round the heart of the judge, until he became his bosom-friend and confidant. He knew Pet disliked him, but he thought this was because she looked upon him as a cross master; if she could be taught to regard him as a lover, it would be very different. Therefore, as months passed, he -became all kindness, ten- derness, and affability-the most devoted slave and admirer Miss Lawless had. "When Satan turns saint there's room for suspicion!" said Pet, looking at him with a cool, critical eye; "You're up to something you shouldn't be, my good youth. I'll keep my eye on you, Mr. Rozzel Garnet." But though Pet kept her " eye on him" as she threatened, no clue to the change could she dis- cover; for as a lover she had never dreamed of him 'in her wildest moments. Until one day, bursting into the library where he sat, with an open letter in her hand, her cheeks flushed to a deeper crimson than usual, her dancing curls all irradiate, her brilliant eyes flashing back the sunshine, her whole face sparkling with delight, he looked up from the book he was reading, and asked: "You seem in unusually good spirits to-day, Miss Lawless-may I ask the cause?" i "Yes; I've got a letter from Ray, and he's coming home in a month or so! Tra, la, la, la,. la, la, la." And Pet went waltzing round the room. A cloud settled for a moment on the bland face of the gentleman, and his small eyes shot a sharp, jealous gleam at the bewildering figure floating dimly over the carpet. It vanished, however, as quickly as it came, as he said, in a   tone of assumed carelessness: "^Ah I And who is Ray, Miss Petronilla?" "Why, you know well enough," said Pet, im- patiently. "Ray Germaine-you saw him when he was here last." "Bless me I Yes, I had forgotten; but you remember that was three yearsi ago, Miss Law- less, so I may be pardoned for iot recollecting him. If I took as much interest in him as you seem to do, my memory would doubtless be better."          i His tones were low, bland, and oily, but his gleaming eyes were like two drawn stilettos. "I expect you would," said Pet. "I have a faint idea that I would have some trouble-if not more-in forgetting Ray Gerinaine. Don't believe he would approve of my doing so at all, either." "I did not think Miss Lawless cared for the approval or disapproval of any ohe in the world," insinuated the gentleman, with one of his bland smiles and needlelike glances.  "We'll see what thought done t That proves Mr. Garnet," said the elf, mockingly, "how careful the general run of mankind should be in trusting their thoughts, since even a gentle-. man so near perfection as you iare can be de- ceived."  "Then you do care for the approval of this fellow, Germaine," said the tutor, trying to hide a dark scowl.        I "This fellow, Germaine? Well, there's a nice way for a young lady's tutor to talk of her friends. I'd prefer'to hear hii called Mister Germaine, sir, if its all the sanae to you," said Pet, drawing herself up.  "Oh, very well!" said Garnet, with a curling lip; " only as he is a pauper, educated by the bounty of your uncle-" But his speech was cut short by Pet's spring- ing suddenly round, with blazing eyes, passion- darkened face, and fiercely and passionately bursting out with:  "It is false! It is a foul slander I Ray Ger- maine is no pauper; and if you ever dare to say such a thing again, I shall lave you turned out of the house! Take care how you talk, Mr. Bozzel: Garnet! It's treading! on dangerous ,ground to slight my friends before me!" Mr. Garnet saw that he had made a false move, and that it was dangerous work handling this fiery little grenade, so he banished all traces of his recent scowl from his faed, and his tones  were of honeyed sweetness whei he spoke again.  "Ten thousand pardons, Miss Lawless, for my offense. Believe me, I had not the remotest  intention of slighting your excellent friend, Mr. Germaine. You and he were very intimate, I presume?"  -"Thick as pickpockets," said Pet, forgetting her momentary anger. "Heighol I wish he was here; he was the only masculine I ever knew, who wasn't as stupid as an owl."   "That's a very flattering speech, Miss Law- less," said Garnet, biting his ip, " and a very sweeping assertion. Are there no exceptions but him?" "Notthat I've ever met. I dare say there may be one or two in the world; but I haven't come across them." There was a moment's pause, during which Garnet sat gnawing his nether lip, and Pet flit- ted round the room, humming an opera air. He watched her, covertly, and then, seeing her about to leave, he started impulsively up, exclaiming: "One moment, Miss Pet-I have something to say to you." "Well, fire away," said Pet, composedly, turning round, and standing with her .back to the door. But for once in his life, his customary assur- ance seemed to have failed him. There was something in the bold, fearless open gaze of those brilliant black eyes that daunted him, brazen as he was. A slight crimson flushed to his face, and his eyes for an instant fell. "Now, what in the name of Diana and all her nymphs is coming?" mentally exclaimed Pet, as she watched in surprise his embarass- ment. "The cool, self-possessed, dignified Mr. Rozzel Garnet blushing like a boiled lobster be- fore poor little Pet Lawless I Snakes and ar- pints, and varmints generally, the world's com- ing to an end-that's certain 1" Then aloud: "Mr. Garnet, I desired you to fire away, which translated from the original Greek, means, go ahead, and say whatever you want to. No need to be bashful about it, seeing it's only me." The flush on Mr. Garnet's cheek deepened, as he said: "Perhaps, Miss Petronilla, what I am about to say may be unexpected, but it can hardly take you by surprise. The change in my man- ner toward you for the last few months must have prepared you for it." He stopped short, and began walking up and down. Pet stuck both hands in her apron- pockets, and stook waiting, " like Patience on a monument," for what was to come next. "It's no gunpowder-plot, or hanging matter, now, is it?'" she began. "For though I wouldn't mind setting the Chesapeake on fire, or blowing up the Alleghanies, I've animmense respect for the laws of my'country, Mr. Garnet, and would not like to undermine the Constitution, or any thing of that sort. Any common matter, though, from riding a steeple-chase to fighting a duel, and I'm yours to command." "Miss Lawless, may I beg of you to be seri- ous for a few moments-this is no jesting mat- ter," said the gentleman, looking annoyed. "Well, my goodness! ain't I serious? I'll leave it to the company, generally, if I'm not as solemn as a hearse. If you'd only condescend to look at me, instead of watching the flowers     in the Jarpet, you would see my face is half a yard loig." "Thea, Miss Lawless, to come to the matter at once-for I know you do not like long pref- aces-I love you, I Worship you, Petronilla! Petronilas, dearer than life may I hope one day to possess this dear hand?" Now, [if our Pet had been sentimental, she would have blushed becomingly, burst into tears, or covered her face with her hands, maybe; but Pet wasn't a bit sentimental, and so, arch- ing her eyebrows, and opening her eyes till they were the size of two saucers, she gave utterance to her- complete amazement in a long, shrill whistle. Garnet approached her, and would have taken her hanc, only as they were still stuck in her apron-po Ckets, she didn't appear to have such a 'thing about her. Accordingly, therefore, he attempted to do the next best thing, that is, put his alms around her waist; but Pet very coolly edged away, saying; "Hands off, Mr. Garnet, until better acquaint- ed. I d n't believe in having coat-sleeves round my wais-as a general thing. .Just say that over ag'inwill you; it was mighty interest- ing!" And Pet flung herself into an arm-chair, and put her feet up on an ottoman with a great dis- play of relessness and ankles, and stared Mr. Garnet chmposedly in the face. "Crue girl! You know your power, and thus you use it. O Petronilla! my beautiful one! have I nothing left to hope for?" "ThatIs a question I can't take it upon my- self to answer," said Pet. ." There's your next quarter's salary, though, ycU can hope for that." "Is that meant as a taunt? O Petronilla! you littld know how deeply, how devotedly I ,love youal I would give my life to make you happy I " - '. ThBany, Mr. Garnet-shows a highly Chris-- tian spirit in you ; b it at the same time, I guess  I won't nind it. As to your loving me, I have not the slightest doubt about it. I'm such an angel in shemale form that I don't see how people can help loving me, any more than they can help the toothache. So you needn't go tell- ing me oyer again you love me; because you've said it two or three times' already; and the most- interesting things get tiresome, you know, when repeated too often." "Capricious, beautiful fairy how shall I win you to seriousness. Fairest Petronilla, I would serve for this little hand even as Jacob served for Rachel " "Mr. Garnet, it's real polite of you tosay so, but you'll excuse me for saying I'd a good deal rather you woUldn't. You've been here six years noiw, and if I thought -I as to undergo six more like lithem, I'd take the first bar of ft-soap I could i ed, and put an immediate end to my melancholy existence." I    "Mocking still! O beautiful Petronilla!.hor shall I reach this willful heart?" ' "There's no heart there, Mr. Garnet, it took a trip to the fast city of Gotham, three years ago, and hasn't come back since." "With Raymond Germaine?" he said, with a sharp flash of his eyes. "Ex-actly; you've struck the right thing in the middle-hit the nail straight on the head- jumped, with your accustomed sagacity, at my exac t meaning. After all, you're not half so stupid as you look, Mr. Garnet." "Miss Lawless," he broke out, angrily, " this levity is as unbecoming as it is unnecessary. I have asked you a question, which, as a lady, you are bound to answer." "Mr. Garnet, look here," said Pet; "did papa hire you to knock reading, writing, and spelling into me, or to make love?" "Miss Lawless!" "Perhaps, though," said Pet, in a musing tone, " it's customary with tutors, when wind- ing up a young lady's education, to put her through a severe course of love-making, that she may know to act and speak properly when occasion requires. ,Mr. Garnet, excuse me, I 'never thought of it before; I see it all now. Just begin at the beginning again, if it's not too much trouble, and you'll see how beautifully I'll go through with it." He started up, passionately, and bit his lip till it bled. "Once for all, Miss Lawless," he exclaimed, stifling his impotent rage, and striding fiercely up to her-" once for all, I demand an answer  I love you-will you be my wife?"  "Well, upon my word, Mr. - Rozzel Garnet," said Pet, -confusedly, "you have the mildest and pleasantest way of your own 'I ever wit- nessed. Lere you come stamping up to me as if about to knock me down, and savagely tell me you love me! Love away, can't you, but don't get in a rage about it! I'm sureyou're perfect- ly welcome to love me till you're black in the face, ifyou'll only take things easy."  "Miss Lawless, forgive me; .I'm half mad, and scarce knew what I said." "I forgive you," said Pet, stretching out' her hands, as if about to warm them; "go, sin no more. I thought you were a little light in the head, myself; but then it didn't surprise me, as it's about the full of the moon, I think." ' Miss Lawless, I did think you were too much--of a lady to despise and scoff at true af- fection, thus. If I have the misfortune to be poor, that does not make me the less sensitive to insult," "Now, Mr. Garnet, look here," said Pet, rising; "I'm getting tired of this scene, and may as well bring it to an end at once. Your love I fully understand; you have sev. eral reasons for loving me-several thousands, in fact, but we won't speak of them. As to in.   suiting you, I flatly deny it; and if you think I have done so, just refer me tof friend, and I'll fight a duel about it, to-morr w. Scoffing at true affection is another thing I'm not in the habit of'doing, neither in despiipg people for being poor; you know both these things as well as I do. But, Mr. Garnet, I wouldn't marry you if you were the last man in the world, and I was to go to my grave a forlorn, hatchet-faced old maid for refusing you. If it's any consolation to you to know it, I wouldn't marry you to save your neek from the hang- man-your. soul from you know who-or your goods and chattels, personal, from being turned, neck and crop, into the street. Now, there!" His face blanched with rage his eyes gleamed with a serpent-like light; his thin lips quivered, and for a moment he stood glaring upon her as if he could have torn her limb from limb. But there was a dangerous light in her eye, too, as she stood drawn up to her full height, with red- dening cheeks, ana defiant, steady gaze, staring him still straight in the face. So they stood for an instant, and then the sense of the ludi- 'crous overcame all else in Pet's mind, and she burst into a clear, merry peal 'of laughter." "Well, upon my word, Mr. Garnet, if this is  not as good as a farce; here we are, staring at  each other, as if for a wager, and looking as savage as a couple of uncivilized tigers. I dare say, it would be a very nice way to pass time I on an ordinary occasion; but as it's drawing  near dinner-time, and I have a powerful appe- 1 tite of my own, you'll excuse me for bidding a you a heart-rending adieu, and tearing myself  away. Ifyou have anything more to say, I'll  come back, after dinner, and stand it like a t martyr."                  n "Not so fast, Miss Petronilla Lawless!" said Garnet, grasping her by the arm, his sallow  face fairly livid with rage; "since it has been I your good pleasure to laugh me' to scorn, and ' mock at the affection I have offered, just hear o me. I swear to you, the day shall come when r you will rue this! There is but a step between t love and hatred, and that step I have taken. a Remember, you have made. me your deadliest tl enemy, and I am an enemy not to be scorned!  Girl, beware!"              3 "Well, now, I declare," said Pet, "if this is  not as good as a play and moral. I'm afraid o you're only plagiarising, though, Mr. Garnet, b for that melo-dramatic 'girl, beware sounds th very like something I read in the Pink Bandit us of the Cranberry Cove.' Confess, now, you've so been reading it-haven't you?-and that's an ex- G theft from it; and, at the same time, you'll oblige me by letting go my arm, It-s not a& made of cast iron, though you seem to think it "Laugh, girl!" he said, hoarsely, "but the day will come when you shall sue to me, and sa sue in vain, even as I have done to-day. Then ge   I you will know what it is to despise Rozzel Gar- "net." t  "Why, you horrid old fright!" exclaimed e Pet, with flushing eyes, I sue to you, indeed I I r guess not, my good teacher! How dare you ,s threaten me, sir, your master's daughter'! Upon tmy word and honor, Mr. Rozzel Garnet, I have e the best mind ever was to have you horse- I, whipped out of the house by my servants. A f pretty chivalrous gentleman you are, to stand t up there and talk to a lady like this I I declare - to goodness! if I hadn't the temper of an angel, r I wouldn't stand it!"  , , Still he held her, glaring in her face with his threatening eyes, and hal-choked with passion. !"Let me go," said Pet, jerking herself first one way, and then another, to free herself from his tenacious grasp. ", I vow I'll go and tell papa every blessed word of this, and if you stay an- other night under the same roof with me, my name's not Petronilla. Take your claw from my arm, will you? and let me go!" Pet jerked an'd pulled in vain; Mr. Garnet held her fast, and smiled a grim, sardonic smile at her futile efforts. "Spit and snarl, my little kitten," he said, mockingly; " see what a sparrow you are in my grasp. Go you shall not, till it is, my good pleasure to release you!" With a sharp, passionate cry of rage, Petro- nilla darted down like lightning, and sunk her sharp, white teeth into his hand. The red blood spurted from a little circlet of wounds, and, with an oath of pain and fury, he sprang back from the little wild-cat. No sooner was his hold released, than Pet darted like a flash through the door, turned the key in the look, and held him captive. "Aha  Mr. Garnet!" she cried, exultingly; little kittens can bite as well as snarl, you see. You caught a tartar that time-didn't you? You're a model gentleman; you're the saint that ought to be canonized on the spot; you're the refined scholar--ain't you? I'llleave you, now, to discover the, charms of solitude, while I go and tell papa the lesson I have taught you this morning. A little fasting and solitary im- prisonment won't hurt your blood in the least. Bon jour, Seigneur Don Monsieur Moustache Whiskerando! May your guardian-angel watch over you till I come back, and keep you from bursting a blood-vessel in your rage. If any- thing should happen to so precious an individ- ual, society might as well shut up shop ct once. so the gods have a care of you, Mr. Rozzel Garnet!"And off danced Pet. In the dining-room she found her father awaiting her.  "Where is Mr. Garnet?" le asked as, she entered. "Mr. Garnet will not be down to dimner,"  said Pet, inwardly determining to keep -that gentleman as long imprisoned as she could.     The iudge, without troubling himself to in- quire further, took his seat, and proceeding to to administer condign punishment to the good things spread before 'him, assisted by Pet, whose appetite was by no means impaired by the ple sant scene she had just passed through, and whose stony conscience was not in the least troubled with remorse for having locked a youn gentleman up without his dinner. About ten hours after, the judge started to leave the room, and Peotguessing where he was going, called upon him: "Paa!"' "Well," said the judge, pausing, and turning round, t               , "Wh*ere are you going?" "To ithe libiary, Miss Lawless," said the judge, vith dignity. "Well, look here, papa, there's a prisoner of war in there." "What, Miss Lawless?" said the judge, knit- ting his brows in perplexity. "A prisoner I have take'n-captivated-lock- ed up! In other words; the pupil has turned teacher and locked her master up, as mothers do refractor:y children, to bring him to his senses." "Misf Lawless," said the judge, in his most stately -janner; "I have no time to listen to' your nonsense. If you have anything to say- saty it. If not, hold your tongue, and learn to be respectful when you address your father." "Well, I never!" ejaculated Pet. "No mat- ter how seriously, sensibly, or solemnly I talk, people say I'm talking nonsense. But that's just mv: fate; everything /awful and horrid is destined to happen to me ; and if I say a word against At, I'ni told I'm impudent and ungrate- ful, and dear knows what. Now, I told you I have ,lodkecd myteacher up, and you tell me you have no time to listen to my nonsense. I guess Mr. Ga net finds it an unpleasant truth, any way " "Petlonilla! what do you mean?" said her father, tleginning to think there might be methl- od inthis madness. "Why, that I've locked Mr. Garnet up in the library for not behaving himself," said Pet, promptly. "Locked him up!" "Yes, sir; and served him right, too, the hateful old ghoul!"  "Locked your teacher up?" "Yes, sir; teachers require looking up as well as pupils." "Miss Lawless, it's not possible that you have been guilty of such an outrageous act!" said the judge, wth an awful frown. "Yes, it is possible," said Pet; "and he de- serves tvice as much for what he did. Oh, wouldn't I like to be:a man for one blessed half hour, thait I could horsewhip him within an inch of his life!"   "Good Heavens! what a.-viiitation this mad girl is! What hlas Mr. Garnet done, you dread- ful girl?" "Dreadful girl!" burst out Pet, indignantly; "there's the way I'm abused for taking my own part. Your daughter's, teacher 'has been mak- ing all sorts of love to me all the whole blessed morning!" and thereupon Pet commenced with a "full, true, and authentic" account of her morn, ing interview in the library. As the judge listened, the scowl on his brow grew blacker and'blacker till his face was like' the double-refined essence of a thunderbolt. But when Pet mentioned his threats and indig-  nity, in refusing to free her, his rage burst all bounds, and his wrath was a sight to see. "The villain! the scoundrel'! the blackleg! the low-bred hound! to' dare' to talk to my daughter in such a way! I vow to Heaven I 'have a good mind to b'eak every bone in his body! To insult my daughter under her fa- ther's roof, and threaten her like this! 'Petronil- la, where is the key? I'll kick the impertinent puppy out of the house." "The key's in the door," said Pet. "I ex- pect he's' in a sweet frame of mind by this time." Up stairs, in a highly choleric' tate, marched the judge, and turning the key in the library- door, he confronted Mr. Garnet, who was strid- ing up and down the room in a way not partic- ularly beneficial to the carpet, with flashing eyes, scowling brQws, and an awful expression of countenance generally, and began, in a tone of withering sarcasm; "So, Mr. Garnet, you have done my daugh. ter the honor to propose for her hand this morning, and when that digit was refused you, you caught her, and had the impudence to in- sult her in her father's house: Oh! you're a model teacher of youth, Mr. Garnet! You're an exemplary young man to be trusted with the education of a young female. Come, sir, out ol my house, and if ever I catch sight of you again, I'll cane you, while I'm able to stand. Ofl with you this instant." And the judge, who was as strong as half-a-dozen broken-down roues like Garnet, caught him by the collar and unceremoniously dragged him down stairs. In vain the quondam teacher strove to free himself, and make his voice heard; not a word would the judge listen to; but upon reaching the hall 'door, landed him by a well-applied kick-on the broad of his back, and then went in, slamming the door in his face. Crest-fallen and linortified, Mr. Garnet picked himself up, and glancing hurriedly around, be- held Petronilla standing langhingly watching. him at the window. A very fiend seemed to leap into his eyes then, and shaking his fist fiercely at her, he strode off, breathing words of vengeance, not " loud, but deep."   CHAPTIER XXV. aMR. TOOSYEGS IN DISTRESS. ', Ah, me! for aught that I could ever read, Could ever bear by tale or history, The course of true love never did run smooth." --Shakespeare. "Admiral Havenful, it's kind of you to ask, but I ain't well at all; I'm very much obliged to you," said Mir Toosypegs, in a deeply deject- ed voice, as he walked into the parlor of the White Squall and took his seat without ever raising his eyes from the floor. "Stand from under!" growled the admiral, in a tone like a bear with the bronchitis, as he gave his glazed hat a slap down on his head, and looked in a bewildered sort of way at the melancholy face of Mr. 0. C. Toosypegs. "Admiral Havenful, it's my intention to stand from under as much as possible," said Mr. Too- sypegs, mournfully; "but, at the saime time, I'm just as miserable as ever I can be, thank you. I don't see what I was born for at all, either. I dare say they meant well about it: but at the same time, I don't see what I was born for," said Mr. Toosypegs, with increased mourn- fulness. The 'admiral laid both hands on his knees, and leaning ovcr, looked solemnly into Mr. Toosy- pegs' face. Reading no expression whatever in that "Book of Beauty" but the mildest sort of despair, he drew himself up again, and grunted out an adjuration to " heave ahead." "Admiral Havenful, would you oblige me by not saying that again P?" said Mr. Toosypegs, giving a sudden start, and keeping his Ifand to his stomach with a grimace of intensest disgust. "You mean real well, I know; but it recalls un- pleasant recollections that I wish'buried in ob- livion.' Ugh!" said Mr. Toosypegs, with a con- vulsive shudder. The admiral looked appealingly at the great s painting oh the mantel; but as that offered no suggestion, he took off his hat, gave his wig a I vigorous scratching, a's if to extract a few ideas by the roots, and then clapping it on again, g faced around, and With renewed vigor began the at tack. "Now, Mr. Toosypegs, I'm considerable out of my latitude, and if youll just keep her round a a point or so,I'll be able to see my way clearer, o au1d discover in which corner the wind sits. r What's the trouble, young man "       it "The trouble, Admiral Hivenful, is such that no amount of words can ever express it. 'No, w Admiral Havenful!" exclaimed the unhappy Mr. th Toosypegs, ", all the words in all the dictionaries, w not to mention the spelling-books, that ever was to printed couldn't begin to tell you the way:I to feel. It worries me so, and preys on my mind at such a rate that my appetite ain't no eircum- in stance to what It used to be. My Sunday swal- . low-tails (the one with the brass buttons, Admi-' fui ral HavenfuD, that used to just barely meet on ab   me, goes clean around me twice, now. I don't expect to live long at this rate, but I guess it's pleasantest laying in the graveyard than living' in this vale of tears," added Mr. Toosy3pegs with a melancholy snuffle. Once again the perplexed admiral looked , helplessly at the picture ; but that work of art d maintained a strict neutrality, and gave him t- not the slightest assistance. Then lie glanced e at Mr, Toosypegs, but still nothing was to be 'r read in those pallid, freckled features, but the mildest sort of anguish. The admiral was be- I, ginning to lose patience. e   "Belay there! belay!" lie roared, bringing h, is fist down with a tremendous thud on his un- offending knee. "Come to the point at once, Orlando Toosypegs! What the dickens is the i matter?" "Admiral Havenful, don't swear!" exclaimed , Mr. Toosypegs, looking deeply scandalized. k"I dare say you mean well; but profane sivear- ing isn't so edifying as it might be. I've a lit- tile tract at home that tells about a boy that told another boy to 'go to blazes ' and three years after le fell out of a fourth-story window and broke two of his legs, and some of his arms. That shows the way profane swearing is pun- ished. I'll bring you over the book some day, Admiral Havenful, if you like; it's a very interesting story to read about."  'The admiral fell back with a groan. "I' haven't read anything lately but the Lamentations of Jeremiah,' " said Mr. Toosy- pegs, resuming his former objections; "it's very soothing to the feelings, though I can't lay it to heart 'so mu'ch as I would like to, on ac- count of Aunt Priscilla scolding all the time. She means real Well, I know, but it ain't so pleasant to listen to as'some things I've heard. Ilaidawake all last night crying, but it don't seem to do me iiuch good." andaMr, Toosypegs wiped his eyes with his handkerchief . The admiral said nothing; he had evidently given up the point in despair. "I wouldn't mention this to anybody but oou, Admiral HaVenful," said Mr. Toosypegs  a'beuse my feelings are so dreadfully faer-' ateda that it's a' great affliction to me to speak of it. I know you won't tell anybody that I've revealed it, because I would feel real bad about it if you did." "Orlhndo Toosypegs, just stand by a mnnute, will vou?" said the admiral, in the tone of a pa- tient but persecuted saint. "Now, hold on-. what have you revealed to me? what have you told me?. 'lere's two questions I'd feel obliged to' anybody to answer." "Why, my goodness i" said Mr. Toosypegs, in much Surprise, "haven't I told you?' Why' I thought I had. Well, then, Admiral Hlaven' t'l,u I've Went and fell in love, and that's all about it."     "Mairtopsail haul 1" roared the admiral, im- measur bly relieved; "who'd ever have thought it! WIo is she, Orlando?" said the admiral, lowering his voice to a husky whisper. "Yor niece, Miss Pet Lawless," said Mr. Toosyp gs, bluhing deeply. This announcement took the admiral so much by surprise that he could only give vent to it by another appealing glance at the picture, and a stifled growl of"Splice the main-brace!" "Admiral Havenful, it's my intention to splice the maia-brace as miuch as possible. I'm very much obliged to you," said Mr. Toosypegs, gratefully, " but, at the same time, I'm afraid it won't do me the least good. I know very well she don't care anything about me, and will go and marry somebody else some day. By gra- cious!" exclaimed Mr. Toosypegs, with the energy of desperation, *"I've a good mind to go and do tomething to myself, whenever I think of it. Why, it's enough to make a fellow go and heave himself away into an untimely grave -so it $s." "Doi't, Orlando, don't," said the admiral, in a tone of grave rebuke; "it's not proper to talk so. When you come to overhaul your con- science, by-and-by, you'll be sorry for such rash thrats. Now, look here-I'm going to talk to you for your own good. 'Does Pet know you've gone and splashed your affections on to "Good gracious, no!" ejaculated Mr. Toosyv pegs, in much alarm; "I wouldn't tell her for anything-no, not for any amount of money youcould give me for doing it, Admiral Haven- ful. Ohl, my goodnessa te ideal Why, sheo would lugh at me, Admiral Havenful." "Avat there, messmate I avast!" growled the admiral, administering a thump to his glazed hat. "Zow, look here. When a young, man goes and falls into love with a young woman, what does he do? or, what do they do?" "'I'm sure I don't know, Admiral Havenful," said Mr I Toosypegs, looking dejectedly at the carpet; j"I never was in love before, you know, and its just the queerest feeling ever was. I never experienced anything like it before.' It's not liko' the colic, or the toothache, or a cramp, or anything: you feel-well, I don't know as can describe It; 'but you kind of feel all over. And whenever I meet Miss Pet' sud- denly andhshe turns them two great, black eyes of lier's a right on to me-my gracious! Admi- ral Havqnful, the state it sets me into! Why, I actually feel as if I'd like to crawl out of the toes of iy boots, or have the carpet open and swallow ue up." And Mr. Toosypegs, carried away by the ex- citing recollection, got up and paced up and down two or three times, and then dropped back intp his seat and 'began wiping' his heateo visage with the faming bandanna so often spo-' ken' of. I   "Belay! belay!" said the admiral, impatient- ly; " vou're steering in the wrong direction alto- gether, Orlando. Now, look here; I asked you, ' when a young man goes and falls in love with a young woman, what does he do?' and .says you 'I don't know, Admiral Havenful.' Well, now, look here; I'll tell you. When a young man goes and falls in love with a young woman, what does he do? Why, Orlando Toosypegs, he goes and marries her I That's what he does!" And hereupon the admiral administered another vigorous slap to his 'glazed hat, that very nearly stove in the crown of that' ill-used head-piece; and leaning back in his chair, look- ed with excusable triumph and exultation at Mr. Toosypegs. That young gentleman gave a sudden start, such as people are in the habit of giving when they sit on a tin-tack turned up, and got very red, but did not reply.' "Now, look here, Orlando Toosypegs," reit- erated the admiral, bringing the fore-finger of his right hand impressively down on' the palm of hisleft, "they goes and gets married. That's what they does." Mr. Toosypegs gave another start, which could only be justified by the idea of another upturn- ed tin tack, and Ijshed deeper than ever, but still replied never a word. "They goes and gets married. That there's what they does," repeated the admiral, folding his arms and leaning serenely back, like a mata who has settled the matter forever. "And now, Orlando Toosypegs, in the words of scrip- ture "-here the admiral got up and took off his glazed hat--" ' go thou, and do likewise.' " And then clapping his hat on again, with a triumphant slap, he sat down and looked Mr. Toosypegs straight and unwinkingly in the face. "Admiral Havenful, I'm very much obliged to you, Pm sure," said the "lovyer," in a sub- dued tone; "but-but ]maybe she wouldn't have me. She might, just as likely as not, say "No,' Admiral Havenful." This was a view of the ease the admiral had never once taken, and it took him so complete- ly ",aback," to use his own phrase, that he could only cast another appealing glance at the pic- ture and growl a low, bewildered adjuration to society in general, to "Stand from under!" "I shouldn't be a bit surprised if she said No,' Admiral Havenful; not one bit, sir," said Mr. Toosypege, mournfully; "its my luck, al- ways, to have the most dreadful "things happen to mel! 'I declare it's enough to make a fellow mad enough to go and do something to himself --it aotutly is." "Don't now, Orlando, don't now," said the admiral, severely; "it isn't proper, you know, and you really shouldn't. There's a proverb I'm trying to think of," said the admiral, knit- ting his brow in intense perplexity; "you know   the Book of Proverbs, Orlando, don't you. Hold on, now, till :I see: ,Fain"'-.oo-yes, 'Fain heart-fain heart never won a fair lady.'"Again the old sailor reverentially removed his hat. "That's it, Orlando; I fain heart never won fair lad ' N    , look here; you go straight along and ask Firefly if she's willing to cruise under your flag through life, and if shedlays her hand in yours, and says ' I'm there, messmate!' by St. Paul Jones! we'll have such a wedding as never was seen in old Maryland, since Calvert came over. Hoorah " yelled the admiral, wav- ing his hat over his head in an unexpected out-  burst of delight, that quite startled Mr. Toosy- pegs. "Admiral Havenful, I'll do it! I will, by granny!" exclaimed Mr. Toosypegs, jumping up in the excitement of the moment. "I'll go right straight over to Heath Hill and ask her. Why, she actually might say ' Yes,' after all. Oh my gracious! i f she does, won't it be nice? What will Aunt Prisciller say? Admiral Haven- ful, it was real kind of you to advise me so, and tell me what to do; and I'm ever so much obliged to you-I really am," said Mr. Toosy- pegs, bustling around, and putting 'on his hat and turning togo. "Keep her to the wind's eye!" roared the ad- I miral, in a burst of enthusiasm, as he brought one tremendous sledge-hammer fist down with an awful thump on the table. "Admiral Iavenful, it is my intention to 1 keep her to the wind's eye as much as possible," t said Mr. Toosypeg3, who comprehended the i sentence abont as much as he would a Chinese g funeral-oration. "GuoJ-bye, now; I'll come right back when it's over, and tell you what she 'said." And, like the frog immortalized in Mother I Goose, who "   would a wooing go," Mr. O. C. Toosypegs "set off with his olera-hat," on that fl expedition so terrifying to bashful young men- e that of going to "pop the question."'  CHAPTER XXVI. PET "RESPECTFULLY DECLINES. "Doubt the stars are fire-    W Doubt the sun doth move--   S Doubt truth to be a liar, , But never doubt I love."-HAMLET. In all the ardor of his momentary excitement, le Mr. Toosypegs got astride of a serious-lookin Atl pony, a family-relation of the- adfiras Wo..' ' ite nag, Ringhpno, ahfst,'ei di ki   :    ni ti W    t j fe eent lf'-4' We&   tot t'l? kthlearI(fdinr6heg Ofjj 'the o' roW q 'OD rideir youti *6o1!hk:e-W6    d'-A se  yw  /fca i I3tMr Tt lar ai: iia ei%eisata'ojerasJ P. 1.uft   old 'ing of his loooks just then, but of a far more an important subjiet--trying to screw his courage in to the sticking-point. The farther he went, thle at. faster his new-found courage began oozing away. air As the White Squall receded, so did his daring ng determination; and as the full extent of the !er mission he was on burst upon him, a cold per-' nd spiratian slowly burst out on his face, despite by the'warmtho0f the day. as  "Good grftious!" it's going to be awful; I ert know it is!" exclaimed Mr. Toosypegs, wiping ?v- his face with the cuff of his coat. "And how it- I'm ever going to get through with it, I'm sure y- I don't kntow. I wish to goodness I had never said nothing about it If I only knew any young ,y man that's in the habit of proposing, he could ig tell me how they do it, and then I wouldn't go mind. Butnow-by granny! I've a good mind r. to turn, and go right back to Dismal Hollow. 1. But, then, the admiral-what will he say? Well, ?I don't care what he says. How would he like i- to go and pop the question himself, I wonder P d By gracious! I will go back. It's no use think- h ing about it; for I'd sooner be chawed alive by I rattlesnakes,' and then kicked to death by grass- t, hoppers, than go and tell Miss Pet the way I ,feel. I couldn't tell her the way I feel; it's the most peculiar sensation ever w s. And themn black eyes of hers i  Land of hope and t blessed promise! the way they do go right throu h a ellow's vest-pattern! How in' the woreld so many men can manage to get married is more than I know; for I'd sooner march up to the muzzle of a pistol while old Nick held the trig- ger, than go and do it  Whoa, Charlie  Turn round. I'm going home to Dismal Hollow!" Whir, whir, whir! came something, with lightning-like rapidity, over the soft heath. Mr. Toosypegs turned round; and there came Miss Pet herself, flying along like the wind, on her fleet Arabian, her cheelks crimson, her splendid eyes blazing, her red lips smiling; her short, jetty curls flying in the wind she herself raised; her long, raven-black plumejust touching her searlet cheeks; the'red rings of flame flashing out in the sunlight from her dazzling eyes and fair. She was bewildering, dazzling, blinding! Mr. Too- sypegs had his breath completely taken away, as his heart had long since been, aqd i!"thit moment fell more deeply, H6Ljabl afi "h. nade,....   ,    r    o "  - tJdW Lery Wjj t v 'Wm' n dsery- touenin  g her hat gamalaBe,'    ti. :' 'x "    1-i'.; :%,  o    -:ef impe*;'  (I:, [:-t. [ .Jin  I JO/     ter? . Not cholera-morbus, or measles, oi' a gal- loping-decline, or anything-is it?" said Pet, in a tone, f deepest anxiety. "The gods forbid anything should happen to you, Orlando, for the sake of pall Judestown girls whose hearts you have broken! You do look sort of blue-a prey to 'green and yellow melancholy,' I shouldn't wonder! Make Miss Priscilla apply a mustard- poultice when you get home-it doesn't matter where-and go to bed with your feet in a tub of hot'waterl. and I'll bet you anything yqu'll be as well as ever, if not considerably better, in the morning', I'm going to take in nursing some of these days, and ought to know!" "Miss, Pet, it's real good of you to advise me, and I'm very much obliged to you," said Mr. Toosypegs, gratefully; but, at the same time, I don't believe mustard-poultices and tubs of hot water would do me the first mite of good. No, Miss Pet, not all the hot water in all the hot spripgs that ever was, could do me the least good," baid Mr. Toosypegs, firmly. "I'm in that state that nothing can do me any good-no, no, nothing!" repeated Mr. Toosypegs, with in- creased ;firmness. "It's all internal, you see, Miss Peq." "Oh! is it?" said Pet, puckering up her mouth as if she were going to whistle. "' You' ought to; take something, then, and drive it out! Hot gin or burnt brandy and cayenne is good --excesSively good-though not so nice to take as somel things I've tasted. Just you take a pint or so of hot burnt brandy  cayenne to- night, before going to bed, and you'll see it will be all Jut in a severe rash early to-morrow morning. I'm advising you for your good, Or- lando ; for I feel like a mother to you-in fact, I feel a motherly interest in all the nice young men in Judestown and the surrounding country generally, for any extent you please, and am al- ways ready to give them no end of good advice, if they 9nly take it." "It's 'real good of you, Miss Pet, I'm sure," said Mr. Toosypegs, wincing, as the very thought of the hot brandy and cayenne brought tears to his eyes, "and I would be real glad to take your advice, and brandy, only what ails me can't be broughti out in a rash. No, Miss Pet, all the brandy from here to Brandywine," said Mr. Toosypegs--with a hazy idea that all ardent spir- its came from that place-" couldn't do it. It's real good of you, though,to recommend it; and I'm very much obliged to you, I'm sure." "Well, really, I'm afraid I'll have to give the case up, though I hate to do it. What's the symptoms, Orlando Y" "Theiwhat, Miss Pet?" /  "Thei symptoms, you know--I don't exactly understand the word myself; and I forgot my dictionary when I was coming away. It means, though, the feelings a something that way-how do you feel as a general thing?"  "Well, I can't say I feel very well," said Mr. i    Toosypegs, mournfully. "t I'm sort of restless, and can't sleep of nights!" "Ah! that's owing to the musquitos!" said Pet. "That ain't dangerous. Go on." "No, Miss Pet, it's not the, musquitos; it's my feelings," said Mr. Toosypegs, with increased mournfulness. "I've lost my appetite!" "Well, I'm sure I don't wonder at that either," again interrupted Pet. "Miss Priscilla half- starves you over there--I know she dees. Just you come over and dine with us two or three times a week, at Heath Hill, and you'll be as- tonished slightly at the way you'll find your appetite again. Oh, I don't despair of you at all!" "Miss Pet," burst out Mr. Tooosypegs, in a sort of desperation, "its very good of you to ask- me, and I'm very much obliged to you; but you don't understand my feelings at all. It's an unfortunate attachment-' "An attachment?" exclaimed Pet. "Whew! that is bad! Why, Orlando, I didn't think you owed anybody anything. When was this attach- ment issued against you 9"  "O0 Miss Pet! can't you understand? My gracious! that ain't the sort of attachment I mean at all. It's not legal-" "Then it's illegal," said Pet, with a profound- ly-shocked expression of countenance. "Why, Mr. Toosypegs, where do you expect to go to! I never expected to have any such confession from your lips. An illegal attachment! Mr. Toosypegs, the community generally look upon you as a highly-exemplary young man, but I feel it my painful duty to announce to them immediately how they have been deceived. An illegal attachment! O my stars and garters! Excuse me, Mr. Toosypegs, but after such a highly improper confession, I must bid you good morning. No young and unsuspecting female like me can be seen with propriety in your company for the future. I am very sorry, Mr. Toosypegs, and I should'never have sus- pected you of such shocking conduct had you not confessed it yourself." And Pet drew her- self up, and put on that severelyimoral expres- sion only seen on the faces of school-mistresses and committee-men when lecturing young ideas on the proper way to shoot. "Good gracious!" exclaimed Mr. Toosypegs, in a distracted tone, nearly driven out of his senses by this harangue. "O land of hope! was a fellow that never done nothing to no' ody ever talked to like this before! By granny! it's enough to make a fellow get as mad as any- thing; so it is! Why, Miss Pet, I haven't done anything improper-- wouldn't, for any price  upoR my word and honor, I wouldn't I've fell in love with-a-with--a young lady, and I don't see where's the harm of it. Its unkind of you, Miss Pet, to speak so, and I don't see what I've ever done to deserve it. You mean real well, I'm sure, but it makes a fellow feel bad to   be talked to this way all the time," said Mr. Toosypegs, with a stifled whimper. "Well, there, don't cry, Orlando," said Pet soothingly, "and I won't say another word. / What young lady have you had the misfortune to fall in love with?" "Miss Pet, excuse me, but H'd rather not tell, if it's all the same," replied Mr. Toosypegs, blushing deeply. "O  fool! tell me, as a friend, you know. Won't ever mention it again, so help me! Do I know her?" "Ye-yes, Miss Pet, slightly." "Hem! It isn't Annie Grove?" "No, Miss Pet-why, she's forty years old, if she's a day," said Mr. Toosypegs, indignantly. "Yes, 1 know-twenty-five, she s;ys ; but she's been that as far back as the oldest inhab- itant can remember. Well, then, Jessie Mas- ters?" "Miss Pet allow me to say I ain't in the hab- it of falling in love with women with wooden legs," said the young gentleman with dignity. "Well, I didn't know; it's cheaper, in shoe- leather, especially. Hem-m-m! Perhaps its Mrs. Jenkins?" "Mrs. Jenkins! a widow! No, Miss Pet, it ain't.: I should think you might know I don't like second-hand women," said Mr. Toosyegs as near being indignant as he ever was in his life. "Well, who the mischief can it be then?9 It must be Huldah Rice."            i "A little stout thing, with-with a hump,  and cross-eyes? Miss Pet, it ain't!" exclaimed Mr. Toosypegs, with tears of vexation in his ] eyes. "Not her, either? then I give up. Who is it,  Orlando?" "Miss Pet, I don't like to tell-you'll laugh e at me," said Mr. Toosypegs, blushing, deeply. , "Laugh! No, I won't; honor bright! I'll t look as grim as a death's-head and cross-bones! D Now then, out with it!" "Miss Pet, it's-it's-"  "Yes-well?" "It's-" "Well?" "It's yQu," fairly shouted Mr., Toosypegs, p driven to desperation by her perseverance. " "Me! O ye gods and goddesses, without h skirts or odicesl  Me! Great Jehosaphlat! w I'll know what it feels like to be unexpectedly struck by a cannon-ball, after this! Me! Wel, at I     never W". Miss Pet, I  knew you would laugh; I knew a it all along, and I told him so this morning," la said&Mr. Toosypegs, with a sniffle; " you mean well, I dare say, but it don't seem kind at all." T "Laugh!" exclaimed Pet; "come, I like w that, and my face as long an an undertaker's! You may take a microscope and look from this ha until the week after next, and then you won't in   [r. discover the ghost of smile on my countenance. Laugh, indeed I I'm above such a weakness, I et, hope," sait Pet, with ineffable contempt. d.  "Then, Miss Pet, perhaps you will have me," ne said Mr. Toosypegs, with sudden hope. "Miss Pet, I can't begin to tell you the way I love ot you; you can't have any idea of it; it goes ;s, right through and through me. I think of you all day, and I dream about you all night. I'm w. in the most dreadful way about you, ever was. )o Miss Pet, I'd do anything you told me to. I'd go and drown myself if you wanted me to, or shoot myself, or take ratsbane, and rather like it than otherwise, if you'll only have me, Miss if Pet-"   "Orlando,'I'm very sorry; but-I can't." Ut  "Miss Pet, you don't mean it; you can't b- mean it, surely. I know I ain't so good-looking $- as some," said Mr. Toosypegs, in a melancholy tone; "but I can get something to take the f- freckles off, and I expect to fattea out a little, aby-and-by, so-" "Now, don't go to any such trouble Ifor me," said Pet, with difficulty keeping from laughing s at his mildly-anguished look. "I don't mind the freckles at all; I rather like them, in fact; t they vary the monotony of the complexion, 't just as oases do in the deserts we read of; and , as for being thin-well, I'm rather on the hatch- s et-pattern myself, you know. But you must quit thinking about me, Orlando, because I'm t only a wild little Tomboy, that everybody gets furious about, and I never intend to get married , at all-that is, unless-well, never mind." I  "  Miss Pet, if you only knew how badly in 3love I am." "Oh, you only think so; you'll forget me in a week." "I'll never forget you, Miss Pet, never-not even if I was to be taken out of this world alto- gether, and sent up to New Jersey. It's awful to think you won't have me-it really is," said Mr. Toosypegs, in great mental distress. "  Well, I'm sorry, Orlando, but I can't help it, you know. Now be a good boy, for my sake, and try to forget me-won't you?" said Pet, coaxingly.           f "I'll try to, Miss Pet, since you wish it," said poor Mr. Toosypegs, with tears in his eyes; "'but it's blamed hard. I wish to gracious I had never been born-I just do I I don't see where is the good of it at all." "Oh, now, Orlando, you musn't feel bad about it, because it won't amount to anything," said Pet, in a consoling tone; "don t let us talk any more about it. Guess what I heard last night over at Judestown."   i "I'm sure I don't know, Miss Pet," said Mr. Toosypegs, giving his eyes and nose a vigorous wiping with his handkerchief.   g "Well, then, that the gang of smugglers who have been for so long a time suspected of hav- ing a, rendezvous around the coast somewhere,     haw ben seen at last. Two or three of them ,were observed putting off in a boat, the other 3nigMt, and going on board a dark, suspicious- Tohing ' schooner, anchored dwn the bay. Thyar4 known to have a hiding-place some- where around here, but the good folks of Judes- town can't discover it, and consequently are in a state of mind at having such desperadoes near them. I'm going to hunt all over the shore far and neal myself, this very day, and see if my eyes are not sharper than those of the Judes- town officials. Oh, I would love, of all things, to, discover their hiding-place; perhaps my smartness wouldn't astonish the natives slight- ly."   "But,; good gracious, Miss Pet! if they get hold of you,"said Mr. Toosypegs, his blood running chill with horror at the very idea; "why, it would be awful." "If trley did," said Pet, "they would find, as other have done, to their cost, before now, that they had caught a Tartar; a snap-dragon; a pepper-pod; an angel in petticoats!  Oh, they'd lave their hands full, in every sense of mhe'word. I'm bound to go on my exploring e peditihn this afternoon, wind and weather per- Unitting, aany way, and see what will be the re- sult. Where are you going, may I ask?" '"To IPismal Hollow, or-no; I've got to go to'the W:hite Squall, first." ,.)u Very well; I won't detain you, then. I'm offt'to Judestown-good-bye; remember me to tole Hrry" And diving her jaunty; plumed hat another tallaht touch, Firefly dashed off, leaving Mr. Toosypegs gazing dejectedly after her until the idst luttier of her dark riding-habit vanished amid the trees; and then he slowly and mourn- fally turhed his solemn-faced nag in the direc- tio/sof tfie White Squall, to tell the admiral the timsatisfabtory result of his proposal. CHAPTER XXVII. 'I ;,  GREEK MEETS GREEK. I *  corn,' quoth she, 'thou coxcomb silly, Qr'   r i).Q after or counsel from a foe. If thou canst force me to it, do.' "-HuDIBRAS. " .r.. . I ad rather chop this hand off at a blow, L d with the other fling it in thy face, : ')/ T in stoop to thee."  -SHAK5SPEAR, [ VPdtrl't 4la rode gayly along to the little bust- "ng "hapf-village-half-city, Judestown, thinking over her late surprising proposal, and scarcely kndwinw whether to laugh at or pity poor Mr, y/'0rylb. As she reached the town these thoiihi]f"were dispelled by the busy scenes fi'lndftfdl Pet found herself fully occupied in nodding to her various friends and aequain- tances m tsh passed. ]lestination was the post-office, a large buildinglwhich served as a store, hotel, and post, (ill 'llohiB^',As she drew rein at the door, the mratl-doalihitfrw up, and Pet lingered where she was,/i/qaimt, in orYer to avoid the crowd. 1 [   The passengers crowded in, and as the coach. door opened, a young gentleman sprang out and assisted a lady, closely vailed, to auight. Neither of them noticed Pet; so they did not: observe her quick start, her sudden flush, and the vivid lighting up 'of her beautiful eyes. These outward and very unwonted signs of emotion on Pet's part passed away as quickly as they came, and in one minume more she was as cool, saucy and composed as ever. '"Is there any one here who will drive us to Old Barrens Cottage?" said the young gentle- man, glancing at the landlord. "Yes, sir; in ten minutes, sir; just step in, sir; my boy's gone off in the gig with a gent, but he'll be back soon. Walk right in this way, sir," replied the obsequious landlord, with a profusion of bows to the well-dressed and dis- tinguished-looking stranger before him. "I would rather not wait," said the gentle- man. "Can you not let me have some other conveyance, and I will drive over myself?" "Very sorry, sir, but' they're all engaged. Just step in, sir, you and your good lady, sir." *Pet fancied she heard a low, sweet laugh from under the thick, brown vail, and the gentleman smiled as he followed the bustling host into the well-sanded parlor. In one moment Pet was off her horse, and consiging him to the care of the hostler, darted in by a side door and rang a peal that presently brought the hostess, a pleasant-faced, fat, little woman, in a tremendous flutter, into tire room. "Laws! Miss Petronilla, is it you? Why, you haven't been to see me this long time. How do you do?" "I'm very well, thank you, Mrs. Gudge; but see here-did you notice that gentleman and lady who have just gone into the parlor ." "That tall, handsome young man, with all them there moustaches?-yes, I seen him, Miss Pet." "Well, do you know who he is?" "No; though it does kinder seem to me as if I'd seen him somewhere before: The lady, his wife, I take it, kept her vail down, and I couldn't see her face. No; I don't know 'em, Miss Pet." "Well, that don't matter; I do. And now, Mrs. Gudge, I want you to help me in a splen- did piece of-of-" "Mischief, Miss Pet," said the woman, slyly. "No, not exactly-^-just fun. I wan't you to bring a suit of your son Bob's clothes up here. I'm going to dress myself in them, and when he comes with the gig let me drive them over. My riding-habit and pony can remain here till I send for them." "Now, Miss Pet-" "Now, Mrs. Gudge, don't bother me! Go, like a dear old soul. I'll give you a kiss if you do."    o "But the judge-" "Oh, the judge won't know anything about it,   unless you tell him. There, be off! I want be dressed before Bob comes. If you don'( i  hurry I'll lose the most splendid joke ever wa'  Hurry now! Put Mr. Gudte up to ito ts e, at won't get out of the bag." i   With a del,ecating. shake of Iter iead and'p turning of ier eyes, the little hostess bustle out, inwardly wortdering what "Miss Pet wou do ttext." Pet, in the meantime, with her wicked bhin eyes scintillating with the prospect of comi fun w'as rapidly divesting herself of her ha and riding-habit. And tite, little ]Mrs. Gudg made her appearance with her son and heir "Sun day-go-to-meeri,s, and stayed to as..s the fairy in. her frolic, and find out whlote handsome owner of the "musstarchers'" wa But Pet was as ecosc as a clar, ard only laugn ed at the landlady's " pumping," wltile site dive desperately into Bob's cants and coat, whichr- except being narrow w'here Pet thought thel ought to be wide, and wide where they ougi to be narrow, fitted her very w'll. Then sin combed her short, dancing, black curls to or side, over her round, boyish forehead, and settin upon then. a jauntt, Scotch cap, stood there bright, saucy, and smiling, as handsome and dashing a lithe fellow as you could see in a Ion summer-day. "Well, laws! you do make a pretty boy, and no mistake, Miss Pet," said the woman, admir ingly; "them  handsome eyes of yours an stakung,..shining curls is jest tire thring! But you  auds-they r. a heap too small and deli- ky-loruking for a boy 's." "Oh  ! well, I'll r'r"b some mud on tlhem when I get out.  Thleyre nt ti'e whitest in the world any way; and1 besides, tlhey' won't look very cls ily at a little eab-bob 's haan'ds."' "Nrw, if you want to be like a boy, you must take lu'ng steps, and stick. your hatds in youru pockets. arid swear. Can you swear, Miss Pet 2" said the woman, seriously. "Well, I itever tried," said Pet, laughing,. "and as I dont't know any ,aths',uff by iteart, I guess  p w on't mind, for fear the effect . woudbe a failure.  "   ........t "Its a pit y you don't," said Mr's. Gudge, 'houghtfully; , all boys almer's swears at tire horses. You must look sassy--but thtat colles natural enought to you; arid you had netter smoke a pipe or ectew some tobacco, osi tite road---witich will you do, Miss Pet?" "Well, really, Mrs. Gudge, I'd rather not do eitlher, if it's all the same to you," said Pet; "htyou mustn't 'keep calling me 'Miss Pet,' you know; my name's Bob, now, Bob Gulge." "So it is. Laws! if it air't funny; but I'm afraid they'll find you out if you horr't do none. of threr things. Can you whistle, miss"-Bob, I mean." For reply, Pet puckered up her rosy mouth, and whistld"alClmiinawytt   ;to made little Mrs. Gudge's eyes snap with de- )n't light. mas. "Here comes Bob!" she cried, as a gig came tire rattl ing into tie yard. "You waithere amint ute andI'll fix thinigs all right." up- Out flew Mrs. Gudge, and called off Bob t@ led some secret corner, and then she showed her old  he  ad in at tire door, and call ed: "Come, now Miss --Bob, and drive round uck to thre front door, while I tell the lady and gen- rat  Petimiteating Bob's, siruffling swagger, went ge ouoh  yard, sprang up on the Irort seat, r's took the reins, and, in masterly style, turned the  horses, and drove around to tite front door. Scarcely had she got there ard struck up H  ail Columbia" in her shrrillest key, than the dark, handsome gentleman withn  thie ,mst ih rSd  scame out wrtir the lady, who was still vail -- ed, followed by tire host and hostess, on whose ry faces rested aMbroad grin. Pet, witi her cap lt pulled over hter eyes, to shade them from the re hot sun, and also to subdue their dar'k, bright re splendor a little, sat whristling away, looking as g cool as a cucumber, if not s    everal degrees cooler. d  The young gentlemen handed tie lady in, gand site tOOk her place on thre back seat. "Now, Minnie, I'm going to sit ihere with the Idr'iver artd have a chat withr him," said tire young marn; ",these cunning little vagrants know ev-. c rything.",  t Tite shrill whistle rose an octave higher -  "Very well," said the youn g lady, in low,  laugitirig tones; "anything to-put an end to ithat p)iercing whistle. I suppose lie cannot talk t    q y ou attd whistle togetter 2" C an'   t I , t  irugh 2" throught th e small urchin, wev .o hreld tire re its "We'll se ti  Mis..s E mirie Germraine," and] higher and highter still rose th e sheri), shrill rnot,.s. "Come,nry lad, stairt," cried tie gentleman1 spritgrng in, "aid if it is not too nuch trouble, might Ii'reqest you to stop wiristhirr g It may be, and no doubnt is, owing to our bad taste, but we ca not appreciate it as it deserves." "Do,'t see no hrarm in whistlin; nobody "niev e ob'eehtsn toan i"u' .o .va nee obet toi," said P, t, iriritatirig to per- fketion the griuff, surly tones of Maser' B "Im f  or music myself, if y ou ain't, and so is tire heoss, who would not'go a step if I didn't whistle; so I'll just keep on, if it's'ill the same to you." And another stave of "Hail Colum- bia" pierced tire air. "How long does it take you to drive to the Barrens 2" "' Will, sometimes longer and ,sometimes' shorter; and then again not so 10ng," said 'the driver, touching the horse daintily with his whip.    ' "Quite enlightened, thank you!  Doyo know the family at old Barrens cottage 2"yo "Titers ain't no family there; there's only'     the old ioman what can't walk or nothin'; and a nigger. Them two don't make one whole memaber of deciety, let alone a family. Was you acqUainted with them, square?" - "3Slightly so," said the gentleman, smiling., 'Wrell, maybe you knew that there cove that went away-young'Mr. Ray?" "I believe I had that honor," replied the young man, with the smile still on his handsome face. "Honor! humph! I reckon you're the only one ever thought it an honor to know him," said the pad, grimly. "He always was a vaga- bones, and ended as all vagabones must, at last." For onb moment the young gentleman glanc- ed at the driver, evidently hesitating whether to pitch him then and there out of the gig or not; but seeing only a little boy with an exceedingly muddy face, he thought better of it, and said: "Well; this is really pleasant to listen to! And how did this vagabones, as you call him', end?"     " "Why,' he was sent away from home, when they couldn't stand him any longer; and the last we heard of him was, that he was in State Prison for life." A low 'peal of laughter from the young lady followed this, in which, after a prolonged stare of astonishment, the gentleman was obliged to join.  I "Wellj for cool, innate impudence, and straightforward bluntness, I'll back you against the world, my good youth," said the young man, while the little driver sat looking as seri- ous as a judge. "And ;the young lady who lived there, what became of her?" "Theie wasn't never no young lady," said the lad; ", there was a little gal with yaller hair, but she went off, too; and, I expect, ran away with soene one-eyed fiddler or other. They was English trash, and no better couldn't have been expected;" said the boy, in strong accents ot contempt.          i Another low laugh from the young lady and ,a prolonged whistle from the gentleman followed this.  ; "Well, I am sorry my friends have turned out so Badly. How about the others now: Judge Lawless and his' family, for instance: Admiral Havenful, Mr. and Miss Toosypegs, and the iest." "They're all hanging together. Mr. Toosy- pegs is going to get married, and take in sewing for a living; and Miss Priscilla goes round making vinegar." "Making what?" "Vindgar," said the iad, gravely.  The grocers gets her to look into barrels of water, when they turns into vinegar 'mediately." "I sliouldn't wonder," said the gentleman, laughing; "but the others -Judge Lawless, Miss Lawless, what of her?"   " Oh, she's all right. Don't expect she'll be Miss Lawless, though, much longer," said the boy. "o No? why? how? what do you mean?" said the young gentlemen, starting so suddenly that the "boy looked up, apparently quite terrified by this unexpected outhurst. ; "See here, square, you'll skeer the hoss if you keep on like this. If you're subjick to 'tacks of this kind you ought for to have told me before we started, and not 'larm the hoss," said the boy, sharply. "Tell me what you mean by that? Speak!" said the young man, vehemently.' "By what? skeering the hoss?" )said the lad. "No, about Miss Lawless, was the impetuous rejoinder. "Oh! Well I have hearn tell she was goin' to be married. Likely as not she is too; got lots of beaux." The young gentleman's face flushed for a moment, and then grew set and stern. "Did you shear who she was to be married to?" said the young lady, leaning over. "No, marm, nobody never can tell what she'll do; likely as not she'll get married to the one nobody expects her to marry. She always was the contrariest young woman always that ever was," said the boy, casting a quick, bright, searching glance from under his long eyelashes, at the handsome, face of the gentleman. And it was a handsome face; the very handsomest the saucy little driver .had ever seen; and it might have been his close proximity to its own- er that sent such quick thrills to the heart of the quondam boy, and set it beating so unnec- essarily fast under the jaunty black coat. The dark, clear complexion; the straight, classic features; the thick, jetty, clustering hair; the high, princely brow; the bold, flashing, falcon, blrck eyes; the thin, curving nostril, that show- ed his high blood; the proud, haughty mouth, shaded by a thick, black moustache; the tall,. slight, elegant form; the high, kingly move- ments-these made up the outward attractions of him by whose side Pet sat. Of course, every reader above the artless age of five knows as well as I do who it is, so there is not the slight- est necessity for announcing his name as Ray- mond Germaine. There was a long silence after this. The young gentleman, with a cold, almost sarcastic look, watched the objects as they passed, and the little boy drove on, whistling as if his life depended on it. Then the young lady leaned over and began a conversation in a low voice with her compan- ion, to which he replied in the same tone. The lady had thrown back her vail, disclosing a face of such rare loveliness that it seemed a down- right shame, not to say sin, to hide it behind that odious brown covering. The driver turned   round to catch a better view of her face, and the young lady met the full splendor of those dazzlin, dlark orbs. The boy instantly turned, and began whistling louder than ever. "What a handsome boy!" said the young girl, in a low tone, yet loud enough for the "boy" in question to hear. "Wyhat splendid eyes! I thought there could be but one such pair of eyes in the world, and those-" Her companion made a slight gesture tlhat arrested the name she would have uttered; and glancing at the boy, said, rather coldly: iYes; he is handsome, if his face was wash- "Now, Ray," said the young lady, laughing, that is altogether too bad. Those radiant eyes are destined to break many'a heart yet." "That they are!" mentally exclaimed the lad. "How fortunate for some of your admirers Ermie, he is not a few years older," said Ray (we may as-well call him so at once, and have done with it). "Those dark, bright, handsome eyes wouldn't have left you the faintest trace of i heart; and then what would poor Ranty have done?" "Pshaw, Ray," said Erminlie, with a most becoming blush; " what nonsense! Oh, look! we are almost home. There is Dismal Hollow, and there-there-   I declare! that's Mr. Too- A sypegs himseij, riding out of the pine-woods. Why, he hasn't changed the least in the world since I saw him last." The little driver gave his cap a pull farther over his face as Ray shouted to Mr. Toosy- 1 pegs.  The next moment, that disconsolate wooer was by the side of the gig, slihaking hands with i Ray and Erminie, and asking a dozen questions ] in a breath.                i "How did you come? When did you come? How did you meet?" breathlessly demanded the astonished and delighted Mr. Toosypegs.   s "  I called for Erminie at her convent. She is p hot going back any more; my visit will proba- l bly be a short one. I hope Miss Toosypegs and b all our friends are well?"   f' "Yes; all well. I am very much obliged b to you. Did you pass through Judestown?" "Of course. How else could we get here?" s1 "And didn't you meet Miss Pet?" "Miss Lawless? No. Was she at Judes- g town " said Emrnninie, eagerly; while Ray found sn something so attractive among the trees that lie  could not possibly remove his eyes from it. "Oh, I should have liked to have seen her so nc much!" "  Yes; she went to Judestown this morning, b and has not got back. My goodness! it is the g greatest wonder you didn't see her. What a p pity she didn't knuw you've come! she would th be here in a flash.",           A "Is she to be married, do you know, Mr. lo   id I Toosypegs?" said Erminie, in a low voice; "we se heard she was." . d,  The little boy glanced from the corner of his eye, and saw a faint red on the dark cheek of ig the tall, handsome, Spanish-looking gentleman ie beside him. id  Mr. Toosypegs turned pale; even his very h freckles grew the color of buttermilk cdrds at the question. it  "Get married I Good gracious! I was just d, saying so. Oh, I knew very well she would go and heave herself away on somebody. Who is - she going to be be married to, Miss Minnie?" 4"I don't know; it was this little boy who 7, told us," said Erminie, glancing toward him. t  "Well, I don't know, neither; only hearn tell," said the lad, shortly. e  "Perhaps it is only a report. When will you come over to the cottage, Mr. Toosypegs?" ,  This evening, Miss Minnie ; and I guess y Aunt Prisciller will come, too. She hasn't had e any new caps or collars since yot went away, e and has ever so many to get made." f  "Very well; I will make them. Good-bye, a until then," said Erminie, smiling, as they drove on. ',  A short time sufficed to bring them to the cottage. The driver was invited in, but declined, and turned to go. "If you see Miss Lawless on your way, will you tell her to hurry here?" said Erminie, as she alighted. "Yes'm; all right'!" said the boy, closing his hand over tihe coin Ray gave him ;!and then touching his cap to Erminie, dashed away. Lucy's delight exceeded all bounds at behold- ing "young mars'r and misses" again ; and then Ray and Erninie, with solme difficulty extricat- ing themselves from her violent caresses, went up-stairs, and entered the room of Ketura. Many and sad were the changes years, and sorrow, and a sort of chronic remorse for her past acts had wrought in her. She sat in a large easy-chair, unable to move any portion of her body but tier head; her hard, dark, grim face, bony, sharp, and hollow, the protruding bones just covered by a wrinkled covering of skin; but the fierce, blazing black eyes were still unchanged.      ,    l Erminie, with the exclamation, *My dearest grandmother!" went over, and throwing her snowy arms around her neck, kissed the dark, withered cheek. The old woman glanced at her, and saw the now beautiful, feminine, but perfect image of Lord Ernest Villiers. The same large, dark, beautiful violet-blue eyes; the same fair, silken, golden hair; the same clear, transparent com- plexion; the same elegant, graceful movements; the very expression of the features complete. All her old hatred revived at the sighl of the lovely, high-born girl. With a quilck fierce     gesture,; she pushed her aside, and strove to glance around for the other she expected. Ray stepped forward, and touched his lips tenderly to her forehead. H1olding his hand, she made him stand off where she could the better see him, and then she scrut inized him from head to foot. There, before h er, she stood, the living embodiment ot what her own son had been at his age, the very image of him she had so passionately loved and so sadly lost. She could scarcely persuade her- self that Reginald had not risen from the grave to meet ther again. There was his very gipsy skin and eyes of darkened fire; the curling locks of jet, and tall, princely form ; but the exptessioh of the month was different; his smile wis Erminie's exactly; and altogether there wa3 a strong, undefined, puzzling resem- blance between them that for a moment darkly clouded the brow of the gipsy as she observed it. The only being in the wide world she, cared for now, was Ray. Erminie might win all other hearts, but the gipsy Ketura's was as flint to her. Sh4 had hated her from the first; she hated her still; she would hate her until the last, for the sake of the race from which shesprung. Seeing she was not wanted, Erminie left the room to change her traveling-dress ; and Ray, seating himsef beside his grandmother, pro- ceeded to tell her of his studies, his progress, his hopes' and 'amlition for the future. One name he did not mention,.that of Pet Lawless ; and yet it was thrilling and vibrating at his heart-strings as he listened impatiently for the quick, sharp clatter. of her horse's hoofs. But, hlurs 'passed, and she came not; and. Ray, ang y at himself for caring or feeling so deeply disappointed, descended to join Erminie at the tea-table. ";Wlha; is Miss Lawless to me?" was the im- petuous i lought that sent the fiery blood ca- reering to. his brow. "She an heiress, and I a pauper-a beggar, with the tainted gipsy blood in my veins. We were .friends - something more, pe'haps-in the years that have past; but neither of us understood our relative posi- , tions, thn. No; proud as she is, she shall never kn w I have dared to lift mv eyes to her father's d ughter. I was a fool to come on here at all. I have heard she has driven dozens of better men crazy with her witchery ; and can I rely on nmy own strength to shield -me from her arts? Pshaw she will not think it worth while, though, th stoop to flirt with me. I, a menial, educated Iby the bounty of her uncle. I am safe enongh. and will think of her no more." A very laudable resolution it was, on the young geitltmiani' pait, but one which he found some difficulty in carrying odit inasmuch as Mr. and Miss Toosypegs and Admiral Havenful came in just then; arid afterr the first greetings were over, ther whole conversation turned on Pet, her Itricks, frolicsflirtations, capers, and !". 'i   caprices; and Ray found himself listening with an intense eagerness that he was half-inclined to be enraged at'himself for feeling. Then, just as night was falling, the gallop of a horse was heard coming through the forest- road; and, a few minutes later, Pet alighted at the gate, darted up the walk, burst, like the im- petuous little whirlwind she was, into the cot- tage, clasped Erminie in her arms; and kissed her again and again, until Ray-though nothing earthly would have made him own it, even to himself-would have given untold wealth to have stood in his sister's gaiters. Three somewhat furious embraces, that quite took away Erminie's breath, being over, Miss Lawless found time to glance at the rest of the company, and seeing Ray, as he stood, tall, and .dark, and silent, by the window, went over and held out her hand. There was something more nearly approach- ing to timidity in the action, and in the quick glance and quicker dropping of her resplendent eyes than any one had ever seen Pet manifest before. Ray bent over the little dark handi whose touch sent a quick, sudden tihrill to his inmost. heart; and thought that, in all his life, he had never seen any one so beautiful as she looked then, with her vailed eyes, and drooping ringlets, and long, waving plumes that bent over her hat, touching her glowing cheeks as if enamored of the darkly splendid face beneath. "Humph! A cold welcome, my little Mother Cary's Chicken," grunted the admiral. "Why don't you kiss him like you did Snowdrop? That's no way to welcome a friend you haven't seen for three whole blessed years."' Ray's eyes met hers, and the color flushed to her very brow; then, withdrawing her hand, she tossed her saucy head till all her jetty curls flashed and sparkled, and throwing herself into a seat, began talking to ,Erminie, as if for a wager.'  "Who told you we were come?" asked Er- minie. "No one," said Pet. "It was an inspiration from on high, I expect, that told me I should find you here." It's a wonder you did not see us at Judes- town : we remained there some time." "Well, how do you know 1 didn't see you?" said Pet. "WhIy, you surely--O Pet! did you see us, and never spoke?" said Erminie, reproachfully. "i Well, I was otherwise engaged, you' know- in fact, there iwas a young .gentleman, a very young gentleman, in the case-and I couldn't very -well- lhave presented myself any sooner than I did," said Pet. "One of hei lovers, 'thought Ray,' with a curling lip.    - "Guess wliat the little' boy, who drove us over, told us about you Pet," said Erminie, laughing.. "What?' Nothing naughty, I hope."     "Well, I don't know; that's as. it may be. Shall I tell you what. he said?" "Of course; I like to hear what people say about me." "Well, then, he said you were going to be married." ' "Not possible! Whatan asthunding revelation' Did you think I was going to be an old maid?" "Then it is true? ls it any harm to ask who the happy man is, Pet?" "Well, I haven't quite decided yet. I have some four or five on trial, and I generally put them through a severe course of martyrdom every day. The one whlo survives it (not more than one can possibly survive it), I shall prob- ably make miserable for life, by bestowing upon him my hand-and heart, I was going to say, only fortunately they forgot to give me one when I was made." Ermuinie laughed, and then the conversation became general, and two hours imperceptibly slipped away. Ray having wrought himself up to the belief that Miss Lawless was a heartless flirt, worthy of no higher feeling than contempt, he, in order to resist the dark witchery of her magnetic eyes, wrapped himself up in his very coldest mantle of pride, and addressed just as little of his conversation to her as he possibly could, with ,ut being positively rude. Pet, as proud in her own way as himself, noticed this at once, and her cheek flushed, and her eyes flashed, for a moment, with anger and pride. Then these signs of emotion passed away, and she grew her own, cool, careless self again,'talking away recklessly, and laughing contemptuously at all sentiment, until Ray was more than ever convinced that the world had completely siloil- ed her, and that she was as arrant a coquette as ever made a fool of a sensible man. As they arose to go, Ray, feeling himself bound in courtesy, offered to escort her home, but Pet coldly and curtly declined; and vaulting into her saddle, dashed off at a break-neck pace,. madly reckless even for her. Looking back once, she caught a glimpse of i a tall dark fobr leaning against a tree witl fold- ed arms, and -watching her still. Did she, with i her light, sparkling, thoughtless nature, realize the struggle going on jn that young heart, be- i tween love and pride, at that moment?  Of course, the, arrival of Ray and Erminie precluded 'her " exploring expedition," as she j called it, to the sea-shore. The next morning,  and part of the afternoon, were spent with Er- t minie; but reachng home a little before sunset, she suddenly remembered it, and started off on I the spur of the moment, like a female Don Quixote in search of adventures.      t "It's too late to begin a 'regular search," a thought Pet, as she ran down the bank leading c to the shore; "so I'll just have a look rpund the ^ place and come back some other day, and have v a real good hunt for smugglers."      8     Fifteen minutes brought her to the beach, and there she paused to look round. The sands y for a long distance out were bare; but the tide was slowly tramping inward. On the other e hand, a huge wall of beetling rocks and project- ing crags met the eye; but these walls of rock ' were so smooth and perpenllicular, and so dizzi- ly high, that the boldest sailor, used to climb- ing all his life, would have hesitated before at- tempting to clamber up. There were two paths leading to the shore-the one Pet hadi just de- t scended, and another about half a mile distant. I Between these the massive wall of rock chose e to indulge itself in a sudden impetuous rush out, forming a huge projecting shoulder, up which a cat could hardly have climbed safely. The tide always covered this a considerable length ' of time before it could reach the sands on eitler sid(e, so that a person caught at high 'tide on either side found himself cut off from crossing over to the opposite side, unless he had a boat, or could swim.           I "Now," thought Pet, "I'll have to look sharp and not let the tide catch me on the other side of that bluff, there, or if I do, I'll have a walk of half a mile along the beach to the other road, and after that over a mile to get home, which is a promenade I am not .anxious for. I might swim across, it is true, but swimming With all one's clothes on is not the pleasantest or safest thing in the world ; and all the .simuglers this side of Pompey's Pillar are not worthll the cold I would catch. I'll just walk over and look at the rocks, and then corin- back again." Following up this intention, Pet walked slowly along, scanning the high, dark, frowning rocks with a 'curious eye. As far as she could see, there was not the slightest trace of an opening anywhere; yet the people said that some place along thin shore the smugglers had a rendezvous. Pet's keen eyes detected every ' fissure large enough to hold a mouse, but no trace of secret cave or hidden cavern could be seen. "I miglit have known it was all nonsense," said Pet, mentally. * Tile notion of finding an underground cave full of robbers, and ljewels, and all that sort of thing, is too much like a play, or a story in the ' Arabian Nighs,' to be natural. However, as the night's fine, Ill just go on and look on the other side of the bluff." By this time she bha reached the high pro- jecting boulders, and she-paused for a moment to glance at the sea. It was still several yards dis- tant, and Pet felt sure she could go down some distance, and return again before the rising tide would bar her passage. The sun had set and there was no moo n; but the starlight was bright, and the sca-brcee e cool and invigorating; so Pet, in high 'spirits, walk- ed on. Here and there she could catch the white sail of some boat, skimming over the waves; but the long beach was lonely and de- serted.     "Well, I guess I may as well turn back now," said Pet; half aloud. "1 am afraid my search after smugglers is going to be unsuccessful after all. I aliven't caught anything this evening, that's certain." "But Something has caught you, pretty one," said a voice, close behind hler, so close and sud- den that Pet jumped round with a startled ejac- ulation, and found herself face. to face with her sometimq tutor and discarded lover, Rozzel Garnet. His face was flushed, his eyes were gleaming with triumnph, as he laid one powerful hand on her shoulder, and held her fast. In one instant the whole danger of her, situa- tion flashed upon Pet. She had made this man her deadly enemy; he had probably long wait- ing for an opportunity of revenge-here she was completely in his power, alone on the long, dreary, d&serted beach, where her cries, if she uttered apy, could reach no ear. Above her towered the high, precipitous, beetling rocks that she 6ould not limb; on the other hand, spread out the boundless ocean, more merciful than him into whose hands she had fallen. Like ligiltning, it all passed through her mind, and for one moment she quailed. But then her b'rave heart rose; this was no time for puerile fears, and she faced round, drew up her slight formh to its full height, and met her ene- my with a dauntless eye.      \ "Good-evening, Mr. Garmet,"'she said, com- posedly. "This is an unexpected pleasure ,Wetougnt you had gone away." "Alh! did you? Gone where, Miss Law- less?" he paid, with a sinister smile. a"Well -anywhere-to the county jail, as like- ly as not; ibut people don't always get their de- serts in this world." "Very rue, Miss Pet-; but you are, at pres- ent, in a feair way to get yours." "Humps ! You'll allow me to differ from you, therei  I deserve something better than bad company, I hope; so permit me to wish you a very good-evening, Mr. Garnet." "Not so fast, Miss Lawless; you must. do your humble servant the honor of conferring i your company upon him for a few days. As I E have not s en you for so long a time, it would be highly impolite, not to say cruel, to hasten away so sopn, now." "Indeed! Mr. Garnet-in-deed!" said Pet, arching he' brows. "Your lesson in the libra- N ry did not ure you, I see. Are you aware there - is such a t sing as a jail in Judestown, where re- c fracetory gentlemen who threaten peaceable citi- a zens are sometimes taken for a change of air? I 'Really, Mr Garnett, I think a little wholesome 1 correction rould not hurt you in the least."  "No, Miss Lawless, I have not forgotten that t scene in tie library of your father's house," 1 said Garnet, tightening his grasp till Pet winced with pain. "My hand bears the mark of your   sharp teeth yet; and as I am deeply your debt- or for that Judas-kiss, I shall pay you in your own coin before either of us are many hours older. Did you think how near retribution was when you gave me that sharp caress, Miss Law-, less?" "'Sharp caress. I suppose that means a bite. If you're not anxious to test their sharp- ness again, Mr. Garnet, you'll let go my arm. Faith! I wish I had imade one of my servants horsewhip you from my gates, that day; you would not have dared to come sneaking round like a white-livered coward, that you are- now!" "Petronilla Lawless, take care!" he hissed, with a fierce gleam of his eye. "Take care of what? I'm not afraid of you, Rozzel Garnet," flashed Pet. "Anything in the shape of a man who would go round play- ing the spy on an unprotected girl, has sunk rather low to be feared by me. Take care, you! I vow! if there is such a thing as a cowhide in the country, I shall have you thrashed for this, within an inch of your cowardly life." "And get your attached friend, the gipsy beggar, to administer it-eh, Miss Lawless?" he said, with the smile of a fiend. "What a pity he is not here, like a true knight-errant, to rescue his lady-love!" It.'s well for you he's not, or' he wouldn't leave a whole bone in your miserable skin. Let me go, I tell you! Your presence is pollution," said Pet, struggling fiercely to get free. He held her with a grasp of iron, and watch- ed her ineffectual efforts with a grim smile. "I told you when we would meet again you would plead to me," he said, with an evil gleam of his snake-like eyes. "That time has come." "Has it, indeed?" said Pet.. "Well, if you have heard or are likely to hear me pleading to anybody under heaven, I must say you have a wonderful pair of ears. I have read of a gen- tleman called Fine-ear, who could hear the grass growing; but, upon my word, he couldn't hold a candle to you!" "The time will come, girl, when you will grovel and plead at my very feet, only to be spurned!" "Now, Mr. Garnet, look here," said Pet; "you're plagiarizing a story out of' The Arabian Night's Entertainments.' You needn't think to palm it off on me as original, for I've read it, as well as you, and know all about the glass mer- chant, wiho fancied lie would marry the vizier's daughter, and have her kneeling at her feet, just as I am to do at your royal highness's, you know; and then he would very ungallantly give her a kick, and in so doing, smashed his basket of glass, all to pieces. You needn't think to talk me in, you see; for my education has not been neglected more than your own." "Cease this fooling," said Garnet, angrily, "and come with me. Resistance is useless.   You are Completely in my power, and may as well come quietly." "I won't then! Not a step will I budge, if I die for it!"said Pet, planting her feet fairly in the yielding sand. "I am not in the habit of walking out with gentlemen at this hour of the evening, I would have you to know. ' Come one, come all, this rock shall fly From its firm base as soon as I.'" And Pet, with an undaunted look, that would have made her fortune as a Virtuous' heroine in difficulties on the stage, looked unflinchingly in his face. though her stout heart was throbbing as she each moment more and more clearly saw her danger. "Then I shall make you, by  *!"And lie swore a fearful oath, while a terrible frown set- tled on his face. "Since you will not walk, I shall bind you hand and foot and have you car- ried. Scream as loud as you like," he added, grimly; "there is no one far or near to hear you."     .  - Holding her still with one hand, he began fumbling in his pockets, probably in search of something to bind her hands and feet. Pet cast a quick, sweeping glance around. Along the beach not a living soul was to be seen, and even the boats were now out of sight. They were close to the boulder, 'around which the waves were now seething and dashing; and the tide was rapidly advancing to where they stood. Pet had her back to the boulder, while lie stood facing it, thus wedging her into a narrow pris- on, with the high, steep rocks on one side, and the dashing sea on the other, and preventing all hope of escaping by running along the I beach. His eye followed hers, and he said, with a triumphant chuckle:             t "Caged, my bird of paradise! Snared, my mountain eaglet! Trapped, my forest fairy! Won, my dauntless lady-love! Ha! ha! ha! Your ever-triumphant star has set, at last, my beautiful, black-eyed bride." Standing between her and all hope of escape, he ventured to relax his grasp for a moment, to aid in the search for somethi'g to bind her with. In one second, like a bolt from a bird, she dart- ed forward, and with one wild, flying leap, im- b possible to anything but desperation, she sprang c sheer into the foaming waters and vanished! a Vanished but for an instant. Pet could swim c like a fish, or a cork, or a mermaid, or any- t thing else you please, while Mr. Rozzel Garnet t had as intense an aversion to cold water as a b sufferer from hydrophobia. As quickly as she had disappeared did her black curls glitter b above the white foam again, as she dauntlessly s] struck out for the shore.         w She had not far to swim, and she buffeted the B waves like a sea-goddess; so, while Mr. Rozzel ol Garnet stood stunned, speechless, paralyzed, she tt had gained the shore, fled as fast as her drip- to   s ping clothes would permit her along the beach, rushed up the path, then back again on the I rocks up above, until she stood directly over athe spot'where the foiled villain still remained, f as if rooted to the ground, unable to compre- e hend which end he was standing on, to use a strong figure of speech. "Hallo, Mr. Garnet! how do you find your- self?" shouted Pet, from above. "iOh my! how I beautifully you did it! My stars! you ought to have a leather medal piresented to you for catching girls-you do it so cleverly." He turned and looked up; and there, in theo r dusk, bright starlight, he saw Pet all dripping like a Naiad, and her black eyes almost outflash- ing the stars themselves. "Curses light on her!" he hissed between his teeth. "Thank you, Mr. Garnet!   Curses, like chickens, come home to roost, you know. Ah you did it-didn't you?" said?et, provokingly "Don't you wish you had me, though? It's slippery work holding eels, and dangerous to play with exploding bombshells, and stinging occupation pulling nettles; but the coat-sleeves that try to hold me will find a harder and more dangerous job than any of them. Good-night, Mr. Rozzel Garnet, and pleasant dreams; and remember, when you next try to captivate me, that earth, air, fire, and water, were never made to hold' me." "Al! you may triumph now-it is your turn," he said, looking up, livid with rage; "but mine will come yet! my tim, will come!" "Well, it's consoling to hear. I hope you'll ltave a good time when it does come." And with a taunting laugh, Pet darted off. Little did either of them drean how closely that time was at hand,. - CHAPTER XXVIII. AN UNLOOKED-FOR LOVER. "And yet this tough, impracticable heart Is governed by a dainty-fingered girl."-Rowz. "There is a pleasure in being mad, Which none but madmen know."- DaYDIN. Judge Lawless was pacing up and down the floor of his study with rapid, excited strides, his brows .knit, his face flushed, his hands clenched, his teeth set, his whole look, attitude, and bearing, speaking of deepest, intensest ex- citement. When in profound or troubled thought, he had a habit (many have) of talking to himself, unconsciously; and now he muttered, between his teeth: "I am going mad--I am mad-bewitched-, bewildered! To think that I, at my years, should fall in love like a boy of eighteen. I, who fancied I had outlived all such rubbish. But, O that girl! that glorious girl! that angel of beauty! that transcendently radiant crea- ture! that lovely, bewildering, enchanting, in- toxicating Erminie! Good heavens! how the     very thought of her sets my head whirling! that electric Erminie! with her angel-smile and irr4diated face! Who could help loving her? lNot I, certainly, and yet it is only one short wqek since helr return home. Oh, that I couid win her to love me! Oh, to possess that love-angel! O Erminie I Erminie!" And breathing out'his very soul in the syllables of her name, he sank into a chair, and leaned his throbbing head on his hand. Judge Lawless had all his life computed him- self as a! grave, self-possessed, dignified gentle- man; excessively proud, excessively unbending, and so calm and unimpassioned that it seemed a matteri of doubt whether he was made of com- mon fles! and blood or cast-iron. But now, at the matgre age of five-and-forty, all his pride and dignity blew away, like a whiff of down on a blast, at the first glimpse of Erminie Ger- maine's lfair, sunshiny, blooming young face; and here, he was, now, making a downright fool of himsef--as many another old gentleman has doe, is doing, and will continue to do, while the world goes round. Forgetting that he was near- ly treble ier age, forgetting his high position in the world and her lowly one, forgetting he was far more likely to be some day her father-in- law than heI husband, forgetting everything; in a word!, but that her beauty had turned his brain Judge Lawless sat down to reflect on the best course to pursue in the present somewhat unsatisfactorv state of affairs. Judge Lawless was, as I told you, a grave, ealm pulsed gentleman, who considered himself as good, ;not to say considerably better, than any others man in the world, and held in the profoundest contempt the little corner of the world in which lie lived, and its quiet, hum-drum f inhabitants. Therefore, he heard Pet boister- a ously relating the arrival of Mr. and Miss Ger- 1 maine with the greatest indifference, and with- out the remotest idea of ever giving either of I them another thought beyond a cool caution to Pet not to associate too freely with people of "that set",; but when, the next morning, riding  past Old Barrens Cottage on his way to Judes- i town, a vision met his eyes of such dazzling I beauty thdt involuntarily lie stood stock-still to gaze, Judge Lawless found that the only one in c the world worth thinking of was one of" that w set." There stood Erminie at the gate, in her ti trim, spotless, muslin morning-dress, with her E snowy lineh collar and cuffs, looking as fresh, K and pure, and fair, as the beautiful form they o draped. The morning sunshine flashed in her th shining. waving, thick, soft hair, gilded the roses th on her cheeks, kindled a brighter light in the tr large, soft, violet eyes, and lay like a friend's kiss on the full and rounded lips. Judge Law- ga less was spell-bound, enchanted, bewildered, be- deviled, to use his own phrase. In all his life he had never seen so dazzling a beauty-in all his th life he had never expected to see any one half so re    lovely again; and there he stood, gazing upon her le like a man in a dream, quite unconscious that the g young lady, whoever she was, might think this ie prolonged stare very strange, to say the least of I it. But she did not think it very strange at it all. She recognized him, of course; and think- d ing he was merely trying to identify her, she )f pushed open the gate, and came out to him with is a blush and a smile, and, being always a little awed and afraid of his stately grandeur, held out i- her hand to him with a girlish timidity quite e- charming. ;, ." I suppose you have forgotten me, sir," she d said, lifting the irresistible violet eyes to his i- face. "I am Erminie Germaine." ,t  "'Little Erminie? Why, how pret-a-I e mean, how well you are looking!" he said, tak- n ing the hand she offered, and holding it a much - longer time than was strictly necessary. "Who ;would ever think! Why don't you come over 1 to Heath Hill some time, Miss Germaine?" a  "I have promised Miss Lawless to go and espend the day with her soon," said Erminie, embarrassed by his too-ardent gaze, ind striv- aing to withdraw her hand. "I hope she is well?"        .  - "Who? Eh? Oh, yes! she's well. Come over to-morrow, Miss Germaine. I shall be very glad-to see you." "I thank you, sir; I shall be most happy to ; do so," replied Erminie, growing more and more embarrassed by his open, admiring gazes, and again trying to withdraw her hand. But the judge, quite unconsciously, held the little snow-flake fast, and seemed inclined to commit petty larceny by keeping it altogether, while lie gazed and gazed in the sweet, blushing face, with its waving hair and drooping eyes, and fell desperately and more desperately in love every moment. "  Won't you come in, Judge Lawless?" said Erminie, at last, confused by her situation, fear- ing to offend him, yet wishing to get away. " Come in? 0h, yes-to He sure!" exclaim- ed the judge, with alacrity. ,' I was just think- ing-a-of going in to see your grandmother. I hope she is quite well." And the judge, who had never entered the cottage before, nor dreamed in the most remote way of ever doing so, actually got off his horse, tied him to a stake, and followed the surprised Erminie into the house. And then, forgetting Ketura, and his' business in Judestown, and all other sublunary things, in the presence of this enchanting maiden, there he remained for three mortal hours, until the unlooked-for en- trance of Ray, who had been over the moor gunning, and now returned with a well-filled game-bag, looked happy, handsome, and with a powerful appetite. As his eye fell upon their strange guest, he started, colored slightly, and then bowed with cold hauteur. Judge Lawless returned it with one no less stiff; for though in   love with the sister, it by no means followed he was very passionately enamored of the brother. And then discovering, to his horror, that the whole morning was gone, he rode off, followed by the haunting vision of a sweet young face, with waving, floating hair, and dark, lustrous, violet eyes. And from that hlour may be dated the "de- cline and full " of Judge Lawless. His business was. given up for visits to the cottage; his family concerns were neglected for day-dreamrns that, however excusable in youths with faintly-sprouting moustaches, were quite absurd in a dark, dignified, " potent, grave, and reverend seigneur" like Judge Adolphus Lawless. But when love comes in at the door, sense flies out at the window, to change the ad- age a little, and especially where gentlemen on the disagreeable side ,of forty are concerned. So Judge Lawless was deaf, blind, and dumb to that awful bug-bear "They Say," and might have been seen at the cottage morning, noon, and night, to the utter amazement and complete astonishment of all who knew him, and to none more so than to his blue-eyed inflammation of the heart herself. Erminie was at a loss-complete- ly at a loss, and so was Ray. Neither of them dreamed-no one dreamed-that the pompous, haughty Prince Grandison of a Judge Lawless could have fallen in love at all, much less with the little, obscure cottage-girl, Erminie Ger- maine-tainted, as she was, by that greatest of all crimes, poverty. Obscure, I said: let me retract that word. Ermitie Germaine-beauti- ful Erminie-was known and celebrated far be- yond Old Barrens Cottage for her beauty, and goodness; and gentleness, and all the other qualities that make some women a little lower than the angels. But no one thought that on a heart of flint like his-or, rather, no heart at all -the Venus de Medicis herself, should she step out alive from her pedestal, could make the slightest impression; and therefore, though our' Erminie was every bit as good-looking as that scantily'.draped lady of whom the world raves, though she had grown to be another Helen for \whom another Troy might have been lost, no one set his visits to the cottage down to her, but 'rather to eccentricity, to some scheme, to some inexplicable notion, to anything at all but to the real cause.              I And so Judge Lawless was in love, and unsus- a pected. And as lie sat there in' his library, with v his head in his hand, thinking, and pondering, and revolving, and wondering, on the best meth- i od of bringing matters to a crisis, and astonish. I ing his friends. His intention was, to raise Miss ] Germaine to the dignity of his wife. Judge Lawless was severely moral; but how to propose q -that was the trying horn of the dilemma*. v Judge Lawless was not accustomed to proposing; j he had not attempted it for the last-five-and-  twenty years, and then the lady had saved blim t   the trouble. Mrs. Lawless had been a wild young heiress, who fell violently in love with the i "sweet," curling hair and "divine" whiskers of the handsome young lawyer, and not being troubled with that disagreeable disease incident to most very young ladies, ycleped bashfulness, had, like a girlof honor, come to the point at once, and, in a very composed, upright, and down- right way, tendered him her hand and fortune. The ambitious young lawyer, nothing loth, took her at her word, and, one fine moonlight night, a fourth-story window was opened, a rope-ladder put in requisition; then a carriage; then a par- son; then a ring, and "Adolphus Lawless, bar. rister at law," as his shingle then announced him, was wooed and won. But this was quite another thing. He was in love now-which he hadn't been the first time; and love makes the boldest warrior that ever clove helmets and heads in battle as timid as a -I was going to say girl; but I wont, for, in such a case, they are not timid at all-but as a newly-fledged gosling. Not that lie feared a re- fusal. Judge Lawless drew himself up until his pantaloon-straps cracked, and looked indignantly in the glass at himself for entertaining such an idea an instant. But he didn't know the formula -  -It was it. Things had changed so since he was a garfon, and the manner of popping the question might have changed with the rest. It would never do to make himself ridiculous; though, as the thought crossed his mind, lie drew himself up again to the full extent of his six feet odd inches, and felt indignant at the notion of his being ridiculous under any circumstances whatever. "Have her I must, come what will!" he said, getting up again, and resuming his 2:40 pace up and down the floor. "I am madI about that girl, I believe. The world may laugh and sneer at the idea of my marrying a-well, a pauper, in point of fact, when I could win, if I chose, the highest in the land. Well, let them. If Judge Lawless cannot do as he pleases, I should like to know who can. I have wealth enough to do us both; the old admiral will leave his estate and bank-stock to Ranty and Pet, gnd ihm-m-m, ah!- Yes, have her I must- that's settled. And this very afternoon shall I ride over, and let her know the honor in store for her!" And that very afternoon, true to his promise, Judge Lawless, arrayed in a sombre, dignified suit of black, with his hair and whiskers oiled and scented to that extent that his fast mare, Wildfire lifted up her head, and looked at him in grave astonishment, and inwardly resolved to keep a wary eve on her master for the future, lest he should take to dandyism in his old age. Arriving at the cottage, he fastened his mare, and rapped at the cottage'door with his riding- whip, in a grand and important sort of way be' fitting the occasion. Erminie herself opened it; and, at sight of her beautiful, rounded form, the taper waistt the swelling bust, the white, round'     ed throat, on which the graceful little head was poised with the queenly air of a royal princess; the waving, sunshinry hair, the smiling lips, the soft, tender, violet eyes, Judge Lawless was twice, and thrice. as deeply, and'irretrievably, and desperately in love as ever. He cane in. Erminie was alone. How he thanked fhe gods for that! took a seat, stood his cane in the corner, laid his hat on the table, drew out a snowy cambric handkerchief, redo- lent of nrusk, eau de cologne, ottar of roses, and bergamopt, from one of those intensely mysteri- ous pockets gentlemen, for some inscrutable reason, 'ear in their coat-tails, blew his nose, replaced his handkerchief, laid a hand'on each knee, looked at Erminie, and prepared her for what was; coming by a loud " ahem!" Erminie, whose rosy fingers were flying, as if by stress, on some article of dress, did not look up; so all these significant preparations, proper to be done, and which are always done, I be lieve, whenever elderly gentlemen go to pro- pose, were quite thrown away upon her. "Ahem!" repeated the judge, with some se- verity, ard yet looking with longing eyes at the graceful form and sweet, drooping face before him, "Miss Erminie!" She lomked up inquiringly, with a smile. "Ahena!"The stately judge was rather em- barrassed!"Perhaps, Miss Germaine, you are not in utt r ignorance of-ahem!-of the object of my Visits here. I have revolved the matter over in al its bearings, and have come to the conelusio4 that-ahem!!-that I am at perfect; liberty to please myself in this matter. The world may wonder-no" doubt it will; but I trust I hae wisdom enough to direct my own actions ; nd though it may stare, it cannot but s admire the person Hahem!-I have chosen!" The julge made a dead halt, drew out his . handkercl ief again, until the air would have re- a minded y ui of "Ceylon's spicy breezes," and shifted hif left leg over his right, and then his i right one over his left. Erminie, not under- ] standing one word of this valedictory, had drop- e ped her wqrk, and sat looking at him, with wide- open eyes. 6 In short, therefore, Miss Germaine, we will, b if you please, consider the matter settled; and 1 you will greatly oblige me by naming the earli- 1 est possible day for the ceremony."     s "  The ceremony I! What ceremony, sir?" said the puzzled Erminie, looking prettier than v ever in her perplexity. -"  Why, kour marriage, to be sure!" "Our marriage?"             I "Certainly, my love. The earlier the day, 1 the sooner my happiness will be complete!" i And th judge raised her hand to his lips I with the stately formality of five-and-twenty n years before, fearing to venture any further; for there was a look in the sweet, wondering eyes a that made him rather uneasy.   I  "Judge Lawless, excuse me. I do not know , what you mean. I fear I have misunderstood you," said Erminie, more perplexed than she ever was before in the whole course of her life. I  "M sunderstood me? Impossible, Miss Ger. maine! I have used the plainest possible lan- guage, I think, in asking you to be my wife!" ' Your wife?" "Yes, my wife!  Why this surprise, dear girl? Why, Erminie  Good, Heavens, Er- minie! is it possible you really have not un- derstood me all this time? Why, dearest, fair- est girl, I love you-I wish you to be my wife! Do you understand now?" He would have passed his arm around her waist; but, crimson with burning blushes, she sprang to her feet, a vivid light in her beautiful eyes, and raised her hand to waive him off. "You are mocking me, Judge Lawless I! If you have had your amusement, we will drop the subject." "Mocking you, my beautiful Erminie! I swear to you I love you with all my heart and soul! Only make me happy, by saying you will be my wife!" The conviction that he was really serious, now for the first time dawned on Erininie's mind. The rosy tide flooded neck and brow again, and she dropped her flushed face in her hands, as she- remembered he was Ranty's father. "I am not surprised that you should wonder at my choice," said the judge, complacently. "Of course, the world expects I should marry a woman of rank; but I like you, and I am de- termined to please myself, let them wonder as they will!" Erminie's hands dropped from her face, crim. son now, but not with embarrassment; her eyes flashed with the fiery spirit of the old De Cour- cys, as she drew herself up to her full height, and calmly said: "I will spare, you the humiliation, and your friends the trouble of wondering at your choice. For the honor you have done me, I thank you, even while I must decline it." 4"Decline, it!"' The judge sat aghast. Erminie compressed her lips, and silently bowed. She stood there like a young queen, her proud little head erect, her fair cheeks scar- let, her eyes darkening and darkening, until they seemed almost black. "Decline it!"The judge, in his amazement, was a sight to see. "Yes, sir." "Miss Germaine, H'm thunderstruck H I'm confounded? H am utterly confounded I Miss Germaine, you do not mean it; you can- not mean it! it's impossible you can mean it! Refuse me I Oh, it is utterly impossible yon can mean it!" "On the contrary, wonderful as it seems, I must distinctly and unequivocally decline the honor." And Erminie's look of calm determi-   nation showed her resolution was not to be shaken. Judge Lawless rose to his feet and confronted her. In'dignation, humiliation, an- ger, wounded pride, mortification, jealousy, and a dozen other disagreeable feelings, flushing his face until its reflection fairly imparted a rosy hue to his snow-white shirt-bosom. t"Miss Germaine, am I to understand that you refuse to marry me?" "Decidedly, sir." "May I ask your reason for this refusal, Miss Germaine?" "I recognize no right by which you are priv- ileged to question me, Judge Lawless, but be- cause of the respect I owe one so much my se- nior, I will say that, first, I do not love you; second, even if I did, I would not marry one who looks upon me as so far beneath him; and third-"SIhe paused, caught his eve fixed upon her, and' colored more vividly than before. "Well, Miss Germaine, and third," he said, sarcastically. "I will answer no more such questions, Judge Lawless,"' she said, with proud indignation; "and I repeat it once again; I cannot be your wife?" "That remains to be seen, Miss Germaine. There are more ways than lone of winning a lady-I have tried one, and failed; now I shall have recourse to another." "Judge Lawless, is that meant as a threat?" said Erminie, her proud De (ourcy blood flush- ing in her cheeks and lighting up her eyes again. He smiled slightly, but mLde no other reply, as he took his hat and cane and prepared to go. "Once again, Miss Erminie, before I go, I ask you if your mind is fully made up to reject me?" The darkening, streaming light of the violet s eyes fixed full upon him was his only answer, 3 as she stood drawn up to her full height. "Good-morning, then," he said, with a courteous smile. ("I do not despair, even yet. j Time works wonders, you know, Miss Germaine. I Give my best regards to your excellent grand- mother." And with a stately bow, a la Gran-  dison, the judge left the cottage, and the light a of the dark, indignant, beautiful eyes.  i But once on his horse, and galloping like n mad over the heath, a change wonderful to see c came over the bland face of the judge. Dark and darker it grew, thicker and thicker was his a scowl, angrier and angrier became his eyes, until' , his face looked like a human thunder-cloud.  "The proud, conceited, impertinent minx "I lie burst out, " to refuse me-me-me, Judge Lawless. Why, she must be mad I By heaven I  she shall be mine yet, if only to teach her a t lesson. Black Bart is in Judestown. I saw I him'yesterday; and he, with his fellow-smug- i glers, or pirates, or freebooters, or whatever d they are, shall aid me in this. It does not ,   1' sound well, to be sure, for a judge of the land Ito tacitly favor smuggling, but then those con- traband wines and brandies would tempt St. Peter himself. They shall do a different kind of smuggling for me this time. In- the Hidden Cave, Madame Erminie will hie safe enough, and that queen of the smugglers, or whatever she is, can take care of her. Refuse me I by the hosts above, that girl shall repent her temerity! This very day will I see Black Bart, and then-" He compressed his lips tight, and his face as- sumed a look of dark,-grim det'rmination that showed his resolution was unalterable. And meanwhile, Erminie, with her fair face bowed in her hands, was weeping the bitterest tears she had ever shed in her life. CHAPTER XXIX. MR. TOOSYEGS IN DISTRESS AGAIN. The time I've lost in wooing, In watching and pursuing The light that lies in woman's eyes, Has been my heart's undoing. Though wisdom oft has sought me, I scorned the love she brought me; My only books were woman's looks, And folly's all they've taught me.-MooRB. Admiral Harry Havenful sat alone in the par- lor of the White Squall, the heels of his boots elevated on the knobs of the andirons, his chair tipped back to that sublime angle which women admire, but men only understand. A long meerschaum, with an amber mouth-piece, protruding from his lips, while whiffs of blue, vapory smoke curled from the corner of his mouth'; his hands stuck in his trowsers pockets, and his eyes fixed admiringly on the pink and yellow ship-of-war on the mantel. Admiral Harry Havenful was enjoying life hugely on a small scale, when a dispirited knock, such as moneyless debtors give, was heard at the outer door. "Tumble up, below there I tumble up, ahoy- y-y!" roared the admiral, taking the pipe from his mouth to summon the servants. In compliance with this zephyr-like request, one of the darkeys " tumbled up," accordingly, and on opening the door, Mr. O. C. Toosypegs stalked in, and with the head of his cane in his mouth, entered the parlor and presented him- self to the jolly little admiral. "D'ye do, Orlando? give us your flipper," said the admiral, protruding one huge hand without rising, or even turning his bead, merely casting a glance over his shoulder, and smoking on as placidly as before. "I'm very well-that is, I ain't very well at all, Admiral Havenful, I'm very much obliged to you," said Mr. Toosypegs, grasping the huge hand and wriggling it faintly, a second or two. "My health ain't so good as it might be, and I don't expect it ever will be again, but I'm re- signed to that and everything else that may t      happen. ; It's nasty to be always complaining, you know, Admiral Havenful." "That s so, growled the admiral, in a tone so deeply bass, that it was quite startling. "Therefore, Admiral Havenful, though I ain't so Wvell as I might be, I'm very well in- deed, I'm! very much obliged to you. It must be nice to die and have no more bother-don't you think so, Admiral Havenful?" said Mr. Toosypegs, with a groan so deep that the admi- ral took his pipe from his mouth and stared at him.  "What now!" grunted th'e admiral, who fore- saw someflting was coming; "heave to!" "Admiral Havenful, would you be so good as not to iay that? ' You mean- well, I know, but you can't imagine the unpleasant sensations it causes- -ugh!" said Mr. Toosypegs, with a wry face!and a shudder. "You never were sea-sick, fere you, Admiral Havenful? If you were, you don't require to be told the pang that hearing that inflicts upon me. Therefore, please donitsay it again, for it gives me the most peculiar sensations that ever was." The aduiral' grunted, and began smoking away like an ill-repaired chimney. Mr. Toosy- a pegs 'sat uheasily on the edge of his chair, and continued. to make a 'light and rather un- a satisfactory repast off the head of his cane. , Thus a mournful silence was continued for some 1 fifteen or twenty minutes, and then the admiral 1 took his pipe from his mouth, wiped it on the u cuff of his sleeve, and without looking at Mr. a Toosspegs, drew a long, placid breath, and held it out toward him with a laconic:     I "Smokel?" "Thankee, Admiral iHavenful," said Mr. Toosypegs; mournfully, "I never do."   o "More fool you, then," said the admiral, gruffly, putting it in his own mouth again. C "Admiral lavenlful," said Mr. Toosypegs, in a large tome of voice, "I'm aware that I ain't q so wise as some of my friends could wish me; n but, at the 'same time, let me assure you that I s\ don't consider it a proof of wisdom to smoke at u all. Smokers mean real well, I know, but it's w unpleasant to others, besides setting the in'ards in a dingy state, blacking the teeth, adulterat- a lig the breath, and often producing spontane- tie ous combustion. Which means, Admiral Hav- enful," said Mr. Toosypegs, elevating his cane te to make thj explanation, " getting worked up to a a high degree of steam, and going off quite un- a expected apd promiscuous, some day, with a bo bang, and leaving nothing behind to tell the melancholyr tale but a pinch of ashes, and te that-" -? O bother!" cut in the admiral, impatiently. si Belay your jawing-tackle, young man, and let so somebody else have sea-room. WJiatpod   -hdb a you  hail fron  last ' , ...f . .. i v lf '/ - '  "Adniirna Havenftl,.said3kfJiTooaypegsa)in a p   wiyrffeide4 , attlhiaoafei iubd6 of treIt k-   lg, ing his digression on the evils of smoking, "if yu .mean by that where I was all niorning, I've so ju8scome from Dismal Hollow. Aunt Prisciller wasn't in-well, she wasn't in very good spirits I -and so I got out of the back door and come n- away. I was going to Old Barrens Cottage, only st I saw Judge Lawless' horse Wbuore the door, 't and so I came here." r.  "Always welcome, Orlando, boy-- always i- welcome," said the admiral, brislkly. "But at hold on- a minute! What the dickens brings that stiff bowsprit of a brother-in-law of mine e- so often to that cottage? Eh, Orlando?"  I don't know, I'm sure, Admiral Havenful," d said Mr. Toosypegs. "It's real singular, too; v, because lie never used to go there at all, and s now his horse is at the door every day." a  "So's yours, for that matter. Hey, Orlan- edo? Mr. Toosypegs blushed to the very roots of t his hair, and shifted his feet uneasily over the , floor, as though it burnt them. t  "Orlando," said the admiral-holding his pipe between his finger and thumb, and regard- ing significantly these emotions-"Orlando, I see breakers ahead!"      O 1  "Admiral Havenful," said Mr. Toosypegs, in *. a tone of mingled uneasiness and anguish, "I dare say you do; but, my gracious! don't keep looking at a fellow so! I couldn't help it, you know; apd I know it's all my own fault to be miserable for life. I don't blame any body at all, and I rather like being miserable for life than otherwise. I know you mean well; but I'd rather you wouldn't keep looking at me so. I'm very much obliged to you." "  Orlando," solemnly began to admiral, With- out removing his eyes from the other's face, "you're steering out of your course altogether. Come to anchor! Now, then, what's to pay?" The unexpected energy with which this last question was asked had such an effect on the nerves of Mr. O. C. Toosypegs, that lie gave a sudden jump, suggestive of sitting down on an upturned pin-cushion, and grasped his stick in wild alarm. "Now, Orlando," repeated the admiral, with a wave of his pipe-" now, Orlando, the quest tion is, what's to pay?" "  Admiral Haventul," said Mr. Toosypegs, in terror, " there ain't nothing to pay; I don't owe a cent in the world, s'elp me Bob! I don't owe a single blamed brass farthing to. a child un- born!" "Pah!" said -the admiral, with a look of in- tense disgust at his obtuseness. "I didn't mean that. I want to know What's up whler:.thtsWmd sits; what you.-keep Jeruising .offindo Ti4htf eottakel*fe  ailtvbho itime , wltliw hoi 'ad    "   r. i     A I. ' " ' -w' ht'&iity ritent-on wfo Iheld 'ird0iAdmird1 'Iate iful,1b replied el frooaypegp, 'blusiig. ;elile ,eetlrooa 'Bu:,I'd at en   what takes me there, if it's all the same to you. It's a secret, locked deep in the unfathomable recesses of this here bosom; and I never mean to reveal it to any body till I'm a melancholy corpse in the skies. You'll excuse me, Admir- al Havenful; a fellow can't always restrain his tears, you, know; and I feel so miserable thank you, of late, that it's a consolation even to cry," said Mr. Toosypegs, wiping his eyes. "Now, Orlando, you just hold on a minute- will you?" said the admiral, facing briskly round, with much the same air as an unfeeling dentist who determines to have your tooth out whether you will or not; " now, look here, and let's do things ship-shape. Has our Firefly got anything to do with it?" ' Admiral Havenful, I'm happy to say she has not. I felt pretty badly about Miss Pet there, one time; but I have got nicely over that. It wasn't near so dangerous as'[ expect- ed it would be; hut this-this is. The way I feel sometimes, Admiral Havenful, is awful to contemplate. I can't sleep nor eat, and I don't take no pleasure even in my new pantaloons with the blue stripe down the side. I often lie awake nights, crying now, and I wish I had c never been born! I do wish it!" said Mr. Too- 1 pegs, with a sudden howl. "Where's the good of it, if a fellow's going to be made miserable - this way," I want to know?" "Orlando Toosypegs," said the admiral, ris- c ing, sternly, "just look here, will you? I'm not going to stand this sort of talk, you know- t this flying in the face of Providence"-here the " admiral raised his glazed hat, and looked rever- ently at a blue-bottle fly on the ceiling--, be- cause it's not proper nor ship-shape, nohow T you can fix it. Now, Orlando, I've advised you f time and atain - I've been a father to you be- n fore you was the size of a tar-bucket-I've turn- ' ed you up and spanked you when you wasn't o big as a well-grown marlin-spike, and I've often y given you a good kicking when you were older. v for your shortcomings; I've talked to you, Or- it lando Toosypegs, for your good till all was blue H -I've made myself as hoarse as a boatswain m splashing showers of good advice on you; and M now what's my return? You say you don't see no use in being born. Orlando, it grieves me-- it makes me feel as bad as if I had drank a pail H of bilge-water; but there is no help for it! I bl give you up to ruin-I've lost all faith in hu- man morals-I wash my hands of you altogeth- ad er!" Here the admiral looked around for somewa- fr ter to literally fulfill his threat; but, seeing m none, he wiped his hands on the tablecloth, and  resumed his sent with the air a Spartan father bu may be supposed to have worn when condemn-  ing his own son to death.         to So deeply affected was Mr. Toosypegs by this cra pathetic exhortation, that le sobbed away like fo a hyena in his flaring bandanna, with a great the X  r.   ou. I noise and much wiping of eyes and nose, which ible showed he was not lost to all sense of human man feeling. 'ly "Yes, Orlando," said the admiral, mournful- ir- y, "I repeat it, I'm determined to wash my his hands of you. The basin ain't here; but itFs le, no matter. Your father was a nice man, and men I'm sorry his son ever come to this." "Admiral Havenful," said Mr. Toosypegs, hiccoughing violently, "I'm ashamed of my- ly self. I oughtn't to have said it; and I won't do ig so no more at any price. I know-I know I ut oughtn't mind being wretched; but somehow I id do, and I can't help it. If you'll only forgive ot me, and not wash your hands of me, I'll tell you what's the matter, and promise to try and do ie better for the time to come." t, "Well, heave ahead l" said the somewhat er mollified mariner. t-  "Admiral Havenful!" exclaimed Mr. Toosy- I pegs, springing to his feet with such startling o energy that the old sailor jumped up, too, and t brandished his pipe, expecting a violent per- s sonal assault and battery-" will you be good e enough not to say that? Oh, my gracious 1" I exclaimed Mr. Toosypegs, in a wildly-distracted - tone, "if it ain't too darned bad! Ugh!" d  And with a violent shudder and a sea-green evisage, the unhappy young man sat down, with one hand on his mouth aud the other on his - dinner. a  With a violent snort of unspeakable con- - tempt, the admiral .flung himself back in his echair, and turned up his Roman nose to the highest possible angle of scorn. o '- Excuse me, Admiral Havenful," said Mi' Toosypegs, at length, in a fainting voice, "1 feel better, now. It was so-so sudden, and took me so unexpected, that-that it rather started me; but I'm quite well, now. I'm very much obliged to you. Ugh! The very mention of- you know what follows sea-sickness-turns my very skin to goose-flesh. We won't speak of it any more, if it's all the same to you, Admiral Havenful. I promised to tell you the cause of my misery- didn't I? Yes? Well, it's - it's Miss Minnie." "Little Snowflake! hea-I mean go ahead." "I went and fell in love with her, Admiral Havenful," said Mr. Toosypegs, looking around, blushing. "Stand from under!" growled the bewildered admiral. "Admiral Havenful, it's my intention to stand from under as much as possible. I'm very much obliged to you," said Mr. Toosypegs, po- litely. "I dare say you're surprised to hear it, but I really couldn't help it. I assure you she was so-so stunning, so as-I don't know what to call it; but it's enough to turn a fellow crazy, by granny! I know she don't care a pin for me. I know she don't, and nobody can tell the state it throws me into. I thought I felt     dreadfully about Miss Pet's black eyes, and I did, too; but it ain't no circumstance to the state Miss Minnie's blue one's pitches me into. Admiral 4lavenful, I don't -expect you've ever been in love, but it's the most awful state to be in ever wan. It makes you feel worse than sit- ting down into a wasp's nest-itreally does. In fact, I doih't know anything, except, perhaps, sea-sickne s, that's equal to it in unpleasant- nes."  So completely unexpected was this declara- tion, that lthe admiral so far forgot ,himself as tolook appealingly at his pipe and growl out, "Heave alIead!" The effct of this command on Mr. Toosy- pegs, in his present disordered state of mind, was perfeqtly electrifying. Springing to his feet, he seized his hat and cane, clapped his bandanna to his mouth, and, with a look of in- tense angt ish no pen can describe, made a rush from the d or, fled from the house, and vanish- ed for the remainder of that day from mortal eye. CHAPTER XXX. M ISS LAWLESS IN DIFFICULTIES. "The .iypocrite had left his mask, and stood In n iked ugliness. He was a man ^ Who stole the livery of the court of Heaven To sB rve the devil in."  -POLLOCK. Three hojrrs after his interview and rejection by Erminie, Jildge Lawless alighted at the inn-door in Jundstown. The obsequious landlord came outfall bows and smiles, to greet the grand seig- nor of thisF rustic town, and ushered him into the parlor vith as much, and considerably more, respect th4n he would have shown to the King of England, had that gentleman condescedded to visit the "Judestown House," as the flaming gilt sign-b6ard announced it to'be. "Glass {vine, sir? brandy water, sir? s'gar, sir? anything you want, sir?" insinuated mine host, all illa breath. "No. m) good man, I want nothing," said the judge, with a pompous wave of his jeweled hand; "I have come on important business this aftern6on. Is there a somewhat dissipated character, [ sailor, called Black-Black-really "Bart, sir? Yes, sir. Here five minutes 'go, sir," breathlessly cut in the landlord. "Ah!" said the judge slowly, passing his hand over his moustache ; "can you find him for me? X] wish to see him. I have reason to believe he can give me some information con- cerning those smugglers whlo of late have alarm- ed the goo d people around here so much." , "Yes, si ; hunt him up five minutes, sir-" And off bu tled the host of the Judestown House, in search of Black Bart. Judge Iawless arose with knit brows and be- gan pacing excitedly up and down the room, when alone. He knew this Black Bart well,   knew all about the smugglers, too, as his well- stocked cellar could testify. Judge Laiwless found them very useful in various ways, and having a remarkably elastic conscience of his own, was troubled with no scruples about cheat- ing the revenue, so long as his wine-bin was well supplied. But this was abduction-some- thing more dangerous, something that required alLhis wounded self-love, and disappointed pas- sion, and intense mortification to give him cour- age for. But hs plans were formed. For mon- ey he knew Black Bart and his comrades would do anything, and money Judge Lawless had in plenty. Half an hour passed. The judge began to cast many an impatient glance toward the door, when a bold, vigorous knock was heard. Knocks are very expressive: to those who understand them they speak as plainly as words; and this one was given with a loud, surly independence, that said, just as plainly as lips could speak : "I am as good a man as you are, Judge Law- less, and I don't care a curse for you or all the, revenue officers from here to Land's End." Judge Lawless understood it, and throwing him- self into a chair, he called out blandly: "Come in." The door opened, and a short, thick-set, weather-beaten, grim-looking, old sea-dog made his appearance, and giving his head a slight jerk to one side, by way of acknowledging the judge's presence, walked straight up to the fire- place, and deliberately spit. a discharge of to- bacco-juice right into the eyes of an unoffending cat, by way of commencing business s Then turning his back to the mantel, he put his hands behind him, crossed his feet, and stood ready to commence operations.          t "Well, square, what's in the wind now?'" de- manded the new-comer, at length, seeing the judge did not seem inclined to speak.' "Bart," said the judge, in a low, 'cautious tone, "I have a job for you." "All, right-I'm there! what's it, square? Anythink in the old line?" "No: this is something quite different. How long do you remain here this time?" "Can't say, for certain, boss. The schooner's off a repairin' and we're trying the land dodge till she's ready again; no telling though, yet, when that may be." "Is that woman, who accompanies you, here likewise." "Cap'n's wife? Well, yes, square, I reckon she is. What do you want of her?" "I want her to take charge of a young girl that you must carry off. Do you understand?" "Forcible 'duction, 'saltin' and batterin'. Come, square, you'ie goin' it strong." "Speak lower, for Heaven's sake! Will you undertake -to do this for me?" "If you make it worth while? Fork over the needful, and I'm there!"   "Money you shall have; but do you think this woman will undertake to look after the girl?"            I "See here, square; don't say 'this woman.' Call her the cap'n's lady--sounds better. Oh, shtfs got nothing to do with it: she's got to mind the cap'n. Who's the gal?" "Sh-sh! not so loud, man? Do you know the cottage on the Barrens, between Dismal Hollow and Heath Hill?" "Like a book. Why, square, it's not that beauty they talk about here: Miss-Miss- ,danged if I don't forget the name?" "Never mind the name-it's of no conse- quence. She's the girl. Do you know her?" "Htain't the honor; but one of our crew, a sort of dry-water sailor, knows her: I'll bring him along, and everything will go off like a new broom." "You must be careful not to mention my name-not even to her; because it would be a dreadful thing for me if this were found out." "Don't be scary, square, I'll be as close as a clam at high water. When do you want us to captivate the little dear?" "To-night-any time-the sooner the better!" "Will you be on hand yourself, square?" "No! To avoid the faintest shadow of sus- picion-though such is not likely to rest on me in any case-I will start for Baltimore immedi- ately, within the very hour, and there remain till all the hub-bhub her disappearance causes has passed away. You will keep her securely in your hidden cave all the time; and when the excitement has died out I will come and relieve you of your charge." "Your a brick, square-you are, by Lord Harry! What will beyour next dodge, then?" "That's as may be; most probably I shall take her with me to England. That's to be thought of yet, however; 'but I'll find a way, never fear." "Square, they ought to 'lect you to the Sen- ate-dang my buttons if they oughtn't! When Iget unseaworthy, I'm going to set up myself: can lie, and fight, and roar at 'tagonists like a brick; and got all the other qualifications, too numerous to mention." And with this slander on Senators in general, Black Bart clapped half a plug of tobacco in the other cheek, and indulged in a quiet chuckle. "Well, that's all, I believe," said the judge, rising. "You think'you will know this girl when you see her?" "I won't-'tother one will-trust me, square. 1 I'll go off and see him now, and him and me will take a stroll round that way." - "If she could be inveigled from the house i after night it would be the best time and way," M said the judge, musingly.         1 "Leave all them particulars to me, square; t I'll fix things up about the tallest. When's the  needful to come?" 1   "- When I return. You know me. Now, Bart, remember, to-night if you can; in three or four weeks at the furthest, I will return." The judge turned and left the room, mounted his horse, and rode off. Black Bart hitched up his pantaloons, and then fell back in a chair snapping his fingers, flourishing his heels, and indulging in such tremendous roars of laughter that the landlord rushed in, in deadly alarm, to see what awful calamity had happened. But still Black Bart gave vent to such ap- palling laughter-claps, without speaking, throw- ing himself back as if his spine was made of steel springs, and then jerking himself straight again, kicking up his heels, snapping his finger and thumb, and indulging altogether in such extraordinary antics of delight, that Boniface, completely at a loss, stood staring at him in silent wonder, thinking the judge's communica- tion, whatever it might have been, had com- pletely turned his brain. "There, Bart, be quiet now," said the host, soothingly. "You're scaring the people in the shop out of their wits. What's the matter with  you, any way?" "Nothing'!" replied Black Bart, going off into another roar, more deafening, if possible, than the first. "Well, I must say ' nothing' seems to be rath- er funny," said the puzzled landlord. "Was the judge pumping you about the smugglers?" "O Lord, don't!" shouted the sailor, with such a perfect yell of laughter, and twisting himself into such frightful contortions of inward delight, that the startled host sprang back and grasped the handle of the door, with a terrified glance toward his strange guest. "I'm off now," said Bart, at length, as soon as he had recovered from this last paroxysm; and wiping the tears from his eyes, he started at a Flora Temple pace down the street, paus- ing, however, now and then, as his lively sense of the ridiculous overcame him, to indulge in another terrifying peal of laughter, till affright. ed pedestrians fled from him in horror, thinking a dangerous lunatic had somewhere broken loose. He reached a low, smoky, obscure drinking den, near the end of the town, at last, and pass- ing through the bar-room he entered another low, dirty, dingy apartment, where the first in- dividual on whom his eyes rested, was our some- time friend, Mr. Rozzel Garnet. "Well, Bart," asked that gentleman, eagerly, "what did Judge Lawless want of you in such haste?" "Oh! ha! ha! ha! ha! ha ha!" roared Black Bart, in a perfect agony of enjoyment. "If it isn't about the best fun I've ever heard tell on. Why, man alive, you'd never guess if you were to try from this to doomsday. Judge Lawless, the saint, the angel, the parson, has fell in love, and want's the girl carried off! Oh! ha I ha I ha! ha! I'll split my sides!"     Mr. Roxzel Garnet did not join in Black Bart's merriment. He opened his eyes to their widest extent, and indulged in a long, low whistle, ex- pressive of any amount of astonishment. "Who' the girl?" he asked, at length. "That wonderful beauty at Old Barrens Cot tage-nothing shorter. Everything arranged, and the siuare will come down like a prince- or if-he doesn't, we'll make hifi, I don't know her; so you're to come with me, and together we'll carry off the girl the first chance. The judge has gone to Baltimore to keep out of harm's way, and won't be back for three or four weeks. Ain't it beautiful? The old judge in love!. Ha! ha! ha!" Like lightning there flashed a project of re- venge acrss the mind of Rozzel Garnet. None of the smugglers knew either Erminie or Pet Lawless-l hy not carry off Pet instead of the other, and:thus gratify his own passions, disap- point the judge, and have revenge. The blood flashed fiercely and hotly to his face as he thought of it; and he rose and walked to the window to Wide his emotion from-the keen eyes, of his felldw-smuggler-for Garnet had joined them in their roving life after leaving the judge's. :  "Well, old fellow, what do you say to it?" asked Black Bart. "I'm youir man!" exclaimed Garnet, turning from the window, all his customary cool comrn. posure restored. "We will start immediately, and keep watch until night; it is more than probable we will see her before then, and, as the judge sayS, the sooner the better.  Come along."  j Had Petionilla's lucky star set? had her good angel! deserted her? had Satan come to the asssistauce, of his earthly myrmidoms? had 4 the Fates willed it, that her pony "Starlight" should on that' eventful day cast a shoe, lame a himself, and so be unfit to ride?  Pet rambled restlessly about the house, one  minute terrifying rooks, and bats, and swallows X from their iomes in the eaves and chimneys, f by banging! away at some new polka on the r piano; the next, seizing the bellows for a part- f ner, and going waltzing round the room; the i next, rushing like a mad thing as she was, up r stairs, and then sliding down the banisters. e "For," s4id Pet, "exercise is good for the a health; and as Aunt Deb won't let me ride the m clothes-horse, I'm going to try this."   t And try it she did, till she tore the dress s nearly off her back; and then, getting tired of -o this, she determined to go over to old Barrens n Cottage, and see Erminie.         to The day was beautiful; so Pet determined to w walk. Throdwing a light muslin cape over her h shoulders, and pulling a broad straw flat down w over her eyes, the dark-eyed " heiress, beauty,  and belle," set out, singing as she went. t( Somehow. since the return of Ray, Pet had w   s visited the cottage much less frequently than ;t usual, and in all probability would not have - gone now, only she knew he had gone to Judes- town that morning and was not expected back until the next day. Pet saw that he shunned and - avoided her; anrd no matter how easy and natur- , al he had been a moment before, the instant she - entered lie wrapped himself in his very coldest mantle of reserve, and looked more like a ban- rished prince than a common Christian.  Pet e saw this; and her own heart, as proud as his in f another way, swelled with wounded feeling and indignation ; and she inwardly vowed to let him t see that she cared just as little for him as he could possibly care for her. Poor Pet! this con, * vietion and resolution cost her the first bitter tears she had ever shed in her whole sunshiny life; but as she felt them falling warm and fast, she sprang quickly up, dashed them indignant. ly away, as if ashamed to own even to her own heart how much she cared for him. *No; he shall never know that I cared two pins about him!" exclaimed Pet, with flashing eyes and flushing cheeks. "He dislikes me; I can see that plainly enough; and if he was a prince of the blood'royal, 1 would not stoop to sue for his favor. I don't care for him ; I won't care for him. I just hate him-a stiff, haughty, young Turk-there now!" And then, having-relieved her mind by a "real good cry," Pet got up and whistled to her dogs, and set off for a scamper round the yard, to the great detriment of her gaiters, and the alarming increase of her appetite. Pet wasn't sentimental; so she neither took to sigh- ing, nor star-gazing, nor writing poetry; butI pursued the even, or rather uneven, tenor of her way, and inwardly vowed that, " if nobody cared for her, she would care for nobody." Little did Pet know the' real cause of Ray's avoidance. .High-spirited and proud, almost morbid in his pride at times, and loving this dazzling, sparkling vision of beauty and bright- ness more and more every time lie saw her, ie felt it his duty to shun her as much as possible. To know this starry-eyed, dazzling, dancing fay without loving her, was a simple impossibil- ity; and Ray Germaine, with his passionate ad- miration of beauty, and fiery gipsy blood, lov- ed her with an intensity that only hot, passion- ate, Southern nature like his can feel. -And with this mad love was the certain conviction that he might as well love a " bright, -particular star," and hope to win it, as the wealthy heiress of Judge Lawless, who was soon destined to make her debut in the gilded salons of Washing- ton City, where all the lions of the capital would soon be in adoration at her feet. And he-what was he? The grandson of a gipsy woman, educated by the bounty of a stranger. What was he that he should dare to lift his eyes to this peerless beauty and belle? Proud, as we have said he was, to excess, he shunned and   avoided her for whom he would have given up the wide world and all it contained, had lie pos- sessed it, lest in some unguarded moment lie 'should disclose to her the secret of his fierce and daily increasinr love. And in this unpleasant state matters stood on the day when Pet set out from Heath Hill to old Barrens Cottage. Pet was a good walk- er; but, owing the intense heat, she was complet' ly tired out by the 'time she reached the cottage. Erminie alone was tilere, ready to welcome her friend with her own peculiar sunshiiny smile. It was very pleasant, that cool, breezy sit- ting-room, that scorchingly hot day, with iis plaln straw matting, its cool, green, Venetian blinds, its plump, tenmpting, cushioned rock- ing-lchairs, and fragrant bouquets of flowers in glasses of pure, sparkling water. But the prettiest, pleasantest sight of all was its lovely young mistress in her simple, beautifully-fit- ting dress of blue gingham, with its snowy col- lar and little black silk apron boasting the cun- niiigest pockets in 'the world; her shiny hair floating twined'in broad damp braids round her superb little head; and where the sunshine lin- gered lovingly uDon it, seeminig like a shining glory over iher smnotth white bi-ow. Yes, it was very pleas:ant-the pretty cottage-room; the lovely cottage-maiden, and yet thie dark, bright, dazzling brunette in her glancing shot silk, with her flasling jetty curls, her lustrous, splendid, Syrian eyes of midnight blackness; her whole vivacious, restless, glittering, en. ' trancing face and fi rm lost nothing by contrast -could lose ntlthing by contrast with any-one in the world, "Well, I declare, Ermie, I don't know any place in the wide world half as cool and pleas- ] ant as tins cottage of yours. Now, at Heatih  Hill it's enrough to roast an African. Good- a ness! how hot I am!" said Pet, commencing i to fan herself vigorously, "T The sea-breeze makes this cool," 'said Er- t minie; ", that is the reason. I am so glad vou m came over this afternoon, for, Ray, you know, is a not coming home to-night. It is really too bad, I think, that he should leave us and go i back again to that tiresome New York so o soon." ".Ah! when is ie going?" said Pet, still vio- h lently fanning herselft though her bright bloom s of color was far less vivid than it had been- a tl moment before.                i "The day after to-morrow, he says; and not a to return for perrhaps a year. I will feel dread- n fully lonesome, I know, and grandmother will fo miss him  so much. But young men are so p headstrong and self-willed that there is no do- ing anyvtl1ing with them- don't you think so, 81 Pet?" said Erminie, smiling.   "  Never thought on the subject as I know of; la but I dare say they are. They're not to be   ip I blamed for it, though; it runs in man's wretch. s- ed nature. Ah I I never was properly thankful le for not being a man, till one day I went atid ce dressed myself in a suit of their clothes. Such wretchedly feeling things as they were, to be ,d sure! I'e never been in the stocks, or the "pillory, or stretched on a rack, or walking k- through a treadmill, or any of those other disa- s greeable things; but ever since then I've had d a pretty good notion of what they must be like. y It was a regular martyrdom while I had them r, on, and how the mischief anybody ever can sur- vive in them is more than I know. Thnk of - descending to posterity in a pair of pants!" 8  Erminie laughed, and Pet rattled on till tea 1 was ready. Then they drank Lucy's fragrant :- black tea, and ate her delicate nice waffles, Iand praise d her jam; and then, when the sun had long set, and the dark, cool, evening shadows began to fall, PAt got up, put on her hat, -kissed Erminie, and set out on her return to * Health Hill. -r "You ought to have told some of the serv- rants to come for you," said Erminie. "It is rather far for you to go alone." "t Oh, there is no danger," said Pet ; "on the forest-road and the shore there may be- but here on the heath all is safe enough. Good night." And Pet started off at a brisk walk. Two men, crouching behind a clump of stunted spruce bushes, were watching her with lynx eyes as her slight, graceful form approach- ed. It was not quite dark, but what Ihe Scotch call " the gloaming," and the bright draped fig- ure was plainly conspicuous on the brown, bare heatih. "I There she comes at last," whispered the younger oft lie two, in a quick fierce tone, breath- ing hotly and quickly while lie spoke; " I will spring out 'as she passes, and throw this shawl 'over her head while you tie her hands and feet." "All right," said the other in the same low tone. "Jupiter! how she goes it! Can't she walk Spanish, though! I tell you, Garnet, she's a regular stunner, ind no mistake." The other made no reply. His lurid, burn- ing eyes w're fixed on the dark, brilliant face of Petronilla. All unconscious she passed on. Scarcely had shle done so when, with the quick, noiseless spring of a panther, Garnet-darted from behind. the bushes and flung a large plaid over the head of Pet, and grasped her firmly in his arms. With equal agility the other followed; and Pet was securely bound hand and foot be- fore she had sufficiently recovered from her sur- prise to make the slightest struggle. "Mine I Mine! at last!" whsperedi a voice she knew too well, as his arms enfolded hier in a fierce embrace. "Beautiful eaglet, caged at last!" In vain she struggled-in vain she strove to     cry out for help. Feet and hands were secure- ly bound; the heavy shawl was half smothering her, andt her captor's arms held her like a vice. "Now for the cave! On! on!" there's no time to lose!" cried Garnet, with fierce impa tience, starting forward as though he were car- tying an, infant over the heath. CHAPTER XXXI. THE OUTLAW'S WIFE. "That minute, from my soul the light O0 heaven and love both passed away, And I forgot my home, my birth, Profaned my spirit, sunk my brow, And revel'd in gross joys of earth, I Till I became-what I am now."-MOORE. For so ne moments, Pet continued to struggle violently but finding all her efforts vain-worse than vain -and being half-suffocated for want of air, slWe fell back in her captor's arms, and lay perfectly still and quiet. In that dreadful moment, she lost not one par- ticle of her customary self-possession. She re- alized all her danger and peril vividly. She knew she1 was completely in the power of her worst enemy, and beyond all hope of extricating herself. 1er whole appalling danger burst upon her at onde; and though for one instant her very heart seeded to cease its beating, she neither fainted ndr gave herself up to useless tears or hysterics,. according to the usual custom of young ladies, when in real or imaginary danger. Not she,: indeed! Pet's thoughts, as she- lay quietly in her captive's arms, ran somewhat after the following fashion: "Well,I Pet, child, you've went and put your foot in it beautifully, haven't you? Ain't you ashamned of yourself, to let Rozzel Garnet catch yo(, and lug you along like this? I won- der where they're going to bring me to, anyway, and what they are going to do with. me next. Oh! wont there be weeping and gnashing of teeth, and pulling off of' wigs at home when they find I've gone, vanislied,'evaporated, made myself 'thin air,' and no clue to my wherea- bouts to by found? Phew! this villainous shawl is fairly smnothering me. I wish I could slip it off for about five minutes; and the way I'd yell would slightly astonish Mr. Garnet. I suppose papa will have flaming posters stuck up all around Jtdestown, in every color of the rain- bow. I fancy I'm reading one of them: ' Lost, strayed, 'tolen, or run off with some deluded young main, a small brown, yellow, and black girl, not fiuite right in her head, wearing a r,d- and-grecn silk dress, with black eyes, a pair of gaitcr'.bo ts, and black hair. Any person or persons gik ing information concerning the above will be liberally rewarded with from five to ten cents, anl possess the everlasting gratitude of -the comrninity generally.' That's it! I won- der where they're taking me to? We're down   on the beach now; for I can hear the waves on the shore. Good gracious! If they should carry me off to sea, the matter would be sea- rious. 'Pon my word and honor! if I ever get out of this scrape, if I don't make Mr. Rozzel Garnet mind what lie's up to, then my name's not Pet-Ur-r-r! I'm strangling, I declare. Suffocation must be a pleasant death, if I may judge by this specimen!" While Pet was thus cogitating, Rozzel Garnet and his companion were rapidly striding over the wet, slippery beach. A being more perfect- ly guileless than Pet, in some ways, never ex- isted, and this may in some measure account for the light manner in which she treated her cap- tivity. Saucy, spirited, daring, full of exuber- ant life, fun, freedom, and frolic, she was; but, withal, in some matters her simplicity was per- fectly wonderful. For instance, she knew now she was a prisoner; she fancied she might be taken off somewhere, or held captive for a while. But she had the most perfect faith in her own wit, cunning, and courage, to ultimately escape. She feared no worse fate; she knew of none; she never even dreamed of any. Slhe knew Rozzel Garnet pretended to love her-might urge her again to marry him; but that gave her not the slightest uneasiness in the world. 'In fact, Pet's love of adventure made her almost like this scrape she had got into. It would be something to talk about for the rest of her life ; it made her quite a heroine, this being carried off; it was really like something she had so often read of in novels, or like a tragedy in a play. With these sentiments, Pet lay quite still, lis- tening intently, and wondering what was to come next. It seemed to her they must have walked nearly half an hour, when they came to a dead halt, and she heard Rozzel Garnet say: "Now, Bart, give the signal quick!" A low,'shrill, peculiar whistle followed; and then Pet, whose ears would have run themselves into points to hear the' better, if she could, heard a rustling, as if of bushes pushed aside; a heavy sound, as if of rocks removing; and then Garnet, gathering her tighter in his hated embrace, stooped down, and passed through something which she knew must be a narrow aperture, and thence, carefully guiding himself with one. hand, while he held her with the other, he descended a short flight of steps. Then he paused, and, to the great relief our half-stifled heroine, removed the thick shawl in which he had enveloped hier., Pet's first use of her breath was, to burst out angrily with: "Well, it's a wonder you took the blamed thing off until you choked ine dead! You ought to be ashamed of ourself, Mr. Garnet, saoth- ering a young lady this way, in a big blanket like that. I wish you'd let me go. I don't want to be carried like a baby any longer."  "Not so fast, pretty one," said Garnet, in a   low tone of mocking exultation. "Be in no haste to quit these arms, for they are to be your home for the future." "Humph! a pretty home they would be!" said Pet, contemptuously. "You'll have to consult me about that, Mr. Rozzel Garnet, Let me go, I tell you! I want to walk. A body might as well let a bear carry them as you!" "As you- please, my pretty lady-love!" said Garnet. "I do not think you will escape so easily this time as you did the last. That was your hour of victory: this is mine. Then, you said neither earth, air, fire, nor water, could hold you. Perhaps stout walls of rock can!" "Don't be too sure, Mr. Garnet.' There is such a thing as blowing up rocks, or an earthquake might happen, or the sea might overflow, or you and all your brothers in villainy might get par- alytic strokes, or Satan might come and carry off the whole of you bodily to your future home. I'm sure I wish he would. You'll be an orna- ment to it when you get theie-a ' burning and shning light,' in every sense of the word. Ain't you proud of yourself to have carried off a little girl so beautifully? When you found you couldn't do it alone, you got another to help you; and so you bravely won the battle. Two great, big men to cary off one little girl! What an achievement!* What a victory! You ought to have a leather medal and a service of tin plate presented to each of you! Oh my!" said Pet, in tones of withering irony. Had it not been pitch dark where they stood, Pet would have seen his sallow face blanch with anger; but subduing his rage in the comforting thought that this lttle, doubled-refined essence of auldacity was completely in his power, lihe smiled an evil and most sinister smile, and re- plied: "Jet, flash, and sparkle, little grenade! Dart fire, little stiletto, but you can do no more! Snarl and show your white teeth, little kitten; but your claws are shielded-you cannot bite now. Expand your wings, my bright little humming-bird; but you will find them clipped. Try to soar to your native heaven, my dazzling, glorious bird of paradise; and your drooping plumes will fall, fluttering and earth-stained, to the dust." "Well, that all sounds mighty fine, Mr. Gar- net, and is a grand flourish of rhetoric on your part. I make no doubt but you'll excuse me if I don't understand a single blessed word of it. You're a' schoolmaster, and, of course, ought to understand what's proper; but your grand tropes and figures of speech are all a waste of pow- der and shot when addressed to me. Just talk in plain English, and don't keep on calling me names, and I'll feel greatly obliged. What a grenade and all them other things are, I haven't the remotest idea; but I expect they're some, thing dreadful bad, or you wouldn't keep call- ing me them. It's real impolite in you to talk    so; and I wonder you ain't ashamed of yourself, Rozzel Garnet!" "So you don't understand, Miss Lawless?" he said, slowly, and with the same evil smile. "Shall I tell you in plainer words my mean- ing?" "No, you needn't bother yourself," said Pet, shortly. "d The less you say to me the better I'll like it. I am not in the habit of talking to the offcasts of society, such as you are, Mr. Gar- net; and, like frog-soup, though it does well enough for a time, one doesn't like it as a con- stapt thing." "Here, push on! push on!" said the gruff voice of Black Bart behind them. "No use standing palavering here all night. Get along, Rozzy boy, and taking this little snapping-tur- tle along with you. Up with the glim, Jack, till ma'm'selle sees where she's going." All this time. they had been wrapped in the blackness of Tartarus, but now the two men descended the stone steps, and one of them, holding up a dark-lantern, let its rays stream around. Pet curiously cast her eyes alout, and saw she was in a narrow, rocky passage, with her head not more than an inch from the top. How far it led she could not tell, for the rays of light penetrated but a few feet, and be- yond that stretched a black, yawning chasm that might hlave been the entrance into Pande- monium itself. "Now, in we goes," said Black Bart, giving Pet a slight push forward. "Go first, Rozzy lad, and shoXw little mustard-seed, here, the way. Jack and I will keep in your wake." "Mustard-seed and snapping-turtle," mutter- ed Pet, as she, prepared to follow Garnet. "Pet, my denr, you will have as many aliases, before long, as the most notorious blackleg from here to the Canibal Islands. Well, if I'm not in a fix to-night! What will they say, at home?" As they went on the passage grew wider and wider, and broader and broader, until at last Pet found herself in a spacious rock bound apart- ment, well-lighted, rudely-furnished, and occu- pied by some half-dozen rough, hard-looking men in the garb of sailors. They were lying in various attitudes about the floor, with the exception of two, who sat at a rough deal-table playing cards. They turned their eyes carelessly enough as Rozzel Garnet entered; but as their eyes fell upon Pet, each man sprang to his feet, and stared at her in undisguised wonder. There she stood, in the full glare of the light; her slender, girlish form drawn up to its full height; he r brilliant silk dress flashing and glit- tering in the light; her short, dancing, flashing curls of jet falling around her crimson cheeks; her bright, undaunted black eyes wide open, and returning every stare as composedly as though she were sitting in her father's hall, and     these men were her servants. Very much ot of place looked Pet, in her rich, sheeny robes and dazzling beauty, amidst those roughiy-clad, savage-looking men, and in that dismal under ground apdsrtment. "Where is she?" asked ozzel Garnet, - heeding their blank stare of surprise. "Who?--the misses?" asked one of the mn without renoving his eyes from Pet. "Yes-o-f course." The mar pointed to the remote'end of the room; and Pet, turning her eyes in that direc tion, saw at sort of opening in the wall, servin evidently for a door, and covered by a screen  thick dark baize. Garnet jeut toward it and called: "Madamp Marguerite." "Well," [said a woman's voice from within With astrorig foreign accent. "Can I se you a moment, on business?" "Yes-eater."  And Pet saw a small, deli- cate-looking hand push aside the screen, and Garnet disappeared Within.  "Here, little nettle, sit down," said Black Bart, ptslhiig a stool to ward Pet, gallantly, with  his foot. "hIow do you like the looks of this here place, .oung woman?" "Welt," said Pet, "I should say there was no danger of tihfeves breaking im at night; aiid b the look of h!.ings, I don't expect tihey would find much foi their pains, if they did break in. There's 110 danger of itsblwndonidyO nights-is there?,  s    do   ny "Well. noI reckon there isn't" said Black  Bart, with at grin, "seeing it's' ri l.. a ,deBla ill, aied notling but solid rocks aove and be-  low.               ' "  "A strong foundation, Said Pet"3 "like the true Church, lit's built on a rook. I should think it would be dnp though,  en the tide*  rses and fills it; and as I am subject to rheum- atisn, "  , "No dangdi'," said Dart. "I'll risk your t drowning. there. Garnet's calling you. Go in there." '  s              m  Pet arose, aad Garnet, holding back the baize screen, motionecd her to enter. She obeyed, and looked curiously around. The room was smaller than the one she had left, and better fur'nished. The rocky floor was covered with I4dia mnatting, and chairs, couches, and tables were strewn' indiseriminatel, around. A bed with hlenvy curtains stood in one corneir, and a stand containing books, writing mater'ials. and drawing utensils, stood opposite. Pet gave  all these but a fleeting glance, and then her whole attentich was caught and occupied by the person wlad stood be'tween them, with one hand resting dn the back of a 9lhair, and her eyes fixed with a sort of ster, ' ....... r on Pet.'        e  It was a wonron of some five-and-thirty years of age, of middle size, and dressed in a soiled p ,    out ' and frayed black satin dress. Her face had ev- )bes idently once been very handsome, lbr it still bore lad, traces of former beauty; but now it was thin, sai- ier- low, and faded- looking still more faded, in con- trast with the unnaturally large, lustrous black un- eyes by which it was lit up, Her hair; thick and black, hung disorderedhand uncombed far en, over her shoulders, while jewels flashed from the pendants in her ears, and sparkled on the small, beautiful hands. Something in that face the moved Pet as nothing had ever done before-- ec- there was such a look of proud, sullen despair ing in the wild black eyes; a sort of fierce haughti- Ot ness in the dark, weird face; a look of passionate impatience, hidden anguish, undying woe, in the slumbering depths of those gloomy, haunting eyes, that Pet wondered who she could be, or in, what great sorrow she had ever endured. There was an air of refinement about her, too-- a lofty, commandiag hauteur, that showed she it- was queen and mistress here, and as far above d the brutal men surrounding her as heaven is above the earth.  "This is the girl, Madame Marguerite," said Garnet, respectfully. "I intrust her to your care until the captain comes."yo "Se shall be cased for. That will do," said the woman, waving her hand until all its burn- ing rubies and blazing diamonds seemed to en- circle it with sparks of fire. Garnet bowed low, cast a triumphant glance at Pet as he passed, and hissed softly in her ear: "Mine own-mine own, at last."  And then he raised the screen and disappeared. The cold, proud black eyes were filed pier- cingly on Pet; but that young lady bore it as she had done many another stare, without flinch- ing. "Sit down," said the woman, with her strong foreign intonation, pointing to a seat. Pet obeyed, saying, as she did so: "I may as well, I suppose. Am I expected to stay lhere all night " "Yes," said the woman, curtly, " and many more nights after that. You can occupy my bed; I will sleep on one of these lounges while you remain."      t   l "Well," said Pet, '"I would like to know what I am brought here for anyway. Some of Rozzel Garnet's capers, I suppose. He had bet- ter look out; for when I get free, if the gallows don't get their 'due, it won't be mny fault." "RMozzel Garnet had nothing to do with it; he was but acting for another in bringing you here." "For another!" said Pet, with the utmost surprise; ", who the mischief is it?" "That you ai'e not to know at present. When the proper time comes, that, w ith many other things, will be revealed." "So I'm like a bundle of goods, 'left till called for,"' said Pet; "now, who could have put themselves to so much unnecessary trouble   ,to have me carried off, I want to know I thought I hadn t an enemy in the world but his excellency the riglit worshipful Rozzel Garnet. It can't be  Orlando Toosypegs, surely- hum-m-m. I do wonder who it can be," said Pet, musingly. While Pet was holding converse with iher- self, the woman, Marguerite, had gone out. Pet waited for her return until, in spite of her strange situation, her eyes began to drop heavily. A little clock on a shelf struck the hour of mid- night, and still she came not. Pet was sleepy, awfully sleepy; and, rubbing her eyes and yawn- ing, she got up, and holding her eyes open with her fingers, kneeled down and said her usual night-prayers, and then jumped into bed, and fell into a sound sleep, in whichl Rozzel Garnet and Marguerite, and the underground cave, and her previous night's adventure, were one and all forgotten.  When Pet awoke she found herself alone, and the apartment lit up by a swinging lamp, exact- ly as it had been thie night before. She glaniced  at the clock and saw the 'hands pointed to half-past ten. A little round staid had leen  placed close to her bed, on which all the paraph-  ernalia of a breakfast for one was placed. On i a chair at the fo.,t of the bed was a basin and " ewer, with water, combs, brushes, and a small  looking-glass. Pet, with an appetite not at all diminished,  sprang out of bed, hastily washed her fhce and hands, brushed out her silken curls, said  her morning-prayers, and then, sitting down at the table, fell to with a zest and eagerness that  would have horrified Miss, Priscilla Toosypegs. a The coffee was excellent, the rolls incomparable,  the eggs cooked to a turn, 'and Miss Pet did s ample justice to all.  As she completed her meal, the screen was p pushed aside, and the woman Marguerite entered t "Good morning," said Pet.  The woman bent her head in a slight acknowl- ir edgment. "I suppose it's daylight outside by this time," sad Pet.   '          ' "Yes, it was daylight five hours ago," was at the reply. ,  "Well, it's pleasant to know even that. r What am I do for the rest of the day, I want to  know?" "Whatever you please."  "A wide margin; the only thing I would a please to do, if I could, would be to go out and be walk 'home. That, I suppose, is against the tl rules." "Yes; but tlhere are books. and drawing ma- d terials; you can amuse yourself with them." s "Thankee; poor amusement, but better than t none, I expect. Who is commrander here, the 8 captain I heard them speak of?"      fac "My h nusbdnd," said the woman proudly. "And where is he now? I should like to sai   I have a talk with him, and have things straight uis ened out a little, if possile." t'days He is absent, and will not be back for some - days." id  "Hum! this is, then, the hiding-place of the smugglers they make such a fuss about-eh?" r- said Pet.  et  ' Yes, they are smugglers-worse, perhaps," ge said the woman, sullenly . , A  "Tlere. I knew I'd find it, I always said so 1" d- exclaimed Pet, exultingly. "Oh! if could only y, get out! See here, I wish you would let me es- n- cape!'" ;h  The woman looked at her with her wild black al eyes for a moment, and then went on wilh her d occupation of cleaning off the table, as if she had t, not heard her. d  "Because," persisted Pet, "I'm of no use to d any one here, and they'll be anxious about me up h1ome.  They don't know i'm  out, you d k,ow." i  The woman went calmly on witlh her work d without replying; and Pet, seeing it was all a o waste of breath, pleading, got up and went over i to the shelf where the boks were in setrch o' something to read. A number of pencil-draw- "gs lay scattered about. Pet toolk them, and litltle as she knew of art, she said they had been I -sketched by a master ihadd.  "Oh, how pretty l" 6he exclaimed; "was it you drew these Y" "No; m y husband," answered the woman. "They are all fancy sketches, lie says." There was a sort of bitterness in the last words mentioned by Pet, wlho was eagerly and admiringly examininig the draw igs. One, in particular, struck her ; it represeted a large, shaedowy church, blried in lmlglcd lights al d shades, that gave a gloomy, specitral, weird ap- pearance to the BCene. At tLhe upper enl{, ",ear the grand altar, stood a *oulh and ia miaile, while near stood a white-rol ed clergyman, book in hLand. A dying bird seemed fluLteriLng over thleir heads, and ready to drop at their feet. The face of the youth coulld not be seen, but the lovely, childlike iface of the girl was the chief attraction of the drawing. JIs look of unuttera- ble love, mingled with a strange, nameless ter- ror; its rare loveliness, aid the passionate worship in the eyes uplturned to him who stood beside hler, sent a strange thrill to the very leart of Pet. A vague idea that she had seen a lace bearing a shadowy resemblance. to the beautiful one in the licture somewhere before, struck her. The face was familiar, just as those we see in dreams are; but whether she had dreamed of one like this, or had really seen it, she could uot tell. She gazed and gazed; and the longer she gazed, the surer sheli was tlhat sti, had really and certainly seen, if not that face, some one very like it, before. "Can you tell me if this is a fancy sketch," said Pet, holding it uip.     "My husband says so-why?" asked the woman, fixing her eyes with a keen, suspicious glance on Pet. "Oh, nlothing; only it seems to me as if I had seen jhat face before. It is very strange; T cannot recollect when or where; but I know I have seen it." "You only imagine so." . "No, I [don't; Inever imagine anything. Oh, here's an'other; what a pretty child! why- why, she looks like you!" It repr sented a beautiful, dark little girl, a mere infait, but resplendently beautiful. "She Was my child," said the woman, in a low, hard; despairing voice, as she looked straight before her. "And where is she?" asked Pet, softly. "I, donat know-dead, I expect," said the woman, in that same tone of deep, steady de- spair, far sadder than any tears or wild sobs could- have been. Pet's eyes sufiened with deep sympathy; and coming ov r, she said, earnestly: ' I am so sorry for you. 4ow long is it since she died?" "It is seven years since we lost her; she was two years old, then. I do not know whether she is living or dead. O Rita! .Rita!"-cried the woman, passionately, while her whole frame shook withi the violence of emotion. -No tear fell, no sob shook her breast, but words can never describe the utter agony of that despairing cry. There wiere tears in Pet's eyes, now-in those flashing, mocking, defying eyes; and in silent sympathy She took the woman's hand in her own little brown fingers, and softly began caress- ing it.   "It was in London we lost her-in the great, vast city of London. I was out with her, one day, and sDeing a vast crowd at the corner of the street, : went over, holding my little Mar- guerite by lie hand, to see what was the mat- ter. The crowd increased; we were wedged in, and could not extricate 'urselves. Suddenly some one Eave her a pull; her little hand re- laxed its hold; I heard her cry out; and, shriek- ing madly, I burst from the crowd in search of her; but he was gone. I rushed shrieking through th4 streets until they arrested me as a lunatic, and carried me off. For a long, long time after, remember nothing. My husband found me out, and took charge of me ; but we never heard of our child after that. I nearly went mad.. I was mad for a time.; but it has l passed. Since that day, we never heard of Ri- i ta. I heard them say that she was stolen for her extraordinary beauty; but, living or dead, I I feel she is forever lost to me-forever lost- - forever lost?I'  She struck her bosom with her hand, and : rocked back and forward, while her wild black A1 eyes gazed steadily before her 'with that same ( rigid look or changeless despair.     3   "I loved her better than any thing in earth or heaven, except her father-my heart was wrapped up in hers-she was the dearest part of myself; and, since I lost her, life has been a inockery-worse than a mockery to me. Girl," she said, looking up. suddenly and fiercely, "never love! Try to escape woman's doom of loving and losing, and of living on when death is ,the greatest blessing God can send you. Nev- er love! Tear your heart out and throw it in the flames sooner than love and live to know your golden idol is an image of worthless clay. Girl, remember!" and she sprang to her feet, her eyes blazing with a maniac light, and grasp- ed Pet so fiercely by the arm that she was forc- ed to stifle a cry of pain, " never love - never love! Take a dagger and send your soul to eternity sooner!" She flung Pet from her with a violence that -sent her reeling against the wall, and darted from the room. CHAPTER XXXII. THE OUTLAW. "He knew himself a villain, but he deemed The rest no better than the thing he seemed; And scorned the best as hypocrites, who hid, Those deeds the bolder spirit plainly did. He knew himself detested, but he knew The hearts that Lbathed him crouched and dreaded, too.         c Lone, wild, and strange he stood, alike exempt From all affection and from all contempt." -BYRoN." That first day of her imprisonment seemed endless to Pet. She yawned over her books, and dozed over the drawings, and fell asleep, won- deriing what they were doing at home, and when they would come in search of her; and dream- ed she was creeping through some hole in the wall, making her escape, and awoke to find her- self crawling on all fours between the legs of the-table. It was the longest, dreariest day Pet had ever known. The woman Marguerite did not make her appearance again, and Pet's meals were served by a bright, bold-eyed lad, whom slhe plied with some fifty questions or so in a breath; but as the boy was a Spaniard, and did not speak nor understand a word of English, Miss Lawless did not gain much by this. As there was no means of telling day from night, Pet would have thought a week had elapsed but for the little clock that so slowly and provokingly pointed out the lagging hours. "This being taken captive and carried off to a romantic dungeon by a lot of bearded outlaws is not what it's cracked up to be, after all," said Pet, gaping fit to strain her jaws. "It's all very nice td read about in story-books, and see at the theatre; but in real life, come to look at it, it's the mnost horridly-slow affair ever was. Now, when I :iied to read about the lovely ptincess being-carried off by the fiery dragon (by the way, I'd like to see a iery dragon-I aever did see one yet), I used to wish I had been   in her place; but I know better now. She must have had a horrid stupid time of it in that enchanted castle, until that nice young man, the prince, came, and carried her off. Heigho! What a pity I have no prince to come for me I Wonder if Ray Germaine's gone yet - but there! I don't care whether he is or not. He does not care two pins whether he ever sees me again or not. Nobody cares about me, and I'm nothing but a poor, abused, diabolical little wretch. Q yaw-w-w! Lor'! how sleepy I am! I do wish somebody would come and talk to me: even Rozzel Garnet, or that man with all the black whiskers, whlo was impolite enough to call me names, or that wild, odd-looking outlaw queen-anybody would be better than none. I'll blue-mould-I'll run to seed-I'll turn to dust and ashes, if I'm kept here much longer; I know I will!" And, yawning repeatedly, Pet pitched her book impatiently ac'ross the room; and, stretch- ing herself on a lounge, in five minutes was sound asleep. The clock, striking ten, awoke her. She rubbed her eyes and looked drowsily up; and the first object on which her eyes rested was the motionless form of Rozzel Garnet, as he stood near, with folded arms, gazing down upon her, with his usual sinister smile. "Oh! you're here-are you?" said Pet, com- posedly, after her first prolonged stare. "I must say, it shows a great deal of delicacy and politeness on your part to enter a young, lady's sleepipg-apartment after this fashion. What new mischief has your patron saint with the the cloven foot put you up to now? "Saucy as ever, little wasp! You should be careful how you talk now, -knowing you are in my power." - "Should I, indeed I Don't you think you see me afraid of you, Mr. Garnet? Just fancy me, with my finger in my mouth and my eyes cast down, trembling before any man, much less you I Ha, ha, la! Don't you hope you may live to see it?" "It is in my power to make you afraid of' me! You are here a captive, beyond all hope of escape-mind, beyond the power of heaven and earth to free you. Say, then, beautiful dragon-fly, radiant little fay, low are you to defy me? Your hour of triumph has passed, though you seem not to know it. You have queened it right royally long enough My turn has come at Jast. I have conquered the con- queress, caged the eaglet, tamed the wild queen of the kelpies, won the most beautiful, enchant- ing, intoxicating fairy that ever inflamed the heart or set on fire thie brain of, man." "Yes-boast!" said Pet, getting up and com- posedly beginning to twine her curls over her fingers. "' But self-praise is no recommendation. If by all those names you mean me, let me tell you not to be too sure even yet. It's not right   to cheer until you are out of the woods, you know, Mr. Garnet; and really, you're not duch a lady-killer, after all, as-you think yourself. You can't hold fire without burning your fin- gers, Mr. Garnet, as you'll find, if you attempt any nonsense with me. So, your lonor's wor- ship, the best thing you can do is, to go off to your boon companions, and mind your own business for the future, and leave me to finish my nap." "Sorry to refuse your polite request, Miss Lawless," he said, with a sneer; , "but, really, I cannot leave you to solitude and loneliness, this way. As I have a number of things to talk over with you, and as you have forgotten to ask me to sit down, I think I will just avail myself of a friend's privilege, and take a seat myself." And very nonchalantly the gentleman seated himself beside her on the lounge. Pet sprang up with a rebound, as if she were a ball of India- rubber, or had steel springs in her feet, and con- fronted him wilti blazing cheeks and flashing eyes. "You hateful, disagreeable, yellow old ogre!" she burst out with ; " keep the sent to yourself, then, if you want it, but don't dare, to come near me again! Don't dare, I say!"And she stamp- ed her foot passionately, like the little tempest that she was. "It's dangerous work playing with -chain-lightning, Mr. Rozzel Garnet; so be warn- ed in time. I vow to Sam! if I had a broom- stick handy, I'd let you know what it is to put a respectable young woman in a rage. Youp sit beside me, indeed! Faugh! there is pollution in the very air you breathe!" He turned, for an instant, livid with anger; but to lose his temper was not his role, now, and so gulping down the little draught of her irritating words as best he might, he said: "'Ay! rave, and storm, and flash fire, my lit- tle tornado; but it will avail you nothing. You but beat the air with your breath, though, real- ly, I do not know as it is useless, either, for you look so dazzlingly beautiful in your roused wrath, my dear inflammation of the heart, that you make me love you twice as much ,s ever." "  You love me, indeed!" said Pet, contemp- tuously ; "I don't see what awful crime any of my forefathers have ever done, that I'm com- pelled to stand up here, like patience on a monument, and listen to such stuff as that. I won't listen to it! I'll go and call that woman, I declare I will, and make her pack you off with a flea in your ear." "Not so fast, my pretty one," said Garnet, with his usual cold smile, as he put out his long arms and caught hold of Pet; "Madame Mar- guerite has gone away, and may not be back to- night. The men have all gone, too, but one, and le is lying under the table out there, dead drunk. How now, my little flame of fire? Does this danp your high courage any?"    \ For the first time, the conviction that she     was completely in his power thrilled through the heart of Pet, making hler, for one moment almost dizzy with nameless apprehension. Bu thile mocking, exulting eyes of his everywhere bent taunIingly upon her, and the high spiri of the brave girl flished indignantly up; and fixing heri flaslJing black eyes-full on his face, she aniswered boldly: "No, itdoesn't  Damp my courage, for- sooth I D you really suppose I am afraid of you, Rozzl 'Garnat t? of you, the most arrant white-liverod coward God ever afflicted thie earth with I Ila I Ih! why if you think so, you are  greater fo.,thtan even I ever took you to be." His teeti closed with a spasmodic snap ; h half rose, id his fiere rae, to his feet, as he hissed:        '.I a, t Giril, take care! tempt me not too far, lest Imike you . feel what it 'is to taunt me beyond enduranceo l"m           eo Barkinga dogs seldom, bite, Mr. Garnet; little ' snarling ca never." 'By hiIeen, girl! I will strangle you if you do not stop!!" he shouted, springing "fiercel' to' his fetfiercely              i She, took on-e step- back, laid her hand ona  ca rvingknif tt had been on the tables{ic dinnor-i{me, and looked up ia his f e with a deridina smie. Ibt spite Of himself her dauntless spirit and  bold daring struck him withx admiration. He  looked at hr for a moment, inwardly wonder.- ingr that so b  v'avend fierce 'a spirit could existir in a totrb so slighl!t and frail, Paul then, with a long bre6th, 1e sank back into his seat. ' "That's riklt, Mr. Giraet; I see you have not lost all your reason yet," sai pet, quietly;  "if vou val, a whole skin, it will be wise for i you o k   eep te length of the room betrveen' us. th Idaon't threatn mluch, but I'm apt to act when i aroused."                  * "iss Lawessforgive my hasty temper.  did not comen to threaten you, to-igi ht.,but to setyou at libot, said Garnet, kin enitent.  "Iumph. Iset me at liberty! I have my doubts abou; Ithat," said Pet, transfixing himu with a long, uawinking stare.  "N     n1  7^16a     fr- . . Nevertlelss, it is true. To-night they are all gone-we 4re all alone; say but the wyorde, and in ten otlnutes you will 1o as free as the winds of heav In." "Worse aM worse! Mr. Garnet, just look me in the eyel, will you, and see if you can dis- cover arty sriall mill-stones there? Do you really think I'm greeit enough to belie  Y now?1" now?"          egve you, "Miss Lawless, I swear to you I speak the truth. In ten minutes you may leave this, free and unfetterer4,1, if you will." "Well, I declare!  Just let me catch my breath after thirt, will you? Mr. Garnet, I have heard of Satit turning saint, but I never ex- perienced it b fore. So you'll set me free, will,   ugh you! Well, I'm sure I feel dreadfully obliged' ent, to you, though I dont know as I need to, since But but only for you I wouldn't be here at all. I'm iere quite willing to go, though, and am ready to irit start at any moment." a Ind,  "Wait one 'instant, Miss Petronilla. I will 4ce, set you free, but on one condition." !"Ahll 11 thought so! I was just thinking so, for- all along'! And what might that condition be, i      ofg,i  is that condition be, I of i a body may ask?" inquired Pet.  nat, "That you become my wife" ' rth d"Phew-w-w!  Great guns and little ones! abombshells and hurricanes! Fire, murder, and perdition generally'! Your wife! O ye gods he and little fishes! Hold me, somebody, or I'll ie go into the high-strikes."   ,  "Girl, do you mock me?" passionately ex. st claimed a arnet, springing to his feet. Iad "ir. Garnet, my dear sir, take things easy. ,It's the worst thing in the world, for the consti- le tution and by-laws, flaring 'up in this manner. It might produce a rush of brains to the head, u that would be the death of you. if from nthing to' but the very novelty of hiaving them there. Sh-sh I now; I see you are going .to burst out a with something naughty; but don't-youreally emusn't speak of your kind friend anJ patron with the tail and horns, to ears polite. Mock you! St. Judas Iscariot forbid! I trust I have too much, respect for your high and mighty majesty, to do anything, so impolite. Sit down, Mr. Garnet, and make your unhappy soul as miserable as circumstances will allow. No, inow' that I've eased my mind, I'd' rather not get married just at present, thank you. I intend to tace the black vail some of these long-come. shorts, if I may be allowed so strong an expres- sion, and second-hand nuns are not so nice as they might be. No, Mr. Garnet, I'm exceed. ingly obliged for your very flattering offer; but I really must decline the high honor of sharing your hand, heart, and toothbrush," said Pet, with a profound courtesy. "'And by 'all the fiends in flames, minion, you shall not decline it!" shouted Garnet, mad- ened by her indescribably taunting tone. my  the heavenor  above us you -shall either be my wife or--" "Well," said Pet, sitting down at the table, resting her elbows upon it, dropping her chin in her hands, and staring at him as only she could stare; " what?. Why don't you go on? I never like to have a burst of eloquence like that snapped short off in the middle like the stem of a pipe ; it spoils the effect" "hen, mad girl, you  shall either be my wife, or share a worse fte" a  "Well, Mr Garnet, I don't like to contra- diect you; but if there can be a worse fate than to have anything to do with you. I'd like to know it-that's al         li."  "Then you will not consent?" he said, glar. ing on her like a tiger.   "'Mr. Garnet, for goodness' sake don't makel such an old goose of yourself, asking silly ques- tions " said Pet, yawning. "I wish you would go! I'm sleepy, and you look just now so much like a shanghai rooster with the jaundice, that you'll give ime the nightmare if you don't clear out. Mr. Garnet, I don't want to be personal, but even the nicest young men get tiresome af- ter a while."  "Petronilla Lawless, take care! Have you no fear?" "Well, no, I can't say that I have; at least, I don't stanid very much in awe of you, you know? I expect I ought to, but I don't. It's not my fault, for I can't help it." "Then, since fair means will not do, some- thing else must!" exclaimed Garnet, making a spring toward her, while his eyes were blazing with a terrible light. But Pet was as quick as himself, and, seizing her formidable weapon she darted back, and flourished it triumphant- ly, exclaiming:  "Now for a game of hide-and-go-seek. Catch me if you can, Mr. Garnet; but if you have any consideration for this clean floor, keep a respectful distance. Blood-stains are not the easiest removed in the world, especially such bad blood as yours; and this long knife and a willing hand can make an ugly wound." She had him at bay again. There was a fierce red, dangerous light in her flaming eyes, now; and a look of deep, steady determination in the dark, wild little face. Rozzel Garnet percepti- bly cooled down for a moment; but then, as if maddetted by her taunting, deriding smile, he bounded toward her with the fearful spring of a wild beast, and had her in his arms before slihe could elude his grasp. But the bright-winged little wasp had its sting yet. Up flew the blue glittering knife, down it descended; with all the force of her small arm; but her aimn was not sure, and it lodged in his shoulder. With an awful oath, he seized her hands in his vice-like grip, and with his other pulled out the knife. The wound was not deep, yet the blood spurted up as he pulled it out, in his very face.                    r The sight seemed to rouse him to madness; and Pet writhed with -pain in his fierce grasp.  She felt herself fainting. A dreadful weakness  was stealing through her frame; when, as if  sent by Meaven, a quick, heavy step was heard t without, and then a commanding voice calling: "Hallo, Garnet! where are you?"      t With a fierce imprecation of rage, the baffled  villain hurled the nearly-swooning girl from tl him, and turned to leave the room, hissing in at her ear:                  di "Foiled again! But you are still in my t power. By Heaven and all its hosts, I will yet I have my revenge l" Pet dropped into a seat, and, feeling sick and   :e' giddy, bowed her head on her hands. Never s-, in her life before had she so fully realized her d own weakness.  What would' all her boasted h strength have availed her but for that heavenly it interposition? A moment ago, and site was as ir a child in the grasp of a giant. What an es- I, cape she had had I How she blessed, in her heart, he, whoever it might have been, who had saved her! u Pet's emotions, no matter of what nature, never lasted long. Ten minutes now sufficed to t, make "Richard himself again"; and with a short u but fervent prayer of thaniksgiving, she sat up, s drew a long breath of unspeakable relief, and began looking ruefully at lher wrists, all black - and blue from his iron pressure. "Natural bracelets!" said Pet, with a slight grimace of pain.  "' Jet and azure. I can't say I approve of such violent love-making; it's , unpleasant and excites one-rather! However ' the course of true love never did run smooth,' according to that nice man, Mr. Shakespeare; though I hope it isn't always as rough as the severe course I underwent just now.  Good gracious! What a tiger I have raised in that quondam tutor of mine! Pretty instructor for youth he was, to be sure! But lo I the curtain rises! What is to be the next scene, I wonder 2" As she spoke, the curtain was pushed aside, and a new actor appeared. Hlie walked over to the opposite side of the room, and leaning his elbow on a sort of mantel, gazed with a look of careless curiosity on Pet. From the moment that young lady laid her black eyes upon him, sie 'gave a violett start, and looked at him in utter amaze. For, save the disparity in thleir years, and a certain devil- may-care recklessness that this man had, she saw before her the loving image of Ray Ger- maine! Thd new-comer was a man apparently about forty years of age, with the bold, handsome features, the flashing black eyes, and raven hair of Ray Germaine. His face was bronzed by sun and wind many shades darker than that of his young prototype ; and in his coarse sailor's garb he looked the very beau ideal of a bold, reckless buccaneer. And yet, withal, he bore about him the same air of refinement Pet had noticed in the woman Marguerite, as if both had originally belonged to afar different grade of society than the branded outlaws to whom they now were joined. But that likeness-that wonderful resemblance to Ray ,Germaine-it completely upset Miss Lawless' admirable nonchalance, as nothing in the world had ever done before. There she sat and stared, unable to remove her eyes from the dark, browned, handsome face that was turned toward her with a look half careless, half ad- miring, and wholly amused. The man was the first to break the silence. You are the young lady they'brought hero     last night, I presume?" he said, watching her curiously. His voice, too, was like Ray's, and bespoke him, eve' if nothing else had done so, above his calling -being those low, modulated tones that can Dnly be educated into a man. Pet did not reply. She did not heat him; in fact, being still lo-t ih digesting her surprise at this asto lnding resemblance. He watched her for a molnent, as if waiting for an answer, and then a s mile broke over his face. Pushing back his thicki clustering, raven hair, he said: "Yes, look at me well, young lady. I pre- sume yo4 never saw an outlaw with a price upon his head before. Is it to curiosity alone, or is it to some concealed deforumity, that I am indebted for that piercing scrutiny?" Pet wah aroused now, and reddened slightly at his w(rds and look. Then her old impu- dence camre back, and she answered quietly: "No, yjou're not the only outlaw with a price upon lhis lhead I have ever seen. I have just had the honor of holding an interview with one; tliohgh, really, I don't think his head is worth a price above ten cents, if that. I sup- pose I hare the sublime happiness of beholding his mightiness, the commander-in-chief of all the smugglers?" "Even so! I have returned, you perceive, sooner thn was expected; in fact, solely upon your accuount. I heard you were here, and came to see you." i"Ineed I Well, T hope you like me?" said Pet, pertl$r. "Most decidedly," said the outlaw, passing his hand caressingly over' his whiskers; "laso much, in fact, that if I were not a married man i I should be tempted to fall deplorably in love with you (in the spot."  ' Well, you'll greatly oblige me by doing nothing o0' the sort," said Pet. "I have had enough of love to last me for one while. Love's X not thie pllansantest thing in the world, judging 1 by what Itve seen of the article; and, with the blessing of Providence, I'm going to have no- - thing whatever to do with it. May II ask the l name of the gentleman whose prisoner I have tile unspelakable happiness of being?"   t "Certainly! I am called, for want of a bet- ter, Captain Reginald." "Captain Reginald what? That's not a whole name."   -    ' His brow darkened for a moment, at some passing thought, then he replied: "Never mind; it serves the purpose, and it's the only one I believe I ever had a right to. I a am afraid you find the solitude here rather irk- some-do you not?"             C "  Well, Captain Reginald, to be candid with t you, it's n0t to say a place where a body would, c like to speid their lives. There's no danger of one's growing dissipated here, or anything that 'o way, you lnow-which is, of course, an advan- d   r tage. And now, might I ask who the gentleman is who has put himself to the very unnecessary e trouble of having me carried off? All the rest e seem to be dumb on the subject, from some S cause."\ "I fear I will have to be dumb, too, my dear y oung lady; the gentleman who has shown his t good taste by falling in love with you, does not r wish to be known at present. Can you not 1 guess yourself?" k   Haven't the remotest idea, unless it be Roz- zel Gainet, or Orlando Toosypegs?" "No-neither! Garnet, of course, brought you here, but he was paid to do it by another- we outlaws do anything, from murder down, for money. As for Toosypegs, or whatever the name may be, I haven't the pleasure of know- ring him ; but I can assure you it is not he." "Well, then, I give it up. I never was good at guessing, so I'll not bother my brain about it. Is it high treason to ask how long I am to i be cooped up here in this underground hole?" "Perhaps a fortnight, perhaps longer." "Vipers and rattlesnakes!-two whole bless- ed weeks!-whew! Well, Mr. Captain, all I have to say is, that I'll be a melancholy case of 'accidental death' before half the time, and then I wish your patron, whoever he may be, joy of his bargain." ' We will hope for better things, my dear young lady. By the way, I have not heard your name yet-what is it?" "Pet Lawless-better known to her unhappy friends as 'Imp, Elf, Firefly, Nettle, Pepper- pod,' and many other equally proper, appropri- ate, and suggestive names. ' Queen regent and mistress imperial to all the witches and warlocks that ever rode on broomsticks,' and leaves a large and disagreeable circle of friends to mourn her untimely loss. Requiescat in pace." All this Pet brought out at a breath, and so rapidly that the smuggler-captain looked com- pletely bewildered. "Lawless!" hle exclaimed. "I did not think -do you know Judge Lawless of Heath Hill?" he asked, abruptly. "Slightly acquainted. They say I'm a daugh- ter of his," said Pet, composedly. "' His daughter? Young lady, are you jest- ing?" ,  "Well, I may be-quite unintentional on my part', though; if it sounds funny, you're per- fectly welcome to laugh at it till you're black in the face. What was it?" "You Judge Lawless's daughter?" said the astonished captain. "Nothing is certain in this uncertain world, Captain Reginald. I've always labored under that impression; if you know anything to the contrary, I am quite willing to be convinced." "  Young lady, I wish you would be serious for one moment," said the smuggler, knitting his dark brows. "If you are his daughter, there   has been a terrible mistake here. Did not Roz. zel Garnet live at, Heath Hill for some years as the tutor of Miss Lawless?" "Yes, sir, and he was sent about his business for wishing to teach her some things not laid down in the books.' "Then he would' know you at once. Oh! it's impossible you can be Miss Lawless.", "Very well, if it affords you any consolation to think so, you are perfectly welcome to your own opinion. Who am I then?" "You Wre mistaken for, or rather you ought to be, a young lady, a celebrated beauty who lives in a cottagre somewhere on the heath." "What! Er minie?" "-I really do not know the name. Is it pos- sible you are not the one?" "Well no, I rather think not. Though I may not be Pet Lawless; and as you say I'm not, I won't dispute it-but I most decidedly am not Erminie Germaine." "Ernrinie who?" cried the outlaw, with a violent start. "Germaine. Perhaps you object to that, too." "Pardon me; tihe name is-"He paused and shaded his fine eyes for a moment withi his hand, then looking up, he added: "She -was the one who was' to be brought here; if you are really Miss Lawless, then there has been a tremendous mistake." "Humoh! it seems to me to have been a mistake all through. I shouldn't wonder 'the least if it turns out to be some of Master Gar- net's handiwork. So they wanted to carry off Erminie? Now, I'm real glad I was taken, if it has saved Minnie. It appears to have been a pretty piece of business, from beginning to end." "I shall puit an end to this mystery," said the captain, starting up and going to the door. "Marguerite," he said, lifting the screen, " send Rozzel Garnet here." "He has gone," replied the voice of the wom- an. "He went away the moment you entered that room." "Sold " cried Pet, jumping up, and whirling i round like a top in her delight. "He has taken 1 you all in-made April-fools of every mother's i son of you! Carried off me, Pet Lawless, for Erminie Germaine! He knew he would be dis- covered. and now he has fled; and when you i see last night's wind again, you will see him. Oh! I declare if it's ,not the best joke I have heard this month of Sundays!" And overcome by the (to her) irresistibly lu- i dicrous discovery, of how the smugglers had been " sold" by one of themselves, Pet fell back, laughing uproariously. ,i   CHAPTER XXXIII. HOME FROM SEA. "The dark-blue jacket that enfolds the sailor's manly breast Bears more of real honor than the star and ermine vest  The tithe of folly in his head may wake the landsman's mirth, But Nature proudly owns him as her child of sterling worth."          -ELIZA COOK. "Clear the track! off we go! whip up old lazybones there, and don't let him crawl on at that snail's pace! That's more like; now fort: it, at five knots an hour! IL's pleasant to sea the old familiar faces again, after knocking about in strange ports for half a dozen years -don't you thnk so, messmate?"And the speaker, a dashing, handsome, good-huimored- looking young fellow, with the unmiistakable air of a sailor about him, gave his fellow-passenger, an elderly, cross-looktig old gentleman, who sat beside him on thie r oof bf the stage-coach, a confidential dig with Iris elbow, that nearly pushed him, head-first, ouit of his seat. "Lord bless my soul! young man, there's no necessity for breaking a man's ribs about it-is there?" said the old gentleman, snappishly. "I dare say, it's all very nice, but you needn't dislocate your neighbor's bones about it. Do yoR belong to this place?" asked the old man, after a short pause, during whiclh, his compan- ion had politely apologized for the unnecessary force of tie blow in the ribs. "Yes, sir ;" said thie young man, with empha- sis, " that I do! and in all my rambles round the world, I never saw a place I li-ed better I No place like home, you know. Hurrah! for good old Judestown!" i"I wonder you'go to sea, then," said the ol4 man, crossly; " you're a fool to do it, getting drowned fifty times a day. I warrant you, you are always on the spree whenever you get on shore, like the rest of thnm, spending all your money instead of putting it in. the savings bank, as you ought to do, as a provision for your old age." '"Me get on the spree?" said the sailor, draw- ing himself up; "no, sir-ee. All my money goes to provide bread and molasses for my wife and family." "Wily, bless my soul and body!" exclaimed the old gentleman, surveying his young compan- ion through his spectacles in utter surprise, "you're surely not married yet, youngster." "Yes, I regret to say I am," said the " young- ster' in question in a passive tone, "and got a large family with large appetites to support. It's melancholy to reflect upon, but it's true. My wife keeps a billiard-saloon, and the chil- dren keep apple-stands at the corner of the streets, except my oldest daughter, and she's at service. Fine family, sir I Halloa! here we are, at the "Judestown House," and there's my old friend, Mrs. Gudge." "Humph!" grunted the old gentlemen,' doubt-     fully;,' where are you from last yong man "Livel' noelshi,'Sa...'    . -Liverpooi ship '*8ea Nymph;' master, Bur- leigh; first mate, liaadolph Lawless, Esq., late &  Jl"^  ^ ^Pawess, Esq., late of Heath H11-. Had some distinguished passen- gers' out with as, too," said the young man, tighteningihis belt. Humph. i"again grunted the old man. "Who were they,  y ask?" "CerLAmnly, you may ask, and I have great pleasure n answering, the Earl and Countes De Courcy, and their daughter, Lady ERita- perhaps you're acquainted them already," said the young man, with a wicked look ia his -knowing-eyes. "No, sir, I'm not," snapped the old man, and, what's more, I don't want to be, either, whetler you believe it or not." "Well, it's their loss then; that's all I have to say about it. Here we are at anchor, at last. Halloa, Mrs. Gudge!. don't you know me?" exclaimed ithe young man, 'springing lightly from his lofty perch and alighting like a cat on his feet. "Why, Master Ranty! is this yourself?" cried Mrs. Gudge, clasping her fatf hands and going off into a transport of delight, wonderful to behold. "Dearie me I how glad I am! how tall you are, and how brown, and handsomer than ever, I'declare!" Our old friend, Ranty, laughed, and dashed back his sun-browned loceks off his happy, thoughtless face, as he answered:  "I believe you, Mrs. Gudge; so handsome, - in fact, that they wanted to take away the Ap- polo Belviderea gentleman you are -not ac- quainted with, Mrs. Gudge-anA put me in his place. My modesty, of which I have at least  the full of a tar-bucket, would not permit me  to listen to such a proposal a moment. And  now, my dear madam, how are all my friends  at Heath Hill and Old Barrens?" "Ffirst-rate!" replied Mrs. Gudge; "the e was here, not ten minu tes ago, with that  rough fellow, with all the hair about his  face; Black Bart they call him."  "One of these notorious smugglers! whew! o I hope my excellenit father is not taking to con- traband courses in his latter days. What, in the name of Amphitrite, could he want of r Black Bart.                 c "Well, he said he wanted information about t the smugglers, and he sent my old man to look  for Bart." !"Humph! Set a fox catch a fox I I wonder  how be succeeded. Seen our Pet, lately "  No, 'not since one day she dressed herself in my Bo/bby's, clothes, and drove young Mr. Ger- paine and Miss Erminie over to the cottage,"  said Mrs. Gudge, laughing. 'Dressed herself in Bob's clothes! what the in dickens did she do that for?"       L ".Por fun, she said; none of us knew them E that day except her, and she drove them over co   I without their ever finding her out. Miss Pet, un- always is' doing something out of the way, you of know, Master anty.". en-  "And how is Mr. Germaine and Miss Ermin- anie, Mrs. Gudge?" "Very well, indeed! Lor', bless m! you ho would hardly know Mr. Ray; he's shot up like with wtig    ay, hesrBiig Bho d t u hke  a Maypole, and got one of them nIasty mousgar at ches on to his u ipper lip. Of all te gly tigs, ss they beats all. It actually makes my fleshn -creep to see them eating or driling with ti em id on. I'm glad you don't wear one, Master Ran. s1 ty, for of all the dis raceful things te"Mrs Gudge paused, and roiled up her eyes as if in nP -intense disgust, by way of filling up the hiatus.. r,   t's no merit of mine, I m aliaid" said ;an-  ty, passing his hand, over his lip; "I,'ve been fe mowing away for the last thrce )ears'; but ow- ting th some mysterious dispeisation of Pro vi- dence, or the barrenness of the soil, or some y other inscrutable reason, not!ng can -e in, duced  to sprout. I feel myself put a ron b Fate, I do so, Mrs. Grudge There's ay, now. with wiskers, flourishing, no doubte , a ie f green' bay tree; and here em I, a young man, twice as deserving, With a face as swooth as  sheet of foolscap. It's a darned shame, and I r Won't put u  iup with t, banred if I do  ld-, Gudge, let me have a horse and wagon, or a nsu perannuated gander, or a go-cart, or sone othe r r, quadruped to takle   fi home. Since I fnst tear myself away, I may as well do it first as as last." Mrs. Gudge oernied the door, and called to -Bobby to bring round a horse; and soon after 3that holeful made his aepearance, leading the - animal by the bridle. Paity waved a good-by to Mrs. (ndge, flung a handful of coppers to her son, junped into the saddle, and iwas off, as Bob   Gudge afterward expressed it "like Old Nick in a g  als of wind." Rantl'eres lad p ropsd a'fwihu lae -Ranty's eves li up with pleasure as the old, familiar scenes came once more-in view. There, was the forest road, bringing back Ihe Inemory Qf the dangerous, practical joke they had pla3 ed on  Pet. There  was Di mal ..o"iow, silent, grim, gloomy, -and lonely-a fit habitation for 'Miss Priscilla Toosypegs. Here was the Bar- rens; there was the little, white, vine-shaded cottage; and yonder in the distance, dazzling in its spotlees paint, was the staring, garish White Squall. There, too, was the brown-scorched road leading through the purple bloom of the heath to his' own ancestral home of Heath Hill. "Now to give them a surprise," said Panty, as hie alighted at the -little, cottage-gate and ap- proached  the door; "wonder   if Minnie will know me; I hope she is in." The parlor-door lay wide open, and he looked in unobserved. It was the day on which Judge Lawless had, proposed, a few hours later; and 'Erminie, whose gentle nature had not quite re- covered from the wonal his threats aHd l',1'-p,   words had given her, sat lone with the evenin shadows falling around her-her head resting on her hand, and her large, soft blue eyes dark with unshed tears. Pet had just departed. and the quietness and reacti on following the lustre of her exciting presence nade the silence and loneliness more dreary stil. 1. Ranty's first impulse had been to rush in, catch her in his arms, and give her a rousing salute; but the moment he saw her sweet, pale facee and drooping figure, feeling more near ly approaching to timidity than any thing our impudent young sOailor had ever felt before, held him back. Somehow he had expected to see a slender, delicate little girl, such as he had last beheld her; but she had passed away for- ever, and here in her place sat a tall, elegant girl, with a face as lovely as the hazel-haired Madonnas that had smiled upon him in the dim, old cathedral-aisles of glorious Italy. He took one step forward; she lifted her head with a startled look; her eyes met his, and she started impetuously to her feet. - "Erminie!"  "Ranty! O Ranty! I am so glad!" She caught his hand in iboth hers, while her face, a moment before so pale, flushed with de- light, and the violet eyes wire fairly radiant with joy. "O Ranty, I am so glad! When did you come?" "Got to Baltimore day .before yesterday. I ouppose you hardly expected to see me to-night, Erminie?" "No, indeed? And it is the most delightful surprise!" exclaimed Ermiiie, her beautiful face irradiated with joy, and forgetting she asno longer speaking to the boy Ranty. But when she caught his eyes fixed upon her with a look the boy had never worn, the flush rose painful- ly even to her very forehead. She dropped his hand, while her eyes fell, and she said, min a less  assured tone:       "Sit down; you must be tired after your journey. I am very sonrry Ray is not at home  to meet you."      !  "Never mind; I will see him  to-morrow. 1 And all my friends have been quite well since I  left, Erminie?"  "Yes, all. If you had krrived ten minutes  sooner, you would have seen Pet. She has just  gone."          ' - "Well. I will shortly have that pleasure. t How tall you have growIn and how you have   r changed since I saw you last, Erminie?" -He meant more the emphatic but undefina-  ble change from childhood to womanhood, than a that of her looks. Perhaps Erminie under- stood him, for she said, laughing:  "Not for thei worse. I hope. You, too, have  changed, Master Ranty.  "Well, not  uh, not much think; I have grown five or six feet taller and my complexion has    become a genteel brown; bunt, otherwise, I am the same Ranty Lawless I went away." k  "A little quieter, I should hope, forthe peace d and well-being of the community at large. Do a you still retain the high opinion you had of your i self before you left?" "Yes, slightly increased," said Ranty, who 1, had now recovered all his customary noncha- lance of manner. "There was a little lady out e with us from England whose precious life I had - the pleasure of saving; and with whose raven r eyes and coal-black hair I would have fallen in , love, but for the thought of a dear little blue- eyed fairy at home, who promised to wait for I me until I could come back. Do you remem- -ber that promise, Erminie?" t "I only remember you were very absurd," staid Erminie, laughing and blushing. "Don't talk nonsense; but tell me how you were so fortunate -s to save the lady's life '"  , "Well, one windy evening, a: little before dark, this little Lady Rita, who by the way, though the haughtiest, sauciest young damsel I ever encountered, was quite courageous, came upon deck, and insisted on remaining there, in spite of all expostulations to the contrary. She was leaning over he side, and I was stand- ing near, watching her, for want of something better to do, when the vessel gave a sudden lurch round. - I heard a scream, and beheld the place where her little ladyship had lately stood vacant. I caught sight of her the next mo- ment struggling in the waves; and, in a twink- ling, I was in after her. Lady Rita, who had hitherto looked dqwn upon me and all the rest of us with sublimest hauteur and vestal prud- ery, made not thie slightest objection to be caught in my arms now; on the contrary, she held on with an energy that nearly strangled me. A boait was lowered, and we were fishect up, clinging to each other as if bound to hold on ,to the last gasp. Lady Rita, according to the incomprehensible custom of the female sex in general, fainted stone dead the moment she -bund herself in safety. It's interesting to faint, and I was looking round for a nice plaeo to fol- low her example; but upon second thoughtM I concluded r wouldn't. There were no Soe young ladies round who understood my case; and to be tickled with burnt feathers, and be drenched 'with cold water by a lot of sailors, wa not be thought of. 'Lady Rita wasi carried to the cabin; and a great fuss and ;onnMotioa reigned there for the next two or three hour. while I was taking life'easy, smokinga lgati* deck. Then the earl, her 'parlent,' mae 1i appearance, and completely "eluged me with gratitude and thanks, which I stood like a until the' oounteaA e also-ome. Her te ahn protestafbhns of' evernlytint gratitu4ew^r" & ittl too m  i andtej. 4  i "ehto ay Im but I beat an inglorioi rteat o tlaak thing. one easily getsa ufeit ." . . .     W ^ ^hy, fiani, You have Sailed in high 'm6- pany lately"' saidi Erminie; " eail andt , oun i-dear me! I begin to feel quite an awe of you." ' -  I, "  "So you ought; and I lhope you'll'onitinii to cherish the feeling. But, Ermiinie,do y'u kw-p.--thoiigh, as you have never seen liinm, it'B lIkely-you don't-but you have the mbst'whn- derful resemblance to Lord De Couroy I ever beheld i myn life" .  "'Lord De Courcy! eclaimed ErmiNie, grow ipg jale as she, remembered ketnras fearful de- nunciations againrst all who bore that name. Yes, Lord and Lady De'Courcy are at pres- ent in Washington O ity. The earl says hie al- ways felt a desire to visit this country; but, hitherto, circumstances'. prevented hihi. The countess is a lovely w6man-one of the most beautifiil, I think, I ever saw; and as good as she is beautiful,' every one says." "/ I have heard of her before," said Erminie, in a low, subdued tone. "Mr. Toosypegs saw her many years ago, when he was in England. At least, I imagine it was her; for she was the Wife of the old earl's son, and Mr. Toosypegs says that since the death of his father he has been Lord'De Coucy." Ye s, so he has," said Ranty; "he was then Lord Villiers; but really, Mhie,youi likeness t him is quite wonderful." tWell, it is hot unusual for strangersa to re- semble one another; thoughi I suppoe I ought to feel, fl;ttered by looking in the remotest de- gree like one so great and distinguished. How ,euch I should like to see them both!" said Er- miie, musingly. "1  have heard so much 4bout them 'from Mr. Toosypegs, and-another, ha  my curiosity is quite excited. And their daughter-this Lady Rita-was that what you ialfld her? By the way, Ranty, I never heard they had a daughter." '"Yes, they had two; the oldest' died, I be- lieve, when a chid',; and LadyRita-&well some say she is not their daughter, 'but an'adopted ,iild. I don't know how'that may be; though, p. in it is, she 'doesf notlook like either of' ema.--not half'o mufich 'as you do, Erffiinie'. th, of them have 'very fair e'dmplexions, while  Z'dy,ifita is as dark'as a Creole. The'countess, j   O be ure, has, dark' hair and eyes; but still  elhaiuightt little daugh'ter dos not resemblie ber in the least."  ,   * '  t ", 'o they reminiia here lobnt?"said'hiniie,O 1a[8!.mrus-ingly R..0 lanity, how' mioh I should ' i,'bi  i,.& i   ;.i i '/ :tlh' 'ri : ' '"Well^erhaj^     ; iinteu overA6*W- $W p( thir graiti^r ^, -ke n A, pro-ri si 9vltio then en m    'tld; %y ^udyozUQflonyV^^ OIl0e6ke   p  m la, *and become ^; Hreits hwyo   can6         a VtjIy ey1*1 b idr ttellght "otn sne, Au     & ftorfe8a       &  if  '  W   I   patiently, , how ab urdi yoU"are 1" i a'm' no o be accounlitable for youir silly talk when we f parted, I hope?  "Well, all I havd to saabtit is;thAt' there will be a case of breach of promiise' up' before ' tie'cort' one of these days; if you attept th back Qut. Are you prepared to pay me five or six thoupand dollarn damages,- as a' plaster for my whonded feelings, may I ask, Migi Gcr maine?"        .  "As if' your affections were worth o':itenth that'sum, Mfr. Lawless I Now, do'le sensible, if you can, and tell me hoW long you are ging to- stay home."  '      g  "As to being'sensible, Miss Germaine, I flat: ter myself I am' that neow; and my stay, or depar- ture, must depend in a great measure on you." "NbW; Rinty, I shall, get angry if you don t stop being so niionsensical!" said Ermnie;', flush. ing slightly, .I did hope going to sia *onTid have put a little sense into your head'; but I per- eeiVe it has'had quite a contrary effect; I wish you could see Ray. These six y;ars have mwade him as grave and thoughtful as a judge.' I' ex- pect he will be "quie famous in his profession yet." "Well, I wish him joy of it, said Ranty. "But how any man 'can reconcile it to his con- science to be a lawyer, while honest, straight- forward piracy isffionrishing in the South Seas, and old-fashioned, upright brigands infest the Pyrenees, is 'beyond my 'comprehension! How- ever, 'every- one to their tast'; and, luckily, this is a free country. Good-bye, now, Miss Ger- maine. Fate and tliapproaclh of night compels me to be off; but you inAy look out for me an hour or so before day. dawn to-morrow." And Ranty got up, shook hands with Erminie, mounted his horase, iand rode off  "Now Raity Lawless;," said that genitleman t6 himself, when fairly on the' road, -it's my pri- vate'belief and impression that you are failling in love, young man! What asweet, artless, love- lyface the girl has got, any way I And those eyes -those' wlstffil, ,tender, violet eyesa--how' thev do go through a fellow's vest-pattern, thoulh'! A iti my shn,'take cdare! Have you escaped' tfe, witchery of dark eyed SpaniSh dofinas; 'e melting glances of Italia's raven-haired 'daut- ters the eneharitmsntiofthe little knobby-footed, rffron-skinned lIdies of -the 'Celestial -Eiipirer; the bedevilment of the free-and-easy mesdii s of free-and-easy France, to be, heoked'h&  mo- shomu ld Shi' in tlh!; anfU t, aoil0ide fhteI shll t!e higeasblue 'ys 6d Uh1ite Sti/ail.' '1 ihlnk:lstalil go -'Oe/'-'ndi :z my 'bort'ld!;: h:intutdfit,; fae  hll  take thi ^gs T hi ^^74   'So' sying, Banty rode rapidly in the dire- titoi of the flaring white mansion, and entered, without ceremony. The admiral, as. usual, 'was alone in the parlor, und gave his. nephew a Boisterous welcome, shakiing his hand. as if. he had hold of the handle of a pump, until Ranty winced and jerked it away.. Then, having re. plied to the avalanohe of questions with which the ancient mariner overwhelmed him, Rauty rose, and rode homeward, to surprise the house. hold there. 'Surprise the houiisehold be did--at least all of them to be found; which were only the servants. The judge was goue, and so was Pet. "Why, Aunt Deb, Pet started for homenear. ly and hour ago," said Ranty, somewhat alarm-. 'ed. "What can have become of her?"?' "Lors I Mars'r Ranty, how de debbil I know?" said Aunt Deb, who was given to profanity now and then. "Dar ain't nebber no tellin' whar dat ar little limb pokes herself. She might be at dem old Bar'ns, or she might be at Dismal Holler, or she might be gone to old Harry.-" ".Old Harry!" interrupted Ranty, angrily. "What do you mean?"  Why, ole;Mars'r Harry'Hateful; dar ain't no tellin' wliar she is l"  "XWell, that's true enough. I wish she were here, however. Perhaps she won't be'back to- night," said Ranty,. walking up and down the' room, and whistling a sea air. Aunt Deb hustled but, to prepare supper, to which meal our young sailor sat down alone, wondering, alternately, where Pet could be, and' thinking of the witching, fiolet eyes of Erminii.  Then, when'it was over, ihe took up a book, to  beguile time, hoping still to see Pet; but when i eleven o'clock struck, he gave up the idea of seeing her that night, and retired to bed, to dream of Erminie..   i  As he had partaken of the eening mealalone. the-evening before, so was he forced to sit solo at breakfast. Neither Pet. nor the judge had re- turned, nor were any tidings to be, obtained of a their whereabouts; and, after breakfast, Ranty'  immediately rode over to'the Barrens, - In the cottage, he found :Raywhe iad, j3us{t returned,:who was reeoiving an pcqqunt'of Ran-' h ty s arrival from the lipsof Erminiei when the  ientrance :of thatk ypyungggentloiama hi'msel] out it, short/ Wafm and' art w' ti;ewrpetinghe. - teen thetwo, friend,;. fo ' r brotr^, p ,led i eaoh-9ther better tha ;did they,:' , ,.  . I   su p oe et, ws r perfer ct ,e st . o e dehiAt at your unexpecte4 reurn4" *  k$ - mxufe tplwug hewo9,r ^^rk, a4d sTtiag dw  ,oner, low reeking-chair, by' thwIn:'own , ."  . why, wh  e   r   e can s h e be, tEhF"i - "was at hppe a a^l'tap piJ^ .andwhere the ^lewe1  *to i4hs#, IU4oatknpw,', , *,. '.-    *  'h^'4ltome!"n^ l&mi^i ja -ups.  "Why, where can she be. tlin r!"' "y Mi*^  QGem t wo   ihtil oI   e- would feel very muh obliged tiyou to tell mn 1, Its veryjike looking for a needle in a -a-staiic s Im incline4 to thin, o. go hunting "?r ter. aThe best wivay is, totake thlugs easy, and let he/ ice   omeome whqn se likjs', ... y  "Why, .it i most si'uar," said  rne ' "I know she started. for homle, and took ti ;a41 I leading to HeathHill., Per hps she chahngehr, y mind, and WOeotut' the White Squall.'". ,.' "*No , that he .djdi',". udiity. "I wa there I st night,ater la: ig g hbro;, Thoe girPi ,f bewitjoed,; and perlaps sheJ rpke off on some  Qiixotioe expedition by herse6Z , "She was :on foot,".,aid griniie, now really * growing alarmed ..' Starlight' was lame'or some.  thing;' so she started to walk home. O Ranty I I am afraid something hps happened to her"; she cried, looking up in terrqr.. ' "Oh. pooh, Ermie, . What could 'hppen 'to her between this and Heath Hill'? Nonsnse "' said Ranty, beginning to: look uneasy.  "What hour did. she Jeve' here, Minie?'P asked Ray, his dark face paling salightly at the thought of danger to her; .. "It was nearly dark; and she had to walk all alone over that lonesome heath. O Ray'! some. thing must have .happened o her I' Cried Er- minie, growing white with vague .larm, Why, what, inmHeaven's name. could4 hao;e' happened to her? '.asked Ualty, .catch ng the infection of Erminie's feaS, "I So one has ever been molested on the hea'th"i ' ' s "Those Jawless smugglers are continuall' prowling around now; and it is very unsaJfe tor a young girl, to venture in such a loielT place, unprotcted, after night. Good heqvnso if she should have 'fallen intp their hand 'f ern Ray, startiog up, in consternation.' ' , ,   y oI hope not. O, ayI oA y9u reai think shei . " elaimea drmnie, clasping her hands in mortal terroiir.  - "There lnq telhjpg., Sonis oitliaf  i gang' are continually prowling about the woods, and shoreandnd 'a , - iZ f Wey saw Vet--Mie LawJess,"h ead edhk his'li -;, Y woe 'i:ol d rap pa t '  ce, Thepre is no ilo4fv iec p V     d ful for thei: &  ' o. . than si,uggp, )ipple thank ,spyep uggngjP 1,ries bic *ii4 heiu   qr   tj   Cirojj fo     ......W 0 uorwat inae IftQl l4ltlon,'...   . ro T'y'   agT ?^ ^   p  jr  o     prize she wOuld be for any one to take in tow PI said Rauty, getting alarmed in spite of himself. "They might take hier in the hope of ob- taining a large ransom for her release, or they might-oh I the thought is too horrible to con- template!" exclaimed Ray, almost fiercely. "Ranty, why are we losing time here, when your sister may be in such danger? This is no time for idlle talking. About! mount I and off in search of her I will instantly follow!" "Well, but wait a minute, Ray, before start- ing on this wild-goose chase," said Ranty. "How do we know that she is not safely housed in Dismal Hollow, or somewhere in Judestown, all this time, while we are raving about pirates and abductors?" "Oh, she is not! she is not!" cried Erminie, wringing her hands. "She started for Heath Hill, and bad no intention of going anywhere else. Wild and daring as she is, she would not venture to walk alone through the forest after night. O holy saints! what can have become of her?" . "We are! losing time talking," said Ray, Whose face iwas now perfectly colorless with contending emotions. "Mount, Ranty, and tide back to Heath Hill and the White Squall, and see if she has returned to either place since you left. I will go to Dismal Hollow and Judestown, and search for her there. If she is to be found iu neither of these places, then it must be too' true that she has fallen into the hands of the smugglers." Ranty, alarmed, but still incredulous, sprang on his horse and galloped rapidly in the direc- tion of the White Squall, while Ray, at an equally rapil and excited pace, took the oppo- site road leaping to Dismal Hollow. And Er- mine? white With vague, nameless, but terrible apprehension, rdmained behind, to pace up and down the flor, wring her hands, and strain her eyes in anxiouswatching for their return. Ranty was the first to return, with the alarm- ing tidings that nothing had been heard of her at either place since. yearly wild with terror, now, Erminie continued her excited pace, up and down the room, crying bitterly. "Oh I I should not have let her go'! I should not hawe let her go! I ought to have kept her all night. I knew it was dangerous crossing 'the heath, and I should not have let her attempt It alone. O  R,4fRay Would only come!"  i But another long, seemingly Interminable hoUn passed before Ray made his appearance, and thten he came' dashing 'up, pale, wild, and excited. His eyes met Rasy'  s he entered. That  glanee told all-both hsdalled. "You have not found her," said Ranty, hur-  iedly. "No; but I heard enough to confirm my  worst suspicion. Late yesterday afternoon, Orlando Tossypegs says he saw one of the gang,   ' a fellow called Black Bart, accompanied by some one else, he could not discern who, but * doubtless another of the outlaws, take the forest- road leading this way. Pet has been waylaid and entrapped by them, there can be no doubt; for neither of them have beenseen since,". Erminie dropped, like one suddenly stricken, into a seat, and hid her face in her hands Brother and lover looked in each others'pale faces with an unspoken: "What next?" CHAPTER XXXIV. FACE TO PACE. -"Ah me! The world is full of meetings such as this." --WIIAIS. "What next?"          - It was Ranty who spoke in a deep, excited voice. Ray, white and stone-like, stood with "one arm resting on the mantel, his face shaded by his heavy, falling hair, his deep breathing painfully breaking the silence. Ah! in that moment how the gossamer wall of his sophistry wYas swept away! He had flattered himself his resolution was strong enough to keep him from loving Pet; but now, now that she was gone, and perhaps; forever, the truth stood glaring out in all its vividness, and he felt that he loved her with his whole heart and soul, as only a strong, fervid, passionate nature like his could love. His strong chest heaved with an emotion too deep and intense for words; and as he thought of her, alone and unprotected, in the power of those ruthless men, his very respirations stop- ped, until it became painful to listen for its re- turn. Ranty's question roused him; and the necessity for immediateaction'restored, in some measure, his customary calmness and clear- headed energy. "We ought instantly engage the services of the Judestown police, and begin a vigorous search, I think," said Rantyr. "Search! Have not the police and the rev. enue officers searched for this infernal smug- glers' den for the last six months without ceas- ing? and yet they were as near finding it the first dayas they are now." "Then what is to be done?" said Ranty "We must try some means to find her, that is certain. Poor Pet! Ohl I  always had a sort of presentiment that mad girl would get herself into some scrape of this kind,sooner or later. Hang the villains! I would like to swing every one ofthem to the yard-arm myself." "Ought younot to send word to your father?" suggested Erminie, whose face was perfectly colorless with fear for Pet.  I suppose I ought; but where am I to find him:? He has gone, as well as Pet, and no' one seems to know in "what direction he may be found. The smugglers can't surely have 'taken him, too-"I           , "Though I know it will be fruitless, I see   nothing for jt but to follow your advice, and inform the Judestown authorities. The shore in every direction must he searched; for if heaven and earth has to be roused, we must find your sister!" exclaimed Ray. "What if they have taken her off to sea?" suggested Ranty. Ray started violently, for a moment, at the terrible idea; the next, a contrary conviction settled in his mind,'and he said: "I hardly think so.; they would not be so precipitate. At all events, by commencing a thorough search immediately, we may discover some clue to her whereabouts. We had best return immediately to Judestown, and enlist all we can in the search." "We will have no difficulty in finding volun- teers for the hunt," said Ranty. "Pet was al- ways an immense favorite with every one, and the whole town, I believe, would rise in a body to look fr her, did we wish it. I would not give much for Black Bart's life if he attempts to show himself to the mob after they hear this." So saying, the two passed out, mounted their horses, and set off for Judestown. If that morning had seemed long to Pet in her prison, doubly long did it appear to Er- minie, who, too uneasy and restless either to sit still or work, paced up and down the room, or passed in and out of the cottage, straining her eyes to catch a glimpse of the first who would come with news of Pet. But the morn- ing passed and no one came; and sick, weary, and worn out with anxie'ty and disappointment, she sank down on a seat, and hid her face in her hands in a passionate burst of tears. A heavy, plodding step coming up the grav- eled walk in front of the cottage roused her, at last. She sprang to her feet, and stood with cheeks flushed, lips parted, eyes dilated, and bosom heaving, with eager expectation. But it was only the admiral, who came stump- ing in, looking more completely mystified and bewildered than any one had ever seen him be- fore in their lives.       /  "Helm-a-lee! roared the admiral, thrusting his huge head in the room. "What the dick- ens has little Firefly run afoul of now, or what's in the wind anyway?"            I O Admiral Havenful I Pet's lost I been car-  ried off by those dreadful smugglers 1" said 'Er-' minie, sinking back in a fresh burst of passion- ate grief. "Staid from under!" exclaimed the old sail-  or, in a slow, bewildered tone, every reasoning faculty completely upset by this astounding ii- telligence.       I "Oh, it was my fault! it was my fault!" i cried Erminie, With bitter self-reproach. "I  should not have allowed her to go last night at  all. Oh, I will never, never forgive myself as long as I live," and another burst of tears fol-  lowed the declaration.   "Stand from under!" reiterated the admiral, still " far wide"; "Firefly carried off by the smugglers! Good Lord! Keep"hr' roonda' point or so."    .      "They will take her off to'sea;, and she will never come back again. O Pet," wept Erminuie, in a wild outhurst of grief. "Now, Snowdrop, just hold on a minute, will you?" said the admiral, facing briskly round. "Just stand by till we see how we're coming.' The question is, now, where's Firefly? That's' the question, ain't, it, Snowdrop?" Erminie's sobs were her Only answer. "Just stand by a minute longer, will you?" said the admiral, lifting up the forefinger of his right hand, and aiming it at Ermninie's head. "Firefly's gone-sunk-went to the bottom, and no one left to tell the tale-ain't that it, Snowdrop?" Erminie, knowing the admiral must be an- swered, made a motion of assent. "Now the question is," went on the admiral, bringing the finger down upon the palm of his other hand, and looking fixedly at them; "the question; what did Firefly run afoul of? She must have run afoul of something, musn't she, Snowdrop?" "Y-e-s, I suppose so," said Erminie, not very clearly understanding the admiral's logic. ' "And that something she run afoul 'of is sup- posed to be smugglers. Port your helm," roar; ed thie admiral, on whose somewhat obtuse mind the whole affair was slowly beginning to dawn. "O Admiral Havenful! -what do you think they will do with her? Surely, they will not kill her!" exclaimed Erminie, looking up im- ploringly. "Just you hold on a minute longer, will you, Snowdrop?" said the admiral, looking fixedly at the fingers lying on his. broad left palm. "And don't you keep putting me out like this. Pet's run afoul of smugglers; they have board- ed her, and she's knocked under and surrender- ed. Ain't that it, Snowdrop?" "They have carried her off-,yes sir," wept Erminie. "They have carried her off-yes, sir," slowly repeated the admiral, in the same tone of in- tense thoughtfulness, "they have carried her off, but where to? There it is, Snowdrop, where to?"  "Oh, I wish I knew! I Wish I knew  If we could only discern that; all would be well. 0 dear, dear Pet!" '            ..' "Pet has run afoul of smugglers and been carried off, nobody knows where. Stand from' under " yelled the admiral, in 'a perfect pat'ro- vsm of grief and consternation, as 'the' whole' iffair now burst in full fereeupon him. '* There was no reply from Erminile, who 'still wept in silent grief.,  "Main topsail haul'l" shouted the old man,     inm inged ;age and grief, a s it ll dawned clear- 1Y1 4 bw ie miinad JaNt'last. ThPet's gone 1 Been qppavted; :bee, boktrded, scuttled, and surk. O perdition 1" yelled. the admiral, junpiRng up 4,t- tamp'  :?Ip and down, grasping his wig with both hands, inp'is tmpest vt grief. "  Firefly, yoiu dear, blesseA, little, agqll You darned, diabolical, little fool Going and thrustjng your nose, into every mischief that ever was invented, O, rou dailing, merry, lit; tie whirligig! You confounded, baamed, young demon I T'lo go and get yourseef into such a scrape. Oh, i I -only had a hold of the vil- lains I They ought to be hung to theyard-art, every blessed one of them. O Pet, my dar- ling i By the body and bones of Paul Jones, you ought tp be thrashed within an inch of yourlie! Oh, oh, oh-oh!" roared the admiral in a final burst of grief, as he flung himself into his chair and began a fierce mopping of his inflamed face.' While thus engaged, anothe step resounded w4ithout-a slow, lingering, dejected step--and the next moment the'pallid features, and mild blue eyes of Mr. Toosypegs beamed upon them from thedoor. "Orlando," shouted the afflicted admiral "he's went ansd did it! Firefly's gone and did it'! Yes, Orlhndo, she's gone to Davy's locker, I expect, before this, and the Lord have mercy on her soul!" "Admiral Havenful, I'm real sorry to hear it, I:really am," said Mr. Toosypegs, wiping lis eyes with the! north-west corner of his yellow bandanna. ", never felt so bad about anything in my life; I never did, I assure you, Admiral Havenful. But why can't they go to Davy's locker after her! I shoull think they. wouldn't mind the expense in a case like this."  I Orlando-C. Toosypegs," said the admiral,  severely; "I hope you don't mean to poke fun  at people in grief; because if you do, it shows i a very improper spirit on your' part, and a total: depravity I should be sorry to see, Orlando  Toosypegs."  "Why, my gracious " said the astonished o and aggrieved"Mr. Toosypegs.; " what bave I e said? I'm sue, Admirti Havenful, I hadn't n the remotest Tdea of being funny, that ever t was; and if I said anything that wasn't right, I 1 beg your pardon for it,.and can assure you I o liever meant it.!' "Well, thenti enough said," testily interrupt- . ed the admiral 1 "'1ow, Snowdrop, look here; 8l what are they oing to do about?"et?"  "ay and [Rnty bhave gone to Judestown to g get thq people: to searoeh,' Tfey think she is tl somewhere aloig t4e beach, in some   hidden d *eve the smugglers have there."      n "Um-m I very good," said thIe admiral,nod te ing his. herd approvingly ;, Y perhaps they b will find her yet. I'll go over to Judestowu l8 myself, and ship along' With the rest. We'll st   r- .scour the whole ot; sO that if she's above en water anywhere, we must find her." "I'll go, too, Admiral Havenful," said Mr p Toosypegs, with more alacrity tlsan he uually ig betrayed; " that is, f you tink there is no D danger with them smugglers. You don't think "therels any danger, do you, Admiral Havenful?" Bd Blame them    yes!" roared the admiral, fiercely. '"I wish to the Lord Harry I cout1 - only come across some of them! I" be blow g edif I wouldon't give them the confoundedesl a keel-hauling they ever got in their lives! Ii 1- you are atraid, Orlando Toosypegs," Waid thf u, admiral, facing round with savage abuptness, S ta at home! Any man that. wouldn't vogl , unteer in a case like this, ought to be owung te ,f the yard-arm and left to feed the crows. You 1, would be a blue look-out for the commander o; if a privateer- wouldn't you?" )f "Admiral Havenful," said Mr. Toosypegs. abashed and rather terrified by this outhurst ) 'I beg your pardon, and I ain't te 'lenst afraidn I'll go with you, and do my best to help you to keel- aul the smugglers, whiatever that may be. a Miss Minnie, good-bye. Don't take on about it, because we'll be sure to find oiss Pet and bring 1, her home. I dare say the smi gglers will give I herup, if they're only asked politely." e The admiral heard this comforting assurance with a sort of unspeakable contempt, and then waddled out; and groaning bodily and mental- ly, mounted Ringhone, and acconmparied by Mr. loosypeg, set out nt the rate of half a knot an r hour for Judestown. o During the remainder of the day, Erminie was left alone, halt wild with alternate hope, i ,terror, anxiety, and expectation. Her busy fingers, for a wonder, were idle now, as she i passed continually in and out, watching, with feverish impatience, the forest road, in the lope of seeing, som ne one who could give her some news of how the search progressed. But night came, and no messenger had arriv- ed to relieve her torturing anxiety. It was a sultry, star-lit night. Not a breath of air stirred the motionless leaves of the for- est treei, and the clear chirp of the katy-did and lonely cry of the whip-o'-will alone broke the oppressive silence. Down on the shore be- low, she could faintly hear the dreary murniur of the waves as they sighed softly to the shore; and at long intervals the wiltd, piercing cry of some sea-bird would resound above all, as it skimmed wildly across the dark, restless deep. The wide, lonesome heath was as silent as -the grave; and the long line of cherry-red light that usually shone over it from the parlor-win. dows of the White Squall wis not visible to- night-the dreary darkness betokening its mas- ter wras away. The forest lay wrapped in sonm- bre gloom, looming up, like sorne iluae, dark shadow, in the light of the solemn, beautiful stars.   All'witlhin the cottage was silept, tqo. Ke tu- '.,fl^ading ..i the shadrow of the vinegshaded poreh? Erminie watched with .restless impatience for the return of some one from. Judestown h'.er whole 'tlought of Pet and her' probable fate. pnceasingly she reproached herself for ihaying l!owed her to depart at all that nighth; never ipiaus ing to think how litte Pet would have minded lher entreaties to stay when she took it ipto her willful little head to go. Tbe clock struck nine, and then ten; and still no one came. Half-despairing of their return that night, Erminie was about to go in, when the thunder of horses' hoofs, coming through the forest road, arrested her steps. The next moheat, horse and rider came dash- ing at a mad, excited gallop up to the gate, and Ray leaped off and approached. "O Ray, is there any news of her? Is she found?" eagerly. exclaimed Erminie. "No; nor is she lively to be, as far as I can see," said Ray, gloomily. ' Not the slightest trce .of' her has been found, thouglh the whole beach hashbeen'searched, from'one end to anoth- other. They have given it up, now, and gone home for to-night. Ranty and the admiral stay in Judestown all night; and the hunt is ,to be resumed to-morrow, with the same success, I Suppose. They %re mad-worse than mad --to think they will ever see her again." He' flung himself into a chair, and leaned his head on his hand, while his thick, jet-black hair fell heavily over his face. Something in his look, tone, and attitude awed and stilled Erminie into silence. Though her own gentle heart seemed bursting with grief, ;there was .a depth of passionate despair mn his that repressed .Ill outward sol's and tears. In silence they remained for a while, she silent- ly wtching'him, and trying to choke back her ohbs ; and then, goi'ng over, she touched him gently on the arm, anp "'id: "Dear Ray, let me get you some supper; you have tasted nothing since early this inorn- ing."            I "S4upper! Do you think I could eat, now.?" he cried, with fierce impatience. "I do not want any. Go!" D earest Ray, do not look and :speak so strangely. Perhaps you will find her to-mor- "Perhaps-perhaps I When a map has lost All he loves in the world, there is gret opnso- lation in a cold i perhaps he may find it again.' Do you think those hall-hounds would spa're e a . moment, oahce tly got .ier in their pow- e:  & O'etrponillar--ight, beeantiful Peta9nila! lo, Io t forever  .      . "B ay, ei!"i exclaimed Erminie, in low, tar-   pified tones, a. new light broke upon her, "did you 10?egir onilla?"     ' Lave?" ,le cried, with passionate fiercenes, starting up and 6hkiqg [bck his thick, d. r% hair. "Yes; I loved '.hr 'with a love that you, with your geptlenature and alm ly-beinr, heart, can neve r eveji dream of. '1 loved her ag only tlose csn love whose veins, like mine, itaI fire instead of blood. Now that she .is forever lost to me, I -may confess what no ;living morttt Would ever have discovered else. 'Yes; 1 loved, her! What do you think of mypresumption, little sister? I, the beggared grandson of a despised gipsy, educated by the 'bounty of her uncle, dared to lift my eyes to this heiress, beauty, and belle-this proud daughter of a priouder father. Loved her? Yes; beyond the power of words to tell!" One white arm was around his neck, and Er- minie's soft, pitying lips were pressed to his forehead of flame. She did not spvak--no words were needed, that silent caress bespoke her deep sympathy. He sat stiff and silent for a moment; and then he started up and seized his hat to go, "Are you going out again, Ray?" asked Er- minie, surprised and uneasy. "Yes; for an hour or so. I cannot stay here, with this fever fire in 'heart and brain." He walked rapidly away from the cottage, and, as if involuntarily, his steps turned in the direction of the shore. Right over the shore, in one place, the rocks projected in a sort o.. shelf not more than five feet from the ground. Underneath they went in abruptly, and thus a sort of natural roof was formed; and the shel- tered place below had 'been the favorite play- ground of his boyhood. Up and down this ledge he paced, now, ab- sorbed' in his own bitter thoughts, and totally unheeding the .flight of time. .One hour, two, three passed; and still he remained, thinking of the lost one. Suddenly he paused.  Did ,hjs ears deceive him, or did he hear voices underneath. His own steps were muffled by the velvety carpet of moss and grass that covered the place, and he walked to the outer edge and listened intently. Yes; there were voices underneath, talking in low, cautious tones. His heart gave a great throb, and he got down on his hands and knees and peered for one pmmep;  over the cliff. Right beneath were some half-dozen rough, un- couth-looking fellows, in the garb of sailors, and one of them, Black Bart, he remembered to have often seen in Judestown. Had he discov- ered the smugglers' haunt at last?- Laying hishea close to the ground, he could catch, 'nteryiials this aonversation: Ye; 'e   oqs e for good; cleare do op when iie found he nmit be diseovered. Wbaa, pretty mess you mpde of i{, Bart, taking th wrong gal, after sh," ,aid one of them.     "Well, it wasn't m fault," growled  Dart. "Hqw was I to know one frow t'otik Serves the 'ld sinner right, too, to get taen in. D-n 'Garnet I This -comes  f trusin these infer'al land-sharks." "What a beautiful hunt they ha[ over the bea1 to-day!"said another, with a slow chuckle They'll be at it to-morrow, too, and have their labor for their pains. Well, cap'n, does the gal still stick to her story that she ain't the one sh ought to be?" The reply 1 o this was given in so low a tone that Ray could not hear it, and in his intense eagerness he leaned farther over to listen. But, as he did so, he lost his balance. He strove to save himself, but in vain- over he must go; and seeing there was no help for it, he tool( a lying leap, nd landed right in the midst of the astounded freebooters I With interjections of surprise and alarm, half a dozen brig it blades instantly flashed in the moonlight; b it, ere any violence could be of. fered, the tal' form of the outlaw-chief inter- posed between them, and father-and son stood c face to face I       t EHAPTER XXXV.          t v    A P'THEB AND 9ON.        k "When lovers meet in adverse hour, 'Tis lie a sun-glimpse through a shower- a A watery ray, an instant seesn,  Then darkly closing clouds between.",  -SCOTT. Silently they onfronted each other--those two so nearly conuected-..so long separated -.s- ha strangely encntered now.  Did no "still small," Inward oice whisper to each that they were father and son? Was the voice of Nature silent, that theyshould gaze upon each other as strangers gaze     ?       aD Yes, even so8 for although the outlaw-chief n started for a moment, to see before him the living im embodiment ofi himself at the same age, the Mi emotlo' passedfin a moment, and the strange resemblance war set down to one of those acci- sail dental likenesses that so often surprise us, and ob whieli cannot b0 accounted for. Ray, too, fan- cied this dark, dying, reekless-looking chieftain il resembled limsqlf somewhat; but the passing thought had eveh less effect upon him than it' had on the other!            it The men, still igrasping their swords, had en- circled Ray, and were glaring pan him with e darkly-threatenifig eyes, as he stood boldly erect, and undauntedly confrontingh tho smuggler- All chief           g.     gg "Well," said that personage, at last break- ing the silence, And calmly surveying the in- afte truder from hand to foot ", who the foul fiend T are you, young man, that you come tumbling ed d from the clouds amnongst us in this fashion?" "He is a revenre-spy. Let us pitch him in prin the river, Cap'n i' said Black Bart     it   lack  "Silence, sir! Come, my good youth, an. er? swer: What is your business here " iken "My business is, to discover the young lady ting you have so basely abducted. If you are the leader of this gang of cut-throats, I demand to the be instantly informed where she is 1' said Ray, kle. determined to put a bold front'-on the matter heir since he was in for it gal  "Whew-w!" whistled the captain, while the she men set up an insolent laugh. ' For coolness and effrontery, that modest demand cannot be one easily beat. And what if we refuse, young sir?" nse Your refusal will not matter much, since, lut, to-morrow, your retreat will assuredly be dis- to covered, and then you will every one meet the 'o; doom. your diabolical actions deserve l" ' a  "And what may that be, most candid youth?" he said the smuggler-chief, with a sneer. "Hanging!" said Ray, boldly; "a fate to o alf good for villains base enough to forcibly cat, ie off a helpless young girl 1"-  f.  With low, but passionate imprecations of rage r- the outlaws closed around Ray; and his mortal Td career might have ended then and there, but that the c'ptain a second time interfered. "Back, men!" he said,autlhoritatively. "Let there be no bloodshed to-night. Do you not know there are two places where a man ought to speak without interruption P-in the pulpit, and on the gallows. This foolhardy fellow is as completely in our power as though he were swinging in mid air, so he can speak with impu- nity. Pray proceed, my dear sir. Your 'on- , versation is mighty edifying and interesting. So hanging is too good for some of us, eh? Now, 1, what would you recommend to be done 'with us, rsupposing you were our judge?" Burninig at the stake,perhaps!" suggested Black Bart; " and after that to be hung, drawn, and quartered!" This is no time for fooling," exclaimed Ray, impetuously. "I demand to be instantly led to M iss Lawless, wherever she may be!"  "A demand I am most happy to comply with," said 'Captain Reginald. I always do like to oblige my guests when I can. This way, my young sir. But just keep your eye on him- will you?-and see that hedoes not give you the slip.' "Ay, ay, cap 'n?" said Bart. "Hadn't I bet- ter bind and blindfold him?" "No; it will be needless, as, in all probabili. ty, he will never set foot on this shore again."  "I understand: ';Dead men tell no tales! All right, cap'n," said Black Bart, with a de- moniacal laugh, as the whole party, with their prisoner in their midst, started along the beach after the captain. The cheering assurance that his fate was seal- ed did not in the slightest degree intimidate Rsay. as he walked along, with his fine form eleat, his princelylhead thrown back, his full, falcon eye, with its clear, steady gaze, making the insolent ,   stare of the outlaws fall. One thought was up- permost in his heart, thrilling through every nerve, throbbing in every pulse: he was draw- mig near Petronilla-he would soon meet her, speak to her, comfort her in her captivity. What pair of pantaloons over the innocent and unsusceptible age of seven has not felt a decid- edly queer sensation under his left ribs, when about to meet the woman he loves? And if he fancied her pining away in " durance vile," how much his eagerness to meet, to comfort, to con- sole her would be increased! At least, it is to be hoped it would; and it had at least that effect on Ray Germaine, who, rapidly as they walked, in his burning impatience it seemed as though'they were going at a snail's pace. Even before him he beheld Pet, locked up in some desolate prison, weeping as if her heart would break, and calling on her friends to save her. Little did he dream that at that very moment she was rolling over on the floor of her room in convulsions of laughter, at the mistake Mack Bart had made, and the consequent rage its dis- covery had thrown that worthy into. For upward of a quarter of a mile, they walk- ed along the long, sandy, slippery beach, and then they suddenly diverged, and turning an abrupt angle among the rocks, they came to a part of the hill overgrown with stunted spruce and cedar bushes. It was a bleak, lonely place, little frequented, and with no sign of anything like a ht, or cavern, or habitation far or near. But here the whole party came to a simultane- ous halt; and the smuggler-chief, butting his fingers to his lips, gave a long, Ioud, sharp whistle. While Ray watched these proceedings with intense interest, part of the thick under- brush seemed to move; a huge rock was vio- lently dislodged from its place, and a narrow, low opening, that it seemed hardly possible to enter, save on one's hands and knees, was re- vealed. The narrow chasm had evidently, at I some remote period, been made by a convulsion I of Nature, but Art had since been employed to widen, enlarge, and conceal it. The huge rock c was made to fit securely, and could only be b opened from within, thus defying detection. Those in search of Pet that day lhad passed over tf the spot a dozen times, without dreaming in thec most remote way that there could be an open- R ing concealed among the apparently solid e rocks. Captain Reginald turned to the utterly-aston- ished Raymond, and gazed at him for a moment, ti with a peculiar smile of sarcastic triumph. Then Y stooping his tall body, he passed through the opening, and disappeared in the seemingly in- p terminable darkness beyond.  "You go next," said Black Bart, to Ray. hi Without a moment's hesitation, the young a] man obedyea ; and having entered the aperture, found himself in the same long, narrow, dark hi passage into which Garnet had borne Pet' the ke Of .   p- evening before. Ray descended the narrow, ry steep steps, faintly illuminated by the dim rays - of a dark-lantern held by the man who admitted er, them; and following the smuggler-captain y. through the long, rocky passage, entered at nd last, the large outer-room-the rendezvous of d- the outlaws. en  The rough1y-dressed, rougher-looking men ie lay, or sat, scattered about in every direction, ,w some asleep on the floor, some talking in low n- tones, and others amusing themselves as they to pleased. In a remote corner sat the woman at Marguerite, her arms dropped on a little table, y her head lying on them, as if asleep. Her s presence accounted for the unuseial stilfnesi of 'n the men. ie She was not asleep, however. As the new. d comers entered, shbe lifted her head ouickly, and r. after a fleeting glance at her husbana, fixed her t eyes steadfastly on the stranger. His strange resemblance to her husband was the first thing k to stil:e her. Sbe half started up, dashed bace 3- her wild, disheveled black hlair, and gazed up- on him with a sharp, suspicious look. The men, too, stopped in their customary avoca- d tions to look at the new-conwmer, and scan him a from head to foot with inquiring eyes. Ray's a' dark, flshing yes fearlessly encountered theirs, e as lie glanced vainly around the room in search , of Pet. "Anotheri prisoner, my good lads," said Cap. tain Reginald, as he entered(. - Who is be, captain? who is lie?' chorused half a dozen voic, s together. "His name I have not yet had the pleasure of hearing. Seeing us under the rocks, and be- -ing of an inquirng spirit. lie leaped down among us, and without ceremony, presented himself. Wishing to indulge the Eaid spirit of. inquiry, I persuaded' 'im to accompany me here, and have much pleasure in making you acquainted with him now. He is very urgent to find out what has become of Miss Lawless; and as he is evidently a friend, perhaps a lover, of hers, I could do 1,o less than i)ronise to let him see and console her in her captivity." This speech, which was delivered in-his cue- tomary half-careless, half-mocking tone, was re. ceived wih a cheer and a laugli by the men. Ray, fl,shed and irritated, turned to the speak- er, and said, passionately: Let me see her, then' Where is she?" "Easy, my dear young friend-easy I Get. ting excited and fierce never pays in this world. You will see the young lady time enough." At this moment, the woman Marguerite ap- proached, and laying her hand on her bus band's arm, and fixing her sharp black eyes 0n his face, pointed to Ray, and said something in a low, rapid tone in French. "Yaas," drawled Captain Reginald, passing, his hand carelessly over his thick, black whWl kers, and looking indifferently at the young     man. "ItJls?athWertrange, I ntsied. the re- a^nb1jsey^lf B1 1  ^W ymiawpve?" feshe^ nid .e yo0y "e'e crtiin was pugh- ' .9 de; iald w't I Whe open ceys, unshed cheecs, ap. wonder, 1dei git a d Inqreulity  ,qery feature, Pet stood before iem. Ray's voice had /eadied her ear, and ]halficlinedto doubt the evidence pf her sAenses,' she stood theire, literally rooted, to the ground. Yesthere hie was-hi own proud, fiery, ,h4somie self; id' .forgetting eversthing 'iq her 'dellaht, Pet uttered a cry of joy, and sprang toward him. He took a step forwaird, his faoe flushed with many feelings, and the next moment, for the first time, Pet was held clasped in his arms.  "O Ray! dear Ray! I am so glad!" exclaim- ed Pet, scarcely knowing what she said, in her joy and amazement. "Dearest Ray--my gra- cious! I didn't mean that; but O gay! I am so glad to see you agiin!" "My own Petronilla! my ,dearest love!" he passionately exclaiiped, bending over her. "'How on earthl did you ever find me out, i Ray, stowed away here under the earth?" ask-  ed Pet, wh'se utter amazement at seeing him i here completely overmiaster'ed every other feel- ing. "Who told you these fellows had carried me off to th's black hole 2" "No one-we only suspected it." "And you know, Ray, it was the greatest a mistake all .hrough: They meant to carry off Erminie- tLink of that!-and they took me in a. mistake. I expect they are making an awful t time about it up in the upper-world-..ain'tt they? I suppose papa's gone out of his head  altogether." , "4'our father is not at home, Petronilla. Ranty is nearly distracted." ' "Ranty: Woy, Ray-nmy goodness, Ray! is Ranty: home TV    ' "yes-arrived late last night." Did you ever I And they had to take and carry me off such a contrary time, and I wanted t to sie him so much. Well, if it's not the funni- eat, mpst disagreeable affair, from beginning to  en H  a, ay, o  w did you find me out,  though?" ' 'It was al an accident, I will tell you an: other time. What was the cause of your being ablucted this way, Pet?'  "Why, if you. coming was an aecident, mine  was a, mistLke-thoughl; it was your Erminie, you .know, because I L6ok 'o m eh'like her,. I 'e&^ec.- And, Qwo , what'Pi going to turn u nxt Ar y^oul 0going to take net home?"  "Hardly, I fancy,"  d . a tam Reginald, Pam who, with thre rstjial tis'P me been wawch- i 'them and listening, I - ,9ou, haf'amus- ed n Ry, if tl'aJ 1s nS zsnae. .will hardly get back as easily a  nie "Wihy.. ou h      b  nd! You wouldn't /h e' uiiy u  to eep rm wi)ther h e wanted to o,9t'. ,d     p:  neyes. (d4A"11            V   r   "Sorry to disoblip a 1.dy,hut in ths ,.9.. I fear I mUs$,4"lhe aid bowing sarcasticaly. P 1et, haing  y 'this tme got over;the/fir shfock , her our pe like all the re4t, W "forcibly 'struk ith the resemblance ,bet wep the .smuggler-captain and her handsome eloy ,  H1er bright eye,4 daced, fqr a few second6, fom one t o another, and then pshe burst out with; "',Well, now, itf yu two don't loo,'k ,a mch alike as two .strung mackerels, my name's no Pel4. 1 saj all, along, Ray, you were his very image and Ill lea ve'itto everybody in general if ypu ip't. If you were only twenty year older, and had whiskers sticking'out fromunder. your chin' like ' row of shaving-brushes, you would be as much alike as a couple of pea4s." "Ton my soul, the likeness is stror'nary 1" exclaimed Black Bart, looking from one to an- other. "Y, u look enough alike to  e his mother, cap'n." , "Really, I,feel flattered to resemble a young gentleman half so haiudsome," said the captain, in his customary tone of careless mockery. "Th, resemblance, must be very striking, since it attracts the notice of every onp." "I deelage,.it's real funny!" said Pet. "May- be you wUilL turna, out to be relatives, by-and-by -who knqows? It always ends so in plays and novels, where everybody discovers, at last, they are not theBmselv es at. all, but somebody else." "May I asjk:the name of the gentleman whom I have the honor of resembling?  I hardly think, Miss Lawless, we will turn out to be rela- tives, am I have not one in the wide world," said ,Captain Reginald, with something like a cloud settling on his dark face. "My name is Raymond Germaine," said Ray, coldly.  ic  Germaine! exclaimed the smuggler, statW- ig suddenly and paling slightly,' "did you say Germaine ."  "Yes, sir; what is there extraordinary in that?" asiced Ray, whose arm still encircled Pet. Captain Reginald did not reply, but paced abruptly Up and down the floor for a few mo- ments. All were gazing at him in surprise; but there wee fierce suspcion in the dusky depths of Marguerite's black eyes. He came baok qt last, and resuming his form- er posture, said, but no longer in his cold, sar- castic tone: "I once knew a person of that name, and its utterance recalled strange memories. It is not a very common name here-may I ask if you belong to th)is pace     " . "No;!1Am English by birth, but I have lived here ,since a child." "fEnglish!" He  arte. wildly again, and this time looked at the ypADg ,maiP in a sort ,of terror. "Ye.-or rather, no; for though born in EnglWa4, 1 am not English. I .come of another rae."   , The fixed glance of the smuggler's eyes grew each moment more intense, his/dark face paled and paled, until, contrasting with his jet-black hair and beard, it looked ghastly. His breath came quick and short as he almost gasped: "And that race is-"  "The gipsy! Yes, I am of the degraded gipsy race," exclaimed Ray, with a sort of fierce pride, as though he dared and defied the- world to despise him for that. The smuggler-captain reeled as though some one had struck him a blow, and grasping Ray by the arm, he exclaimed, in a low, husky whis- per: "Tell me who brought you here. You were a child, you say, when you left EnglandT-who had charge of you.?" "My grandmother-a gipsy! What in the name of Heaven, sir, is all this to you," ex- claimed Ray, like the rest completely astounded by this strange emotion. "Her name 1" said the outlaw,. hoarsely, un- heeding his question and the wonder of'the rest. "Among her tribe she was known as the gip- sy-queen, Ketura."1 "Just God!" exclaimed the smuggler-chief, as his grasp relaxed and with a face perfectly colorless he stood like one suddenly turned to stone. "Sir, what under heaven is the meaning of this," said the bewildered Ray, while the rest looked on almost speechless with astonishment. 'There was no reply. The outlaw had leaned his arm on a sort of mantel, and, with his head dropped upon it, stood lilke one stunned by some mighty blow. All were white and mute with wonder. He lifted his head at last, and they started to behold its dreadful ghastliness. His eyes for 'some moments were fixed in a long, inexplica- cable gaze on the surprised face of Ray, then in the same low, hoarse tone, he asked : "And she, your grandmother-does she still live?" "Yes." "Where?" "In Old Barrens Cottage; but she is a help- less paralytic." "8o near, so near! and I never knew it.  Great Heaven! how wonderful is thy dispensa- . tions!" he groaned. "Is it possible you knew her?" asked the be- wildered Ray.  "Yes, I knew her," he replied, slowly. "Tell me, did she ever speak to you of your father?" Ray's brow darkened, and his eyes filled with  a dusky fire.        '  "She did-often. My father was drowned! i He was branded,' tried, convicted, and condemn. ed for the guilt of another. His day of retribu- f tion is to come yet I Enough of this-I cannot t Understand what possible interest all this can have for you."   rI -"You Will soonlearn. Come with me; Miss I Lawless, remain with my wife until my return. : This way, young man," said the outlaw, turning i to the inner apartmenfit,.and motioning the other to precede him.  The astonished Ray did so, and the curtain fell between the wonder-struck assembly out- side and the twain within.  CHAPTER XXXV. THE OUTLAW'S STORY. "They did not know how bate can burn In hearts once changed from soft to'stern, Nor all the false and fatal zeal The convert of reyehge can feel," --BIRoN. "Be seated," said the outlaw, with a wave of his hand. Silent and wondering,-Ray obeyed. His strange companion walked across the room, and lor some moments stood with, knmil brows and downcast eyes, like one absorbed in painful thoughlt. Then he began pacing Ulp and down, while Ray watched him, inward ly wondering whether 'this half- smuggler- haltf-pirate captain was quite right in his mind. He stopped, at last, in his quick, excited walk as rapidly as he had commenced it, and facing round to where Ray sat, demanded: "Why did my-this gipsy, Ketura, leave Eng, land 2" "I do not know-she never told me," replied Ray.         .  . "Old Earl De Courcy died shortly after I, her son, left England-perhaps she was instru. mental in his death and was obliged to fly." "Of that I know nothing," said Ray, impa- tiently. "What has all this to do with the revelations you are to make?" "Not much, perhaps; but I wish my ques, tions answered. You say she resides iu Old Barrens cottage?" "Yes." "You live there, too, with her of course? "Yes." "If she is, as you say, a helpless paralytic, how has she contrived to support and educate you-for I perceive you are educated?" "It was-not she who did it. I am indebted for my education to the kindness of an old gen- tleman who resides near us," said Ray, flushing and biting his lit) till it was bloodless. "Who attends to her now, in her helples- ness?" - "Erminie and her servant." "Erminie who)? Oh I I remember; Miss Law- less spoke of some Erminie Germaine, who was to have been brought here instead of her. Who is this Erminie?" "I cannottgl. My grandmother brought tus rom England together--bshe was a mere infant, ;hen."   . -"Perhaps she is. your sister?" "No;. her yery looks forbid such a s8upoui-     tion. TI'at there is no gipsy blood in her veins, I am confident." "And gipsy Ketura brought her from Eng- land? Strange-strange! Who can she be?" said the outlaw, musingly. "She has often spoken to you of the De Courcy family, no doubt?"  "Yes, often."      .      . "Did she tell you Lord Ernest Villirse mar- tied Lady Maude Percy?" "She did." "Do you know if they had any children?" "I do not know." "She never told you?" "Never," said Ray, wondering where this "Catechism of Perseverance" was to end. "Strange, strange-very strange!" said the outlaw, pacing up and down, with byows knit, in deep thought. "And so you are determined to avenge the wrongs of your fattier, yotnng man?" hd said, after a pause, stopping before him again,. "Yes, Heaven helping me, I will!" exclaimed Ray, fiercely.      \ "Heaven?" said the outlaw, with his old, sneer. "I t is the first time I ever heard Heav- en aided, revenge; Satan helping you, you' mean. And how is this revenge to be accom- plished?"!  "Time will tell," said Ray, impatiently. "It cannot eoicerai you in any way, Captain Regi- naldl; and on this subject you need ask me no E more questions, for I will not answer them." "As you please," said-- he, with a strange smile. "You have inherited the fiery, passion- ate spirit of your race, I see. Your father is, you say, drowned?"  "Yes-yes I To what end are all these ques- tions?" "Patience, Mr. Germaine; I will come to that presently! Did your grandmother ever speak to you of your mother?"  "Very little," said Ray, in a softer tone. t "She told me she never saw her, but that she was a lady of rank. That, however, I am in-  clined to doubt." "And Whly?" "BecauSe my father was a gipsy. No lady r of rank, k#owhlg it, woi. I have anything to do with one of his class. Proud England's t proud daughters would not mate with despised gipsies."'  A streak of fiery red darted for a moment t across the dark face of Captain Reginald, and then passed away, leaving it whiter than be-.  fore.  "Love I vels all distinctionsryoung sir, ' he said, haughtily. "  If she loved him, would hot that be sufficient to break through all the cob- web barriers of rank? Have not all social ties been proven, thousands of times, to be more flimsy than paper walls before the irresistible 'thiriwind bf human love and passion?"  e 1       psso   ,  Ray thought of Pet, and his dark cheek flush- ed slightly. What a convenient belief this - would be, dared he adopt it! - He loved her, and ' thrilling through his heart came the conviction i that she loved him. Would she, too, break down these " paper walls" for his sake? Would she give up all the world for him, as thousands /had done before, according to this strange man's ( story. "Your mother was a lady of rank-is a lady of rank, for she still lives!" were the ne xt words, spoken rapidly and excitedly, that aroused him from his dangerous reverie. "My mother lives?" exclaimed Ray, spring- ing to his feet. "Yes." - "Great Heaven! Where?" "In England, most probably." "My mother lives? Can it be possible? Who is she? What is her name?" demanded Ray, like one beside himself. "Lady Maude Villiers, Countess De Courcy!" exclaimed the outlaw, while his dark, fierce eyes blazed. Ray stood for an instant paralyzed; then an expression of anger and utter incredulity flush- ed his face and flashed from his eyes. "My mother the Countess De Courey!" he said, scornfully. "Do you mistake me for a fool, Captain Reginald?" "Young man, before high Heaven I swear I speak the truth!" said the outlaw, solemnly. "Did not Ketura tell you the manner in which your father's marriage was brought about?" ' "That he inveigled my mother into it by some unlawful means? Yes ; she told me that. But, good heavens! the idea of it being Lady Maude Percy! Oh, it is absurd, ridiculous, in- credible, impossible!" exclaimed Ray, vehe- mently. "It is the truth! Reginald Germaine, look me in the face, and see if I am not speaking the truth." Yes; no one could look in those dark, sol- emn eyes and doubt his words. Stunned, giddy, bewildered, Ray dropped into his seat, feeling as if the room was whirling round him. "And you-who, in Heaven's name, are you, that know all this?" he passionately asked. "That I will tell yolu presently. Suffice it to say that 1 do know that I am speaking God's truth." "Angels in heaven I the Countess De Courcy my mother? From whom did you learn this?" "From your father." "My father is dead." "Your father is not." "What?" "Your father is not dead!" "Sir, you are either mad or mocking me? exclaimed Ray, springing fiercely to his feet.   f "Young man,. I am neither." "My father was drowned on his way to Van Dieman's Land." "Your father was not." "Great Heaven! am I sane or mad?" ex- claimed Ray, in a loud, thrilling tone. "Man, demon, devil! whoever you are, was not the transport wrecked on her way from England?" "She was." "And all on board lost'?"    "No." "No?" "No; I repeat it. All were lost but two- your father was one of these." "Heaven of heavens I! And where is my fa- ther now?" "That, too, you will learn anon. If you please, we will take things in the order of their occurring. Listen, now. Sit down, and be calm; getting excited will do no good, and only retard matters. The transport struck a sunken reef, and was wrecked, one stormy night. Your father and one sailor clung to a spar until day- light. By that time, all the rest had disappear- ed -were ingulfed in the ocean, and perished. Captain, sailors, convicts, and all were equal, at I lst, in the boundless sea. Before noon, the nextday, your father and the sailor were seen, and picked up bv a passing vessel." "Were you that sailor?' "Patience, my deal sir," said Captain Regi- nald, with a slight smile; " who I was, does not matter just now. the smp was a merchant- man, bound to a far-distant port. They took us with them and over a year elapsed before our sails filled fnr 'Merrie England' again. We were in the South Seas-then, as now,. infested with pirates; and we never reached our island- home. For one day we were chased, overtaken, attacked, and defeated by a pirate, and more than half our number found graves in the wide ocean, where many a brave heart had grown cold before, and will while the great sea rolls." & We?" broke in Ray, at this point, fixing his eyes piercingly on the other's face - "we? Then you were the sailor saved with my fa- ther?" Again that fleeting, quickly-fading, inexplica- ble smile flickered for an instant round the lips of the outlaw, as he said: "Hasty and impatient yet. You must learn that great Christian virtue, patience, Mr. Ger- maine; one cannot well get through the world without it. Whether I was the sailor in ques- tion, or not, 'does not matter; suffice it to say, I was on board the ship when she was mastered nv the pirates. They were short of hands, and the captain very graciously offered their lives to those that remained, on condition of their taking an oath of allegiance to him, and becom- ing rovers and free lords of the high seas. One or two honest souls preferred the red maws of hungry sharks who went swimming round the -   ships, casting longing eyes up at us, asking, nas plainly as looks could speak, for another month- ful of an old salt. They were gratified, too; for three of as good, brave, warm-hearteid fel- lows as ever climbed the rigging walked the plank that hour, and found their graves in the capacious stomachs of the ravenous devils of sharks. Poor fellows! if there is such a place as heaven, they went there straight; for heaven is as easily reached by water as land. I sup- pose it ioesn't matter whether people are con- veyed to it in canvas shroud. or inside of sharks." "Very true," Paid Ray; "and you joined the pirates to aid my father?" "Yes, we joined them; I was reckless and so was he; we did not care a fillip whether we cruised under the black flag or the' red cross of St. George. Life was not of much value to him for its own sake, but he had to live for sundry notions-revenge, I fancy, being the strongest. Then he had a child living-you, Master Raymond; and though considerable of a devil himself, he had some human feeling left, and the only white spot in his soul was his love for you, for his mother, and Lady Maude Percy. For he loved her then, loves her still, and will while life remains for him." "And yet she scorned him," said Ray, with flashing eyes and dilating nostrils. "Yes, shle scorned him," said the outlaw, "no one else could have done it and live. But he loved her, and though he had resolved never to see'her more, yet her memory and that of her child were the only bright spots remaining in his darkened life. Well, Mr. Germaine, he sailed along with the pirates. They were a motley assembly, that crew-men from every nation, whom crime, wrong, revenge, hatred, or any other dark, dreadful cause had driven together here to wage eternal war against the world they hated, and find their only delight in scenes of blood, pilllage, and murder. There were French, Spanish, Italian, English, Corsicans, and Heaven knows what besides, all jabbering together there-raising the most infernal commotion sometimes, when they got drinking and fighting, that ever shamed Babel. -The discipline was pretty strict, about as strict as it could by any possibility be among such a gang, but they would break out at times, and then the diabol- ical regions themselves might have found it hard to raise such scenes as ensued. There were worse crimes than murder committed, sometimes, by these human fiends: your father never took part in them, though; the memory of the past kept him from that. Standing 'by myself sometimes, after witnessing things that would make your blood curdle. I used to wouder if there was a deep enugh pit in Hell for these fellows when I was young, I used to believe in such a place, Mr. Germaine, no doubt you do     pow ;, but somehow I got oyver that and sundry other pleasant beliefs of late years. Though whenever I think of what I saw and heard on board that o ursed floating pandemonium, I wish, frnam the bottom of my soul, there was one to grill them alivd for their deeds in the flesh. .. "Did my father ever take part in these hor- rible scenes?" asked Ray, with a plight shud- der. "o, neverl" replied the outlaw, emphatic- ally; ", ypur father had been a gentleman once, and his whole natute revolted against this bru- tality. No, lie neverjoined these fearful revels, but he fought like the very fiend himiself in open warfire, especially against the English ships. When they were attacked, he was worth the whole pirate crew together. He fought, and cat, and clove, and slashed them, like the devil an all his angels. Burning and smarting still under the seniise of his mighty wrongs aud degradatiqns, he seemed determined to wipe out all his sufferings in their blood. Many an English heart grew cold in death to atone for the wrong one of their countrymen had done him. Ho had vowed vengeance against the whole na ion, iand I doubt whether St. Senanus himself lkept a vow more religiously both in letter and spirit.  "Well Mr. Germaine, we cruised along with these sea wolves for some four or five months, and kept on at our old trade of throat-cutting  plank-wa]king, scuttling, sinking, and burning hips ometimes, to vary the amusement, uav breat&e a spell, we used to go ashore and  raise old Nick generally among the peaceable i jnlmbitans of various sea-port towns and cities. 'These places very soon got too hot to hold us, a and we never ventured back to the same place o twice,; for some of the men getting tender-heart, t. at times, would take a fancy to the pretty  wives and daughters of the gpod citizens, and  carry off tvo or three of them for the benefit of a sea-air. Of course there always was the devil  to pay when these little escapadeswere found out,  and it was like running our heads into a hornets'- nest to go back. Your father wished to go to t Englhnm and see after you, I fancy, but there f a no opportunity. lie managed to make his b ?sqape, htwever, ater a long time; gave the a high-sea wolves leg-bai! one moonlight night,  nand was Itff. e reache4 England in safety,  d thr, the first news/he had wasshis own death, and the marriage f Lady Maude Percy  to tieson fhslt nemny, Lord Ernest Villers. "Tho n ws nealy droyve  im mad, for ,hio' love, for hat" most. I  autIful ,lady amopnted J tofrensy.  is intenli' . een ' seekby u p1nt; but w4 ea w  he ex  old demon - r se,e h , f-e ,f,. I, ..g.,.:as ..       him ra4'iaetT Ittill    ^Meh4 te pha We c who,'h itrT  h Wa^ S0lqf y-t  uest ;bis(   I i "Well, he found them, gave some plausible h, reasonlfor his absence, and was admittedamong an that happy band of Christian brothers once I more. He reachgd them just in the nick of as time, too; for their commander was dead, and e the whole crew were plunged, in deepest afflic- tion about it, as they were never likely to find t- another who could kill, slay, burn, and murder I- all before him, and send insubordinate sailors to kingdom come, with a rap of a marlin-spike, as - neatly as he could. ,Your hfather had, from the , first, been an immense favorite with them, and I- had obtained that powerful ascendency over ;, them that men of refined and strong minds a- ways possess over coarse, brute natures; and besides, he had the amiable qualities of his. lamented and accomplished predecessors in a , high degree. Therefore, no sooner did he arrive than he was unanimously, and with one accord, elected to the vacant command, I and stood in the shoes of the never-to-be. sufficiently-mourned-for Captain Diago, who, having served his Satanic Majesty like a faith- ful servant for five-and-twenty-years in this whirligig world, went to aid him in keeping the Kingdom Infernal in order, with five eonces of lead through his skull. "Well, Mr. Germaine, under the command of your worthy father, who, by the way, dropped hiM alias of Germaine when he first joined the pirates, the 'Diable Rouge' as  we called, very appropriately, our ship, did a flourlishing -business, and sunk more goodly vessels belonging to their, various Christian Majesties than all the other gay crafts sail- ing under the black flag at the time. He did some good, too, among his own crew-put a stop to all their not-easily-to-be told excesses, of more kinds than one, and let them know they had found their' master at last. They were inclined to rebel, and did rebel at first; but he very coolly took out a brace of pistols and shot two of the ringleaders of the mutiny dead; and then, inma speech, much shorter than sweet, gave them   to- understonid that every symptom of insubordination would, for the fu- ture, be put a stop to in the same gentle and fatherly Way. Well, Mr. Germaine, would you believe it, instead of flying into a rage at this; anid kicking up a rumpus, they immediately conceived an immense respect forhim, and from that day' no Caliph Haroun Alraselfchid ever reign- ed it more royalUy-over his-bastinadoed subjects than did Captain Re--- your father, ont board the I  Red Devil.' . On board a French privateer; that we sentto Davy Jones' one night: we found a lotof: ladies; ;and after sending their mascu- ine friendsto a!other, and it is to be hoped, a bette world, we transferred the fair portidn of the va'go' to 0our ownship., ;tlgwae nothing un- ousal forus', take ladies ia this Way; ,but sice your father took c-eonimand;,they. werd always wlA aadresrectfUlly treated, and lauded at the   frst' port we touched, well supplied with moiney, and left to maie tihe, best of their way hoime. Therefore, our haviing three or four of the dear Creatures on board now vould not- have been worthy of notice, had not one of them, a most beautiful French girl, and a daughter of a great magnate of the land-a marquisde something- took it into her head to fall in love with our dare-devil of a capt.'Iin-; and when- the ship ar- rived at the place where the rest were to be landed, mademoiselle absolutely 'put her foot down,' to use a common expression,' and flatly refused to leave him. In vain he expostulated: told her he did- not love her; that the life he led was too lanuerous for her to think of shar- ing; that his life was never safe for two consec- utive minutes; that she would be wretched with him, and so 'brth; in fact, he talklied to her as if he had been the greatest old anchorite that ever looked upon the adorable sex as a special invention of Satan-the whole thing was the old story of St. Revere and Cathleen, over again. Mademoiselle wouldn't listen to reason, and determined to have him it any price. Our moral young captain hesitated at'first; but she was young, beautiful, ',rounded and ripe,' and he was only frail flesh and blood like' the rest of us; and the result of all her tears - and pleadings was, that one evening they both went on shore to- gether, and perpetrated downright matrimony, in free and easy defiance of all the statutes and by-laws against bigamy that ever were made. Perhaps he thought he had made enough mis- erable for life, and that there might be some merit, after all, in making this infatuated young creature happy. It is really wonderful how girls, all the world over, will cling to the most undesirable set of men, black-legs, pugilists, loafers, all sorts of outlawed people, and give the cold shoulder to sensible, straight-forward, every-dhy Christians. You may talk to themi till your tongue aches, and show them the evil of their ways in the' most glaring colors, their reply will be: ' I love him,' and after that you might as well try to 'drain the Atlantic with a teaspoon, as to makethem give hini up; they'll cling to him like a barnacle to the bottom of an old ship. But hold on I 'it won't do to indulge in a train of moral reflections; -for if I begin, I won't kndw when to stop. . "Well, our captain took his pietty 'wife th sea With:him--fot, though he offeired to proeuite aWhome' for her on any part of the globe, she would'not hear of leaving him. He wid totally! tunWorthy of such strong, passionate love 'as she lavished upon him; but he did all he 0Could, Under the circumstances; to make' h 'her Hiappy. He liked her, she was 'sni: a staomW-koving, brave-hiearted girl-but hbie i'dii "it, c'uld hot, love her/ It :Iedetnd adif all love 'iad -did odt of his heart until the1bi'tte 'of'hii little darlg- tdr, atd'thea soiae'of the oldastimbeiHtg affeio. tiori aw!re, d and etredia'h,.      - I   "After her birth, his better nature, or what remained of it, seined to awake, and he grew tired and sick of the' evil life lie led. He had glutted his vengeance sufficiently already; and she was continually urging him to give it up . and now that time had calmed 'his feelings eon'eer-,n ing the marriage of Lady Maude, lie wished to return to England and seek out his other child. Such was his cOatinual resolve, but still nearly two years elapsed before he carried it into effectf At the end'of that time lle' gave up his com- mand of the ' Diable Rouge' to the chief mate and with his wife and little dark-eyed dalghiet Rita, set out for'Entigland. No one knew him there ; time and a tropical sun' had changed him wonderfully, st he was free to pursue his investigations unmolested. He made every in- quiry about his mother and son; but, of course, they were in vain, since, long before, they had left for this place. "But Fate, as if now tired of showering blows upon him, had still another in reserve for him. Hlis little daughter, Rita, was lost one day in the great wilderness of Londo, and he' never saw or heard of her after." .' Captain Reginald paused for a moment and averted his face, while Ray continued to listeni with breathless interest. "His wife nearly went crazy," continued Captain Reginald, at last, lifting his head and speaking very rapidly; "she waSi crazy for a time, and lie-he grew desperate. He did not rejoin the piriates--his very soul loathed them- but he became a reckless'man. He roamed the world over, smuggled, ran into danger, expos- ed himself to death every ,lay-and lived through all. His wife aceonipanied him in every danger; she never left his side during all these long, long sorrowful years. Fate, Providence-a superior ower of some sort--drove him to this coast; he found this cave, made it one of his rendek- vous, and often' came here, without dreamliig in the most remote way that his mniother and' son were within a stone's throw of him. Truly, 'as I said, this' world is full of paper Walls, whet mother, and father, and son dwell so near,'and never tntil now miiet." He paused and ceme ove'r to Ray. He start- ed to his feet, and confronted the stralige narrat- or with wonder-wide eyes. "Restored ndwP: ha said, wildly. "And have they met at last?" "They have," replied the outlaw, with a strange; sad smile. "My father 'mi' att i where is he r cried Ray, hSal'deilhios/with all these revelationI .  '"He  a-id ebide yolu (I am your ftltie t" wa theth^l&^.aagtWes.     CHAPTER XXXVII. 'I   ff   THB ATTACK. i " - Then more fierce the conflict grew,; the din of arms ; the yell Of sayvage rage , the shriek of agony; The groans of death, commingled with one sound, Of undistinguished horrors." -SOUTHEY., Silent, motionless, speechless, with surprise and many contending emotions, Ray stood gaz- ing on his new-found father, like one suddenly stricken 4(umb. And with one hand resting on the young man's shoulder, the outlaw stood be- fore him, ilooking'in his pale, wild, excited face, with a strange, sad smile. "Mdrea  fther " repted Ray, like one in a dream.       1 "Yes, even so; you have little cause, I fear, to be proud of the relationship. In the brand- ed outlaw, emuggler, and pirate, Captain Regi- nald, you behold him who was once known as the Count Germaine, the husband of the beauti- ful high-born Lady Maude Percy, and 'your father. Strange, strange, that we should meet thus." * For some moments Ray paced up and dowen the floor rapidly and excitedly, with a face from which every trace of color had fled. His father stood watching him, one arm leaning on a sort of mantel, with a look half proud, half sad, "Ialf bitter, commingled on his still-fine face. "I see you are not disposed to acknowledge the relationship between us, sir," he said, al- most haughtily, "Well, I own you are not to blame for that. Let us part as we met first, as strangers; ;you go your way, and I will con- 1 tinue mine. The world need never know thiat  you are aught to the outlawes rove    f ie You are free, sir; free to go, and to take Miss i Lawless with you, if you choose. I did wish to i see my poor old mother before I left, but, per- haps, it is better as it is. I will leave this part  of the world altogether, and return no more; the son of ,Mude Percy, the one love of my t erime darkened life will never be compromised a by me." There was something unspeakably sad in the e proud, cold way this was said, compared with the deep melancholy, the bitter remorse in his I dark eyes. There were tears that did honor to his manly heart in Ray's eyes, as he came over c and held out his hand'. "My father, you wrong me," he said, earnest- 'l; "'it was from no such unworthy feeling Itl hesitated to reply. These revelations came so t suddenly, so unexpectedly, that for the time be. ing I was stunned, and unable to comprehend all clearly. Outlaw or rtt, you are my father still; and as such, we will leave the world and its  scorn together. If your crimes have been v: great, so nave your wrongs; and let him who is a without sin cast the first stone." The hands of father and' son met in a strong, p   earnest clasp; but the outlaw's face was avert- ed, and his strong chest rose and fell like the waves of a tempest-tossed sea. - At this moment the curtain was pushed aside, and the Frenchwoman, Marguerite, stood before them.               "Well, Marguerite," said the outlaw, looking up. e  "Did you expect any of the men to rieturn :- to-night?" she asked, looking with the same y glance of sharp suspicion from one to the other. "No. Why?" "Some of them are without; they have giv. en the signal." "Oh, well, tell Bart to await them. I did not expect them, but something may have brought them back. Admit them at once." The woman turned and left the room, and the - outlaw, looking at Ray, said, with a sad smile: "Poor Marguerite! she has been faithful through all, clinging to me withl a love of which I am utterly unworthy. 'Poor Marguerite I she was deserving of a better fate." "I suppose she has now quite recovered from the loss of her child," said Ray. "Never she has never been the same since. Dear Rita! sweet little angel! Oh! Raymond, I loved that child as-" The sentence was interrupted in a blood-chil- ling manner enough. From the distant entrance of the cave came a wild ,hout of alarm, then an exulting cheer, lost a the sharp report of fire-arms and' the trampling of many feet. Ia! what means this?" exclaimed the out- law, as he dashed the curtain aside, and, closely Jfjlowed by Ray, stood in the outer apartment. The men were already on their feet, gazing in alarm in each other's faces, and involuntarily grasping their weapons. In the midst of them stood Pet and the Frenchwoman, listening in surprise and vague alarm. Still the noise continued. Shouts, cheers. the trampling of feet, and the report of fire-arms, all commingling together. At the same instant Black Bart and two others rushed in, all cover- ed with blood, and shouting: "Betrayed I betrayed I that devil's whelp, Rozzel Garnet, has betrayed us, and the reve- nue-officers are upon us red hot. Here they come with that d-d white-livered dog among them," yelled Black Bart, as he rushed in. "Come with me, this is no place for us," said the woman, Marguerite, as she seized Pet by the arm, and dragged her into the inner apart- ment. In rushed the officers of the law, some twen- ty in all, three times the number of the smug- glers; and their leader, in a loud authoritative voice, commanded them to lay down their arms and surrender in the name of the law.' "Go tothe devil 1" was Black Bart's-civil re. ply, as he took deliberate aim, aud saent a bullet   whistling through the heart of the unfortunate man. A shout of rage arose from the officers at the fall of their leader, and they rushed precipitate- ly upon the outlaws. But their welcome was a warm one; for the pirates, well-knowing what would be their fate if captured alive, fought like demons, and soon the uproar in the vaults grew fearful. "On my brave fellows, on!" shouted Captain Reginald; "* death here, if we must die, sooner than on the gallows. Ha! there goes Rozzel Garnet, the cursed infernal villain. He at least shall not escape." He raised his pistol, a sharp report followed, and a shriek of mortal agony; Rozzel Garnet bounded up in the air, and then fell heavily, shot through the brain. The conflict now waxed fast and furious ; but desperate as the smugglers were, they could not long hold out against three times their number, men better armed and prepared than them- selves. The revenue officers closed on them; and in an incredibly short space of time, three of the smugglers were securely bound, while three more lay stark and dead, on the blood- stained siipperyv floor of the cave. Three times'during the conflict had the arm of Ray Germaine interposed to save his father's life, as he fought withl the desperation of mad- ness. But his single arm was unavailing to turn the fortune of war, anid he saw his men falling helpless on every side of him. Still, he fought on with such desperate fierceness, that the rev- enue officers at last closed on him, and bore him bleeding and wounded to the ground. The conflict was ended, the revenue-officers were victorious; but the victory 'was dearly bought, for more than half their number lay wounded or dead on the floor. They paused now, drew a long breath, and wiped the perspir- ation off their heated and inflamed faces. Wounded and bleeding, the outlaw chief lay on the ground. Half delirious with conflicting feelings, Ray knelt beside him, and strove to staunch the flowing blood. "It is useless," he said, with a faint smile; "I have received my death-wound. Call Mar- guerite; I would see her before I die, and tell my mother, my poor mother-would to God I could see her, too, once more," he said, while a look of bitter sorrow and remorse passed over his pale face. "You shall not dle here!" exclaimed Ray, impetuously, starting up; "and you shall see  her, in spite of them all. Mr. Chlesny," he ad- ded, turning to the present leader of the reve- nue-officers, " will you permit some of your men to bear Captain Reginald up to Old Barrens Cot- tage immediately r  The gentleman addressed, who knew Iay in- timately, turned round iii surprise. In the heat of the conflict, he had not perceived him,   I and now he looked his astonishment at the un- expected rencontre. "You here, Mr. Germaine!" he exclaimed. - "Why, how comes this?" "I was brought here a prisoner-never mind ; that," said Ray, impatiently; " will you per- D mit me to have this wounded man removed?" "Impossible, my dear fellow. He is the no- torious leader of this villainous gang-an out- law with a price on his head. I am responsible for his safe delivery into the hands of justice." "And those hands he will never reach I Do you not see he is dying?" said Ray, passionate. ly. "Look at him, Chesny; do you think you could bring him to Judestown in that state? Do you think he would ever reach it alive?" "Mr. Germaine, I should like to oblige you-" "Do it, then. Let me bring him to the cot- tage, and I will be responsible for his not escap- ing. Nonsense, Chesny  You see it is impos- sible for him to be taken further. You must have him taken there. Sure some of you may guard the house if you fear his escaping." "Be it so, then.  Come, boys, construct something to carry this wounded man to Old Barrens Cottage on. Hallo Miss Lawless, by all that's glorious!" exclaimed the officers" as Pet, with Marguerite, appeared from the inner room.        t "How do you do, Mr. Chesny? Oh, what a dreadful night this has been!" said Pet, with a shudder. "Good Heavens! is Captain Regi- nald dead?" she exclaimedl, in consternation. "No; wounded only; he is to be conveyed to Old Barrens' Cottage. How in the world did you get here, Miss Pet?" Oh, they carried me off.  Rozzel Garnet did." ", Well, you are the last he will carry off, I fancy. Here he lies!" said the man, touching the stark, ghastly form slightly with his foot. "Dead!" said Pet, turning pale. "Yes; the smuggler-chief there sent a bullet through him the first thing; and served him right, too, for peaching as he did, the mean cuss! Hurry up boys! Oh! you've got through I see. Lift him on it, now -gently, gently, there, you have stopped the blood, I see, Ger- maine; that's right. Ha I whom have we here?" he exclaimed, as his eyes fell on the woman Marguerite, who, white and cold as he by whose side she knelt, held the head of the wounded chief on her breast, and gently wiped the cold sweat off his face. "Who is the woman?" "' His wife," said' Ray, in a low tone. "Let her accompany him. Miss Lawless, will ,yoi accept my escort from this den of horrors?" "O Ray! what a night this has been I And oh, I am' so sorry, Captain Reginald is wountd- ed. Do you know, I liked him; real well!" Ray made no reply. In silence he drew Pet's arm through his, and she looking at him, w**     almost startled to see his face, so stern, so set, lo fearfully white.  The men bearing the wounded form of Cap- tain Reuginald had already. started from the cave. Marguerite, who had uttered but one passionate exclamation, followed, still and si- lent, and then came Ray and Pet, with a few of the revenue officers bringing up the rear. The melanchbly procession passedfrom the gloomy cave, no r indeed a cave of horrors, with its bloody and unburied dead; and Pet drew a long, deep breath of intense relief and thankfulness as she stood once more in the open air. "Let nme run on first and tell Erminie," said Pet. "it mr y startle her if she is not fore- warned ; and then, if you like, I will ride to Judestown for the doctor, There can be no danger now." Ray, who would not leave his father, consent- ed; and Pet darted off, over the slippery shin- gle and 'ip the rocks, like a young mountain- deer. The iien proceeded slowly with their burden, who lay with his white face upturned in the sad, solemn starlight; and who may tell the bitter, bitter, remorseful thoughts of tlhe dark, sor'owfIl past swelling in his proud heart there. Pay and Marguerite, one on each side, were muie, too. He, with his eyes alternately fixed on he ground, and on the wounded man's face, trying to realize the astounding revela- tions of the night; she looking straight before her into the darkness, with her customary look of fierce, sullen despair, looking what she was- a wretched broken-hearted woman. There'were lights and a subdued bustle in the cottage When they reached, it. Erminie, white and trembling, met them at the door. Pet had told her all so breathlessly, and then had mounted Ray's horse and darted off for Judes- town so quickly, that, Erminie even vet only half comprehended what had taken place. There was no time now for explanation, how- ever, Tle wounded man was laid on the large soft lounge in the parlor; and then Chesny, leaving one of his men as guard, more, for form's sale than anything else, took his depar- ture. "Wher? is my grandmother, Erminie?" ask- ed Ray, whose white, stern face had terrified her from the first.      .  "In be." "Then go up and waken her." "Wakefi her at this hour! I Wh, Ray!" "Yes; iyou must, I tell you. Go at once." Ray's fiercely-impatient manner and strange excitement terrified Erminie more and more; but still she ventured to lift up her voice in feeble expostulation.  "What good will it do to arouse her? She can be of no service here." "Ermirie, I tell you, you must!" passionate- ly exclaimed Ray; " else I will go myself. Of no service here! Yonder dying man is her son   -her long-lost son-supposed to have been drowned. Will you go, now?" One moment's astounded pause, and then Er- minie flew up-stairs, and entered the aged gip- sy's room. She was lying asleep; but she never slept soundly, and she opened her eyes and looked up as Erminie entered. "Well, what is the matter?"' she said, curtly "O grandmother! you must get up!" cried Erminie, in strong agitation, - There is a man down stairs wishes to see you." "A man wishing to see me? What do yor mean!" asked the gipsy, knitting her dark brows.' "O grandmother I there is news of-of-your son."  "My son! are you going mad, girl?" cried Ketura, getting up on her elbows unassisted, for the first time in years; and glaring upon her with her hollow, lurid eyes.       , "O grandmother! grandmother! we were deceived-you were decerved-Ray says he was not drowned." "Not drowned!"She passed her hand over her face with a bewildered look. "No; it was a false report. He lives!" With a sharp, wild cry-a strange, eerie cry, breaking the dead silence of the night, the woman Ketura strove to rise. The effort was a failure. She fell back, while every feature was distorted with wildest agony. "Girl girl! what have you said?" she cried out. "Did you say my son-my Reginald-- lives?" "He does! he lives! He is here to see you once more before lie dies," said Ray, entering abruptly. "Hasten, Erminie I there is no time to lose." He quitted the room as abruptly as he had entered it, and Erminie approiched the bed to assist Ketura to dress. The gipsy lay like one stunned, her wild, hollow eyes rolling vacantly, her hands so tightly clenched that the nails sank into the skin. It was evident she could not yet fully realize or comprehend what she had heard; tlihe words had stunned her, numb- ing all sense and feeling. Erminie lost no time in talking. Swiftly she proceeded to array the gipsy in a large, wadded gown, something like a gentleman's robe de chambre, of dark, soft woolen stuff. Ketura qui- etly submitted, breathing hard and fast, and glaring with her wild, unearthly eyes round the room, trying still, to realize what she had heard -that her son still lived. This done, Erminie ran down stairs and ap- prised Ray. "Now, how is she to be taken down stairs?" she asked, "Remember, she has nor left her room for years.", Ray was walking rapidly up and down the room, but paused when the low, sweet voice of   Erminie fell on his ear. The Frenchwoman Marguerite, who was kneeling beside her hus band, gazing fixedly upon him, looked up foi an instant, and then resumed her unwavering gaze, as before.  "I will place her in her chair and carry her down," said Ray, as he took the staircase almost at a bound. Theye was little difficulty in doing this; for the gaunt, powerful frame of the once majestic gipsy-queen, wasted and worn by illness and old age, was light and easily lifted, now. Ray took her in his strong arms and placed her gen- tly in her large elbow-chair, and tlhen proceed- ed to convey her below. She laid her haud on his arm, and looked up in his face with a piteous look. "O Ray! what have you old me,? Is Regi- nald living still?"' It was so strange and so sad to hear her-that haughty, fierce, passionate woman-speak iin a tone like thlat, quick tears rushed to the gentle eyes of Erminie. "Yes, he is living-he is down stairs; but lihe has only come' here to die!" answered Ray, hur- riedly. "O Reginald! Reginald! O my son! thank God for this!" she passionately cried out.  For many and many a year that sacred name had never crossed her lips. It sent a thrill, now, through the heart of Ray, as he bore her into the room where the wounded man lay. Who shall describe that meeting? Long, long years of darkest crime and wildest woe had intervened since that lowering, lamentable day on which they had parted last. Years full of change, and sorrow, and sin, and remorse- years that had changed the powerful, passion- ate, majestic gipsy-queen into the helpless, pow- erless paralytic, she was now-years that had  changed the handsome, high-sliirited, gallant  youth into the bronzed, hardened, guilty man  lying there dying-passing slowly out into the dread unknown. Yet, despite time, and change,  and years, they knew each other at the first  glance. "Mother," said the smuggler, with a faint, strange smile.  "O my son! my son!    O my Reginald! my only son!" was her passionate cry. Has the great sea given up its dead, that I see you  again?"  "You with all the World were deceived, moth - er. When I. am   gone, you will learn all. f Mother, I have only come here to die."   Her feeblle' arms were clasped around him; she did not seem to heed his words, as her de- b vouring eyes were riveted on his face. ' Ho lay breathing quickly and laboriously, his face full B of bitter sadness as he saw the wreck of what h, had once been his mother. The woman Mar- guerite had drawn back, and stood gazing on of Ketura with a sort of still amaze. Ray was p   n, I leaning against the mantel, his elbow resting on s- it, and his face shaded by his dark, falling hair; 6r and Ermimie, crouched on a low seat, white and g trembling, sat watching all. So they remained for a long time, the dull, heavy ticking of the er clock and a death-watch on the wall alone st breaking the dreamy silence. It was an eerie scene and an eerie hour, and a feeling of strange awe made Erminie hold her very breath, won. dering how this strange, unnatural silence was i to end. The quick, sharp gallop of horses' feet broke - it, at last; and the next instant, Pet, flushed aind - excited, burst in, followed by the doctor anid by Ranty. All paused in the doorway, and stood regarding, with silent wonder, the scene before them. Ray lifted his head, and going over, touched Ketura on the arm, saying, in a low voice: '    "Leave him for a moment; here is the doe- tor come to examine his wounds." Her weak arms were easily unclasped, and she permitted herself to be borne away. Of all the strange things that had occurred that night, none seemnied stranger to Ray than this sudden and wonderful quietude that had come over his fierce, passionate grandmother. The doctor approached his patient to exam- ine his wounds, and Pet, going over, began con- versing in a low tone with Erminie, telling her how she had encountered Ranty. Ray stood watching the doctor with interest and anxiety; and as, after a prolonged examination, he arose, he approached him and said, hurriedly: "Weir, doctor?" The doctor shook his head. "He may linger two, three days, perhaps, but certainly not longer. Nothiing can save him",' Ray's very breath seemed to stop as he liStil'-  ed, till it became painful for those around to listen for its return. The wounded man him. self looked up and beckoned Ray to approadh. "I knew I was done for," hhe said, with a fee-. ble smile. "I was surgeon enough to know it was a mortal wound. How long does he say I may live?" "Two or three days," said Ray, in a chohdng voice. "So long?" said the smuggler, a dark shade passing over hisface. "I did not think to eum- ber the earth such a length of time. How does she bear it?" pointing to his mother. "She has not heard it yet; she seems to have fallen into a surt of unnatural apathy. The shock has been too much for her." "Poor mother!" hhe said, in that same tone of bitter remorse Ray had heard him use before'; "her worst crime was loving me too well. Bring her here; I have something to say to her which may as well' be said now." Ray carried over the almost mniotionless, form of the' aged gipsy. Thle stricken lioness was a pitiable sight in her aged helplessness.     1         . ",Mother," said the smuggler, taking the withered, blackened hand in his, and looking sadly in the v:acant face, that seemed striving to comprehend what had stunned her and be- wildered her s' strqngely. His voice reoalled her again, and she turned her hollow eyes upon him. Awful eyes they were-like red'hot coals in a beached skull. "Mother, listen to me. I jiave but a short time to live, aid I cannot die till I learn if you have kept yoer vow of vengeance, made long ago against Loi'd De Courcy." "I have! I have!" she exclaimed, rousing to something like her old fierceness, "O Regi- nald! you hav been avenged. I have wrung drops of blood! from their hearts, even as they wrung them  from mine. Yes, yes! I have avenged you! They, too, know what it is to lose a child."  "Mother! mother! what have you done?" "I stole their child! their infant daughter! the heiress of!1 the De Courcys, the last of her line! YesI stole hier l" 'She fairly shriek- ered now, withi blazing eyes. "I vowed to bring her up in sin and pollution, and I would have done so, too, if I ha i not been stricken with a living dath. Oh, Reginald! your moth- er avenged yoi! A child for a child! They banished you, and I stole their heir!" "Oh, mother! mother! what is this you have done-where islthat child now?" "YonderIl"Cried the gipsy, with a sort of fierce, passioniate cry, pointing one shaking finger toward the terrified Erminie; t' there she stands; ErminiP Seyton, the heiress of the Earl and Countess He Courey. The daughter of an iarl has toiled ilike a menial for your mother, Reginald, all her life. There she stands, the lost daughter and heiress of Lord De Courcy!" I Au awful silence fell for a moment on all, broken first by lthe impetuous Ranty Lawless. "Lord and Iady De Courcy! why, they are here in America,-in Baltimore, now. Good heav- ens I can our Erminie be anything to them? Oh, I knew she was; I saw the likeness the very first moment we met." "' Who says Lord and Lady De Courcy are here?" cried the smuggler, half raising himself in his excitement. "I do!" said Rnnty, stepping forward," "they oSame out in our ship, and I was with them as far as WaShington city. Last night, I learned  that they had arrived at Baltimore, where a friend of Lady De Courcy's, an Englishmani, is residing." All he had heard, all that had passed before, nothing had affected him like that. His chest  rose and fell with his loud, hard, labored breath-  ing, and his face, white before, was livid now as that of the dead.  ", So near I so near! Can it be that I Will see  her once more?  And her child here, too;  where is she  X must see her 1"    Ray, who had listened like one transfixed to his grandmother's revelations, made a motion to Erminie to approach. Unable to compre- bhend or realize what shle had heard, she came over and sank down on her knees beside him. He took her hand in his, and pushed back the pale, golden hair off her brow, and gazed long and earnestly in her pale but wondrously love- ly young face. "Her flither's eyes, and hair, and features ; her mother's form and expression; the noble trow and regal bearing of her father's race spiritual- ized and softened. Yes, a true De Courcy, and yet like her mother, too. Ray, come here." He went over and took his place beside Er- minie. "Do you know she is your sister, your moth- er's child?" asked the wounded man. ," I know it now; I did not before," was the awe-struck answer. "Yoa have heard she is in Baltimore." "I have." "Then go there, immediately; ride as you never did before in yo'nr life, and tell them all,: Bring her here; I would see her again before I die." Ray started to his feet. "Tell her who you are, yourself-her son ; it will be bette: so. When they learn their long- lost daughter is here, they will need no incentive to make them haste. One act of justice must I be rendered before [ die." "Let me accompany you," said Ranty, as Ray started from the house. "I know exactly wlhere to find them. Saints and angels, where will the revelations of this night end?" There was no reply from Ray; he could make none; his brains were whirling as if mad. He sprang on his horse, Ranty followed, and in an- otherinstant they were flying on like the wind toward Judestown. CHAPTER XXXVIII. "ADY MAUDE. "-With wild surprise As if to marble struck, devoid of sense, A moment motionless she stood." -TTHoMsoN. In an elegantly-furnished room, in a most el- egant private mansion, a lady, still young and exceedingly beautiful, sat with her head leaning on her hand, her eyes fixed thoughtfully and somewhat sadly on the floor. A little paler the noble brow, and a little graver and sweeter the lovely face, and a little more passive and less proud the soft, dark eyes; but in all else Maude, Countess De Courcy, was unchanged. The rich black hair still fell in fleecy, silken ringlets round the sweet, moonlit face; the tender smile was as bright and beautiful, and the graceful form as superb and faultless as ever. There was a dreamy, far-off look in her dark, beautiful eyes, as she watched the setting sun -a-look that seemed to say her thoughts were   wandering in the far-off regions of the shadowy paist. The lady was not alone. Half-buried in the downy depths 'oe a velvet-cushion,d lounge reclined a proud, haughty, somewhat supercili- ous-looking young lady, most magnificently dressed. She was handsome, too-'very hand- some-despite her tossy, coisequential air; but Lady Rita, oily daughter an I heiress of Lord De Courcy, might be pardoned for feeling her- self sonmebody above the common. Her form was slight and girlish, but perfect in all its proportions, and displayed to the best advan- tage by her elegant rol e; her complexion was dark as a Spaniard's, but the large, black eyes and shining black hair, of purplish lustre, were magnificent. Diamond pendants flashed and glittered in her small ears, glaring through the shadowy masses of rich, jetty hair whenever she moved, like sparks of fire In one hand she held a richly.-inlaid fan, and with the other she lan- guidly patted a beautiful little Blenheim spaniel  that crouched at her feet and watched her with his soft, tender, brown eyes. "Mamma," said the young lady, looking up, after .a pause.   I The countess gave a slight start, like one sud- i denly awakened from a reverie, drew a deep brea Iih, and turned round. "Well, my dear," she said. "What'was that papa and Mr. Leicester Were  saying this morning about smugglers, or out- laws, or some other sort of horrors that were  near here? "O, Mr. Leicester was only telling your  Papa that there were some- of these people  idden down in a country town, but a consider- e able distance from this. It seems they forcibly abducted a young-lAdy, not long since, quite a  celebrated beauty, too, and most respectable."  "Dear me! what a dreadful place this must h be, where such things are permitted," said the  young lady, shrugging her shoulders; -you don't think there is any danger of their attack- ing us, 'mamma?' "No, I think not," said Lady Maude, smiling; u "you need not alarm yourself, my dear; those e desperate people are a long way off, and are probably arrested before this. You ineed not li alarm yourself in the least."  There was a tap at the door at this moment, and the next, a servant entered to announce: "Gentlemen down stairs, wishing to seeLady yo De Courcy."             e L "Did they send up their names?" said the he lady. "No, my lady. One of thm said he wanted yo to see you on most important business, but he did not send his name.  "On important business? I Who can it be?" of said Lady Maude, somewhat surprised. "Very  well, I wimll'be down directly. 'A Ten minutes after, the drawing-room door ran      doo   ry 'opened, two gentlemen, both young, arose, and returned herbow.  le  But why, after the first glance, does every e trace of color fly from the face of Ladv De i- Courcy? Why do her eyes dilate and dilate as Ithev rest on the dark, handsome face of one of - her visitors? Why does she reel as if struck a it blow, and grasp a chair n ar for support. And d why, standing there, and holding it tightly, - does her eyes still remain riveted to his face, while her breath comes quick nd hard? s  Reader, she sees, standing before her, the - living embodiment of her early girlhood-he s whom she thinks buried far under the wild osea I "Lady De Couey, I believe?' said the young gentleman, his own face somewhat agi etated. His voice, too! Lady Maude, feeling as though she should faint, sank into a chair, and forced herself to say:       '     f "Yes, sir. And yours--" She paused. "Is Raymond Germaine."  Germaine, to---As name I What feeling was it that set her heart beating so wildly, as she gazed on that dark, handsome face and mnanly form?                  Y He seemed moved, too, but in a less degree than the lady. There was no time to lose, and he began, hurriedly: "Madam, excuse my seeming presumption, but may I beg to ask: Were you not married before-before you became the wife of the pres- ent Earl De Courey?" The room seemed swimming around her. Had the sea given up its dead, that Reginald Germaine should thus stand before her? From her white, trembling lips, there dropped an al- most inaudible "Yes!" "And you had a child-a son-by that mar- i riage?" went on Ray, who felt circumlocution, under the present circumstances, would be use- less.    , Another trembling "Yes!" from  the pallid lips. "You were told he died"?        i She bent her head, silent and speechless. "DMadam-Lady De Courcy-they deceived you. That child did not die 1"   White and tottering, she arose and stood on her feet. "1 He did not die. Regina   Germaing told you so for his own ends. That child lived!" Her lip parted, but no sound came forth; - hr eyes, wiFd now, were riveted still to the fae of the speaker. "The cleild lived, grew up, was brought' to Americas, and lives still." "O saints in heaven I What do Ihear? My     son-my child lives still I Heaven of heavens! You wear the' face and form of'Reginald Ger- maine-c-,an it be that you-" "Even so, madams, Countess De Courcy, I am his son and yours 1" Was it his bold, open face, or her mother's heart, that told Lady Maude he spoke the truth? With a mighty cry, she held out her arms, and the next moment he was clasped in a wild embrace. The other Young gentleman seemed suddenly to have found some very absorbing prospect out of the window that completely enchained his attention, and rendered the frequent use of his handkerchief necessary. He did not turn found for nearly fifteei minutes, and then the new-found mother and son were sitting togeth- er on the sofa, with their hands clasped, talking in a low tone, while her eyes never wandered from his face. He was telling her the story 'of hit father, of his escape, of his subsequent life, of their meet- ing, and of his confession and dying'request. ady Maude's face, as she listened, grew so white, and fixed, and rigid that you might have thought it marble, sisave for the horror unspeak- able, the terrible look burning in the great; black eyes. No word fell from her lips; her very heart seemed congealing, petrifying; she sat like one transformed to stone. "And now, my dearest mother," said Ray, "I have anotherrevelation to make to you-one that, I hope, will in some measure atone for the necessary pain the one I have just been making has caused you." She did not speak; she sat as cold and white as marble. "You I ad another child-a daughter?" he began, hesitatingly. "I had; she is lost!" said Lady Maude, in a tone so altered that even Ranty started. "Did shi die?"Ray asked, curiously. "I. do not know; she was stolen, 1 think." "Yes; lshe was stolen. My grandmother, Ketura, whom I have told you of---she stole her,  and brought her here at the same time she  brought me." There was a sort of gasp, and Lady Maude  half-started to her feet. "O my G3odI Tell me-tell me-is she-is l she-'7 "She is alive and well, and knows all." "Thank God-Oh, thank God for this!" she cried, as sLe sank down and hid her face in her  hands.  There wts a long silence. Then Lady Maude,  starting to her feet, cried out, passionately :  "Where is she? - where is she? Take me to her! My precious Erminie! my long-lst i darling! O Raymond, take inme to Erminie!"  "Will yW u go now? Ought not Lord De  Courcy-'e began Ray, hesitatingly, when she i interrupted him with:   "Oh, yes, yes! He must hear all, and come with us, too. Excuse me one moment. I think he must have'come." She passed from the room, but oh, with a face so'different from that she wore when entering!  Then she had fancied herself childless, and now two had been given her, as if from the dead. And Reginald Germaine, too -he whom she thought lost at sea-was living yet, and she was to see him once more. She trembled so, as she thought of him, that she almost sank down as she walked. The two in the padrlor saw a tall, distinguish- ed-looking man pass in through the froit-door-, and the next moment a quick, decided footstep "; the hall, and then a clear, pleasant voice, saying: "Got back, you see, Maude. Why, wat's the matter?" 'Her reply was too low to be heard, but both passed up stairs together. "Lord De Courey," said Ranty, listening. "I thought you said her ladyship knew you?" said Ray. "She did not seem to do so while here." "All your fault," said Ranty. "You didn't give her time to bless herself, before you open- ed your broadside of 'knock-down facts; and af- ter hearing all the astounding and unexpected things you had to tell her, of course it couldn't be expected she could think of a common, every-day mortal like me. Heigho! And so Erminie is a great lady now? I suppose I ought to be glad, Ray, but, if you'll believe it, upon my word and honor, I'm not. Of course, she'll have hundreds of suitors, now; aid even if she loved Ine-which I don't suppose she did --that high and mighty seignior, liher father, wouldn't let her have anything to do with a poor sailor. Ray, I tell you what, ever since I heard it, I have been wishing, in the most diabolical manner, that it might turn out to be a false re- port. It may not sound friendly nor Christian- like to wish it, Ray, but I do wish it-I aish she had not a red cent in the world. I might have some chance, then." Ray, looking earnestly and thoughtfully at the flowers in the carpet, heard scarcely a word of this address. Ranty watched him for a short time, as if waiting for an answer; and then lean- ing back in his chair, began whistling softly, as if keeping up an accompaniment to his thoughts. The moments piassed on. Half an hour elopsed, then an hour-an age it seemed to the impa- tient Ray. In his restlessness, he paced rapidly up and down, with knit brows, casting quick, restle-s glances it the door. It opened at last, and( Lady M;mide, dressed as if for a journey, entered, leaning on her hus- band's arm. Both were very pale; and Lady Maude's eyes looked as if she had been weep- ing. But she was more composed and natural- looking than when she had left the room.   Ray stopped in his walk, and met the eyes of Lord De Courcy.  "Mr. Germaine," he saiJ, holding out his hand, "for your mother's sake, you must look upon me as a father!",  i Ray bent over the hand lhe extended with a look o1 deep gratitude, such as no words could express.    t Lady Mkaude has told mn all," continued his lordship. "And at the requiest of the unhappy man whom you say is dying, we will start with you immediately."  As Ray bowed, Ranty arose, and the earl caught sight of him.  "Mr. Lawless," he exclaimed, in pleased sur- prise, "I did not expect to meet you here. My dear, you remember the gallant preserver, of Rita's life?" - Ranty actually blushed at the epithet, coming as it did fr'om nhe father of Erminie. "Would you wish to see Lady Rita? She is up stairs." "Thank you, my lord. iSome other time I will have that pleasure," answered Ranty. "At present, we have no time tol spare; every min- ute is precious."  Without further parley, tie whole party left the house. A carriage and fast horses were in waiting; and a few oments after they were on their way. During the journey, theie was a chance to explain everything more fully than haj yet been done, and Ray entered willi gly into all partic- ulars. Lord and Lady De Co rcy seemed never tired of asking questions concerning Erminie; and Ray expatiated on her goodness and beauty in a way to satisfy even the inmost exacting. "Being sobeatiful, of co irse she might have had many suitors?" said Lady Maude, somewhat anxiously. "She might have had, my dear mother. She seemed so strongly attaehed to him already that it ;became quite natural t) Ray to call her mother. But she would listen to none of them." "Thank Heaven for that." said Lady Maude, drawing a deep breath of relief. "Then her affections are still her own?" "On that point I am not ir formed. Perhaps," said Ray, glancing at Ranty with a wicked look in his dark eyes. "Mr. Lawli ss can throw a little light on the subject. He ard Erminie are very confidential frienis!"' Poor Ranty reddened to the very roots of his hair inder the imputation, and the look that Lord and Lady De Courcy gave him. :"Never mind, my dear  oy," said Lord De Oourcy, kindly, as lie saw his confusion. "Er- minime herself shall tell us all about it when we  see her." The journey was a very isad and silent one,  despite nil. Tle thoight of him who lay dying checked. their joy at the aplroaching reunion   and the fear that he might be dead hung like a dark pall over the heart of Ray. On arriving at Judestown, they procured a conveyance from Mr. Gudge, aid started at a rapid pace for the Old Barrens Cottage. It- was nearly dark when they reached it, and all around was ominously silent and still. Ray's heart sank, as he pushed open the door and en- tered. The first person he encountered was Pet Law. less, who uttered an exclamation of joy as she beheld him. "O' Petronilla! I is he alive yet?" he asked. "Just alive, and no more. The doctor says he has only a few hours to live."* "Thank Heaven that we find him alive at all," said Ray. Then motioning the others to follow, he pass- ed into the sitting-room. It was tenanted only by the dying nman and his wife, Marguerite. She crouched 'beside him just as Ray had seen her last-just as if she had never risen a second since. The earl and! countess followed, Ranty coming last. Lady Maude trembled like an aspen, and clung to her husband's arrn'for support. "Father!" said Ray, going over, and bend- ing down. He opened his eyes, and looked up, vacantly at first, but with brighter light when he saw who it was. "Back at last!" he exclaimed. "And her- have you seen her?" "She is here beside you. Come, my dearest mother!" He supported the trembling form of Lady Maude to the couch, aid she sank down beside it on her knees, and hid her face in her hands. A light seemed to flash into the wan face, lighting up the sunken eyes of the dying man. He half-raised his hand, as'if to take' hers, and then it fell heavily on the quilt. "Maude! Maude!" he cried out, "can you forgive me before I die?" She looked up, lifted her pale, beautiful face to his, laid her hand on his pallid brow, and softly and sweetly murmured: "Yes, as I hope to Le forgiven. May God forgive you, Reginald, as I do." His strong chest heaved, rose, and fell, as if the spirit within were trying to burst its bonds before its time. "You have heard all. Maude?" "Yes; all-all."' "And you forgive me the great wrong I did you, Maude?", "Freely and fully, from my heart and soul." "And you will acknowledge our son when I am gone? O Maude! I loved you through all. I was unworthy of you; but I loved you as none other ever loved before. Maude, where is he?" "Who? Reginald?" "Your-Lordl Do Courcy. Is he here i"     "Yes. My dear old friend, I am sorry for ths," said the earl, stepping forward. The dying rover held out his hand, and Lord De Couroytook it in his strong clasp. "I am glad yqu have come-I am glad you are her protector through life. Do you reme- ber our last parting. Lord Ernest?" 'Thalt night? Yes." "Alt r that night--that night! What a differ- ent man I might have lived and died but for that ',ark, sorrowful night! What trouble and sor- row that night caused you, too! It turned my pqoor mother's brain, Lord Ernest; and-she tole your child ", "I know it." 'Do you not want to see her?-have you seen her?"  "Not yet. I will see her soon." "Where is my daughter, Raymond?" asked L:dy Maude, looking wistxully round. '" up stairs, with her grandmother, madam," paid Pet, respectfully. "She does not know you are here. Shall I go and tell her?" "Not just yet," said Lord De Courcy, "my learest Jove. Subdue your impatience for a few monoments-remember, you are in the pres- ence of the dying. You haye waited for her all these years-you can afford to wait a few Ooments l,onger, now."  ".ow is my grandmother?" asked Ray in low tone, of Pet.  "The same, as you saw her last-in a sort of dull stupor all the time; neither sees, hears, nor t feels, apparently. They brought her up-stairs this morning, and Erminie ha; been with her since."   i        I "Hlow doe' Erminie bear te news of her  new-found parents?"     I "Very quie ly-with a sort of still, deep joy not to be expressed in words. She says she always knew that sweet, lovely lady with the soft, betutiful yes was something to her, used to come to het in dreams, or something-odd,  ain' it? And lshe's your m6the', too, Ray I I' - deolate it's all the strangest and most romantic I thing I ever heard of!" We, too, have had our troubles," said the w yin mani, making a faint motion toward Mar- guerite. "Perhaps it wis a just retribution of Heaven for what you were made to suffer. We,  too, lost a child; had she lived, even I might  have been a different man to-day. She was lost. and all, that was originally good in my nature went with her. My poor little Rita     re" "What did yousay? Rita!" eclaimed Lad Maude, as she and her husband gave a simul- taneous start. "Yep. Marguerite was her ;Rita we always called her--wh ?" he asked, in surprise.- "She was lost, did you ay? How did she die?" breathlessly demanded Lady Maude. No; she was carried off, perhaps by gipsies she was kidnapped."   for '"How old was she at the time?" About ten years old-why?" for the fir4 )rd time spoke the woman Marguerite, starting up. "Was she dark, with black hair and eyes." oU  "Yes, yes, yes! O MOn Dieu I why?' a-  "Did she wear a cross upon her neck bearing the initials 'M. I. L.'?" wildly broke in Mar- guerite. "A little gold cross with these letters, T'- which was mine wheo I was a girl, and stood at for Marguerite Isabella Landry, my maiden r- name, was round her neck. O madam! in heav. ay en s name, do you lnow anything of my child?" ie  "I do! I do! I found h'er. I broughit her up as my own, and she lives with me now. Just Heaven! how mysterious are thy ways!" ex-. u claimed the awe-struck Lady Maude. There was a wild cry, and the woman, Mar. guerite, fell fainting on the floor. d  Ray bore her away in his arms, and Pet has- tened outto attend her. At the same moment, a change came over the fapp of the gipsy's W son-a dark shadow from an invisible wing-the herald of coming death. Both held their breath. Great throes shook a the strong form before them. and the-death-dew - stood in great drops on his brow. Ladv Maude r wiped them off, pale with awe.   ' r  The mighty death-agony ceased at last, and there came a great calm. He opened his eyes and fixed them, with a look of unspeakable love, on the face bending over him. f"Maude," lie whispered, in a voice so low that it was scarely audible, "say once more Iyou forgive me." She took his cold hand in both hers, and bend- ing down, touched her lips to his pale brow, while hler tears fell fast on his face. The hand she held grew stiff in her clasp; she lifted up her liead, and her heart, for an in- stant, almost ceased to beat. Reginald Ger- maine, the wronged, the guilty, was dead! "May God have mercy on his soul!" fervent- ly exclaimed Lady Maude. "  Amen," sadly and bsolemnly responded her husband. Both arose. At the same moment the door was opened and Ray appeared, holding the pale and agitated Erminhie by the hand. "Your father and mother, Erminuie," he brief- y   said, as he again went out and closed the 7t06r. And in the dread, chilling presence of the dead, the long divided parent and child were re-united at last I CHAPTER XXXIX. Tag DAWN OF A BaxoIGHTER PAYT. Thoug ts that frown upon our mirth Whit smile upon our rorrow.; And'maty dark fears of to-day May be bright hopes to-morrow " That same 'night, witlin that same hour, when her son lay cold and stark in the room below,   below, the fierce, turbulent, passionate spirit of the gipsy-queen passed away. Death above, and deeth below-the cold dread, invisible ipresence pervading the whole house with a chilling awe, Voices were hushed to lowest whispers, footfalls were muffled; the deep, fervent joy of the united held in check by its dread majesty. There was a subdued lustre through the house when morning broke. Pet and Erminie, very pale and very silentt had arrayed mother and son for the grave; and now, side by side, they lay, white, anrd still, nd rigid, in the p)ale, leaden dawn of the mor in. that dawned for them in vain. Stern, and still, and silent, Ray sat by tie bedside, gazing, in tearless grief, on the lifeless forms Ibefore hi n. Near him sat Lord De Courcy, with a look of deep sadness, which not even the joy of m.-etiig Erninile could to- tally efface from his fine features. Kneeling be- side her dead husband, with her fitee hidden in her hands, was the woman Marguerite, swaying back and forward in voiceless grief. Her first cry had been to be restored to her child, but Lady Maude had soothed her and prevailed upon her to wait until they could all return to. the city together. Worn out and fatigued by her rapid journey, Lady Maude lay asleep in  Erminie's little i ed; andI Ermnie sitting beside  her, with her arms clasped round her neck, her beautiful head, with its wreath of gold- . en hair lying on her lreist, was asleep too.  Ranty Lawless had ridden!off to Judestown to I prepare for the funeral, good-naturedly taking  upon himself all the trouble in Order to spare lRa. And lastly, Petronilla, looking as still  an serious as though a laughl had never dim-  pled her elsevry lips, moved on tip-toe about  the house, dressing everythinig in white, arrang-  ing flowers in vases, and itmparting a softened beauty to the grim reality ofjdeath. Early in tlhie day the news spread abroad, and  sympathizing neighbors begai to drop in with  Offers of aid and assistane.  Among them  Came the admiiral, looking u ispeakably doleful and lugrnbrious ;and when Pet, in as few words  as possible, related what had I appened, the dear,  crusty, soft-hearted old beai was so affected that he was obliged to rush from the house and  wipe his stormy old eyes, inseen, under the  lee of Ringhone. which gaunt quadruped regarded  him  with displeased surprise. Then came  Mr Toosypegs aud Miss Prisiilia, whose sharp, o cankerous face hnd grown ten degrees more unyieldingly sour and acid With every passing t year. Poor Mr. Toosypegs was so sincerely  grieved at the death of Mrs. Ketura", that he  took out his bandanna and ielieved his mind,  then and there, by a good, hie rty cry. It was all like a dream to nrminie, a dream bl of mingled sorrow and joy. .er tears fell fast for her whom, deeply as fhe had wronged      her, isternly as' she had ever treated her, she lo   if still loved; but they fell on a mother's breast, and a father's hInd rested on her bowed head. 1, She could scarcely realize or believe all that'had e happened; and she watched the people come i and go, and saw the lifeless forms closed from e view beneath the coffin-leatd, and saw the funer- al-procession pass fronm the house, and felt the chilling sense of desolation that a funeral always e brings. Then this, too, passed; and she saw , the people disperse and go to their homes, and the white shrouding removed from the roms, , and the bright summer sutinshine camo warmly in, , and then all began to be real-a glad,joyous reality at last.  "And now, what next?" said Ray, as they all gathered together in the little parlor of the cottage when all was over. "We must all return to the city, next," said Lord De Courey, " to Rita. You, of course, my dear boy, are one of the family, now." "I thank you, my lor. i, but 1 have marked out my future course for myself. I have a name and a fortune yet to'win." "My dearest Ray, you would not leave me,', said Lady Maude, reproachfully, laying her hand on his arm. He touched his lips to the small, white hand, and said: "I cannot be a dependant on any one's bounty, not even yours, niy dear mother. You would not have me fold my arms ignobly and become a worthless drone in the busy hive of this world. My path is already clear-an up- hill one it may be-but the goal I am at will be reached at last." His eyes rested half unconsciously on Pet, who was gazing very intently out of tie window while lie spoke. Lord De Courey saw the di- rection of his glance, and smiled slightly to himself.   , "But you, at least, will not think of leaving Us so soon," pleaded Lady Maude; "consider lihow short a time since we have mnet, and how long we have been parted. Indeed, I will not hear of parting with you yet." "Oh, pray, Ray, don't go," said Erminoie, gently; - what could we all ever do without you. Do stay, like a dear, good boy." '"You must have a heart of flint if you can resist all these pleadings." said Lord De Courcy, drawing Erminie fondly toward him. "Come, Miss Lawless, will you not aid my little girl, here, in persuading this ungrateful scapegrace of ours from running away?"  "Oh, there is no use in me asking anybody to do anything," said Pet, coloring slightly, yet looking saucy still, , because they never do it; if Minnie-beg pardon,' Lady Erminie-o-an't per- suade him, then there is no use in; my trying," Now, Pet," said Erminie, reproachfuly, and blushing at her new-found title. "Come, my dear boy, consent to otoy with us for some Weeks, 'at least," said Lady Miude, looking up, coaxmgly, inu his handsome fa(e.     "Your ladyship's will is my law," said Ray, a smile breakiig through the grave sadness of his face. "That is right! I when are we to start, my lord?"  "Early to-morrow, if you like. Mrs. Ger- maine," he ssaidd glancing at Marguerite," I know, is impatient to [emnbrace her daughter."?' 4[,  '  I          - 19  "I wish yo0 were coming, too, Pet, said Erminie, going overaud putting her arm around Pet's small wai at. "And why can she not?" said Lady Maude, looking kindly? down in Pet's changing face; "we will be delighted to have her with us. Do come, my dear". "I tliank yoir'ladyship, but I cannot." "Now, Pet, ;why?  You can come if you like," said Erminnie. "Indeed I' can't, Erminie ; I must stay and console Uncle Harry for your loss. The man of war on the mantel-piece will be quite inade- quate to the task, and there he will. be in sack- cloth and ashes' rending hip garments and tear- ing his h ir-i"  "His wig, you meani," broke in Ranty. "Ranty, be still. Ishould like to oblige you, Lady Erminie, i)ut you perceive I can't. It is one of the cardinal virtues consoling the afflict- ed,.and I am tijying to cultivate all the virtues preparatory to, taking the black vail one of these days, andjbecoming a nun." "Not if I cal help it," said Ray, coming over. "Well, but you can't hielp it, you know," said Pet, turning red, but flashing defiance in a way that madT Lady Maude smile, and re- minded Erminie of the Pet of other days; "and now I really must go before it 'gets any later. Erminie I'll come over early to-morrow and see you off so I will not bid you good-bye now. Ranty--' "Oh, never iud Ranty," interposed Ray; "Let me be your escort home for once, PetL. Come, do not refuse me how. I have a great many things to say to you." Pet colored vividly, but she did not refuse, and nodding at good-bye to the rest, they left the cottage together.       t "Can we not prevail upon you at least to ac- company us bajk to the city?" said Lord De Oourcy to Ranty, when they were gone. Ranty hesitated, and glanced at Erminie, who blushed, of course.  "Come, say yes, Mr. Lawless,'? said Lord De Couroy, laying Ais hand on Ranty's shoulder, in his kind; eordiEl manner. "Erminie must not part with all he:' old friends at once." "Besides, yo-i have not seen Rita, you know, Mr. Lawless," al Ided Lady Maude, with her own peculiar winnin , smile; "and she will be ex- ceedingly glad to meetyou once more. You really must conte now."  Still Ranty h sitated, and looked unspeakable things at Ermi ie.    "I see how it is," said the earl. "Mr. Law- less won't consent unless Ermiiiie seconds the invitation. Come, my love, tell him he must come." "He will be very glad to have Ranty with us;" said Erminie, blUshing most becomingly. "Very well, that settles the matter, I hope, my young friend." "My lord, I shall only be too happy to ac- cept your kind invitation!" exclaimed Ranty, all in a glow of delight. "Nothing could give me more pleasure than to meet Lady Rita again."  So it was arranged they should start the fol-' - lowing morning. Pet rode over to see Erminie off, and tears stood in the dancing eyes of the elf as she bade her good-bye. As for Ermisie, she wept audibly as the carriage rolled away, and the home of her childhood was' left far be- hind. She strained her eyes to catch a last glimpse of the pretty little vine-embowered cot- tage on the lonely bank, and watched the blinding top of the White Squall fading away in the distance as if it had been the face of an old friend.' Then came Dismal Hollow, and at the verge of the wood they encountered Mr. Toosy- pegs, on horseback, waiting to bid Ermainie fare- well. "Mr. Toosypegs, I'm so glad to see you," said Erminie, putting her little snow-flake of a hand out of the window to greet him. "How do you do? and how is Miss Priscilla?" "Thanky, Miss Minnie," said Mr. Toosypegs, in a dejected tone. "I ain't well at all. I'm very much obliged to you, and Aunt Priscillep- well, the old gander broke his leg this morn- ing, and she ain't-well, she ain't in as good spirits as she might be. Miss Minuie, you ain't going to be long away, are you?" "That does not depend on me now, Mr. Too- sypegs, said Erniminie, smiling. "You know I have got a father and mother to take care' of me now." "Yes, I know," said Mr. Toosvpegs, mourn- fully; "its goiig to be horrid lonesome when you are gone; I know it is. I wish I had never beei born! I declare to goodness I do! Peo- ple may say what they like, but 1 don't see where's the good of it," said Mr. Toosypegs, with a subdued howl. "Come, Horlander! take things easy," sug- gested Ranty, poking his head out through th opposite window. "Care kill, a cat." "Its all very well to say, ' take things easy', Master Ranty,"' said Mr. Toosypegs, wiping his' eyes with the cuff of his coat-sleeve; but if you were in my place-in love-a-I mean go- ing to part with Miss Minnie, and never see her again, I don't see how you could take it easy either. 'I dare say you mean real well in telling me so, Master Ranty, but I can't do it all Good-bye, Miss Minnie," said poor Mr. Toosy- pegs, sobbing outright. "I1don't expect ever   'to see you again in this -world-;my feelings are in that state tlat I will soon 6e a melancholy corpse. I know very, well I will." "O Mr. Toosypegs, I hope' not; you only think so. Give my love to Miss Priscilla, and tell her I'll send her a new sl4awl froum Balti- more. Good-bye." And with a smile, Erminie fell back, and the carriage drove on, leaving the unhappy 0. C. Toosypegs wiping his eyes, and snuffling, in the middle of the road. Nothing of any importance occurred during the remainder of the journey. The whole party arrived safely in the city, and 'were domesticat- ed with the friend in whose house the earl and countess were staying.   I The duty of informing Rita 6f her new-found parentage devolved upon Lady Maude. In the gentlest and kindest manner possible, she'per- formed her task; and greath was the astonish- ;ment and greater the mortification of the su- percilious little lady on learning who she really was. "Some natural tears she lhed"; but when the countess informed hler she Was still to reside with them as before, and not being completely selfish after all, she consented' at Jast to wipe them, and met 'her mother with quite a decent show of affectin. Poor Marguerite! she clasp. ed the little gilded, glittering butterfly to her breast, and wept over her with t passionate love that touched every heart. There was a percep- tible coldness and jealousy in!the da'nty little lady's greeting of Erminie, whom sLe looked upon as a rival and natural nerny; but the gentleness and sweetness of the new-found heiress were not to be resisted.; and before they all separated for the night, Lady Rita made up her mind that matters were, after all, by no means so bad as she had at first supposed. Ray passed a week with thel family in Balti- more, and then returned to Judastown-on busi- ness, he said, but as more than one of the par- ty shrewdly guessed, to see Re-. He!ound her worthy father at home, and uuoounded was the astonishmeut of that most upright gentleman, upon learning all that had transpired dur- ing his absence., Inwardly he rejoiced at the annihilation of the gang of sm agglers, and fer- vently thaniiked his stars that Ais oWL connec- tion withi them had not been discovered. But another surprise was :ni store for him when Ray' appear d before him and formally so- lioited tie hand of his daughter. :ay Ger- maine, 'th, gipsy{ grandson, and Ray Ger- maine, LadyDe Couroy's son, Were two very dif- ferent personages; and his wo -slhip, tie judge, was graciously pleased to lve a prom t assent. The first -would have be , in no ve-y choice terms, shown the door; the latter was taken by the hand and cordially told, after the manner of fathers in the play, to "take her an,' be hap- py, which Pet assured kim he woul I5nd some difficulty in being, ones she wan his wi'e.  And so our Pet was engaged at last; and Ray   returned to Baltimore to inform his friends ot his success andu make arrangements for their marriage, which the judge, who thought it would be something added to his already overwhelm- ing dignity to be fither-in-law of the son of a peeress, desired might take'place as soon as possible. Erminie clapped her hands with delight when she heard of it, and Lady Maude, whose heart the wild elf had taken by storm, expressed her heartfelt pleasure. "And you must return with us to England as soon as you are married," said Lord De Courcy, to the lridegroom-elect. "And we will all live together. Oh, it will be so nice to be near Pet!" said Erminie, delight- edly. Ray laughed, and shook his head. "We may accompany you to England, as both' Pet and I desire, to visit it, but our future home must be here. "Why not in England as well as here?" ask- ed his lordship. "Oh, well, for many reasons. One is, Pet- ronilla would never consent; another is, t-at I am too much attached, to this land of my adop- tion to wish to leave it for any other; and thirdly and lastly, I have already attained somen slight degree of tfame in my profession here, and I do not wish to lose it now by going to another land." "But, my dearest boy, -I do not like the idea of being so far separated from you," said Lady Maude, anxiously. "Oh, to cross the Atlantic is a mere pleasure, trip now, my dear mother," laughed aRay; " so we will meet at intervals, after all, As I in- tend to be a great man one of these days -" "You can be that, easily, by growing fat," interrupte d Rinty. "You can't be reached now with 'qything less than a ten-foot pole; and if you on grow stout with years, I'll back you against any man in the community for great- ness. You'll make Daniel Lambert himself look to his laurels." "By the way, Erminie, I have a message for you, from your old admirer, Mr. Toosypegs," said Ray. "lie says he can't bear the idea of letting you go withoxt seeing you again; so he  is coming here, and the admiral with him." "Miss Priscilla ought to' come, too, and make the pirty complete," said Ranty. "I wonder she is so imprudent as to let that innocent youth journey so far alone. There is no telling what may happen to him in a depraved place like this."' "I am sure I shall be glad to see Mr. Toosy. pegs agaiin, and the dear old admiral. - Oh, I do love him!" exclaimed Erminie. "I wish I could get you to say that about his nephew," said Ranty, with an appealing look. Lord De Oourcy smiled encouragingly on the     youth as, together with Ladf Maude, he left the CHAPTER JoLI CiW'c LY MATRIMONIAL. "'There is a love which, born In early days, lives on through silent years." :"Love is life's end."-=Spxmsgs. Erninie,-Lady Erminie now-sait in an ele- ganitly-fnrhished library, pri lling a costly bou- quet wantouly to pieces, ant. looking excessive- ly lovely ii her dress of pale-blue silk and white ace.   I Pacing ip and down the room, as if for a wager, was Master- Ranity L wless, with a look as nearly alPpoaching the intensely gloomy as was possiile for his handsome, happy face to wear.  [     "Why, RIanty, what in the world is the mat- ter with y'ou this morning " said Erminie, at last, openiig her sweet-blue eyes very wide in innocent wonder.  "Lady Erminie, Im going away, this very ye morning; and what's more, 'm never going to come back! I'll be swung tO the yard-arm if I do!" was, the unexpected answer, delivered with a savage, jerking abruptness that made Erminie drop her flowers and halft' rise from her seat in consterination. "Why. 'Ranty- wh  y, Ranny! How can you talk so? What has happened 1 What is the matter? Are you going crazy?" "What's happened  Everything's happen- ed, everythings the matter, and I am going crazy, if it's any consolation, to you to learn it. Yes, you may look surprised, Lady Erminhie Germaine, or De Courcy, or whatever your name may be, but you are tl e cause of it all;  andyou know it, too, for all you sit up there looking ns innocent and unconscious as it is possible for any young woman to look. Never mind, though; I don't care! Just go on, Lady Erminie! You'll find what . nice young man you've lost, when it's too hte" 'said Ranty,  striding up and down, and looking ferociously at poor Erminie.             y "O Ranty! how can you go on so?' What have I done?" said Erminie, twisting her fingers, I and looking up with shi ing, tearful eyes, look- c ing so p)retty and'innoce t in her distress that I a. anty s better angel pro ptecr him to go over v and caress away her tears on the spot. 'But Ranty was angry, and didi t do anything i of the kind. On the contrary, he grew twice as  fierce as before, and strole up and down twice as rapidly, bursting out with:         i "What have you done? There's aquestion! di What haven t you done, I want to know? You b knew very well I loved you. aid paid attention i to you since you were the si'eofa well-grown  doughnut, and when you hadn't a cent to bless I yourself with. You know I did, Lady Er- minie, and you needn't deny it. Well, your   father and mother turns up, and you find yourself a fine lady, and after that you grow stiff and dignified, and keep me at a distanee, as Paddy did the moon, and flirt with every be- scented, behair-oiled jickanapes that squirms, and bows, and simpers, and makes --1fos of themselves, and talk all sortpe of soft nonsense to you! You know you do, LadyErminie, and e- I repeat it, you needn't deny it! Here wAs last U- night, at that concert, or soiree, or tea-party, or whatever it was, didn't you let that contempt. e ble fool, the Honorable Augustus Ahringfeldt make the strongest sort of lyve to you the whole a blessed evening. Honorable, indeed! A pret- k ty honorabl,., lie is, all hair and conceit, like a as scented orang-outang!" sneeiaed Rnty, ele- vating his Roman nose to the loftiest-angle of scorn. "Indeed-indeed, Rnnty, I couldn't hIelp it! it He talked to me, and I had to answer him, and a you never came near me all the time," said Ermiiie, with tears of distress in her gentle y- -blue eyes. a  "No; the thumb-serews of the Holy Office I woldn.'t have got a word out of me!" said anity, fiercely. "Do you think I was going to e thrust myself forward where I wasn't wanted? No, Lady Erminie De Courey; thouglh, you may be above me in rank and wealth, I can have as much pride as you ean yet; and if you think e fit to cut my acquaintance, you are perfectly welcome to do it. I am going away this after- noon, and I am not likely to trouble you any ' more; but first I'll punch the head of that sweet seraph, the HoniorableAugustius--hanged if I don't! Lady-Ermniinie, good-Boe! I'm off for a voyage to Constantinople; and if you hear that the sultan has had me bow-strung, or bas- tinadoed, or pitched into the Bosplorus, or that I have committed suicide, or anything, I hope you'll drop a tear to the memory of the little nay in roundabout-jackets who used to go sail- ing and making love with you at old Judea- Here Ranty dropped lIisvoice to the deeply- pathetic, and held out his hand mournfully to Erninie. But that young lady's hands were upI before her face, and she seemed in a fair way of complying with his request to drop a tear to his memory; for she was sobbing away con- vulsieely. d"There niow! I've went '  e ad t you a cry iL  'll exclaimed, Ranty, e toeo rathr howl, of mingledremorse and    distraction. That's always the way I go and put njy foot in whatever I go to do T I'm a brute! a croco- dile! a sea-serpent! a monster! an unmitigated bear! and I deserve i sound flogging for speak- ing to you as I did. Erminie 1'dear Eriinie I dearest Ermnie. forgive me, like a good girl! IL was -.11 'wing ti that hairy-iaced fool]AhMiing- M  dt-  swear it waa I I was jealous of h irT: madly jealousi the effeminate little cream-can.   dy puppy! Dear Erminie, forgive me! Dear- est Erminie, look up and say I amin forgiven, or I will go to the nearest apothecary's, and p)ut an end to my miserable existence with a gallon or two of prussie acid. Dear, dearest, darling Erminie! only say you forgive me!" pleaded Ranty, kneeling before her, and gently with- drawing her hands from before her face. Erriinie looked up imploringly through her tears.             h "O Ranty! how can you say such dreadful things? Ohi, you frighten me to death I Prom- ise me you will not kill yourself; it is so wick- ed, you know?" "Besides being disagreeable to be set on by a coroner and a dozen asses of jurymen. Well, I won't, if you will promise me one thing." "O Ranty! I I will promise anything, if you will not do it."  "Will you, though? O Erminie! you're a nice young woman! Well, want you to be my dear, little, blue-eyed wife. Now, then, say yes."  But Ermniinie, with a bright blush and a little, surp rised scream, threw up her hand3 and cov- ered her face.  "Now, Erminie, that's no answer at all," said Ranty, taking down the hands. "IYou don't know what a capital husband I'll make. You can't begin,i to havy the remotest ide4 of it, you know? Come, Erminie, say yes-there's a good girl." "O Ranty!" "Yes, I know; girls always look flustered in cases like this; but, somehow, they manage to say yes, after all. Now, Erminie, if you don't say yes, I'll go right straight off for the prus- sic acid-mind that!"   .!" "Well, yes, then," said Erminie, blushing, and laughing, and hiding her face on his shoulder. "Gloria in excelsis! alleluia I iturrah! 0 Erminie I my own little darling! you have made me the happiest man from here to the antipodes! O Erminie! I knew yor would, all along! I always thoughtyou gad too much good sense to reject me for a pup-.y like the Honorable Augustus!" exclaimed Planty, in a rapture. "O Erminie! I'll ive you leave to cowhide me within an inch of my life if I ever give you a cross look or word again I O Er- minie-"  The sudden opening of the library-door cut short the interminable stringI of inte-jections in which Ranty would have indulged, and the next' moment, Lord De Courcy sBood looking with grave surprise on the two lovers. ] "Ah! beg your pardon," He said, blandly, as Ranty sprang to his feet. 'll was not aware there was any one here. Ex use m4 fqr inter- rupting you." And with a bw and an 'almost imperceptible smile, he, was t rning uway, when  Ranty stepped forward, and said: . "Hold on, my lord. There is a little matter    I to be arranged here, which may as well be done now as any other time. I love your daughter, and have told her so, and your daughter loves me, and has told me so; and all we wanlt is your lordship's consent to our union. I may not be quite her equal in wealth, and rank, and all th t sort of thing, in your eyes; but as a free-born American citizen, and an in- ; dependent ' sovereign' in my own right, nud possessing a strong arm, a stout heart, and a clear conscience, I feel myself as .good as the best lord, duke, or Sir Harry, in all Great Brit. ain; and so, my lord, if you will give me your daughter, I will try to prove myself worthy of the gift." This plain, straightforward speech, delivered with head erect, shoulders thrown back, and Master Ranty drawn up to the full extent of his- six feet odd inches, evidently did not displease the earl. ' He turned to Erminie, whose blush; ing face was hid again, and said, with a smile: "And what says my little girl? Has she au- thorized her old friend to say all this?" "Yes, father," whispered Erminie, throwing her arms around his neck. "Well, then, I suppose I shall have to con- sent," said the earl, rising. "Right, my boy," he said, slappiing Ranty heartily on the shoul- der; "you are as good ns any man living, and I like your bold,.independenit spirit. And now, as I am de trop here, I shall go and tell her lahi. dyship that she is about to lose her, new-found daughter again," said the earl, as he left the room. And for the next hour, Ranty and Erminie were just as perfectly happy as it is possible for any two denizens of this rather unhappy world to be. It was arranged that the marriage of Ranty and Erminie should take place on the same day as that of Ray and Pet, and that the whole par- ty should sail for England together. And three days after, came our whole party from Judestown in a body, conSisting of the judge, pompous and important,',but inwardly wincing a little at the thought of meeting Er- minie; Ray, handsome, and happy, and quite unlike his usual haughty self; Pet, bright, de- fiant, saucy, and sparklinag as ever; the admi, ral, in a high state of beattude and a new frock. coat with eye-dazzling brkass buttons; Mr. Too- sypegs, arrayed in a complete new suit to do honor to the occasion, and looking mildly mel- ancholy; and lest, but by no means least, Mis Priscilla, as stiff, grim, sour, rigid, and upright as a church-steeple... Erminie flew down to meet them, and rushed into the arms of Pet, *ho favored her with a crushing hug; and then site kissed' Miss PriA eiaIn, who gingerly presented her wrinkled chelt for that operation; and thip she shook haffnd *ith Mr. Toosypegs, who rereasee a grosacr despair as she did so; and then she ifini'dt     her greetings by throwing her arms around the admiral's neck, and kissing him, too. "Stand from -under 1" roared the admiral with a tremendous burst of laughter. "So you're going to get spliced to, Ranty, Snow- flake? Ho, ho, ho! Who'd a thought it? Lord! how pretty you are, aziyway!  And how's your father and that nice-looking woman your mother? I hope she's pretty jolly,' said the admiral, politely. Erminie laughed, and replied that she was as jolly as could be expected. "And so you're going to England, Miss Min- nie, and never going to come back?" said Mr. Toosypegs, nournfully. "I'm real sorry--I'm dreadfully sorry, Miss Minnie. I do assure you I am. It's awlully lonesome, now, at the cot- tage. I can't bear to go near it at all, it recalls the past so much. Miss Minnie, I don't know what I shall ever do when vou're, gone, at all- I just don't!" "Horliander, hold your ton'gue'!" snarled Miss Priscilla. ' And her' dutiful nlephlew shut imp like a jack-knife. ' You're foreverlastin' a thkin'; and a talkin' nonsense at. that. Miss Minnie, I want to take hoff my things, which is hiriconve- nient to wear in the 'ouse, besides wanting to be folded up and put away, to keep them from spilin'."  Erminie smilingly rang the bell, and ordered the servant to show Miss Priscilla to her room; and, at the same moment, Lady Rita, impelled  perhaps by curiosity, as much as anything else, to see those "rustics," as she called them, swept majestically in, glittering in silk, and lace, and jewels, until she lairly dazzled the eyes. Ermirie rose, and presented her as tier " sister, i Lady Rita". ' Her little lady ship curled her fas- 1 tidious lip[ slightly, made a profoundly formal I courtesy, and gracefully and superciliously sanik  into the downy depths on a lounge, and thought  inwardly lwhat an "absurd set of the lowest people mnamma was gathering about her!"  c But from the moment Mr. Toosypegs set eyes c on the bright little meteor, he was done for! a Pet was forgotten; so was Erminie. Both, in e his eyes, were eclipsed by this golden-winged, rainbow-tinted, little, sparkling vision. Poor s Mr. Toosypegs, for the third time, was deeply v and hopelessly in love! Three days after, the double-marriage took lace riv tely, by the desire of all parties. u None but tl e friends of the brides were present; and immediately after the ceremony the farewells d were spoke , and the bridal cortege drove down i to the steamer that was to convey them to the a Old World. Straining their eyes to catch a last glance of b the shore tiey were leaving, our bridal-party?T stood on the steamer's deck, Etminie leaning on Bl her husband's arm, and Pet leaning on hlers, b both with eyes fullr of tears.- Near them stood u Lady Maude and Lord De Courey, both think-    ie ing of him who slept, "after life's fitful fever", in his lonely hill-side grave. There, too, was 1, Marguerite, calmer and less despairing-looking o now, though her wild, dark eyes were deeply v- mournful still. By her side was her dainty, ? tossy, brightly-dressed little daughter, inwardly d thanking her stars to get home once more. And n thus they all stand before you now, dear reader, d receding far down in the blue horizon. -One more glimpse, and you will see them no more. s  At the White Squall still lives Admiral Harry Havenful, who sits in his parlor, gazing on the - pink-and-straw-colored man-of-war, and smokes r. his pipe placidly, as lie walks down the serene I pathway leading to old age. On fine days Mr.  i Toosypegs always comes to, see him. and there - dilates for hours on the manifold beauties and 3 attractions of Lady Rita, to whom lie intends to v be faithful as long as he lives. Mr. Toosypegs never will get married. lie says he intends consecraCing his life to the memory oftlhe spark- ling little comet' that once flashed across his sky, and then disappeared forever.' Mr 0. 0. Toosypegs' anguish and despair have subsided i now to a calm, serene melancholy, seldom re- lieved by a smile, but by no means distressing to witness. Heand the"admiral continue to do good in their own simple, unobtrusive way, and find their chief delight in reading the letters they sometimes receive from Eriminie and Pet. Ju'dge Lawless lives in solitary grandeur at 'Heath Hill, tlje "Grand Seignmeur" of Judes- town still. Miss Priscilla resides in gloomy state (day, which castigations hie bears with edifying meeklness. Reader, to our friendls in Judes- town, you lhave bidden an eternal farewell. Ray Germaine hias risen to rank and wealth in his profession, and his handsome wife is the leader of the ton in the city where she resides, and ex- cites in turn the wonder and admiration and envy of every one who knows her. Marriage has sub- dued her wildness a little, bnt not eradicated it; and our Pet is the happiest little lady in exist. ence. There is a miniature Pet there, too-a saucy little limb already, who promises to be a second edition of wild Pet Lawless, in deeds as well as in looks. Lady Erminie and Mr. Lawless reside in Eng- land; for the Countess De Courcy will not part with her daughter. Little Lady Rita has imarried a Spanish gran- dee-a Don John somebody, and gone to live in her own " castlein Spain". Marguerite has accompanied her to that sunny land. The Earl and Countess De Courey, loved and honored, pass happily through life together. Their later days promise to be as bright with sunshine as their' early ones were dark and trou- bled. Reader, to all these, too, and I fear not unreluetantly, you must bid farewell. [THE END.]     
         
      
   
